GIVENS v. ZERBST.

11

Syllabus.

GIVENS v. ZERBST, WARDEN OF THE UNITED
STATES PENITENTIARY AT ATLANTA, GA.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.
No. 285. Argued October 13, 1920.-Decided January 31, 1921.
1. The authority to convene a general court-martial may be conferred
upon the commander of a military camp by an order of the President
under the 8th Article of War, which provides that "the commanding
officer of any district or of any force or body of troops," may appoint such courts-martial when empowered by the President. P. 18.
2. A general order of the President lodging this power in the commander
of designated military camps is judicially noticed as part of the
law of the land, and the legality of a court-martial established under
it is not affected by omission to refer to it in the order convening
the court-martial. Id.
3. A general court-martial, so convened by a camp commander, has
jurisdiction to try an officer of the rank of captain. P. 19.
4. The judgment of a court-martial is open to collateral attack for
want of jurisdiction, and to sustain such a judgment it must appear
that the facts essential to the. jurisdiction existed when the jurisdiction was exercised. Id.
5. .Where the due convocation of a court-martial with jurisdiction
to try offenses of the class in question is established on the face of
its record, the existence of a particular fact not so shown but acted
upon by the court-martial, and necessary to its jurisdicti(m over
the particular case, may be proven in support of its judgment upon
a collateral attack. P. 20.
6. Held, that evidence was admissible in a habeas corpus proceeding
to prove the military status of the relator at the time of his tial and
conviction, where the record of the court-martial was silent on the
* subject beyond showing that he was charged as a captain in the
army. Id.
7.. Upon an appeal from a judgment in habeas corpus, evidence upon
which the lower court's decision depended must be brougft up in
the record, though it need not be in the form of a bill of exe ptions.
Id.
8. in providing that "no person shall be tried by court-martial for

OC OBER -TERM, 1920.
Argumentr for Appellant.

255 U. S.

murder or rape committed within the geographical limits of the
States of the Union and the District of Columbia in time of peace,"
the 92nd Article of the Articles of War (1916), contemplates a
complete peace, officially proclaimed. P. 21. Kahn v. Anderson,
ante, 1.
9. An erroneous designation of the place for executing a sentence of
imprisonment imposed by a court-martial does not go to the jurisdiction to sentence and does not entitle the accused to his discharge
on habeas corpus; but he should be retained for a new designation.

Id.
262 Fed. Rep'. 702, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. John S. Strahorn,with whom Mr. Robert R. Carman
was on the brief, for appellant:
The authority to appoint general courts-martial is
defined in the 8th Article of War. Camp commanders
are not so authorized. They can only appoint, under
Article 9, special courts-martial, which can not, under
Article 13, try an officer. It was alleged, though not
proven, that appellant was, if anything in the service, a
captain of infantry. On its face, then, the record is
deficient. To give effect to its sentences it must appear
affirmatively and unequivocally that the court was legally
constituted. McClaughry v. Deming, 186 U. S. 49, 63.
If the jurisdiction does not appear on the face of the
proceedings, the presumption of law is that the court has
not jurisdiction. Ex parte Watkins, 3 Pet. 193, 204.
The introduction in evidence in the habeas corpus proceeding of the general order of the War Department did
not cure-the deficiency of the court-martial record. Davis,
Military Law, 96, 139; Dynes v. Hoover, 20 How. 65, 81;
In re Grimley, 137 U. S. 147, 150; Grignon's Lessee- v.
Astor, 2 How. 319; Galpin v. Page, 18 Wall. 350
Neither the petitioner nor the Government can go
outside the court-martial record, since any change in it
would be in the nature of a review of the case.

GIVENS v. ZERBST.
11.

Argument for Appellant.

The general order limited the jurisdiction it conferred
on the commanding officers of camps to appoint general
courts-martial, to cases of "persons subject to military
law who are serving at camps commanded by them and
who do not belong to tactical divisions serving thereat,"
etc. The Government has not attempted to show that
the appellant was even stationed at this camp,.or whether,
as might have been the case, he happened there on the
night of the crime. So far as this record shows, all we
know about him is that he was alleged to be a captain in
the United States Army. This was an essential and fatal
omission.
The right to authorize the appointment is not questioned
because of the manner in which the general order was
issued; the right of the Secretary of War to act for the
President is not denied. The questions here raised are
based on statutory provisions. The right is claimed
under the 8th Article of War. The action was not taken
by the President under his inherent power to appoint
such courts, (Swaim v. United States, 165 U. S.553), but
is claimed, by express language, under this statute. The
President acting under the statute has no power to authorize a camp commander to appoint a general courtmartial. The terms used in Article 8 do not include him,
while Article 9, on the other hand, expressly specifies his
authority-to appoint special courts-martial.
Whether "district'" has or has not a technical meaning,
Congress, by including the term with others such as
"garrison," "fort," and "camp," has shown that it is
namp.Article 9. There is. no proof in
not the same as a
this record-nor is it a fact-that Camp Sevier is a i'permanent military camp." Nor will it suffice to say that
"the troops at the camp are ordinarily under the command
of its commanding officer."
.',No doubt the President intended- to confer the larger
authority, but here the legal constitution of the court

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Appellant.

255 U. S.

depends upon the statute. McClaughry v. Deming, 186
U. S. 49, 65; Swaim v. United States, 165 U. S. 553; Keyes
v. United States, 109 U. S. 336; Ex parte Watkins, supra,
204.
No jurisdiction was shown over the person of the
accused, because it was not proved that he was an Officer.
Hamilton v. MeClaughry, 136 Fed. Rep. 445, 447, 448;
Ex parte Watkins, supra, 204. Even the evidence offered
in the present proceeding fails to show that he was an
officer when the crime was committed. The time of the
commission of the crime, not the date of the trial, determines amenability, vel non, The general finding is not
sufficient.. In re Gimley, 38 Fed. Rep. 84, 85; Grignon's
Lessee v. Astor, 2 How. 319. Until and unless it appear,
affirmatively, that he took the oath of allegiance (or at
least that the court-martial formally found that he was in
the service), he was not, in so far as this case is concerned,
a. soldier, andi if not (shown to be) a soldier, he was not
amenable to military law.
Under the 92nd Article of War the court-martial had
no jurisdiction over the crime because it was committed
in time of peace. See Article 58 (old code), Act of March
3, 1863, 12 Stat. 736; Coleman v. Tennessee, 97 U. S. 509,
513, 514; Davis, Military Law, 456; Dow v. Johnson, 100
U. S. 158, 169; Ex parte Milligan, 4 Wall. 2.
What did Congress mean when it said in Article 92,
that no person subject to military law should be tried by
court-martial for murder committed "in time of peace"?
That, because we might be at war with some enemy three
thousand miles overseas, when all the courts of the State
in which the crime was committed were open, a murder
committed in such State should not be tried, exclusively,
by the courts of that State? Suppose, for example, that
we were technically at war with, say, the Republic of
Andora, with less than two hundred square miles -of
territory, and a total population of six thousand souls;

GIVENS v. ZERBST.
11.

Argument for Appellant.

would all murders committed in the United States by
persons subject to military law be triable by court-martial? If this were so, thousands might be deprived-of a
great common-law privilege, without semblance of necessity. See Coleman v. Tennessee, supra.
There should, indeed, be a terrible necessity confronting us before the great majority of officers in our army
should be permitted to sit in judgment in a case of life or
death. Ex parte Milligan, 4'Wall. 140. "When the
King's courts are opened, it is a time of -peace, in judgment of law." First Parliament, Edw. III; Ex parte
Milligan, 4 Wall. 128; Winthrop, Abridgment Military
Law (1899), 277.
In the Act of 1916, Article 92 evinces the purpose
of Congress to limit the jurisdiction to a time of actual
warfare, insurrection or rebelion,-as theretofore was
the fact by express language. of statute. Since the revision 'of 1874, the United States had become a world
power; our armies were spreading out into "foreign parts,"
(Article 57, old code)-where, as in the United States
during "war, insurrection and rebellion," we had no
civil courts, and it was necessary that some jurisdiction
over these serious crimes follow our armies. Hence the
Article gives unlimited jurisdiction to courts-martial
over these two crimes, except when committed by soldiers
in the United States or in the District of Columbia. Congress, appreciating their seriousness placed them, for the
first time, in a separate Article; and knowing the difficulties
of law and fact involved in their trial, and the antipathy of the American people to any interference by the
military with civil jurisdiction, was reluctant to give to
these inferior courts the right to sit in judgment in these
superior cases, except when and where necessity com-.
pelled. Winthrop, Military Law, 2nd ed., 1032, 1033,
103,8, 1039.
The pleadings do not negative peace.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

The confinement was unlawful, because the place was
not properly designated, the case was not properly referred to the President, and-Could the President act
while in Europe?
The Solicitor General and Mr. R. P. Frierson, for appellee, submitted.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of
the court.
In his return to a writ bf habeas corpus, which was
allowed on the petition of appellant averring that he was
restrained of his liberty in violation of his constitutional
rights, the warden of the penitentiary at Atlanta, asserting the lawfulness of his custody of the petitioner, annexed
as part of his return the following documents:
(1) A copy of General Orders, No. 56, issued by the
President on June 13, 1918, conferring upon the commanders of designated'camps, among them Camp Sevier,
S. C., the authority to convene a general court-martial.
(2) General Court-Martial Orders, No. 139, issued by
the War Department under date of April 29, 1919, announcing that under Special Orders, No.. 172, dated
"October 10, 1918, Headquarters, Camp Sevier, S. C.,"
(issued by the commanding officer of that camp) a general
court-martial had convened at Camp Sevier on October 30,
1918, and before it there was arraigned and tried "CaptainWilliam J. Givens, Infantry, United States Army,"
under the charge of having murdered at or near Camp
Sevier a named private soldier; that at the trial the
accused officer had- pleaded not guilty and, although
acquitted of the charge of murder, had been found guilty
of manslaughter and had been sentenced to dismissal
from the Army and to ten years at hard labor at a place
to be designated by the reviewing authority. The order

GIVENS v. ZERBST.
II.

Opinion of the Court.

further recited the approval of the sentence by the reviewing authority (the commander at Camp Sevier) and a
like approval, with direction that the sentence be executed, made by the President on April 14, 1919, and concluded by announcing the dismissal of the convicted
officer from the Army as of the date of April 30, 1919.
(3) A telegram from the War Department to the
commander at Camp Sevier announcing the approval
of the sentence by the President; the dismissal of the
officer from the Army; that the United States penitentiary
at Atlanta, Ga., was designated as the place of confinement, and directing the said commander to deliver the
officer to that penitentiary.
(4) A letter from the Adjutant General of the Army
of date April 29, 1919, directed to the warden of the
penitentiary at Atlanta, transmitting him a copy of the
telegram sent to the commanding officer at Camp Sevier,
as pre- iously stated, and informing him that in due season
a copy of the official order promulgating the trial, conviction and approval of the sentence would be sent to
him.
Upon a traverse of the return and the pleadings the
case was heard, and in a careful opinion the court; maintaining the sufficiency of the return, discharged the writ
and remanded the petitioner to custody, and as the result
of an appeal the correctness of its action is here for decision.
The grounds relied upon for reversal relate to three
subjects: (1) the alleged illegality of the court, because
of want of power in the officer by whom it was called to
convene it; (2) the failure of the record to show that the
accused was an officer in the Army or was in any way
amenable to trial by court-martial, and the absence of
jurisdiction in the court, in any event, to try a charge
of murder, because by law no person could be tried by
court-martial, for murder committed within the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
-Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

States in time of peace, and there was no averment
negativing a time of peace, and, in fact, peace prevailed
at the time of the trial; (3) the asserted unlawfulness of
the confinement of the petitioner in the penitentiary at
Atlanta, because the record failed to establish that that
place had been designated by the President, the final
reviewing authority.
We come to test these grounds in the order stated. The
court was undoubtedly a general court-martial and was
convened by the commander of Camp Sevier. The power
to convoke it, however, is not to be solely measured by
the authority possessed by a--camp commander, but in
the light of the authority given to the President by the
8th Article of War, to empower "the commanding officer
of any district or of any force or body of troops" to appoint
general courts-martial, and by the exertion of that power
by the President manifested by General Orders, No. 56,
conferring upon the commanding officer at Camp Sevier
the authority to call a general court-martial. True, it is
insisted that the words, "the commanding officer of any
district or of any force or body of troops," are not broad
enough to embrace' the commanding officer at Camp
Sevier; that, in issuing Order No. 56, the President therefore exceeded the power conferred upon him, and hence
that Order No. 56, in so far as it gave the power stated
to camp commanders, was void. But the text of Article 8
so clearly demonstrates the unsoundness of the contention
that we deem it unnecessary to refer further to it. And as
General Orders No. 56 was a part of the law of the land,
which we judicially notice without averment or proof
(Gratiotv. United States, 4 How. 80, 1.17; Jenkins v. Collard, 145 U. S. 546, 560; Caha v. United States, 152 U. S.
211, 221), we think the contention that that law should
not have been enforced because it was not referred to by
the camp commander in exerting the power which he
possessed in virtue of that order is also Without merit.

GIVENS v. ZERBST.
11.

Opinion of the Court.

These conclusions render no longer applicable the
contention that the court-martial was without jurisdic-_
tion because a special court appointed by a camp commander had no jurisdiction to try an officer with the rank of
captain, but they do not dispose of the proposition that
the record failed to show that the accused belonged to the
Army without reference to his rank and was therefore
subject to trial by a military court.
Conceding that the possession by the accused of a
status essential to the exercise by the court-martial of its
power was jurisdictional and therefore may not be held to
have existed merely because of an estoppel, and conceding
further that, except for the form of the charge, the record
failed to establish such status, we are brought to determine, as was the lower court, whether evidence was admissible to show such capacity at the time of the trial
and conviction and thus make clear the precise condition
upon which the court acted.
Undoubtedly courts-martial are tribunals of special
and limited jurisdiction whose judgments, so far as questions relating to their jurisdiction are concerned, are
always open to collateral attack. True, also, is it. that
in consequence of the limited nature of the power of such
courts the right to have exerted their jurisdiction, when
called in question by collateral attack, will be held not to
have existed unless it appears that the grounds which
were necessary to justify the exertion of the assailed authority existed at the time of its exertion and therefore
were or should have been a part of the record.. Wise v,
Withers, 3 Cranch, 331; Ex parte Watkins, 3 Pet. 193,209; Dynes v.-Hoover, 20 How. 65; Runkle v. United States,
122 U. S. 543, 555; McClaughry v. Deming, 186 U. S. 49,
62-63.
The question before us is thus a narrow one, since it
comes only to this: In a case, such as that before us,
where the power to convoke a court-martial is established

20

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

on the face of the record and the authority of the court
to decide the particular subject before it is therefore undoubted, does the right exist, in the event of a collateral
attack upon the judgment rendered, made on the ground
that a particular jurisdictional fact upon which the court,
acted is not shown by the record to have been established,
to meet such attack by proof as to the existence of the
fact which the court treated as adequately present for
the purpose of the power exerted?
Considering that subject in the light stated, we think
the court below was right in admitting, as it did, evidence
to show the existence of a military status in the accused,
since it did not change the court-martial record but simply.
met the collateral attack by showing that at the time of
the trial the basis existed for the exertion by the court
of the authority conferred upon it.
It is true that general expressions will be found in some
of the reported cases to the effect that wherever a fact!
upon which the jurisdiction of a court-martial or .other
court of limited jurisdiction depends is questioned it must
appear in the record that such fact was established. But
these expressions should be limited in accordance with
the ruling which we now make. We so conclude because
the complete right to collaterally assail the existence
of every fact which was essential to the exercise by such
a limited court of its authority, whether appearing on the
face of the record or not, is wholly incompatible with the
conception that, when a collateral attack is made,. the
face of the recor . is conclusive. Indeed, some of the lead-*
ing-cases make clear the incoiigruity:of any other conclusion and serve to indicate that the expressions as to
the face of the record contemplate, not the record assailed
by the collateral attack, but the record established as the
result of the proof heard on such attack.. Galpin v. Page,
*18 Wall. 350; -Runkle v. United States, 122 U. S. 543.
Although there is no bill of exceptions, as the case is

GIVENS v. ZERBST.
11.

Opinion of the Court.

here on appeal the evidence upon which the court below
acted is open for our consideration and would seem to be
in the record, although a compliance with the precipe
of the appellant would have required the clerk to exclude
it. Under these conditions we content ourselves with
saying that, if as a consequence of the action of the appellant the proof is not in the record, the means of examining the conclusion of the court in that respect would be
wanting and we could not disturb the decree appealed
from. If on the other hand the documents in the record,
not referred to by the prmecipe of the appellant, embraced
the proof which the court admitted and upon which it
acted, we are of opinion that they abundantly sustain
the conclusion which the court based upon them and
therefore make clear the existence at the time of the trial
of a military status in the accused officer adequate to
sustain the jurisdiction of the court-martial.
The contention that the court was without jurisdiction
because
the trial occurred in a time of peace and that
"under that
condition Article of War 92 deprived courtsmartial of jurisdiction to try for murder, has been held
to be without merit in Kahn v. Anderson, No. 421, this
day decided, ante, 1, which therefore disposes of that question as presented here. This renders it unnecessary to
consider the Government's insistence that, as the conviction was for manslaughter, the trial was for that crime,
although the charge was murder.
As respects the designation of the penitentiary at
Atlanta as the place for executing the sentence at hard
labor which was imposed, we are of opinion that, if effect
be given to documents which are in the record and to
which the lower court referred, it. would clearly result
that the court rightly held that, under the conditions disclosed, the order for confinement at Atlanta was virtually
the order of the President' and the contention to the
contrary now made is devoid of merit. United States v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.

Syllabus.

255 U. S.

Page, 137 U. S. 673, 678-682; United States v. Fletcher,
148 U.-S. 84, 88-91; Ide v. United States, 150 U. S. 517;
Bishop v. United States, 197 U. S. 334, 341-342. But,
as pointed out by the court below, the mere designation
of the place for carrying out the sentence did not involve
the jurisdiction of the court (Schwab v. Berggren, 143
U. S.442, 451; In re Cross, 146 U. S. 271, 277-278), and
if erroneous would only lead to retaining the accused for
a new designation of place of confinement, and we see
no reason under the condition of the record to reverse the
action of the court below on that subject.
What we have said disposes of every material contention in the case, although we have not expressly noticed
the many suggestions based upon the supposed duty on the
trial, before the court-martial, to negative every possible
condition the existence of which might have prevented
that court from trying the case, among which was the
possibility that the officer under trial might have belonged to a command which did not come within the power
to call a court-martial conferred upon the camp commander by General Orders, No. 56, particularly since the
suggestion now made on that subject seems to have been
an afterthought and not to have been called to the attention of the court below in any way.
Apirmed.

BERGER ET AL. v.- UNITED STATES.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 460.

Argued December 9, 1920.-Decided January 31, 1921.

1. Upon the filing of an affidavit of a party to a case in the District
Court, in conformity with Jud. Code, ยง 21, averring the affiant's
belief that the judge before whom the case is to be tried has a per-

