OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

KENNINGTON ET AL. v. PALMER ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR'THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF MISSISSIPPI.
No. 367. Argued October 19, 20, 1920.-Decided February 28, 1921.

1. Decided, as to the unconstitutionality of part of the Food Control
Act, upon the authority of United States v. Cohen Grocery Co., ante,
81.
2. Equity will enjoin criminal prosecutions threatened under a void
statute, the legal remedy being inadequate.

Reversed.

BILL to enjoin criminal prosecutions against dealers
in wearing apparel under ยง 4 of the Food Control Act.

Mr. Garner Wynn Green, with whom Mr. Marcellus
Green and Mr. Win. H. Watkins were on the briefs, for
appellants.
The Solicitor General, for appellees, in addition to the
points presented in the preceding cases, argued that the
act does not take property without due process of law.
There was no contention that a mere failure to conform

to prices fixed by a fair-price committee can be made the
basis of a criminal prosecution.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of

the court.
The appellants, dealers in wearing apparel'in the city of
Jackson, Mississippi, filed their bill in the court below
against the Attorney General and subordinates charged

by him with administrative duties under ยง 4 of the Lever

KENNINGTON v. PALMER.
100.

Opinion of the Court.

Act to enjoin the enforcement against them of provijons
of that section. Their right to relief was based upon
averments as to the unconstitutionality of the assailed
provisions of the section, not only, In substance, upon
the contentions which we have this day considered and
disposed of in the Cohen Grocery Co. Case, ante, 81, but
upon other grounds as well.
Without passing upon the question of constitutionality,
the court dismissed the bill for the reason that the complainants had an adequate remedy at law, and the correctness of the decree of dismissal is the question now
before us on direct appeal.
As it is no longer open to deny that the averments of
unconstitutionality which were relied upon, if wel"
founded, justified equitable relief under the bill,1 -anc
because the opinion in the Cohen Case has conclusively
settled that they were well founded, -it
follows that the
court below was wrong and its decree must be and it is
reversed and the case remanded for further proceedings
in conformity with this opinion.
Revraed.
MR. JUSTICE' PITNEY and MR. JuSTIcE BRANDEIS

concur in the result.
MR. JUSTICE DAY took no part in the consideration or
decision of this case.
'Wilson V.New, 243 U. S. 332; Adanms v. Tanner, 244 U. 8. 590;
Hammer v. Dagenhart,247 U. S. 251; Hamilton v. Kentucky Di~titleria
Co., 251 U. S. 146; Ruppert v. Caffey, 251 U. S. 264; Ft. Smith & Wistern
R. R. Co. v.l "'6fs,
253 U. S.206.

