SOUTHERN IOWA ELEC. CO. v. CHARITON.

589

Syllabus.

536.

tions it is affirmed for the reasons and upon the grounds
herein stated.

Judgment reversed in. part, affirmed in part, and case
remanded.
and MR. JusTcE BRANDEIS,
because of prior decisions of the court, concur only in the
judgment.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

SOUTHERN IOWA ELECTRIC COMPANY v. CITY
OF CHARITON,. IOWA, ET AL.
IOWA ELECTRIC COMPANY v. CITY OF FAIRFIELD, IOWA, ET AL.
MUSCATINE LIGHTING COMPANY v. CITY OF
MUSCATINE, IOWA, ET AL.
APPEALS FROM TH

DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF IOWA.
Nos. 180, 189, 190. Argued January 26. 28, 1921.-Decided April 11, 1921.

I. In the absence of a contract obligation, the grantee of a franchise
to supply the public with electricity or gas cannot constitutionally
be required by the State or its agencies to observe rates which, in.
effect, are confiscatory of its property. P. 541.
2. The acceptance from a municipality of a franchise to supply the
public with gas or electricity for a term of years at specified maximum,
rates does not bind the grantee with a contractual obligation to.
charge no more if the rates become in effect confiscatory, where
the law of the State (Iowa Code of 1897, §§ 720,, 725) reposes in
the municipality the continuipg power to regulate such rates and,
that the public may be protected from improvident bargains, forbids any abridgment of the power by ordinance, resolution or conotract. P. 542.

26 Fed.- Rep. 929, reversed.,

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

TiESE were suite brought by the appellants to restrain

the appellees from enforcing the maximum rates for electricity and gas, specified in the ordinances granting the
appellants' franchises, upon the ground that the rates had
become unremunerative and confiscatory. The court below dismissed the bills. The facts are given in the opinion.
Mr. Emmet Tinley, with whom Mr. W. . Mitchell, Mr.
J. C. Pryor, Jr., Mr. D. L. Rom8 and Mr. Eduyin D. Mitchell were on the brief, for appellant in No. 180.
Mr. J. W. Kridelbaugh, with whom Mr. H. W. Byers
was on the brief, for appellees in No. 180.
Mr. John A. Reed, with whom Mr. William Chamberlain
and Mr. Ralph Maclean were on the briefs, for appellant
in No. 189.
Mr. Ralph H. Munro, with whom Mr. X. C. Nady was
on the brief, for appellees in No. 189.
Mr. William Chamberlain, with whom Mr. J. R. Lane,
Mr. E. M. Warner, Mr. C. M. Waterman and Mr. Don
Barnes were on the brief, for appellant in No. 190.
No appearance for appellees in No. 190.
MR. CHIEF

JuSTic WITE.delivered the opinion of the

court.
At the time these suits were begun the appellants were
engaged in supplying electricity or gas to the municipal
corporations who are the appellees. This service was
being rendered by virtue of ordinances conferring franchises to use the city streets during 25 years in two of the
cases and 20 years in the other. The ordinances contained
a schedule of maximum rates. After they were in effect
a few years the three suits which are before us were begun
against the cities with the object of preventing the en-

SOUTHERN [OWA ELEC. CO. v. CHARITON.
539.

541

Opinion of the Court.

forement of the maximum rates specified in the ordinances, on the-ground that such rates were so unreasonably
low that their continued enforcement would deprive the
corporations of remuneration for the services by them
being performed and in fact, if enforced, would result in
the confiscation of their property in violation of the due
:process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States. In the three cases the
court -granted a temporary injunction. restraining the
enforcement of the madmum rates and allowed an order
permitting, pending the suits, a higher charge.
The cases were submitted upon the pleadings and
without the taking of testimony upon issues which presented the contention, that the ordinances were contracts
and therefore the maximum rates which they fixed were
susceptible of continued enforcement against the corporations, although their operation would be confiscatory.
In one opinion, applicable to the three cases, the court
stated its reasons for maintaining this view, but directed
attention to the fact that no proof had been offered concerning the confiscatory character of the rates, and pointing out that, as. such subject might become important on
appeal, it would be necessary to restore the cases to the
docket for proof in that regard unless the situation was
remedied by agreement between the parties. Thereupon the pleadings were amended so as to directly present,
separately from the other issues in the case, the right of
the cities to enforce the ordinance rates in conrequence
of the contracts, without reference to whether such rates
were in and of themselves-confiscatory. Upon its opinion
sa to the existence of contracts and the power to make
them as previously. stated, the court entered decrees enforcing the ordinance rates which are now before us for
review because of the constitutional question involved.
Two propositions ;are indisputable: (a) That although
the governmental agencies having authority to deal with

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
-Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

the subject may fix 'and enforce reasonable rates to be
paid'public utility corporations for the services by them
rendered, that power does not include the right to fix
rates which are so low as to be confiscatory of the property of such corporations, Reagan v. Farmers' Loan &
Trust Co., 154 U. S. 362; Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466;
San Diego Land & Town Co. v. Jasper,189 U. S. 439, 442;
Knoxville v. Knoxville Water Co., 212 U. S. 1, 17; Wilcox
v. ConsolidatedGas Co., 212 U. S. 19, 41; Minnesota Rate
Cases, 230 U. S. 352, 434; Cedar Rapids Gas Light Co. v.
Cedar Rapids, 223 U. S. 655; Des Moines Gas Co. v. Des
Moines, 238 U. S. 153; Denver v. Denver Union Water Co.,
246 U. S. 178, 194; and (b) that. where, however, the
public service corporations and the governmental agencies
dealing with them have power to contract as to rates,
and exert that power by fixing by contract rates to govern
during a particular time, the enforcement of such rates
is controlled by the obligation resulting from the contract, and therefore the question of whether such rates
are confiscatory becomes immaterial. Freeport Water
Co. v. Freeport, 180 U. S. 587, 593; Detroit v. Detroit
Citizens' Street. Ry. Co., 184 U. S. 368; Knoxville Water
Co. v. Knoxville, 189 U. S. 434, 437; Cleveland v. Cleveland City Ry. Co., 194 U. S. 517; Home Telephone Co. v.
Los Angeles, 211 U. S. 265, 273; Minneapolis v. Minneapolis Street Ry. Co., 215 U. S. 417; Columbus Railway,
Power & Light Co. v. Columbus, 249 U. S. 399.
It follows that as the rates here involved are conceded
to be confiscatory they cannot be enforced unless they
are-secured by a contract obligation. The existence of a
binding contract as to the rates upon which the lower
court based its conclusion is, therefore, the single issue
upon which the controversy depends. Its solution turns,
first, upon the question of the power of the parties to
contract on the subject, and second, if they had such
power, whether they exercised it.

SOUTHERN iOWA ELEC. CO. v. CHARITON.
539.

543

Opinion of the Court.

As to the first, assuming, for the sake of the argument
only, that the public service corporations had the contractual power, the issue is, Had the municipal corporations under the law of Iowa such authority? Its possession
must have been conferred, if at all, by § 725 of the Iowa
Code of 1897, which deals with that subject. That
statuk, came before the Supreme Court of Iowa for consideration in the very recent case of Town of Woodward
v. Iowa Railway & Light Co., 178 N. W. Rep. 549. That
was a suit by the Town of Woodward to compel the-Light
Company to continue to furnish electric lighting at the
rates fixed by the ordinance conferring upon the company
its franchise to maintain and operate its plant in the
town. The company resisted on the ground that the
rates had become confiscatory and were not enforceable.
Testimony offered by the company to establish the confiscatory character of the rates was objected to by the
town, which asserted that the acceptance by the company
of the ordinance bound it by contract to furnish the
service at the -rates therein prescribed whether or not
they were confiscatory, and that the evidence offered was
therefore immaterial. The evidence was received, sub"ject to the objection, and the court, finding the rates
to be confiscatory, sustained the company's contention
and dismissed the bill. Upon. ppeal by the town, the
Supreme Court, affirming the action of the trial ccuirt,
,said:
"The defendanV's franchise in the town of Woodward
was granted in June, 1912, by ordinance duly enacted by
the city council and duly approved by vote of the electors,
as required by section 720 of the Code. Section 6 of the
ordinance which granted the franchise specified therates
to be charged by the defendant to consumers. The term
of the franchise was 25 years. The essence of the plaintiff's contention is that the enactment of this ordinance
(including the franchise, and the rates and the approval

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

*of the same by the electors), and the practical acceptance
of the same by the utility corporation, constituted a contract binding as such both upon the town and upon the
utility corporation. The defendant resists this contention
and. likewise denies that there is any power conferred by
statute upon the city council to enter into contract on
the-subject of rates. The issue at this point is the controlling one in the case. The question thus at issue is
answered by section 725 of the Code of 1897, which provides as follows:
"'Sec. 725. Regu ,t n of Rates and S&rvice.-They
shall have power to require every individual or private
corporation operating such works or plant, subject to
reasonable rules and regulations, to furnish any person
applying therefor, along the line of its pipes, mains, wires,
-or-other conduits, with gas, water, light or power, and to
supply said city Oi town with water for fire protection,
and with gas, water, light or power for other necessary
public purposes,1 [and to regulate and fix the'-rent or
rates for water, gas and electric light or-power]
and these powers shall not be abridged by ordinance, r-esolution or contract.'
"It will be noted from the foregoing that the legislative
power to fix rates is conferred by this section upon the
city council. The legislative power thus conferred is a
continuing one, and may not be abridged or bartered
away by contract or otherwise. . . . There was a
time in the history of our legislation when theright of
contract as to rates was conferred by statute upon the
city council.

.

.

.

By the revision and codification

of 1897, the right of contract as to rates for utilities of
this character was entirely eliminated, and the legislative
* IThe words in brackets are found in the section, but are

not em-

braced in the provisions quoted by the court, although as shown by the
language of the court as to the rate provision they were clearly taken
into view and applied in construing the statute.

SOUTHERN IOWA ELEC. CO. v. CHARITON.
539.

545

Opinion of the Court.

power to regulate rates was conferred upon the city
council in all cases. The reason for the change of method
is obvious enough. Under the contract method, the
rights of the public were often bartered away, either
ignorantly or corruptly, and utility corporations became
empowered through the contractual obligations to enforce extortionate rates. The net result of the progressive
legislation is found in our present section 725, whereby
it is forbidden to any existing city council to bind the
city to any rate for any future time. -The power of regulating the rate is always in the present city council. It
must be said, therefore, that the rates fixed by section 6
of the ordinance, hereinbefore referred to, were not fixed
by contract."
Indeed, the doctrine thus expounded was but a reiteration of the rule of the Iowa law laid down in previous
cases. City of Tipton v. Tipton Light & Heating Co., 176
Iowa, 224; Iowa Railway & Light Co. v. Jones Auto Co.,
182 Iowa, 982; Town of Williams v. Iowa FallsElectric Co.,
185 Iowa, 493. And again, more recently, in Ottumwa
Railway & Light Co. v. City of Ottumwa, 178 N. W. Rep.
905, the court, referring to the Town of Woodward Case
and to the doctrine therein announced based upon the
significance of § 725 of the Code of 1897, thus restated its
former conclusion on that subject:
"That statute in positive terms forbids any abridgment
of the right to regulate and fix charges of service corporations named in the statute, either by ordinance, resolution,
or contract. No one would now contend, in the teeth of
the statute prohibition, that there can be a valid contract
fixing permanent rates. As to corporations named in
that statute we have held repeatedly that there can be
no contracting that rates fixed for service shall not be
changed. See Tipton v. Light Co., 176 Iowa, 224, 157
N. W. 844; Selkirk v. Gas Co., 176 N. W. 301. And see
San Antonio Co. V. City (D. C.), 257 Fed. 467. To like

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.

Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S

effect is Iowa Co. v. Jones, 182 Iowa, 982, 164 N. W. 780.
And in the last case it is held that the fixing of maximum
rates in a franchise ordinance is therefore not a contract
that such rates may not be changed before the time stated
in such ordinance has lapsed, and that approval by the
electors of rates in the franchise is merely an approval
of the rates fixed by the franchise, as rates temporarily
settled, with the understanding that the same might be
changed either upward or downward."
The total want of power of the municipalities here in
question to contract for rates, which is thus established,
and the state public policy upon which the prohibition
against the existence of such authority rests, absolutely
exclude the existence of the right to enforce, as the result
of the obligation of a contract, the concededly confiscatory
rates which are involved, and therefore conclusively
demonstrate the error committed below in enforcing such
rates upon the theory of the existence of contract. And,
indeed, the necessity for this conclusion becomes doubly
manifest when it is borne in mind that the right here
asserted to contract in derogation of the state law and
-of the rule of public policy announced by the court of last
,resort of the State is urged by municipal corporations
whose every power depend upon the state law. Covington
v. Kentucky, 173 U. S. 231, 241; Worcester v. Worcest
Consolidated Street-Ry. Co., 196 U. S. 539; 548; Braxton
County Court v. West Virginia, 208 U. S. 192; Englewood
v. Denver & South Platte Ry. Co., 248 U. S. 294, 296;
Pawhuska v. Pawhuska Oil & Gas Co., 250 U. S. 394, 399.
Decrees reversed and causes remanded for further procedings in conformity with this opinion.

