OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

THE PESARO. 1
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT..COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 317.

Argued anuary 26, 27, 1921.-Decided February 28, 1921.

1. A decree in-admiralty releasing a vessel finally from arrest, in a suit
in rem, upon the ground of her immunity to the process of the court,
• but not in terms dismissing the libel, is final. P. 217.
2. Whether from the jurisdiction over "all civil cases'of 'admiralty
and maritime jurisdiction," Jud. Code, § 24, cl. 3, there is an implied
exception of trading vessels owned and possessed by foreign powers,
is a jurisdictional question, in the sense ,ofJud. Code, § 238, governing appeals to this court from the District Courts. P. 218.
3.A suggestion that a vessel, arrested in admiralty, is owned and
possessed by .aforeign country and is, therefore, beyond the jurisdiction of the District Court, cannot be entertained if mad,) by the
ambassador of that country directly and not through the official
channelsof our government. Id. Ez parte Muir, 254 U. S. 522.
Reirersed.
THIS was a direct appeal to. review a decree of the
District Court dismissing a libel in rem for want of jurisdiction over the ship. The case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Oscar!R.Houston aind Mr. Harold V. Amberg, with

whom Mr. D. Roger'Englarwas on the brief, for appellants...
Mr. John M. Woolsey for appellee.
MR. JUSTCE VAN D VANTER delivered the opinion of
the court.
The Pesaro an.Italian steamship which carried a ship-.

ment of olive oil from Genoa to New York was sued in rem
The docket title of this case is: Luzzato et al.,
copartners trading
under the firm name of Giovanni Luzzato & Son, v. The Steamship

"Pesaro," etc.-

THE PESARO.
216.

Opinion of the Court.

in admiralty in the District Court to enforce a claim for
damage to that part of her cargo, the libel alleging that she
was a "general ship engaged in the common carriage of
merchandise by water, for hire." The usual process issued
and the ship was arrested. Afterwards, upon a direct suggestion by the Italian Ambassador that the ship was owned
by the Italian Government and at the time of the arrest
was in its possession, and therefore was'not subject to the
court's process, the court vacated the arrest. The libelants objected that a direct suggestion by the Ambassador
was not admissible and that, to be entertained, the suggestion should come through official channels of the United
States; but.the objection was overruled. The libelants
then requested permission to traverse the suggestion and to
make a showing in opposition; but the request was denied,
the court holding that to controvert or question the suggestion was not allowable. The libelants appealed directly
to this court and in that connection the District Court
certified the ground of its decisions as,follows:
"I do certify'that the vessel was released from arrest by
me by a final decree herein, solely because I deemed that
the United States District Court, sitting as a Court of
Admiralty, has no jurisdiction to subject to its process a
steamship, which is by the suggestion of the said Italian
Ambassador filed in this Court represented to be the public property and in the possession of the Kingdom of
Italy."
Our authority to entertain the appeal is challenged upon
two grounds. One is that the decree is not. Fnal, because
it does not dismiss the libel. That it does not formally .do
so is true, but this is not decisive. The suit is in rem-is
against the ship. The decree holds for iaught .the process
under which the ship was arrested, declares she is not subject to any such process and directs her release-in other
words, dismisses her without day. Thus the decree ends
the suit as effectually as if it formally dismissed the libel.

. OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

Obviously, therefore, it is final. That it was intended to be
so is shown by the court's certificate.
The other ground is that the question raised and decided
was not a jurisdictional one in the sense of the statute, Jud.
Code, § 238, providing for an appeal or writ of error from a
District Court directly to this court "in any case in which
the jurisdiction of the court is in issue." But we think it
was such a 'question, because it directly concerned the
power of the District Court, as defined by the laws of the
United States, to entertain and determine the suit. The
Steamship Jefferson, 215 U. S. 130, 137-138; The Ira M.
Hedges, 218 U. S. 264, 270; United States v. Congress Con8truction Co., 222 U. 5. 199. By the Judicial Code, § 24,
cl. 3, the District Courts are invested with original jurisdiction. of "all civil causes of admiralty and maritime
jurisdiction"; and this is a suit of that character. Whether
Congress intended this statute should include suits against
ships such as the Pesaro is represented to be in the Ambassador's suggestion, when they are within the waters of
the United States, is as yet an open question. The statute
contains no express exception of them; but it may be that
they are impliedly excepted. The Exchange, 7 Cranch, 116,
136, 146. If so, the implication is a part of the statute.
United States v. Babbit, 1 Blick, 55, 61; South Carolinav.
United States, 199 U. S.437, 451. Thus, the answer to the
question propounded to the District Court involved a
construction of the statute defining its jurisdiction in admiralty.
We cope then to consider whether the court erred in
sustaining the Ambassador's suggestion that the ship was
not subject to its process. Apart from that suggestion,
there was nothing pointing to an absence of jurisdiction.
On the contrary, what was said in the libel pointed plainly
to its presence. The suggestion was made directly to the
court' and not through any official channel of the United
States. True, it was accompanied by a certificate of the

THE CARLO POMA.
216.

Syllabus.

Secretary of State stating that the Ambassador was the duly
accredited diplomatic representative of Italy, but while
that established his diplomatic status it gave no sanction
to the suggestion. The terms and form of the suggestion show that the Ambassador did not intend thereby
t6 put himself or the Italian Government in the attitude
of a suitor, but only to present a respectful suggestion and
invite the court to give effect to it. He called it a "suggestion "and we think it was nothing more. In these circumstances the libelants' objection that, to be entertained, the
suggestion should come through official channels of the
United States was well taken. Ex parte Muir, 254 U. S.
522. And see United States v. Lee, 106 U. S. 196, 209.
With the suggestion eliminated, as it sh 9 uld have been,
there obviously was no basis for holding that the ship was
not subject to-the court's process. What the decree should
have been if the matters affirmed in the suggestion had
been brought to the court's attention and established in
an appropriate way we have no occasion to consider now.
An opportunity so to present and establish them should
be accorded when the case goes back, as it must.
Decree reversed.

THE CARLO POMA. 1
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 167.

Argued January 26,27, 1921.-Decided February 28, 1921.

An appeal does not lie to the Circuit Court of Appeals from a final
decree of the District Court releasing a vessel upon the ground that
its ownership and possession by a foreign power place it beyond the
docket title of this case is: Cavallaro v. Steamship " Carlo
Poma," Her Engines, etc.; Kinqdom of Italy, Claimant.
IThe

