PAYNE v. NEW MEXICO.
356.

Syllabus.

may be repudiated in another forum as to a part of the
same class.
If the federal courts are to have the jurisdiction in class
suits to which they are obviously entitled, the decree when
rendered must bind all of the class properly represented.
The parties and the subject-matter are within the court's
jurisdiction. It is impossible to name all'of the class as
parties, where, as here, its membership is too numerous to
bring into court. The subject-matter included the control
and disposition of the funds of a beneficial organization
and was properly cognizable in a court of equity. The
parties bringing the suit truly represented the interested
class. If the decree is to be effective and conflicting judgments are to be avoided all of the class must be concluded
by the decree.
As to the other question herein involved, holding, as we
do, that the membership of Class A were concluded by the
decree of the District Court, an ancillary bill may be prosecuted from the same court to protect the rights secured to
all in the class by the decree rendered. Looney v. Eastern
Texas R. R. Co., 247 U. S. 214, and cases cited.
It follows that the decree of the District Court, dismissing the ancillary bill for want of jurisdiction, must be
Reversed.

PAYNE, SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR, ET AL.
v. STATE OF NEW MEXICO.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. .128.

Argued October 6, 1920.-Decided March 7, 1921.

1. Under the acts of Congress entitling the State of New Mexico to
waive its rights to any place section which has passed to it as school
land and subsequently has been included within a ptiblio reservation

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

of the United States, and to select other public land of equal acreage
in lieu, the State, having made such waiver and selection in due
form, complying with all conditions precedent, acquires a vested
right to the selected land which cannot lawfully be canceled or
disregarded by the Land Department upon the ground that the
base land has since been eliminated from the reservation. P. 370.
2. The provision making such a selection "subject to the approval
of the Secretary of the Interior," does not postpone the vesting of the
right of the State until the Secretary approves, but empowers and
requires him to determine judicially the lawfulness of the-selection
as of the time when it was made. P. 371.
3. Where the Secretary of the Interior and the Commissioner of the
General Land Office refused approval of such a lieu selection because, after it was made, the base tract was eliminated from the
reservation, held, that the proper injunctive relief, in the courts
of the District of Columbia, was to direct that the selection be disposed of in due course without regard to such elimination, rather
than to forbid its cancelation or annulment. P. 373;
49 App. D. C. 80; 258 Fed. Rep. 980, affirmed.
THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Assis&ant Attorney General Nebeker, with whom Mr.
H. L. Underwood, Special Assistant to the Attorney Gen-.

eral, was on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. PatrickH. Loughran for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the
the court.

opinion of

This is a suit by the State of New Mexico to enjoin the
Secretary of the Interior and the Commissioner of the
General Land Office from canceling or annulling a lieu land
selection of that State under a mistaken conception of

their power and duty. A hearing on the bill-and answer
resulted in a decree for the State, which the Court of Appeals affirmed, 49 App. D. C. 80; 258 Fed. Rep. 980,

and the defendants appealed to this court.

PAYNE v. NEW MEXICO.
367.

.,369

Opinion of the Court.

There was no controversy or difference in the land department about any question of fact, but only in respect
of the time as of which the officers were authorized and
required to determine the validity of the selection.
Congress granted to New Mexico for the support of
common schools designated sections of land in each township, subject to specified exceptions, with a provision enabling and entitling the State to select other lands in lieu
of those excepted, and with a further provision whereby,
in the event any of the designated sections after passing
under the grant should be included within a public reservation, the State was to be entitled to Waive its right
to them and select instead other land of equal acreage.
See California v. Deseret Water, etc., Co., 243 U. S. 415.
All lieu lands were to be selected "under the direction and
subject to the approval of the Secretary of the Interior."
Acts of June 21, 1898, c. 489, §§ 1, 8, 30 Stat. 484; March
16, 1908, c. 88, 35 Stat. 44; June 20, 1910, c. 310, §§ 6,
10-12, 36 Stat. 557; February 28, 1891, c. 384, 26 Stat. 796,
amending §§ 2275, 2276, Rev. Stats.
Sonm of the tracts in place after passing under the grant
were included within a public reservation called the Alamo
National Forest. Afterwards, on March 9, 1915, the
State filed in the local land office a selection list waiving its
fight to one of these tracts and selecting in its stead other
land of like area lawfully subject to selection. The list
conformed to the directions givon by the Secretary of the
Interior and was accompanied by the requisite proofs and
the proper fees. Notice of the selection was duly posted
and published, proof of publication was submitted and the
publisher's charge was paid. In other words, the waiver
and selection were regularly presented and all was done by
the State that needed to be done by it to perfect the
selection. The notice did not bring forth any protest or
obijection, and in due course the local land officers forwarded
the list and supporting proofs and papers to the General

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S.

Land Office with a certificate stating that there was no
adverse filing, entry or claim to the land selected and that
the list had been accepted and approved by them. The
list remained pending in that office until May 16, 1916,
when the Commissioner directed that the selection be canceled solely on th2 ground that in the meantime, on April
3, 1916, the base tract-the one the right to which was
waived-had been eliminated from the reservation by a
change in its boundaries. The State appealed to the Secretary of the Interior and he affirmed the Commissioner's
action. Both officers proceeded on the theory that the
validity of the selection was to be tested by the conditions
existing when they came to examine it and not by those
existing when the State made it-in other words, they conceived that although the selection was lawful when made
they could and should disapprove it and direct its cancelation by rEason of the elimination of the base tract from the
reservation a year later.
The courts below rejected that view and held that those
officers were required to give effect to the conditions existing
when the selection was made and that, if it was valid then,
they werE not at liberty to disapprove or cancel it by reason of the subsequent change in the status of the base tract.
In our opinion the courts were right. The provision under
which the selection was made was one inviting and proposing an exchange of lands. By it Congress said in substance to the State: If you will waive or surrender your
titled tra(t in the reservation, you may select and take in
lieu of it a tract of like area from the unappropriated nonmineral public lands outside the reservation. Acceptance
of such a proposal and compliance with its terms confer a
vested right in the selected land which the land officers
cannot lawfully cancel or disregard. In this respect the
provision under which the State proceeded does not differ
from other land laws which offer a conveyance of the title
to those who accept and fully comply with their terms.

PAYNE v. NEW MEXICO.
367.

Opinion of the Court.

In the brief for the officers it is frankly and rightly conceded to be well settled that "a claimant to public land
who has done all that is required under the law to perfect
his claim acquires rights against the Government and that
his right to a legal title is to be determined as of that time";
and also that this rule "is based upon the theory that by
virtue of his compliance with the requirements he has an
-equitable title to the land; that in equity, it is his and the
Government holds it in trust for him." See Lytle v. Arkansas, 9 How. 314, 333; ,Stark v. Starrs, 6 Wall. 402, 417-418;
Ard v. Brandon, 156 U. S. 537, 543; Payne v. Central Pacific Ry. Co., ante, 228. But it is said that as the selection
is "subject to the approval of the Secretary of the Interior"
no right can~become vested, nor equitable title be acquired,
thereunder unless and until his approval is had, and therefore that the rule just stated is not applicable here. To
this we cannot assent. The words relied upon are not
peculiar to this land grant, but are found in many others.
Their purpose is to cast upon the Secretary the duty of
ascertaining whether the selector is acting within the law,
in respect of both the land relinquished and the land selected, and of approving or rejecting the selection accordingly. The power conferred is"judicial in its nature!' and
not only involves the authority but implies the duty "to
determine the lawfulness of the selections as of the time
when the exertion of the authority was invoked by the
lawful filing of the list of selections." Weyerhaeuser v.
Hoyt, 219 U. S.380,388; Danielsv. Wagner, 237'U. S. 547,
557, et Seq.; Payne v. Central Pacific Ry. Co., supra. This
view of it has been enforced where the Secretary, misconceiving his authority and the rights of the selector, erroneously declined to approve and can."eled selections lawfully
made. St. Paul & Sioux Cty R. R. Co. v. Winona & St.
Peter R. R. Cn., 112 U. S.720; Daniels v. Wagner, supra.
And it should be observed that this view has been recognized and applied by the land department, although rPt

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

with uniformity. In the case of Gideon F. McDonald, 30
L. D. 124, which involved a lieu land selection and a state
of facts much like those now before us, it was said by the
Secretary of the Interior: "When the selection was filed
the land embraced in the accomj-anying deed of relinquishment and reconveyance was within the limits of the forest
reserve and a proper basis for a selection under said act, and.
the land selected by McDonald in exchange was, according
to the records of your [Commissioner's] office, of the character subject to such selection and free from other claim or
appropriation. ,By this deed'of relinquishment and reconveyance to the United States of his own land situate
within the boundaries of the forest reserve, and by his
selection of the lieu land, McDonald accepted the standing
offer or proposal of the government contained in the act of
June 4, 1897, and complied with its conditions, thereby
converting the mere offer or proposal of the government
into a contract fully executed upon his part, and in t1 e
execution of which by the government he had a vested
right. After McDonald had fully complied with the terms
on which the government by- said act had declared its
willingness to be bound, no act of either the executive or
legislative branch of the government could divest him of,
the right thereby acquired. Your [Commissioner's] office
will therefore carefully examine the pape:s and records
pertaining to this selection and if it is found: to be otherwise free from objection, the fact of-the elimination from
the boundaries of the forest reserve of the lands in lieu of
which the selection is made, after full compliance by the
claimant with the lieu land act and regulations, will not
prevent approval of the selection."
In Californiav. Dcseret Water, etc., Co., supra, which involved a like waiver and selection alleged to have been.
lawfully mace and to be awaiting action by the Sec.-etary,
the United States, in a brief presented by leave of the court,
took the position that by the waiver it acquired such an

WINTON v. AMOS.
367.

Syllabus.

equitable right in the base tract as prevented a condemnation of the tract as the property of the State. The state
court held the waiver and selection of no effect and this
court reversed that decision.
We conclude that an injunction was rightly awarded,
but that it Will be better suited to the occasion if it be confined \ to directing a disposal of the selection in regular
course unaffected by the elimination of the base tract from
the reservation. With this modification the decree is
Affirmed.

WINTON, ADMINISTRATOR OF WINTON, ET AL.
v. AMOS AND OTHERS, KNOWN AS THE MISSISSIPPI CHOCTAWS.
BOUNDS, ATTORNEY-IN-FACT FOR BOUNDS, v.
SAME.
LONDON v. SAME.
FIELD ET AL. v. SAME.
BECKHAM v. SAME.
VERNON t,. SAME.

HOWE,' EXECUTRiX OF HOWE v. SAME.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Nos. 6-12. Argued January 14, 15, 19i9: restored to docket for rpargument January 5, 1920; reargued April 21, 22, 1920.-D-Iecided
March 7, 1921.
1. The acts authorizing these suits against Mississippi Choctaws
(April 26, 1906, c. 1876, § 9, 34 Stat. 140; May 29, 1908, c. 216,
§ 27, 35 Stat. 457), contemplate not ar action in rersonam tn ea-

