OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

ST. LOUIS, IRON MOUNTAIN & SOUTHERN
RAILWAY COMPANY ET.AL. v. J. F. HASTY &
SONS, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 178.

Submitted January 21, 1921.-Decided February 28, 1921.

1. Where a case in the District Court arising under the Constitution
has been reviewed by this court under Jud. Code, § 238, this court
retains jurisdiction to review a supplementary decree of the District Court not directly involving any constitutional question.
P. 254. Arkadelphia Co. v. St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co., 249
U. S. 134.
2. A tariff giving special rates on rough wood material on shipment to
mill, on condition that certain percentages of it by weight should be
shipped over the same line after manufacture, and which specified
as rough materials "Rough Lumber, Staves, Flitches, Bolts, and
Logs," and among finished materials "Staves and Heading," held
applicable to "bolts" out of which barrel headings were made, the
term "bolts" in this connection having a loose generic meaning. Id.
3. Where the meaning of such a tariff was plain, held that an application for a construction by the state commission by which it was
promulgated was not necessary for enforcement of a shipper'a
rights under it. P. 256.
Affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. George A. McConnell and Mr. John M. Moore for

appellants.
Mr. W. E. Hemingway, Mr. George B. Rose, Mr. D; H.
Cantrell and Mr. J. F. Loughborough for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the

court.

This case is a sequel of Allen v. St. Louis, Iron Mountain
& Southern Ry. Co., 230 U. S. 553, and Arkadelphia Co. V.

ST. LOUIS, I. MT. & SO. RY. v. HASTY & SONS.
252.'

253

Opinion of the Court.

St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co.;' 249 U. S. 134.

See also

St. Louis, Iron Mountain & Southern Ry. Co. -v. McKnight,
244 U. S. 368. The Arkansas Railroad Commission having in June, 1908, adopted Standard Distance Tariff No. 3,
establishing maximum intrastate freight-rates, the present
appellant railway company attacked its Validity in a Suit
brought against the Commission in the United States Circuit Court for the Eastern District of Arkansas, contending
that the iates were non-compensatory and' therefore
violative of the "due process of law " clause of the Fourteenth' Amendmefit. A temporary injunction was issued
and continued in force until May 11, 1911, when the Circuit Court entered a final decree making the injunctiQn
permanent, and discharging the surety from furthc, Hability on the injunction bond. On appeal to" this court
the decree was reversed June 16, 1913, with directions
to dismiss the bill without prejudice, and for further proceedings in conformity with the opinion: and decree of
this court. 230 U. S. 553. Upon the going down of the
mandate the United States District Court' (successor
of the Circuit Court) entered a decree in obedience thereto,
at the same tine making a reference to a special master
for the purpose of ascertaining the claims of intervening
shippers for refund of the difference paid by them in
freight rates between those prescribed by the Commission
and the higher ones maintained by the railway company
during the pendency of the injunction. Under this reference the present appellees J. F. Hasty & Sons presented
a claim based upon the difference between rates charged
on rough material transported from forest to milling
points and the rates provided in the commission tariff on
such movements. That tariff contained maximum rates
on such lumber applicable generally, and in addition provided for a" milling-in-transit privilege," by fixing certain
"rough material rates" lower than the others, conditioned
upon a specified percentage of the manufactured product

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

being shipped out on the same line that brought in the
rough material. The railway company excepted to the
claim on two grounds, (a) that the rough material rates
were discriminatory, and (b) that they were not applicable to the shipments of Hasty & Sons because these
constituted interstate commerce and hence were -not
subject to the Commission's rates. The District Court
sustained both exceptions. The resulting decree so far
as adverse to Hasty & Sons was reversed by this court
(249 U. S. 134, 147-152), and the cause remanded for
further proceedings in conformity with our opinion.
Upon the going down of this mandate there were further
hearings before the referee and the District Court upon
the claim of Hasty & Sons and claim of the same type

presented by three other intervening shippers-; and from
the resulting decree in their favor the present appeal is
taken. Although the only question immediately involved
is- the proper construction. of the Standard Distance
Tariff, we have jurisdiction, as we had in the Arkadelphia
Case, supra, because the decree is but supplementary to
the main cause-bringing to effective conclusion, if not
vitiated by error, the. controversy that arose out of the.
railway company's attack upon-the -rateson constitutional
.grounds-and hence must be regarded as involving the
,construction and application of the Constitution of the
United States, within the meaning of § 238, Judicial Code.
See 49 U. S.140-142.
The disputed claims are based in the main upon alleged
overcharges on rough material shipped over appellant's
road to the respective mills of appellees, and there manufactured into heading for barrels. The question is whether
Item 79 of Distance Tariff No. 3 provided a rough-material rate for heading. It reads a follows:
'Item -79... Rough- Material Rates.
.
"(a). Rough Material Rates

applicable on Rough

Lumber, Staves, Flitches, Bolts, and Logs, car loads,

ST. LOUIS, I. MT. & SO. RY. v. HASTY & SONS.
252.

255

Opinion of the Court.

between all points in Arkansas, minimum weight.
[Here -follows a table of rates graduAted according to
distance.]
"(b) The above named rates are conditionhal upon the
manufactured product being reshipped over the. same,
line bringing in.the rough material, and may be only used
subject -to the following ,conditions: The proportion of
the' tonnage of outbound manufactured product to the
tonnage of in-bound rough material shall not be less than
the following:

.

[Here follows a table of percentages applicable to various
products; among them:]
"Finished Staves, 40 per cent. of weight. of rough staves.
"Staves and Headirig, 30 per cent. 'of weight of. bolts."
At the hearing before the master it was admitted that
the claimants shipped out over the line ,of road that
.brought in -the rough material the requisite percentages
of manufactured product in the usual course of business;
nevertheless, appellant objected to the allowance of the
claims, on the ground that Item 79 provided no rate on inbound rough heading but the same was covered by Item 41,
and since 'the general rates provided therein were higher
than those actually charged, there was no basis for a
refund. The objection was renewed in an exception to
the master's&report and. urged at the hearing before the
court on.the report and exceptions. The master found
that rough heading was covered as rough material in Item
79, and the District Court sustained that conclusion.
Appellant's contention is baged upon a literal reading of
the opening sentence of Item 79: •'"Rough. Material
Rates- applicable on Rough Lumber, Staves, Flitches,
Bolts, and Logs," etc.; and since' "rough heading." is not
•mentioned here, while the associated material "staves"
is specified, it is contended: that rough heading is not
provided'for.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

From the testimony taken before the master it would
appear that the raw material from which barrel heads
are made is variously described as rough heading, sawed
heading, split heading, and bolts or heading bolts; but
it also appears that, whatever may be the distinctions,
4;he terms are used loosely and indiscriminately in the
trade and in billing shipments, material of either description being considered rough material, and all having-been
handled by the railway company under the rough-material
rate on its own schedules, without regard to particular terms.
We regard appellant's reading of Item 79 as altogether
too narrow. The scope and effect of the rough-material
rates should be determined not by regarding the opening
sentence alone, but by looking also to the list of finished
products to be manufactured from the material, and
considering the general purpose of Item 79. In the table
of percentages, there are specified "Finished Staves, 40
per cent. of weight of rough staves," and "Staves and
Heading, 30 per cent. of weight of bolts." The purpose is
manifest to give the benefit of the milling-in-transit rate
to rough material out of which heading is manufactured,
and no reason appears for limiting it to material of a
particular description. The wc-rd "bolts," used in connection with staves and heading, should be taken not as confining the privilege to rough material of a particular form,
but in the generic sense in which it is employed in woodworking, as meaning: "A mass of wood from which anything may be cut or formed" (Century Diet.); "A block of
wood from which something is to be made; as, a shinglebolt; a stave-bolt" (Standard Diet.); "A block of timber to
be sawed or cut into shingles, staves, etc." (Webster's Diet.)
The matter is so free from doubt that there is no occasion to apply to the Commission for a construction, as
insisted by appellant under Texas & Paific Ry. Co. v.
American Tie Co., 234 U. S.138, 146.
Decree affirmed.

