OCTOBER TERM, 1920.

468

Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

FRIEDMAN v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 221. Argued March 17, 1921.-Decided March 28, 1921.
Section 2347 of the Revised Statutes, in providing that public coal
lands may be entered upon payment of "not lers than " ten dollars
per acre 'nd "not less .than " twenty dollars per acre, according
to their distance from a completed railroad, sets up ttiof prices as
minima and by implication empowers the Secretary of the Intrior
to charge higher prices proportionate to the vlue of tracts sold.
P. 469.
54 Ct. Clms. 225, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Charles A. Keigwin, with whom Mr. William R.
Andrews was on the brief, for appellant.
The Solicitor General, with whom Mr. W. Marvin Smith
was on the brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the

-court.
Action to recover the sum of $3,600, excessive payment
exacted by the Secretary of 'the Interior for 120 acres of
coal land, which plaintiff (we so designat4 hiV in this opinion) was entitled to enter and did enter under § 2347 of the
Revised Statutes.
The Court of Claims dismissed the petition and from
its.
I.
judgment this appeal is prosecuted.
The right of plaintiff to enter the land is not disputed.
The dispute is as to the price prescribed by § 2347. Its
provision is that payment shall be made of not less than
$10 per acre lf the. lands selected be more than 15 miles

FRIEDMAN v. UNITED STATES.
468.-

' 469

Opinion of the Court.

from a completed railroad, and not less than $20 per acre if
they be within 15 miles of the railroad.
The entry of plaintiff was within 15 miles of the railroad
and the Secretary required the payment of $50 per acre.
The requirement is attacked as beyond the power of the
Secretary, it being in excess of the statutory price which,
it is contended, is $20 per acre; and to sustain the attack
there is adduced the prior practice of the Interior Department and cases whose analogy, it is contended, demonstrate that the words "not less than twenty dollars per
acre" mean not more than twenty dollars per acre. The
answer to the contention would seem necessarily to be that
"less" and "more" are words of contrast-indeed of opposition, and cannot be confounded. It is easy to see that
if their difference should be disregarded in dealing with the
things of the world, sensible or insensible, the resulting
confusion would be hard to describe.
Plaintiff makes the words even more facile to management than in the above contention and makes them exclude all freedom of judgment and choice of price which
they seem not only to imply but to require, in the administration of § 2347. In support of the liberty of identifying
or confusing different things plaintiff invokes the practice
of the Interior Department from 1873 to 1907, and urges
that Congress by silence gave sanction and approval to the
practice.
The inference deduced from the practice and.the asserted sanction we cannot accept. The practice was but
the exercise of administration by the Department upon
the then circumstances, deemed proper and adequate then
and accepted as such by Congress.
In 1907 there was a chang of conditions and they dictated a change in administration and, in aid of a judgment
of values and its exercise under the direction of § 2347, coal
lands were subjected to classification and appraisement,
a procedure not arbitrary but safe and sensible, establish-

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

ing a proportional relation between the payment made and
the value of the lands received. And this is consonant
with the statute; indeed, is its direction,. if its words. be
considered. There has been no protesting objection from
Congress, and the Executive and Legislative Departments
have been in accord for fourteen years. The present practice of the Interior Department therefore has the same
confirmation that plaintiff asserts for its prior practice.
Plaintiff however, contends that § 2347 is the successor
of prior legislation and that by such legislation, and decisions under it, the words "not less than" of that'section
have been made the equivalent "of the minimum and
minimum price" of. prior legislation and that $20 per acre
is the "sole price fixed by law" for lands within. fifteen
miles of a completed railroad.
The legislation referred to is an Act of July 1, 1864, c.
205, 13 Stat. 343; an Act of March 3, 1865, c. 107, 13 Stat.
529; and an Act of March 3, 1873, c. 279, 17 Stat. 607; the
latter statute becoming § 2347 and other sections.
The first act provided for the sale of coal lands at public
auction "at a minimum price of twenty dollars per acre";
and that "any lands not th s disposed of" should" thereafter be liable to private entry at said minimum." The
second act provided that coal land could be entered by a
citizen actually engaged in mining upon it "at the minimum price of twenty dollars per acre, fixed in the coal and
town property act of" July 1, 1864. The third act omits
provision for offering coal lands at auction and subjects
them to private entry at not less than $10 or $20 an acre,
according to distance from a completed railroad. This
provision became § 2347.
These acts were the successors of one another in general
policy but not in details. In the latter they differed in
provision and progressed to the explicit declarations of
§ 2347 and their inevitable meaning. And there is nothing
to tte contrary in Colottdo Coal & Iron Co. v. United

FRIEDMAN v. UNITED STATES.
468.

Opinion of the Court.

States, 123 U. S. 307, 325. The case, indeed, was concerned
with other provisions than those involved here.
We need not go beyond this general exposition. It
would extend this opinion to a repellent length to trace
and comment upon the details and refinements of plaintiff's
reasoning, and upon the analogies he urges of the price of
lands under the preemption and other laws.
We are not impressed with the contention that if the
price of $20 an acre is not the fixed and ultimate price there
is no test of price and that the Secretary of the Interior
"may charge what price he chooses
-.no law put-.
ting any restraint upon his action," and that the "sale of
coal lands may be stopped altogether if, for any reason, the
Secretary considers that to be judicious or desirable."
This is tantamount to saying that the Secretary may abuse
his trust and the power conferred upon him to execute it.
There is no argument against conferring power or denying
power in the assertion that it may be abused. The world
acts and must act upon a different consideration. Government would otherwise be impossible. Besides, there is
no contention that there is an arbitrary abuse of power in
the present case, and when such abuse shall occur a remedy may be of concern and no doubt will be found.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE took no part in the consideration
and decision of this case.

