VANDALIA R. R. CO. v. SCHNULL.
109.

Syllabus.

by Congress that the various provisions of this complicated statute shall be regarded as separable.
The record shows, however, that the trial court repeatedly rejected testimony offered by defendants for
the purpose of showing the market value of the goods in
question at times material to the controversy, and that
.exceptions were duly allowed. The effect of the rulings
was to deprive defendants of the benefit of this standard,
by which the jury might have determined whether the
prices defendants agreed to exact for the merchandise
were excessive; and for this reason only I concur in the
reversal of the judgment of conviction as to this count.
As to the other counts, I concur in the reversal upon the
ground that the statute, in declaring it unlawful "to make
any unjust or unreasonable rate or charge in handling or
dealing in or with any necessaries," does not include the
exaction of an excessive price for merchandise sold.

VANDALIA RAILROAD COMPANY v. SCHNULL
ET AL., COMPOSING THE FIRM OF SCHNULL
& COMPANY, ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF INDIANA.
No. 125.

Argued December 16, 17, 1920.-Decided February 28, 1921.

1. A railroad rate fixed by state authority violates the Fourteenth
Amendment if it does not yield the carrier a reasonable return upon
the class of traffic to which it applies. P. 119.
2. *Arate which, so tested, is deficient, is not saved by the fact that the
intrastate business as a whole is remunerative. Id. Northern Pacific
Ry. Co. v. North Dakota, 236 U. S. 585; Norfolk & Western Ry. Co.:v.
West Virginia, 236 U. S. 605.

114

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255

I.S.

3. An answer should be construed with recognition of its implications
and with regard to the issue to which it is addressed. P. 121.
4. In reviewing the decision of a state court upholding a state railroad
rate against a charge of confiscation, this court will follow that court
in assuming that the issue was sufficiently raised by the pleadings
and defined by the evidence. P. 122.
5. In a suit by shippers to enforce obedience by a railroad company
to an order of a state commission fixing rates, held that a contention,
made by the plaintiffs for the first time in this court, to the effect that
the company's remedy was by direct review of the order under the
state law, could not be entertained where the state court, without
referring to such remedy, had considered the company's defense
of confiscation upon the merits and decided against it. Id.
6. A bill brought by a railroad company against a state commission
to enjoin enforcement of an order fixing rates assailed as confiscatory,
was dismissed without prejudice, because inadequacy of the rates
was not proven by the evidence. Held, not res judicata in a subsequent suit by shippers against the company to compel it to observe
the order in futuro. P. 123.
188 Indiana, 87, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. D. P. Williams, with Whom Mr. Samuel 0. Pickens,
Mr. Frederic D. McKenney, Mr. Charles W. Moores,
Mr. R. F. Davidson and Mr. Owen Pickens were on the

briefs, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Karl Knox Gartner,with whom Mr. Gibbs L. Baker,
Mr. Charles W. Smith, Mr. Henry H. Hornbrook, Mr.
Charles Remster, Mr. Albert P. Smith and Mr. Paul Y.
Davis were on the briefs, for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
Defendants in error, alleging themselves to be engaged
either as wholesale or as retail grocers in Indianapolis,
Indiana, brought this suit against plaintiff in error, herein

YANDALIA R. R. CO. v. SCHNULL.
113.

Opinion of the Court.

called the Railroad Company, to restrain it from charging
or receiving any other compensation than that mentioned
and described in an order entered by the Railroad Commission of the State on December 14, 1906, and which, it is
alleged, became effective February 1, 1907, and to require the Railroad Company to receive and transport
freight at the rates prescribed in the order of the Commission.
The first pleading of the Railroad Company was a
demurrer to the complaint. We omit it, as it was overruled and as the case depends upon the answer of the
Railroad Company and a demurrer to it. It was in three
paragraphs. In the first it denied "each and _every
material allegation." of the complaint. In the second it
alleged that the order of the Commission would not
yield "revenue sufficient to reimburse defendant for
its actual cost and outlay in handling and carrying the.
and proclasses of property specified in said order, . .
vide a fair return to defendant on the value of defendant's
property used" in the service; and that, therefore, if theorder of the Commission should be 'enforced, the Railroad
Company would be deprived of its property without due
process of law in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment.
In the third paragraph it alleged that within 60 days
after the act of the State took effect it filed with the
.Commission a schedule of its rates and charges between
all of the points in the State, that. it had kept on file a
like schedule in every station and depot and in its offices,
that its charges had been in accordance with such schedules
and were legal rates for the'service, and that complainants
(defendants in error) had not been and were not damaged
thereby. Dismissal of the suit was prayed.
There -was a demurrer to the second, paragraph for
insufficiency to constitute a defense, aad, following the
local practice, there was a memorandum specifying the
grounds, as follows: (1) There was no statement that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

order of the Commission was unremunerative or confiscatory at the time it was made, or at the time suit was
brought, but only at the time the answer was filed. Nor
did it aver that at either of those times the rates would
not pay the cost cf the service to which they were applicable and leave the company a fair return upon the
property used in the service. (2) Nor aver that, when
taken in Connection with the other rates lawfully prescribed by the Commission and its successor, the Public
Service Commission, the rates did not afford an adequate
and remunerative compensation for the handling and
transportation of all classes of freight or passengers
covered by such orders. (3) The averment that thb rates
were not compensatory "states no issue of fact, but the
mere conclusion of the pleader as to a material fact."
(4) The answer did not profess to set out the schedules of
rates filed with the Commission or posted in the offices
of the Railroad Company. And further, that, if tho
schedules of rates varied from those of the Commission,
they were thus far unlawful and invalid under the laws
of the State and constituted no defense to the action;
"the mere continuance in such -wrongful conduct" did
"not constitute a defense." And further, if the rates
charged were the same as those prescribed by the Commission, the fact could be proved under the general denial.
The demurrer was sustained by the court and the
-Railroad Company ruled to answer by September 5,
1916. The company elected, to stand by its answer and
declined to plead further. The case, therefore, rested on
the complaint and the denial of its allegations by the
Railroad Company, and upon the issue thus made there
was a trial 'upon which there were admitted in evidence
over the objcction of the Railroad Company, a transcript
of the record of the suit brought by the Railroad Company
against Union B. Hunt, et al., constituting the Railroad
Commission of the State, in the District Court of. the

VANDALIA R. R. CO. v. SCHNULL.
113.

Opinion of the Court.

United States for the District of Indiana, and a transcript
of the record in the same case in this court, entitled Wood
v. Vandalia R. R. Co., 231 U. S. 1, and, over objection,
-the proceedings before the Railroad Commission under
which the order wV made, establishing the rates that
are the subject of controversy.
The court enjoined the, Railroad Company from charging, collecting or receiving from plaintiffs and others in
like situation other rates than those mentioned in the
order of the Commission, and enjoined the rates in excess
thereof. The decree specifically mentioned the rates to
be charged. It was affirmed by the Supreme Court of
the State.
It will be observed, therefore, that one of the grounds
of the demurrer to the second paragraph of the answer
of the Railroad Company was, not that the rates were
not non-compensatory, but that they were not alleged to
be so at the time of the order of the Commission or at
the commencement of the suit, but were only alleged to
be so at the time of filing the answer. The Supreme Court
seems to intimate concurrence in this view of the answer,
but said, whether its ruling were based on that construction
of the answer "or upon the evidence heard," it was
satisfied that the railroad had "not tendered or made a
defense, and that the decision" of the trial court was
correct.
The court put in contrast the contentions of the parties
as follows: "Appellees [plaintiffs] assert that, for all that
thus appears, appellant may receive sufficient net income on all its other business on this division, and on all
of its business, including the specified classes, on other
divisions, to furnish it a fair return on all its investments
and operations, including the transportation of these
classes, and therefore appellant will receive all to which
it is entitled, though this order be enforced." "Appellant
[Railroad Company] asserts that the State has no power

118

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

to thus segregate a certain class of traffic and require the
railroad company to carry that traffic at unremunerative
rates."
The cases that were adduced to sustain the respective
contentions the court enumerated, but considered that
there was "little or no conflict" in them and that any
confusion in them "almost altogether disappears" when
they "are read in view of the fundamental principles
involved." The court's conclusion from the cases was,
that "a carrier is entitled to fair remuneration on all its
investments and property. It is entitled-to no more.
For this it undertakes to reasonably serve in the capacity
chosen by it. It undertakes to serve for no less: If the
carrier receives, in the aggregate, such fair remuneration,
notwithstanding the rates on a part of its business are
not remunerative, the carrier has no basis for complaint."
And further, "When a rate on a part of the business is
too low, some other part of the carrier's business may
be paying too much, thus preventing a deficiency of
income which would otherwise result from the nonremunerative rates. In such cases the shippers affected
by the higher rates may have a basis for -complaint.
Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466, op. 540, et seq." The court
considered that the principle of the proposition announced was in its opinion "strongly upheld" in Wood
v. Vandalia R. R. Co., which the court regarded "to say
the least" as holding that the hearing upon the character
of rates "is not properly confined to the particular rates
and the 'actual cost and outlay' in carrying the classes
specified on a specified division in ascertaining whether
a fair return is provided."
The court, therefore, makes clear the federal question,
and its decisi(n makes the question precise by a contrast
of the contentions of the parties. Let us repeat them:
that of the Railroad Company is that the revenue from
traffic to which the rates apply is the test of their legality

VANDALIA R. R. CO. v. SCHNULL.
113.

Opinion of the Court.

and any deficiency in them cannot be made up by rates
on some other traffic; that of the defendants in error is
that the revenue from all of the intrastate business of
the Railroad Company is to be taken into account, and,
if it be sufficient to remunerate the Railroad Company,
the particular rates, though unremunerative, are nevertheless legal,
The question presented by the contentions is not easy
of off-hand solution, though its elements are easy of
declaration. A railroad is private property, and as such
a rate may be fixed for its use; but it is private property
devoted to the public service, and as such it is subject to
the power of the State to see and require that the rate
fixed be just and reasonable, one that, while it will yield
a revenue to the railroad, will be proportioned to that
which should be charged to the public. And this relation
of right and power is illustrated in many cases. It is
declared in Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. North Dakota,
236 U. S. 585, and a test of it given, that is, when the
right must yield to the power and when the power is
limited by the right. And there was a consideration and
review. of -all of the elements involved. It was declared
.that the legislature "has a wide range of discretion in
the exercise of the power to prescribe reasonable charges,
and is not bound to fix uniform rates for all commodities
or to secure the same percentage of profit on every sort
of business.... . . It is not bound to prescribe separate rates fof every individual service performed, but it
may group services by fixing rates for classes of traffic."
*And this court will not sit in judgment upon such action
and substitute its judgment for that of the legislature
when reviewing "a particular tariff or schedule which
yields substantial compensation for the services it embraces, when the profitableness of the intrastate business
as a whole isnot involved." ''But" the court said, "a
different question arises when the State has- segregated'

OCTOBER TERM,. 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

a commodity, or a class of traffic, and has attempted to
compel the carrier to transport it at a loss or without
substantial compensation even though the entire traffic
to :which the rate is applied is taken into .account. On
that fact being satisfactorily established, the presumption
of reasonableness is rebutted." And further, "it has repeatedly been assumed in the decisions of this court,
that the State has no arbitrary power over the carrier's
rates and may not select a particular commodity or class
of traffic for carriage without reasonable reward." It
-was, hence, concluded that where there is such segregation and a rate imposed which would compel the carrier
to transport a commodity "for less than the proper cost
of transportation, or virtually at cost" the carrier would
be "denied a reasonable reward for its service," and "the
State has exceeded its authority."
The case and its principle were followed and illustrated
in Norfolk & Western Ry. Co. v. West Virginia, 236 U. S.
* 605, and the principle applied to a passenger rate. It
was there said, explaining the "range of permissible
action" by a State, that the State "has no arbitrary
and that the State may not
. .
power over rates;
select a commodity, or class of traffic, and instead of
fixing what may be deemed to be reasonable compensation for its carriage, compel the carrier to transport it
either at less than cost or for a compensation that is merely
nominal." See also Brooks-Scanlon Co. v. Railroad Commission of Louisiana, 251 U. S.396.
These cases leave nothing to be said, nor need we review the prior cases from, which they are deductions.
The concession of counsel is "that it may be admitted
that the North, Dakota and West Viginia Cases have
greatly discredited the previous theory and practice
under which a rate which returned any revenue over and
above 'out of pocket' costs was considered to be con. " Counsel are misstitutionally remunerative ..

VANDALIA R. R. CO. v. SCHNULL.
113.

Opinion of the Court.

taken in their judgment of those cases. They did not
discredit what had been announced of either theory or
practice, they only removed them from misunderstaiiding
and controversy and declared a principle that assigned
to the State a useful power of regulation while it accorded
to railroads a reasonable return upon the capital invested
and a reward for enterprise; a principle, therefore, which
keeps power and right, in proper relation, if we may
repeat ourselves, power not exercised in excess, right not
used in abuse.
It is, however, contended by the defendants in error
that the averments of the answer (second paragraph)
are not sufficient to present the issue of law based upon
it because it does not allege that the rates are not compensatory of the cost of the service "between the stations
to which the rate applies" and that, therefore, it may
well be that they are remunerative of that service, and
'"only be non-remunerative when applied to some other
carriage." And it is further urged that the answer fails
to specify upon what part of the carrier's property the
rates will not yield a fair return, and that it is consistent
with the answer that there may be a fair return on the
value of the property "used in carriage between the
stations named in the order, although not sufficient to
'provide a fair return on the value of . . . property
used and employed in handling and carrying the classes
of property in said order specified' over some other part
of its line."
The distinctions are artificial and strained. They are
an attempt to make the necessary implications of- the
answer no part of it. The averment of a pleading need
not be so certain that an affirmative allegation of the
existence of a fact or condition must be accompanied by
the negation of that which is contradictory to it or inconsistent with it. The answer besides is addressed to
the complaint and to the rates and order of the Cormnis-

.122

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
-Opinion of the Court.

25 U. S.

sion that constitute the bases of the complaint and puts
them and the effect of them in issue. In other words,
the complaint deals with the rates and service between
designated stations, and the answer deals with those
rates and that service. And the Supreme, Court so regarded it and explicitly said that the evidence made the
issue. Counsel attack the conclusion as unsupported
but we must accept it as it is the judgment of the court
we are reviewing and it is to be estimated by the reason
given for it.
We, therefore, repeat, we regard the answer as a reply
to the complaint and as alleging the invalidity of the order
of the Commission because it required a service that the
rates did not compensate, and necessarily this involves a
consideration of all of the. elements which are involved in
that service and determine its effect. It is to. be remembered that we are dealing with a pleading. What
the evidence may show we can neither know nor anticipate.
Another contention of defendants in error is that the
law of the State' prescribes the remedy to be pursued
against an order of the Commission to be to procure from
the secretary of the Commission a transcript of the proceedings before the Commission and file such transcript
with a statement of the causes of complaint against the
action of the Commission in the office of the clerk of the
Appellate Court of the State within a designated time,
and give notice to the Commission. And it is said, the
Appellate Court is given power to affirm the action of
the Commission or ta change, modify, or set it aside as
justice may require, and that its judgment is made final.
This procedure was not followed, it is said, and that hence
the answer (paragraph 2) of the Railroad Company-"was
not a compliance with this requirement of the substantive
law of Indiana,'" and "for this reason failed to state a
defense."
.The contention- is made for the first time in this court.

VANDALIA R. R. CO. v. SCHNULL.
113.

Dissent.

Its lateness may not militate against it, but that it did
not occur sooner to counsel and not at. all to the Supreme
Court, demonstrates its unsoundness. It is to be remembered that this is a suit, not by-the Railroad Company but against the Company, and its purpose is to
enforce rates- established by the Railroad Commission,
which the Railroad Company is resisting. The decision
of the Supreme Court upon the grounds of guit and resistance is here for review, and we must assume that all
thaqt was pertinent to either the court considered,: and
regarded all else untenable, including the contention now
urged by counsel. It must, therefore, be'rejected.
The final contention 6f defendants in error is that
Wood v. Vandalia R. R. Co., 231 U,.S. 1, is res adjudicata
of the issues in this case. The suit was by the Railroad
Company to restrain the order, of the Commission involved in the present litigation, and the ground of attack
was, as it is here, that the rates ordered were not compensatory of the service to which they applied. The
averments of the bill we held unsustained by the proofs
and nothing more was decided. The judgment was not
that the order of the Commission was valid but that it
wasnot shown by the bill to be invalid, and the bill was
dismissed without prejudice. That is, without' preclusion
of the7 right to show 'it invalid when attempted to be
enforced .at a subsequent period. Missouri v. Chicago,
Burlington & Quincy R. R. CO., 241 U. S. 533, 539,'540.
We cannot therefore yield to the conteition.
It follows that the decree must be reversed and it is
So ordered and the case remandedfor further proceedings
not inconsistent with this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE DAY, MR. JUSTICE PITNEY, MR. JUsTIcE
BRANDEiS and MR. JUSTICE C LARxE, dissent.

