THE CARLO POMA.
216.

Syllabus.

Secretary of State stating that the Ambassador was the duly
accredited diplomatic representative of Italy, but while
that established his diplomatic status it gave no sanction
to the suggestion. The terms and form of the suggestion show that the Ambassador did not intend thereby
t6 put himself or the Italian Government in the attitude
of a suitor, but only to present a respectful suggestion and
invite the court to give effect to it. He called it a "suggestion "and we think it was nothing more. In these circumstances the libelants' objection that, to be entertained, the
suggestion should come through official channels of the
United States was well taken. Ex parte Muir, 254 U. S.
522. And see United States v. Lee, 106 U. S. 196, 209.
With the suggestion eliminated, as it sh 9 uld have been,
there obviously was no basis for holding that the ship was
not subject to-the court's process. What the decree should
have been if the matters affirmed in the suggestion had
been brought to the court's attention and established in
an appropriate way we have no occasion to consider now.
An opportunity so to present and establish them should
be accorded when the case goes back, as it must.
Decree reversed.

THE CARLO POMA. 1
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 167.

Argued January 26,27, 1921.-Decided February 28, 1921.

An appeal does not lie to the Circuit Court of Appeals from a final
decree of the District Court releasing a vessel upon the ground that
its ownership and possession by a foreign power place it beyond the
docket title of this case is: Cavallaro v. Steamship " Carlo
Poma," Her Engines, etc.; Kinqdom of Italy, Claimant.
IThe

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

jurisdiction in admiralty. Jud. Code, §§ 128, 238. The Pesaro,
ante, 216.
259 Fed. Rep. 369; decree vacated with direction to dismiss appeal

from District Court.
THIS was certiorari to review a decree of the Circuit
Court of Appeals affirming a decree of-the District Court,
in admiralty, which dismissed a libel in rem. The case
is stated in the opinion.,

Mr. Oscar R. Houston and Mr. Harold V. Amberg, with
whom Mr. D. Roger Englar-.wason the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Van Vechten Veeder for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE

VAN

DEVANTER

delivered the opinion

of the court.
This case is much like that of The Pesaro, ante, 216.
The only difference requiring notice is that the appeal
in that case was to this court while in this it was to the
Circuit Court of Appeals, which rendered a decree of
affirmance. 259 Fed. Rep. 369. A writ of certiorari
brings that decree here for review. 250 U. S. 656.
The question raised and decided in the District Court
was whether, sitting as a court of admiralty, it could
entertain a suit in rem against a ship such as the Carlo
Poma was represented to be in the suggestion of the Italian
Ambassador. That was a jurisdictional question in the
sense of § 238 of the Judicial Code. The Pesaro, supra.
The court resolved it in the negative and accordingly
released the ship from arrest, thereby disposing of the
suit adversely to the libelant.
From that decree an appeal did not lie to the Circuit
Court of Appeals, but only to this court. Such is the
effect of the statute, Jud. Code, §§ 128, 238, defining and
regulating the appellate jurisdiction of this court and of
the Circuit Court of Appeals, as is pointed out in United

BODKIN v. EDWARDS.
219.

Statement of the Case.

States v. Jahn, 155 U. S. 109, 114. In that case, after an
extended review of the statute, it was said: "If the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court [now District Court] is in
issue and decided in favor of the defendant, as that disposes of the case, the plaintiff should have the question
certified and take his appeal or writ of error directly to
this court."
As therefore the decree in the District Court was not
open to review by the Circuit Court of Appeals, we must
vacate the latter's decision and cemand the case to it with
a direction to dismiss the appeai. See Union & Planters'
Bank v. Memphis, 189 U. S. 71, 73-74; CarolinaGlass Co..
v. South Carolina,240 U. S. 305, 318.
Decree of Circuit Court of Appeals vacated with direction
to dismiss appeal from District Court.

BODKIN v. EDWARDS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 495. Motion to dismiss or affirm submitted December 6, 1920.Decided February 28, 1921.
1. The court accepts the concurrent findings of the District Court
and. Circuit Court of Appeals upon the facts in an equity case, unless clear error is shown. P. 223.
2. Where the facts determine the decision, and where tie record exhibits no clear error in the concurrent findings and the appellant
has not brought up all the evidence, a decree may be affirmed on
motion to avoid the harmful and useless delay, of retaining the case
-for oral argument. Id.
265 Fed. Rep. 621, affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals

