OCTOBER TERM, 1920.

28

Syllabus.

255 U.,S.

DAWSON, ATTORNEY GENERAL OF THE STATE
OF KENTUCKY, ET AL. v. KENTUCKY DISTILLERIES & WAREHOUSE COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

'FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.

DAWSON, ATTORNEY GENERAL OF THE
COMMONWEALTH OF KENTUCKY, AND INDIVIDUALLY, ET AL. v. J. & A. FREIBERG
COMPANY, INCORPORATED.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF,THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.
Nos. 439, 582.

Argued January 6, 1921.-Decided February 28, 1921.

1.The tax sought to be imposed by a law of Kentucky of fifty cents
a gallon upon whisky either withdrawn from bond within the State
or trarsferred in bond from the State elsewhere, although described
as an "annual license tax" on persons engaged "in the business
of owning and storing" whisky in bonded warehouses, is not an
occupation tax but essentially a property tax, tested by the local
law. P. 291.
2. 'Being a property tax, it is void because it fails to comply with § 171
of the Kentucky constitution, which provides that taxes shall be
"uniform upon all-property of the same class subject to taxation";
-whisky never having been classified separately and being taxed
inder another law on its fair cash value. P. 291.
3. To pay under protest and sue to recover is not such an adequate
legal remedy against an illegal state tax as will prevent the federal
courts from exercising their equitable jurisdiction to restrain enforcement if the right to recover back is'uncertain under the. state law
when the injunction suit is begun. P. 295. § 162, Ky. Stats., considered.
4. An equitable remedy available in the state court is not lost by.
" suing in a federal court. P. 296.
5. Under the amendment of Jud. Code, § 266, which provides that

DAWSON v. KENTUCKY DISTILLERIES CO.
288.

289

Opinion of the Court.

proceedings in a federal court to restrain execution of a state statute
shall in certain circumstances be stayed to await determination of a
suit in a state court to enforce it accompanied: by a stay of proceedings under it, the stay granted in the state court must be
sufficiently general to protect the suitors in the federal court from
the irreparable injury against which they there sought protection.
P. 296.
274 Fed. Rep. 420, affirmed.

DIRECT appeals, under Jud. Code, § 266, from orders
granting interlocutory injunctions. The facts are stated
in the opinion.

Mr. Chas. I. Dawson, Attorney General of the Commonwealth of Kentucky, with whom Mr. W. T. Fowler,
Assistant Attorney General of the Commonwealth of
Kentucky, was on the briefs, for appellants.
Mr. W. Overton Harris, for Louisville Public Warehouse
Company, appellant in No. 582.
Mr. JWilliam Marshall Bullitt, with whom Mr. Levy
Mayer was on the brief, 'for appellee in No. 439.
,,Mr. Thomas Kennedy Helm and Mr. Levi Cooke, with
whom Mr. Edmund F. Trabue, Mr. John C. Doolan and
Mr. James P. Helm, Jr., were on the brief, for appellee
in No. 582.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the

court.
On March 12, 1920, the Legislature of Kentucky passed
and the Governor approved an act which imposed upon
every person engaged in the business of manufacturing
whisky or "in the business of owning-and storing " the
same in bonded warehouses within the State what -was
called an "annual license tax" of fifty cents a gallon upon
all whisky either withdrawn from -bond or,transferred in
bond from Kentucky to a point outside that-State. Acts

290

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

1920, c. 13. The act took effect, by its terms, on its approval by the Governor. At that time there were stored
in such bonded warehouses about 30,000,000 gallons oi
whisky worth in bond perhaps $1.50 a gallon. Much of
this whisky was owned by citizens- of other Sties, their
ownership being evidenced by negotiable warehouse
receipts. Shortly after the enactment of the statute two
suits were brought in the District Courts of the United
States for Kentucky to enjoin its enforcement. The
first was bfought in the Western District, by the J. & A.
Freiberg Company, Incorporated, an Ohio corporation;
the second in the Eastern District by the Kentucky Distilleries and Warehouse Company, a New Jersey corporation. The Attorney General-of the Commonwealth and
the Auditor of Public Accounts were made defendants in
each. In the former the Louisville Public Warehouse
:Company was -alsoa defendant; in the latter, the Commonwealth's Attorney.
In the Freiberg case it was alleged that the whisky was
in a general bonded warehouse; 1 that the owner wished
to withdraw it for removal in bond to a general bonded
Every bonded warehouseman was required to make to the State
on June 1, 1920, and monthly thereafter, a report showing all the
whisky in bonded storage and the number of proof gallons withdrawn
or transferred. The act provided by § 3 that all bonded warehousemen "shall, at the time said reports herein provided for are made, pay
to the Auditor.of Public Accounts the tax of fifty cents per proof gallon
..upon each proof gallon of such spirits removed from the bonded warehouse. . .
or transferred under bond out of this State, up to the
date of making such report; and for the purpose of securing the paym ent of the license taxes herein provided for, the Commonwealth shall
have a lien on all such spirits stored in such bonded warehouses, together with the other property of the bonded warehousemen used in
• connection therewith; and in all cases where the spirits so removed or
transferred were owned or controlled by another than the bonded
warehouseman, then the bonded warehouseman shall collect and pay the
tax due on.Guch spirits so removdo or transferred under bond, and shall
be subrogated to the lien of the Commonwealth."

DAWSON v. KENTUCKY DISTILLERIES CO.
288.

291

Opinion of the Court.

warehouse in Massachusetts; and that the defendant
warehouseman, acting under provisions of the Kentucky
statute, refused to permit such transfer unless the tax in
question was paid by the owner. In the Distilleries
Company case the plaintiff alleged that it had in its distillery warehouses large quantities of whisky, most of
which was owned by others, that requests were being
made daily either to withdraw lots from bond upon paying the government tax or to have them transferred in
bond to other States; and that the defendants threatened
to enforce heavy penalties if any such withdrawal or
transfer was permitted without making payment of the
fifty cents a gallon state tax. In each case a motion for
an interlocutory injunction was made and heard before
three judges under § 266 of the' Judicial Code. The substantial questions presented in the two suits were the same.
The plaintiff contended, in each, that the Kentucky
statute was void under both the state and federal constitutions; and in each case the defendants, besides asserting the validity of the act, insisted, among other things,
that the suit should be dismissed for wan. of equity because there was an adequate remedy at law. The District Courts granted plaintiffs' motions, holding that
there was no adequate remedy at law and that the statute
was invalid under the constitution of the State because
it was a property tax, Aas not uniform in its operation,
and was confiscatory. The case comes here by direct'
appeal under § 266 of the Judicial Code. We shall consider first the validity of the tax.
First. The Attorney General concedes that the tax,
if a property tax, is invalid; since it does not comply with
the requirements of a property tax specified in § 171 of
the state constitution. It is not "uniform ' upon alr property of the same class subject to taxation," I and though
If the tax in question were a property tax there would be double
taxation of this property and the uniformity clause would be violated,

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion. of the Court.

255 U. S.

called an "annual" tax was not intended to be such.1
He contends, however, that the'tax is, as stated in the
title of the-act, a license tax upon "the business, of manufacturing " distilled spirits and upon "the business of
owning and storing such spirits in bonded warehouses."
Section 181-of the state constitution authorizes license
or occupation taxes; and statutes imposing such taxes
measured by -the amount of the product have been repeatedly sustained by its highest court. Raydure v.. Board
of Super7isors, 183 Kentucky, 84; Strater Bros. Tobacco Co.

v. Comhmonwealth, 117 Kentucky, 604. Here we are concerned only with the taxes which are alleged to be on
"the business of owning and storing such-spirits in bonded
warehouses." The question is whether as to such this
fifty cents a gallon tax is an occupation tax or is a property tax. The question is one, of local law, so that a decision of it by the highest court of the State would be'
accepted by us as conclusive. But the validity of the
statute does not appear to have' been passed upon by
any Kentucky court. We are, therefore, called upon,
as were the District' Courts, to determine this question
of state law.
The name by which the tax is .described in the statute,
is, of course, immaterial. Its character must be determined by its incidents; and obviously it has none of the
because the whisky has never been put into a separate class; and under.
another statute all whisky stored in bondeq warehouses was required
to be assessed by the State Ta'x Commission at its fair cash value; and.
taxes at the rate of 40 cents per $100 of value were payable thereon.
Ky. Stats., §4019, as amended March 5,1918, c. 4, Acts 1918. Compare Campbell County v. City of Newport, 174-Ky. 712, 723; Raydure v.
Board of Supervisors, 183 Ky. 84, 97
I'
t was admitted thatit would be clearly void as being confiscatory
unless it was assurmed that it Was to be levied only once-namely when
the whisky is withdrawn from bond or when it is transferred in bond
to another-8tate. Compare Sallsbury v. EquitablePurchasing Co., 177
Ky. 348. 351; 353.

DAWSON v. KENTUCKY DISTILLERIES CO.
288.

293

Opinion of the Court.

ordinary incidents of an occupation tax. Unlike the tax
of one and one-fourth cents a gallon upon rectifiers sustained in Brown-Forman Co. v. Kentucky, 217 U. S. 563,
and the tax of two cents a gallon upon distillers and warehousemen sustained in Greene v. Taylor, Jr. & Sons, 184
Kentuky, 739, this tax is not upon the business or occupation of the warehouseman. A particular lot of whisky
may pass through a dozen bonded warehouses without
one of them being obliged to pay the tax. For the only.
warehouseman required to do so, is he who has the whisky
on storage at the time of its removal from bond (Government) tax paid or when it is transferred in bond to another State. The tax is made primarily payable by the
warehouseman and to secure its payment the State is
given a lien upon the warehouse and the whisky therein.
But the warehouseman is a collection agency merely empowered to get reimbursement through subrogation to
the State's lien on the whisky of others which ultimately
bears the burden of the tax. Nor'is the alleged business
of merely owning and storing whisky in bond made taxable. So long as the whisky is stored in bond within the
State it is free of the tax. One may own and store the
whisky for years in the hope of selling it at a profit, and
yet be free from any obligation ever to pay this tax, if,
before its removal from bond within the State, the whisky
is sold to another or if, while so owned, it is destroyed or
forfeited to the Government. Likewise the tax is not
one imposed ipon the business of owning, storing and
removing whisky from bond. For the tax would become
payable on account of whisky removed, although there had
not been storage for any appreciable time;- thus the tax
would be payable on whisky if it had been removed from
the warehouse immediately after the approval of the act.
Nor is the tax one on the business of removing liquor
owned. For the tax is payable in respect to any lot of,
whisky removed; and a single transaction does not -col-

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

stitute engaging in the business, be it that of buying and
selling whisky or in the business of otherwise using it.'
In fact the tax is one imposed upon each lot of whisky at
the time it is removed from bond within the State. The
tax might be said to be upon the act of removal from the
bonded warehouse within the State. But as stated by the
lower court, "the thing really taxed is the act of the owner
in taking his property out of storage into his own possession (absolute or qualified) for the purpose of making
some one of the only uses of which it is capable, i. e., consumption, sale or keeping for future consumption or sale.
.

.

.

The whole value of the whisky depends, upon

the owner's right to get it from the place where the law
has compelled him to put it, and to tax the right is to
tax the value." To levy a tax by reason of ownership
of property is to tax the property. Compare Thompson
v. Kreutzer, 112 Mississippi, 165; Thompson v. McLeod,
112 Mississippi, 383. It can not be made an occupation
or license tax by calling it so. See Flint v. Stone Tracy Co.,
220 U. S. 107, 148-150; Zonne v. Minneapolis Syndicate,
220 U. S. 187; United States v. Emery, Bird, Thayer Realty
Co., 237 U. S. 28. The language of the emergency clause
in the act discloses that the Legislature considered that it
2
was, in fact, taxing the whisky.
As we hold the tax to be one on property and it is conceded that, if it be such; it is invalid under the state
constitution, we have no occasion to consider whether
That an isolated transaction would not under the law of Kentucky
constitute engaging in a business; see Hays v. Commonwealth, 107 Ky.
655, 658; Evers v. City of Mayficld, 120 Ky. 73, 77; Louisville Lozier Co.
v. City of Loidsville, 159 Ky. 178, 180.
2 "Aid whereas, the liquor which they.are handling and in which
they are dealing is constantly'in, large quantities being removed from
the bonded warehouses aid disposed of, without the State securing
an adequate licevn.e tax thereon,, an emergency is hereby declared to
exist."

DAWSON v. KENTUCKY DISTILLERIES CO.
288.

295

Opinion of the Court.

it would be also invalid under the state constitution as a
license or excise tax, because confiscatory; compare Owen
County v. F. & A. Cox Co., 132 Kentucky, 738, 743; City
of Louisuille v. Pooley, 136 Kentucky, 286; Salisbury v.
Equitable Purchasing Co., 177 Kentucky, 348, 351, 354;
or for other reasons. Nor need we consider whether it
is not also obnoxious to the Federal Constitution as imposing a burden upon interstate commerce. Compare
Heyman v. Hays, 236 U. S. 178.
Seconc!. The Attorney General insists that these bills
in equity should have been dismissed because each plaintiff
had a plain, adequate and complete remedy at law. The
contention rests upon § 162 of the Kentucky Statutes,
which declares that: "When it shall appear to the Auditor
that money has been paid into the treasury for taxes when
no such taxes were in fact due, he shall issue his warrant
on the treasury for such money so improperly paid, in
behalf of the person who paid the same."
Greene v. Taylor, Jr. & Sons, 184 Kentucky, 739, is
cited to show that if the Auditor fails in this duty, a writ
of mandamus will issue to compel performance. The
plaintiffs, it is said, should have paid the tax under protest and have sued at law to recover tl? amounts so paid.
But when these suits were brought (April and May, 1920)
the decisions of the highest court of the State left it at
least doubtful whether money so paid could have been
recovered at law by the taxpayer, among other reasons,
because the money would not have been paid under compulsion of distraint or of a right of distraint or under a
mistake of law or of fact.' It was not until November 16,
1920, which was after these appeals had been entered in
Compare Louisville City National 1',ink v. Coulter, 112 Ky. 577P
584; Covity v. Bosworth, 160 Ky.312; Louisville Gas Co. v. Bosworth,
169 Ky. 824; and the first opinion in Craig v. Security Producing &
Rciniug Co., rendered March 9, 1920.

296

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.,
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

'this court, that Craigv. Security Producing & Refining Co.,
189 Kentucky, 565, 568, settled that money paid under
such circumstances could'be recovered. The Court of
Appeals of Kentucky recognized the doubt arising from
its earlier decisions and in order to remove the doubt
found it necessary to overrule several of its recent opinions,
"so far as they conflict with the construction herein given
section 162."
It is well settled that "if the remedy at law be doubtful, a court -of equity *will not decline cognizance of the
suit." Davis v. Wakelee, 156 U. S. 680, 688. But whatever remedies § 162 is now regarded as conferring, it is
clear that at the time this suit was brought they were
not regarded in Kentucky as sufficiently adequate to oust
the jurisdiction of equity to enjoin the illegal collection
of, taxes. Gates v. Barrett, 79 Kentucky, 295; Norman v.
Boaz, 85 Kentucky, 557, 560; Negley v. Henderson Bridge
Co., 107 Kentucky, 414; Louisville Trust Co. v. Stone, 107
Fed. Rep. 305, 309. And if the equitable remedy was
available in the state courts it was not lost by suing in
the federal court. Davis v. Gray, 16 Wall. 203, 221;
Cowley v. Northern Pacific R. R. Co., 159 U. S. 569. Nor
is the equitable jurisdiction lost because since the filing
of the bill an adequate legal remedy may have become
available. Beedle v. Bennett, 122 U. S. 71; Busch v. Jones,
.184 U. S.'598. We have no occasion, therefore, to consider other reasons urged why the legal remedy, if any,
would have been inadequate.
Third. The Attorney General moved that these suits
be abated relying upon the amendment to § 266 of the
Judicial Code by Act of March 4, 1913, c. 160, 37 Stat.
1013, which declares that if before the final hearing of an
application to restrain the enforcement of a statute or
an order made by an administrative board or commission,
"a suit shall have been brought in a court of the State
having jurisdiction thereof under the laws of such State,

DAWSON v. KENTUCKY DISTILLERIES CO.
288.

297

Opinion of the Court.

to enforce such statute or order, accompanied by a stay in
such State court of proceedings under such statute or
order pending the determination of such -suit by such
State court, all proceedings in any court of the United
States to restrain the execution of such statute or order
shall be stayed pending the final determination of such
suit in the courts of the State."
The suit pending in the state court was this: A liquor
dealer who owned whisky in a distillery warehouse had,
prior to the enactment of the statute here in question,
caused it to be bottled in bond and had paid thereon the
two-cent a gallon state tax imposed under the law of 1917.
He claimed the right to withdraw the whisky from bbnd
without payment of the fifty cents a gallon tax; and
brought suit in a county court to enjoin the warehouseman from preventing his doing so. The latter set up
this 1920 Act. Thereupon the plaintiff, by amended
petition, joined the Attorney General and the Auditor
as codefendants and prayed that they be enjoined from
compelling the plaintiff or the warehouseman to pay the
fifty-cents' a gallon tax on the plaintiff's Whisky. A
restraining order to that effect issued.
Whether this suit in the county court was of such a
character as to entitle the state officials to stay the proceedings in the federal court we do not decide. Strictly
speaking it was not "brought .

.

.

to enforce " the

statute in question; but it is, at least, arguable that it
might have been accepted by the state officials as a means
to that end, and so have fulfilled in substance the statutory
requirement. See House Report No. 1584, 62nd Cong.
3rd sess. But whether this is true or not, it was not "accompanied by a stay in such State court of proceedings
under such statute," within the meaning of the Judicial
Code. The stay contemplated by Congress is a general
one, which would protect, among others, those who had
already sought protection in the federal court. The re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Syllabus.

255 U. S.

straining orderI -isued in the purely private litigation
between Tird parties in the county court left the plaintiffs
in the suits before us subject to all the danger of irreparable injury against which they had sought protection
in the federal courts.

Affim~wd.

GOULED v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE 'CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 250.

Argued January 4, 1921.-Decided February 28, 1921.

1. The Fourth and Fifth Amendments are to be liberally construed.
P. 303.
2. When a defendant in a criminal case first learns of the Government's possession of his document when it is offered against him on
the trial, his objection that it was obtained by an unreasonable
search and seizure should not be overruled as coining too late. P. 305.
3. An unreasonable search and seizure, in the sense of the Fourth
Amqndment, does not necessarily involve the employment of force
or coercion, but is committed when a representative of any branch
or subdivision of the Government, by stealth, through social acquaintance, or in the guise of a business call, gains entrnce to the
house or office of a person suspected of crime, whether in the presence
or absence of the owner, and, in the owner's 'absence, searches for
and abstracts his papers without his kniwledge or consent. P. 305.
4. The admission of a paper so obtained in evidence against and over
the objection of the owner when indicted for crime, compels him
to be a witness against himself, in violation of the Fifth Amendment. P. 306.
5. The Fourth Amendment permits of searches and seizures under
1 "You

are hereby enjoined from requiring from the plaintiff or his
agents or distiller in charge, payment of the fifty-cent per gallon
license tax on his whiskies described, in the petition . . . until
the further oi-ders of the court."

