MAGUIRE v. REARDON.

,271:

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

MAGUIRE ET AL. v. REARDON ET AL., AS COMMISSIONERS, CONSTITUTING THE BOARD OF
PUBLIC WORKS OF THE CITY AND COUNTY
OF SAN FRANCISCO, ET AL.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF APPEAL OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA IN AND FOR THE FIRST APPELLATE DISTRICT,
DIVISION ONE.
No. 202.

Argued January 28, 1921.-Decided February 28, 1921.

The Fourteenth Amendment does not prevent a city from demolishing
and removing wooden buildings, built within defined fire limits in
face of prohibitory regulations in force at the time. P. 273.
41 Cal. App. 596, affirmed.

THIs was a writ of,error to review a judgment of the
District Court of Appeal, California, affirming a judgment of the Superior .Courtof the City and County of San
Francisco refusing injunctive relief sought by the present
plaintiffs in error. The Supreme Court of California had
denied an application for further review. The case is
stated in the opinion.
Mr. J. F. Riley, for plaintiffs in error, submitted;
In his brief he contended that, at the time of the erection
of the building in question, there was no restriction on the
material that might.be used, either under the city charter or
under the ordinnces on the subject then in force; that, if
any such ordinance provided otherwise, it and a subsequent
prohibitory ordinance were unconstitutional in that they
unreasonably discriminated against structures of wood as
compared with those made of other inflammable material,
such as canvas, paper and "beaver board," and in that
they did not forbid. the city itself to erect wooden buildings.

272

-OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

The city retained and continued its use of such buildings
within the very area in question.
Also, the later ordinance under which destruction of the
building was threatened, deprived the owners of their
vested rights without due process of law.
The building was substantial, costing $12,000, erected
without protest, and an oven, constituting a part of it and
costing $700, had been installed with the consent of and
under the written permit and supervision of defendants.
Also, from the city's permit to erect was to be implied a
contract guarantee of the right to enjoy and maintain,
which was now sought to be impaired.
The ordinance was retroactive and unreasonable. The
defendants were without legal power, and were estopped.
Mr. Maurice T. Dooling, Jr., with whom Mr. George
Lull was on the brief, for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTIcE

McREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the

court.
Defendants in error, officers and agents of the City and
County of San Francisco, purporting to act under an
ordinance approved May 8, 1917, gave notice of their intention to demolish and remove a wooden building on Van
Ness Avenue, the property of plaintiffs in error. Thereupon the latter instituted this proceeding for an injunction
upon the ground, among others, that as the building was
lawfully erected the ordinance violated the Federal Constitution.
The court below, following Bancroft v. Goldberg, Bowen
o& Co., 166 California, 416, held that the building was
erected in 1906 within the fire limits theretofore prescribed
in violation of valid local regulations duly enacted under
the charter, and consequently there could be no reasonable
doubt of the municipality's power to direct its removal.

EX PARTE CHICAGO, R. I. & PAC. RY.
271.

Syllabus.

The meaning and effect of the charter and ordinances
thereunder are questions of local law determination of
which by the state courts we commonly accept as conclusive. It is admitted that the building was constructed
within defined fire limits, and the Supreme Court of the

State has said this was contrary to valid regulations then
in force. The challenged ordinance must therefore be
treated as affecting an unlawful structure, and as so applied
-we can find no plausible ground for holding it in conflict

with the Federal Constitution.
The judgment below is
Affirmd.

EX PARTE IN THE MATTER OF CHICAGO, ROCK
ISLAND & PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY, PETITIONER.
ON PETITION FOR WRIT OF PROHIBITION AND/OR WRIT OF
MANDAMUS.
No. 24i Original.

Argued December 13, 1920.--Decided February 28,
1921.

1. A writ of prohibition, or of mandamus, to restrain a lower court
from assuming jurisdiction, will ordinarily be denied if the lower
court's jurisdiction is doubtful, or depends upon findings of fact
made upon evidence not in the record; or if the complaining party
has another adequate remedy by appeal or otherwise. Pp. 275, 280.
2. The immunity of a person from suit in a district whereof he is not
an inhabitant (Jud. Code, ยง 51) can be waived; and ordinarily is
waived by a general appearance. P. 279.
3. In a creditor's suit resulting in a receivership of a railroad company
and in a reference to ascertain claims, bonds of the company were
actively asserted by the bondholders' committee and the mortgage
trustee, and counsel for present petitioner, a large holder of the bonds,
appeared in its behalf before the special master as one of the
counsel for the committee. Hdid: (1) That the District Court had

