OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Syllabus.

255 U. S.

straining orderI -isued in the purely private litigation
between Tird parties in the county court left the plaintiffs
in the suits before us subject to all the danger of irreparable injury against which they had sought protection
in the federal courts.

Affim~wd.

GOULED v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE 'CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 250.

Argued January 4, 1921.-Decided February 28, 1921.

1. The Fourth and Fifth Amendments are to be liberally construed.
P. 303.
2. When a defendant in a criminal case first learns of the Government's possession of his document when it is offered against him on
the trial, his objection that it was obtained by an unreasonable
search and seizure should not be overruled as coining too late. P. 305.
3. An unreasonable search and seizure, in the sense of the Fourth
Amqndment, does not necessarily involve the employment of force
or coercion, but is committed when a representative of any branch
or subdivision of the Government, by stealth, through social acquaintance, or in the guise of a business call, gains entrnce to the
house or office of a person suspected of crime, whether in the presence
or absence of the owner, and, in the owner's 'absence, searches for
and abstracts his papers without his kniwledge or consent. P. 305.
4. The admission of a paper so obtained in evidence against and over
the objection of the owner when indicted for crime, compels him
to be a witness against himself, in violation of the Fifth Amendment. P. 306.
5. The Fourth Amendment permits of searches and seizures under
1 "You

are hereby enjoined from requiring from the plaintiff or his
agents or distiller in charge, payment of the fifty-cent per gallon
license tax on his whiskies described, in the petition . . . until
the further oi-ders of the court."

GOULED v. UNITED STATES.
298.

Argument for the United States.

valid search warrants, when justified by an interest of the public, or
of the complainant, in the property to be seized, or in its possession,
or when a lawful exercise of police power renders its possession by
the accused unlawful and provides for its seizure; and papers as such
are not immune from such search and seizure. P. 308.
6. But papers of no pecuniary value in themselves, which are evidence
of criminal fraud against their owner, and are of interest to and are
sought by the Government for use as evidence merely and not because
they have been or may be used to defraud it, as an executed contract
might be, cannot constitutionally be searched for and seized in their
owner's house or office by resort to a search warrant. P. 310.
7. Papers lawfully obtained under a valid search warrant may be
used as evidence by the Government in prosecuting a person for a
different offense than that charged against him in the affidavit upon
which the search warrant was issued. P. 311.
8. Where, in the progress of a criminal trial, it becomes probable that
there has been an unconstitutional seizure of papers of the accused,
it is the duty of the trial court to entertain an objection to their
admission in evidence against-him or a motion for their exclusion,
and to decide the question as then presented, even where a motion
to return the papers has been denied before trial and by another
judge. P. 312.
THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Charles E. Hughes, with whom Mr. Martin IF.

Littleton and Mr. Owen N. Brown were on the brief, f ar
Gouled.
The Solicitor Generalfor the United States:
Either actual force or legal compulsion is necessary to
constitute an unreasonable search and seizure..
A search made by invitation or with consent, fredy
given could not be called an unreasonable search'
The holding of Boyd v. United States, 116 U. S. 616, is
that force' is a material ingredient in any unreasonable

search 'and seizure,, though this need not always be
physical force, but that such force is present when a legislative act requires the accused either to surrender his pa-

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for the United States.

255 U. S.

pers or submit to severe pains and penalties. The rule
requiring force as an ingredient has not been further modified by any later decisions of this court. On the contrary,
when the rule of the Boyd Case has been applied, the court
has been careful to show that that rule rests upon the
proposition that compulsion by legislative or judicial
authority is the equivalent of physical force by which, as a
result of a search, a man is dispossessed of his property.
Hale v. Henkel, 201 U. S. 43.
In the present case, the certificate expressly negatives
the use of force of any kind, Cohen entered the office, not
under any claim of right, but as a friend. He gained access
to. the papers in the same way. He had and claimed to
have no legal process. No legislative act gave him authority, and he claimed no authority under any such act.
Physical force was not used and there is no pretense of any
legal compulsion to which Gouled was subjected. This
alone precludes any conclusion that there was a violation
of the Fourth Amendment.
The Fourth Amendment is a limitation upon the powers
of the Federal Government. It is not violated by a search
and seizure, howcever wrongful, which is not made under
governmental authority, real or assumed, or under color of
such authority. Barron v. Baltimore, 7 Pet. 243, 249;
Boyd v. United States, supra; Adams v. New York, 192
U. S. 585, 598; Weeks v. United States, 232 U. S. 383, 394.
That it was not intended to apply the rule laid down in
the Weeks Case to the acts of an officer of the Federal
Government merely because he happened to be such an
officer, but only to such acts of his as are done under color
of his office or under a eiaim of autho)rity, was made clear
throughout the opinion.
'In Silverthorne Lumber Co. v. United States, 251 U. S.
385, 391, the court is again careful to recognize that, in
order to be within the protection of the Fourth Amendment, the acts of an officer of the Government must be

GOULED v. UNITED STATES.
298.

Argument for the United States.

done under color of office or authority. See Flagg v.
UnitedStates, 233 Fed. Rep. 481, 483.
Every search and seizure made by an officer without a
search warrant is not within the condemnation of the
Fourth Amendment. It is the right and duty of the
Government to secure evidence of crime, even from the
accused himself, if this can be done without violating his
constitutional rights. These. rights are not violated if an
officer goes to the accused and asks and is granted permission to enter his house or his office. Equally they are not
violated if the officer, without express invitation or permission, enters a place of business which is open to the
public. And again, if the personal relations existing between the officer and the accused are such that the former
is in the habit of visiting the latter at his office or his home,
there is nothing undawful in his making such a visit, even
though he may not disclose that he is in search of evidence.
When an officer has lawfully entered a house or an office in
any of these ways, the Constitution- does not require him
to shut his eyes to any evidence of crime that may be open
'to his observation. State v. Mausert, 88 N. J. L. 286;
Adams v. New York, supra, 597.
These decisions make it clear that if the entry and whatever search is made are made lawfully, any evidence that
may be incidentally obtained while thus acting lawfully
is' not obtained through an unconstitutional search and
seizure. In the :present case, even if Cohen had been an
officer, it could not be said that he entered the office of
Gouled or obtained access to his papers unlawfully, for the
certificate excludes all idea of force or legal compulsion as a
result of which any search was made or information
obtained.
It is not a valid objection to the use of papers in evidence that they have been seized as the result of an unreasonable search and their admission is not error unless
the court has committed a previous error in refusing,

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

upon application seasonably made, to order them returned.
Adams Case, supra, 594-598; Weeks Case, supra, 393,
396, 398; Johnson v. United States, 228 U. S. 457, 458;
Matter of Harris, 221 U. S. 274, 279, 280; Perlman v.
United States, 247 U. S. 7, 15.
The Act of June 15, 1917, expressly authorizes search
warrants for property which has been used as the means of
committing a felony. That one's private papers are his
property in the fullest sense of that word, regardless of
whether they may possess any value to another, can
scarcely be doubted. See Boyd Case, supra, 627. Contracts may be used to and may be the means of bribing
public officials and defrauding the Government.
Even if the particular papers seized and subsequently
used in evidence were not such as could have been lawfully made the object of a search warrant, their seizure cannot from this record be said to have been in violation of the
Fourth Amendment. When the officer went to the office
he was serving a warrant which had a legal purpose in the
attempt to find the papers described. In making the
search, therefore, he was acting legally; and if, while so
acting, he discovered evidence of crime and took it, he did
not violate the rights of Gouled under the Fourth Amendment. This was held in the Adams Case, supra.
An act of Congress which authorizes a search warrant
for property which has been used in the commission of a
felony is not subject to constitutional objections.
MR. JusTIcE CLARKE delivered the opinion of the court.
In a joint indictment the plaintiff in error, Gouled, one
Vaughan, an officer of the United States Army, and a
third, an attorney at law, were charged, in the first count,
with being parties to a conspiracy to defraud the United
States, in violation of ยง 37 of the Federal Criminal Code,
and, in the second count, with having used the mails to

GOULED v. UNITED STATES.
298.

Opinion of the Court.

promote a scheme to defraud the United States, in violation of ยง 215 of that Code. Vaughan pleaded guilty, the
attorney was acquitted, and Gouled, whom we shall
refer to as the defendant, was convicted, and thereupon
prosecuted error from the Circuit Court of Appeals, which
certifies to this court six questions which we are to consider.
Of these questions, the first two relate to the admission
in evidence of a paper surreptitiously taken from the office
of the defendant by one acting under direction of officers
of the Intelligence Department of the Army of the United
States, and the remaining four relate to papers taken from
defendant's office under two search warrants, issued pursuant to the Act of June 15, 1917, c. 30, 40 Stat. 217, 228.
It was objected on the trial, and is here insisted, that
it was error to admit these papers in evidence because
possession of them was obtained by violating the rights
secured to the defendant by the Fourth and Fifth Amendments to the Constitution of the United States.
The Fourth Amendment reads:
"The right of the people to be secure in their persons,
houses, papers and effects, against unreasonable searches
and seizures, shall not be violated, and no warrants shall
issue, but upon probable cause, supported by oath or
affirmation, an4 particularly describing the place to be
searched, and the persons or things to be seized."
The part of the Fifth Amendment here involved reads:
"No person . . . shall be compelled in any criminal case to be a witness against himself."
It would not be possible to add to the emphasis with
which the framers of our Constitution'and this court
(in Boyd v. United States, 116 U. S. 616, in Weeks v. United,
States, 232 U. S. 383, and in Silverthorne Lumber Co. v.
United States, 251 U. S. 385) have declared the importance
to political liberty and to the welfare of our country of the
due observance of the rights guaranteed under the Consti-

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.

Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

tution by these two Amendments. The effect of the
decisions cited is: that such rights are declared to be indispensable to the "full enjoyment of personal security, personal liberty and private property"; that they are to be
regarded as of the very essence of constitutional liberty;
and that the guaranty of them is as important and as
imperative as are the guaranties of the other fundamental
rights of the individual citizen,-the right, to trial by
jury, to the writ of habeas corpus and to due process of law.
It has been repeatedly decided that these Amendments
should receive a liberal construction, so as to prevent
stealthy encroachment upon or "gradual depreciation" of
the rights secured by them, by imperceptible practice of
courts or by well-intentioned but mistakenly over-zealous
executive officers. In the spirit of these decisions we must deal with the
questions before us.
The facts derived from the certificate, essential to be
considered in answering the first two questions, are: that
in January, 1918, it was suspected that the defendant,
Gouled, and Vaughan were conspiring to defraud the
Government through contracts with it for clothing and
equipment; that one Cohen, a private in the Army,
attached to the Intelligence Department, and a business
acquaintance of defendant Gouled, under direction of his
superior officers, pretending to make a friendly call upon
the defendant, gained admission to his office and, in his
absence, without warrant of any character, seized and
carried away several documents; that one of these papers,
described as "of evidential value only" and belonging to
Gouled, was subsequently delivered to the United States
District Attorney, and was by him introduced in evidence
over the objection of the defendant that possession of it
was obtained by a violation of the Fourth or Fifth Amendment to the Constitution; and that the defendant did not
know that Cohen had earried away any of his papers until

GOULED v. UNITED STATES.

298.

Opinion of the Court.

he appeared on the witness stand and detailed the facts
with respect thereto as we have stated them, when, necessarily, objection was first made to the admission of the
paper in evidence.
.Out of these facts arise the first two questions, both relating to the paper thus seized. The first of these is:
"Is the secret taking or abstraction, without force, by
a representative of any branch or subdivision of the
Government of the United States, of a paper writing of
evidential value only belonging to one suspected of crime
and from the house or office of such person,-a violation
of the 4th amendment?"
The ground on which the trial court overruled the objection to this paper is not stated, but from the certificate and
the argument we must infer that it was admitted either
because it appeared that the possession of it was obtained
without the use of force or illegal coercion, or because the
objection to it came too late.
The objection was not too late, for, coming as it. did
prompt)ly upon the first notice the defendant had that the
Government was in possession of the paper, the rule of
practice relied upon, that such an objection will not be
entertained unless made before trial, was obviously inapplicable.
The prohibition of the Fourth Amendment is against all
unreasonable searches and seizures and if for a Governmont officer to obtain entrance to a man's house or office
by force or by an illegal threat or show of force, amounting
to coercion, and then to search for and seize his private
papers would be an unreasonable -and therefore a prohibited search and seizure, as it certainly would be, it is
impossible to successfully contend that a like search and-,
seizure would be a reasonable one if only admission were
obtained by stealth instead of by force or coercion. The
security and privacy of the home or office and.of the papers
of the owner would be as much invaded and the search and

OCTOBER TERM, 1920..
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

seizure would be as much against his will in the one case as
in the other, and it must therefore be regarded as equally
in violation of his constitutional rights.
Without discussing them, we cannot doubt that such
decisions as there are in conflict with this conclusion are
unsound, and that, whether entrance to the home or office
of a person suspected of crime be obtained by a representative of any branch or subdivision of the Government of the
United States by stealth, or through social acquaintance,
or in the guise of a business call, and whether the owner be
present or not when he enters, any search and seizure
subsequently and secretly made in his absence, falls
within the scope of the prohibition of the Fourth Amendment, and therefore the answer to the first question must
be in the affirmative.
TLe second question reads:
"Is the admission of such paper in evidence against
the Eame person when indicted for crime a violation of
the 5th amendment?
Upon authority of the Bojd Case, supra, this second
question must also be answered in the affirmative. In
practice the result is the same to one accused of crime,
whether he be obliged to supply evidence against himself
or whether such evidence be obtained by an illegal search
of his premises and seizure of his private papers. In
either case he is the unwilling source of the evidence,
and the Fifth Amendment forbids that he shall be
compelled to be a witness against himself in a criminal case.
The remaining four questions relate- to three other
papers which were admitted in evidence on the trial over
the same cons itutional objections as were interposed
to the admission of the first paper. One was an unexecuted form of contract between the defendant and one
Lavinsky, another was a written contract, signed by the
defendant and one Steinthal, and the third was a bill for

GOULED v. UNITED STATES.

298.

Opinion of the Court.

disbursements and professional services rendered by the
attorney at law to the defendant Gouled.
Of these papers, the first was seized in defendant's
office under a search warrant, dated June 17, and the other
two under a like warrant dated July 22, 1918,.each of
which was issued by a United States Commissioner on
the affidavit of an agent of the Department of Justice.
It is certified that it was averred in the first affidavit that
there were in Gouled's office "certain property, to wit:
certain contracts of the said Felix Gouled with S. Lavisky
[which] were used as a means of committing a felony, to
.
as means for the bribery of a certain officer
wit:
of the Uniled States." It is also certified that the second.
affidavit declared that Gouled had at his office "certain
letters, papers, documents and writings which . . .relate to, concern and have been used in the commission of
a felony, to wit: a conspiracy to defraud the United
States." Neither the affidavits nor the warrants are given
in full in the certificate, but no exception was taken to
the sufficiency of either.
-After the seizure of the papers, a joint indictment was
returned, as stated, against Gouled, Vaughan and the
attorney, and before trial a motion was made by Gouled,
for a return of the papers seized under the search warrmnts,
which was denied, and when the motion was renewed
at the trial, but before any evidence was introduced, it
was again denied. The denial of this motion is not assigned as error.
The contract of the defendant with Steinthal, which
was seized under the warrant, was not offered in evidence
-but a duplicate original, .obtained from Steinthal, was
admitted over the objection that the possession of the
seized original must have suggested the existence and the
obtaining of the counterpart, and that therefore the use
of it in evidence would violate the rights of the defendant
under the Fourth or Fifth Amendment. Silverthorne

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

Lumber Co. v. United States, 251 U. S. 385. The unsigned
form of contract and the attorney's bill were offered and
also admitted over the same constitutional objection.
There is no statement in the certificate of the contents
of these papers, but it is said of them only, that they
belonged to Gouled, that they were without pecuniary
value and that they constituted evidence "more or less
injurious to" the defendant.
It is apparent from this statement that to answer the
remaining four 'questions involves a consideration of the
applicable law of search warrants.
The wording of the Fourth Amendment implies that
search warrants were in familiar' use ,when the Constitution was adopted and, plainly, that when issued "upon
probable cause, supported by oath or affirmation,' and
particularly describing'the place to be searched, and the
persons or things to be seized," searches, and seizures
made under them, are to be regarded as not unreasonable,
and therefore not prohibited by the Amendment. Searches
and seizures are as constitutional under the Amendment
when made under valid search warrants as they are unconstitutional, because unreasonable,-- when made without them, -the permission of the Amendment has the
same constitutional warrant as the prohibition has, and
the definition of the former restrains the scope of the
latter. All of this is abundant-y recognized in the opinions
of the Boyd and Weeks Cases, supra, in which it is pointed
out that at the time the Constitution was adopted stolen
o? forfeited property, or property liable to duties and
concealed to avoid payment of them, excisable articles
and books required by law to be kept with respect to them,
counterfeit coin, burglars' tools and weapons, implements
-of gambling "and many other things of like character "
might be searched for in home or office and if found might
be seized, under search warrants, lawfully applied for,
issued and executed.

GOULED v. UNITED STATES.
298.

Opinion of the Court.

Although search warrants have thus been used in many
cases ever since the adoption of the Constitution, and although their use has been extended from time to .time to
meet new cases within the old rules, nevertheless it is
clear that, at common law and'as the result of the Boyd
and Weeks Cases, supra, they may not be used as a means
of gaining access to a man's house or office and papers
solely for the purpose of making search to secure evidence
to be used against him in a criminal or penal proceeding,
but that they may be resorted to only when a primary
right to such search and seizure may be found in the interest which the public or the complainant may have in the
*property to. be seized, or in the right to the possession of
it, or when a valid exercise of the police power renders
possession of the property by. the accused unlawful and
provides that it may be takon. Boyd Case, pp. 623, 624.
There is no special sanctity in papers, as distinguished
from other forms of property, to render them immune
from search and seizure, if only they fall within the scope
of the principles of the cases in which other property may
be seized, and if they be adequately described in the
affidavit and warrant. Stolen or forged papers have been
so seized, Langdon v. People, 133 Illinois, 382, and lottery.
.tickets, under a statute prohibiting their possession with
intent to sell them, Commonwealth v. Dana, 2 Metc. 329,
and we cannot doubt that contracts may be so used as
instruments or agencies for perpetrating frauds upon the
Government as to give the public an interest in themwhich would justify the search for and seizure of them,
under a properly. issued search warrant, for the purpose
of preventing further frauds.
With these principles of law in mind, we come to the
remaining questions.
The third question reads: "Are papers of no pecuniary
value but possessing evidential value against persons
presently suspected .and subsequently -indicted. under

310

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinionof the Court.

255 U. S.

Sections 37 and 215 of the United States Criminal Code,
when taken under search warrants issued pursuant to
the Act of June 15, 1917, from the house or office of the
person so suspected,-seized and taken in violation of the
4th Amendment?"
That the papers involved are of no peuuniary value is
of no significance. Many papers, having no pecuniary
value to others, are of the greatest possible value to the
owners and are property of a most important Character
(Boyd Case, supra, pp. 627, 628), and since those here
involved possessed "evidential value " against the defendant, we must assume that they were relevant to the
issue.
Restraining the questions to the papers described, and
first as to the unexecuted form of contract with Lavinsky,
a stranger to the indictment. While the contents of this
paper are not given, it is impossible to see how the Government could have such an interest in such u paper that
under the principles of law stated it would have the right
to take it into its possession to'prevent injury to the
public from its use. The Goverunent could desire its
possession only to use it as evidence against the defendant
and to search for and seize it for such purpose was unlawful.
Likewise the public could be interested in the bill of
the attorney for legal services only to the extent that it
might be used as evidence and the seizure of this also was
unlawful.
As to the contract with Steinthal, also a strangerto
the indictment. It is not difficult, as we have said, to
imagine how an executed written contract might be an
important agency or instrumentality in the bribing of a
public servant and in perpetrating fraud upon the Government so that it would have a legitimate and important
interest in seizing such a paper in order to prevent further
frauds, but the facts necessary to give this contract such
a character do not appear in the certificate. On the con-

GOULED v. UNITED STATES.

298.

Opinion of the Court.

trary, this third question recites that the papers are all
of no pecuniary, but are of evidential, value, and in the
sixth question it is recited that they are "of evidential
value only," so that it is impossible to say, on the record
before us, that the Government had any interest in it
other than as evidence against the accused, and therefore
as to all three papers the answer to the question must
be in the affirmative.
The fourth question reads: "If such papers so taken
are admitted in evidence against the person from whose
house or office they were taken, such person being then
on trial for the crime of which he was accused in the
affidavit for warrant,-is such admission in evidence a
violation of the 5th amendment?"
The same papers being involved, the answer to thisquestion must be in the affirmative for, they having been
seized in an unconstitutional search, to permit them to
be used in evidence would be, in effect, as ruled in the
Boyd Case, to compel the defendant to become a witness
against himself.
The fifth question reads: "If in the affidavit for search
warrant under Act of June 15, 1917, the party whose
premises are to be searched be charged with one crime
and property be taken under the warrant issued thereon,
-can such property so seized be introduced in evidence
against said party when on trial for a different offence?"
It has never been required that a criminal prosecutien
should be pending against a person in order to justify
search for and seizure of his property under a proper
warrant, if a case of crime having been committed and of
probable cause is made out sufficient to satisfy the law
and the officer having authority to issue it, and we see
no reason why property seized under a valid search warrant, when thus lawfully obtained by the Government,
may not be used in the prosecution of a suspected person
for a crime other than that which may have been described

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

in the affidavit as having been committed by him. The
question assumes that the property seized was obtained
on a search warrant. sufficient in form to satisfy the law,
and if the papers to which the question refers had been
of a character to be thus obtained, lawfully, it would
have been competent to use theni to prove any crime
against the accused as to which they constituted relevant
evidence.
The sixth question reads: "If papers of evidential
value only be seized under a search warrant and the party
from whose house or office they are taken be indicted;if he then move before trial for the return of said papers
and said motion is denied-is the court at trial bound in
law to inquire as to the origin of or method of procuring
said papers when. they are offered in evidence against the
party. so indicted?"
The papers being of "evidential value only" and having
been unlawfully seized, this question really is, whether, it
having been decided on a motion before trial that they
should not be returned to the defendant, the trial court,
when objection was made to their use on the trial, was'
bound to again inquire as to the unconstitutional origin
of the possession of them. It is'plain that the trial court
acted upon the rule, widely adopted, that courts in
criminal trials will not pause to determine how the possession of evidence tendered has been obtained. While
this is a ruletof great practical importance, yet, after all,
it is oniy a rule of procedure, and therefore it,
is not to be
applied as a hard and fast formula to every case, regardless
of its special circumstances. We think rather that it is a
rule to be used to secure the ends of justice under the
circumstances presented by each oa~e, and -where, in the
progress of a trial, it becomes proliable that there has
been an uicorstituticnal seizure of papers, it is the: duty
of the trial court to er tertain an cbjection to their
admission or a motion for tbeir exclusioi and to consider

AMOS v. UNITED STATES.

298.

Syllabus.

and decide the question as then presented, even where a
motion to return the papers may have bLeen denied before
trial. A rule of practice must not be allowed for any
technical reason to prevail over a constitutional right.
In the case we are considering the certificate shows
that a motion to return the papers, seized under the search
warrants, was made before-the trial, and was denied; and
that. on the trial of the case before another judge, this
ruling was treated as conclusive, although, as we have
seen, in the progress of the trial it must have become
apparent that the papers had been unconstitutionally
seized. The constitutional objection having been renewed,..
under the circumstances, the court should have inquired
as to the origin of the possession of the papers when they
were offered in evidence against the defendant.
Each question is answered, Yes.

AMOS v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
No. 114. Argued December 13, 1920.-Decided February 28, 1921.
1. When it is clear and undisputed that property used in evidence
against a defendant on a criminal trial was procured by the Government through an unconstitutional search and seizire in his home,
his petition for its return is not too late when made immediately after
the jury was sworn, and his motion to exclude the property, and testimony concerning it, from evidence should not be denied as inviting
a collateral issue. P. 316.
2. The act of a man's wife in allowing government officers to enter
his home without a warrant upon their demand for admission ftr
the purpose of making a search is held not to be a waiver of his con-

