OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Counsel for Appellant.

La. Ann. 905.

255 U. S.

The court, hence, erred in sustaining the

demurrer and dismissing the indictment.
Judgment reversed and cause remanded for further pro-

ceedings in conformity with this opinion.

LOWER VEIN COAL COMPANY. v. INDUSTRIAL
BOARD OF INDIANA ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF INDIANA.
No. 186. Argued January 27, 1921.-Decided February 28, 1921.
1. There is a sufficient distinction between coal mining and other
hazardous employments to justify a state legislature in applying
its Workmen's Compensation system to the one compulsorily,
while leaving it permissive or not applying it at all as to the
others. Pp. 146, 149.
2. Neither in this respect nor in applying to all employees of coal mine
operators, whether engaged in hazardous work or not, does the
Indiana law invade the rights of a coal company under the Fourteenth Amendment. Id.
3. Nor does such .aw offend §§ 21 and 23 of the Indiana Bill of Rights,
in failing to distinguish between those employees of coal operators
who are and those who are not in the hazardous part of the business.
P. 149.
4. The policy of workmen's compensation acts, unlike that of employers' liability acts, goes beyond the mere element of hazard,
and admits of a broader range of reasonable classification in the
public interest. P. 150.
Affirmed.

THE

case is stated in the

opinion.

Mr. William H. Thompson and Mr. Henry W. Moore,
with whom Mr. Samuel D. Miller and Mr. Frank C.,
Dailey were on the brief, for appellant.

LOWER VEIN CO. v. INDUSTRIAL BOARD.
144.

145

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. E. M. White and Mr. John A. Riddle, with whom
Mr. Ele Stansbury, Attorney General of the State of
Indiana, Mr. U. S. Lesh, Assistant Attorney General of
the State of Indiana, and Mr. Harold A. Henderson were
on the brief, for appellees.
MR.JuSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
Appellant, the Lower Vein Coal Company, is a corporation of the State of Indiana. The Industrial Board
of Indiana is a board created by an Act of the General
Assembly of Indiana, approved March 8, 1915, known as
"The Indiana Workmen's Compensation Act." The
personal appellees are members of the board.
This suit was brought by the Coal Company to enjoin
the Industrial Bbard, the Governor and Attorney General
of the State, from enforcing in any manner § 18 of the
Workmen's Compensation Act of the State, as amended
by the General Assembly in 1919, from asserting that
plaintiff is compelled to operate under the Compensation
Act, from hearing any claim for compensation asserted
by any employee of the plaintiff so long as plaintiff elects
not to come within the provisions of the act, from making any award to any injured employee, or his or her dependents, during such time, and from doing any other
act or. thing prejudicial to the rights of the plaintiff, so
*long as itelects not to be bound by the act.
The grounds for this relief were set forth in a complaint of' considerable length to which the defendants
separately and severally answered. After trial of the
issues thus presented, the District Court entered its decree
dismissing the bill for want of equity. This appeal was
then prosecuted.
The Compensation Act is very long and declares its
purposes to be to promote the prevention of industrial

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

accidents; to cause provision to be made for adequate
medical and surgical care for injured employees in the
course of their employment; to provide methods of in-*
suring the payiment of such compensation; to create an
Industrial Board for the administration of the act and to
prescribe the powers and duties of such board; to abolish
the State Bureau of Inspection, and provide for the
transfer to the Industrial Board of certain rights, powers
and duties of the Bureau of Inspection.
The original act passed in 1915 was elective and left
employer and employee the option of rejecting its terms
with certain exceptions. It was amended in 1917, and
railroad employees engaged in train service were exempted
from
provisions.
Theitsamendment
of 1919 made the act mandatory as
to all coal mining companies of the State and its political
divisions and as to municipal corporations. .To all other
employers the act remains permissive. They may elect
to operate under its provisions. Railroad employees
engaged in train service are not within them.
The sole question presented is the validity of § 18 as
amended, that is, the compulsion of coal companies to
the operation of the act, while to other employers it is
permissive, or does not apply at all. The grounds of
attack upon it are that it violates the due process clause
and the equal protection of the laws clause of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States and §§ 21 and 23 of the Indiana Bill of Rights.
Specifically, the question is, as the Coal Company expresses it, "whether the Indiana General Assembly may
pass a general compensation law, applicable to all employers within the State, and make it compulsory as to
one hazardous employment, and elective as to all others
(many equally as hazardous) except railroad employees
in train service to which it does Rot apply at all." And
the insistence is "that such a classification rests upon no

LOWER VEIN CO. v. INDUSTRIAL BOARD.
144.

147

Opinion of the Court.

sound or just basis," and hence is inimical to the Constitution of the United States and that of Indiana.
The principle of law involved and the power of a State
to distinguish and classify objects in its legislation have
been too often declared, too abundantly and variously
illustrated, to need repetition and we pass immediateiy
to the contention of counsel. It is that the act is addressed to hazardous employments, and where in employments that character exists, sameness exists, and a law
which ignores such sameness discriminates in its operation
and offends the Constitution of the United States. It
may be that the Coal Company does not contend for so
broad a principle but may assert protection by a comparison of its business with other businesses equally
hazardous, or even more hazardous than coal mining,
and that necessarily the exemption from the law of the
businesses so compared taints it with illegal discrimination. To support and justify the comparison, statistics
of accidents are given in the complaint, and in the number of accidental injuries coal mines are made to run fifth.
Notwithstanding those other companies may go in or
out of the law-coal mining companies must stay.
The answer replies with counter assertions and statistics
and a detail of the methods of coal mining and what those
methods cause of accidents to the miners, and to these
are added, it is said, the risks that come from the generation of noxious and explosive gases. And there is evidence 'in the case addressed to the conflicting statistics
and the conclusions to be deduced from them which occupies about ninety-three pages of the record. In this
evidence, occupations and businesses are compared with
estimates of accidents in each, and their character, severity and consequences, fatal and otherwise. There is also
testimony of the wages that mine workers get and of
their prosperity, and that they have a legal department
and paid attorneys. And there is averment and testimony.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

of two organizations of mine owners who retain officers
and attorneys to defend suits and secure releases from
personal injury claims.
The length and character of the reports and tables of
statistics preclude summary. It may be conceded that
different deductions may be made from them, but they
and the controversies over them and what they justified
or demanded of remedy were matters for the legislative
judgment, and that judgment is not open to judicial review. Indeed, there may be a comprehension of effects
and practical influences that can not be presented to a
court and measured by it, and which it may be the duty
of government to promote or resist, c;, deemed advisable
to do so. Degrees of policies, if they have bases, are not
for our consideration, and the bases cannot be judged of
by abstract speculations or the controversies of opinion.
Legislation is impelled and addressed to concrete conditions deemed or demonstrated to be obstacles to something
better, and the better, it may be, having attainment
or prospect in different occupations (we say occupations
as this case is concerned with them) dependent in the
legislative consideration upon their distinctions in some
instances, upon their identities in others, and, as the case
may be, associated or separated in regulation. And this
is the rationale of the principle of classification and of the
cases which are at once the results and illustrations of it.
There are facts of- especial, pertinence that make' the
principle apply in the present case and justify the legislation of the State. That coal mining has peculiar conditions has been -quite universally recognized and declared. It has %beenrecognized and declared by this
court and is manifested in the laws of the States where
coal mining obtains., There is something in this universal
sense and its impulse to special legislation--enough certainly to remove such legislation from the charge of being
an unreasonable or arbitrary exercise of power.

LOWER VEIN CO. v. INDUSTRIAL BOARD.
144.

149

Opinion of the Court.

The action of the Coal Company indicates that it
considered the coal business distinctive. Other businesses,
though according to the Coal Company's assertion as
hazardous as coal mining, accepted the law; the Coal
Company and other coal companies rejected it. To this,
of course, the coal companies were induced by comparison
of advantages, but the inducements to reject the legislation might well have been the inducement to make it
compulsory. At any rate, there is, taking that and all
other matters into consideration, ground for the legislative
judgment expressed in the amendment of 1919 under
consideration, that is, § 18 as -amended. And the fact is
to be borne in mind that there axe 30,000 employees in
'the State engaged in coal mining.
The Coal Company further contends that the law includes within its terms all the Company's employees
whether engaged m the hazardous part of its business or
not so engaged. In other words, it asserts that the conditions of those who work undergound may justify the
law but do not justify its application to those who work
above ground. The contention has a certain speciousness but cannot be entertained. It commits the law and
its application to distinctions that might be very confusing
in its administration and subjects it and the controversies
that may 'arise under it to various tests of facts; and this
against the same Company. The contention is answered in effect by Booth v. Indiana, 237 U. S. 391.
Appellant invokes against the law §§ 21 and 23 of the
Indiana Bill of Rights which respectively provide that
no man's property or particular services shall be taken
without just compensation, nor, except in the case of the
State, without compensation being first -assessed and
tendered, nor shall there be a grant of privileges or immunities to any citizen or class of citizens that shall not
equally belong to all citizens.
Appellant, however, while admitting, indeed citing

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

cases to show, that the classification of objects of legislation under the. Bill of Rights of the State has the same
bases of power and purpose as the classification of objects under the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States, yet contends that the Supreme
Court of the State has strictly construed the Bill of Rights
of the'State, and has observed a precision in classification
not required or practiced in the application of the Fourteenth Amendment. Citing for this IndianapolisTraction
Co. v. Kinney, 171 Indiana, 612, 617; Cleveland, etc., Ry.
Co. v. Foland, 174 Indiana, 411; Richey v.. Cleveland, etc.,
Ry. Co., 176 Indiana, 542, at p. 558.
These cases were constructions of the Employers'
Liability Act of the State. It was held in. Indianapolis
Tractioii Co.* v. Kinney, supra, that that act was. constitutional as to railroads because it related "to the
peculiar hazards inherent in the use and operation of"
them, and only applied to employees operating trains.
It is the contention of the Coal Company that it is a
deduction from that decision and the others cited, which
may be said to be of the same effect, that .thEre must be a
difference observed between employees of coal mining
companies as they are or are not engaged in the hazardous
part of the business, and. as that distinction is not observed in the Compensation Act, it infringes the Bill of
Rights of the State, because, it is made compulsory "upon
-coal mining companies with respect to their employees
not engaged in the hazardous part of the business, and as
to all other private business enterprises withim the State,
except. railroad employees in train service, which are excluded, it is purely optional."
• The argument in support of the contention is that the
act requires all employees in the coal mining business to
be paid compensation under the act whether employed
above ground or under ground, that is, whether hazardously employed or otherwise, whereas, in the cited cases,

SILVER KING CO. v. CONKLING CO.
144.

Syllabus.

it is insisted, the court considered such employment as a
material distinction and that legislation vhich disregarded it would have unconstitutional discrimination.
The contention _only has strength by regarding 'employers' liability acts and workmen's compensation acts
as practically identical in the public policy respectively
involved in them and in effect upon employer and employee. This we think is without foundation. They both
provide for reparation of injuries to employees but differ
in manner and effect, and there is something more in .a
compensation law than the element of hazard, something
that gives room for the power of classification which a
legislature may exercise in its judgment of what is necessary for the public welfare, to which we have adverted,
and which cannot be pronounced arbitrary because it
may be disputed and "opposed by argument and opinion
of serious strength." German Alliance Insurance Co. v.
Kansas, 233 U. S. 389; International Harvester Co. v.
Missouri, 234 U. S. 199.

Decree affirmed.

SILVER KING COALITION MINES COMPANY v.
CONKLING: MINING COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO AND APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF
APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
Nos. 158, 187. Argued January 19, i921.-Decided February 28, 1921.

1. Monuments prevail over courses and distances. P. 162.
2. A patent which describes a-lode mining claim by courses and distances, but which also calls for monuments at the first two comers,
and refers to the other two turning-points as "corner No. 3" and
"corner No. 4," is subject to interpretation as calling for monuments
at all four comers, and opens the door to field notes showing such

