OCTOBER TERM, -1920.
Argument for Appellant.

255 U. S.

EL BANCO POPULAR :DE ECONOMIAS Y PRESTAMOS DE SAN JUAN, P. R., v. WILCOX.
APPEAL. FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.
No. 91.- Argued November 12, 1920.-Dec'led February 28, 1921.
1. The Act of 'January 28, 1915, c. 22, 38 Stat. 803, amending the
Judicial Code so as to provide review of judgments of the United
States Court of Porto Rico partly in this court and partly in the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the First Circuit, should be construed
with reference to the principles of distributing appellate jurisdiction
established by the Judiciary-Act of 1891. P. 74.
2. Held, that a judgment which 'previously would have been reviewable in this court only because of pecuniary amount (Jud. Code,
§ 244) but which, under the Act of 1915,went directly to the Circuit
Court of Appeals, could not be brought here by appeal from that
court, although not among those enumerated as final by Jud. Code,
§ 128. Id.
Appeal to review 255 Fed. Rep. 442, dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
THIS was an appeal frnm a decree of the Circuit Court
of Appeals for the First Circuit reversing'a decision of the.
United States District Court for Porto Rico, which required the appellee to pay the appellant $9,631.92, the
amount due on certain mortgages of real estate in Porto
Rico, the unpaid principal of which amounted to $6,300.00,
and, in default of suuh payment, directed a foreclosure.
The plaintiff bank was a Porto Rico corporation, and the
-defendant a citizen of the United States.

Mr. Boyd B. Jones, with whom Mr. Philip N. Jones
was on the briefq, for appellant:
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals in the present
case is not final, first, because the jurisdictioin of the District Court was not "dependent entirely upon the opposite
parties to the suit or controversy being aliens and citizens

EL BANCO POPULAR &c. v. WILCOX..
Opinion of the Court.

72.

of the United States or citizens of different States" in
that, by the Act of March 2, 1901, its jurisdiction existed
by the nere fact of the defendant's being a citizen of the
United States, and, second, because the parties to this
suit are not an alien on the one side and a citizen of the
United States on the other, inasmuch as the plaintiff was
a citizen of Porto Rico, Martinez v. La Asociacion De
Senoras, 213 U. S.20; Barrow S. S. Co. v. Kane, 170 U. S.
100; and was neither a citizen of a Toreign country, De
Lima v. Bidwell, 182 U. S. 1; Porto Rico v. Castillo, 227

U. S. 270; nor a citizen of a State, Barney v. Baltimore, 6
Wall. 280.
It therefore follows that this court has jurisdiction of
the appeal under Jud. Code, § 241.
The contention that, under §§ 128 and 241, Jud. Code,
appeals to the Supreme Court are authorized only in
those cases which might have been appealed directly
from the District Court, is untenable. Korbly v. Springfield Institutionfor Savings, 245 U. S.330.
The question is purely one of construction, and the
plain language of the statutes is not controlled by any

of the considerations urged against it.
Mr. Ben A. Matthews, with whom Mr. Jose R. F. Savage
was on the briefs, for appellee.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WITE

delivered the opinion of the

court.
In a suit in the United States District Court for Porto
Rico, where the- appellant, a bank incorporated in Porto

Rico, was plaintiff, and the appellee, a citizen of the United
States, was defendant, a final decree in favor of the bank
was rendered, and from that decree, the defendant took
the case to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the First
Circuit.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255, U. S.

Upon a reversal of the decree in that court, the bank
brought this appeal, and, upon a motion to dismiss for
want of jurisdiction, we are- required to determine its
right to do so. The appellant, not denying that the jurisdiction of this court to review judgments or decrees of
the District Court for Porto Rico in cases such as the
present one was taken away by the act conferring upon
the Circuit Court of Appeals of the First Circuit appellate
power over that subject (Act of January 28, 1915, c. 22,
§ 1; id., § 2, amending §§ 128 and 238, Jud. Code; id.,
§ 3, repealing § 244, Jud. Code; 38 Stat. 803, 804), nevertheless insists that, by virtue of the jurisdiction of this
court to review judgments and decrees of the circuit courts
of appeals, the power taken away is in substance preserved
if only successive appeals be resorted-to. This-rests upon
the proposition that, as the act transferring the jurisdiction from this to the circuit court of appeals brought
this case within the jurisdiction of the latter court, it
hence subjected the decree in this case to the test of
finality and the right of review provided in § 128 of-the
Judicial Code controlling those subjects. While, if the
section be considered superficially, the argument is plausible, its unsoundness becomes apparent by the briefest
examination of the context and genesis of the section.
Virtually every word of the section relied upon to establish that the decree was not final and to justify the
asserted right to review it in this court depends upon
limitations expressed in the Judiciary Act of 1891 and
which were intended to carry out the great purposes of
that act, to distribute the appellate power of the courts
of'the United States in the proper sense, and were therefore inapplicable to the Porto Rican court. To illustrate,
one of the broad distinctions made in the distribution
of appellate power under the Act of 1891 depended upon
whether the jurisdiction of the federal court as fixed by
law was exclusively called into play bec4use of diverse

EL BANCO POPULAR &c. v. WILCOX.
72.

Opinion of the Court.

citizenship, in the constitutional sense, or whether the
jurisdiction was invoked because, aside from diverse
citizenship, there existed a federal right or question; a
judgment being in one case made final in one court where
it was not in the other, and also being subject to one
method of xeview in the one and a different in the other 4
Thus the proposition is, that, because by act of Congress
jurisdiction was conferred upon the circuit court of appeals to review a judgment of the Porto Rican court,
therefore by the mere exertion of that jurisdiction the
Porto Rican judgment was brought under the control,
as to finality and review, of provisions having no possible
application or relation to it.
The act of Congress by which jurisdiction was conferred upon the Circuit Court of Appeals for the First
Circuit additionally makes clear the misconception upon
which the argument rests. At the time that act was
passed the jurisdiction of this court to review the Porto
Rican court embraced two classes of cases, the one involving enumerated federal questions, in the true sense, and
the other where the power depended upon the amount
involved. § 244, Jud. Code. But the transferring act
did not divest this court of appellate jurisdiction over the
Porto Rican court, but on the contrary preserved its authority, although in some respects limiting and in others
enlarging it, and transferred to the circuit court of appeals appellate jurisdiction in all cases other than those
in which jurisdiction by direct appeal was conferred upon
this court, unless otherwise provided by law,-a result
which clearly negates that it was contemplated that a
right to successive appeals should exist, and which moreover indisputably shows that it was the purpose of Congress not to give the circuit court of appeals an authority
which it would not exert compatibly with the distribution
of federal appellate judicial power -made by the Act of
1891.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion, of the Court.

255 U. S.

Indeed, we might well have spared ourselves the duty
of expressing the considerations we have stated since the
proposition relied upon is virtually foreclosed by the
ruling in Inter-Island Steam Navigation Co. v. Ward, 242
U. S. 1. There a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals of the Ninth Circuit, affirming a judgment of the
Supreme Court of Hawaii, was brought here by appeal
on the theory of the right to successive appeals now relied
upon. Coming to consider whether there was 'jurisdiction to entertain the appeal, and pointing out a reservation
of jurisdiction in this court made by the act transferring
authority to the Circuit Court of Appeals of the Ninth
Circuit to review the Hawaiian court, similar in character
to that made with reference to the Porto Rican court which
we have previously noticed, it was held that there was
no jurisdiction in this court, (a) because of the inferences
properly to be drawn from the reservation in the act of
Congress just referred to; (b) because of the impossibility
of supposing that jurisdiction was taken away from this
court and yet virtually restored by successive appeals,
and (c) because of the difference between the systems
of judicature obtaining as to the courts of the United
States under the Constitution and those of Hawaii, making the right to review in the one depend upon legislative
limitations not governing as to the other.
It follows from what we have said and from the principles sustained by the ruling in the case just stated that
we are without jurisdiction to entertain the appeal which
is before us, and it must be and is, therefore,
Dismissedfor want of jurisdiction.

