OCTOBER TERM,' 1920.
Syllabus.

255 U. S.

is adequate ground for his return as a fugitive from
justice under § 5278, Rev. Stats., enacted to give effect
to Art., IV, §2, of the Constitution. Whether in fact he
was a fugitive from justice was for the determination
of the Governor of New Jersey. The warrant of arrest
issued in compliance with the demand of the Governor
of Massachusetts shows that he found appellant to be a
fugitive; and this conclusion must stand unless clearly
overthrown, which appellan't has not succeeded in doing.
To be regarded as a fugitive from justice it is not necessary
that one shall have left the State in which the crime is
alleged to have been committed for the very purpose of
avoiding prosecution, but simply that, having committed
there an act which by the law of the State constitutes a
crime, he afterwards has departed from its jurisdiction
and when sought to be prosecuted is found within the
territory of another State. Roberts v. Reilly, 116 U. S.
80, 95-97; Munsey v. Clough, 196 U. S. 364, 372-375;
Appleyard-v. Massachusetts, 203.U. S. 222, 227, et seq.;
McNichols v. Pease, 207 U. S. 100, 108-109; Biddinger v.
Commissionerof Police, 245 U. S. 128, 133-134.
Fital order affirmed.

PORT OF SEATTLE v. OREGON & WASHINGTON
RAILROAD COMPANY ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON.

No. 107.

Argued December 6, 1920.-Decided January 31, 1921.

1. The navigable waters in Washington, and the lands under them,
passed to the State, upon its creation, in full proprietary ownership,
subject to the federal control over navigation. P. 63.

2. In conveying tide lads, the State is free'to grant them with rights

PORT OF SEATTLE v. OREGON & W. R. R.
56.

57

Syllabus.

in the adjoining water area, or to withhold such rights completely;
the effect of the conveyance in'this regard is determined by the local
law. P. 63.
3. Under the Washington law, a grantee from the State of uplandson-a natural, navigable waterway, takes only to high-water mark,
without riparian or littoral rights. P. 64.
4. So, too, a grant by the State of a described parcel of tide land,
conveys no rights in or over adjoining tide land or water, these being
withheld in order that the State may not be hampered in developing
waterways and harbors in the public interest. P. 65.
5.The same rule applies to a conveyance of tide lands reclaimed by
the State by filling, and abutting on a natural waterway confined
by such reclamation and deepened by dredging. P. 67.
6. The State of Washington, through the Port of Seattle, filled in a
large area of tide land up to bulkheads confining a waterway; dredged
a channel in the waterway leaving shoals on either side of it; divided
the land into numbered blocks and lots, and conveyed lots abutting
on the waterway by*a deed describing them by their numbers, without mention of the waterway or of water rights, but referring to a
plat on which the boundaries of the lots were set forth, with lineal
measurements, and on which the waterway was also shown, and
within it, on each side and some distance- from the bulkheads, a
line marked "Pierhead Line." He~d: (1) That, in view of the
policy of the State to. retain control over navigable waters, an intention to convey with the lots a right to wharf out to the line and
thus gain access to the fairway, could not be implied, even assuming
.-that there was no law at the time under which permission to do so
could be granted by the state harbor commissioners. (2) That the
establishment of the pierhead line by the United States. did not
create a right to wharf-out, as against the State; and, smble, under
the state law, its presence on a plat had no other effect than as
*apublication of the federal action. P. 67.
7. A municipal corporation of a State is a citizen of that State, within
,the rules governing removal of causes to the District Court. P. 70.
8. The right to remove a suit brought by a municipality to quiet the
title of the State to a navigable waterway against an abutting land
owner claiming a right to wharf out, cannot be denied on the ground
that the State is the real party in interest, where the municipality
has an independent financial interest in the controversy. Id.
Reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.

58

Opinion of the Court.

255'U. S.

Mr. Leander T. Turner, with whom Mr. HaroldPreston
ard Mr. 0. B. Thorgrimson were on the briefs, for appellant.

Mr. W. H. Bogle, with whom Mr. F. T. Merritt and Mr.
Lawrence Bogle were on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the

court.
The main question in this case is-whether the Oregon
& Washington Railroad Company acquired, as owner ofland adjoining East Waterway in the Port of Seattle, the
right to build in the waterway piers, wharves, and other
structures over which it would secure access from itsland to the navigable channel. The question arises in a
suit to quiet the title of the State which was brought
against the Railroad in a state court of Washington, in
1917, br the Port, a municipal corporation,' created by
the laws of Washington. J. F. Duthie & Co., lessees of
the Railroad's land, were joined as defendants; but they
have no substantial interest in the controversy; and their
peculiar rights do not require consideration. The case
1C.92, of-the Laws of 1911, p. 412, as amended by Laws of 1913, c. 62,
p. 202. It has power, among other things, to improve navigable and
non-navigable waters of the United States and of the State within the
port district; "to create, and iuiprove for harbor purposes new waterways within the port district; to regulate and control all such waters
within the limits of such port district so far and to the full extent that
this state can and hereby does grant the same, and remove obstructions
therefrom; to straighten, widen, deepen and otherwise improve any
andall waters; . . C to execute leases of all lands, wharves, docks
and property .owned and controlled by said port district upon such
terms as the port commission may deem proper." It exercises also
powers similar to those exercised by counties including the power to
sue and be sued. State v. Bridges, 87 Wash. 260. The State did not
transfer to the port districts its ownership in the beds and shores of
navigable waters.

PORT OF SEATTLE v. OREGON & W. R. R.
56.

59

Opinion of the Court.

was removed to the District Court of the United States
by petition of the Railroad which is an Oregon corporation;
and a motion to remand was denied. Upon full hearing
on the merits a decree was rendered dismissing the bill.
The case comes here by direct appeal of the Port under
§ 238 of the Judicial Code, it having been contended by
the Railroad and held by the lower court that the validity
of c. 168 of the Laws of Washington of 1913, p. 582, is
involved, and that its provisions violate the contract
clause and the due process clause of the Federal Constitution. The following facts are material:
When the State of Washington was admitted into the
Union' there lay in front of the City of Seattle extensive
tide lands in the area now comprised within the limits
of the municipal corporation known as Port of Seattle.
Under appropriate legislation of the State this area has
been developed as a port. Waterways have been' established and in part dredged; tide lands abutting upon
the waterways have been filled, platted as city blocks and
'laid out with streets; and lots therein have been sold for
business and other purposes. Among the waterways
so established is that known as East Waterway, which
cohnects Duwamish River with Elliott Bay, an arm of
Puget Sound. East Waterway, as established, has 'at
the point in question, a width of 1,000 feet. The bed
of the Waterway w'as in its natural state tide land. The
750 feet of the waterway which lie in the centre have bean
dredged to a depth at mean low tide of from 26 to 30 feet.
The rest of the waterway, being that portion which extends on either side for a distance of 125 feet from the
bulkhead of the filled land to the fairway, is of varying
depth and is not navigable by large vessels. The bed of
'the waterway within these 125 feet areas 'slopes from the
bulkhead to the line of the fairway." It is. exposed at low
tide ordinarily at points about thirty-six feet from the
"bulkhead.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

The Railroad's parcel here in question is filled land adjoining the .west side of this waterway. The tract is a
'part of Block 393, Seattle Tide Lands, shown on a plat
duly filed with the County Auditor in 1895, and was acquired from the State by the Railroad's predecessors in
title prior to 1907. The deeds by which the State conveyed
the land do not in words purport to grant any right in
the waterway; 'nor is mention made of East Waterway

either in the granting clause or elsewhere in. the deed.'
On the plat, by which the land was sold, the boundaries of
the block, and of the several lots comprised within it,
are set forth learly -and lineal measurements are given.
East Waterway. is shown on the plat and, on each side
of the waterway, a broken line.called "Pierhead line," is
marked at a distance of 250 feet from the bulkhead. It
is alleged by the Railroad that ithis pierhead line, es-

tablished by the Wat Department as prescribing the
limits beyond which structures obstructing navigation
would not be permitted in the waterway, had been

adopted also by the state authorities. In 1914, by joint
action of the War Department and of the state authorities,
'The form of the deed is as follows:
Eirst'party does hereby grant, bargain, sell and convey unto the
lecond harty, and to his heirs and assigns, the followingl'described
tide lands of the first class, situated in front of the City of Seattle,
King County, Washington, to-wit:
Lots one to nine, inclusive, block 393, as shown on the official map
of Seattle Tide Lands, filed with the Board of State Land Commissioners at Olympia, Washington, March 15, 1895.
Subject, however, to any lien or liens that may arise or be created
inconsequence of an act of the Legijlature of the State of Washington,
entitle "An Act prescribing the ways in which waterways for the
uses of navigation may be excavated by private cantracti providing
for. liens upon tide and shore lands belonging to the State, granting
rights of way across lands belonging to the SUte," approved March 9,
1893.
- Witneis the seal of the state aflnuw
HENitY McBR E,

Gowmrori

PORT OF SEATTLE v. OREGON. & W. R. R.
56.

61

Opinion of the Court.

and with the assent of abutting owners, the pierhead line
was moved back to a point 125"feet from thi bulkhead,
leaving the fairway in tbe centre 756 feet, as above stated,
instead 6f 500 feet as originally indicated on the plat.
The rights claimed by the Railroad are limited to this
125-feet area.
Chapter 168 of the'Laws of Washington 1913, p. 582"'.
provides: that:
"Whenever, in any waterways created under the law s
of'the State of Washington,. the government of the UnitedStates shall have'established pierhed, lines in said waterway at any distance from the boundaries thereof established by the state, no structure shall be allowed in the
strip of waterway.between the boundary and the nearest
pierhead line except by the consent of the state land commissioner and upon plans .-approved and terms and-conditions fixed by him, and then only for such period of use
as shall be designated b him,. but any permit shall not
extend for a, longer period than thirty (30) years: Provided, however, That the ownrsr of land abutting upqn
either side of any such waterway shall have the right,
if application be made therefor within a period of nineity
(90) days following the date when this act shall go into
a permit authorizing the
effect, to obtain
.
improvement and use of such area under conditions to be
prescribed by the state authorities upon the payment of
an annual rental dependent in amount upon the assessed
value of an equal area of the abutting land.
The Railroad failed to apply for such a pormit. Asserting the rights above stated, it leased a part of its land to
J. F. Duthie & Co. for a shipbuilding. and manufacturing
plant, and purpdrted 'to authorize the construction of
wharvs, piers and other- structures upon the adjoining.
water area up to the 125-foot pierhead line. By the Act
of 1913 the control over the waterways therein conferred
upon land commissioners is to be exercised -in port dis.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

tricts by the port commissioners. This bill to enjoin such
use of the waterway by the Railroad and its lessees and
to quiet title was, therefore, brought by the Port of
Seattle.
The decree entered by the lower court-declared in substance (1) that the State has no proprietary interest in
the water area between the bulkhead and the pierhead
line; 2) that it is not entitled to. lease the same or otherwise to deprive the Railroad of access to the fairway; (3)
that c. 168 of the laws of 1913 in so far as it provides for
such leasing violates the Federal Constitution; (4) that
the Railroad has no proprietary interest in the waterway,
but as owner of the abutting lots is entitled to access to
the deep or navigable waters "subject to proper governmental supervision." The decree declared further
that the State had never established harbor lines in the
waterway, and expressly recited that the court does not
determine whether or not the State now has power to
establish harbor lines, nor what the effect might be of
hereafter establishing them.
The main question presented for our decision is whether
the Railroad acquired, in connection with the lots of filled
land abutting on the waterway, a private riparian or
littoral right to construct wharves, docks and piers on
this 125-feet area, in order to provide for itself, as owner
of the land, and for those claiming under it, convenient
access to the fairway for-purposes of navigation and commerce. Tle Port contends that the Railroad acquired
no such right, nor any private right whatsoever, in any
part of the adjoining waterway; and that the State is free
either to use this portion of East Waterway directly for
purposes of navigation, agt the present fairway is used,
or to use it as a part of the harbor; and that, since it is
also the proprietor of the tide land, under this water
area, it has the full right to develop it, or authorize its
developnment by others, -through the erection of wharves,

PORT OF SEATTLE v.'OREGON & W. R. R.
56.

63

Opinion of the Court.

piers, docks or other structures in' aid of navigation and
commerce; and to charge a rental for the privilege.
First. The right of the United States in the navigable
waters within the several States is limited to the control
thereof for purposes of navigation. Subject to that right
Washington became, upon its organization as a State,
the owner of the navigable waters within its boundaries
and of the land under the same. Weber v. Boardof Harbor
Commissioners, 18 Wall. 57. By § 1 of Article XVII *'f
-its constitution the State asserted its ownershp in the
bed and shore, "up to and- inicluding the line of ordinary
.high tide in waters where the tide ebbs and flows." The"
extent of the State's ownership -of the land is more accurately defined by the decisions of the highest court, as
being the land below highwater mark or the meander
line, whichever of these lines is the lower.I The character
of the State's ownership in the land and in the waters is
the full proprietary right. The State, being 'the absolute
owner of. the tide lands and of the waters over them, is
free in conveying tide lands either to girant With them
rights in the. adjoining water area or to completely withhold all such rights. Whether a conveyance made by
the. State of land abutting upon navigable -water does.
confer upon the grantee any right or interest in those
waters -or in' the land under the same, is a matter wholly
of local law. Shively v. Bowlby, 152,U. S. 1. Upon such
questions the provisions of the constitution and statutes
of the State and the decisions of its highest court are
accepted by us as conclusive. St. Anthony Falls Water
Power Co. v. St. Paul Water Commissioners,, 168 U. S.
349. The precise question presented here is whether the
See Scurry v.- Jones, 4 Wash. 468; Cogswell v. Forrest, 14 Wash. 1;
Washougal & La Camas Transportation Co. v. Dalles, Portland &
Astoria Navigation Co., 27 Wash. 490; Johnson v. Brown, 33 Wash.
588; Van Siclen v. Muir, 46 Wash. 38, 40; Brace &. lergert Mill Co. v.

State, 49 Wash. 326, 331.

OCTOBER TERIA,

1920.

Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

State by executing the deed of the land, which in fact
adjoined East Waterway, conveyed: rights in that waterway. That question is, in essence, one of construction
of the deed taken in connection with the plat therein
referred to.
Second. Under the law of Washington (which differs
in this respect from the law generally prevailing elsewhere) a conveyance by the State of uplands abutting upon
a naturat navigable waterway grants no right of any kind
either in land below highwater mark, Eisenbach v. Hatfield, 2 Washington, 236; or in, to, or over the water,
Van Siclen v. Muir, 46 Washington, 38, 41; except the
limited preferential right conferred by statute Upon the
owner of the upland, to purchase the shoreland, if the
State concludes to sell the same. Act of March 26, 1890,
§§ 11 and 12, Laws of Washington 1889-1890, p. 505.
The grantee of the upland cannot complain of another
who erects a structure below highwatei- mark, Muir v.
Johnson, 49 Washington, 66. He does not acquire any
right of access over the intervening land and water area
to the navigable channel, Lownsdale V. Grays Harbor
Boom Co., 54 Washington, 542, 550, 551. So complete
is the absence of riparian or littoral rights that the State
may-subject to the superior rights of the United States
-wholly divert a navigable stream, sell the river bed
and yet have impaired in so doing no right of the upland
owners whose land is thereby separated from all contact
with the water. Newell v. Loeb, 77 Washington, 182, 193194; Hill v. Newell, 86 Washington, 227, 228.1
'In some States the shore between the high and the low water mark
belongs to the private owner of the upland and as such owner he has
all rights not inconsistent with the public's rights incident to navigation.
In other States, although the land below high water mark belongs
to the State; the private owner of the upland has the right of access
over it to the navigable channel a.li the right to'use the State's land
in connection therewith. See 27 -R. C. L., §§ 273-279, 284. But, in

PORT OF SEATTLE v. OREGON & W.. R. R.
56.

65

Opinion of the Court.

Third. The Railroad admits that such are the rights
of a grantee from the State, where it is the upland which
is conveyed. But it contends that a different rule applies
where the sale is of tide lands.. No basis for the distinction
can be -found either in the decisions of the highest court
of the State or in reason. Since the upland owner has
been denied riparian rights in deference to the asserted
right of the State. to control unhampered the course and
development of navigable waters, the State's right must
be superior also to the claim of the tide-land owner. For
the assertion of titfle in the State was obviously, made in
order that it might not be hampered in developing waterways and harbors in the manner and to the extent that
the public interest should from time to time demand.
Such development obviously includes harbor facilities,
like piers, docks and wharves, as well as adequate channels.
Compare State v. Bridges, 87 Washington, 260. The
proprietary right of the State over navigable waters and
of the soil thereunder is neither exhausted nor impaired
by making a sale of a tract of tide land, be it the parcel
nearest theupland or some other. The State may in one
year fill and selL the hundred feet of tide lands nearest the
upland and in the next year fill. and sell the parcel beyond.
Washington, it is "uniformly held that there is no riparian right in
the owner of lands bordering on the navigable waters of -the state,"
and that the State retains the proprietary right to the soil bel6w high
water mark.. State v. Sturtevant, 76 Wash. 158, 163; Brace & Hergert
,Mill Co. v. State, 49 Wash. 326, 331. The language of some earlier
cases, apparently in conflict with lese views, was explained in'tulet
v..Wishkah Boom Cb., .54 Wash. 510, 517. The cases referred togo-no
further than to hold that fhe owner of uplands has a right in common
with the pfiblic to uise the streafn for navig~ation, as it flows past, his
land; and that others conducting operations upon the river may not
wilfully or negligently destroy his upland. Dawvson v, McMillan, 34
Wash. 269; Monroe' Mill Co. v. Menzel, 35 Wash. 487; Burrows v.
Grays Harbor Boom, Co., 44-Wash. 630; see also Judson v. Tide Water
Lumber Co., 51 Wash. 164'

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

Compare State v. Scott, 89 Washington, 63, 70, 72. Or it
may sell fitst the parcel more remote from the upland
and later the one immediately adjoining it, or any other.
In every case it may, in conveying the tide land, either
grant or withhold rights in the water or in the water area,
as it sees fit. When land washed by the ebb and flow of
the tide is conveyed by the State with clearly defined
boundaries, no rights of any kind beyond those boundaries
ordinarily pass under the deed. Pearl Oyster Co. v. Heuston, 57 Washington, 533. Where a tide land owner acquires rights of access to deep water it is by arrangement
with the owner of the intervening land. Compare Pioneer
Sand & Gravel Co. v. Seattle Construction& Dry Dock Co.,
102 Washington, 608.
The cases most strongly relied upon by the Railroad
do not relate to tide lands. They deal with the rights of
shoreland owners on an inland lake, the level of which
had been lowered by the Government. State v. Sturtevant,
76 Washington, 158; Puget Mill Co. v. State, 93 Washington, 128. Shore lands differ from tide lands not only in
their situation; which in many cases makes an almost
indefinita filling in of the latter a possibility, but also
in legal definition. Tide lands have a definite boundary at the line of rliean low tide; or, by later legislation,
of extreme low tide. State v. Scott, supra, pp. 68, 69. The
shore lands, on the other hand, were those "below the
line of ordinary high water and not subject to tidal flow."
They had no defined outer boundary. Accordingly when
the waters of the lake, there in question were lowered,
it became necessary to determine the ownership both of
the lands exposed and those below the new line of ordinary
high water. The court held that the outer boundary of
the shore land was the line of* navigability and that
grantees were entitled to follow that line out when it was
moved b§ act of their grantor.' The considerations which
brought the court t.o this-.result were, it is true, largely the

PORT OF SEATTLE v. OREGON & W. R. R.
56.

67

Opinion of the Court.

same which in other jurisdictions led to the recognition
of riparian rights, that is, the claim of the shore land
owner to access to deep water. But the court did not
secure this interest to the shore land owner by granting
him extraterritorial rights-i. e.riparian or littoral rights.
It did so by construing the outer boundary of his land to
be the line of navigability; holding that since the legislature had not limited the outer boundary of shore lands,
as it had done in the case of tide lands, it must have intended that the shore lands granted should extend to
the line of navigable water, in the absence of legislation
to the contrary. Compare Bilger v. State, 63 Washington, 457. The legislature confirmed this boundary, expressly restricting it to the lands to which the court had
applied it; that is shore lands not within city limits. This
doctrine can have no application to shore lands where the
property line is fixed in the deed. Arid it cannot apply
to tide lands, the dissimilarity of which to shore lands
furnished the ground for enunciating the rule.
It appears, therefore, that the law of Washington does
not recognize as appurtenant to upland, tide land or
shore land in its natural condition, rights of any sort
beyond the boundaries of the property. A right of access
to the navigable channel over intervening land, above
or below low water, must arise from a grant by the owner
of the intervening property.
Fourth. The Railroad contends that a different rule
should be applied here where we are dealing with made
land abutting on an artificial waterway. East Waterway
is not properly described as such. It is a natural waterway deepened and confined. Compare Fox River Flour
& Paper Co. v. Kelley, 70 Wisconsin, 287, 300. And obviously the mere fact that tide land conveyed has been
filled would not, by the law of Washington, confer upon
the grantee, as appurtenant to the land, riparian rights
in adjoining navigable waters. But the Railroad insist4

OCTOBER TEUM, 1920.

Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

that even if the right of access to the navigable channel
is not appurtenant to its land as a matter of riparian law,
its predecessor in title received the right by implied grant
from the State. The right, it says, "depends in the last.
analysis upon a proper construction of the grant by the
State of the abutting lots" in the light of all the circumstances. Among the most important of those, is the fact
that the whole development 'project was an artificial
creation, Land, itis urged, was artificially made up to a
bulkhead. At some distance beyond a navigable channel
was artificially created out of an unnavigable stream,
Between the bulkhead and the channel are shoals which
prevent full use of waterside lots in connection with
navigation unless wharves are erected. When the
original grant was made no provision in.the law authorized
leasing these shoals for docking purposes, but on the contrary the whole waterway was reserved by the statute
forever from oale or lease. And, finally, the plat, by
reference to Which all lots were sold, showed a pierhead
line at the point of navigable water. This situation; it
is urged, indicates that the lots were sold as part of a
completed project, that it was intended they should have
full shipping facilities, and that since the State could not
lease the shoals under then existing legislation, it must
have been the intention that abutting owners should
have the right of' access to the pierhead line. This
argument of the Railroad rests, however, upon an
assumption which is at least open to serious doubt. It
asserts that under then existing.. legislation no state
official was authorized tc permit the grantee to construct
a wharf in East-Waterway. By the constitution (Article
XV, § 1, and by Act .of March 28, 1890, p. 668) provision
had been made fotthe establishinent of harbor lines in
navigable waters. It appears from Wilson v. Oreon.
Washington Railroad.& Navigation Co.,, 71' Washington,
102,'107, to have been the practice to permit parts of the

PORT OF SEATTLE v. OREGON & W. R. R.
56.

69

Opinion of the Court.

harbor area so created to be used for the erection of piers
and wharves. East Waterway was and is one of the
navigable waters of the State. Our attention has not been
called to any statute or decision which indicates that at
the time of the original grant power to create harbor
areas in it and to grant permits to erect wharves therein
would not have been possessed by the harbor commissioners.
Even if the assumptions upon •which the arguments
rest were all true, theconclusion contended for would not
follow. Ever since the organization of the State it has been
the clearly defined policy of Washington not to grant
riparian rights in navigable waters. This policy, declared
in its constitution and expressed in careful legislation,
has been consistently enforced by its courts. A grant by
implication of the riparian right here asserted might perhaps be inferred in other jurisdictions from the circumstances stated. But in Washington such an implication
seems wholly inadmissible. If in the developmentin question it had been the intention of the State to make such a
radical departure as that for which the Railroad contends,
the intention would doubtless have been expressed by
appropriate language in the deed. But East Waterway
was not even mentioned in it. Until we are so informed
by the Supreme Court of Washington, we cannot, in the
light of the waterway history of the State, believe that
there were implications in the situation described which
without more are sufficient to indicate aa'n intention to
depart from the settled policy of the State.
So far as the pierhead lines are concerned, the Railroad
concedes that their establishment by the United States
did not create as against the State a right to wharf out.
They merely fixed the line beyond which piers might not
extend. Compare Wilson v. Oregon-WashingtonRailroad
& Navigation Co., supra, pp. 107, 108. And the power of
the United States in this respect was not exhausted by

OCTOBER TERM,' 1920.
Opinion~of the Court.

255 U. S.

its first exercise. Philadelphia Co. v. Stimson, 223- U. S.
605, 638. The lines so fixed, although acted upon by
the erection of piers, could be changed by the United
States at any time. Greenleaf Johnson Lumber Co. v.
Garrison, 237 U. &. 251. From the authorities to which
we have been directed it appears that under the laws of
the State the presence of pierhead lines on the plat could
have no effect other than as a publication of action taken
l6y the' Federal Government. In Puget Mill Co. v. State,
93 Washington, 128, decided in 1916, the power of state
officials, to establish such lines is expressly denied by
Judge Chadwick, who said:
"The use of the words 'pierhead line' on the plat prepared by the state, and in the decree, is an unfortunate
misuse of terms. The words mean nothing under our
constitution and statutes. In some of the eastern states,
we understand that 'picrhead lines' are defined, but the
constitution makers in this state were careful to avoid
the confusion that may result from the drawing of an
arbitrary line beyond which piers and docks should not be
erected by providing for an inner and an outer harbor
line with an inter-.-ening area subject to state ownership
and control.Y
It is unnecessary, therefore, for us to consider whether
on this record it is open to the Port to contend that pierhead lines were in fact never fixed by any state official.
Fifth. The Port renews here the objection thit the
case was improperly removed from the state court, Germania Insurance Co. v. Wisconsin, 119 U. S. 473; Postal
Telegraph Cable Co. v. Alabama, 155 U. S. 482; insisting
*that since the State is the owner of the bed of East Waterway, it is the real party in interest, Murray v. Wilson
DistillingCo., 213 U. S. 151; Lankford v. Platte Iron Works
Co., 235 U. S. 461;: and that it has not merely a goyernmental interest, as in Reagan v. Parmers' Loan & Trust
Co., 154 U. S. 362, 390, and in Missoun, Kansas &Teza8

PORT OF SEATTLE v. OREGON & W. R. R.
56.

71

Opinion of the Court.

Ry. Co. v. Missouri Railroad & Warehouse Commissioners,
183 U. S. 53, 60. The objection to the jurisdiction of the
District Court is clearly unsound. The Port being a
mtnicipal corporation under the laws of Washington is
a citizen of that State and could have been sued in the
federal court. Lincoln County v. Luning, 133 U. S. 529;
Chicot County v. Sherwood, 148 U. S. 529. It had both the
power and the duty to bring suit to protect the interests
here involved; and it had a direct financial interest in the
result. For c. 168 of the Laws of 1913 provides for a
payment by abutting owners, in the nature of a rental,
for the permit to use parts of the waterways in the erection
of wharves, docks or other structures; and that 75% of
such rental shall be paid to the county "for the use of
said port district." The Port has thus an independent
financial interest in this controversy; and although the
State has also an interest, suit against the Port would
not be prevented by the Eleventh Amendment. What
effect the judgment in this case will have upon the State's
interest we have no occasion to consider. Compare Tindal v. Wesley, 167 U. S. 204; Hopkins v. Clemson Agrcultura College, 221 U. S. 636.
Reversed, and the cause remanded to the District Court
for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.

