OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Syllabus.

255 U. S.

instituted on behalf of the Rock Island, that it had actively
participated in the conduct thereof, and to that end had
entered a general appearance, made it subject to further
proceedings thereon byway of cross-bill, as fully as if the
earlier action had been taken in its name as well as on its
behalf. Compare also Ex parte Gordon, 104 U. S. 515;
Globe Refining Co. v. Landa Cotton Oil Co., 190 U. S. 540;
In re Pollitz, 206 U. S. 323. If in the judgment of the
Rock Island the District Court erred in the decision of
any one or all of these questions it will have its remedy
by appeal, unless it has failed to preserve by appropriate
procedure that right of review. The same considerations
lead to a denial also of the writ of mandamus. Ex parte
Roe, 234 U. S. 70.
Rule dischargedand petition dismissed.
MR, JUSTICE DAY took no part in the consideration or
the decision of this case.

ARMOUR & COMPANY ET AL. v. CITY OF DALLAS
ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 149.

Argued January 18, 1921.-Decided February 28, 1921.

1. Where a city and a railway company agreed for the removal of the
railway's main tracks from a busy street to another location, to
promote the public safety and convenience and the operation of
the railway, and owners of abutting property alleged that the change,
by depriving them of their switch connection, would largely destroy
the value of their expensive plant, in violation of their constitutional
rights of contract and property, held, that the case was not one for

ARMOUR & CO. v. DALLAS.
280.

281

Argument for Appellants.

relief by injunction, and that the plaintiffs had a full ant complete:
remedy in' an action at law for damages. P. 286.
2. The District Court should not enjoin the performance of a city's
contract, as void under the city charter, where the same question
is involved in a taxpayer's suit, instituted in the state court by the
same parties and still pending, in which a temporary injunction
had been granted and is still in force. P. 286.
Affirmed.

Tis was a direct appeal from a decree of the District
Court which dismissed, upon the merits, a bill brought
by the appellants to enjoin, upon constitutional grounds,
the removal of certain railway tracks in the City"of Dallas. The facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Francis Marion Etheridge, with whom Mr. Ralph W.
Shauman, Mr. Samuel B. Cantey, and Mr. Joseph Manson
McCormick were on the brief, for appellants:
Their argument on the principal point decided was
expressed as follows:
The f~ct, if it be a fact, that the continued use of Pacific
Avenue by the Railway Company by the running of a
hundred heavy trains over it every twenty-four hours
is incompatible with. the safety and convenience of the
public, constitutes no answer to the proposition that the
restricted use of Pacific Avenue by the maintenance and
operation of the switch track serving appellants' plant

will not operate injuriously upon the public interest.
There is not a scintilla of evidence in the record showing
or tending to show that such iestricted use of Pacific
Avenue will in, the least, interfere with the safety or convenience of the public. Such being the state of the record,
it is not conceivable that appellants should be denied
appropriate remedy for the enforcement of their legitimate
contract, protected, as it is, by the due process and obliga.tion clauses 6f the paramount law. It is obvious that the
damages incident to the removal of the switch track, which
must necessarily result in rendering appellants' plant

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

valueless and in terminating the conduct of its profitable
business, are 'incapable of ascertainment. •Appellants'
equities axe very great:
They are entitled to have their contract rights specifically enforced by an injunction. Owensboro v. Cumberland
Telephone Co., 230 U.S. 58; Emporia v. Atchison, Topeka
& SantaFe Ry. Co., 94,Kansas, 718; Taylor v. FloridaEast
Coast Ry. Co., 54 Florida,' 635; International & Great
Northern Ry. Co. v. Anderson County, 106 Texas, 60;
246 U. S. 424; H. & T. C. Ry. Co. v. Ennis, 201 S. W. Rep.
256; Harper v. Virginian Ry. Co., 76 W. Va. 788; McKeU
v. Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co., 186 Fed. Rep. 39; American
Malleables Co. v. Bloomfield, 83 N. J. L; 728; Southern Ry.
Co. v.Franklin & P. Ry. Co., 96 Virginia, 693; Raphael v.
Thames Valley Ry. Co., L. R. 2 Ch. 147; Greene v. West
Cheshire Ry. Co., L R. 13 Eq. 44; Jacksonville &c.Ry. Co.
v. Hooper, 160 U. S. 527; Union Pacific)Ry. Co. v. Chicago,
Milwaukee & St; Paul Ry. Co., 163 U. S. 564; 600; Atlanta
W. P. Ry. Co. v. Camp, 130 Georgia, 1; Columbus Ry. Co.
v. Columbus, 249 U. S. 399.
Mr. Thomas J. Freeman and Mr. James J. Collins, with
whom Mr. Allen Charleton, Mr. Carl B. Calloway and
Mr. Rhodes S. Baker, were on the briefs, for appellees.
MR. JusTcIC

BRANDEis delivered the opinion of the

court.
In 1872 the Texas and Pacific Railway Company built
its single track main line to the west on a street in the
village of Dallas, then as now called Pacific Avenue. In
1890 the City granted to the Company a fifty-year franchise to double track its railroad on that street. In the
latter year the population of Dallas was 35,057; now it
is 158,976;' and the existence and operation of the rail12th Census, Yol. I, p. 430; U. S. Census.Bureau, Population of
Cities Having 25,000 Inhabitants"or More, 1920.

ARMOUR & CO. v. DALLAS.
280.

Opinion of the Court.

road on. the Avenue has become a serious menace to
life and limb, a great inconvenience to the whole people,.
burdensome to the Railway, and an injury to neighboring
property. North of ihe Avenue lie largely the residential
sections of the City; adjacent and to the south, largely
business sections. A part of the Avenue is in the heart of
the City. There six of the leading business streets
-great thoroughfares-cross it; and on two of them street
cars cross the railroad at grade. Two other much travelled
streets are parallel. One of these, which is only two hundred feet distant, is the principal business: street of the
City. The number of trains operated daily over the
Avenue had risen in 1918 to more than one hundred; and
there were, in addition, switching operations to many
neighboring industries. Trains are now longer-some of
them consisting of eighty freight cars; and they occasion
serious interruption to street traffic. The necessary use of
larger engines, due partly to a heavy grade, results in much
noise, -smoke and cinders. Regulations concerning operation of trains imposed by the City in the interests of safety
were necessarily severe; and had proved expensive and
embarrassing to the Railway. Still further safeguards
and restrictions upon operation appeared to be necessary.
Plans wereproposed for putting the tracks in subways, for
elevating them and for eliminating the grade crossings; all
of which the City confessedly had power to require of the
Railway. But none of these projects appeared to offer a
satisfactory solution of the problem. Finally a plan was
worked out for the removal of the tracks from this part of
the Avenue for a distance of nearly a mile and for diverting the trains to the line of another railroad with which it
was proposed to-make connections. This involved establishing a wholesale trade district elsewhere.
This plan proved acceptable to the Railway, its receiver,
the City and most of the real estate owners affected. In
order to carry out the plan the Wholesale District Track-

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

age Company was organized; and this corporation, the
City, the Railway and its receiver entered into a contract
under which the improvement was to be made. Then
Armour & Company, owner of a plant served by a switch
track connecting with the main line on the Avenue, and As
lessee, brought this sit in the District Court of the United
States for the Northern District of Texas against all the
parties to the contract seeking to enjoin its performance
and specifically the removal from Pacific Avenue of the
tracks which connected with their switch track. Jurisdiction of the federal court was invoked on the ground that
the action proposed would deprive plaintiffs of their
property without due process of law and impair the obligation of their contracts in violation of the Federal Constitution. After full hearing on the merits a decree was
entered dismissing the bill with costs. The case comes
here by'direct appeal under § 238 of the Judicial Code.
First. The basis of the plaintiffs' principal claim is this:
In 1912 Armour & Company, being desirous of erecting a
plant in Dallas, made a contract for the purchase of a lot
on the Avenue, the purchase to be conditioned. upon the
t1ailway securing from the City a franchise to lay a switch
connecting the lot with its main track on the Avenue and
upon Armour & Company then securing from the Railway
an agreement to build and maintain the switch. Upon
satisfying itself through negotiation with officials of the
City and of the Railway that these conditions would be
complied with, Armour & Company completed the purchase of the lot. The: City tlhen passed an ordinance
granting such a franchise to the :RailWay for the period of
twenty years, conditioned, among other things, upon
Armour & Company dedicating about ninety square feet
of their land to the public to round the two corners of their
lot. The smrall parcels were dedicated; the plant was
erected; the switch was built by the Railway; and over the
switch Arrpour & Compan ,'s lessee customarily receives

ARMOUR & CO. t. DALLAS.
280.

Opinion of the Court.

about 600 cars of freight a year. The plaintiffs contend
that the switch franchise, granted by the City to the Railway, was entered -into for Armour & Compainy's benefit;
that it was, in effect, a contract with them; that the City
and the Railway are powerless under the Federal Constitution to abrogate that contract either directly by surrendering the switch franchise or, indirectly, by removing the
main track with which the switch connects;.and that the
plaintiffs are entitled to an injunction, because the plant,
which cost nearly $80,000 to build, would lose most of its
value if deprived of its. rail connection.
To this claim several answers are made: (1) That the
City did not make any contract with Armour & Company
and under its charter would have been without power to do
so; (2) that the Railway did not make any con-tract with
Armour & Company to maintain the side track and that it
had been authorized to remove the -tracks from -Pacific
Avenue by the Railroad Commission, under appropriate
legislation, on the ground that it would "serve the public
-interests by promoting the public safety and convenience;"
(3) that theplaintiffs have already sought and been denied,
as against the Railway and its receivers, the same relief
here applied for;.having intervened for.:that purpose in the
original suit-brought for appointment of the receiver in the
District Court of the United States for the Western District of Louisiana; that, the decree of the District Court
therein dismissing its petition asking the same relief had
been affirmed by the United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, Armour & Co. v. Texas &
PacificRy. Co., 258 Fed. Rep. 185; and that this .court had
denied Armour & Company's petition for writ of certiorari,
251 U. S. 551; (4) that even if the franchise bad pu4r'ported
to grant an absolute right to maintain the tracks on Pacific
Avenue it would have been subject to the fair -exercise by
the State, through the municipality as its agent, of the
.police power to promote the public safety; and that, under

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.

Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

the circumstances, removal of the tracks was essential for
this purpose since-the tracks could not appropriately be
placed underground or be elevated. See Denver & Rio
Grande R. R. Co. v. Denver, 250 U. S. 241, 244; Erie R. R.
Co- v. Board of Publie- Utility Commissioners, 25 U. S.
394; (5) that the franchise for the switch was not absolute;
that power of revocation had been expressly reserved by
clauses in the ordinance which made the franchise subject
to the City's 6harter powers and provided "that in the
event the said Railway Company shall be required to
abandon, to elevate or to place in subways said main
tracks on Pacific Avenue, then in that event this fra-nchise
shall be subject thereto"; and that the Railway was so
required; (6) that even if plaintiffs had the legal right
which they assert, they were not entitled to relief in equity
by injunction; since an action at law would afford an adequate remedy and an injunction would interfere with a
paramount public interest.
It was on the last of these grounds that the Circuit
Court of Appeals in Armour & Co. v. Texas & Pacific Ry.
Co., 258 Fed. Rep. 185, unanimously affirmed the decree
dismissing -ie intervening petition. Among the judges
sitting upon appeal in that case was the Circuit-Judge who
entered the decree in this case here under review. He does
not appear to have written an opihion in this case but
presumably he dismissed this bill also on that ground. For
it is clear that the case is not one for equitable relief. If the
plaintiffs as abutting property owners have any legal right
which is interfered with, an action at law for damages will
afford them a full and complete remedy. See Texas &
Pacific Ry. Co. v. Marshall, 136 U. S. 393, 405; Beasley v.
Texas & PacificRy. Co., 191 U. S. 492, 496-7. We ha'e no
oceaion, therefore, to consider any of the other reasons
urged for affirming the decree.
Second. Plaintiffs urge, apparently as taxpayers, this
additional ground for relief: They allege that the contract

ARMOUR & CO. v. DALLAS.
280.

Opinion of the Court.

entered into by the City is void and that its performance
should be enjoined; because the contract therefor was not
countersigned by the Auditor and the expense thereof was
not charged to the proper appropriation as required by the
City's charter. It was agreed that the plaintiffs had
brought a suit on this ground in a state court on behalf of
themselves and of other taxpayers of Dallas against the
City and others, that it had obtained upon an ex parte
hearing a temporary injunction restraining the City from
carrying out the contract, that this suit was pending on
appeal before the Court of civil Appeals for the Fifth
Supreme Judicial District of Texas when this case was
heard below, and that the temporary injunction, so far as
appears, is still in force. The District Court was clearly
right, under the circumstances, in refusing to grant an
injunction on this ground.
Affirmed.

