WESTERN PAC. R. R. CO. v. UNITED STATES.. 349
339.

Syllabus.

and IX, and is only a request "to change a negative to a
positive finding"; that the amendment to Finding X is
"rather an argument that certain conclusions should
follow from facts found" and that the court's "conclusion, from the facts found, is that both partie5 regarded
the settlements as final, not as tentative." The amendment to Finding XI, is, the Government says, "a request
to find evidence," which is contrary- to the rules, and
besides the evidence is immaterial.
We concur with the Government that the request for
findings is an effort to change negative to positive findings. The reasoning of the court expresses implicitly,
if not explicitly, a view, contrary to that expressed in the'
request. In other words, the court regarded the settlements of appellant with the Government as final, and
not as tentative.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY and MR. JUSTICE CLARKE concur
in the result.

WESTERN PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY v.
UNITED STATES..
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 136.. Argued January 13, 1921.-Decided March 7, 1921.
1. A railroad company, acquiescing in the practice and rulings of
government officials,charged and collected the reduced "land grant"
rates for transportation of army officers' effects, upon which it was
entitled to collect higher, commercial rates. Held, that it had waived
its right to collect more and could not recover more in the Court of
Claims. P. 355. See Oregon-Washington R.R.& Navigatior Co, v,

Unikd #States,ane., 339,

350

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Appellant.

255 U. S.

2. The transportation of army officers' effects for the Government
at government expense may be done at special reduced rates under
§ 22 of the Interstate Commerce Act. P. 356.
54 Ct. Clms. 215, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. William C. Prentissfor appellant:
We are here concerned with the case of a final carrier of
interline interstate movements, and it is immaterial
whether land-grant mileage was directly involved in any
movement embraced in the claim, or whether the shipments were routed entirely over non-land-grant lines. In
the first case the land-grant factor would be injected by the
land-grant act applicable. In the latter case the landgrant factor would be injected solely by the equalization
agreements entered into by the railroads generally with
the Quartermaster General, whereby they agreed to
accept.
Thereby the railroad companies accorded the United
States reduced rates, as authorized by § 22 of the Interstate Commerce Act, but only as to property, "for which
the United States is lawfully entitled to reduced rates over
land-grant-roads,"- and such reduced rates to be the "lowest net rates lawfully available as derived through deductions account of land-grant distance from a lawful rate
filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission applying
from point of origin to destination at time of movement."
As w6 are concerned here only with property for which
the United States is not lawfully entitled to -reduced rates
over land-grant roads, both the land-grant acts and the
equalization agreements disappear from the equation, and
there remains the plain case of shipments made at the published tariff rates, on account of which the claimant, as the
finaf carrier, has been paid l-ss than the full amount and is
suing for the difference.
Under the Interstate Commerce Act the final carrier is

WESTERN PAC. R. R. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 351
349.

Argument for Appellant.

not only empowered to collect the through charge, but is
burdened with the duty and obligation of collecting the
full published tariff rate and is powerless, to relieve or release a shipper or consignee from any part 'of the same.
Poor v. Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Ry. Co., 12 I. C. C.
418; Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Maxtwell, 237
U. S. 94, 97, 98.
-The provision in § 22 -of. the Interstate Commerce
Act "that nothing in this act shall prevent the carriage,
storage, or handling of property free or at reduced rates for
the United States, State, or municipal governments,"etc., is special authority for carriers to depart from established tariff rates (I. C..C. Conference :Ruling 208e), and
extends only to government property (I. C. C. Conference Rulings 33, 36 and 452). The fact that the Government assumes the freight charge is immaterial (I. C. C.
Conference Rulings 107, 431).
And that the Government recognizes that (except as
provided in § 22) it is reciprocally bound by, and entitled
to the benefit of, the Interstate Commerce Act, is evidencgd by the numerous instances where it has applied.
to the Interstate Commerce Commission for relief. United
States v. Adams Express Co., 16 I. C. C. 394; United .tates
v. Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co., 15 I.; C. C. 470; United
States v. Denver & Rio Grande R. R. Co., 18 I. C. C. 1;
United States v. New York, P. & N. R. R. Co., 15. I.
C. C. 233; United States v. A. & V. Ry. Co., 40 I. C: C.
406.
Even if § 22 could be construed to authorize the carriers
to contract with the Government for reduced rates' on
other than government property--officers' effects, for
instance-the situation here would. not, be changcd., for the
shipments in question were made expressly at the regular
tariff rates. The equalization agreements did not apply;
because the property of officers and employees was not
property as to which the Government, was lawfully en-

352

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Appellant.

255 U. S.

titled to land-grant rates. The regular tariff rates became
the rates fixed by law and the final carrier could not by
settlements, voluntary or otherwise, with the government
officers, waive its right and obligation to collect the full
amount.
Acquiescence has no application here as raising an im-

plied agreement as to rates or as injecting .into the bill of
lading contracts an intent contrary to the plain language
thereof.
The shipments were made upon bills of lading each constituting a separate and distinct contract. The right of
action upon each of these contracts was separate and
distinct. Settlement under one, or any number, at less

than the contract rate, could not prejudice the right of
action on any other. And outlawry of clain on ear Jer
such contracts could not prejudice the rights of action on
the later ones within the period of limitation.
Any defense to the items in suit, therefore, must arise
out of the particular contracts under which the shipments
were made and the conduct of the parties in connection
therewith, and, however phrased, such defense resolves in
final analysis into the contention that payment ani acceptance in each instance constituted accord and satisfaction.
But, the doctrine of accord and satisfaction, as a defense
to freight charges, 'has been eliminated by the Interstate
Commerce Act.
Even aside from the controlling effect of the Interstate
Commerce Act, the doctrine of accord and satisfaction
would not apply, for there would then be presented the
plain case of payment by the Government of less than it
contracted to pay in each of the numerous express con.tracts, without apy consideration 'to the claimant and
without-any prejudice to the Government.
Mr. Assistant Attorney Gentral Davis for -the UnitedStates.

WESTERN PAC. R. 'R.CO. v. UNITED STATES. 353
349.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the

court.
The basic preposition in this case, and'most of its
subsidiary considerations, are the same as in- No. 13n,
..ante, 339. It was argued at the saie time as the latter case,
and, as in that cas e, it is to recover amounts withheld by
the accounting officers of the Government as land-grant
deductions in settlements for transportatiorf of the pers6nal effects of Army officers.
It is asserted, however, that this action differs from
No. 134 'ii that the Western Pacific Railroad was not
cempleted and in operation until 1910 so that. it is said
"there is absent the element of previous course of dealings
relied upon by the Government, and in that there was
introduced in evidence" testimony to the effect that the
first voucher -presented for .ransportation service was for
full tariff rates.
It isstated in the findings that the real claimants in the
case are the receivers of the railroad but that its name is
used to .designate claimaits for convenience, and that
between June 10, 1910, and March 18, 1915, tbe railroad,
at the request of the United States as shipper or consignor,
received from other railroad companies at connecting
points, on government bills of lading, and transported
over its lines, the effects and property of officers of
the United States- Army, changing stations under
orders.
It further appears that from June 10, 1910, to March 18,
1915, the presentation of claims, character of vouchers
accompanying the same, action thereon by the accounting
officers of the Government, payment and receipt, were the
same as in No4:134, except, it is found, that "settlements
for charges on freight shipments on Government bills of
lading were in charge of one David A. McLean, head of the
freight revising bureau in the office of the general auditor

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S

of the plaintiff [appellant] at San Francisco." And it is
found "it was the practice of said McLean to revise the
bills of lading and apply the rates applicable on the traffic
at commercial rates, make the land-grant deduction and
compute the freight chaiges at the net rate. After a
month's bills of lading had been revised it was his practice
to check up with the quartermaster's office and adjust
differences, where there were any differences, as to the
correct charges. He then caused the claims to be stated
on the prescribed voucher form and after being signed
they, with the bills of lading attached, were forwarded to
the quartermaster for payment. It appears that to the
best recollection of said McLean he stated the first of these
claims, ' during this period, at commercial rates, but
being informed by the quartermaster's office of the
applicability of land-grant rates under the holding of the
Comptroller and the established practice he restated the
claim on a land-grant basis. It further appears that,.he
had just come to the service of the plantiff; that he had
had no experience in the rendering of bills for Government
transportation; that as soon as he learned the custom with
referen e thereto he rendered bills for transportation of
the character here involved at land-grant rates and continued to do so during all of said period. The rendering of
the bill referred to at commercial rates, if in fact he so
rendered it, was due to his ignorance of established practice and not because of any intention to question the
propriety of the prabtice or to claim as a matter of right
the application of commercial rates. It is not shown that
at any time during this entire period he ever questioned
the application of land-grant rates to such transportation
or protested any settlements on that account, but all bills
rendered by him, except as stated, were renderedat landgrant rates, and when so rendered he did not expect any
further compensation and never expected compensation
at other than land-grant rates until after the decision

WESTERN PAC. R. R. CO. x. UNITED STATES.
349.

355

Opinion of the Court.

of the Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Case by this
court." I

It is further found that "the difference between the
amounts claimed by the plaintiff and paid on account of
said transportation during said period and the amount it
would have received had it claimed and been paid full commercial rates without land-grant deduction is $5,760.89."
The rulings of the accounting ofiicers are detailed in the
findings.
From March 18, 1915, to August 1, 1916, it is found that
appellant was entitled "to payment .
. at the
regular published tariff rates applicable.' .....The government accounting officers, notwithstanding, "issued warrants for net amounts after making land-grant deductions." Against this appellant protested. The amounts
deducted amounted to $851.78.
The conclusion of the court was, and its decision was,
that appellant was entitled to judgment for the sum of
$851.78 and that as to the other amounts its petition
should be dismissed. For this the court gave as authority
its decision in Denver & Rio Grande R. R. Co. v. United
States, decided on the same day, 54 Ct. Clms. 125.
The opinion in the latter case is set out in the record at
page 16.
The argument in this case is the same as in No. 134, and
rests on the same considerations. This case, as we have
seen, was decided on the authority of Denver & Rio Grande
R. R. Co. v. United States, 54 Ct. Clms. 125, and the latter
on Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co. v. United States, 52 Ct.
Clms. 468 and 534.
A contention, however, is made that was not made in
No. 134, that is, that "under the Interstate Commerce
Law the final carrier [appellant was final carrier of the
transportation with which this case is concerned] is not
150 Ct. CIms. 412.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Syllabus.

255 U. S.

only empowered to collect the through charge, but is
burdened with the duty and obligation of collectipg the
full published tariff rate and is p~owerless to relieve or release a shipper or consignee from any part of the same."
The further contention is that within this obligation is
.the property in the pending case. The immediate angwer
is that § 22 of the Interstate Commerce Act permits reduced rates to the United States, and that by Conference
Ruling of the Interstate Commerce Commission No. 33 of
February. 3, 1908, § 22 is made 'applicable to property
transported for the United States. The transportation in
the present case wasfor the Government, and in providing
for it nnd paying for it the Government performed a governmental service.
Judgment affirmed.
MR.- JUSTICE PITNEY and MR. JUSTICE CLARK concur-

in the result.

SUPREME TRIBE OF BEN-HUR v. CAUBLE
ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF INDIANA.
'No. 274.

Submitted 'January 10, 1921.-- Decided March 7;..1921.

1. A suit brought against a fraternal benefitassociation, and its officers,
by some, in behalf ,of all, of the members of a class of its beneficiaries
-so numefous that it would be impracticable to join all-as parties, to
determine their rights as a class respecting the disposition and conWrol of trust funds held by the association, is cognizable by the Dis-.
trict' Court, where diversity of citizenship exists between the, parties
inembers
coniplainaint and defendant, and the decree will bind a.l

.

