OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for the United States.

255 U. S.

answer to the contention is that what the statute prescribed was for the courts of the State to determine and
their construction is not open to our review though we
might consider its application to the circumstances of
of the case to be rather hard. And it would, We think,
be extreme to hold that the statute or its construction is
a violation. of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES, MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER
and MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS, dissent.

UNITED STATES v. RUSSELL.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 143.

Argued January 17, 1921.-Decided February 28, 1921.

1. An experimental approach through a third person to the corruption
of a juror is enough to constitute an "endeavor" within Crim. Code,
§ 135. P. 143.
2. The term "endeavor" in this section is not subject to the technical
limitations of "attempt," but embraces any effort or essay to accomplish the evil purpose that the section was enacted to prevent.

Id.
3. The section applies where the juror has been summoned to attend
the session at which the trial in view is to be held but has not been
selected or'sworn. Id.
Reversed.
THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Stewart, with whom
Mr. Oliver E. Pagan', Special Assistant to the Attorney

UNITED STATES v. RUSSELL.
138.

Argument for Defendant in Error,

General, and Mr. W. C. Herron were on the brief, for the
United States.
.The following authorities were cited for the Government: Commonwealth v. Kennedy, 170 Massachusetts, 18;
Bishop, New Criminal Law, vol. i, §§ 435, 436; People
v. Murray, 14 California, 159, 160; United States v.
Stephens, 12 Fed. Rep. 52, 54; Commonwealth v. Peaslee,
177 Massachusetts, 267; Commonwealth v. Hill, 11 Massachusetts, 135, 136; United States v. Quincy, 6 Pet. 443,
464; United States v. Bittinger, Fed. Cas. No. 14,598;
Swift & Co. v. United States, 196 U. S. 375, 396; Rex v.
Vaughan, 4 Burr. 2494; Rex v. Isherwood, 2 Lord Kenyon,
202; Rex v. Plympton, 2 Lord Raymond, 1377; Rex v.
Gurney, 10 Cox C. C. 550; State v. Ellis, 33 N. J. L. 102;
United States v. Worrall, 2 Dall. 384; Wharton's State
Trials, 139; State v. Carpenter,20 Vermont, 9, 12; Walsh
v. People, 65 Illinois, 58, 60; Commonwealth v. Murray,
135 .Massachusetts, 530, 532; Light's Case, [1915] 11
Crim. App. Cas. 111, 113; Stephen, Digest of Criminal
Law, c. v, art. 49; Laitwood's Case [1910], 4 Crim. App.
Cas. 248; White's Case [1910], 4 Crim. App. Cas. 257, 271;
Robinson's Case [1915], 11 Crim. App. Cas. 124; State v.
Hurley, 79 Vermont, 28; Rex v. Taylor, 1 F. & F. 511;
People v. Sullivan, 173 N. Y. 122, 133-136; People v.
Youngs, 122 Michigan, 292, 295 (dissenting opinion);
Beale, Criminal Attempts, 16 Harv Law Rev. 491.
Mr. Otto Christensen for defendant in error.
The following authorities were cited for the defendant
in error: Bouvier (1897), vol. i, p. 190 (attempt); People
v. Murray, 14 California, 159; United States v. 51tephens,
12 Fed. Rep. 52,- 54; Hicks v. Commonwealth, 86 Virginia,223; Groves v. State, 116 Georgia, 516; People v. Youngs,
122 Michigan, 292; State v. Hurley, 79 Vermont, 28,
33; Patrick v. People, 132 Illinois, 529.
To constitute an "attempt" or "endeavor" to in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

fluence a juror, it is necessary to show, not only that that
was the defendant's purpose, but that he performed
some acts beyond mere preparation which would "amount
to the commencement of the consummation." We-have
only an unaccepted solicitation of a third person to ascertain a juror's attitude towards men held for trial; if
we are to assume that the defendant here had in mind,
upon receiving information that the juror was not hostile
to the men about to be placed on trial, to "corruptly
endeavor to influence" such juror, his conduct amounted
to nothing but preparation for the "endeavor." Between the two-preparation for the endeavor and the
endeavor itself to influence a juror-there is a wide
difference.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Review of an indictment in two counts for violation of
§ 135 of the Criminal Code of the United States, which
provides as follows:
"Whoever corruptly, or by threats or force, or by any
threatening letter or communication, shall endeavor to
influence, intimidate, or impede any witness, in any court
of the United States or before any United States commissioner or officer acting as such commissioner, or any
grand or petit juror, or officer in or of any court of the
United States, or officer who may be serving at any examination or other proceeding before any United States
commissioner or officer ,acting as such commissioner, in
the discharge of his duty, or who corruptly or by threats
or force, or by any threatening letter or threatening
communication, shall influence, obstruct, or impede, or
endeavor to influence, obstruct, or impede the due administration of justice therein, shall be fined not more
than one thousand dollars, or imprisoned not more than
one year, or both."

ITNITED STATES v. RUSSELL.
138.

Opinion of the Court.

The Government does not press the case on count two.
It is only necessary, therefore, to consider count one. It
charges defendant with unlawfully and corruptly 'endeavoring to influence one William D. Russell, who, he
well knew, was a petit juror in the court in the discharge
of his, the juror's, duty, and who he knew had been summoned as a petit juror on April 3, 1918, at which time
the trial of William D. Haywood and others was tobegin.
The manner of the execution of the violation of the section, the indictment details as follows: "Endeavoring to
ascertain in advance of the examination of said William
D. Russell in said court as to his qualifications to sit as a
petit juror at said trial whether said William D. Russell
was favorably inclined towards said William D. Haywood
and his codefendants, and corruptly to induce said William D. Russell to favor the acquittal of said William D.
Haywood and his- codefendants in case he should be
selected as a petit juror-at said trial, said L. C. Russell,
on said'April'1, 1918, called at the home of said William
D. Russell at No. 604 West Thirty-first Street, in said
city of Chicago, and engaged Lucy Russell, wife of said
William D. Russell, in a conversation, in the course of
which said L. C. Russell told said Lucy Russell that he
represented said William D. Haywood and his codefendants and requested her to question her husband as to his
attitude towards said William D. Haywood and his
-codefendants in the matter of the charges contained in.
said indictment and report the result of such questioning
to him, the said L. C. Russell, because, as said L. C.
Russell then and there stated to said Lucy Russell, they
(meaning said William D. Haywood and his codefendart,,)
did not want to pay money to any of the petit jurors
sitting at the trial of said case unless they knew such
petit jurors would favor their acquittal; by means of
which request and statement said L. C. Russell conveyed
to Lucy Russell, and endeavored to convey to said Wil-

--OCTOBER TERM, '1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

liam D. Russell, an offer to pay money to said William
D. Russell in return for his favoring such acquittal;
Defendant demurred to the indictment on the ground
that it did not appear therefrom by any sufficient averment or recital of "jurisdictional facts that any cause
involving any issue of fact triable by a jury was, at the
time in said indictment mentioned, pending in the District Court of the United States, or any other court,
whereby the above named United States District Court
does or could acquire jurisdiction in the premises."
The enumeration of the deficiencies of the indictment
may be summarized as follows: It did not appear that
William D. Russell possessed the qualifications to act as
a juror; or had been duly and regularly drawn and summoned; or had been examined and accepted as a juror
at the array; it cannot be ascertained at what time and
place the alleged conversation was had; or at what time
Lucy Russell received the impression of the meaning of
the conversation; or that she had access to her husband
or had opportunity, or could have communicated the
conversation to him; or that defendant knew she had
such opportunity; or that William D. Russell was a juror
in any particular case.
The demurrer was sustained and the indictment dismissed. This writ of error was then allowed.
Necessarily, the first impression of the case is that defendant had some purpose in his approach to Lucy
Russell and in the proposition he made to her. What was
it, and how far did he execute it? Counsel admits that
defendant's purpose was to "find out what his [L. C.
Russell's] attitude was towards the defendants" to be
tried. And that this. (we are stating the effect of counsel's contention) was only in preparation of a sinister
purpose, that the defendants in the case did not wish to
undertake, or, to use the language of the indictment, did

UNITED STATES v. RUSSELL.
138.

Opinion of the Court.

not "want to pay money to any of the petit jurors sitting
at the trial of said case unless they knew such petit jurors
would favor their acquittal." And this, counsel says,
"only amounted to a solicitation of a third person who
did not accept or act in furtherance of such solicitation,"
to be preparaand "could be interpreted only .
tion [italics counsel's] for an 'endeavor' or 'attempt' to
influence the juror, but falls far short. of an actual endeavor to do so."
Counsel enters into quite a discussion, with citation
of cases, of the distinction between preparation for an
attempt and the attempt itself, and-charges that there
is a wide difference between them.
We think, however, that neither the contention nor
the cases are pertinent to the section under review and
upon which the indictment was based. The word of the
section is-"endeavor," and by: using it the section got rid
of the technicalities"which might be urged as besetting
the word "attempt," and it describes any effort or essay
to accomplish the evil purpose that the section was enacted to prevent. Criminality does not get rid of its evil
quality by the precautions it t.kes against consequences,
personal or pecuniary. It is a somewhat novel excuse to
urge that Russell's action was not criminal because he
was cautious enough to consider its. cost and be sure of
its success. The section, -however, is not directed at
success in corrupting a juror but at the "endeavor" to
do so. Experimental approaches to the corruption of a
juror are the "-endeavor" of the section. " Guilt is incurred by the trial---success may -aggravate, it is not a
condition of it.
The indictment charges that defendant knew that
William D. Russell was a petit juror in the discharge of
his duty as '-such juror and, therefore, an endeavor to
corruptly influence him was within the section, though
he was not -yet selected or sworn. .State v. Woodson, 43

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Counsel for Appellant.

La. Ann. 905.

255 U. S.

The court, hence, erred in sustaining the

demurrer and dismissing the indictment.
Judgment reversed and cause remanded for further pro-

ceedings in conformity with this opinion.

LOWER VEIN COAL COMPANY. v. INDUSTRIAL
BOARD OF INDIANA ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF INDIANA.
No. 186. Argued January 27, 1921.-Decided February 28, 1921.
1. There is a sufficient distinction between coal mining and other
hazardous employments to justify a state legislature in applying
its Workmen's Compensation system to the one compulsorily,
while leaving it permissive or not applying it at all as to the
others. Pp. 146, 149.
2. Neither in this respect nor in applying to all employees of coal mine
operators, whether engaged in hazardous work or not, does the
Indiana law invade the rights of a coal company under the Fourteenth Amendment. Id.
3. Nor does such .aw offend §§ 21 and 23 of the Indiana Bill of Rights,
in failing to distinguish between those employees of coal operators
who are and those who are not in the hazardous part of the business.
P. 149.
4. The policy of workmen's compensation acts, unlike that of employers' liability acts, goes beyond the mere element of hazard,
and admits of a broader range of reasonable classification in the
public interest. P. 150.
Affirmed.

THE

case is stated in the

opinion.

Mr. William H. Thompson and Mr. Henry W. Moore,
with whom Mr. Samuel D. Miller and Mr. Frank C.,
Dailey were on the brief, for appellant.

