OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Syllabus.

255 U. S.

only empowered to collect the through charge, but is
burdened with the duty and obligation of collectipg the
full published tariff rate and is p~owerless to relieve or release a shipper or consignee from any part of the same."
The further contention is that within this obligation is
.the property in the pending case. The immediate angwer
is that § 22 of the Interstate Commerce Act permits reduced rates to the United States, and that by Conference
Ruling of the Interstate Commerce Commission No. 33 of
February. 3, 1908, § 22 is made 'applicable to property
transported for the United States. The transportation in
the present case wasfor the Government, and in providing
for it nnd paying for it the Government performed a governmental service.
Judgment affirmed.
MR.- JUSTICE PITNEY and MR. JUSTICE CLARK concur-

in the result.

SUPREME TRIBE OF BEN-HUR v. CAUBLE
ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF INDIANA.
'No. 274.

Submitted 'January 10, 1921.-- Decided March 7;..1921.

1. A suit brought against a fraternal benefitassociation, and its officers,
by some, in behalf ,of all, of the members of a class of its beneficiaries
-so numefous that it would be impracticable to join all-as parties, to
determine their rights as a class respecting the disposition and conWrol of trust funds held by the association, is cognizable by the Dis-.
trict' Court, where diversity of citizenship exists between the, parties
inembers
coniplainaint and defendant, and the decree will bind a.l

.

,SUPREME TRIBE OF BEN-HUR v. CAUBLE.
356.

357

Opinion of the Court.

of the class, including those not parties who are co-citizens with the
defendant.. P. 363.
2. Recognition of the jurisdiction to bind absentees in such cases is
manifest in the omission from Equity Rule 38, promulgated in 1912,
of the earlier provision making the decree without prejudice to their
rights and claims. P. 366.
3. Equity Rule 38, dealing specifically with this subject, controls
Equity Rule 39. -P. 366.
4-. Having rendered a decree in a-class suit defining the rights of a
class of beneficiaries of a fraternal benefit association, the District
Court. has ancillary jurisdiction of a bill brought by the associationagainst members of the class who are citizens of the same State as
itself and were not parties to the original suit, to restrain them from
reopening the questions thus settled by suits against it in the state
couxts. P. 367.
264 Fed. Rep. 247, reversed.
THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Charles M. McCabe, Mr. Samuel D. Miller, Mr.
William H. Thompson, Mr. Benjamin Crane and Mr.
Frank C. Dailey for appellant.
Mr. William C. Bachelder for appellees.

MI.' JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is here upon a
Code, § 238. Appellant is
organized under the laws
filed a bill against Aurelia

question of jurisdiction. Jud.
a fraternal benefit association
of the State of Indiana. It
J. Cauble and others, citizens

and residents of Indiana, to enjoin them from prosecuting
in the state courts certain suits 'which, it is averred,
would r-elitigate questions settled by a decree of the
United States District Court for Indiana; it being the
contention that all the members in Class A in the Supreme Tribe of Ben-Hur, including the apellees, were
bound and concluded by the federal decree.
The bill was filed upon the. theory that it is ancillary
-in charcter, and justifies a decree to protect the rights

• 358

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

adjudicated in the original proceeding. A motion to
dismiss for want of jurisdiction was sustained. 264 Fed.
Rep: 247.
The ancillary bill alleges that the questions decided
in the original suit determined:
(1) The right of the Supreme Tribe of Ben-Hur to
create a new class of benefit certificate holders known
as Class B. (The membership in such society up to
July 1, 1908, having been in the class thereafter to be
designated as Class A.) (2) The right of the society to
determine that all benefit certificates issued after July 1,
1908, should be Class B certificates, and that no Class A
certificates should be issued after that date, and no new
members taken into Class A, from that time. (3) The
right of the Supreme Tribe of Ben-Hur to require members
of Class B to pay different rates for their insurance from
members of Class A. (4) The right of the Supreme Tribe
of Ben-Hur to require that the mortuary funds of the
two classes be kept separate and distinct, and that the
death losses occurring therein should be paid out of
the funds of each class respectively. (5) The right of
the Supreme Tribe of Ben-Hur to authorize members of
Class A to transfer, upon a written application therefor,
to Class B, and to take with them into Class B their
interest in the mortuary and other funds of the society,
created, or arising prior to July 1, 1908, and require the
Class B members to pay'a monthly payment and rate
in excess of that paid by Class A members. (6) The
right of the Supreme Tribe of Ben-Hur to require members
remaining in Class A, and not transferring to Class B,
to pay a sufficient number of monthly payments, or assessments, to meet the death losses ill Class A. (7) The
right of the Suprene Tribe of Ben-Hur to use the expense
fund of the society for the purpose of creating Class B,
and to induce Class A members to transfer to Class B,
and to secure new members in Class B. (8) Whether

SUPREME TRIBE OF BEN-HUR v. CAUBLE.
356.

359

Opinion of the Court.

the Supreme Tribe of Ben-Hur had used the expense
fund in a manner justified by its constitution and bylaws and a general examination of expenditures which
had been made by that society, out of its expense fund,
and the purpose for which these expenditures had been
made, and whether any of them .were made in violation
of the rights of Class A members. (9) The right of the
Supreme Tribe of Ben-Hur to use its expense fund, including all questions as to whether payrhents made out
of it were equitable and just, or inequitable, wrongful
and unlawful; and the question of whether the maintenance of a general expense fund, and the payment of the
entire expenses of the society therefrom, was fair, just
and legal. (10) Whether the Supreme Tribe of Ben-Hur
had wrongfully, or unlawfully, inaugurated a campaign
to persuade and induce the members of the society belonging to Class A to give up their certificates in Class
A, and to apply for and procure membership and certificates in Class B; or whether the action of the society,
and its officers, in that connection, was rightful, just and
equitable. (11) The question of whether the rates in
Class A, in effect prior to July 1, 1908, wexle adequate
or inadequate, or whether they were sufficient'to provide
for the current death losses in Class A, and the expenses
of the society; or whether it was necessary, in order to
prevent the insolvency of the Supreme Tribe of BenHur, to create a new class, and induce the members of
the old class, in so far as it was possible to induce them,
to transfer to the new class, and the right of the society
to take all action nccessaiy for this purpose.
Other details of the reorganization are set forth, and
it is averred that in the original suit it was finally determined and adjulge(l that the reorganization adopted by
the Supreme Tribe ,,f Ben-Hur was valid and binding
upon all the miiheis ()f the society, including the members
known a Class A.

OCTOBER, TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

The ancillary bill alleges that the prosecution of the
suits in the state courts of Indiana will have the effect to
relitigate questions conclusively adjudicated against the
defendants as members of Class A in the action in the
United States District Court; that to permit them to do
so would destroy, the effect of the decree rendered in
that suit; that in the several suits. commenced in the
state courts plaintiffs therein challenged the rights of. the
society to create Class B; and that the plan of reorganization of the society to create Class B, and the questions
of fact and law involved in the causes in the state court
are the same questions, and none other than those conclusively adjudged and determined in the main suit.
The district judge dismissed the suit for want of jurisdiction upon the following certificate:
- "I herebycertify thai I dismissed the ancillary bill of
complaint in the above cause of' the Supreme Tribe of
Ben-fur v. Aurelia J. Cauble, et al., solely'because of
the lack of jurisdiction of the *UnitedStates District Court
for the District of Indiana to entertain said ancillary
bill of complaint.
"I dismissed said ancillary bill of complaint upon. a
motion filed by the defendants thereto and also upon my
own motion.
"The jurisdictional question arose as follows:
"On April 16, 19K3- George Balme, a citizen of the
State of Kentucky, and five hundred and twentythree
other complainants residing in fifteen different states of
the Union outside of the State of Indiana, and one complainant residing in the Dominion of Canada, filed their
bill of complaint in the Unmued States District Court foi
the .District, of Indiana against the Supreme Tribe of
Ben-Fur, a fraternal beneficiary society organized under
the laws of the State of Indiana with its principal office
at Crawfordsville in said state and district aforesaid, and
its officers, all citizens and residents of the State of In-

SUPREME TRIBE OF BEN-HUR v. CAUBLE.
356.

361

Opinion of the Court.

diana, to enjoin what was claimed to be an unlawful use
of trust funds of said defendant, Supreme Tribe of BenHur, in which all the complainants and other members of Class A of said Supreme Tribe of Ben-Hur
had a common but indivisible interest, and attacking a plan of reorganization adopted by the Supreme
legislative body of the Supreme Tribe of Ben-Hur
to prevent threatened insolvency and disruption of
said society; the suit was a class suit brought and
prosecuted for the benefit of all members 6f Class A
of said society of whom there were more than seventy •
thousand at the time of the commencement of said suit,
to wit, April 16, 1913; an answer was filed by the defendants setting up a full answer to the facts averred in
the bill of complaint; a long heai'ing was had before the
Master, the Master filed a written report and in this
report it was found that this was strictly a true class suit
presenting questions of common interest to all the members
of Class A and affecting their joint interests in funds and
in internal management of the society, written exceptions were filed thereto both by complainants and de"fendants, and a final decree was entered dismissing complainants' bill of complaint for want of equity,. which
said decree has never been appealed from, modified or
vacated, but is still in full force and effect. No Indiana
members of the society intervened or were made parties
to the suit by any subsequent proceeding prior to the
filing of said ancillary bill in said cause.
, "In 1919 the defendants to the ancillary bill, all being
residents of the State of Indiana, and all having been
members of said Class A of said Supreme Tribe of BenHur or being beneficiaries of persons who were members
of said Class A at the time of the commencement, prose-.
cution and final decree in said cause of Balme and others
v. Supreme Tribe of Ben-Hur and others, commenced
actions in the Circuit Court of Montgomery County,

362

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

Indiana, and in the Circuit Court of Marion County,
Indiana, in which they seek to relitigate questions determined in favor of the defendant, Supreme Tribe of
Ben-Hur, in said suit brought by George Balme and others
in the United States District Court for the District of
Indiana.
"The ancillary bill of complaint filed herein seeks to
enjoin the maintenance and prosecution of the actions
commenced by said several defendants to the ancillary
bill of complaint in the State Courts. of Indiana, all of
which actions were commenced subsequent to the final
decree in said cause of Balme and others v. The Supreme
Tribe qf Ben-Hur, which final decree was entered and
rendered on the 1st day of July, 1915.
"That a copy of said ancillary bill, together with the
motion of the defendants thereto to dismiss the same,
and the order of dismissal are contained in the judgment
roll filed herein, to which reference is made for a more
particular description thereof, and that there is attached
to said ancillary bill contained in said judgment roll a
full copy of all the pleadings and proceedings had in said
cause of Baline et al. v. The Supreme Tribe of Ben-Hur et.
al., together with the report and findings of the Master
and the judgment and decree of the court.
"I dismissed the ancillary bill of complaint on the
ground only that members of Class A of the Supreme
Tribe
Ben-Hur residing in the State of Indiana could
not beofbound
by representation by complainants in
the
class suit of Balme et al. v. The Suprcme Tribe of Ben-Hur
et al., as the presence of such Indiana members of Class A
as plaintiffs would have ousted the jurisdictiqn of the
court iMthe nain suit, such jurisdiction being based only
on diversity of citizenship and not on any Federal question, and that therefore the decree in the main case was
and is not res adjudicadtaas to Indiana members of Class A
of the Supreme Tribe of Ben-Hur.

SUPREME TRIBE OF BEN-HUR v. CAUBLE.
356.

363

Opinion of the Court.

"The only question which arose on the dismissal of
the ancillary bill of complaint was the question of jurisdiction, and such question of jurisdiction only, as above
stated, is hereby certified to the Supreme Court of the
United States for its decision thereon."
From this statement of the case it is apparent that two
points are involved in determining the jurisdictional
question before us: First. Was the original decree binding
upon citizens of Indiana who were in the class for whom
the suit was prosecuted, but not otherwise parties to the
bill? Second. Was the present suit ancillary in character, and such as to justify an injunction in the federal
court to restrain the proceedings in the state court?
Class suits have long been recognized in federal jurisprudence. In the leading case of Smith v. Swormstedt,
16 How. 288, 303, of such suits this court said: "Where
the parties interested in- the suit are numerous, their
rights and liabilities are so subject to change and fluctuation by death or otherwise, that it would not be possible, without very great inconvenience, to make all of
them parties, and would oftentimes prevent the prosecution of the suit to a hearing. For convenience, therefore, and to prevent a failure of justice, a court of equity
permits a portion of the parties in interest to represent
the entire body, and the decree binds all of them the
same as if all were before the court. The legal and equitable rights and liabilities of all being before the court
by representation, and especially where the subjectmatter of the suit is common to all, there can be very
little danger but that the interest of all will be properly
protected and maintained."
The subject is provided for by Rule 38 of the Equity
Rules of this court promulgated in 1912, which reads:
"When the question is -one of common or general interest
to many persons constituting a class so numerous as to
make it impracticable to bring them all before the court,

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

one or more may sue or defend for the whole." As the
rule formerly read it contained the following provision
"but in such cases the decree shall be without prejudice
to the rights and claims of the absent parties."
The District Court held that this change in the rule
could not affect the jurisdictional authority of the court,
and added, that in its view Rule 39 was the applicable
one. Rule 39 provides: "In all cases where it shall appear to the court that persons, who might otherwise be
deemed proper parties to the suit, cannot be made parties
by reason of their being out of the jurisdiction of the
court, or incapable otherwise of being made parties, or
because their joinder would oust the jurisdiction of the
court as to the parties before the court, the court may,
in its discretion, proceed in the cause ithout making
such persons parties; and ifi such case the decree shall be
without prejudice to the rights of the absent parties."
Under the latter rule the District Court held that the
Indiana citizens were out of the jurisdiction of the federal
court in the original suit, and that their joinder would have
ousted the jurisdiction of the court, although that fact
would not prevent the court from proceeding in the case
to a decree without prejudice to their rights. "In other
words," said the judge, "although the original bill was a
class suit,, the class did not include Indiana citizens."
That the persons in Class A of the society. were so numerous that it would have been impossible to bring them all
before the court, is apparent from a statemeit of the case.
They numbered many thousands of persons, and resided
in many different States of the Union. There was the requisite diversity of citizenship to justify the bringing of a
class suit in the United States District Court for the District of Indiana. The court, therefore, properly acquired
jurisdiction of the suit, and was authorized to proceed to a
final decree.
The District Court held that in its view joinder of In-

SUPREME TRIBE OF BEN-HUR v. CAUBLE. 365
356.

Opinion of the Court.

diaua citizenswould have defeated jurisdiction in the federal
court, which conclusion was necessarily decisive of the case.
In Stewart v. Dunham, 115 U. S. 61, a creditor's bill was
filed in equity to set aside a conveyance of a stocl of
merchandise. The suit was removed from the state court
to the Circuit Court of the United States on the ground of

diversity of citizenship. After the cause was removed,
co-claimants, citizens of the same State as were the defendants, were admitted into the suit.. This, it was contended,
prevented the court from proceeding to a decree, as it was
without jurisdiction because the controversy became one
not wholly between citizens of different States. Of this
contenton this cot rt said (p. 64): "This, of course, could
have furnished no objection to the removal of the cause
from the State court, because at the time these parties had
not been admitted to the cause; and their introduction
afterwards as co-complainants did not oust the jurisdiction
of the court, already lawfully acqofired, as between the
original parties. The right' of the court to proceed to
decree betN. een the appellants and the new parties did not
depend upon difference of citizenship; beeause, the bill
having been filed by the original complainants on behalf of
themselves and all other creditors choosing to come in
and share the expenses of the litigation, the court, in exercising jurisdiction between the parties, could incidentally
decree in favor of all other creditors- coming in under the
bill. Such a proceeding would be ancillary to the jurisdiction acquired between the original parties, and it would
be merely a matter of form whether the new parties should
come in as co-complainants, or before a master, under a
decree ordering a reference to prove the claims of all persons entitled to the benefit of the decree. If the latter
course had been adopted, no question of jurisdiction could
have arisen. The adoption of the alternative is, in substance, the samne thing."
This principle controls this case. The original suit was

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

a class suit brought by a large number of the class as representatives of all its membership.
The change in Rule 38 by the omission of the qualifying
clause is significant. It is true that jurisdiction, not warranted by the Constitution and laws of the United States,
cannot be conferred by a rule of court, but class suits were
known before the adoption of our judicial system, and
were in use in English chancery. Street's Federal Equity
Practice, vol. 1, §549.
The District Courts of the United States are courts of
equity jurisdiction, with equity powers as broad as those
of state courts. , That a.class suit of this nature might have
been maintained in a state court, and would have been
binding on all of the class, we can have no doubt. Hartford
Life Insurance Co. v. Ibs, 237 U. S. 662, 672; Royal Arcanum v. Green, 237 U. S. 531.
Owing to the number of interested parties and the impossibility of bringing them all before the court, the
original suit was peculiarly one which could only be prosecuted by a part of those interested suing for all in a
representative suit. Diversity of citizenship gave the
District Court jurisdiction. Indiana citizens were of the
class represented; their rights were duly represented by
those before the court. The intervention of the Indiana
citizens in the suit would not have defeated the jurisdiction already acquired. Stewart v. Dunham, supra. Being
thus represented, we think it must necessarily follow that
their rights were concluded by the original decree.
Rule 38, as amended, was intended to apply to just such
cases. Rule 39 does not apply to a subject already specifically covered in Rule 38. Of course, mere considerations
of inconvenience cannot confer jurisdiction, but it is to be
noted that if the Indiana citizens are not concluded by the
decree, and all others in the class are, this unfortunate
situation may result in the determination of the rights of
most of the class by a decree rendered upon a theory which

PAYNE v. NEW MEXICO.
356.

Syllabus.

may be repudiated in another forum as to a part of the
same class.
If the federal courts are to have the jurisdiction in class
suits to which they are obviously entitled, the decree when
rendered must bind all of the class properly represented.
The parties and the subject-matter are within the court's
jurisdiction. It is impossible to name all'of the class as
parties, where, as here, its membership is too numerous to
bring into court. The subject-matter included the control
and disposition of the funds of a beneficial organization
and was properly cognizable in a court of equity. The
parties bringing the suit truly represented the interested
class. If the decree is to be effective and conflicting judgments are to be avoided all of the class must be concluded
by the decree.
As to the other question herein involved, holding, as we
do, that the membership of Class A were concluded by the
decree of the District Court, an ancillary bill may be prosecuted from the same court to protect the rights secured to
all in the class by the decree rendered. Looney v. Eastern
Texas R. R. Co., 247 U. S. 214, and cases cited.
It follows that the decree of the District Court, dismissing the ancillary bill for want of jurisdiction, must be
Reversed.

PAYNE, SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR, ET AL.
v. STATE OF NEW MEXICO.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. .128.

Argued October 6, 1920.-Decided March 7, 1921.

1. Under the acts of Congress entitling the State of New Mexico to
waive its rights to any place section which has passed to it as school
land and subsequently has been included within a ptiblio reservation

