OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

POSTAL TELEGRAPH-CABLE COMPANY v.
CITY OF FREMONT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEBRASKA.
No. 156. Submitted January 18, 1921.-Decided February 28, 1921.
A small license tax, imposed by a city on a telegraph company for
the privilege of doing intrastate business, is not to be declared an
unconstitutional burden on its interstate business merely because
the local business is unprofitable, where the tax ordinance was in
force when the company entered the place and the tax was paid
without objection for a series of years,-the circumstances thus
repelling any intent to invade interstate .commerce in levying it,and where the state law affords means to prevent the tax from birdening the interstate business through an application to increase
intrastate rates, of which the company has not sought to avail itself.
P. 127.
103 Nebraska, 476, affirmed.
THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. John'N. Sebrell, Jr., for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Robert E.

Evans for defendant

in error.

Mr.

Charles E. Abbott and Mr. John F. Rohn were also on the

brief.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.

The City of Fremont is a city of Nebraska of the first
class, having more-than 5,000 and less than 25,000 inhabitantp. By an ordinance duly enacted in 1903 and

reenacted in 1907, there was levied a license tax upon
businesses .and occupations within the city including
telegraph offices.

Upon these offices it levied a tax of

$60.00 per year on the business and occupation of sending

POSTAL TEL.-CABLE CO. v. FREMONT.
124..

125

Opinion of the Court.

messages from the city to any place in the State, and
receiving messages transmitted from any place in the
State to the city, except messages received from or transmitted to any department, agency or agent of the United
States, and except messages which were interstate commerce.
Plaintiff in error, herein called the Postal Company,
is a corporation engaged in such business within the city,
it having been in December, 1881, permitted by the
constituted authorities of the city, in the manner provided
'by its ordinance, to occupy and use the streets Qf the
city for that purpose; the ordinance providing that it was
"subject .to such regulations as have been or may be
provided by ordinance," and that nothing in the article
granting such consent to the use and occupation of the
streets should "be construed to prevent said city, from
further regulating, licensing or taxing any person, company or corporation owning, using or operating any
telephone or telegraph lines within the corporate limits
of said city." The Postal Company in accordance with
the ordinance paid a license tax of $60.00 a year for the
years 1903 to 1914, each. inclusive, but did not pay for
the years 1915 and 1916, and this action was brought
for the recovery of the same with interest at 7%.
The defenses of the Postal Company set up in its answer are that it is compelled by the charter of its organization to do intrastate as well as interstate telegraphitg,
-.that it paid the license tax for the years alleged inadvertently and without recognition of its legality;.that .it
has accepted the terms of the Post Road Act of July 24,
1866, and is entitled to its benefits; that the tax is confiscatory and prohibitive and deprives the compa.y of
its property without due process of law in violation of
the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the
United States. In specification of this defense it is alleged that the; receipts' of the company for 1914. on its

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

inti astate business were only $108.28, and for the year
1915, $83.96, and that the -expenses properly chargeable
against. these years respectively, exclusive of the tax,
were $185.56 and $154.26, and that its loss on intrastate
business would have to be made up from interstate
business; that the city is under nq expense by reason of
the poles and wires of -the company being in the city,
and that $60.00 a year is in excess of a rental charge upon
them and that the streets are post roads within the meaning of the Post Road Act of 1866. In further defense the
answer alleges that the tax is one on interstate commerce;
that it deprives the company of the. equal protection of
the laws and impairs the obligation of a, contract, both
in Violation of the Constitution of the United States.
. The case was tried to a jury, which, after evidence
taken, was instructed by the court to return a verdict for
the city. in the sum of $135.00.
A motion for new trial was denied and judgment was
rendered upon the verdict. It was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State, the Supreme Court deciding:
(1) the tax was "not a mere license or regulation measure,
but one designed for revenue purposes," and that its
extent was "a matter for the judgment and discretion of
the municipal government, subject only to the restriction
that it must not be prohibitory." 'Citing 2 Cooley on
Taxation, 3rd ed, 1139, 1440. (2) The tax was not
prohibitive; that proof of loss for two years without showing what volume of business was available in the municipality, or what portion was done by the company or
what its facilities *were for handling the business, was not
sufficient to show that a tax of $60.00 imposed for revenue
purposes on the privilege of doing an intrastate business
in a city of over 8,000 inhabitants was unreasonable.
(3) In imposing an occupation tax-for revenue purposes
a municipality acts as the agentof the State, and where a
,tax is imposed upon a telegraph. company doing an in-

POSTAL TEL.-CABLE CO. v. FREMONT, . 127
124.

Opifiion,of the-Court.

trastate and an interstate business and the revenue
derived -from its intrastate business as a whole becomes
insufficient and the tax may become a burden on its
interstate business, "Section 7409, Rev. St. -1913, provides a remedy."
The only contention that the Postal Company makes
here is that-the tax "is in effect an- imposition upon its
assertion,
interstate business." It has this effect,is the
because the net receipts from its "intrastate business at
Fremont are insufficient to pay the tax, which if compelled,
must be paid from the company's interstate business,"
because it is required to do an intrastate business by
§ 7408 of the, state statutes and its charges are prescribed
by the section. For the contention and its supporting
assertions the company relies on Postal Telegraph-Cable'
Co. v. City of Richmond,, 249 U.- S.,:252..
We cannot assign to that case the determining force
that counsel attribute to. it. The case clearly declares,
that a license tax may be lawfully imposed on a telegraph company for the right to do .business within the
borders of the municipalities of a State. The power, of
course, has its limitations and must be exercised with
due relation- to the company's interstate business. That
relation is always to be considered but it is not disposed
of by the .simple'assertion of a loss. The cause of it or
the condition of it is to be considered. In this case the
tax is $60.00 a year. It certainly cannot be said that it is
repellent from its amount, and there is no pretense that
its imposition "is a disguised attempt to tax interstate
commerce." The Postal Company when it entered the
city, the ordinance levying the tax then being in existence,did not declare against its legality or complain of its
detrimental operation. Indeed, for the privilege of
entering the city it subjected itself to further regulation,
licensing and taxing. And it paid the tax fromthat time
until 1914. The. allegation in its answer that it. paid the

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

tax "through the mistake and inadvertence of" its clerical
force" we are not disposed to accept, without more, as
an explanation.

The Supreme Court expressed the view that mere
proof of loss for two years, which may have been exceptional, determined nothing in the absence of a showing
what business was available to the company or what
facilities it had or used, and also held that the city being
an agent of the State any deficit arising from the tax
imposed on the intrastate business of the company can
be prevented from becoming a burden upon the company's interstate business by an application to the State
Railway Commission under the provisions of § 7409 for
an increase of its intrastate rates. And the suggestion
is pertinent. The company, as we have seen, cites § 7408
as a compulsion upon it to engage in intrastate business
and at designated rates. From the rigor of the requirement §7409 provides a mode of relief, and until it is denied
the company cannot complain under the circumstances
presented by this record. In other words, if § 7408 is
imperative upon the company to continue intrastate
business, § 7409 affords a means of obtaining relief from
burdensome obedience. The sections are counterparts.
If submission to § 7408 results in insufficient revenue and
a burden upon interstate commerce, it is made the duty
of the Railway Commission by §7409 upon complaint
of the Postal Company to raise the intrastate rate "fixed"
in § 7408. No attempt to secure relief under § 7409
appears to have been made.
Judgment affirmed.

