UNITED STATES v. DIAMOND COAL CO.
317.

323

,Syllabus.

cepoted by a shipper, is, in effect, ap exception to the common-law rule of liability of common carriers, and the latter
rule remains in full effect as to all cases not falling within
the scope of such exception. Having but one app'ricable
published rate east of San Francisco the petitioner did not
give, and could not lawfully have given, the shipper a
choice of rates, and therefore'the stipulation of value in the
Yokohama bill of lading, even if treated as imported into
the Uniform Bill of Lading, cannot bring the case within
the valuation exception, and the carrier's liability must be
determined by the rules of the common law. To allow the
contention of the petitioner, would permit carriers to
contract for partial exemption from the results of their own
negligence without giving to shippers any compensating
privilege. Obviously such agreements could be made, only
with the ;gnorant, the unwary br with persons deliberately
deceived. It results that the judgment of the Supreme
Court of the State of New York, entered upon the order ofthe Court of Appeals of that State, must be
A firrrned.

UNITED STATES v. DIAMOND COAL & -COKE
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.,
No. 87. Argued November 11, 1920.-Decided March 7, 1921.
1. The Government has no equity to maintain a suit to set aside a
fraudulently procured land patent, after the expiration of the statutory period of limitation, upon the ground that the fraud was concealed, (Exploration Co. v. United States, 247 U. S. 435), if it has
been guilty of laches in discovering the fraud. P. 333.
2. In a suit by the Government to annul coal land patents, outstand-

324

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for-the United States.

255 U. S.

ing 14 to 20 years, where the bill alleged that the entries were made
by hirelings for the exclusive benefit of a coal company, operating
nearby, which had taken possession of the land applied for and
paid all expenses of the entries, but that the land office officials
believed-and relied upon the false statements of the entrymen that
they were in possession and acting only for themselves; and where
the bill further alleged that the entrymen deeded to the company
soon after entering the land, and ,that the company afterwards
extracted from it large'quantities of coal, but that'the proceedings
concerning the entries were, and were intended to be, such that the
fraud was concealed and that no knowledge or notice of it came to
the United States until it was in, part r6vealed by a report of a
special agent made shortly before the. institution of the suit, held,
that the allegations excused the delay in bringing the suit, and that
it was error to dismiss the bill by resorting to mere inferences and
conjectures of notice, as by assuming that the deeds were promptly
recorded (the bill not stating when), and by assuming that the
company's possession was such as to give notice to the Government.
P. 334.
254 Fed. Rep. 266, reversed.
THis was an appeal from a judgment of the Circuit

Court of Appeals which affirmed a judgment of the District- Court for the District of Wyoming, dismissing, on
defendant's motion, a bill brought by the United States
to set aside numerous patents for coal land, on the ground
o: fraud, and for an accounting for coal extracted.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Nebeker, with whom
Mr. H. L. Underwood, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, was, on the brief, for the United States:
The rule laid down in Wood v. Carpenter, 101 U. S.
135, 140, 141, relied on by both courts below, is not applicable. A clear distinction exists between this case
and those cases in which that rule has been applied, and
this distinction has been recognized by this court. Gab,
liher v. Cadwell, 145 U. S.368, 372; Hammond v. Hopkins,
143 U. S.224, 250. This court has never applied the
rule of Wood v. Carpenter and kindred cases to a case

UNITED STATES v. DIAMOND, COAL CO.
323.

Argument

325

for the Appellee.

where gross fraud was clearly made out and where the
delay in bringing suit was due to concealment. McIntire
v. Pryor, 173 U. S. 38.
The sufficiency of the bill is fully sustained by the
decision in Rosenthal v. Walker, 111 U. S. 185. Bailey
v. Glover, 21 Wall. 342; Traer v. Clews, 115 U. S. 528,
536, 538. The doctrine of Bailey v. Glover was recentlyreaffirmed in Exploration Co. v. United States, 247 U. S.
435, and declared to be the true rule of federal jurisprudence in the application of statutes of limitation.
If thL. distinction does not exist, between cases Where
there was notice of the fraud, or where the fraud is nct
clearly established, and cases in which, as here, tle
fraud is clear, then the decisions in Rosenthal v. Walker,
and Traer v. Clews are irreconcilable with the rule laid
down in Wood v. Carpenter.
The -United States, suing in vindication of its own
rights, cannot be held guilty of laches.
Mr. W. B. Rodgers, with whom Mr. L. 0. Evans, Mr.
D. M. Kelly and Mr. B. M. Ausherman were on the
brief, for appellee:
No facts are pleaded to show the defendant guilty of
any concealment of the alleged frauds subsequent to the
date of the issuance of the patents, or of any conduct
which would excuse the plaintiff from sooner instituting
its suit. The allegations, "and said defendant fraudulently, unlawfully and dishonestly concealed from the
aforesaid officers of the United States . . . the
aforesaid fraudulent practices and the true circumstances
under which said entries and purchases were made," and
that said frauds "were perpetrated secretly and were
of such a- nature as to conceal themselves," are mere
conclusions.
The concealment of the frauds might be accomplished
in many and various ways, and it is for the court to say

326

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Appellee.

255 U. S.

whether the conduct of the defendant constituted concealment in. the legal sense, such as to excuse the Government from bringing the. suit within the time limited, and
likewise for the court tosay whether the frauds "were of
such, a nature as to conceal themselves." United States
v. Puget Sound Traction.Co., 215 Fed. Rep. 436; Beatty v.
Nickerson, 73 Illinois, 605.
The most that can be claimed for the pleading, is that
the charge is equivalent to an allegation that, after the
consummation of the frauds leading to the patents, the
defendant "failed to seek out the plaintiff and voluntarily
confess to it, or its officers, the wrong which had been
perpetrated upon it." This assertion is without warrant
in any. facts set out, but, even if by, fair implication the
bill contained such an allegation, it would be insufficient
to toll the running of the statute. Bailey v. Glover, 21
Wall. 346; Wood v. Carpenter, 101 U. S. 135; Felix v.
Patrick, 145 U. S. 318; Bates v. Preble, 151 U. S. 162;
Pearsall v. Smith, 149 U. S. 231; Linn & Lane Timber
Co. v. United States, 196 Fed. Rep.- 593; United States
v. Exploration Co., 203 Fed. Rep. 387; 225 id., 854; 235
id., 110; 247 U. S. 435; United States v. Norris, 222
Fed. Rep. 16; Keithly v. Mutual Life Ins. Co., 271
Illinois, 584.
Not passive concealment of the original fraud, but
concealment brought about by a fraud superadded for
the purpose, is the basis of these decisions and the latest
decision by this court on the subject. Exploration Co.
v. United States, 247 U. S. 435. See also Keithly v.
Mutual Life Ins. Co., 271 Illinois, 584; Jackson v. Jackson, 47 N. E. Rep. 964.
Nor does the allegation that "it was a part of said
conspiracy and understood and agreed among said conspirators, said defendant and said entrymen, that said
frauds and said conspiracy and the true facts surrounding
said entries and purchases should at all timqs be concealed

UNITED STATES v. DIAMOND COAL CO.
323.

327

Argument for Appellee.

from the plaintiff, etc.," aid the plaintiff. It is distinctly
alleged that this agreement was a part of the original
conspiracy charged and set out in the bill of complaint.
It was therefore a part of the initial fraud and merged
in the cause of action which accrued upon the issuance
of patents to the several entrymen. See United States
v. Puget Sound Traction Co., supra, 440.
Since the silence of the defendant, after the accrual
of the cause of action and the full completion of the
wrong, does not amount to fraud in law, and does not
toll the running of the statute, it follows that the agreement alleged does not add to such silence any evil quality.
Altogether apart from the question whether or not the
bill charges facts showing a fraudulent concealment
of the cause of action, or that the frauds committed were
of a self-concealing nature, when the bill shows, as in this
instance, thai the action was not brought within the
time limited by the statute, the duty devolved upon the
plaintiff to show by the allegations that it has not been
wanting in diligence; and in order to do this, it is necessary
to allege the time when the fraud charged was discovered,
and what the discovery was, how it was made, and why
it was not made sooner, in order that the court may be
able to say whether, by ordinary diligence, the discovery
might not have been made within the period of the
statute of limitations. United States v. Puget Sound
Traction Co., supra, pp. 441, 443; Wood v. Carpenter,
supra, 140; Badger v. Badger, 2 Wall. 94; Stearns v.
Page, 7 How. 826.
But plaintiff says it is excused from showing diligence
and for its inaction covering a period of 20 years, because
the defendant failed to disclose the frauds to it. The
proposition denies the rule of diligence.
We search the bill in vain for any allegation as to
when the United States first discovered' the alleged
frauds. The only thing that is made clear is that this

OCTOBER TERM; 1920.
Argumeit for Appellee.

255 U. S.

discovery was made some time .before November, 1916,
for it is clear that during that-month a- special agent of
the Department of the Interior made a report in the
.line of his duties to the Secretary of the Interior, disclosing the fraudulent conduct of the defendant, but
when the facts reported by him were discovered neither
implication nor direct averment furnish any information,
and it can hardly be open to controversy that information
acquired by him in the line of his duties, as an agent of
the Government, or of the Secretary of the Interior, and
therefore of the Government, is chargeable to the plaintiff
and to the Secretary, ,in his official, capacity, as well.
It is true that direct authority of -the Secretary to
appoint special agents to investigate the fraudulent
acquisition of public lands, so far as 'the statutes of the
'United States are conccrned, is found only in the appropriation laws, but those laws clearly vest the Secretary
with this authority, and likewise clearly charge' such
agents with the discharge of the duties in which the
special agent was engaged.
It is alleged that, at the time of the entries of the lands
in question, the defendant was in possession thereof, and
also of the mines therein, and has since continued in the
possession, and has been engaged for many years in
mining and selling the coal contained therein, and that
other mines of the defendant lie in close proximity. It
also clearly appears that these eighteen entries were
made in ,quick succession, and that the several entrymen
contemporaneously, or almost contemporaneously, with
the respective dates of entry, executed deeds to the defendant.
There is no allegation that the defendant did not
promptly record these deeds, and as the failure to record
a deed is a badge of fraud, and fraud cannot be presumed
against the defendant without distinct allegations relating thereto in the bill, it follows that for the-purpo:'e

UNITED STATES v. DIAMOND COAL CO.
323.

329

Opinion of the Court.

of the question here under discussion the defendant must
be deemed to have duly recorded said deeds at the time
of the receipt of the same.

From this it not only appears that there was no concealment, but it also appears, when the legal presumption
of notice of these facts is indulged in, that the United
States had sufficient notice from the date of the issuance
of these patents to call for action upon its part by way of
investigation.

United States v. Norris, 222 Fed. Rep.

16, 19; Felix v. Patrick, 145 U. S. 329, 331; Niles v.
Cooper, 98 Minnaesota, 39; Hughes v. United States, 4
Wali. 235, 236; McDonald V. Bayard Savings Bank, 98
N. W. Rep. 1025; Van Gunden v. Virginia Coal & Iron
Co., 52 Fed. Rep. 838, 849; Piekenbrock & Sons v. Knoer,
114 N. W. Rep. 200; Nash v. Stevens, 65 N. W. Rep. 825;
Simmons v. Baynard, '30 Fed. Rep. 537; Clark v. Van
Loon, 108 Iowa, 250; Teall v. Slaven, 40 Fed. Rep. 774,
780; Burling v. Newlands, 39 Pac. Rep. 49; Scruggs v.
Decatur Co., 5 So. Rep. 440; Wood v. Carpenter,supra.
When the Government seeks to avoid the bar of the.
statute of limitations, its rights are determined by the
same rules as would be the rights of a private litigant.
United States v. Puget Sound Traction Co., 215 Fed. Rep.
441.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This suit, begun by the United States against the
Diamond Coal & Coke Company in October, 1917, had
a threefold object: (1) To cancel 18 patents granted to
that number of persons, at dates ranging from 14 to 20
years prior to the commencement of the suit, and covering 2,283 acres of coal land situated in the Evanston Land
District,- State of Wyoming; (2) to cancel deeds of conveyance to the corporation made by the entrymen who

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

had purchased from the United States the land which
the patents, embraced; (3) to recover the value of coal
which it was alleged had been taken by mining operations
of the corporation from the land iii 'question during the
period stated..
It suffices from the view we take- of the matters requiring consideration to briefly resume the averments
.of the bill. It was alleged that in the year 1894 the
defendant corporation had formed a conspiracy to defraud- the United States of the land covered by the patents by procuring the purchase of said land from-the
United States by persons acting ostensibly for themselves
but really as the representatives of the corporation and
for its sole account and benefit. In furtherance of the
conspiracy.. thus formed, it was alleged, 18 persons,
described as entrymen, at the 'suggestion and in the pay
of the corporation, made iapplication 4t the proper land
office of the -United States to purchase in their own
namesr the land covered by',the patents, the land so 'applied for having been designated by the coiporation and
the entries being exclusively intended for its benefit. It
was,,charged that these entrymen falsely swore, for the
purposes of their applications to purchase, that the applications were made for their own benefit, when in fact
they were solely made for the benefit of the corporation;
that the entrymen, additionally, falsely swore that they
were in possessi, ,iof the land, had developed coal ines
on it, and were engaged in working the same, when in
-truth the lands had never been in the possessidn of the
applicants, Who had expended no money and had done
no work thereon, since the lands were, prior to and at
the time of the applications, in the possession of the
corporation through its officers or some persons 6r agents.
acting for it and for itg benefit.
It was further alleged that, shortly after the entries
were made, in furtherance of the fraudulent purpose and

UNITED STATES v. DIAMOND COAL CO.
323.

331

Opinion of the Court.

upon the false allegations and affidavits above stated and
before patent issued, the entrymen conveyed the land
applied for by warranty deed to the corporation, although there was no allegation concerning the registry
or non-registry of the deeds of conveyance thus made.
The bill in addition charged that, for the purpose of securing the right which was contemplated for the benefit
of the corporation, further false affidavits as to the exclusive interest of the entrymen were made and that all
the money paid by way of price for the land or for expenses
or otherwise was furnished by the corporation for its
own account. It vas alleged that the corporation for
many years before the transactions thus stated had
engaged in the mining, production, and sale of coal in
the State and district in which the land covered by the
entries was situated; that its operations had been principally carried on in the vicinity of such lands, and that
the lands involved in the suit had been mined for coal
and large quantities of coal had been and were still being
removed therefrom, to the irreparable injury of the
United States; the value of the coal thus removed being
the subject-matter of the claim in that respect to which
we have at the outset referred.
There were general averments that the previously
alleged acts concerning the making of the entries, which
were alike in all, were done, not only for the purpose of
defrauding the United States and enriching the corporation, but in order to conceal the wrong which was being
accomplished, and that-the acts of concealm~mt were of
such a character as to deceive the officers of the United
States and to lead them to believe that the entries were
what they purported to be,. that is, purchises by, theentrymen, and to exclude, therefore, not only the knowledge that they were for the account of the corporation,
bvt also to exclude all basis for afforoing any reasonable
ground to put the United States upon inquiry as to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.

Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

real situation. Additionally, it was averred that, so
completely did the fraud which was committed and its
concealment accomplish-the purposes thus intended,
that the officers of the United States had no knowledge
whatever of. the fraudulent title acquired by the corporation and no reason to believe in its existence until a
short time before the bringing of the suit when, by report
of a special agent of the Land Office, knowledge of the
true situation was in part conveyed, leading up to a
further investigation by the Department of Justice,
consequent upon which the suit was commenced.
It was moved to dismiss on four grounds: (1) That the
bill stated no cause of action; (2) that it was barred by
the limitation, of the Act of March 3, 1891, c. 559, 26
Stat. 1093, as the six-year period fixed by that act had
elapsed; (3) because the facts as to fraud and concealment alleged in the bill were not of such a character as to
suspend the operation of the statute, and (4) because
those facts were of such a nature as necessarily to impute
the knowledge of the fraud complained of, or if not, to
make it clear that the failure to seek relief within the
statutory time was the result of inexcusable laches. The
court, not questioning that in an adequate case the fraud
and the concealment thereof would suspend the operation
of the statute until the discovery of the fraud (Exploration
Co. v. United States, 247 U. S. 435, 445), based its conclusion upon the qualifications and limitations inhering
in that rule, as stated in the Exploration Case and as
previously expounded in Bailey v. Glover, 21 Wall. 342.
Concluding that the averments of the bill were irsuficient
to estabish that the failure to discover within the statutory time was not solely attributable to laches, and
finding the bar of the statute under these circumstances
absolute, the court applied the statute and dismissed the
bill. The United States having elected not to avail of
leave to amend within a period of 90 days,. allowed by

UNITED STATES v. DIAMOND COAL CO.
323.

,333

Opinion of the Court.

the court of its own motion, but to stand on its bill, a
final decree was entered dismissing the bill, and the case
was taken to the court below.
That court, while considering the subject in the light
of the burden cast upon the United States resulting from
the fact that the time fixed by the statute had run before
the suit was brought, and the technical sufficiency of the
bill viewed merely from that aspect, proceeded to consider the averments of the bill comprehensively. As a
result, it conbluded (a) that the allegations of the bill
did not meet the requirements as to the exertion of due
diligence to discover the fraud which they charged had
been committed, and (b) that the bar of the statute was
applicable because the allegations of the bill stated the
existence of facts and circumstances from which knowledge
of the fraud was necessarily to be imputed, or from which
such inferences were plainly deducible as would have led
to discovery if diligence had been exerted; in other words,
that there was either knowledge of the fraud within the
statutory period, or such laches resulting from :-ailure
to make inquiry as to take the case out of the equitable
principle by which the positive bar of the statute could
be'avoided.
Before testing the accuracy of the deductions from
the averred facts upon which these conclusions are
necessarily based, we dispose of a legal contention of the
United States, that in any event the proposition3 were
wrongfully applied, because under the statute la(hes in
discovering the fraud could not be imputed to the United
States. As the statute in express terms deals with the
rights of the United States and bars them by the limitation which it prescribes, and as that bar would be effective
unless the equitable principle arising from the fraud and
its discovery be applied, it must follow, since the doctrine
of laches is an inherent ingredient of the equitable principle in question, that the proposition is wholly without

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

merit, because, on the one hand, it seeks-to avoid the bar
of the statute by invoking the equitable principle suspending its operation, and, on the other, rejects the
fundamental principle upon which the equitable doctrine
invoked can alone rest.
Coming, then, to consider the allegations of the bill
for the purpose of testing the conclusions based upon
them by the court below, as just stated, we are of opinion
that such conclusions cannot be sustained without drawing unauthorized inferences from the facts alleged and
thus deciding the case by indulging in mere conjecture.
Without going into detail, we briefly advert to the inferences from two subjects dealt with by the court below
which illustrate the necessity for the conclusion just
stated. In the first place, let it be conceded arguendo
that the conveyances from the entrymen to the corporation, as alleged, following almost immediately the
initiation of the right to purchase and preceding the

patents, the uniformity of the method employed, and
the surrounding circumstances, would all, if known, have
constituted badges of fraud of such a character as to
produce the result which the court below based upon
them. But the result thus stated depends upon th existence of knowledge of such facts or of knowledge of
other facts from which they Were reasonably deducible,a situation which does not here exist, as the averments
of the bill as to concealment exclude that conclusion.
True it is, that, in dealing with the question of the lechnical sufficiency of the pleading, the court below directed
attention to the fact that it contained no allegation that
the conveyances made by the entrymen had not been
seasonably recorded; but that in no way justifies the
inference that they had been recorded and therefore gave
notice of the fraud, even if it be conceded, for the sake
of the argument, that such recording was adequate to
give such notice,-a question which we do not now decide.

UNITED STATES v. DIAMOND COAL CO.
323,

3,35

Opinion of the Court.

So also, let it be conceded, as held by the court below,
that the allegations of the bill as to the possession of the
land by the corporation at the time of the purchase by
the entrymen and subsequent to their conveyances; of
the propinquity of the land to the field of operations of
the corporation; of its exploitation by the corporation

for the purpose of taking coal therefrom, all in and of

them, elves, if open and public so as to be known, constituted such indications of fraud as to give notice to the
United States, or at least to put it upon inquiry. But
again, that concession is here irrelevant since the averments of concealment and other allegations in the bill are
susceptible of the construction that the possession of the
corporation was clandestine and that its operations as
to the property were Of the same character because not
conducted in its own name but by persons interposed
with the very object of concealment.
Viewing the case in the light o? these considerations,
as well as of others to the same effect to which we do not
stop to refer, we are of opinion that error was committed
in disposing of the bill upon the motion to dismiss, and
that the ends of justice requ;re that it should be only
finally disposed of after hearing and proof, thus excluding
the danger of wrong to result from a final determination
of the cause upon mere inferences without proof.
It follows that the decree of the court below must'be
and it is reversed and the case remanded to the District
Court with directions to set aside its decree of dismissal
and to overrule the motion to dismiss and for further
proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Rbversed and remanded.

