OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Syllabus.

255 U. S.

ship in the Nation.' Lindly and Field claim as associates of
Chester Howe; it does not appear that Lindly performed
any meritorious service for the Indians; Field was active
in impressing upon Congressmen and Senators his views as
to necessary and proper legislation for securing the rights
of the Mississippi Choctaws to citizenship in the Choctaw
Nation; but the extent and effect of such services do not
appear, nor does it appear that the legislation finally
enacted was the result of said services. In none of these
cases does the record show any proper foundation laid for a
remand for further findings. All these claims were properly rejected.

No. 6. Judgment reversed, and the cause remanded for
furtherfindings of fact as above specified.
Nos. 7,8,9,10;11, and 12. Judgments affirmed.
MR. JUsTICE VAN DEVANTER and MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS took no part in the consideration or decision
of these cases.

PIERCE ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 173.

Argued January 24, 1921.-Decided March 7, 192!.

1. A judgment for a fine imposed in a criminal case is enforceable, like
a civil judgment, by execution (Rev. Stats., § 1041), and by creditor's.
bill. P. 401.
2. A corporation against which an indictment was pending for taking

rebates in violation of the Elkins Act, divested itself of its assets
by distributing them among its stockholders, -who were also its
officers alad had notice of the prosecution. Held, that the United
States, having secured a conviction a year later upon which a fine

PIERCE v. UNITED STATES.
398.

Statement of the Case.

was imposed, was entitled to pursue the assets by creditor's bill
against the stockholders to satisfy the judgment. P. 402.
3. The United States, to satisfy a'judgment recovered and upon
which execution has been returned unsatisfied in one district, may
bring a creditor's bill in another district in another State, without
a preliminary issue of execution and return of nulla bona there. So
held where it was agreed that the judgment debtor had no property
out of which the judgment could have been satisfied at law. P. 404.
4. A corporation against which an indictment was pending under the
Elkins Act, sold all its property to another corporation which assumed
its "debts, obligations and liabilities" as part of the purchase price.
Held, that, assuming the second corporation thus became liable to
satisfy a judgment for a fine imposed upon a subsequent conviction
in the criminal case, the existence of such legal remedy did not
operate to debar the United States from seeking satisfaction of the
judgment in equity by a creditor's bill against the stockholders of
the first corporation; nor did the institution by the United States of
a suit against the second company to subject land, part of the property purchased, to its judgment, amount to an election of remedies.
P. 404.
5. Inasmuch as a judgment in favor of the United States may be made
the basis of an execution in any State and district (Rev. Stats.,
§ 986), -,he objection that a corporation against which the United
States has a judgment in one. district is a necessary party to a
creditor's bill brought by the Government in another State and
district to obtain satisfaction frum the stockholders, is purely
technical and, if not made in the Circuit Court of Appeals, cannot
be availed of in this court as a ground for attacking a decree against
the stockholders. P. 405.
6. Under Rule 24 of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, a plain error may be noticed though not assigned or specified.
Held, that such an error, refused cbnsideration in that court because
first called to its attention by petition for rehearing, was assignable
and reviewable here. P. 405.
7. A judgment recovered by the United States as a fine in a prosecution
*by indictment does not bear interest, since interest is statutory,
and Rev. Stats., § 966, the provision most nearly applicable, applies
only to judgments recovered by civil process. Id.
257 Fed. Rep). 514, modified and affirmed.
APPEL. from a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
affirming a decree of the District Court in favor of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.

Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

United States in a creditor's suit, brought by the Government against stockholders to satisfy a fine recovered from
their corporation.
Mr. Louis Marshall for appellants.
The Solicitor General, with whom Mr. Robert P. Frierson
was on the brief, for the United States.
IVIR. JusrIcE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the court.

In 1907 the Waters Pierce Oil Company, a Missouri
corporation, was indicted in the District Court of the
United States for the Western District of Louisiana under
the Elkins Act (February 19, 1903, c. 708, § 2, 32 Stat.
847), for receiving rebates. In 1913 the Company sold.
and transferred all its property to the Pierce Oil Corporation; all the proceeds were paid to Henry S. Priest
and Clay Arthur Pierce as trustees; and they distributed
the same among the stockholders. Of these Henry Clay
Pierce and the Pierce Investment Company, received
millions in cash and stock and Clay Arthur Pierce a
small amount. In 1914 the case under the Elkins Act
was tried. The Company was convicted and sentenced
to pay a fine of $14,000, and in the following year the
judgment was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals.
222 Fed. Rep. 69. An execution issued thereon to the
marshal for that district and was returned nulla bona.
Thereafter this bill in equity was brought by the United
States in the Federal District Court for the Eastern
District of MiSsouri against the Waters Pierce Oil Company, the trustees, and these three stockholders to obtain
satisfaction of the judgment out of the money remaining
in the hands of the trustees and that received by these
stockholders. The District Court entered a decree dismissing the bill as against the Waters Pierce Company
and the trustees, but granted, as against the stockholders

PIERCE v. UNITED STATES.
398.

Opinion of the Court.

named, the relief prayed by the Government. The decree
was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Eighth Circuit, one judge dissenting. The case is brought
here by these defendants, under § 241 of the Judicial
Code. Reversal is sought on several grounds.
First. The ground for reversal most strongly urged is
that the judgment imposing a fine on the Waters Pierce
Company is not a debt on which a creditor's bill will lie.
The argument is that a judgment for a definite sum of
money does not necessarily endow the holder with all
the rights of a creditor; that a court will look behind a
judgment and will grant or deny relief according to the
nature of the original cause of action, as it did in Wisconsin
v. Pelican Insurance Co., 127 U. S. 265; Louisianav. New
Orleans, 109 U. S. 285; and Wetmore v. Markoe, 196 U. S.
68; and that, since liability for a penalty is criminal in
its nature and not strictly a debt, a creditor's bill cannot
be brought upon a judgment for a penalty. It is true
that to the liability for penalties imposed by the United
States ceftain incidents of a criminal proceeding attach;
see Boyd v. United States, 116 U. S. 616; United States v.
Stevenson, 215 U. S. 190, 199. But the liability is often
enforced by civil proceedings and specifically by the
action of debt. Lees v. United States, 150 U. S. 476.
See Adams v. Woods, 2 Cranch, 336, 340. And then
certain incidents of civil proceedings attach. Hepner v.
United States, 213 U. S. 103.
By § 1041 of the Revised Statutes it is provided (In
additon to the power existing by general usage to commit a defendant to jail until his fine has beeni paid, see
Ex parte Barclay, 153 Fed. Rep. 669) that judgments
for penalties "may be euforced by execution against the
property of the defendant in like manner as judgments
in civil cases are enforced." The statute applies to all
judgments for penalties, whether recovered by civil or
criminal proceedings. A judgment creditor's bill is in

402

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

.255 U. S.

essence an equitable execution comparable to proceedings supplementary to execution. See Ex parte Boyd,
105 U. S. 647. The law which sends a corporation into
the world with the capacity to act imposes upon its
assets liability for its acts. The corporation cannot.
disable itself from responding by distributing its property
among its stockholders and leaving remediless those
having valid claims. In such a case the claims after
being reduced to judgments may be satisfied out of the
assets in the hands of the stockholders.' There is no good
reason why the rule should be limited to judgments
arising out of civil proceedings. To the contention that
'the statute has not made this process available for the
Government in enforcing a penalty, it may be answered
as was (lone by the King's Bench a hundred years ago,
in King v. Woolf, 2 Barn. & Ald. 609, 611, when it was
insisted that a fine due to the Crown was not a judgment
debt for which execution could be levied: ". . . mischievous consequences would ensue to the crown and the
regular administration of justice, from a delinquent withdrawing all his property from the effect of a judgment;
and . . . the preventing that will not be a mischievous consequence to any one but himself. Here
there is a judgment that the defendant do pay to the
king a fine of a certain sum. By that judgment the debt
becomes a debt to the king; of record; and it is payable
if we were to say that
to the king .instanter. . .
the crown shall not be at liberty to issue an immediate
execution for its own debt, we should place the crown in
a worse situation than any subject."
Second. It is contended that the right to bring a
creditor's bill did not exist,- because the judgment against
Wood v. Dummer, 3 Mason, 308; Railroad Co. v. Howard, 7 Wall.
392; Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. Boyd, 228 U. S. 482, 502; Kansas City
Southern Ry. Co. v. Guardian Trust Co., 240 U. S. 166; Johnson v.,
Canfield-SwigartCo., 292 I1. 101; Hastings v. Drew, 76 N. Y. 9.

PIERCE v. UNITED STATES.
398.

Opinion of the Court.

the Company was not entered in the trial court until a
year after the Company had divested itself of the property
sought to be reached in this suit; and the Government
did not become a creditor, at all. events until after its
claim for penalties had ripened into a judgment. -But
when a corporation divests itself of all its assets by distributing them among the stockholders, those having
unsatisfied claims against it may follow the assets, although the claims were contested and unliquidated at
the time when the assets were distributed. It is true
that the bill to reach and apply the assets distributed
among the stockholders cannot, as a matter of equity
jurisdiction and procedure, be filed until the claim has
been reduced to judgment and the execution thereon
has been returned -unsatisfied, Hollins v. Brierfield Coal
& Iron Co., 150 U. S. 371; but, as a matter of substantive
law, the right to follow the distributed assets (see Railroad
Co. . Howard, 7 Wall. 392, 409; Northern. Pacific Ry.
Co. v. Boyd, 228 U. S. 482; Kansas City Southern Ry. Co.
v. Guardian Trust Co., 240 U. S. 166) applies not only
to those who are creditors in the commercial sense, but
to all who hold unsatisfied claims. A-corporation cannot by divesting itself of all property leave remediless
the holder of a contingent-claim, or the obligee of an
executory contract, Baltimore & Ohio Telegraph -Co. v.
Interstate Telegraph Co., 54 Fed. Rep. 50, or the holder, of
a claim in tort, Hastings v. Drew, 76 N. Y. 9; Jahn v.
Champagne Lumber Co., 157 Fed. Rep. 407; and there is
no good reason why the United States with a claim for
penalties should be in a worse plight. Here the stockholders receiving the assets are in the position of volunteers; and there is not even the excuse that they wereignorant of the Government's claim. TPhey were officeis
of the corporation, and the indictment was pending when
the transfer of the assets was made. See Baltimore &
Ohio Telegraph Co. v. Interstate Telegraph Co., supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

Third. It is contended that the bill should have been
dismissed because the execution issued to the marshal
for the Eastern District of Missouri was not returned
unsatisfied until after the commencement of the suit.
It has been held that in litigations between private parties
a creditor's bill cannot be maintained in a federal court
upon a judgment recovered in a State other than that in
which suitis brought, National Tube Works Co. "v.Ballou,
146 U. S. 517, 523; and that a return unsatisfied of the
execution issued-on the judgment sued on is held essential
to the maintenance of the creditor's suit, Taylor v. Bowke*,
111 U. S. 110. But this strict rule is not applicable where
the United States is the judgment creditor. Under § 986
of the Revised Statutes an execution issued in favor of
the United States by any of its courts runs in every part
of the United States; just as under § 985 an execution on
a judgment obtained in favor of any party in a District
Court, where the State is divided into two or more districts, may run and be executed in any part of the State.
Toland v. Sprague, 12 Pet. 390, 328. Here the execution
issued to the Louisiana marshal had been returned nulla
bona before this suit was brought; and it is agreed that
when this suit was begun the Waters Pierce Oil Company
had no property in Missouri or elsewhere out of which
the judgment could be satisfied at law. To hold that
under such circumstances the suit must fail, because the
return of nulla bona was not made by the marshal for
the Eastern District of Missouri until after the filing of
the original bill, would apply a Well settied rule to a case
not within its scope.
Fourth. It is contended that the bill should have been
dismissed because the Government had an adequate
remedy by suing the Pierce Oil Corporation, and, indeed,
had commenced such a suit. That corporation assumed,
as part of the purchase price of the Waters Pierce Oil
Company, its "debts, obligations, and liabilities." Be-

PIERCE v. UNITED. STATES.
398.

Opinion of the Court.

fore commencing this suit the Government had brought,
in a Federal District Court for Louisiana,. a suit against

the Pierce Oil Corporation to subject to the satisfaction
of its judgment certain parcels of land conveyed to the
corporation by the Waters Pierce Oil Company. But in
the Louisiana suit the Pierce Oil Corporation denied
liability insisting that the Government was not a creditor
of the Waters Pierce Oil Company. ,The United States
could not have been required to accept in lieu of its
claim against the judgment debtor even an admitted obligation of the new corporation to pay it. The existence
of that possible remedy did not bar the Government from
following by a creditor's bill the assets of the corporation
into the stockholder's hands. Nor did the suit against
the Pierce Oil Corporation amount to an election of
remedies which should have led the lower courts to dismiss this bill. The two remedies were consistent. See
Zimmerman v. Harding, 227 U. S.489, 494.

Fifth. The contention is faintly made that the decree
should be reversed because the District Court dismissed
the bill as against the Waters Pierce Oil Company, a
necessary party; citing Swan Land & Cattle Co. v. Frank,

148 U. S. 603, 610. The argument ignores the fact that
this judgment being in favor of the United States is,
under §986 of the Revised Statutes, effective and may be
made the basis of an execution running in a State and
district other than that in which the judgment was rendered. It was doubtless for this reason that the District
Judge concluded that it was unnecessary, if not improper,
to enter in this suit judgment against Waters Pierce Oil
Company. The objection is purely technical. Since it
was not set up among the many errors assigned in the
Court of Appeals and in this court, it cannot be availed
of here.
Sixjh. It is urged that the District Court erred in
allowing interest on the pwLalty ($14,000) from the (late

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

of the indictment, January 29, 1907. This was not assigned as error in the Circuit Court of Appeals, and for
this reason that court refused to consider it on a petition
for rehearing. In the assignment of errors filed in this
.court the objection was properly raised. Under Rule 24
of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit
the court may "notice a plain error not assigned or specified," and we think it should have done so in this case. In
allowing interest from January 29, 1907, the District
Court was clearly under the misapprehension that that
was the date of the judgment, for the decree so recites;
whereas, in fact, judgment was not entered until March,
1914. But interest was not even allowable from that time.
At common law judgments do not bear interest; interest
rests solely upon statutory provision. Perkins v. Fourniquet, 14 How. 328; Washington & Georgetoum R. R. Co.
v. Harmon, 147 U. S. 571, 584-5. The only applicable
statute of the United States is § 966 of the Revised Statutes
which provides that "Interest shall be allowed on all
judgments in civil causes, . .. ." Since'the penaltywas
not recovered by civil process but by judgment in a proceeding initiated by a criminal indictment, it obviously
does not fall within the terms of the statute. interest,
therefore, is allowable only on the judgment from the date
when it was entered against the defendants in this case,
namely March 11, 1918.
The judgment of the Circuit Court. of Appeals as
modified is
Affirmed.

