SILVER KING CO. v. CONKLING CO.
144.

Syllabus.

it is insisted, the court considered such employment as a
material distinction and that legislation vhich disregarded it would have unconstitutional discrimination.
The contention _only has strength by regarding 'employers' liability acts and workmen's compensation acts
as practically identical in the public policy respectively
involved in them and in effect upon employer and employee. This we think is without foundation. They both
provide for reparation of injuries to employees but differ
in manner and effect, and there is something more in .a
compensation law than the element of hazard, something
that gives room for the power of classification which a
legislature may exercise in its judgment of what is necessary for the public welfare, to which we have adverted,
and which cannot be pronounced arbitrary because it
may be disputed and "opposed by argument and opinion
of serious strength." German Alliance Insurance Co. v.
Kansas, 233 U. S. 389; International Harvester Co. v.
Missouri, 234 U. S. 199.

Decree affirmed.

SILVER KING COALITION MINES COMPANY v.
CONKLING: MINING COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO AND APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF
APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
Nos. 158, 187. Argued January 19, i921.-Decided February 28, 1921.

1. Monuments prevail over courses and distances. P. 162.
2. A patent which describes a-lode mining claim by courses and distances, but which also calls for monuments at the first two comers,
and refers to the other two turning-points as "corner No. 3" and
"corner No. 4," is subject to interpretation as calling for monuments
at all four comers, and opens the door to field notes showing such

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Petitioner and Appellant.

255 U. S.

monuments and to parol evidence of their actual location on the
ground. Pp. 159, 162.
3. And such interpretation is greatly strengthened when the 'patent
by its language assumes identity of tbe claim as therein described
and patented with the lot as surveyed, platted and designated by
the surveyor general, in view of his duty to see that such lots are
identified by monuments on the ground. P. 161.
4. Under the mining law, an application to patent a lode claim is for
a claim marked by monuments; the posted and published notice of
application refers to a claim so marked; and such notice, as a jurisdictional basis, will not sustain a patent for land outside the nonu-"
ments, as against a senior locatiori. P. 161.
5. The rights of the respondent under its patent were fixed by.the
register's final certificate. P. 162.
6. The Act of April 28, 1904, amending Rev. Stats., § 2327, and
declaring that monuments shall prevail over inconsistent descriptions
in mining patents, merely made more explicit the previous policy
of the law. Id.
230 Fedc. Rep. 553, reversed.

.REVIEW of a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals,
which reversed a decree of the District Court dismissing a

bill to establish title to a body of ore as within the plaintiff's patented mining claim and to obtain an account for
ore extracted.

The case is stated in the opinion, p. 159.

Mr. Thomas Marioneaux, with whom Mr. W. H. Dickson, Mr. A. C.'Ellis, Jr., and Mr. R. G. Lucas were on the
briefs, for petitioner and appellant, presented, among
other points, the following:
The Court of Appeals was in error in holding that the
language of the Conkling patent is such that the calls
for 1500 feet forbid the reception of any evidence, even

of the Conkling field notes, to show the actual positions
of posts Nos. 3 and 4, as erected upon the ground at the
time of the patent survey.

The finding of the trial judge that the original position
*of the west end line of the Conkling claim as marked by
lk'sts 3 and 4. thereof was 1364.5 feet distant from the

SILVER KING CO. v. CONKLING CO.
151.

Argument for Respondent and Appellee.

easterly end line, was not only well warranted but imperatively demanded by the evidence.
The Land Office is without jurisdiction to issue-a patent
which, by its terms, embraces a greater area than is
actually marked out upon the ground by the surveyor
making the patent survey at the instance of the applicant
for patent.
The language of the Conkling patent must be so interpreted, if possible, as to confine the ground within the
boundaries erected at the time of the patent survey to
mark the corners of the claim.
Considered in the light of the law requiring monuments to be erected to mark the corners ot mining claims
when surveyed for patent, the calls in the Conkling
patent, "thence second course south 60 deg. 45 min.
West 1500 feet to corner No, 3; thence third course south
21 deg. 9 min. east 600 feet to corner' No. 4;" are in fact
calls f~r monuments.
Mr. Edward B. Critchlow and Mr. Win. W. Ray, with
whom Mr. Win. D. McHugh and Mr. Win. H. King were
on the briefs, for respondent, and appellee:
The patent of the United States is the deed of the
-owner (United State8 v. Stone, 2 Wall. 525), and in the
absence of statute is to be construed in accordance with
the rules of the common law.
As to the corners Nos. 3 and 4, no monuments were
called for in the patent. The comers were merely abrupt
changes in direction. The point of beginning and corner No. 2 of the survey were fixed and in no wise in dispute. It was, therefore, not permissible to consider par0l
evidenQe or field notes of survey of the various claims.
Pollard v. Shively, 5 Colorado, 315-317; 3 Washburn,
Real Property, 5th ed., p. 428; Drew v. Swift, 46 N. Y.
204; Negbaur v. Smith, 44 N. J. L. 672; Chinoweth v.
Haskell, 3 Pet. 92; Boardman v. Reed, 6 Pet. 328; Bruck-

-OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Respondent and Appellee.

255 U. S.

ner v. Lawrence, 1 Douglas, 19; Wells v. Jackson Iron
Manufacturing Co., 47 N. H. 235.
As to agricultural land, from the beginning, it'has been
expressly provided by statute that the lines as actually
run upon the ground by the surveyor control the courses
and distances of the government patent. Rev. Stats.,
§ 2396.
No such statute was ever passed by Congress with
respect to mineral lands until the year 1904. Rev. Stats.,
§ 2327, which governed as to the descriptions or boundaries of claims conveyed by lode claim patents, expressly directed that the surveyor general should treat
as the boundaries of such claims the lines described and
platted.
It was the evident purpose of this statute that these
claims should be -so measured and platted that the descriptions placed in the patents and the plats in the surveyor general's office according therewith should con- ,
stitute the final record upon which reliance should be
placed, and such was the construction placed upon it,
prior to the amendment of 1904, by the Land Department. Mono Fraction Lode Mining Claim, 31. L. D. 121.
The original survey and plat and all the evidence of
acts done prior to the issuance of the patent were submitted to the Land Department; from these the Department determined what land the claimant was entitled
to receive; and the patent was the adjudication, by competent authority, that the precise land described in the
patent should be and was conveyed to the patentee.
This adjudication was final and conclusive, and not subject to any collateral attack. Uinta Tunnel Mining Co. v.
Creede & Cripple.Creek Mining Co., 119 Fed. Rep. 164,
166; King V. McAndrews, 111 Fed. Rep. 860, 863, 866;
Doe v. Waterloo Mining Co., 54 Fed. Rep. 935, 940, 56 Fed.
Elep. 685, 687;. Carson City Mining. Co. v. North Star.
Mining Co., -73 Fed. Rep. 597, 600; Golden Reward Mining

SILVER KING CO. v. CONKLING CO.
151.

155

Argument for Respondent and Appellee.

Co. v. Buxton Mining Co.., 79 Fed. Rep. 868, 874; St.
Louis Mining Co. v. Montana Mining-Co., 113 Fed. Rep.'
900.
Cases where, in an effort to change the description of
a patent, proof of the field notes and the location of the
monuments was made without objection, throw no light
upon the discussion. Resurrection Mining Co. v. Fortune
Mining Co., 129 Fed. Rep. 668; cf. Lindley on Mines,
§§ 777, 778; Miller v. Grunsky, 141 California, 441.
- Where there is any surface conflict whatever and there
is a failure to adverse, the issuance of the patent operates
as. a conclusive determination of priority in favor of the
patentee as to the conflict area. 3 Lindley on Mines,

§ 742.
The Act of 1904 was not intended to have any retroactive effect. If it were, it would be void under the Fifth
Amendment as applied to this case.-Inasmuch as the lot number was given to this claim
before any official survey was made, there is no foundation
'for the theory that, because the number is incorporated
in the patent, therefore the plain and unambiguous
description of the patent may be attacked by evidence
of the survey.
All the preliminary proceedings were for th6 purpose
of enabling the Land Department to decide what land
the claimant was entitled to receive; the patent was the
final determination.
By mentioning in connection With certain comers
monuments which mark the same, the patent shows that
it did not treat the word "cormer" as including a reference
to a monument'. ResurrectionMining Co. v. Fortune Mining Co., 129. Fed. Rep. 668, 672.
Only one of the two claims in conflict with the Conkling
claim was of prior location; but the date of location is
immaterial. Both were junior in time of patent, and iiP
their patent the conflict area was expressly excluded in

OCTOBER' TERM, 1920.
Argument for Respondent and Appellee.

<

j-

255 U. S.

favor of the Conkling. Under these circumstances, the
superiority of the Conkling is conclusively established,
since their owners failed to adverse the Conkling appli-cation. 3 Lindley on Mines, § 742; Gwillim v. Donnellan,
115 U. S. 45.
Petitioner's main argument amounts to the assertion
that in all cases the jurisdiction of the Land Department
over mineral lands is a jurisdiction in rem- analogous to
the jurisdiction of the courts in proceedings of that
character, and that its jurisdiction in all such cases is
dependent upon the presence of certain essential elements
of jurisdiction; namely, an application; seizure and due
notice. In short, it is contended that any error or defect
in the seizure, or in other words, the survey and the posting of notice, is jurisdictional and fatal. 3 Lindley on
Mines, § 713; El Paso Brick Co. v. McKnight, 233 U. S.
250. The two authorities cited by no means sustain the
contention.
If the jurisdiction of the Department were thus limited,
every patent ever issued is subject to impeachment at any
time upon a showing, either that the officer who made
the survey made a false or an erroneous return in that
the boundaries were not actually marked, or that such
markings as were made were insufficient to distinctly
mark its limits, or that the required notice was never
posted upon the claim, or that its posting was defective.
An analysis of petitioner's argument on this question
'shows that it necessarily presupposes a lack of authority
on the part of the Department to adjudicate or determine
the boundaries of any claim. If petitioner's contentions
are correct the most that the Department could ever do
upon an application for patent -would be to deternine
that the.applicant; was. entitled to a conveyance from
the Government covering a parcel of land of uncertin
location, and, in so far as the Department was conderned,

SILVER KING CO. v. CONKLING CO.
151.

Argument for Respondent and Appellee.

of undeterminable boundaries, but which would be found
staked off upon the ground in a certain general locality.
Such a determination would and could not even be conclusive of the fact that there was a tract so staked, and;
should the question ever arise as to whether, or where,
the stakes had been set, it. would have to be determined
anew upon whatever evidence was then obtainable.
We assert the law to be that, not only was it within the
power, but it was the duty of the Department to determine and forever settle the boundaries of lands-conveyed
by patent, with certainty, and this not only in the interest
of the Government but in the interest of patentees as
well. Beard v. Federy, 3 Wall. 478; Craginv. Powell, 128
U. S. 691; Maxwell Land-Grant Case, 121 U. S. 325;
Stoneroad v. Stoneroad, 158 U. S. 240; Knight v. United
States Land Association, 142 U. S.161.
The rules of the Department antedating 1904 (see
those of April 28, 1891) indicate a policy to avoid the
doubts -and uncertainties which would be occasioned by
treating all of the unstable survey stakes as monuments,
and an intention that the description written in the patent,
the
record, should be in and of itself sufficient without final
a reference
to the plat. Sulphur Springs Quick Silver
Mine, 22 L. D. 715. This was consistent with Rev. Stats.,
§ 2325. The monuments, which are to mark distinctly
the boundaries of the claim at the time of the survey,
are expressly distinguished in that section from the natural
objects and permanent monuments with reference to which
the claim is to be identified in-'the patent description.
'It
is submitted that the judgment of the Land Department is as conclusive of- the fact that the survey monu-:
ments were -set and that, as set, they distinctly marked
the boundaries of the area ultimately patented, as it is
conclusive that the original location was properly marked
upon the ground, or that any other antecedent step in
the patent proceeding )Vas:regularly taken.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Respondent and Appellee.

255 U. S.

These survey stakes or monuments are in no sense
permanent (Byrne v. Slauson, 20 L. D. 43) nor are they
of such a character as to be properly classified with
natural objects as stable witiiesses, a reference to which
would at all times serve to identify the claim. In the
judgment of the Land Department the public survey
icorners and mineral monuments were more certain and
reliable guides.
In the wording of the grant, the fact that the field notes,
together with other evidence, had been deposited in the
Land Office, was mentioned by way of inducement merely,
and, were they by this reference made admissible, it would
follow that all of the proceedings in the Department are
subject to inspection and review. The lot number is
merely a convenient official name, given before the survey
to the area applied for and ultimately patented. Whatever significance may be attached to it, it refers only to
the lot as platted. And the petitioner did not see fit to
put the plat in evidence, but sought rather to go back
of both patent and plat to the field notes, in order to
raise a latent ambiguity and then, by extrinsic evidence,
to control them both. Beaty v. Robertson, 130 Indiana,
589; Cornett v. Dixon (Ky.), 11 S. W. 660; Jones v.
Johnston, .18 How. 150; Haley v. Martin, 85 Mississippi, 698.
The Department had not, prior to the passage of the
amendment, construed the law as authorizing the identification of patented areas by means of parol evidence
of the positions of the survey stakes without regard to
the calls in the patent. Mono FractionLode Mining Claim,
31 L. D. 121; United States v. Rumsey, 22 L. D. 101; St.
Lawrence Co. v. Albion-Co., 4 L. D. 117; Sinnot v. Jewett,
33 L. D. 91.Conceding the admissibility of the -evidence, it is
entirely insufficient to establish that the original survey
posts were set 135.5 feet short of their reported positions.

SILVER KING CO. v. CONKLING CO.
151.

Opinion of the Court.

The Solicitor General, Mr. Assistant Attorney General
Nebeker, and Mr. H. L. Underwood, Special Assistant to
the Attorney General, by leave of court, filed certain
suggestions on behalf of the United States.
MR.-JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a bill in equity brought by the respondent, the
Conkliig Mining Company, in order to establish its right
to a large body of ore found under the southwesterly
135.5 feet of its patent as laid out by courses and distafices,
and to obtain an account from the petitioner, which has
mined the ore, making a claim of right on its side. The
District Court dismissed';the bill. The decree was reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals. 230 Fed. Rep.
553. Thereupon a writ of certiorari was granted by this
Court. 250 U. S. 655. A short statement will be enough
to present the single issue that it is necessary to pass upon
here. The only ground upon which the Conkling Mining'
Company stands is that the ore is within the lines of its
patent extended vertically downward. If the patent
properly construed does not cover the land in question
the case is at an end.
The patent under which the Conkling Mining Company
gets its .title was granted to the Boss Mining Company
and so far &s material is as follows: It recites -that in
pursuance of the Revised Statutes, &c., there have been
deposited in the General Land Office of the United States
the plat and field notes of survey and the Certificate
No. 1697 of the Register of the local land office with other
evidence whereby it appears that the grantee duly entered
and paid for that certain mining claim known as the.
Conkling lode mining claim, designated by the Surveyor
General as Lot No. 689, "bounded, described, and platted
Beginning at corner No. 1 a pine
as follows .
post four inches square marked.0. 8. 689 P. 1. Thence"

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

by courses and distances northwesterly "to corner No. 2,
a pine post four inches square marked U. S. 689 P. 2,"
these two corners being undisputed. "Thence second
,course, south sixty degrees and forty-five minutes west
one thousand five hundred feet to corner No. 3. Thence
third course, south twenty-one degrees and nine minutes
east six hundred feet to corner No. 4." It then grants
"the said mining' premises hereinbefore described" and
all that portion of veins, lodes or ledges, "the tops or
apexes of which lie inside of the surface boundary lines of
said granted premises in said Lot No. 689" &c., with a
proviso confining "the right of possession to such outside
parts of said veins," etc., "to such portions thereof as lie
between vertical planes drawn downward through the
end lines of said Lot No. 689," &c.
. If ":corner No. 3" and "corner No. 4" are determined
by courses and distances alone the Conkling Mining
Company is entitled to prevail upon the question that
we are discussing. The Circuit Court of Appeals was of
opinion that the patent represented an adjudication by
the Land Department that the lot was 1500 feet long and
600 feet wide without regard to the location of the other
posts which the field notes showed to exist but the patent
did not mention. The District Court on the other hand
held that evidence was admissible to show that there
were monuments at corners No. 3 and No. 4, held that
the monuments so established prevailed, and therefore
decided that the title of' the Conkling Mining Company
failed.
The decree of the District Court-appears to us to be
supported by the face of the patent and by consideration
of the circumstances. If a draughtsman were determining
his description by courses and distances oily it seems unlikely that he would insert "corner No. 3" and "corner
No. 4" where the direction changed, as it would add nothing to the change of direction in the boundary line. The

SILVER KING CO. v. CONKLING CO.
151.

Opinion of the Court.

words by themselves suggest a reference to an external
object, an interpretation greatly strengthened by the fact
that the same phrase in the first two instances of its use
referred to one in, terms; and 'coupled with evidence that
such an external ,object was found, the words at least tend
to prove that :a monument was meant. Of course evidence is admissible, if needed, to show that language is
to receive the interpretation that taken by itself it invites.
Furthermore the grant is of "the said mining premises
hereinbefore described," assumed in the same sentence
to be the lot designated by the Surveyor General as Lot
No.. 689' and, when it is observed that it is the duty of
the Surveyor General to see that the lot is identified by
monuments on the ground, the presumption becomes
almost irresistible that" corner No. 3" and corner No. 4"
mean corners determined as they are required to be
determined by the law.
One statutory foundation of a mining claim is that "the
location must be distinctly marked on the ground so that
its boundaries can be readily traced." Rev. Stats., § 2324.
To obtain a patent the claimant must file in the proper
land office along with his application "a plat and fieldnotes of the claim . . . made by or under the direction of the United States surveyor-general, showing accurately the boundaries of the claim .. .. which shall
be distinctly marked by monuments on the ground."
(Waskey v. Hammer, 223 U. S.85, 92.) He also must
file a certificate of the Surveyor General "that the plat is
correct, with such further description by such reference
to natural objects or permanent monuments as shall
identify the claim, and furnish an accurate description,7
to be incorporated in the patent." Rev. Stats., § 2325.
It is the reference to natural objects or monuments that
is to be incorporated. Before the application is filed
notice of it must be posted on the ground. The register
subsequently advertises the application in a newspaper,

162 '

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.

Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

&c., and if no adverse claim is made and -the other conditions are complied with the patent is granted. The
notice is jurisdictional. El Paso Brick Co. v. McKnight,
233 U. S. 250, 259. Obviously therefore a patent car
convey only the claim as to which notice has been given.
A notice of an application for a patent of land determined
by monuments cannot give priority to a junior location,
such as was that of the Conkling Mining Company, in
respect of land outside the monuments, to which adjoining claimants had no notice that the patent would purport, to extend.
The final receipt from the local land officer fixed the
claimant's rights. El Paso Brick Co. v. McKnight, 233
U. S. 250, 257; The failure of the subsequent patent to
the Boss Mining Company, issued February 23, 1892, to
describe the monuments at corners Nos. 3 and 4 was not
an adjudication in favor of an inconsistent description
but simply the following of a practice of abbreviating
by omission that had been adopted by the land office
in 1891, and which a few years later it was directed to
discard. The Act of April 28, 1904, c. 1796, 33 Stat. 545,
amending Rev. Stats., § 2327, making the monuments
the highest authority to which inconsistent descriptions
must give way, simply made more explicit or at most
carried a little farther the previous policy of the law.
We are -satisfied that evidence that the field notes, as the
regulations of the department required, showed marked
posts at the third and fourth corners was admissible,
and that witnesses properly were allowed to testify that
they found posts upon the ground. The District Judge
who saw and heard the witnesses was satisfied that they
told the truth and thereupon rightly determined that
fhe monuments so fixed controlled the courses and distances in the instrument evidencing the grant. See
Resurrection Gold Mining Co. v. Fortune Gold Mining Co,
129 Fed. Rep. 668; Grand Central Mining Co. v. Mammoth

UNITED STATES v. ROGERS.
Syllabus.

151.

Mining Co., 36 Utah, 364, 378, 379; Foss v. Johnstone,
158 California, 119, 128; McIver v. Walker, 4 Wheat. 444,,
447, 448; Heath v. Wallace, 138 U. S. 573. We see no
sufficient reason for disturbing the finding of the trial
court, upon the facts.
It may be that our decision will end this litigation.
If not, our decree is made without prejudice to such further
questions as may arise. We confine ourselves to the one
here determined.
The petitioner besides applying for the writ of certiorari
took an appeal, for greater caution. It is immaterial to
the petitioner in which way the relief to which it is entitled
is obtained. The appeal will be dismissed.
Decree reversed.
Appeal dismissed.

THE

CHIEF JUSTICE

took no part in the decision of this

case.

UNITED STATES v. ROGERS ET AL.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 147. Argued January 17, 18, 1921.-Decided February 28, 1921.

1. In a proceeding to condemn land, the owner is entitled, as part of
his just compensation, to interest on the confirmed award from the
time when the Government took actual possession.

P. 169.

* 2. Assuming that the local state rate of interest is not binding, there
was no objection to adopting it (6 per cent.) in this case. Id.
257 Fed. Rep. 397, affirmed.

case is stated in the opinion. The judgment below.
affirmed a judgment of the District Court.
THE

