UNITED STATES v. COHEN GROCERY CO.

81

Statement uf the Case.

UNITED STATES v. L. COHEN GROCERY
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT Or, MIS3OURI.
No. 324.

Argued October 18, 19, 1920.-Decided February 28, 1921.

1. Section 4 of the Food Control Act of August 10, 1917, as amended
October 22, 1919i in denouncing and attaching a penalty of fine or
imprisonment to the making by any person of "any unjast or unreasonable rate or charge in handling or dealing in or with any
necessaries," must be construed as forbidding and penalizing the
exaction of an excessive price upon the sale of a commodity. P. 88.
2. To that extent the section, since it sets up no ascertainable standard
of guilt, is repugnant to the Fifth and Sixth Amendments to the
Constitution, which require due process of law and that -persons
accused of crime shall be adequately informed of the nature and
cause of the accusation. P. 89.
3. The mere 6xistence of a state of war did not suspend these guarantees
of the Amendments or relieve Congress from their limitations. P. 88.
264 Fed.. Rep. 218, affirmed.

Tis is one of several cases (see post, 98, 100, 102,
104, 106, 108, 109) involving the constitutionality, in part,
of § 4 of the Act of August 10, 1917, c. 53, 40 Stat. 276,
known as the Food Control or Lever Act, as amended
by §2 of the Act of October 22, 1919, c. 80, 41 Stat. 297,
which is set out below.'
1"That it is hereby made unlawful for any person willfully to destroy
any necessaries for the purpose of enhancing the price or restricting
the, supply thereof; knowingly to commit waste or willfully to permit
preventable deterioration of any necessaries in or in eonnection with
.their production, manufacture, or distribution; to hoard, as defined
in section 6 of this Act' any necessaries; to monopolize or attempt to
monopolize, either locally or generally, any necessaries; to engage
in any discriminatory and unfair, or any deceptive or wasteful practice
or device,, or to make any unjust or unreasonable rate or charge in

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for -theUnited States.

255 U. S.

An indictment charged, in the first count, that the
Cohen Company, a dealer in sugar and other necessaries,
wilfully and feloniously made an unjust and unreasonable rate and charge in handling and dealing in a certain
necessary, to wit, sugar, in that it wilfully and feloniously
demanded of a person named, who made the purchase,
a stated sum for a stated amount of sugar, which, as the

company knew, was an unjust and unreasonable rate.
The second count described a similar transaction.
The defendant successfully demurred and the case was
brought here by the Government under the -Criminal
Appeals Act.
The Solicitor General for the United States:
The first contention made against the statute is that
the offense charged was not a crime under the laws of the
United States until the passage of the Act of 1919, and

that, at that time, Congress was without power to enact
handling or dealing in or with any necessaries; to conspire, combine,
agree, or arrange with any other person, (a) to limit the facilities for
transporting, producing, harvesting, manufacturing, supplying, storing, or dealng in any neessaries; (b) to restrict the supply of any
necessaries; (c) to restrict distribution of any necessaries; (d). to prevent, limit, or lessen the manufacture or production of any necessaries
in order to enhance the price thereof; or (e) to exact excessive prices
for any necessaries, or to aid or abet the doing of any act made unlawful by this section. Any person violating any of the provisions of this
section upon conviction thereof shall be fined not exceeding $5,000
or be imprisoned for not more than two years, or both: Provided, That
this section shall not ap~ply to any farmer, gardener, horticulturist,
vincyardist, planter, ranchman, dairyman, stockman, or other agriculturist, with respect to the farm products produced or raised upon
land owned, leased, or cultivated by him: Provided further, That
nothing in this Act shall be construed to forbid or make unlawful
collective bargaining by any cooperative association or other association of farmers, dairymen, gardeners, or other producers of farm
products with respect to the farm products produced or raised by its
members upon land owned, leased, or cultivated by them."

UNITED STATES v. COHEN GROCERY CO.
81.

83

Argument for the United States.

such legislation because actual hostilities in. our war with
Germany had ceased. The District Judge correctly held
that this contention was not tenable. Stewart v. Kahn,
11 Wall. 493, 506; Ruppert v. Caffey, 251 U. S. 264;
Hamilton v. Kentucky Distilleries Co., 251 U. S. 146.
The war conditions were such indeed as to make it
imperative that Congress exert whatever power it had to
encourage the production of necessaries and to regulate
their prices.
The regulation of the prices of the necessaries of life
is a proper governmental function which, when deemed
necessary for the prosecution of a war, Congress may
exercise. Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 113, 124; Tucker's
Blackstone, vol. 4, pp. 159, 160; Russell on Crimes, 7th
ed., vol. 2, p. 1919; King v. Waddington, 1 East, 143, 163;
Statute of Laborers, anno 1349, 2 Stat. of England, c.
vi, pp. 26, 28; Statute of Herrings, anno 1357, id., p. 117.
See also: 2 id., p. 162, anno 1363; 2 id., c. viii, pp. 313,
314, anno 1389; 3 id., c. xii, p. 196, anno 1433; 4 id.,
cc. viii, ix, p. 41, anno 1487; 4 id., c. v, p. 220, anno 1531;
4 id., c. ii, pp. 263, 264, anno 1533; 4 id.,c. xiv, p. 439,
anno 1536; 5 id., c. xxi, p. 347, anDo 1549; 12 id., c. xviii,
p. 77, anno 1709; Budd v. New York, 143 U. S. 517; Brass
v. Stoeser, 153 U. S. 391; German Alliance -InsuranceCo.
v. Lewis, 233 U. S. 389, 410.
It was impracticable to lay down any fixed and unvarying schedule of profits that would be reasonable.
No rule that would fix a-certain percentage of cost price
as a legitimate profit could, with-justice, be uniformly
applied. The rate of profit that may be legitimately
charged varies with the cost of handling different. articles
and in different lines of business.
The indictment is not open to the objection that it
does not sufficiently give the defendant notice of the
accusation, and is a good indictment unless it can be said
that the act upon which it is based is unconstitutional.

84

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for the United States.

255 U. S.

The Act of 1919 is not subject to the objection that
it is too vague and uncertain. The question is whether
Congress may declare it to be a criminal offense to charge
an unreasonable price for necessaries, leaving it to a .jury
to determine, from all the facts and circumstances, whether
a particular charge is reasonable or unreasonable; or
whether it is necessary for the act itself to provide a more
definite standard by which the jury must be governed.
If the reasonableness of a rate or charge. can be said
to be a fact, then undoubtedly it may be left to the determination of the jury under the circumstances disclosed
by the evidence.
Undoubtedly a -statute, creating an offense must use
language which will convey to the average mind information as to the act or fact which it s intended to make
criminal. United States v. Brewer, 139 U. S. 278, 288.
But statutes describing crimes must necessarily be more
or less general in their terms. It is impossible to fix rules
of conduct to cover every circumstance or condition
that mey arise. It is perhaps equally impossible to frame
a statute so that all men will agree as to just what circumstances will or will not constitute the crime denounced.
There are certain standards both of law and of fact which
may be assumed in enacting legislation. When these
standards are invoked, a question of fact is presented for
the jury to determine under the. particular facts of each
case, and it is no objection to the statute that it is necessary to invoke these external standards. Miller v. Strahl,
239 U. S. 426, 434.'
To determine from the evidence in a given case what
is reasonable or unreasonable is to'perform exactly the,,:
same function which a jury-performs when the question
of negligence is submitted to it.
That the language used in this statute is not so general
and uncertain as to be subject to constitutional objections
,would seem now to be definitely settled by recent rulings

UNITED STATES v. COHEN GROCERY CO.
81.

85

Opinion of the Court.

of this court. Waters-Pierce Oil Co. v. Texas, 212 U. S.
86; Nash v. United States, 229 U. S. 373.
If it can constitutionally be left to the jury to determine, from the facts and crc'imstances of a particular
case, whether a given contract or combination unduly
restricts competition or restrains trade, - it is difficult to
see any principle. upon which it can be denied that the
same jury may be left to determine, from a given state
of facts and circumstances, whether a particular price
demanded for necessaries is reasonable or unreasonable.
Later cases have emphasized the rule laid down in the
Nash Case. Omaechevarria v. Idaho, 246 U.. S. 343;
Arizona Employers' Liability Cases, 250 U. S. 400, 432.
Distinguishing: International Harveste, Co. v. Kentucky,
234 U. S. 216. United States v. Rosenblum, 264 Fed. Rep.
578, 582; United States v. Oglesby Grocery Co., 264 Fed.
Rep. 691, 695.
This principle, as applied to this case, is not a new
departure, but has consistently been applied to numerous
criminal laws. See United States v. Oglesby Grocery Co.,
supra.
Mr. Louis B. Sher and Mr. Chester H. Krum for defendant in error.
Mr. William D. Guthrie, Mr. Benjamin F. Spellman and
Mr. Bernard Hershkopf, by leave of court, filed a brief as
amici curie.
Mr. John A. Marshall, Mr. D. N. Straup, Mr. Joel F.
Nibley and Mr. Thomas Marioneaux, by ieave of court,
filed a brief as amici curie.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
Required on this direct appeal to decide whether Con,,"gress under the Constitution had authority to adopt

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

§ 4 of the Lever Act as refnacted in 1919, we reproduce
the section so far as relevant (Act of October 22, 1919, c.
80, § 2, 41 Stat. .297):
"That it is hereby made unlawful for any person willfully . . . to make any unjust or unreasonable rate
or charge in handling or dealing in or with any necessaries;
to conspire, combine, agree, or arrange with any other
(e) to exact excessive prices for any
person, ...
. Any person violating any of the
necessaries
provisions of thjs sectiog upon conviction thereof shall
be fined not exceeding $5,000 or be imprisoned for not
"
.
more than.two years, or both:
The text thus reproduced is followed by two provisos
exempting from the operation either -of the section or
of the act enumerated persons or classes of persons engaged in agricultural or similar pursuits.
Comparing the refnacted section with the original
text (Act of August 10, 1917, c. 53, § 4, 40 Stat. 276), it
will be seen that the only changes made by the reenactment were the insertion of the penalty clause and an
enlargement of the enumerated exemptions.
In each of two counts the defendant, the Cohen Grocery
Company, alleged to be a dealer in sugar and other necessaries in the City of St. Louis, was charged with violating
this section by wilfully and feloniously making an unjust
and unreasonable rate and charge in handling and dealing in a certain necessary, the specification in the first
count being a sale for $10.07 'of about 50 lbs. of sugar,
and that in the second, of a 100-pound bag of sugar for
$19.50.
The defendant demurred on the following grounds:
(a) That both counts were so vague as not to inform it of
the nature and cause of the accusation; (b) that the
statute upon which the-indictment Was based was subject to the same infirmity because it was so indefinite as
.not to enable it to be known what was forbidden, and

UNITED STATES v. COHEN GROCERY CO.
81.

87

Opinion of the Court.

therefore amounted to a delegation by Congress of legislative power to courts and juries to determine what acts
should be held to be criminal and punishable; and (c)
that as the country was virtually at peace Congress had
no power to regulate the subject with which the section
dealt. In passing on the demurrer, the court, declaring
that this court had settled that until the official declaration of peace there was a status of war, nevertheless
decided that such conclusion was wholly negligible as to
the other issues raised by the demurrer, since it was
equally well settled by this court that the mere status
of war did not of its own force suspend or limit the effect
of the Constitution, but only caused limitations, which the
Constitution made applicable as the necessary and appropriate result of the status of war, to become operative.
Holding that this latter result was not the case as to the
particular provisions of the Fifth and Sixth Amendments
which it had under consideration, that is, as to the prohibitions which those amendments imposed upon Congress against delegating legislative power to courts and
juries, against penalizing indefinite acts, and against
depriving the citizen of the right to be informed of the
nature and cause of the accusatlon against him, the court,
giving effect to the amendments in question, came to
consider the grounds of demurrer relating to those subjects. In doing so and referring to an opinion previously
expres.sd by it in charging a jury, the court said:
"Congress alone has -power to define crimes against
the United States. This power cannot be delegated either
to the courts or to the juries of this country. . .
"Therefore, because the law is vague, indefinite, and
uncertain, and because it fixes no immutable standard
of guilt, but leaves such standard to the variant views
of the different courts and juries which may be called
on to enforce it, and because it does not inform defendant. of the nature and cause of the accusation against it,

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the\Court.

255 U. S.

I think it is constitutionally invalid, and that the demurrer off6red by the defendant ought to be sustained."
The indictment was therefore quashed.
In cases submitted at about the. same time with the
one before us, and involving identical questions with those
here in issue, it is contended that the section does not embrace the matters charged. We come, therefore, on our
own motion in this case to dispose of that subject, since
if well founded the contention would render a consideration
of the constitutional questions unnecessary. The basis
upon which the contention rests is that the words of the
section do not embrace the price at which a commodity
is sold, and, at any rate, the receipt of such price is not
thereby intended to be penalized. We are of opinion,
however, that these propositions are without merit, first,
because the words of the section, as reenacted, are broad
enough to embrace the price for which a commodity is
sold, and second, because, as the amended section plainly
imposes a'penalty for the acts which it includes when
committed after its passage, the fact that the section
before its reenactment contained no penalty is of no
moment. This must be the case unless it can be said that.
the failure at one time to impose a penalty for a forbidden
act furnishes an adequate ground for preventing the
subsequent enforcement of a penalty which -is specifically
and unmistakably provided.
We are of opinion that the court below was clearly
right in ruling that the decisions of this court indisputably
establish that the mere existence of a state of war could
not suspend or change the operation upon the power of
Congress-of the guaranties and limitations of the Fifth
and Sixth Amendments as to questions such as we are
here passing upon. Ex parte Milligan,4 Wall. 2, 121-127;
Monongahela Navigatibn Co. v. United States, 148 U. -S.
312, 336; United States v. Joint Traffic AssOciation, 171

U. S. 505, 571; McCray v. United States, 195 U. S. 27, 61;

UNITED STATES v. COHEN GROCERY CO.
81."

89

Opinion of the Court.

United States v. Cre8, 243 U. S. 316, 326; Hamilton v.
Kentucky Distilleries Co., 251 U. S. 146, 156. It follows
that, in testing the operation of the Constitution upon
the subject here involved, the question of the existence
or non-existence of a state of war becomes negligible, and
we put it out of view.
The sole remaining inquiry, therefore, is the certainty
or uncertainty of the text in question, that is, whether
the words "That it is hereby made unlawful for any person willfully .
.
to.make any unjust or unreasonable rate or charge in handling or, dealing in or with &ny
necess'aries," constituted a fixing by Congress of an ascertainable standard of guilt and are adequate to inform
persons accused of violation thereof of the nature and
cause of the accusation against them. That they are not,
we are of opinion, so clearly results from their mere statement as to render elaboration on the subject wholly unnecessary. Observe that the section forbids no specific
or definite act. It confines the subject-matter of the
investigation which it authorizes to no element essentiallyinhering in the transaction as to which it provides. It:
leaves open, therefore, the widest conceivable inquiry, thescope of which no one can foresee and the result of which
no one can foreshadow or adequately guard against. In
fact; we see no reason to doubt the souiidness of the observat;on of the court below, in its opinion,, to the 'effect
that, to attempt to enforce: the section would be the exact
equivalent of an effort to carry out a statute which in
terms merely penalized and punished all acts detrimental
to the public interest when unjust and unreasonable in
the estimation of the courtand jury. And that this is
not a mere abstraction, finds abundant dehonstration
in the cases now before us, since in the briefs in these cases
the conflicting results which have arisen from the painstaking attempts of enlightened judges in seeking to carry
out the statute in cases brought before them are vividly

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

portrayed.

255 U. S.

As illustrative of this situation we append

in the margin a statement from one of the briefs on the
subject.' And again, this condition would be additionally
In United States v. Leonard, District Judge. Howe of the Northern
District of New York, held that in determining whether or not a price
was unreasonable, the jury should take into consideration "what prices
the defendants paid for the goods in the market-whether they bought
them in the ordinary course of trade, paying the market price at the
time, the length of time defendants have carried them in stock, the
expense of carrying, on the business, what a fair and reasonable profit
on the goods would be, and all the other facts and circumstances in
and about the transaction, but not how much the market price had advanced from the time the goods were purchased to the time they were sold."
In United States v. Oglesby Grocery jCo., District Judge Sibley, of
the Northern District of Georgia, said [264 Fed.. Rep. 691, 695]:
"The words used by Congress in reference to a well-established
course of'business fairly indicate the usual and established scale of charges
and prices in peace times as a basis, coupled with some inflexibility in
view of changing conditions. The statute may. be construed to forbid,
in time of war, any departure from the usual and established scale of
charges and prices in time of peace, which is not justified by some
special circumstance of the commodity or dealer."
Judge McCall, of the Western District of Tennessee, in his charge
to the grand jury, stated that, if a shoe dealer bought two orders of
exactly the same-kind of shoes at different times and at different prices,
the first lot at $8 per pair and the second lot after the price had gone
up to $12 per pair "and then he sells both lots of those shoes at eighteen
dollars, he is profiteering clearly upon the first lot of [shoes] that only
cost him $8. Now he does that upon the theory that if he sells these
shoes out and goes into the market and buys again he will- have to pay
the higher price, but that doesn't excuse him. He is entitled to make
a reasonable profit, but he certainly hasn't the right to take advantage
of the former low purchase and take the same profit on them that he
gets on the twelve dollar shoes."
In United Stales v. Myalt, District Judge. Connor, of the Eastern
District of North Carolina, said [264 Fed. Rep. 442, 450]:
"It will be observed that the statute does not declare it unlawful
to make an unjust or unreasonable profit upon sugar. The profit made
is not the test, and may be entirely irrelevant to the guilt of the defendant. He may, within the language of the statute, make an unreasonable and therefore unlawful 'rate or charge' without making

UNITED STATES v. COHEN GROCERY CO.
81.

91

Opinion of the Court.

obvious if we stopped to recur to, the persistent efforts
which, the records disclose, were made by administrative
officers,, doubtless inspired by a zealous effort to discharge
their duty, to establish a standard of their own to be usedas a basis to render the section possible of execution.
That it results from the consideration which we have
stated that the section before us was void for repugnancy
to the Constitution is not open to question. United States
v. Reese, 92 U. S. 214, 219-220; United States V. Brewer,
139 U. S. 278, 288; Todd v. United States, 158 U. S. 278,
any profit, or the rate or charge made may involve a loss to him upon
the purobasing price."
District Judge Hand, of the Northern District. of New York, in his
charge to the grand jury, said:
".Furthermore, it is not. the particular profits that the individual
himself makes which- is the basis of the unreasonable charge, but it
is whether the charge is such as gives unreasonable profit-not to him,
but if established generally in the trade. The law does not mean to
say that all people shall charge the same profit. If I am a particularly
skillful merchant or manufacturer and I can make profits which axe
greater than the run of people -in my business, I am allowed to make
those profits. So much am I allowed. -But if I am charging more than
a reasonable price, takifig the industry as a whole, I am. not allowed
to keep that profit because on other items I am sustaining a loss."'
In United States v. Goldberg, District Judge Bledsoe, of the Southern
District of California, charged the jury that, in passing on the question
of the reasonableness of prices for sugar the. jury should take into consideration, among other circumstances; the followingi
"That there was, if you find that there was., a market price here in the
community or generally with respect to the profit that normally should
be made upon sugar sold either by manufacturers or jobbers and
-xetailers."
" In Ultited States v. Culbeitson, etc.; Co., District Judge Rudkin, of
-

the Eastern District of Washington, on the trial of defendant on July
8, 1920, charged the jury, among other things, that asa matter of law,
defendant was entitled to sell its goods on the basis of the actual
market value at the time and place of sale over and above the expense
of haandling -the goods, and a-irasonable profit, and that the original
cost price became immaterial, except as it threw some light upon the
market value.

92

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

282; and see United States v. Sharp, 27 Fed. Cas. 1041,
1043; Chicago & Northwestern Ry. Co. v. Dey, 35 Fed.
Rep. 866, 876; Tozer v. United States, 52 Fed. Rep. 917,
919-920; United States v. Capital Traction Co., 34 App.
D. C. 592; United States v. Pennsylvania R. R. Co., 242
U. S. 208, 237-238.
But decided cases are referred to which it is insisted
sustain the contrary view. Waters-Pierce Oil Co. v.
Texas, 212 U. S. 86; Nash v. United States, 229 U. S. 373;
Fox v. Washington, 236 U., S. 273; Miller v. Strahl, 239
U. S. 426; Omaechevarria v. Idaho, 246 U. S. 343. We
need not stop to review them, however, first, because
their inappositeness is necessarily demonstrated when
it is observed that if the contention as to their effect were
true it would result, in view of the text of the statute, that
no -standard whatever was required, no information as
to the nature and cause of the accusation was'essential,
and that it was competent to delegate legislative power,
in the very teeth of the settled significance of the Fifth
and Sixth Amendments and of other plainly applicable
provisions of the Constitution; and second, because the
cases relied upon all Tested upon the conclusion that, for
reasons found to result either from the text of the statutes
involved or the subjects with which they dealt, a standard
of some sort was afforded. Indeed, the distinction betwee-, the cases relied upon and those establishing the
general principle to which we have referred, and which
we now apply and uphold as a matter of reason and authority, is so clearly pointed out in decided cases that we
deem it only necessary to cite them. International Harvester Co. v. Kentucky, 234 U. S. 216, 221; Collins v. Kentucky, 234 U. S. 634, 637; American Seeding Machine Co.
v. Kentucky,'236 U. S. 660, 662; and see United States v.
Pennsylvania R. R. Co., 242 U. S. 208, 237-238.
It follows from what we have said that, not forgetful
of our duty to sustain the constitutionality of the statute

UNITED STATES v. COHEN GROCERY CO.
81.

93

PITNEY and BRANDEIS, JJ., concurring.

if ground can possibly be found to do so, we are nevertheless compelled in this case to say that we thiik the court
below was clearly right in holding' the statute void for
repugnancy to the Constitution, and its judgment quashing the indictment on that ground must be, and it is,
hereby affirmed.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE DAY took no part in the 'Consideration
or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY and MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS concurred in the result, the former 'delivering the following

opinion in which the latter concurred:
I concur in the judgment of the court, but not in the
reasoning upon which it is rested.
Defendant was-indicted upon two counts, alike in form,
charging in each case that it "did wilfully and feloniously
make an unjust and unreasonable rate and charge in
handling and dealing in a certain necessary, to wit, sugar,"
in that it demanded, exacted and collected excessive
prices for specified quantities of sugar purchased from it,
in violation of the Lever Act (Act of October 22, 1919, c.
80, § 2, 41 Stat. 297, 298, amending § 4 Of Act of August 10,
1917, c. 53, 40 Stat. 276, 277). I am convinced'that the
exacting of excessive prices upon the sale of merchandise
is not within the meaning of that provision of the act
which is cited as denouncing it; that the act' does not
make it a criminal offense; that for this reason the demurrer to the indictment was properly sustained; andthat whether the' provision is in conflict with the Fifth or
Sixth Amendment is a question not necessarily raised;
and which ought not to be passed upon.
In order to appreciate the point it is necessary to quote
entire so much of the section as defines thecrimes thereby
denounced. It reads as follows:;

94

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
PrrzY and BRANDEas, JJ., concurring.

255 U. S.

"That it is hereby made unlawful for any person willfully to destroy any necessaries for the purpose of enhancing the price or restricting the supply thereof; knowingly to commit waste or willfully to permit preventable
deterioration of any necessaries in or in connection with
their production, manufacture, or distribution; to hoard,
as defined in section 6 -of this Act, any necessaries; to
monopolize -or attempt to monopolize, either locally or
' generally, any necessaries; to engage in any discriminatory
and unfair, or any deceptive or wasteful practice or device,
-or to make any unjust or unreasonable rate or charge in
handling or dealing in or with any necessaries; to conspire,
combine, agree, or arrange with any other person, (a)
to limit the facilities for transporting, producing, harvesting, manufacturing, supplying, storing, or dealing in any
necessaries; (b) to restrict the supply of any necessaries;
(c) to restrict distribution of any necessaries; (d) to prevent, limit, or lessen the manufacture or production of
an necessaries in order to enhance the price thereof;
or (e) to exact excessive prices for any necessaries, or
to aid or abet the doing of any act made unlawful by this
section. Any person violating any of the provisions of
this section upon conviction thereof shall be fined not
exceeding $5,000 or be imprisoned for not more than two
" etc.
years, or both: Provided, . .
For a definition of "hoarding," the section refers to § 6
of the original act (40 Stat. 278), which declares that
necessaries shall be deemed to be hoarded, within the
meaning of the act, when (inter alia) "withheld, whether
by possession or under any contract or arrangement,
from the market by any person for the purpose of unreasonably increasing or diminishing the price."
The court holds that the words "tc make any unjust
or unreasonable rate or charge in handling or dealing in
or with any neoessaries" are broad enough to embrace
the exaction of an excessive price upon a sale 'of such

UNITED STATES v. COHEN GROCERY CO.
81.

95

PITNEY and BANDEIS, JJ., concurring.

merchandise. Why Congress should employ so unskillful and ambiguous a phrase for the purpose when it would
have been easy to express the supposed purpose in briefer
and more lucid words, it is difficult ,to understand. If
the words were to be taken alone, and without reference
to the context, it might be possible to stretch their meaning so as to include the exaction of an excessive price.
But to do this with a statute defining a criminal offense
would, it seems to me, be inconsistent with established
rules for construing penal statutes; not only so, but it
would violate the rule that a statute is not to be so construed as to bring it into conflict with the Constitution,
unlass such construction is imperatively required by its
plain words. The construction adopted by the court is
not thus required. "To makea rate or charge in-handling
or dealing in or with" merchandise, imports the fixing
of compensation -for services, rather than the price at
which goods are to be sold. It .may refer to charges .for
buying, selling, hauling, handling, storage, or the like.
But the clause in question does not stand alone. It
forms a part of a section in which the question.of prices
is dealt with four times: once in the initial prohibition
against destroying any necessaries for the purpose of enhancing the price; a second time in the prohibition of
hoarding, defined as including a withholding from inarket
for the purpose of unreasonably increasing or diminishing
the price; a third time in the prohibition of a conspiracy
to limit the production. of necessaries in order to enhance
the, price; and, finally, in the prohibition of a conspiracy
"to exact excessive prices for any necessaries." It seems
to me clear, upon the plainest principles of construction,.
-that the change of phrase must Jbe deemed to import a
difference of purpose, and that "to make any unjust or
unreasonable rate or charge in handling or dealing in or
with any necessaries " must be taken to mean something
else than the exaction of an excessive price. It should be

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.

Prmwy and

BRANDEIS, JJ., concurring.

255 -U. 3.

observed how closely it is coupled with a cognate offense:
"to engage in any discriminatory and unfair, or any
deceptive or wasteful practice or device, or to make any
-unjust or unreasonable rate or charge in handling or
dealing in or with any necessaries." Evidently the words
9"in handling or dealing," etc., qualify "wasteful practice
or device," as well as "unjust or unreasonable rate or
charge."
That it is not altogether evident what was intended to
be included within "unjust or unreasonable rate or charge
in handling or dealing in or with any necessaries," may
be conceded. So much the more reason for not extending the words by construction so as to make criminal
that which is not clearly within their meaning; and for
not giving to them a meaning which brings the act into
conflict with, the Constitution;-and for not expanding
the unconstitutional reach of the act, supposing that
even without the particular application now made of the
quoted words it would be repugnant to the fundamental
law.
'It is to my mind plain that § 4 was not intended to
control the individual dealer with respect to the prices
that .he might exact, beyond prohibiting him from destroying any necessaries for the purpose of enhancing the price,
and from withholding them from the market for a like
purpose. So long as he acts alone he is left uncontrolled
except by the ordinary processes of competition, his own
sense of fairness, and his own interest. A conspiracy
with others to exact excessive prices is an entirely different
matter, and that is clearly prohibited.
And this brings me to another point: Section 4 naturally divides itself into two parts; the first portion denounces a number of substantive offenses; the second
portion denounces a conspiracy to commit any one of a
number of offenses, but these do not in terms include
any of the offen~es specifically prohibited in the earlier

UNITED STATES v. COHEN GROCERY CO.
81.

PITNEY

and

BRANDEIS,

97

JJ., concurring.

portion. This, as it seems to me, is significant. Section
37 of the Criminal Code (Act of March 4, 1909, c. 321, 35
Stat. 1088, 1096), makes it criminal for two or more persons to conspire to commit any offense against the United
States, if one or more of them do any act to effect the
object of the conspiracy. Hence it was not necessary
for Congress to declare in the Lever Act that a conspiracy
to commit any of the offenses defined in the first part
of § 4 was punishable criminally.- But it proceeded in
the latter part to declare that a conspiracy to do any
one of certain other acts, should be criminal. It seems
to me too plain for argument that, under the cireumstances, the inclusion in that part of the section of certain
acts as forming the object of a criminal conspiracy
amounts to a legislative declaration that, in the absence
of conspiracy, those acts are not intended to be punished
criminally. One of them is "to exact excessive prices for
any necessaries.'
Still further: Sections 14 and 25 of the original act
(40 Stat. 281, 284) specifically deal with the question of
official price-fixing. of certain articles of prime necessitywheat, coal, and coke--and furnish additional evidence
that in the framing of this act, when Congress had pricefixing in mind and the regulation of "prices," it employed
that simple term, and that it did not refer to prices in
the provision of § 4 upon which the indictment in this
case rests.
For these reasons, 1 regard it as unnecessary to pass.
upon
the question whether that provision is in conflict
with the
Constitution of the United States.

