OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Syllabus.

255 U. S.

PAYNE, SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR, ET AL.
v. CENTRAL PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA.
No. 17. Argued October 6, 1920.-Decided February 28, 1§21.
1. A selection.duly made and perfected by the proper railroad company, under the California-Oregon Railroad Company land grant
act (July 25, 1866, c. 242, 14 Stat.. 239), of indemnity lands open
at the time to such selection, and in lieu of place land actually lost,
is not to be likened to the initial step toward acquiring title under
a public land law by future compliance, but rather to the concluding
step by which, after full compliance, the right to the title is earned.
P. 234.
2. The ultimate obligation of the Government in respect of the indemnity lands is on the same plane as that respecting the lands in place;
the only difference is in the mode of identification, lands in place
being identified by filing the map of definite location, indemnity
lands by selections made in lieu of losses in the place limits. P. 236.
3. In providing that such selections shall be made under the direction
of the Secretary of the Interior, the act merely subjects them to the
general rule that the administrative execution of all public land
laws is to be under his supervision and direction, but clothes him
with no discretion to enlarge or curtail the rights of the grantee or
to substitute his judgment for the will of Congress manifested in
the act. 'P. 236.
4. The Act of June 25, 1910, c. 421, 36 Stat. 847, applies to "public
lands;" and does not authorize the withdrawal as a power site of
lands duly selected under the Califorinia-Orcgon Grant, supra.
P. 237.
5. A suit by a railroad company .9gainst the Secretary of the Interior
and the Commissioner of the General Land Office to enjoin them
from canceling such an. indemnity selection, held not a suit against
the United States. P. 238.
6. The decree should require the defendants to dispose of the selection
on its merits without reference to the power site withdrawal, rather
than forbid cancelation of the selection. P. 238.
46 App. D. C. 374, affirmed,with a modification.

PAYNE v. CENTRAL PAC. RY. CO.
228.

Argument for Appellants.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Nebeker, with whom
Mr. H. L. Underwood, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, was on the brief, for appellants:
Until approval by. the Secretary of the Interior no
rights as against the United States are acquired ui~der
an indemnity selection list. Sioux City & St. PaulR. R. Co.
v. Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Ry. Co., 117 U. S.406,
408; Wisconsin Central R. R. Co. v. Price County, 133
U. S.496, 511, 512, 513; United States v. Missouri, Kansas
& Texas Ry. Co., 141 U. S. 358, 374, 375; New Orleans
Pacific Ry. Co. v. Parker, 143 U. S.42, 57, 58; Osborn v.
Froyseth, 216 U. S. 571, 577; Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v.
McComas, 250 U. S.387, 391, 392; Humbird v. Avery, 195
U. S. 480, 507.
The word "selection" is commonly used to refer to
an application to select, and from that arises a misapprehension as to what is meant in many of the adjudicated cases by the expression that title under such a filing
vests upon selection. In such cases the word "selection"
means approved -selection. As was said in Wisconsin
Central R. R. Co. v. Price County, supra, 514, "They
[selections] are not considered as made until they have
been approved, as provided by statute, by the Secretary
of the Interior."
What is the effect then of the mere filing of an indemnity
selection? Its only effect, we submit, is to give the selector
a preference right to the land as against one tendering a
filing thereafter, unless such latter filing is supported by a
settlement or right initiated previously to the indemnity filing. Weyerhaeuserv. Hoyt, 219 U. S.380, 387, 388, 391,392.
But it is important to note that this principle pertains
to the relative rights of individuals seeking to acquire
title from the Government but it can not be invoked
against the Government itself. This distinction differen-

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Appellants.

255 U. S.

tiates the instant case from Weyerhaeuser v. Hoyt, supra,
and what is said in the opinion in that case as to the doctrine of relation and the scope of the inquiry of the Secretary of the Interior in passing upon the selection must
be taken in connection with the question there under
consideration, namely, the relative rights of conflicting
claimants. It is also important to note that in the Weyerhaeuser Case the selection had'been approved and therefore the doctrine of relation was clearly applicable. In
the case at bar there has been no approval of the selection
and therefore there is nothing upon which to base an
application of the doctrine of relation.
That the filing of an indemnity selection does not
create rights as against the United States is also shown
by what is said in Stalker v. Oregon Short Line.R. R. Co.,
225 U. S. 142. See also Minneapolis, St. Paul &c. Ry.
Co. v. Doughty, 208 U. S. 251.
The well-established rule that a claimant to public
land, who has done all that is required to perfect his
claim, acquires rights against the Government, can have
no application to this case; for no legal or equitable title
vested as to the lands sought under the indemnity selection, because the same was ne"ver approved. It was,
therefore, incumbent on' the Secretary to ascertain the
status of the lands at the time when the indemnity filing
was taken up by him for final action.
The withdrawal of the lands in controversy and their
inclusion in a power-site reserve was authorized and valid
and constituted a bar to the approval of the selection
list. United States v. Midwest Oil Co., 236 U. S. 459;
Act of June 25, 1910, c.421, 36 Stat. 847. Section 2 of
this act particularly enumerates the kinds of claims or
filings which are exempted from withdrawals.
Had Congress intended that other exceptions should
be recognized, it would have so declared. See Administrative Ruling, 43 L. D. 293.

PAYNE v. CENTRAL PAC. RY. CO.
228.

Opinion of the Court.

Furthermore, as only an inchoate right was initiated
by the filing of the indemnity list, the withdrawal was
superior to it and barred its consummation. Such a filing
is not like homestead or other claims upon which final
prQofs have been submitted and the claimant has done
all that is required of him under the law, thus vesting
him with a title equivalent in equity to that obtained by
patent. It bears a closer analogy to a claim based on the
preemption law. Frisbie v. Whitney, 9 Wall. 187; Yosemite Valley Case, 15 Wall. 77; Shepley v. Cowan, 91 U. S.
330, 338; Russo-American Packing Co. v. United States,
199 U, S. 570; Wagstaff v. Collins, 97 Fed. Rep. 3, 8; Campbell v. Wade, 132 U. S. 34, 38. The doctrine of relation,
was sought to be invoked in United States v. Morrison,
240 U. S. 192.
The decree of the Court of Appeals directing an order
for. the issuance of patent was erroneous, since the United
States was not a party and the effect of that decree would
be to deprive the United States of the title to its lands.
The case falls within the rulings of this court. in LoUisiana
v. Garfield, 211 U. S. 70, and New Mexico v. Lane, 243
U. S. 52.
Mr. A. A. Hoehling and Mr. Frank Thunen, w'ith whom
Mr. C. F. R. Ogilby was on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opiaion of

the court.
This is a suit to enjoin the Secretary of the I aterior and
the Commissioner of the General Land Office from canceling a selection of indemnity lands under a railroad land
grant. The trial court dismissed the bill and the Court of
Appeals reversed that decree and directed that an injunction issue. 46 App. D. C. 374. An appeai under § 250,
par. 6, of the Judicial Code brings the case here.

232

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255T. S.

The allegations of the bill were admitted by a motion
to dismiss, upon which the. defendants announced their
purpose to stand -and the case as thus made is as-followg:.
By the Act -ofJuly 25, 1866, c. 242, 14 Stat. 239, a grant
of public lands in California and Oregon was made "for
the purpose of aiding in the construction" of a line of railroad from a point in Sacramento Valley to Portland "and
to secure the safe and speedy transportation of the mails,
troops, munitions of war, and public stores" over such
line. The part of the grant in California was made to the
California and Oregon Railroad Company, its successors
and assigns, and the part in Oregon to another company.
The grant was in present terms7" there be, and hereby is,
granted" -and was of "every alternate section of public
land, not mineral, designated by odd numbers" within
designated limits on each side of the line. With this was
coupled a provision that "when any of said alternate sections or parts of sections shall be found to have been
granted, sold, reserved, occupied by homestead settlers,
pre-empted, or otherwise disposed of, other lands, designated'as aforesaid, shall be selected by said companies in
lieu thereof, under the direction of the Secretary of the
Interior, in alternate sections designated by odd numbers
as aforesaid, nearest to and not more than ten miles beyond
the limits of said first-named alternate sections. ' The line
of the road wa§ to be definitely located by filing a map with
the Secretary of the Interior; and the work of construction
was to be completed in sections of twenty miles within a
time named, -which was extended to July 1, 1880, by an
amendmeni of June 25, 1868, c. 80, 15 Stat. 80. The completion of each. section was to be ascertained and reported
by commissioners aphointed by the President, whereupon
patents for the lands coterminous therewith wire to.be issued. The railroad was to be and remain "a public highway for the use of the government of the United States,
free of all: toll or other charges" for the transportation of

PAYNE v. CENTRAL PAC. RY. CO.
228.

Opinion of the Court.

its property or troops. An assent to the act on the part
of each grantee was to be filed within one year after its
passage.
The California and Oregon Railroad Company duly assented to the act, definitely located its part of the line by
filing the required map, and constructed, completed and
equipped that part of the railroad within the extended
time. The completion was duly reported by the commissioners and was recognized by the President. In addition,
that company and its successors have complied with .the
act in all other respects. The Central Pacific Railway
Company, the plaintiff, became the legal successor of that
company in 1899 and holds its rights, title and interest
under the grant. The part of the road in Oregon also was
completed, but that is not of present concern.
In the process of adjusting the grant it has developed
that many of the designated sections in the place limits
were lost to the grant by reason of other disposals, homestead settlements and preemption claims antedating the
definite location of the line of the road, thereby making it
necessary to resort to the indemnity limits to satisfy the
grant. The present ascertained losses amount to thousands of acres and it is certain that further substantial
losses will develop as the adjustment proceeds. As yet it
is impossible to determine even approximately .the total
losses, because a material part of the grant is still unsurveyed; and this makes it uncertain whether all can be
made good from the lands available for indemnity.
The lands in question were selected by means of an indemnity list filed in the local land office February 24,1910,
and the selection was in lieu of losses specified in the list
which were actual and entitled the plaintiff to indemnity.
The lands selected-are in the indemnity limits and admittedly non-mineral, and at the time of selection were
such as could be selected to supply the losses specified.
The list was accompanied by the requisite sustaining proofs

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

and conformed in all respects to the regulations embodying
the -directions of the Secretary of the Interior upon the
subject. The plaintiff paid the fees collectible thereon and
the local land officers approved the list and promptly forwarded it and the accompanying proofs to the General
Land Office with the usual certificates and endorsements.
It remained pending in that office until January 16, 1915,
when the Commissioner ordered its cancelation solely on
the ground that in the meantime the selected lands had
been included in a temporary executive withdrawal for a
water-power site under the Act of June 25, 1910, c. 421, 36
Stat. 847. The plaintiff appealed to the Secretary of the
Interior and he affirmed the Commissioner's action. A
reconsideration was sought and denied, and the plaintiff
then brought this suit.
It is not questioned that, had the selection been reached
for consideration before the withdrawal, it would have
been the duty of the Commissioner and the Secretary to
approve it and pass the lands to patent; nor that, if the
withdrawal be not an obstacle, it still is their duty to do so.
But it is insisted that so long as the selection was without
the Secretary's actual approval it gave no right as against
the Government and that the withdrawal made while it
was as yet unappro*ved became a legal obstacle to
its approval. In this there is an obvious misconception of the office and effect of the selection, and the
misconception is particularly shown in the brief for the
appellants, where the selection is treated as only a preliminary land application or filing. Counsel there say:
"What is the effect then of the mere filing of an indemnity
selection? Its only effect, we submit, is to give the selector a preference right to the land as against one tendering a filing thereafter."
Rightly speaking, the selection is not to be likened to
the initial step of one who wishes to obtain the title to
public land by future compliance with the law, .but rather

PAYNE v. CENTRAL PAC. RY. CO.
228.

Opinion of the Court.

to the concluding step of one who by full compliance has
earned the right to receive the title. Referring to a similar
grant and the relative obligations of the Government and
the grantee, it was said in Burke v. Southern Pacific R. R.
Co., 234 U. S. 669, 679-680: "The act did not follow the
building of the road butpreceded it. Instead of giving a
gratuitous reward for something already done, the act
made a proposal to the company to the effect that if the latter would locate, construct and put into operation a designated line of railroad, patents would be issued to the company confirming in it the right and title to the public lands
falling within the descriptive terms of the grant. The purpose was to bring about the construction of the road, with
the resulting advantages to the Government and the public, and to that end provision was made for compensating
the company, if it should do the work, by patenting to it
the lands indicated. The company was at liberty to accept
or reject the proposal. It accepted in the mode contemplated by the act, and thereby the parties were brought
into such contractual relations that the terms of the proposal became obligatory on both. Menotti v. Dillon, 167
U. S. 703, 721. And when, by constructing the road and
putting it in operation, the company performed its part of
the contract, it became entitled to performance by the
Government. In other words, it earned the right to the
lands described." And speaking specially of the right to
indemnity lands under such a grant, it was said in United
States v. Southern Pacific R. R. Co., 223 U. S. 565, 570:
"What a railroad is to be indemnified for may be fied as
of the moment of the grant, but what it may elect when
its right to indemnity is determined depends on the st te of
the lands selected at the moment of choice. Of courage the
railroad is limited in choosing by the terms of the hidemnity grant, but the so-called grant is rather to be described
as a power. Ordinarily no color of title is gained until the
power is exercised. When it is exercised in satisfaction of

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

a meritorious claim which the Government created upon
,valuable consideration and which it must be taken to have
intmnded to satisfy (so far as it may be satisfied within.7 the
-territorial limits laid down), it seems to us that lands within
those limits should not be excluded simply because in a
different event they would have been subject to a paramount claim."
The ultimate obligation of the Government in respect

of the indemnity lands is on the same plane as that respecting the lands in place. The only difference is in the mode
of identification. Those in place are identified by filing
the map of definite location, and the indemnity lands by
selections made in lieu of losses in the place limits. St.
Paul& Sioux City R. R. Co. v. Winona & St. PeterR. R. Co.,
112 U. S. 720, 731-733; Southern Pacific R. R. Co. v. Bell,
183 U. S. 675, 687. The selections are to be made by the

grantee, not by the Secretary of the Interior. True, the
act provides that they shall be made under the Secretary's
direction, but this merely applies to them the general rule,
announced in Rev. Stats., §§ 441, 453, 2478, that the administrative execution of all public land laws is to be under
his "supervision" and "direction." Catholic Bishop of
Nesqually v. Gibbon, 158 U. S. 155, 166. Its purpose is to
make sure that, in accord with that power of supervision
and direction, he is to see to it that the right of selection is
not abused, that claims arising out of prior settlement and
the like are not disturbed, that no indemnity is given except for actual losses of the class intended, and that the
lands selected are such as are subject to selection. But of
course it does liot clothe him with any discretion to en-

large or curtail the rights of the grantee, nor to substitute
his judgment for the will of Congress as manifested in the
granting act. Cornelius v. Kessel, 128 U. S. 456, 461;i
Orchard v. Alexander, 157 U. S. 372, 383; Williams v.
United States, 138 U. S. 514, 524; Daniels v. Wagner, 237
U. S.547, 557-561; Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. McComas,

PAYNE v. CENTRAL PAC. RY. CO.
228.

Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S. 387,392-393. The cases cited as making for a
different conclusion respecting the Secretary's discretion
were examined and that view of them rejected in Weyerhaeuoerv. Hoyt, 219 U. S. 380, 387-388, and Danielsv. Wagner, 237 U. S. 547, 557-561. In the Weyerhaeuser Case it
was held that the authority conferred on the Secretary respecting the selection of indemnity lands "involved not
only the power but implied the duty to determine the lawfulness of the selections as of the time when the exertion of
the authority was invoked by the lawful filing of the list of
selections."
As before shown, this indemnity selection was made in
full compliance with the directions promulgated by the
Secretary, was of lands subject to selection, and was based
on actual losses in the place limits adequate to sustain
it. The railroad then had been constructed and equipped
as required by the granting act and- nothing remained
to be done by the grantee or its successor to fulfil the conditions of the grant and perfect the right to a patent. The
rule applicable in such a situation is that "a person who
complies with all the requisites necessary to entitle him to
a patent for a particular lot or tract is to be regarded as the
equitable owner thereof." Wirth v. Branson, 98 U. S.118,
121; Benson Mining Co. v. Alta Miniig Co., 145 U. S.
•428, 432. This rule has been applied and enforced where
the Secretary through an error of law declined to approve
and give effect to lawful selections and certified the lands
for the use of another claimant,-the court saying that
the Secretary could not thus deprive the selecting company of "rights which became vested by its selection of
those lands." St. Paul & Sioux City R.R. Co. vi Winona
& St. Peter R. R. Co., 112 U. S. 720.
The act under whIch the subsequent power-site withdrawal was made is confined to "public lands," a term
uniformly regarded as not including lands to which rights
have attached and become vested through full compliance

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

with an applicable land law. Newhall v. Sanger, 92 U. S.
761, 76.; Minnsota v. Hitchcock, 185 U. S. 373, 391;
United States v. Hemmer, 241 U. S. 379, 385-386. Besides, to apply the act to the lands in question, lawfully
earned and selected as they were, would work such an
interference with private rights as plainly to require that
it be construed as not including them. Wilcox v. Jackson,
13 Pet. 498, 513; Lytle v. Arkansas, 9 How. 314, 333, 335;
Sinking-Fund Cases, 99 U. S. 700, 718-719; United States
v. Jin Fuey Moy, 241 U. S. 394, 400.
We are asked to say that this is a suit against the United
States and therefore not maintainable without its consent, but we think the suit is one to restrain the appellants
from canceling a valid indemnity selection through a mistaken conception of their authority and thereby casting
a cloud on the plaintiff's title. Ballinger v. Frost, 216
U. S. 240; Philadelphia Co. v. Stimson, 223 U. S. 605,
619-620; Lane V. Watts, 234 U. S.525, 540.
Our conclusion is that in giving effect to the withdrawal as against the prior selection, which admittedly
was valid when made, the appellants departed from a
plain official duty, and that to avoid the resulting injury
to the plaintiff, for which no other remedy is available,
an injunction should issue directing a disposal of the
selection on its merits unaffected by the withdrawal.
Such an injunction, we think, is better suited to the occasion than that indicated by the Court of Appeals. In
other respects the decree of that court is
Affirmed.

