DETROIT UNITED RAILWAY v. DETROIT.

171

Syllabus.

170..

of verdict given to them, interest at 6 per cent. was to,
be added from April 19, 1912, the date of appropriation.
It appears that by agreement a separate order requiring
the deposit of interest was entered in order to allow a
writ of error upon that point, and in connection with the
above form of verdict the jurors were instructed to assess
compensation as of the value of the land on April 19, 1912,
and not to add interest from that time to the date of the
verdict. Afterwards a final judgment was entered in the
District Court requiring a deposit of the amount of the
verdict, and a separate order was made directing payment-of interest from April 19, 1912. A writ of error was
prosecuted from the Circuit Court of Appeals where the
judgment of the District Court was affirmed. 257 Fed.
Rep. 401.
The Circuit Court of Appeals recited the facts of the
case, and held that it was ruled by United States v. Rogers,
No. 147, just decided. We agree with this conclusion,
and the jtidgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.

DETROIT

UNITED RAILWAY
DETROIT ET AL.

v.

CITY

OF

APPEAL FROMf THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.
No. 492.

Argued January 5, 6, 1921.-Decided February 28, 1921.

1. Action of a city requiring a street railway company, upon reasonable notice, to remove its tracks and other property from the streets,
does not invade the company's contractual and property rights in
violation of the Constitution, if its franchise to use the streets was
granted by the city for a definite period which has expired. P. 174.

Detroit United Railway v. Detroit, 229 U. S. 39.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Counsel for Appellant.

255 U. S.

. Certain

permits, an ordinance and a former decision considered and
held, not to have created any right in the plaintiff street railway,
as against the City of Detroit, to continue operating in streets where
its franchises had expired. P. 174.
3. A street car company, after expiration of its franchise, cannot
acquire new franchise rights by estoppel against the city and its
people, through the expenditure with their knowledge of large sums
on its railway, where the state constitution forbids the city to grant
franchises not revocable at its will unless authorized by a popular
vote. P. 1-75. Denver v. Denver Union Water Co., 246 U. S. 178,
and Detroit United Railway v. Detroit, 248 U. S. 429, explained.
4. The City of Detroit, in pursuance of its charter, passed an ordinance
for the acquisition,' wnership, maintenance and operation by the
city of a street railway system, embracing, among others, certain
streets occupied by plaintiff street railway company on which, however, its franchises had expired, and the proposition was duly submitted to the electors and adopted by the requisite majority. Held:
(a) That a purpose therein to force the plaintiff to sell its tracks,
etc., at less than their fair value, would not involve any violation
of its constitutional rights, since the city was not bound to purchase,
or the company to sell, and each might make its own -bargain. P.
176. (b) Furthermore, under the charter, any contract to purchase
such property must be approved at another popular election before
it could be effective. P. 177. (c) Motives of city officials and of
electors in acting on the proposal were not proper subjects for judicial
inquiry. P. 178. (d) That misinformation alleged to have been
publicly given the voters, improperly and fraudulently, 'by the
common council, and to have misled them as to the purpose and
effect of the election, but which was not complained of before the
election, could not vitiate it. P. 179.
Affirmed.
THis was a direct appeal from a decree of the District

Court, sustaining a motion to dismiss the bill, and dismissing it, for want of equity. The case is stated in the
opinion.

Mr. Charles E. Hughes, with whom Mr. Elliott G.
Stevenson, Mr. John C. Donnelly, Mr. William L. Carpenter, Mr. P. J. M. Hally and Mr. Hinton E. Spalding

were on the brief, for appellant.

DETROIT UNITED RAILWAY v. DETROIT.
171.

173

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Clarence E. Wilcox and Mr. Alfred Lucking for
appellees.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellant, plaintiff below, sets forth in its bill that
it is the owner of a system of street railways in the city of
Detroit, and suburban lines running from said city. The
suit was brought in the District Court, to enjoin the city_
of Detroit and the, other defendants, municipal officials,
from acquiring or constructing a system of street railways,
which had been provided for by an ordinance of the city,
with an issue of $15,000,000 of its bonds for that purposp
and approved by the requisite majority at a municipal
election.
The grounds of relief, briefly stated, are: That establishment of the system and the issue of the bonds
should be enjoined at the instance of the plaintiff because the ordinance was not legally adopted by the voters
of the city of Detroit and; if carried into effect, as proposed, and by the methods which brought about its
adoption, a deprivation of plaintiff's property rights
without due process of law in violation of the Fourteenth
Amendment to the Constitution of the United States
would result.
The District Court -maintained the jurisdiction upon
the federal ground alleged, and dismissed the bill upon
motion in the nature of a demurrer. The case is brought
to this court by direct appeal because of the constitutional
question involved.
The bill is very voluminous and abounds in argumentative statements attacking the passage of the ordinance,
and the good faith of the officials concerned in bringing
about its enactment. Among the streets, proposed to be
occupied by the city, are those upon which it is'alleged
the trackage and property rights of the complainants are

174

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

-ought to be acquired, and upon which the franchise
grants
the Street Railway Company have expired.
This ofcourt
in Detroit United Railway v. Detroit,
229
U. S. 39, affirming the judgment of the Supreme Court
of Michigan in the same case, 172 Michigan, 136, held
that where a street railway company, operating in the
streets of the city under a franchise granted for a definite
period, has enjoyed the full term of the grant, the municipality may, upon failure of renewal of the grant, require
the company within a reasonable time to remove its
tracks and other property from the streets, without impairing any contractual obligations protected by the
Federal Constitution 'ordepriving the street railway company of its property without due process of law. We see
no occasion to depart from the principles announced in
tlat case. The decree is in the record and, so far as
anything appears, is still in full force and effect. Ifthe
courts of'Michigan shall see fit to carry it into execution
we find nothing in the Federal Constitution which would
make its enforcement a deprivation of due process of law.
The Railway Company claims to have acquired property rights in the streets of the city, upon which its
franchises have expired, by reason of matters set out in
the bill and supported in the argument submitted by
the appellant. Reference is made to certain so-called
day-to-day arrangements, by which continued operation
was permitted notwithstanding the expiration of franchise
rights. But an examination shows that construction and
operation under such agreements gave the Railway Company no extended franchises in the streets, because it was
expressly provided that the permits granted might be
revoked, and that action under the day-to-day agreement
should not waive the rights of either party.
Rights to remain in the streetq are also claimed under
the so-called Kronk Ordinance, which was before this
court in Detroit United Railway v. Detroit, 248 U. S. 429,

DETROIT UNITED RAILWAY v. DETROIT.
171.

175

Opinion of the Court.

in which this court, while reaffirming the principles laid
down in Detroit United Railway v. Detroit,229 U. S., supra,
found that the city had not up to that time availed itself
of the right to compel the removal of the tracks in streets
where the company had no franchise, but had passed an
ordinance looking to the continued operation by the company of the street railway system for a limited period; and,
that while it acted under this ordinance there was the
equivalent of a grant to operate during the life of the
ordinance, entitling the company to a fair return; that
the ordinance by its express terms provided for its amendment or repeal, and, that unless amended or repealed, it
should remain in force for the period of one year. We do
not perceive how that ordinance can now give rights to
the company in the streets where the franchises have
expired.
The chancery suit brought in the Wayne County Circuit Court in the name of the city of Detroit, in which a
decree was granted,. is also set up. An examination of
that decree, which is attached to the bill, satisfies us
that it was intended only to provide a temporary arrangement by which cars might be operated on the street
railway system of the complainant. It is expressly stated
in the decree that it shall not affect any fundamental
rights of the parties in and to the streets of 'the city of
Detroit as 'they at that time existed; the intention being
to provide. for the rate of fare at which cars should be
operated; the decree being considered only a temporary
solution of the problem before the court.
. Allegations are made which are supposed uo have the
effect of estopping the city of Detroit from denying the
franchise rights of the plaintiff in the streets of the city
because of expenditures of large sums of money with the
knowledge and acquiescence of the city authorities and
the people of the city since the franchises have expired.
Under the constitution of Michigan, § 25, Art..VIII (as

176

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

revised 1908), it is provided that no city or village shall
grant any public utility franchise, which is not subject
to revocation at the will of the city or village, unless such
proposition shall first have the affirmative vote of threefifths of the electors. This phase of the case is covered
in principle by our decision in Denver v. New York Trust
Co., 229 U. S.123, 139, in which a similar provision of the
Colorado constitution was under consideration, and
wherein this court in speaking of the provision of the
constitution of the State of Colorado, said:
"Besides, Article 20, § 4, of the state constitution then
in force provided that no franchise relating to the streets
of the city should be granted except upon a vote of the
electors, and Article 9 of the city charter then in force
made a like vote a prerequisite to the acquisition by the
city of any public utility. So, had the council attempted
by the ordinance of 1907 to make an election to purchase
or to ren(,w, the attempt would have gone for nothing."
The provision of the constitution of Michigan, in force
when the ordinance here, in controversy was passed,
necessarily prevents acquiring rights by estoppel which
might arise were the franchise within the power of the
city to grant. In Denver v. Denver Union Water Co., 246
U. S.178, the provision of the Colorado constitution was
not considered. Nor in Detroit United Railway v. Detroit,
248 U. S.429, was reference made to the like provision
of the Michigan constitution now relied upon. The charge is made at length in the bill that the city
officials, by means of the proceedings complained of, are
engaged in a .scheme designed to compel the company to
part with its property at a sum much less than its fair
value, or to cease to operate in the streets and to remove
its property therefrom. In this connection it is charged
that the real purpose is to compel the sale of the property
of the Street Railway Company at $40,000 per mile of
track, which is far less than its actual value. The giving

DETROIT UNITED RAILWAY v. DETROIT.
171.

177

Opinion of the Court.

effect to this scheme, it is averred, would work a deprivation of constitutional rights of the complainant in
violation of the Fourteenth Amendment. But, if the
city. has the right to acquire the property on the best
terms it can make with the company in view of the expiration of the franchises, an attempt to carry out such
purpose by an offer to buy the property at much less than
its value would not have the effect to deprive the company
of property without due process of law. It was so ruled
in Denver v. New York Trust Co., supra. In that case
this court, in speaking of, an alleged attempt of the city
to acquire the company's plant after the expiration of
its franchise for much less than its fair value, among other
things, said:
"Whether $7,000,000 is an adequate price for the company's plant, and whether its value will be ruinously
impaired by the construction of a municipal plant, are
beside the question. Being under no obligation to purclase, the city is free to name its own terms, and the water
company is likewise free to accept or reject them. The
latter is under no compulsion other than such as inheres
in the nature of its property or arises from a proper regard
of its own interests. That the city, mindful of its interests,
offered $7,000,000 for the water company's plant, when
it could have proceeded to the construction of a new plant
of its own, without making any offer to the company,
affords no ground for complaint by the latter."
Furthermore, it appears that under the charter of the
city of Detroit, notwithstanding the alleged attempt
to procure the property of the complainant at much less
than its value, no such purpose could be effected by purchase without approval of the electors of the city. Section
8 of the charter provides:
"Any contract to purchase or leaseherein contemplated,
or any plan to condemn existing street railway property
shall be void unless approved by three-fifths of the electors

178.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

voting thereon at any regular or special election, and upon
such 'proposition women tax payers having the qualifications-of male electors shall be entitled to vote."
No such contract has thus far been made, and there is
nothing in the ordinance attacked which undertakes to
acquire the property of the complainant without compliance with this charter provision.
The bill abounds in allegations that voters were misled
by the fraudulent conduct of the officials of the city in
their efforts to procure the property of the complainant
at less than :ts value by misrepresenting in a circular,
and otherwisE:, the purpose and effect of the vote to be
taken upon the question of acquiring a municipal system
of transportation. We think that the court below correctly held that the motives of the officials, and of
the electors acting upon the proposal, are not proper
subjects of judicial inquiry in an action like this so long
as the means adopted for submission of the question to
the people conformed to the requirements of the law.
The principle has been declared by this court. Angle v.
Chicago, St. Paul &c. Ry. Co., 151 U. S. 1, 18; Soon Hing
v. Crowley, 113 U. S. 703, 710. This feature of the bill is
an attempt to inquire in a collateral way into the validity
of an election which was held without steps being taken
to enjoin, and which was vigorously contested to a final
result.
The charter of the city of Detroit gave ample power
to the city to acquire, construct, own, maintain and
operate a street railway system on the streets of the city
within a distance of ten miles from any portion of its
corporate limits that the public convenience may require.
(§ 1, c. 13, Charter of Detroit, 1918.) Section 6 of the
charter makes it the duty of the Board of Street Railway
Commissioners to promptly proceed to purchase, acquire
or construct, and to own and operate a system of street
railways in and for the city, and as soon as practicable

DETROIT UNITED RAILWAY v. DETROIT.
171.

179

Opinion of the Court.

to make the system exclusive. Section 7 gives the Board
power to purchase or lease, or by appropriate proceedings
to acquire, any part of the existing street railway property
in the city, and to make the necessary purchases for that
purpose. Section 9 gives authority to issue bonds of the
city.
Under the authority of the charter the ordinance in
question was passed. It directs the Board of Street
Railway Commissioners to acquire, own, maintain and
operate a'street railway system. it requires that the
proposition to acquire, own, maintain the system and to
issue bonds shall be submitted to a vote at a special
election. It is contended, however, that the proposal
submitted did not conform to the requirements of theordinance.
We agree with the District Court that the form of
submission of the question was in substantial compliance
with the law.
As to allegations of fraudulent and improper conduct
of the Common Council in giving the electors information
in advance of the election which misled them, the contention is that a sample ballot sent out to the electors
did not definitely show the purpose to construct street
railway lines where trackage already existed, and that
the voters, of the city were misled into believing that
there was an intention not to construct the street railway
lines where the same already existed, but to purchase
at an estimated cost of $40,000 per mile. But we are of
opinion that this so-called official information, no complaint being made of it before the election, cannot vitiate
the election when the same was had upon a submission,
within the authority of the city under its charter, and
the ordinance passed in the form shown. Moreover, as
we have already pointed out, this ordinance does not provide for acquisition at $40,000 per mile; nor can any purchase be made except by contract approved by the e.ectors

180

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Syllabus.

255 U. S.

as provided by § 8 of the charter. Other considerations are urged based upon lack of authority in the city
which we have examined and deem it unnecessary to
discuss.
We find nothing in the allegations of this bill establishing that the city of Detroit, in proceeding by its officials
in the manner alleged, has done things which are subversive of the rights of the city to establish its own municipal system of street railways and to issue bonds for
that purpose, or which would amount to deprivation of
rights secured to the plaintiff by the Fourteenth Amendment to the Federal Constitution.
It follows that the decree of the District Court dismissing the bill must be

A ftned.

SMITH

v. KANSAS CITY TITLE
COMPANY ET AL.

& TRUST

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
No. 199. Argued January 6, 7, 8, 1920; restored to docket for reargumeat April 26, 1920; reargued October 14, 15, 1920.-Decided February 28, 1921.
I. A bill by a shareholder of a trust company to enjoin the directors
from investing its funds in bonds of Federal Land Banks and Joint
Stock Land Banks, upon the ground that the act of Congress au*horizing the creation of such banks and the issue of such bonds
is unconstitutional, and that the bonds therefore are not legal

securities in which the company's funds may be lawfully invested,

states a cause of action arising under the laws of the United States.
P. 199. Jul Code, § 24.
2. The provisions of the Federal Farm Loan Act of July 17, 1916, c.
245, 39 Stat. 360, amended January 18, 1918, c. 9, 40 Stat. 431,
making the Federal Land Banks and Joint Stock Land Banks

