AMOS v. UNITED STATES.

298.

Syllabus.

and decide the question as then presented, even where a
motion to return the papers may have bLeen denied before
trial. A rule of practice must not be allowed for any
technical reason to prevail over a constitutional right.
In the case we are considering the certificate shows
that a motion to return the papers, seized under the search
warrants, was made before-the trial, and was denied; and
that. on the trial of the case before another judge, this
ruling was treated as conclusive, although, as we have
seen, in the progress of the trial it must have become
apparent that the papers had been unconstitutionally
seized. The constitutional objection having been renewed,..
under the circumstances, the court should have inquired
as to the origin of the possession of the papers when they
were offered in evidence against the defendant.
Each question is answered, Yes.

AMOS v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
No. 114. Argued December 13, 1920.-Decided February 28, 1921.
1. When it is clear and undisputed that property used in evidence
against a defendant on a criminal trial was procured by the Government through an unconstitutional search and seizire in his home,
his petition for its return is not too late when made immediately after
the jury was sworn, and his motion to exclude the property, and testimony concerning it, from evidence should not be denied as inviting
a collateral issue. P. 316.
2. The act of a man's wife in allowing government officers to enter
his home without a warrant upon their demand for admission ftr
the purpose of making a search is held not to be a waiver of his con-

314

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

stitutional privilege against unreasonable search and seizure, even
assuming that a wife may waive her husband's right in that regard.
P. 317.
Reversed.

THE case isstated in the opinion.
Mr. H. H. Obear, with whom Mr. R. Dozier Lee and
Mr. Charles A. Douglas were on the brief, for plaintiff in
error.
Mr. W. C. Herron,with whom- The Solicitor General was
on the brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff in error, whom we shall designate "defendant as he was in the court below, was tried on an indictment containing six counts. He was found not guilty on
the-first four counts, but guilty on the fifth, which charged
him with'having removed whisky on which the revenue
tax had not been paid to a place other than a Government
warehouse, and also on the sixth, which charged him with
having concealed whisky on which the tax required by law
had not been paid.
After the jury was sworn, but before any evidence was
offered, the defendant presented to the court a petition,
duly sworn to by him, praying that there be returned to
him described private property of his, which it was averred
the District Attorney intended to use in evidence at' the
trial and which had been seized by P. J. Coleman and
C. A. Rector, officers of the Government, in a search of
defendant's house and store "within his curtilage," made
unlawfully and without warrant of any kind, in violation
of his rights under the Fourtb and Fifth Amendments to
the Constitution of the United States.
Upon reading of this petition and hearing of the applica-

AMOS v. UNITED STATES.
313.

Opinion of the Court.

tion it was denied, and, exception, being noted, the trial
proceeded.
Coleman and Rector were called as witresses by the
Government and testified: that as deputy collectors of
Internal Revenue, they went to defendlant's, home and,
not finding him there, but finding a woman who said she
was his wife, told her that they were revenue officers and
had come to search the premises "for violations of the
revenue law "; that thereupon the woman opened the store
and the witnesses entered, and in a barrel of peas found a
-bottle containing not quite a half-pint of illicitly distilled
whisky, which they called "blockade whisky"; and that
they then went into the home of defendant aid on searching found two bottles under the quilt on the bed, one of
which contained a full quart, and the other a little over a
quart of illicitly distilled whisky. The Government introduced in evidence a pint bottle containiing whisky, wlhich
the. witness Coleman stated "was not one of the bottles
found by him; but that the whisky contained in the same
was poured out of one of the two bottles that he had found in the defendant's house on the bed under the quilt, as
above stated." On cross-examination both witne-.ses testified that they did not have any warrant for the arrest
of the defendant, nor any search warrant to search his
house, and that the search was made during the daytime,
in the absence of the defendant, who did not appear on the
scene until after the search had been made.
After these two Government witnesses had described
how the search was made of defendant's home without
warrant either to arrest him or to search his premises, a
motion by counsel to strike out their testimony was denied
and exception noted.
This statement shows that the trial court denied the
petition of the defendant for a return of his property
seized in the search of his home by Government agents
without warrant of anv kind, in plain violation of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

Fourth and Fifth Amendments to the Constitution of the
United States, as they have been interpreted and applied
by this court in Boyd v. United. States, 116 U. S. 616, in
Weeks v. United States, 232 U. S. 383, and in Silverthorne
Lumber Co. v. United States, 251 U. S. 385; and also denied
his motion to exclude such property and the testimony relating thereto given by the Government agents after both
were introduced in evidence against him, when he was on
trial for a crime as to which they constituted relevant and
material evidence, if competent.
The answer of the Government to the claim that the
trial court erred in the two rulings we have described is,
that the petition for the return of defendant's property
was properly denied because it came too late when presented after the jury was empaneled and the trial, to
that extent, commenced, and that the denial of the
motion to exclude the property and the testimony of the
Government agents relating thereto, after the manner of
the search of defendant's home had been described, was
justified by the rule that in the progress of the trial of
crinnal cases courts will not stop to frame a collateral
issue to inquire whether evidence offered, otherwise competent, was lawfully or unlawfully obtained..
Plainly the questions thus presented for decision are
ruled by the conclusions this day announced in No. 250,
Gouled v. UnitedStates, ante, 298.
There is nothing in the record to indicate that the allegations of the petition for the return of the property, sworn
to by the defendant, were in any respect questioned or
denied, and the report of the examination and appropriate
cross-examination of the Government's witnesses, called
to make out its case, shows clearly the unconstitutional
character of the seizure by which the property which it
introduced was obtained. The facts essential to the dis-:
position of the motion were not and could not be denied;
they were litefially thrust upon the attention of the court

UNION PAC. It. R. CO. v. BURKE.
313.

317

Statement of the Case.

by the Government itself. The petition should have been
granted, but it having been denied the motion should, have
been sustained.
The contention that the constitutional rights of defendant, were waived when his wife admitted to his home the'
Government officers, who came, without warrant, demanding admission to make search of it under Government
authority, cannot be entertained. We need not consider
whether -it is possible for a wife, in the absence of her husband, -thus to waive his constitutional rights, for it is perfectly clear that under the implied coercion here presented,
no such waiver was intended or effected.
It results that the judgment of the District Court must
be reversed and the case remanded for further proceedings
in accordance with this opinion.
Reversed.

UNION PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY v. BURKE.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
NEW YORK.'
No. 183. Argued January 27, 1921.--Decided February 28, 1921.
An agreement between an interstate railroad company and a shipper
to limit the carrier's liability upon an interstate shipment -to a
valuation stated in the bill of lading, will not relieve the carrier of
its common-law obligation to pay the actual value in case of loss
by its negligence if its schedules, filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission, provide but one rate applicable to the shipment.
P. 321. Reid v:.American Express Co., 241 U. S. 544, distinguished.
178 App. Div. 783; 226 N. Y. 534, affirmed.

THIS case was submitted, in the first instance, to the
Supreme Court of New York, Appellate Division, .and

