OREGON-WASH. R. R. CO. v. UNITED STATES.

339

Argument for Appellant.

OREGON-WASHINGTON RAILROAD.& NAVIGATION COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 134.

Argued January 13, 1921.7-Decided March 7, 1921.

1. Personal property of army officers, transported for them, when
changing stations, on government bills of lading at government
expense, pursuant to army regulations, is not property of the United
States within the meaning of the railroad land-grant acts and is
not entitled to the special freight rates which those acts allow to
the Government. P. 344.
2. Where a railroad company for a long period, exceeding the period
of the statute of limitations, made a uniform practice of charging
on itsbooks and billing and collecting the reduced land-grant rates,
for transportation of property of army officers on which it was en-

titled to claim the higher commercial rates, acquiescing without
protest, in the practice and decisions of government officials, which
treated the property as public property to which the lower rates
were applicable, held that its conduct was inconsistent with any
intention to reserve its right to more than it collected, and-that it
could not recover more in the Court of Claims. P. 345.
54 Ct. Clms. 131, affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. William R. Harr. with whom Mr. Charles H. Bates
was on the briefs, for appellant:
The presentation of claimant's accounts for the transportation services involved at commercial rates less landgrant deductions, does not, under the circumstances of this
ease, estop it from suing for the balances lawfully due
therefor in the Court of Claims within the six-year periodl ot
limitatioa. Pickley v. United States, 46 Ct. Cims. 77, 91;
Pennsylvaniav. UnitedStates, 36 Ct. Clins. 507; GreatNorthern Ry. Co. v. United Siates, 42 Ct. Clms. 234, 228; Cape
Ann Granite Co. v. United States, 20 Ct. Clms. 1; Chicago
4 Northwestern Ry. Co. v. United Statcs, -104 U. S. 680, 686.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Appellant.

255 U. S.

The claimant was bound, by law and its contracts,
to carry the household goods and other personal property
of army officers and other -government officials, when
offered them by the shipping quartermasters of the
Army, and it had a right to rely on the provisions of law
and the terms of its contracts for the proper adjustment
of its compensation, and was not precluded from claiming
the full amount due for such transportation, under the
law and its contracts, simply because it accepted payment
of a less amount, without protest, from the disbursing
officers or the accounting officers of the Government,
especially when, as held by the Court of Claims, it would
have been useless, so far as payment was concerned, for
it to have presented its accounts for this transportation
without land-grant deductions.
The Railway Mail Service Cases, 13 Ct. Clms. 199;-103
U. S. 703, cited in the opinion of the Court of Claims
in the Baltimore & Ohio Railroad Case, 52 Ct. Cms. 468a similar case to the one at bar and the opinion in which
is relied upon by the court in this case-fails clearly
within the principle of estoppel.
In the case at bar there was no contention that the
:Government has been prejudiced by the attitude of the
railroads. On the contrary, the Government has profited
by the failure of the companies to sue earlier in the Court
of Claims for full tariff rates, to the extent of the items
that are barred by the statute of limitations and by the
use by the Government of the amounts now claimed.
Moreover, appellant expressly requested a finding by the
Court of Claims on the question of prejudice, but its.
request was overruled.
Part payment alone did not satisfy the debt. People
v. Hamilton County, 56 Hun, 459; Fire Insurance As8ociation v. Wickham, 141 U. S. 564, 577; Finney v. United
Sta es, 32 Ct. Clms. 546.
The settlements were simply matter (f accounting

OREGON-WASH.R. R. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 341
339.

Argument for Appeant.

and not of contract, and hence subject to subsequent
correction and restatement by the carrier subject only
to the limitations of time fixed by law.
An account stated or settled is only prima facie evidence of the extent of the liability of the debtor, and
may be impeached for fraud, omission or mistake in
law or fact. Perkins v. Hart,.11 Wheat. 237, 256; Burrill
v. Crossman, 91 Fed. Rep. 543-545; Chicago, Milwaukee
& St. Paul Ry. Co. v. Clark, 92 Fed. Rep. 968.
The rule as to mistake of law is usually invoked where

a party seeks relief from some instrument he has executed,
or from some payment that he has made, or from some
action that .he has taken, on the ground that he executed
such instrument or paid such money or took such action
while laboring under a mistake as to his legal rights in
the premises. Such are Bank v. Daniel, 12 Pet. 32,
and United States v. Edmondston, 181 U. S.500, relied
on by the Court of Claims. But such is not the case
here.
The situation here is that the Government is endeavoring to avoid responsibility for the balances due
claimant under this plea of mistake of law, having set
up, by way of defense to this suit, that the claimant
rendered its bills for less than the full amount due it by
mistake as to its full legal rights in the premises. This
claimant denies, and there is no finding by the court to
any such effect. On the contrary, the fair presumption
from what the Court of Claims said in its opinion, and
from the allegations of the petition, is that claimant was

not laboring under any mistake as to its legal rights,
but merely rendered its bills at land-grant rates because
it knew the disbursing and accounting officers of the
Government, following the Comptroller's views and
decisions would not pay full commercial rates therefor,
although in some instances, and probably at first, it or
some of its officers might not have known that the prop-

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

erty shipped was not government property; which would
be a mistake of fact.
But even if claimant had been laboring under a mistake
as to whether the Government was entitled to landgrant rates on this class of transportation, that fact
would not preclude it from recovering any balaices due,
since the debt owing it by the Government was not entirely extinguished by part payment only. Claimant
would be entitled to recover the balances due by suit in
the Court of Claims within the statutcry period, unless
the failure of the claimant to claim the full amount in
the first instance can be said to have -o prejudiced the
Government as to make it unjust an' inequitable for
the claimant to maintain a suit for the balances, whicJi
it is clear from this record is not the case here, no matter
in estoppel being pleaded or proved. Perkins v. Hart,
11 Wheat. 237, 256; Pickley v. United States, 46 Ct. Clms.
77; Ward v. Ward, 12 Ohio Civ. Dec. 59. Distinguishing:
Utermehle v. Norment, 197 U. S. 40, 56: Central Pacific
R. R. Co. v. United States, 28 Ct. Clms. 427, 164 U. S. 93.
There was no estoppel by reason of the provisions in
the Army Appropriation Acts.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Davis for the United
.States.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENiIA delivered the opinion of the
court.
This action brought by appellant is for the recovery
of certain balances amounting to the sum of $4,288.01,
being the difference between the amounts paid at certain
rates for transportation of the effects -of Army officers
changing stations and those which it is alleged were
legally chargeable.
The Court of Claims adjudged that 'appellant was not

OREGON-WASH. R. R. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
339.

343

Opinion of the Court.

entitled to recover and dismissed its petition. The cost
of printing the record in the case was awarded to the
United States.
There were findings of fact which show that the accounts
were presented for payment to the proper accounting
officers of the Government in the regular way and payments were made by the disbursing officers of the Government on vouchers certified to be correct and presented
by appellant. The charges so presented and paid were
at rates for such transportation over land-grant roads
fixed in certain agreements known as the "Land-grant
equalization agreements," by which, to quote from the
findings, "the carriers agreed, subject to certain exceptions, not material here to be noted-to accept for
the transportation of property moved by the Quartermaster Corps, United States Army, and for which the
United States is lawfully entitled to reduced ^rates over
land-grant roads, the lowest net rates lawfully available,
as derived through deductions account of land-grant
distance from a lawful rate filed with the Interstate
Commerce Commission from point of origin to destination at time of movement." That is, such freight was
accepted by the carriers without prepayment of the
charges therefor upon -the basis of the commercial or
tariff rates with appropriate deductions on account of
land-grant distance as provided in the Railrood L4ndgrant Acts. It is manifest, therefore, that the commercial rates were higher than the land-grant rates, and
this action is to recover the difference between them and
the land-grant rates presented for payment, as we have
said, by appellant, and paid by the transportation officers
of the Government.
After stating the action to be "for the recovery of
various amounts, aggregating $4,288.01, in addition to
those paid on account of 176 items of freight transportation iurnished to and paid for by the United States," the

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court..

255 U. S.

court by Mr. Justice Downey said, the action "is for a
sum as to each item of transportation in addition to
that already claimed and paid as claimed for the same
items and is not for any other or different or additional
service nor for omitted items." And further, "the case
therefore involves not only the question of the applicability of land-grant rates to this class of freight transportation, a question already decided adversely by this
court, but it involves further questions as to the right,
under the circumstances of the case, to now recover
amounts not then claimed."
The decision referred to is Chicago, Milwaukee & St.
Paul Ry. Co. v. United States, 50 Ct. Clms. 412, and the
ground'of its ruling was that the freight transported was
not the property of the United States,.it being the effects
of Army officers, and, therefore, was not entitled to landgrant deductions but was subject to the commercial
tariff. Necessarily, therefore, the pending case must turn
on other questions,. for the property transported was the
property of Army officers and subject, therefore, independently of other considerations, to the commercial
rates. Appellant in the present case was paid sums less
than those ratqs and there is left for consideration only
its present right to recover the difference between them
and the land-grant rates, the latter being those that
were paid.
The Government, however, is not inclined to that
limitation of the issue, and attacks the ruling of which
it isi the consequence, and repeats the contention decided
against it in that case, and again insists that the property
transported was government property and entitled to
land-grant rates and all else is irrelevant. To this appellant replies that the Government did not appeal from
the decision and must be considered as having accepted
it. The effect is rather large to attribute to mere nonaction, but we need not make further comment upon it

OREGON-WASH. R. R. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
339.

345

Opinion of the Court.

becausewe think the decision of the Court-of Claims was
correct. 'The personal baggage of an officer is not property of the United States and as such entitled to transportation at land-grant rates, and we are brought to the
grounds of recovery urged by appellant.
There are reasons for and against them. The assertion
is of a right of action and recovery against apparently a
concession during a long course of years to an explicit
and contrary assertion by the Government. Appellant
attempts to explain the concession or, let us say, its nonaction, as the compulsion of circumstances, and of a
belief of the futility of action, and' now urges that it
never intended to relinquish but always intended to
assert its~right. The record, however, has much against
this explanation, or that can not be accommodated to it,
if we may ascribe to appellant the usual impulses and
interest that influence men.
It "and its predecessor company, whose properties,
franchises, and accounts it acquired, charged upon its
books" the transportation charges at land-grant rates
and not at regular commercial rates, so rendered its bills
to the Government,, and received payment without
protest or the assertiob. of a greater compensation. And
there was prompting to protest and such assertion. In
1901, according to a finding, "the Upion Pacific stated a
claim against the United States at regular tariff rates for
transportation of household goods and professional books
of an officer of the Army over the railroad bridge at
Quincy, Illinois." The'claim was disallowed and thereafter the Union Pacific stated its accounts at land-grant
rates. It-is also found that in 1891 and. in 1904 there
.was conversation between the Comptroller of the-Treasury
and counsel in regard to the rulings of the Comptroller
though not, the Court of Claims says, to a claim then
pending before the officer. Appellant, however, was not
stirred to either opposition or protest by the incident

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the. Court.

255 U. S.

with the Union Pacific or the conveijation with the
Comptroller but continued to render its accounts at landgrant rates, and accepted payment without opposition
or action until the decision of the Court of Claims in
Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Ry. Co. v. United States,
8upia.
Counsel seem to make a merit of this uncomplaining
and unresisting acquiescence and observe that the Government by it obtained the advantage of the plea of the
statute of limitations. The fact is significant. It is
inconsistent with the reservation of a right and an intention to subsequently make a judicial assertion of it.
Creditors are not usually so indulgent and the appellant
had remedies at hand. The courts were open to it, certainly protest was open to it. Its explanation for this
non-action is not satisfactory. "It is advised and believes," is its allegation, and now its contention, that
"its auditors and agents were led and constrained to
render its bills and vouehers . .
at tariff rates
with land-grant deductions, because said shipments were
for the Quartermaster's Department of the Army and
upon Government bills of lading which in terms are only
applicable to 'Government property' and 'public property,' and also (because) the Comptroller of the Treasury
(whose decisions are by law made final and controlling
upon the Executive Departments of the Government) had
hdd that- such transportation, upon Government bills of
lading, when within the amount authorized to be transported
by Depa,tmentat regulations at the expense of the Govern.nent, -was quasi-public property and entitled as such to
land-giont rates," and that it did not intend to waive its
right to payment in full or to sue, "if so advised" for the
balances due "so far as the same were not barred by the
statute of limitations."
T'he italics are counsel's and we repeat them as they
give emphasis to counsel's conviction of the justification

OREGON-WASH. R. R. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 347
339.

@piion of the Court.

of the excuse. We do not share it. The mere mechanism
of the -bills of lading or their false designations" of the
propekty transported could not have imposed on anybody, certainly not on "the auditors and agents" of a
railroad company; and the decisions of the Comptroller
were as much open to dispute then as now and resort to
suit an inevitable prompting, and yet, we have seen, the
statute of limitatians was permitted to inte pose its bar.
The excuse of appellant is hard to credit. Its "audifors
and agents" were not ignorant of affairs, nor unpractised
in the controversies of business, and the means of their
settlement. The auditors and agents of railroad companies are not usually complaisant to denials of the
rights of the companies they represent. We do not say
this in criticism, for such is their duty, the necessary
condition of their places.
We are forced, theretore,. to conclude that appellant's
non-action was deliberate, based upon a consideration
of its advantages, with no thought of ultimate assertion
against the decision of the Government until stirred to
acquisitiveness by the decision in the Chicago, Milwaukee
& St. Paul Case, a decision which we may say, in passing,
was declared by the Court of Claims to have been improvidently given. Baltimore & Ohio R. *R. Co. v. United
States, 52 Ct. Clms. 468.
The case therefore falls within the rulings of United
States v. Bostwick, 94 U. S. 53; Baird v. United States,
96 U. S. 430,'Railroad Company v. United States, 103 U.
S. 703; Central Pacific R. R. Co. V. United States, 164
U. S. 93. And they have supplemental force in United
States v. Edmondston, -181 U. S. 500; Utermehle v. Norment, 197 U. S. 40.
These views lead to an affirmance of the judgment
upon the record as it now stands. It should be said,
however, that they are based on the concessions of appellant to the action of the accounting officers, and the

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

Court of Claims makes this a point in its decision. The
court said that from the "long continued uniform course
of action by" appellant "for a long period of years,"
"it had no intention of claiming anything more as tothese transactions than that claimed in the certified
vouchers and paid." And added, "All the facts justify
this conclusion, for a course of conduct is more potent
than assertions of belief unacted on. But if such a conclusion were otherwise subject to question it appears
from the evidence that plaintiff's (appellant's) charge
upon its books was only of the amount claimed in its
vouchers and that when that amount was paid 'the
transaction was behind us.' The quoted language is the
language of plaintiff's auditor."
In explanation of this, it may be said, and in contradiction of its implication, appellant requested findings
by the court that the transaction of the appellant and its
predecessor company "was regarded by the auditing
department of the company as closed, so far as they were
concerned, but as subject to subsequent adjustment or
suit in court, if subsequently found to be incorrect."
And further, that the Government considered the accounts between "the carriers as in the nature of running
accounts, subject to correction as the occasion arises, in
the light of the law and the facts." And it is contended
that the evidence supports such conclusion. This is
disputed by the Government, and it is doubtful. The
Government concedes that a motion to remand the case
for additional findings has foundation in the record, but
contends "that the requests are without merit and that
the case is fully covered by: the facts as found." And
"adds, "of course, in so faf as the mttion tends to request
the Court of Claims to change findings made it is futile,
as the findings are conclusive."
The Government further urges that the proposed
,amendment to Finding VI is covered by. Findings 'VI

WESTERN PAC. R. R. CO. v. UNITED STATES.. 349
339.

Syllabus.

and IX, and is only a request "to change a negative to a
positive finding"; that the amendment to Finding X is
"rather an argument that certain conclusions should
follow from facts found" and that the court's "conclusion, from the facts found, is that both partie5 regarded
the settlements as final, not as tentative." The amendment to Finding XI, is, the Government says, "a request
to find evidence," which is contrary- to the rules, and
besides the evidence is immaterial.
We concur with the Government that the request for
findings is an effort to change negative to positive findings. The reasoning of the court expresses implicitly,
if not explicitly, a view, contrary to that expressed in the'
request. In other words, the court regarded the settlements of appellant with the Government as final, and
not as tentative.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY and MR. JUSTICE CLARKE concur
in the result.

WESTERN PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY v.
UNITED STATES..
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 136.. Argued January 13, 1921.-Decided March 7, 1921.
1. A railroad company, acquiescing in the practice and rulings of
government officials,charged and collected the reduced "land grant"
rates for transportation of army officers' effects, upon which it was
entitled to collect higher, commercial rates. Held, that it had waived
its right to collect more and could not recover more in the Court of
Claims. P. 355. See Oregon-Washington R.R.& Navigatior Co, v,

Unikd #States,ane., 339,

