LANG v. NEW YORK CENT. R. R. CO.
452.

Syllabus.

satisfied at any price that it may fix strikes us as needing
no answer. The plaintiffs are under no legal obligation to
take gas nor is the Government bound to allow it to be
furnished. If they choose to take it the plaintiffs must
submit to such enhancement of price, if any, as is assignable to the Government's demands. We do not consider
whether the Commission has power to raise the price to the
excepted class because, even if it has, the plaintiffs have no
right to require equality with the Government and they
have no other ground upon which to found their supposed
right.
Decree affirmed.

LANG, ADMINISTRATRIX OF LANG, v. NEW
YORK CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY.,
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
NEW YORK.
Nc. 290.

Argued March 1,'1921.-Decided March 28, 192i.

1. Failure of a railroad to equip a car with automatic couplers as
required by the Safety Appliance Act will not render it liable to
an employee for an injury of which the delinquency was not the
proximate cause. P. 458.
2. Where a brakeman, whose duty and purpose were to stop a string
of switched cars before they reached a car standing on a siding awaiting unloading, was injured in a collision with it, having failed to
stop the moving cars in time, held, that the fact that the standing
car lacked a draw bar and coupler on the end where the impact
was did not render the railroad liable for the injury, even if their
presence would have prevented it, since the purpose of the requiremen' of automatic couplers is to avoid risks in coupling and not to
provide a place of safety between colliding cars. P. 459.
227 N. Y. 507, affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

Mr. Hamilton Ward, with whom Mr. Julius A. Schrieber
and Mr. Irving W. Cole were on the brief, for petitioner.
,!,Mr. Maurice C. Spratt for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE McKENNA

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Action for damages laid in the sum of $50,000 for
injuries sustained by petitioner's intestate, Oscar G. Lang,
while assisting in switching cars at Silver Creek, N. Y.
The injuries resulted in death. The Safety Appliance Act
is invoked as the law of recovery.
There was a verdict for $18,000 upon which judgment
was entered.*. It and the order denying a new trial were
affirmed by the Appellate Division, March 5, 1919, by a
divided
court.
The Court
of Appeals reversed the judgments
and
directed the complaint to be dismissed, to review which
action thL certiorari is directed.
In general description the court said: "In the case before
us the defendant [respondent] was engaged in interstate
commerce. A car without drawbar or coupler was standing on the siding. The plaintiff's intestate was a br'akeman and was riding on a second car kicked-upon the same
siding. A collision occurred and the deceased was crushed
between the car upon which he was riding and the defective car."
There is no dispute about the facts; there is dispute
about the conclusions from them. We may quote, therefore, the stateme'it of the trial court, passing upon the
motion for new trial, as sufficient in its representation of
the case. It is as follows: "The defendant had a loaded
car loaded with iron which had been placed on a siding at
the station at Silver Creek, New York. On the same track
was also standing another car destined for Farnham the

LANG v. NEW YORK CENT. R. R. CO.,
455.

• 457

Opinion of thd Court.

next station east. At Silver Creek this wayfreight had'
orders to leave a couple of cars and to take on the car going
to Farnham. The car loaded with iron above referred to
was defective. . The draw bar, the draft timber and the
coupling apparatus on the westerly end of this car were
gone. This car had been on the siding at Silver Creek
several days loaded with iron consigned to a firm at Silver
Creek, waiting to be unloaded. Its condition was known
to the crew of the wayfreight generally and to the plaintiff's intestate prior to the accident. In fact its crippled
condition was the subject of conversations between him
and the train conductor only shortly before the accident
happened. In getting cut the car for Farnham the engine
went onto the siding from the westerly end, pulled out a
stfing of six cars including the Farnham car, then shunted
the Farnham car onto an adjoining track, placed two of the
other cars they had hauled out onto a third track, and then
kicked the other three cars back onto the track where the
crippled car stood. Plaintiff's intestate was on one of these
three cars for the purpose. of setting the brakes and of
so placing them on thissiding as not to come into contact
with the crippled car. He evidently was at the brake on.
the easterly end of the easterly one of the three cars moving toward the crippled car. His foot was resting on the
small platform at the end of the car just below the brake
wheel. For some reason he did not stop the three cars
moving on this track before the cars came into contact
with the crippled car. The cars collided, and owing to the
absence of the coupler attachment and bunpers on the
crippled car intestate's leg was caught between the ends of
the two cars and he was so injured that he died from the
injuries so received. It evidently was not the intention.
of any of the crew to disturb, couple onto, or move the
crippled car."
The statement that "owing to the absence of the coupler attachment and bumpers on the crippled car intestate's

458

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

two cars" is
leg was caught between the ends of the
disputed as a consequence or an~element of decision independently of~what Langwas to do and did-indeed it
is the dispute in the case. Based on it, however, and the
facts recited, the contention of petitioner is that they
demonstrate a violation of the Safety Appliance Act and
justify the judgrhent of the trial court and its affirmance
by the Appellate Di-Vision. For this Louisville & Nashville
R. R. Co. v. Layton, 243 U. S. 617, is cited.'
The opposing contention of respondent is that "The
proximate cause of the accident was the failure of the
deceased to stop the cars before they came into collision
with .the defective 'car. The absence of the coupler and
draw bar was not the proximate cause .of the injury, not'
was it a concurring cause." To support the contention
St. Louis & San FranciscoR. R. Co. v. Conarty, 238 U. S.
243, is adduced.
The Court of Appeals considered the Conarty Case controlling. This petitioper contests, and opposes to it the'
Layton Case, supra, and contends that the couft failed to
give significance and effect to the fact that the car in the
Conarty Case was out of use and that while out 'of use the
car upon which Conarty was riding collided with it;*
whereas in the case at bar, it is insisted that the defective
.'car was in use by defendant ahd was required to be -used
by the intestate. The trial court made this distinction
and expressed the view that the defective car in the case at
bar "must be deemed to have been in use within the
meaning of the statute." The distinction as we shall
presently see is not justified. It is insisted upon, however,
and to What is considered its determination is added a
citation from the. Layton Case decla:ing that the Safety,
Appliance Act makes "it unlawful for any carrier engaged
in interstate commerce to use on its Tailroad any car not"
equipped as there provided. And further, '.'By this legislation the qualified duty of the common law is'expanded

LANG v. NEW YORK CENT. R. R. CO.
455.

Opinion of the Court.

into an absolute duty with respect to car couplers" and by
an omission of the duty the carrier incurs "a liability to
make compensation to any employee who" is"injured
because of it." But necessarily there must be a causal
relation between the fact of delinquency and the fact of
injury and so the case declares. Its concluding words-are,
expressing the condition of liability, "that carriers are
liable to employees in damages whenever the failure to
obey these safety appliance laws is the proximate cause of
injury to them when engaged in the discharge of duty."
The plaintiff recovered because the case came, it was said,
within that interpretation of the statute.
We need not comment further upon the case nor consider the cases which it cites. There is no doubt of the
duty of a carrier under the statute and its imperative requirement or of the consequences of its omission. But the
inquiry necessarily occurs, to what situation and when,
and to what employees, do they apply?
The Court of Appeals was of the view that it was the
declaration of the Conarty Case that § 2 ' of the Safety
Appliance Act "was intended to provide against the risk
of coupling and uncoupling and to obviate the necessity of
men going between the ends of the cars. It was not intended to provide a place of safety between colliding cexs,"
and that "the absence of a coupler and drawbar was not a
breach of duty toward a servant in that situation." It
further decided that Lang was in "that situation" and he
"was not one of the persons for whose benefit the Safety
Appliance Act was passed."

I § 2 of the Safety Appliance Act is as follows: "On and aft.r the
first day of January, eighteen hundred and ninety-eight, it shil be
unlawful for any such common carrier [one engaged in intestate
commerce] to haul or permit to be hauled or used on its line ai y car
used in moving interstate traffic not equipped with couplers coupling
automatically by impact, and which can be uncoupled without the
necessity of men going between the ends of the cars." 27 Stat. 531.

.460

OCTOBER- TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

Two. questions are hence presented for solution.
(1) Was the Court of Appeals' estimate of the Conarty
Case correct?- (2)- Was it properly applied to Lang's
situation?
(1) The court's conclusion that the requirement of the
Safety AppliHnce Act" was intended to provide against the
risk of coupling" cars, is the explicit declaration of the
Conarty Case., There, after considering the act: and
the cases in exposition of it, we said, nothing in its provisions "gives any warrant for saying that they are intended
to provide a place of safety between colliding cars. On the
contrary, they affirmatively show that a principal purpose
in their enactment was to obviate 'the necessity for men
going between the ends of the cars. 27 Stat. 531.'
The case was concerned with a collision between a switch
engine and a defective freight car resulting in injuries from
which death ensued. The freight car was about to be
placed on (we quote from the opinion) "an isolated track
for repair and was left near the switch leading to that
track while other cars were being moved out of the way-a
task taking about five minutes. 'At that time a switch
engine with which the deceased was working came along
the track on which the car was standing and the collision
ensued." The deceased was on the switch engine and
was on his way "to do some switching at a point some distance beyond the car" and was "not intending and did not
attempt, to qouple it to the engine or to handle it in any
way. Its movement was in the hands of others."
(2) That case, therefore, declares the same principle of
decision as the Court of Appeals declared in this, and,
while there is some difference in the facts, the difference
does not exclude the principle. In neither case was the
movement of the colliding car directed to a movement of
the defective car. In that case the movement of the
colliding car was at night, and it may be inferred that there
was no knowledge of the situation of the defective car. In

LANG v. NEW YORK CENT. R. R. CO.
455.

CrARKz and DAY,, JJ., dissenting.

this case the movement of the colliding car was in the day
time and the situation of the defective car was not only
known and visible, but its defect was known by Lang. Be,
therefore, knew that his attention and efforts were to be
directed to prevent contact with it. He had no other concern with it than to avoid it. "It evidently was not," the
trial court said, "the intention of any of the crew [of the
colliding car] to disturb, couple onto, or move the crippled
car." It was the duty of the crew, we repeat, and immediately the duty of Lang, to stop the colliding car and to
set the brakes upon it"so as not to come into contact with
the crippled car," to quote again from the trial court.
That duty he failed to perform, and, if it may-be said that,
notwithstanding, he would not have, been injured if the car
collided with had been equipped with draw bar and
coupler, we answer, as the Court of Appeals answered,
still "the collision was not the proximate result of" the
defect. Or, in other words, and as expressed in effect in
the Conarty Case, that the collision under the evidence
cannot be attributed to a violation of the provisions of the
law "but only that had they been complied with it [the
collision] would not have resulted in the injury to the
deceased."

Judgmen a ffirmd.
Cmm, with whom concrTed MR.

MR. JusTic
JUSTICs DAY, dissenting.

Because I think that the court's decision of thu case will
result in seriously confusing the law applicable to the
Safety Appliance Acts. of Congress, I shall state, as briefly
as I may, my reasons for dissenting from it.
When Lang, a brakeman in the employ of the New York
Central Railroad Company, received his fatal injuries the
,,Safety Appliance Acts of Congress declared it to be "unlawful" for an interstate carrier byrail to "use on its line"
any car not equipped with automatic couplers, and also

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
CLARKE and DAY, JJ., dissenting.

255 U.S.

provided that any employee injured by any car not so
equipped should not be held to have assumed the risk of
injury thereby occasioned by continuing to work -fter the
unlawful use of such a car had been brought to his knowledge (27 Stat. 531, §§ 2 and 8; 32 Stat. 943, § 1).
At that time also the Federal Employers' Liability Act
provided that in any action brought under the act no
employee should be held to have been guilty of contributory negligence or to have assumed the risks of his employment in any casewhere the violation by the carrier of any
statute enacted for the safety of its employees contributed
to the injury or death of such employee. (35 Stat. 65,
§§ 3 and 4.)
It is obvious that these statutes take out of this case all
question as to assumption of risk by, and contributory
negligence of, the deceased brakeman.
Since the decision in St' Louis, Iron Mountain & Southern Ry. Co. v. Taylor, 210 U. S. 281, 295, 'this court 'has
consistently held that in enacting the Safety Appliance
Acts: "The obvious purpose of the legislaturewas to supplant
the qualified duty of the common law with an absolute duty
deemed by it more just. If the railroad does, in point of fact,
use cars which do not comply with the standard, it violates
the plain prohibitions of the law, and there arises from that
Violation the liability to make compensation to one who is
injured by it.",
Chicago, Bulington & Quincy Ry. Co. v. United States,
220 U. S. 559. Here the court declares that the Safety
Appliance Act imposes "An absolute duty on the carrier
and the penalty cannot be escaped by exercise of reasonable care."
Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Rigsby, 241 U. S. 33. Here
the court said: "Disregard of the Safety Appliance Act is a
_wrongful act; and, where it results in damage to one of the
class for whose especial benefit it was enacted, the right to
recover the damages from the party in default is implied."

LANG v. NEW YORK CENT. R. R. CO.
455.

CLRKE and DAY, JJ., dissenting.

Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Layton, 243 U. S.
617, 621. Here the foregoing cases are cited, and the court
declares:" While it is undoubtedly true that the immediate
occasion for passing the laws requiring automatic couplers
was the great number of deaths and injuries caused to
employees who were obliged to go between cars to couple
and uncouple them, yet these laws as written are by no
means confined in their terms to the protection of employees only when so engaged. The language of the acts
and the authorities we have cited make it entirely clear
that the liability in damages to employees for failure to
comply with the law springsfrom its being made unlawful to
use cars not equipped as required,-not from the position
the employee may be in or the work which he may be doing
at the moment when he is injured. This effect can be given
to the acts -and their wise and humane purpose can be
accomplished 'only by holding, as we do, that carriers are
liable to employees in damages whenever the failure to obey
these safety appliance laws is the proximate cause of injury
to them when engaged in the dischargeof duty."
Minneapolis & St. Louis R. R. Co. v. Gotschall, 244
U. S. 66. Here a brakeman, going over the tops of cars
when a train was in motion, was thrown under the wheels
by a sudden jerk caused by the setting of brakes when
defective couplers parted, and the company was held
liable "in view of the positive duty imposed by the statute . . . to furnish safe appliances for the coupling
of cars.','
Regarding the case at bar as ruled by the decisions we
have cited; especially by Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v.
Layton, supra, the trial court held the railroad company
liable and sent the case to the jury for the assessment of
damages only. The Appellate Division affirmed the
judgment but the Court of Appeals reversed it solely upon
the authority of St. Louis & San Francisco R. R. Co. v.
Conarty, 238 U. S. 243.

464'

4

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.

CLARKE and DAY, JJ., dissenting.

255 U. S.

It is plain that the principle of the cases quoted from is
that carriers should be held liable to employees in damages
whenever failure to.obey the Safety Appliance Laws is the
proximate cause of the injury to them when engaged in the
discharge of their duty.
With these statutes and decisions in mind, we come to
the consideration of the facts in this case.
Lang, a brakeman, was a member of the crew of a local
freight train, running from Erie, Pennsylvania, easterly to
Buffalo, New York. When the train reached Silver Creek,
an intermediate station, the conductor was directed to
pick up a car then on the "house track," and to take it in
his train to Farnham, New York. We shall refer to this
car as the "Farnham car."
For more than two weeks prior to the accident to Lang,
there had been in the Silver Creek yard a box car loaded
with steel, from one end of which, for three or four days
before the accident certainly, (how much longer does not
appear), the entire coupler and draw bar had been missing.
This car had been held for unloading, which had been
commenced before but was completed on the day of the
accident. It had been necessary during this time-to switch
the car about the yard, and the crew of which Lang was a
member had shifted it-at least once on the day before the
accident.
When the conductor went to look for the Farnham car
he found it standing on the "house track" with five other
cars to the west of it and four cars to the east of it, the car
next it on the east being the defective car, with the draw
head missing from its west end (the end next the Farnham
car). Thus this, "house track," with capacity for twelve
cars, had ten standing upon it, of which the defective car
was one-necessarily they must have been very close
.together.
The conductor saw that it was impossible to switch out
the Farnham car from the east end of the "house track"

LANG v. NEW YORK CENT. R. R. CO.
455.

CLARKE and DAY,JJ., dissenting.

without moving the defective car, and thereupon he
ordered his engine to go through the switch at the west end
of the "house track," to couple to the six cars standing to
me west of the defective car, and then to back out answitch the Farnham car (which would be the most easterly
one of the string) onto another track where it could be
picked up later. This being done, the two cars farthest
from the engine were shunted onto a third track, thus
leaving but three cars attached to the engine. The plan
then was to "kick" these three cars back onto the "house
track" and to stop them when near to the defective car
but before they came in contact with it. It was while
attempting to accomplish this purpose that the accident
occurred.
The movement'which resulted n the accident is described by the conductor, who was standing at the switch
at the west end of the "house track," as follows:
The engine kicked the three remaining cars onto the
"house track" and after they were started Lang, who was
standing near the conductor, got on the head car, "the one
nearest to the cripple," for the purpose of stopping them.
When he got upon this box car, it was about four car
lengths from the defective end of the defective car, and the
track was slightly down grade toward it. His purpose was
to get to the brake at the head end of the head car so as to
stop the three before they touched the defective car, but,
either because the cars had been started too rapidly by the
engine, or because the brake did not work well, or because
the track was down grade, or because the time or distance
was too short, he did not get the cars stopped in time to
prevent them from colliding with the defective car. At the
moment of the impact, Lang, who was in the act of setting
the brakes, had one foot on the brake step attached to the
end of the head car, and, because the draw head was missing from the defective car, the ends of the two cars came
together, so crushing his leg between them that he died

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Czanxic and DAY, JJ., dissenting.

255 U. B.

within a few days thereafter. Thus did Lang, who was as
much without fault in fact as the statutes cited rendered
him without fault in law, come to his death.
It is the uncontradicted evidence that if the bad order
car had been equipped with such a coupler as the law
required the ends of the two cars could not have come
nearer together than thirty inches and the accident, of
course, could not have occurred.
It seems to be the theory of the opinion of the court that,
because the conductor realized the danger there was in the
defective car and aimed to avoid moving it, therefore it
was not "in use" by the company within the meaningoft
the Safety Appliance Acts.
But a car in such dangerously defective condition as
this one was, which for convenience in unloading was kept
for days, perhaps, for weeks, in a yard so -crowded that it
was necessary to move it from time to time in the ordinary
yard switching, cannot/reasonablybe-said--to have been
"out of use" duringthat time. To allow such a car to be
placed upon an unloading track, so short and crowded that
a slight excess of speed in moving other cars, or a slight
defect in the brakes or a moment of delay in applying
them, might result, as it did in this case, in the injury or
death of employees, cannot reasonably be said to be
keeping such a car "out of use." As a matter of fact, the
defective car was actually in use in a most real and familiar way on the very day of the accident, for, on that
day, the unloading of it, which had been commenced before, was'completed while it was on the "house track" on
which the accident occurred.
The Layton Case, upra, coming after the Conarty Case,
decided (all the members of this court as now constituted
concurring), that: "Carriers are liable to employees in damages whenever the failure to obey these safety appliance laws
is the proximate cause of injury to them when engaged in the
discharge of duty;" and the 0-otschal Casep 244 U. S. 66,

LANG v. NEW YORK CENT. R. R. CO.
455.

CIRKi and DAY, JJ., dissenting.

clearly proceeded upon the same principle. Neither of the
men injured in the Layton or Gotachall Cases was engaged
in coupling or uncoupling cars when the accident occurred,
but each was injured because of defective coupling appliances when he was going over the cars of his train in the
discharge of his duty. Here Lang was injured, when in
the discharge of his duty, because a defective car had been
placed upon a much used track in a busy yard in such a
position that it was impossible for him, in the exercise of
due care, to prevent the cars he was seeking to control
from coming in contact with it.
It would be difficult to conceive of a case in which the
negligence of the master could be a more immediate and
proximate cause of injury toa servant than it was in this
case.

Having regard to the extent to which this case must be
accepted by other courts as a rule of decision, it would
seem that the orderly' and intelligible administration of
justice required that the principle of the Layton and
Gotschall Cases should be disavowed or overruled, for that
principle is so plainly in conflict with the opinion in this
case that courts and advising counsel will otherwise be left
without any rule to guide them in the disposition of the
many similar cases constantly pressing for disposition.
For the reasons thus stated I think the judgment of the
Court of Appeals entered by the Supreme Court of New
York should be reversed and the original judgment of the
Supreme Court affirmed.

