180

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Syllabus.

255 U. S.

as provided by § 8 of the charter. Other considerations are urged based upon lack of authority in the city
which we have examined and deem it unnecessary to
discuss.
We find nothing in the allegations of this bill establishing that the city of Detroit, in proceeding by its officials
in the manner alleged, has done things which are subversive of the rights of the city to establish its own municipal system of street railways and to issue bonds for
that purpose, or which would amount to deprivation of
rights secured to the plaintiff by the Fourteenth Amendment to the Federal Constitution.
It follows that the decree of the District Court dismissing the bill must be

A ftned.

SMITH

v. KANSAS CITY TITLE
COMPANY ET AL.

& TRUST

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
No. 199. Argued January 6, 7, 8, 1920; restored to docket for reargumeat April 26, 1920; reargued October 14, 15, 1920.-Decided February 28, 1921.
I. A bill by a shareholder of a trust company to enjoin the directors
from investing its funds in bonds of Federal Land Banks and Joint
Stock Land Banks, upon the ground that the act of Congress au*horizing the creation of such banks and the issue of such bonds
is unconstitutional, and that the bonds therefore are not legal

securities in which the company's funds may be lawfully invested,

states a cause of action arising under the laws of the United States.
P. 199. Jul Code, § 24.
2. The provisions of the Federal Farm Loan Act of July 17, 1916, c.
245, 39 Stat. 360, amended January 18, 1918, c. 9, 40 Stat. 431,
making the Federal Land Banks and Joint Stock Land Banks

SMITH v. KANSAS CITY TITLE CO.
180.

Argument of Mr. Bullitt for Appellant.

established thereunder depositaries of public money, when designated by the Secretary of the Treasury, authorizing their employment as financial agents of the Government, requiring them
to perform, as such depositaries and agents, such reasonable duties
as may be laid upon them, and authorizing them to purchase goveminent bonds,-justify their creation as an exercise of the constitutional power of Congress. P. 208.
3. The necessity for such federal agencies is for Congress to determine,
and the motives actuating Congress in exercising its power to create
them are not a subject for judicial scrutiny. Pp. 209, 210.
4. The extent to which these institutions have so far been employed
as government depositaries or 'fiscal agencies is irrelevant to the
power to create them. P. 210.
5. Nor does their legitimacy depend on their being, technically, banks;
or on the extent of their banking powers. Id.
6. The fact that these banks were intended to facilitate the making
of loans upon farm security at low rates of interest does not invalidate the enactment. P. 211.
7. These banks being federal agencies, Congress had power to exempt
their bonds from state, as well as federal, taxation. P. 212.

Affirmed.

THis was a direct appeal to review a decree of the District Court dismissing a bill brought by a shareholder to
enjoin a trust company from investing its money in bonds
of Federal and Joint Stock, Land Banks. The case is
stated in the opinion, infra, p. 195.
Mr. William Marshall Bulliti for appellant:
The implied power of appropriation does not authorize
the creation of Federal Land Banks to lend private capital
on farm mortgages, nor the exemption of their cbligations
in private hands from state taxation.
The power to borrow money on the credit of the United
States does not authorize the issuance and sale of Farm
Loan Bonds to private investors, nor the exemption
thereof from state taxation.
Congress could not acquire power by the mere expedien
of calling such corporationa "Banks ".and endowing them

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument of Mr. Bullitt for Appellant.

255 U. S.

with the possibility of acting as depositaries of public
money or financial agents.
It must %beremembered that we are considering
a
question of constitutional power. If, as the Government
now contends, Congress has the power to create a poss ble
depositary and fiscal agent and can declare its private
business, and all obligations executed to or issued by it,
exempt from taxation, certainly the principle supporting
such action also authorizes Congress to designate indi-.
viduals, firms and corporations as depositaries and fiscal
agents, and thereby exempt their private business from
state taxation. There is no pretense that the private
business of the Farm Loan Banks is (as in McCulloh v.
Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, and Osborn v. Bank, 9 Wheat.
738), essential to the performance of governmental duties.
It must always be borne in mind that neither the
Federal Land Banks nor the Joint Stock Banks can lend
any assistance towards furnishing or regulating a sound
currency; nor assist the Government in times of stress
by furnishing liquid capital (from depositors' funds) to
meet sudden governmental needs, nor indeed perform
any of the functions which render the national banks so
essential to governmental operations.
On the contrary, by 'the very nature of their long term
loans, in times of financial stress or governmental need
the Farm Loan Banks have to be helped by the Government. To-day, the Government has had to advance
$175,000,000 to enable the-Banks to operate; and at a
time when the Government was having to pay 6 per cent.
for its own borrowings!
Both the First and the Second Banks of the United
States and the present national banks were created
immediately; after, or during, a great war, for the express
purpose of affording the means for the execution of important express powers vested in Congress.
The First and Second Banks of the United States were

SMITH v. KANSAS CITY TITLE CO.
180.

Argument of Mr. Bullitt for Appellant.

in fact the means actually used by the Government to
carry on its fiscal operations; to obtain loans in- anticipation of revenues; to facilitate the payment of federal
taxes; to furnish a uniform and orderly currency on a
sound specie basis; to collect, safeguard and transport
money, and to transfer public funds from place to place
(without cost to the Government or loss to it on account
of the difference in exchange) as the exigencies of the
Nation required. None of those functions can be performed by the Farm Loan Banks.
The Farm Loan Banks do not assist the Government
to borrow money. To say they do, or can, is simply to
.ignore the plainest facts. Every dollar of their deposits
(in the unlikely event of their stockholders making any
deposits) must be invested in Farm Loan Bonds or farm
mortgages. (§ 11.) They are not even permitted to
invest their deposits in United States bonds.
Theoretically, the Farm Loan Banks have the power
to invest the moneys received from the-interest and
amortization payments by the farmers, in United States
bonds; but practically they would never do so, for such act
would be at a loss and would operate to stop the system
from functioning.
The basis of the McCulloch and Osborn Cases was not
that the banks were mere passive depositaries or undefined financial agents, but was this: By virtue of engaging in general banking, they were enabled to perform
a great many active and indispensable service§ essential
to be performed in order to carry on government business.
In McCulloch v. Maryland, after holding that Congress could charter that particular bank because it was
an appropriate means, plainly adapted to a legitimate
end within the scope of the express powers grahted by
the Constitution, the Chief Justice, emphasized the fact
that in order to justify -the incorporation of a bank it must
be an appropriate measure to carry out express powers.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.

Argument of Mr. Bullitt for Appellant.

255 U. S.

Again, in Osbornv. Bank, the great Chief Justiee, while
sustaining the validity of the bank's creation, notwithstanding the fact that it engaged in private business while
carrying out its governmental functions, emphasized the
fact that the bank was created primarily for national
purposes and that it was necessary to allow it to do private
business in order to effectively carry out the national
purposes for which it was particularly created.
The Farm LQan Act expressly prohibits the Joint Stock
Banks from receiving deposits or transacting any banking
or other business- except that of lending on farm mortgages;, and prohibits the Federal Land Banks from receiving any deposits, except from its stockholders who
are also borrowers.
For what express national purposes were these Farm
Loan Banks created? In what way is such national
purpose dependent for its proper execution upon the
lending of A's money to B at, low rates, and exempting
the transactions from state taxation? What fiscal operations of the Government are aided by the private business of farm mortgages? In what way is that branch
of the business necessary to enable the ,Farm Loan Banks
to perform any national purpose? In First National
Bank v. Union Trust Co., 244 U. S. 416, it was held that,
in order to enable the bank uccessfully to perform its
functions as a machine for the fiscal operations of the
Government, -Congress cnuid authorize it to conduct such
private banking business as tended to make it ,a more
effective Government agent.
Can it be successfully contended that because Congress
uses national banks as a means for the execution of
conceded constitutional powers and may confer upon thiem
private powers deemed necessary for the successful performance of their public duties, it is also competent for
Congress prinarily to confer such private powers upon a
corporation which performs no public'functions?
:

SMITH v. KANSAS CITY TITLE CO.
180.

Argument of Mr. Bullitt for Appellant.

The farm mortgages executed to the Federal Land
Banks and to the Joint Stock Land Banks, and the
Farm Loan Bonds issued by them respectively, and held
by the general investing public, are subject to state
taxation.
There is no implied, as there certainly is no express,
power, in Congress to exempt property from state taxation. If exemption exists it is because it is essential to
some federal instrumentality to which the property
belongs. It exists then by force of the Constitution, and
it is for the court to declare it in applying the Constitution.
And Congress cannot, by any declaration, create an
exemption which would not have existed independently.
McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 425; Osborn v.
Bank, 9 Wheat. 777, 794, 795; Collector v. Day, 11 Wall.
113, 123; United States v. Railroad Co., 17 Wall. 322, 327;
Railroad Co. v. Peniston, 18 Wall. 5, 30; Dobbins v. Commi~sioners, 16 Pet. 435, 447; Van Brocklin v. Tennessee,
117 U. S. 151, 157.
The authorities show that many instrumentalities of
the Federal Government have been subjected to the power
of state taxation, because, in the opinion of this court,
such taxation did not interfere with their operations for
the Government; that such exemption arises under the
Constitution ex proprio vigore; that in the case of national
banks Congress has expressly provided (Rev. Stats.,
§ 5219) for the taxation of the shares of stock and the
bank's real estate exactly as Marshall, J., held in McCulloch v. Maryland they could be taxed. A short review
of the cases will show they are all consistent with these
principles. It has repeatedly been held that the States
may tax the property and operations of persons and corporations engaged in private business, although also
employed by the Federal Governmeint in the transaction
of its:business. HiberniaSavings Society v. San Francico:
200 U. S. 310; Thomon v. Pacific Railroad, 9 Wall. 579;

186

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument of Mr. Hagerman for Appellant.

255 U. S.

Railroad Co. v. Peniston, 18 Wall. 5, 30-35; Union Pacific
R. R. Co. v. Lincoln Coitnty, 1 Dill. 314; Gromer v. Standard
Dredging Co., 224 U. S. 362; Baltimore Shipbuilding Co. v.
Baltimore, 195 U. S.375, 382.
It is suggested (rather feebly it is true) that because
the Farm Loan Banks were given the power to buy and
sell United States bonds (a power that practically every
individual and corporation, state or federal, possesses),
they thereby became instrumentalities of ,the Federal
Government aiad exempt from state taxation. If that
argument were sound, every corporation and person who
had the power to invest in or who invested in government securities, would be exempted with respect to the
balance of his business from state taxation. Monroe
County Savings Bank v. City of Rochester, 37 N. Y. 365,
370; Plummer v. Coler, 178 U. S.115, 123.
Mr. Frank Hagermanfor appellant:
There, not having been expressly or by fair implication
surrendered by the Constitution to Congress the power
to create Land and, Joint Stock Banks, such power must'
be deemed not to have been granted, but reserved to the
States or to the people. Tenth Amendment; United
States v. Harris,106 U. S.629, 630, 636; Collector v. Day,
11 Wall. 113, 124; McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat.
316, 405, 410; Osborn v. Bank, 9 Wheat. 738; Bank v.
bearing 91 U. S. 29; FirstNational Bank v. Union Trust
Co., 244 U. S.416; Martin v. Hunter's Lessee, 1 Wheat.
304, 325; Chisholm v. Georgia, 2 Dall. 419, 435, 448; Ableman v. Booth, 21 How. 506, 516; Dobbins v. Erie County
Commissioners, 16 Pet. 435, 447; Van Brocklin v. Tennessee,
117 U. S.151, 178; United States v. Cruikshank, 92 U. S.
542, 549; Claflin v. Houseman, 93 U. S. 130, 136; License
Tax Cases, 5 Wall. 462, 470; Slaughter-House Cases, 16
Wall. 36, 62;Leisy v. Hardin, 135 U. S.100, 127; Cooley,
Const. Lim., 7th ed., 831; Hammer v. Dagenhart, 247

SMITH v. KANSAS CITY TITLE CO.
180.

187

Argumlent of Mr. Hagerman for Appellant.

U. S. 251, 255; Kansas v. Colorado, 206 U. S. 46, 87, 88.
Appellees radically differ in their contentions. The
Joint Stock Banks seek to support the power upon the
basis of a purpose to create agencies to perform governmental functions; the Land Banks, upon the inherent
right of the Government to appropriate its public money
for any public purpose. The real and only purpose of
the act was to enable owners of farm land, not necessarily
-farmers, to borrow, for any purpose, money on farm mortgages for very long terms at extremely low rates of interest.
This is clearly.shown by its language as well as by the
congressional debates, and by the governmental literature
and official announcements. As correctly declared, by
Senator Cummins in debate (53 Cong. Rec. 7246), "the
chief purpose is to secure a lower rate of interest to those
who borrow; that is its. only object." That the scheme
was, in fact, private in its nature and not governmental,
is also apparent from every provision of the act.
In the case of the Joint Stock Banks, there is not even
the flimsy pretense (which is claimed to exist in the case
of the Land Banks) that the power of appropriation was
exercised or that the money raised by the mortgages was
to 'be used for agricultural development. There was for
them no appropriation and there is no. limit or restriction
whatever as to the purposes for which the money loaned
may be used, as those banks are expressly exempted from
the'limitations imposed upon Land Banks in that respect.'
Even the co6perative and collective plan of borrowing by
the farmers, the joint and several liability of the banks,
and the degree of federal supervision, which exist in the
case of the Land Banks, and were the strongest arguments
advanced in Congress in favor of the act,-were specifically dispensed with in the case of the Joint Stock Banks,
because it was thought that some farmers might object
to a coiperative undertaking with their neighbors, oi
to the publicity and scrutiny thereby entailed. Senate

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument of Mr. Hagerman for Appellant.

255 U. S.

Rep. 144, p. 11; House Rep. 630, p. 910; 1st Annual
22.
Rep. of Federal Farm Loan Board, p.
These banks are expressly prohibited from receiving
deposits or doing any banking or other business (§ 16).
But the functions of Land Banks are also purely private.
The farm mortgages executed to both classes of banks
and the bonds issued by them thereon, and held by private
investors, are wholly instruments of private business.
They, like the Joint Stock Banks (§ 16), can do no banking
(§ 14), and do not possess any of the characteristics of
those institutions which have ever been held to be instrumentalities of the Government. The bonds of both classes
of banks are neither assets nor liabilities of the United
States. .It does not promise to pay or guarantee the payment of them. The money raised thereon does not go to it.
Not only were the agencies intended to be strictly private, but there was a distinct purpose not to appropriate
public money or lend it on the credit of the Government.
The congressional debates and committee reports and
the government official announcements all show that
there was actually no real purpose to provide necessary
and essential governmental agencies, nor to appropriate
money nor lend any public credit. They do, however,
affirmatively show, as Senator Cummins (53 Cong. Rec.
7246) 'stated, and the House Committee (64th Cong., 1st
sess., Report Nd. 630) reported, that the sole and only
object sought to be attained was to give the farmers longtime loans on farm mortgages at low interest rates.
It would therefore seem impossible to. conceive that
Congress, in fact, ever intended to exercise either of the
two alleged powers about the existence of which counsel
so radically differ.The act cannot be sustained on the theory of the Joint
Stock Banks, that it was an exercise of the power to establish agencies to perform necessary and essential gov,ernmenta. functions.

SMITH v. -KANSAS. CITY TITLE CO.
180.

Argument of Mr. Hagermanfor Appellant.

If the agencies. established were not, in fact, general
banks, or, regardless of what they were, if their main purSpose was not to exercise necessary and essential govern,mental functions, to, which private business was a mere
incident, the premise on which the proposition rests
-wholly fails. South Carolina v. United States, 109 U. S.
437 ' and the national bank cases, when properly applied, are Conclusive authorities in support of this view..
"A mere possibility" that either of the alleged banks
n1ight, under § 6, be unnecessarily used in the future for
some minor governmental purpose does not make it "an
agency of the United States." Baltimore Shipbuilding
Co. v. Baltimore, 195 U. S. 375, 382;Second Employers'
Liability Cases, 223 U. S. 1. The agency must be necessary and essential to aid the Government in performing
governmental duties. McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat.
316, 423; Osborn v. Bank, 9 Wheat. 738, 860, 861, 863;
Farmers' & Mechanics' Bank v. Dearing, 91 U. S. 29 33;
FirstNational Bank v. Union Trust Co., 244 U. S. 416,425.
The reasons for the establishment, of national banks
to perform necessary and essential governmental functions clearly show. that neither the Land nor the Joint
Stock Banks were created as -agencies for such purposes.. Unless they were; there is not authority in Congress to establish them.' Osborn v. Bank, 9 Wheat. 738,
.860. The fact that unnecessarily they may possibly, if
and when desired, be called upon to perform -a minor
governmental function is not sufficient. Banks are not
unknown things. They are capable of being and have
frequently been defined. The very definition, so far as,
concerns the exercise of a governmental function, is well
understood. All the powers of a State or the United
*States are either governmental or else private and proprietary. These two classes of powers are well defined, quite
distinct and fully recognized. South Carolina v. United
States, 199 U. S. 437, 461, 462; First National Bank v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument of Mr. Hagerman for Appellant.

255 U. S.

Union Trust Co., 244 U. S. 416; Illinois Trust & Savings
Bank v. Arkansas City, 76 Fed. Rep. 271, 282.
The money which the Government advanced to the
Land Banks as a loan to make the initial stock payment,
did not convert the scheme into one of a governmental
nature. The fact that the agencies provided were actually
named banks, or called instrumentalities of the Government, does not prevent an inquiry into the unquestionable fact that they were not in reality such.
The attempt by § 6 to provide for possible service to
the Government was a subterfuge and merely a scheme
to evad the Constitution. The section does not require
but only permits the banks to be designated as depositaries of public money and their employment as financial
agents of the Government. The law made no such designation nor any such requirement. Both agencies might
forever exist without either of them ever being so designated or employed. All government funds, if deposited in
any such depositary or financial agency, must be kept
separate and apart from any other funds and cannot be
invested in farm mortgages or bonds. It is wholly immaterial that some artful-mind may have suggested, as
indicated (53 Cong. Rec. 7246), the insertion of this
section to give to the scheme a color that governmental
functions were to be performed. It is sufficient to say
they were not the main purpose of the scheme. If anything, they were possibilities, and if availed of, mere
inbidents, wholly non-essential and unnecessary to the
main ,purpose.
This view accords with the practical working of the act.
The passage of the act cannot, as contended for by
the Land Banks, be sustained as an exercise of the power
to appropriate the public money for public purposes.
If, of course, the act is Unconstitutional as to either
class of banks, no tax exemption can, as to that bank, be
upheld. Norton v. Shelby Couhty, 118 U. S. 425.

, SMITH v. KANSAS CITY TITLE CO.
180.

Argument of Mr. Hagerman for Appellant.

While real governmental instrumentalities are exempt
and should be exempted from state taxation (Willoughby
on Constitution, § 45, et-seq.), the exemption should never
be lightly extended. Thomson v. Pacific Railroad, 9 Wall.
579.
There must, therefore, be an actual and essential governmental instrumentality before, without more, it is
or can by Congress be made exempt from any state tax.
Any restriction upon the State's power to tax arises from
the operation of the Constitution itself. Congress cannot, by any declaration of exemption, create one that
would not have equally existed without it. In other words,
any attempt by Congress to exempt property -from state
taxation, if valid, is merely declaratory of what the
exemption would have been anyway, without such declaration.
The principle underlying the cases is that neither the
state nor Federal Government can tax the property or
operations of any essential governmental instrumentality
of the other. The reason why the States can tax the
property and business of railroads, telegraph lines, etc.,
although they may have been chartered by Congress
and used in. part as governmental instrumentalities, and
yet cannot similarly tax national banks, lies' in this distinction between the two instrumentalities: The railroad
and telegraph lines could, in fact, perform all the services
for the Federal Government just as well without the addition of private business as they can with it (except 9s a
money making proposition); and hence in accordance
with the express language of Osborn v. Bank, 9 Wheat.
738, 861, the property and private operations oi the companies are generally taxable by the State. The banks,
as pointed out in that case and in McCullochv. Maryland,
4 Wheat. 316, could only satisfactorily perform .their
essential governmental duties by being endowed with
the right to transact priyate business; as private banking

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument of Mr. Hughes for Appellee.

255 U. S.

business was the very thing which was needed to enable
them to be an efficient machine for carrying out their
fiscal operations.
A Joint Stock Bank, acting as a depositary, could,
like the railroads, perform such a function just as satisfactorily to the Government without, as with, the addition
of private business.
The mere possibility that at some future time the
United States may elect to designate a Land or Joint
Stock Bank as a depositary and thereafter may further
elect actually to use it as such, while in the meantime
the corporation is engaged solely in private business for
private gain, certainly does not constitute the corporation
such an essential instrumentality of the Federal Govern.ment as to exempt it from state taxation. Baltimore,
Shipbuilding Co. v4 Baltimore, 195 U. S. 375, 382.
Mr. Charles E. Hughes for Federal Land Bank of
Wichita, Kansas, appellee:
Congress had power to use the public money, and to
provide for the borrowing of money to aid in agricultural
development throughout the country in accordance with
the systematic and general plan to promote the cultivation
of the soil, involving the application of money through.
loans or otherwise.
Congress was not limited to the use of public moneys,
by outright appropriations, but, having that authority,
could create a revolving fund.to be used through loans.
The purpose thus subserved through the provisions of
the act was a public purpose.
The Rarm Loan Act deals with pecuniary aid alone,
that is, it is concerned only with the application of money.
The pprposes in view are public, not piivate; national,
not local.
Having this-power, with respect to the use of money,
Congress could exercise the power by the adoption of

SMITH v. KANSAS CITY TITLE CO.
180.

193

Argument of Mr. Wickersham for Appellee.

appropriate means to that end and the creation of instrumentalities for that purpose.
Congress has the power to judge for-itself what fiscal
agencies the Government needs and its decision of that
question is not open to judicial review. Congress may
create in its discretion, as in this instance it has created,
moneyed institutions to serve as fiscal agents of the Government and also to provide a market, as stated in the
act, for United States bonds.
Congress may protect the securities created under its
legislation, from impairment or destruction, by making
them exempt from taxation.
Mr. W. W Willoughby filed a separate brief on behalfi
of the Federal Land Bank of Wichita, Kansas, appellee.Mr. George W. Wickersham, with whom Mr. W. G. McAdoo was on the briefs, for First Joint Stock, Land Bank
of Chicago, appellee:
There is no essential difference between the Federal
-Land Banks and the Joint Stock Land Banks so far as
congressional authority for their creation is concerned.
The burden is upon appellant to establish the unconstitutionality of the Farm Loan Actfbeyond a reasonable doubt.
Appellant's attack on the constitutionality of the Farm,
Loan Act is based upon the erroneous hypothesis that
the banks provided for in it are private institutions, established for a privatepurpose. This fallacy runs throughout his argument.
The Farm Loan'Banks of both classes are banking
instrumentalities lawfully created by Congress for a
public purpose, namely, that of facilitating the fiscal
operations of the Government. They are designed to
relieve the national banks from the demands of longtime agricultural credits. The operations of the banks

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument of Mr. Wickersham for Appellee.

255 U. S.

have an influence upon public credit scarcely less important to the fiscal operations of the Government than
that which led to the creation of the United States banks
and the national banks.
The general purposes of the Farm Loan Act might
have been attained by Congress through the direct
exercise of the powers of taxation and borrowing.
Having the power to raise money for the purposes
uider consideration by :taxation or borrowing, and to
apply it directly, through the Treasury, or other department, Congress may accomplish the same ends through
corporate instrumentalities adapted to or created for
the purpose.
-Since McCulloch v. Maryland and Osborn v. Bank, the
power of Congress to create corporations to execute its
powers is unquestionable.
Private stockholding in Farm Loan Banks does not
make the enterprise a private one.
Congress is sole judge of the powers it shall confer on
a corporation rawfully created by it.
The banks of the Farm Loan System were created
for public purposes.
Having created land banks for these lawful purposes,
Congress also has power to adapt them to other legitimate
federal purpcses.
The provisions exempting from taxation, state or
federal, the mortgages executed to secure loans made by
Federal Land Banks or Joint Stock Land Banks, and
Farm Loan Bonds issued by either class of banks, under
the provisions of the Farm Loan Act, and the income
derived therefrom, are within the powers of Congress to
enact.
Congress might constitutionally have created both
classes of banks to serve as depositaries of public moneys
and financial agents of the Government. That it chose
also to empower them to loan moneys on farm mort-

SMITH v. KANSAS CITY TITLE CO.
180.

[
.195

Opinion of the Court.

gages, even if that were not within its power to grant as
a sole and distinct object, would not impair the legality
of the incorporation, nor the power of, Congress to protect them against'national and state taxation.
The Farm Loan Act was passed after greatconsideration
and discussion. Vast amounts have been invested in
reliance upon it. Entire absence of constitutional power
must -be demonstrated beyond controversy before this
court will declare worthless millions of securities issued
on the faith of congressional authority.
Mr. Justin D. Bowersock filed a brief on behalf of
Kansas City Title & Trust .Company, appellee.
The Solicitor General, Mr. W. G. McAdoo, Special
Assistant to the Attorney General, and Mr. J. P. Cotton,
by leave of court, filed a brief on behalf of the United
States as amici curice 1
MR.JUSTICE DAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

A bill was filed in the United States District Court for
the Western Division of the Western District of Missouri
by a shareholder in the Kansas City Title & Trust Company to enjoin the Company, its officers, agents and employees from investing the funds of the Company in farm
loan bonds issued by Federal Land Banks or Joint Stock
Land Banks under authority of the Federal Farm Loan:
Act of July 17, 1916, c. 245, 39 Stat. 360, as amended
January 18, 1918, c. 9, 40 Stat. 431.
The relief was sought on the ground that these acts were
beyond the constitutional power of Congress. The bill
avers that the Board of Directors of the Compan3 are
'At the first hearing Mr. Solicitor General King and Mr. W. G.
McAdoo, by leave of court, filed a brief on behalf of the United
States as amici curia.

.OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

about to invest its funds in the bonds to the amount of
$10,000 in each of the classes described, and will do so unless enjoined by the court in this action. The bill avers the
formation of twelve Federal Land Banks, and twenty-one
Joint Stock Land Banks under the provisions of the act.
As to the Federal Land Banks, it is averred that each of
them has loaned upon farm lands large amounts secured by
mortgage, and, after depositing the same with the Farm
Loan Registrar, has executed and issued collateral trust
obligations called Farm Loan Bonds, secured by the depositing of an equivalent amount of farm mortgages and
notes; and thateach of said Federal Land Banks has sold,
and is continuing to offer for sale, large amounts of said
Farm Loan Bonds. The bill also avers that various persons in different parts of the United States have organized
twenty-one Joint Stock Land Banks, the capital stock of
which is subscribed for and owned by private persons; that
the Joint Stock Land Banks have deposited notes and
mortgages with the Farm Loan Registrar, and issued an
equivalent amount of cqllateral trust obligations called
Farm Loan Bonds, which have been sold and will be continued to be offered for sale to investors in large amounts
in the markets of the country. A statement is given of the
amount of deposits by the Secretary of the Treasury with
the Federal Land Banks, for which the banks have issued
their certificates of indebtedness bearing interest at 2%,
per annum. It is averred that on September 30, 1919,
Federal Land Banks owned United States bonds of the par
value of $4,230,805; and the Joint Stock Land Banks
owned like bonds of the par value of $3,287,503 on August 31, 1919; that pursuant to the provisions of the
act the Secretary of the Treasury has invested $8,892,130
of the public funds in the capital stock of the Federal
Land Banks, and that on July 1, 1919, the Secretary
of the Treasury on behalf of the United States held
$8,265,809of the capital stock of the Federal Land Banks;

SMITH v. KANSAS CITY TITLE CO.
180.

Opinion of the Court.

that pursuant to the provisions of § 32 of the act, as
amended, the Secretary of the Treasury has purchased
Farm Loan Bonds issued by the Federal Land Banks of
the par value of $149,775,000; that up to September 30,
1919, bonds have been issued under the act by the Federal
Land Banks to the amount of $285,600,000, of which about
$i35,000,000 are held in the Treasury of the United States,
purchased under the authority of the amendment of
January-18, 1918; that up to September 30, 1919, twentyseven Joint Stock Land Banks have been incorporated
under the act, having an aggregate capital of $8,000,000,
all of which has been subscribed and $7,450,000 paid in;
that bonds have been issued by Joint Stock Land Banks to
the amount of $41,000,000, which are now in the hands of
the public; that the Secretary of the Treasury up to the
time of the filing of the bill has not designated any of the
Federal Land Banks nor the Joint Stock Land Banks as
depositaries of public money, nor, except as stated later in
the.bill, has he employed them or any of them as financial
n.gents of the Government, nor have they or any of them
performed any duties as depositaries of public money, nor
have they or any of them accepted any deposits or engaged in any banking business. The bill avers that during
the summer of 1918 the Federal Land Banks at Wichita,
St. Paul and Spokane were designated as financial agents
of the Government for making seed grain loans to farmers
in drought-stricken sections, the President having at the
request of the Secretary of Agriculture set aside $5,000,000
for that purpose out of the $100,000,000 war funds. The
three banks mentioned made upwards of 15,000 loans of
that character, aggregating a sum upwards of $4,500,000,
and are now engaged in collecting these loans, all of which
are secured by crop liens; that these bank act in that
capacity without compensation, receiving only the actual
expenses incurred.
Section 27 of the act provides that Farm Loan .Bonds

198

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

issued under the provisions of the act by Federal Land
Banks or Joint Stock Land Banks shall be a lawful investinent for all fiduciary and trust funds, and may be accepted
as security for all public deposits. The bill avers that the
defendant Trust Company is authorized to buy, invest in
and sell government, state and municipal and other bonds,
but it cannot buy, invest in or sell any such bonds, papers,
,stocks or securities which are not authorized to be issued
by a 'Valid law or which are not investment securities, but
that nevertheless it is about to invest in Farm Loan Bonds;
that the Trust Company has been induced to direct its
officers to make the investment by reason of its reliance
upon the provisions of the Farm Loan Acts, especially
§§ 21, 26 and 27, by which the Farm Loan Bonds are declared to be instrumentalities of the Government of the
United States, and as such with the income derived therefrom, are declared to be exempt from federal, state, municipal and local taxation, and are further declared to be lawful
investments for all fiduciary and trust funds. The bill further avers that the acts by which it is attempted to authorize the bonds are wholly illegal, void and unconstitutional
and of no effect because unauthorized' by the Constitution of the United States.
The bill prays that the acts of Congress authorizing; the
creation of the banks, especially §§ 21, 26 and 27 thereof,
shall be adjudged and decreed to be unconstitutional, void
and of no effect, and that the issuance of the Farm Loan
Bonds, and the taxation exemption feature thereof, shall
be adjudged and decreed to be invalid:
The First Joint Stock Land Bank of Chicago and the
Federal Land Bank of Wichita, Kansas, were allowed to
intervene and became parties defendant to the suit. The
Kansas City Title & Trust Company filed a motion to dismiss in the nature of a general demurrer, and upon hearing
the District Court entered a decree dismissing the bill.
From this decree appeal was taken to this court.

SMITH v. KANSAS CITY TITLE CO.
180.

Opinion of the Court.

No objection is made to the federal jurisdiction, either
original or appellate, by the parties to this suit, but that
question will be first examined. The Company is authorized to invest its funds in legal securities only. The attack
upon the proposed investment in the bonds described is
because of the alleged unconstitutionality of the acts of
Congress undertaking to organize the banks and authorize
the issue of the bonds. No other reasonis set forth in the
bill as a ground of objection to the proposed investment by
the Board of Directors acting in the Company's behalf.
As diversity of citizenship is lacking, the jurisdiction of
the District Court depends upon whether the cause of action set forth arises under the Constitution or laws of the
United States. Judicial Code, §24.
The general rule is that whereit appears from the-bill
or, tatement of the plaintiff that the right to relief depends
upon the construction or application of the Constitution or
laws of the United States, and that such federal claim is not
merely colorable, and rests upon a reasonable foundation,
the District Court has jurisdiction under this provision.
At an early date, considering the grant of constitutional
power to confer jurisdiction upon the federal courts, Chief
Justice Marshall said: "A case in law or equity consists
of the right of the one party, as well as of the other, and
may truly be said to arise under the Constitution or a law
of the United States, whenever its correct decision depends
on the construction of either, "Cohens v. Virginia,6 Wheat.
264, 379; and again, when "the title or right set up by the
party may be-defeated by one construction of the Constitution or law of the United States, and sustained by the
opposite construction." Osborn v. Bank of the United
States, 9 Wheat. 738, 822. These definitions were quoted
and approved in Pattonv. Brady, 184 U. S. 608, 611, citing
Gold-Washing Co. v. Keyes, 96 U. S. 199, 201; Tennessee v.
Davis, 100 U. S. 257; White v. Creenhow, 114 U. S. 307;
Railroad Company v. Mississippi, 102 U. S. 135 139.

200

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

This characterization of a suit arising under the Constitution or laws of the United States has -been followed
in many decisions of this and other federal courts. See
Macon Grocery Co. V. Atlantic Coast Line R. R. Co., 215
U. S. 501 506, 507; Shulthis v. McDougal, 225 U. S. 561,
569, paragraph 3. The principle was applied in Brishaber
v. Union PacificR. R. Co., 240 U. S..1, in which a shareholder filed a bill to enjoin the defendant corporation from
complying with the income tax provisions of the Tariff Act
of October 3, 1913. In that case while there was diversity
of citizenship, a direct appeal tQ this court was sustained
because of the constitutional questions raised in the bill,
which had been dismissed by the court below. The repugnancy of the statute to the Constitution of the United
States, as well as grounds of equitable jurisdiction, were set
forth in the bill, and the right to come here on direct appeal was sustained because of the averments based upon
constitutional objections to the act. Reference was made
to Pollock v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co., 157 U. S. 429,
where a similar shareholder's right to sue was-maintained,
and a direct appeal to this court from a decree of the Circuit Court was held to bd authorized.
In the Brushaber Case the Chief Justice, speaking for the
court, said:
"The right -to prevent the corporation from returning
and. paying the tax was based upon many averments as to
the repugnancy ofthe statute to the Constitution of the
United States,, of the peculiar relation of the corporation
to theostockholders and their particular interests resulting
from many of the administrative provisions of the assailed
act, of the confusibn, wrong and multiplicity of suits and
the absence of all means of redress which -would result if
the corporation paid the tax and complied with the act in
other respects without protest, as it was alleged it was its
intention to do. To put out of the way a question of jurisdiction weat once say that in view of these averments and

SMITH v. KANSAS CITY TITLE CO.
180.

Opinion of the Court.

the ruling in Pollock v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co., 157

U. S. 429, sustaining the right of a stockholder to sue to restrain a corporation under proper averments from voluntarily paying a tax charged to be unconstitutional on the
ground that to permit such a suit did not violate the
prohibitions of § 3224, Rev. Stat., against enjoining the
enforcement of taxes, we are of opinion that the contention
here made that there was no jurisdiction of the cause since
to entertain it would violate the provisions of the Revised
Statutes referred to is without merit. . .
"Aside from averments as to citizenship and residence,
recitals as to the provisions of the statute and statements
as to the business of the corporation contained in the first
ten paragraphs of the bill.advanced to sustain jurisdiction,
the bill alleged twenty-one constitutional objections specified in that number of paragraphs or subdivisions. As all
the grounds assert a violation 'of the Constitution, it
follows that in a wide sense they all charge a repugnancy
of the statute to the Sixteenth Amendment under the more
immediate sanction of which the statute was adopted."
The jurisdiction of this court is to be determined upon
the principles laid down in the cases referred to. In the

instant case the averments of the bill show that the directors were proceeding to make the investments in view of
the act authorizing the bonds about to be purchased, main-

taining that the act authorizing them was constitutional
and the bonds valid and desirable investments. The objecting shareholder avers in the bill that the securities

were issued under an unconstitutional law, and hence of no
validity.' It is, therefore, apparent that the controversy
concerns the constitutional validity of an act of Congress
which is directly drawn in question. The decision depends
upon the determination of this issue.
The general allegations as to the interest of the shareholder, and his right to have an injunction to prevent the
purchase of the alleged unconstitutional securities by mis-

202

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. 8.

application of the funds of the corporation, give junisdiction under the principles settled in Poboct v. Farme'rs'Loan
& Trust Co., and Brushaberv. UnionPacific R. R. Co., supra. We are, therefore, of the opinion, that the District
Court had jurisdiction under the averments of the bill, and
that a direct appeal to this court upon. constitutional
grounds is authorized.
We come to examine the questions presented by the attack upon the constitutionality of the legislation in question. The Federal Farm Loan Act is too lengthy to set Qut
in full. It is entitled: "An Act To provide capital for
agricultural development, to create standard forms of investment based upon farm mortgage, to equalize rates of
interest upon farm loans, to furnish a market for United
States bonds, tocreate Government depositaries and financial agents for the United States, and for other purposes."'
The administration of the act is placed under the direction and control of a Federal. Farm Loan Bureau established atthe seat of Government in the Treasury Department, under the general supervision of the Federal Farm
Loan -Board, consisting of the Secretary of the Treasury
and four members appointed by the President by and with
the advice and consent of the Senate..- The United States
is-divided into twelve districts for the-purpose of establishing Federal Land Banks. Each of the banks must have
a subscribed capital of not less than $750,000, divided into
shares of $5.00 each, which may be subscribed for by any
individual, firm or corporation, or by the government of
any State, or of the United States. No dividends shall be
paid on the stock owned by the United States, but all other
stock shall:share in dividend distributions without preference.- The Federal Farm Loan- Board is to designate five
directors who shall temporarily manage the affairs of each
Federal Land Bank, -and who shall prepare an organization
certi'ficate which, when approved by the Federal Farm
Loan Board and filed with the Farm Loan Commissioner,

SMITH v. KANSAS CITY TITLE CO.

180.

Opinion of the Court.

shall operate to create the bank a body corporate. The
-Federal Farm Loan Board is required to open books ofsubscription for the capital stock of each Federal Land
Bank, and, if within thirty days thereafter any part of the
minimum capitalization of $750,000 of any such bank shall
remain unsubscribed, it is made the duty of the Secretary
of the Treasury to subscribe the balance on behalf of the
United States.
The amendment of January 18, 1918, authorizes the
Secretary of the Treasury to purchase bonds issued by
Federal Land Banks, and provides that the temporary
organization of rmy such bank shall be continued so long
as any Farm Loan Bonds shall be held by the Treasury,
and until the subscription to stock in such bank by National Farm Loan Associations shall equal the amount of
the stock held by the United States Government. Wrhen
these conditions are complied with a permanent organization is to take over the management of the bank consisting
of a Board of Directors composed of nine members, three
of whom shall be known as district directors and shall be
appointed by the Farm Loan Board, who shall represent
the public interest, six of whom to be known as local directors, shall be chosen by, and be representative of National
Farm Loan Associations.
Federal Land Banks are empowered to invest their funds
in the purchase of qualified first mortgages on farm lands
situated within the Federal Land Bank District within
which they are organized or acting. Loans on farm mortgages are to be made to cooperative borrowers through
the organization of corporations. known as Nation al Farm
Loan Associations, by persons desiring to borrovr money
on farm mortgage security under the terms of the act. Ten
or more natural persons who are the owners of or are about
to become the owners of farm land qualified as sec Lrity for
mortgage loans, and who desire to borrow money on farm
mortgage security, may unite to form a National Farm

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

Loan Association. ' The manner of forming these associations, and the qualifications for membership, are set out in
the act.
A loan desired by each such person must be for not more
than $10,000 nor less than $100, and the aggregate of the
desired loans not less than $20,000. The application for
loan must be accompanied by subscriptions to stock of a
Federal Land Bank equal to 5%of the aggregate sum desired on the mortgage loan. Provision is made for appraisal of the land, and report to the Federal Farm Loan
Board. No persons but borrowers on farm loan mortgages shall be members or shareholders of National Farm
Loan Associations.
Shareholders in Farm Loan Associations are made individually .responsible for the debts of the Association to
the extent of the amount of the stock owned by them respectively, in addition to the amount paid in and represented by their shares.
When any National Farm Loan Association shall desire
to secure for any member a loan on first mortgage from the
Federal Land Bank in its district, it must subscribe to the
capital stock of the Federal Land Bank-to an amount of
5% of such loan, which capital stock shall be held by the
Federal Land Bank as collateral security for the payment
of the loan, the Association shall be paid any dividends
accruing and payable on the capital stock while it is outstanding. Such stock may, in the discretion of the directors and with -the approval of the Federal Farm Loan
Board, be paid off at par and retired, and shall be so
retired upon the full payment of the mortgage loan. In
such event, the National Farm Loan Association must
.pay off at par and retire the corresponding shares of
its stock which were issued when the Land Bank stock
so retired was issued; but it is further provided that the
capital stock of the Land Bank shall not be reduced to
less than 5% of the principal of the outstanding Farm

SMITH v. KANSAS CITY TITLE CO.
180.

205.

Opinion of the Court.

Loan Bonds issued by it. The shares in National Farm
Loan Associations shall be of the par value of $5.00 each.
At least 25% of that part of the capital of any Federal
Land Bank for which stock is outstanding in, the name of
National Farm Loan Associations must be held in quick
assets. Not less than 5% of such capital must be invested
in United States Government Bonds.
The loans which Federal Land Banks may make upon
first mortgages on farm lands are provided for in § 12 of the
act. By § 13 these banks are empowered, subject*to the
provisions of the act, to issue and sell Farm Loan Bonds
of the kind described in the act, and to invest funds
in their possession in qualified first mortgages on farm
lands, to receive and to deposit in trust with the Farm
Loan Registrar, to be held by him as collateral security for Farm Loan Bonds, first mortgages upon farm
lands, and, with the approval of the Farm Loan Board, to
issue and to sell their bonds secured by the deposit of first
mortgages on qualified farm lands as collateral, in- conformity with the provisions of § 18 of the act. By the
amendment of January 18, 1918, the Secretary of the
Treasury was empowered during the years 1918 and 1919,
to purchase Farm Loan Bonds issued by Federal Land
Banks to an amount n6t exceeding $100,000,000 each year,
and any Federal Land Bank was authorized at any time to
repurchasd at Par and accrued interest, for the purpose of
redemption or resale, any of the bonds so purchased from.
it and held in the United States Treasury.
It -is
also provided that the bonds of any Federal Land
Bank so purchased and held in the Treasury one year
after the termination of the pending war shall, uponthirty
days'. notice from the Secretary of the Treasury, be redeemed and repurchased by such bank at par and accrued
interest. By § 15 it is provided that whenever, after the
act shall have been in effect for one year, it shall appear to
the Federal Farm Loan Board that National Farm Loan

206

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

Associations have not been formed and'are not likely to be
formed, in any locality, because of peculiar local conditions, the Board may in its discretion authorize Federal
Land Banks to make loans on farm lands through agents
approved by the Board, on the terms and conditions and
subject to the restrictions prescribed in that section.
The act also authorizes the incorporation of Joint Stock
Land Banks, with capital provided by private subscrip*tion. They are organized by not less than ten natural persons, and are subject to the requirements of the provisions
of § 4 of the act so far as applicable.- The board of direc-.
tors shall consist of not less than five members. Each
shareholder shall have the same voting privileges as the
holders of shares in National Banking Associations, and
shall be held individually responsible, equally and ratably,
and-not one for another, for all contracts, debts, and engagements of such bank to the extent of the amount of
stock owned by them at the par value thereof, in addition
to the amount paid in and represented by their shares. The'
*Joint Stock Land Bank is authorized to do business when
capital stock to the amount of $250,000 has been subscribed, and one-half paid in cash, the balance remaining
subject to call by the board of directors, the charter to be
issued by the Federal Farm Loan Board. No bonds shall
be issued until the capital stock is entirely paid up. Except as otherwise provided, Joint Stock Land Banks shall
have the, powers of and be subject to all the restrictions
and conditions imposed on Federal Land Banks by the
act, so far as such conditions or restrictions are applicable.
Federal Land Banks may issue Farm Loan Bonds up to
twenty times their capital and surplus. Joint Stock Land
Banks are limited to the issue of Farm Loan Bonds not in
excess of fifteen times the amount of their capital and surplus. Joint Stock Land Banks can only loan on first mortgages upon land in the State where located, or in a State

SMITH v. KANSAS CITY TITLE CO.
180.

Opinion of the Court.

contiguous thereto. No loan on mortgage may be made
by any bank at a rate exceeding 6% per annum exclusive
of amortization payments. Joint Stock Land Banks shall
in no case charge a rate of interest on farm loans which
shall exceed by more than 1% the rate established by the
last series of Farm Loan Bonds issued by them, which rate
shall not exceed 5% per annum.
Provisions for the issue of Farm Loan Bonds secured by
first mortgages on farm lands or United States bonds, as
collateral, are made for Federal Land Banks and Joint
Stock Land Banks; in each case the issue is made subject to the approval of the Federal Farm Loan Board.
The farm loan mortgages, or United States bonds, which
constitute the collateral security for the bonds, must be
deposited with the Farm Loan Registrar.
Section 26 of the act provides as follows: "That every
Federal land bank and every national farm loan association, including the capital and reserve or surplus therein
and the income derived therefrom, shall be exempt from
Federal, State,: municipal, and local taxation, except
taxes upon real estate held, purchased, or taken by said,
bank or association under the provisions of section eleven
and section thirteen of this Act. First mortgages executed
to Federal land banks, or to joint stock land banks, and
farm loan bonds issued under the provisions of this Act,
shall be deemed and leld to be instrumentalities of the
Government of the United States, and as such they and
the income derived therefrom shall be exempt from Federal, State, municipal, and local taxation.
"Nothing herein shall prevent the shares in any joint
stock land bank from being included in the valuation of
the personal property of the owner or holder of such
shares, in assessing taxes imposed by authority of the
State within which the bank is located;. but such assessment and taxation shall be in manner and subject to the
conditions and limitations contained in section fifty-two

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

hundred and nineteen of the Re-ised Statutes with reference to the shares of national banking associations.
"Nothing herein shall be construed to exempt the real
property of Federal and joibt stock land banks and national farm loan associations from either State, county,
or municipal taxes, to the same extent, according to its
value, as other real property is taxed."
Since the decision of the great cases of McCulloch v.
Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, and Osborn v. Bank, 9 Wheat.
738, it is no longer an open question that Congress may
establish banks for national purposes, only a small part
of the capital of which is held by the Government, and a
majority of the ownership in which is represented by
shares of capital stock privately owned and held; the
principal business of such banks being private banking

conducted with the usual methods of such business.
While the express power to create a bank or incorporate
one is not found in the Constitution, the court, speaking
by Chief Justice. Marshall, in McCulloch v. Maryland,
found authority so to do in the broad general powers
conferred by the Constitution upon the Congress to levy
and collect taxes, to borrow money, to regulate commerce,
to pay the public debts, to declare and conduct war, to
raise and support armies, and to provide and maintain a
navy, etc. Congress it was held had authority to use
such means as were deemed appropriate to exercise the
great powers of the Government by virtue of Article I,
§8, cl. 18, .pf the Constitution granting to Congress the
right to make all laws necessary and proper to make the
grant effectual. In First National Bank v. Union Trust
Co., 244 U. S. 416, 419, -the Chief Justice, speaking for
the court, after reviewing McCulloch v. Maryland, and
Osba.in v. Bank, and considering the power given to Congress to pass laws to make the specific powers granted
effectual, said:
"In terms it was pointed out that this broad authority

SMITH v. KANSAS CITY TITLE CO.
180.

Opinion of the Court.

was not stereotyped as of any particular time but endured,
thus furnishing a perpetual and living sanction to the
legislative authority within the limits of a just discretion
enabling it to take into consideration the changing wants
and demands of society and to adopt provisions appropriate to meet every situation which it was deemed required
to be provided for."
That the formation of the bank was required in the
judgment of the Congress for the fiscal operations of the
Government, was a principal consideration upon which
Chief Justice Marshall rested the authority to create
the bank; and for that purpose being an appropriate
measure in the judgment of the Congress, it was held
not to be within the authority of the court to question
the conclusion reached by the legislative branch of the
Government.
Upon the authority of MeCulloch v. Maryland, and
Osborn v. Bank, the national banking system was established, and upon them this court has rested the constitutionality of the legislation establishing such banks.
Farmers' & Mechanics' National Bank v. Dearing, 91
U. S. 29, 33, 34.
Congress has seen fit in § 6 of the act to make both
classes of banks, when designated for that purpose by
the Secretary of the Treasury, depositaries of public
money, except receipts from customs, under regulations
to be prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury, and
has authorized their employment as financial agents of
the Government, and the banks are required to perform
such reasonable duties, as depositaries of public moneys
and financial agents as may be required of them. The
Secretary of the Treasury shall require of the Federal
Land Banks and the Joint Stock Land Banks, thus
designated, satisfactory security, by the deposit of United
States bonds or otherwise, for the safe-keeping and prompt
payment of the public money deposited with them, aid

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

for the faithful performance of their duties as the financial agents of the Government.
Section-6 also provides that no government funds deposited under the provisions of the section shall be invested in mortgage loans or Farm Loan Bonds.
It is said that the power to designate these banks as
such depositaries has not been exercised by the Government, and that the Federal Land Banks have acted as
federal agents only in the case of loans of money for seed
purposes made in the summer of 1918, to which we have
already referred. But the existence of the power under the
Constitution is not determined by the extent of the
exercise of the authority conferred under it. Congress
declared it necessary to create these fiscal agencies, and
to make them authorized depositaries of public money.
Its power to do so is no longer open to question.
But, it is urged, the attempt to create these
federal
agencies, and to make these banks fiscal agents and public
depositaries of the Government, is but a pretext. But
nothing is better settled by the decisions of this court
than that when Congress acts within the limits of its constitutional authority, it isnot the province of the judicial
branch of the Government to question its motives.
Veazie Bank v. Fenno, 8 Wall. 533, 541; McCray v. United
States, 195 U. S. 27; Flint v. Stone Tracy Co., 220 U. S.
107, 147, 153, 156, and cases cited.
That Congress has seen fit, in making these banks fiscal
agencies and depositaries of public moneys, to grant
noto them banking powers of a limited character, inwise detracts from the authority of Congress to use
them for the governmental purposes named, if it sees fit
to do so. A bank may be organized with or without the
authority to issue currency. It may be authorized to
receive deposits in only a limited way. Speaking generally, a bank is a moneyed institution to facilitate the
llorrowing, lending and caring for money. But whether

SMITH v. KANSAS CITY TITLE CO.
180.

211

Opinion of the Court.

technically banks, or not, these organizations may serve
the governmental purposes declared by Congress in their
creation. Furthermore, these institutions are organized
to serve as a market for United States bonds. Not less
than 5% of the capital of the Federal Land Banks, for
which stock is outstanding to Farm Loan Associations,
is required to be invested in-United States bonds. Both
kinds of banks are empowered to buy and sell United
States bonds.
_ In First National Bank v. Union Trust Co., supra, this
court sustained the power of Congress to enable a national
bank to transact business, which, by itself considered,
might be beyond the power of Congress to authorize.
In that case it was held to be within the authority of
Congress to permit national banks to exercise, by permission of the-Federal Reserve Board, when not in contravention of local law, the office of trustee, -executor,
administrator or registrar of stocks or bonds.
We, therefore, conclude that the creation of these
banks, and the grant of authority to. them to act for the
Government as depositaries of public moneys and purchasers of Government bonds, brings them within the
creative power of Congress although they may be intended,
in connection with other privileges and duties, to facilitate
the making of loans upon farm security at low rates of
interest. This does not destroy the validity of these enactments any more than the general banking powers
destroyed the authority of Congress to create the United
States Bank, or the authority given to national banks to
carry on additional activities, destroyed the authority
of Congress to create those institutions.
In the brief filed upon reargument counsel for the appellant seem to admit the power of Congress to appropriate
money for the direct purposes named, and in that brief
they say: "Tax exemption is the real issue sought to
be settled here." Deciding, as we do, that these institu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.

Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

tions have been created by Congress within the exercise
of its legitimate authority, we think the power to make
the securities here involved tax exempt necessarily
follows. This principle was settled in McCulloch v. Maryland, and Osborn v. Bank, supra.
That the Federal Government can, if it sees fit to do so,
exempt such securities from taxation, seems obvious upon
the clearest principles. But, it is said to be an invasion
of state authority to extend the'tax exemption so as to
restrain the power of the State. Of a similar contention
made in McCuloch v. Maryland, Chief Justice Marshall
uttered his often quoted statement: "That the power
to tax involves the power to destroy; that the power to
destroy may defeat and render useless the power to create;
that there is a plain repugnance in conferring on, one
government a power to control the constitutional measures
of another, which other, with respect to those very measures, is declared to be supreme over that which exerts
the control,-are propositions not to be denied." 4 Wheat.
431.
The same principle has been recognized in the National
Bank Cases declaring the power of the States to tax the
property and franchises of national *banks only to the
extent authorized by the laws of Congress. Owensboro
National Bank v. Owensboro, 173 U. S. 664, involved
the validity of a franchise tax in Kentucky on national
banks. In that case this court declared (pp. 668, 669)
that the States were wholly without power to levy any
tax directly or indirectly upon national banks, their
property, assets or franchises, except so far as the permissive legislation of Congress -allowed such taxation;
atid the court declared that the right granted to tax the
-real estate of such banks, and the shares in the names of
the shareiolders, constituted the extent of the permission
given by Congress, and any tax beyond these was declared
to be void.

SMITH v. KANSAS CITY TITLE CO.
180.
Opinion of the Court.
In -Farmers & Mechanics Satnngs Bank v."Minnesota,
232 U. S. 516, this court held that a State may not tax
bonds issued by the municipality of a territory; that to tax
such bonds as property in the hands of the holder is, in
the last analysis, an imposition upon the right of a municipality to issue them.
The exercise of such taxing power by the States nugtit
be so used as to hamper and destroy the exercise of authority conferred by Congress, and this justifies the
exemption. If the States can tax these bonds they may
destroy the means provided for, obtaining the necessary
funds for the future operation of the banks. With the
wisdom and policy of this legislation we have nothing
to do. Ours is only the function of ascertaining whether
Congress in the creation of the banks, and in exempting
these, securities jfrom taxation, federal and state, has
acted within the limits of its constitutional authority.
For the reasons stated, we think the contention of
the Government, and -of the appellees, that these banks
are constitutionally organized and. the securities 'here
involved legally exempted from taxation, must, be sustained.
It follows that the decree of the District Court is

Affirnmed.
MR.JUSTICE BRADEIS took no part in the consideratior

or decision of this case.
MR.JUsTiCEHoLmEs, dissenting.

No ddubt it is desirable that the question raised in this
case should be set at rest, but that can be done by the
Courts of the United States only within the limits of the
jurisdiction conferred upon them by the Constitution and
the laws of the Tnited States. As this suit was brbught
by a citizen of Missouri against a Missouri corporation the

214

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
HOLMES, and MCREYNOLDS, JJ., dissenting. - 255 U. S.

single ground upon which the jurisdiction of the District
Court can be maintained is that the suit "arises under the
Constitution or laws of the United States" within the
meaning of § 24 of the Judicial Code. I am of opinion that
this case does not arise in that way and therefore that the
bill should have been dismissed.
It is evident that the cause of action arises not under
any law of the United' States but wholly under Missouri
law. The defendant .is a Missouri corporation and the
right claimed is that of a stockholder to prevent the directors from doing an act, that is, making an investment,
alleged to be contrary to their duty. But the scope of their
duty depends upon the charter of their corporation and
other laws of Missouri., If those laws had authorized the
investment in terms the plaintiff would have had no case,
and this seems to me to make manifest what I am unable
to deem even debatable, that, as I have said, the-cause of
..action arises wholly under Missouri law. If the Missouri
law authorizes or forbids the investment according to the
determination of this Court upon a point under the Constitution or acts of Congress, still that. point is material
only because the Missouri law saw fit to make it so. The
whole foundation of the duty is Missouri law, which at its
sole will incorporated the other law as it might incorporate
a document. The other law or document depends for its
relevance and effect not on its own force but upon the law
that took it up, so I repeat. once more the cause of action
arises whoUy from the law of the State.
But it beems to me that a suit cannot be said to arise
under any other law -than that which creates the cause of
action. It may be enough that the law relied upon creates
a part of the cause of action although not the whole, as held
in Osborn v. Bank of the United States, 9 Wheat. 738, 819823, which perhaps is all that is meant by the less guarded
expressions in Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 264, 379. I am
content to assume this to be so, although the Osborn Case

SMITH v. KANSAS CITY TITLE CO.

180.

HOLMES and McREyxoLDs, JJ., dissenting.

has been criticized and regretted. But the law must create
at least a part of the cause of action by its own force, for
it is the suit, not a question in the suit, that must arise under the law of the United States. The mere adoption by a
state law of a United States law as a oriterion or test, when
the law of the United States has no force proprio vigore,
does not cause a case under the state law to be also a case
under the law of the United States, and so it has been
decided by this Court again and again. Miller v. Swann,
150 U. S. 132, 136, 137; Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co v.
Western Union Telegraph Co., 237 U. S. 300, 303. See
also Shoshone Mining Co. v. Rutter, 177 U. S. 505, 508, 509.
I find nothing contrary to my views in Brushaberv. Union
Pacific R. R. Co., 240 U. S. 1, 10. It seems to me plain
that the objection that I am considering was not before'
the mind of the Court or the subject of any of its observations, if open. I am confirmed in my view of that case by
the fact that in the next volume of reports is a decision,
reached not without discussion and with but a single dissent, that "a suit arises under the law that creates the
.cause of action." That was the ratio decidendi of American
Well Works Co. v. Layne & Bowler Co., 24i U. S. 257, 260.
I know of no decisions to the contrary and see no reason
for overruling it now.
In
view of our opinion that this Court has no jurisdiction we
express no judgment on the merits.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS concurs in -this dissent.

