BODKIN v. EDWARDS.
219.

Statement of the Case.

States v. Jahn, 155 U. S. 109, 114. In that case, after an
extended review of the statute, it was said: "If the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court [now District Court] is in
issue and decided in favor of the defendant, as that disposes of the case, the plaintiff should have the question
certified and take his appeal or writ of error directly to
this court."
As therefore the decree in the District Court was not
open to review by the Circuit Court of Appeals, we must
vacate the latter's decision and cemand the case to it with
a direction to dismiss the appeai. See Union & Planters'
Bank v. Memphis, 189 U. S. 71, 73-74; CarolinaGlass Co..
v. South Carolina,240 U. S. 305, 318.
Decree of Circuit Court of Appeals vacated with direction
to dismiss appeal from District Court.

BODKIN v. EDWARDS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 495. Motion to dismiss or affirm submitted December 6, 1920.Decided February 28, 1921.
1. The court accepts the concurrent findings of the District Court
and. Circuit Court of Appeals upon the facts in an equity case, unless clear error is shown. P. 223.
2. Where the facts determine the decision, and where tie record exhibits no clear error in the concurrent findings and the appellant
has not brought up all the evidence, a decree may be affirmed on
motion to avoid the harmful and useless delay, of retaining the case
-for oral argument. Id.
265 Fed. Rep. 621, affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals

222

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opion of the Court.

255 U. S.

which affirmed a decree of the District Court holding
Bodkin trustee for Edwards as to certain patented land.
The case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Samuel Her'rick, for appellee, in support of the
motion. Mr. Henry M. Willis was also on the brief.
No brief filed for appellant.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the court.
*This is a suit by Edwards to have Bodkin declared a
trustee for him of the title to a quarter section of land in
California. While the land was public and subject to
entry under the homestead law, Edwards, a qualified
applicant, made a homestead entry of it and afterwards
submitted final proofs in due course. Bodkin instituted
a contest against the entry and obtained its cancellation
by the land department. The land officers then permitted
Bodkin to make a homestead entry of the tract, afterwards allowed him to relinquish that entry and make
others of the same tract under soldiers' additional rights
of which he was the assignee, and finally patented the
tract to him. During -llthese proceedings Edwards
actively asserted- the validity _of his claim and sought to
interpose it as an obstacle to passing -the -title to Bodkin.
This suit was brought shortly after the patents issued.
Aiparently Edwards himself drafted the bill. The District Court dismissed it without leave to amend and he
appealed. The Circuit Court of Appeals, while recognizing that the bill was somewhat inartificial, held that it
contained allegations which, if true, disclosed a right to
the relief sought. The decree of dismissal was accordingly
reversed. 249 Fed. Rep. 562. When the case got back
to the District Court the form of the bill was helped by
amendments, but the substance remained substantially

BODKIN v. EDWARDS.
221.

Opinion of the Court.

as before. Bodkin answered and the issues were tried.
The court found that the material allegations of the bill
were true; that in the proceedings before the land department matters presented by Edwards which should have
been considered were not considered, and that in consequence the title was passed to Bodkin when it should have
gone to Edwards. A decree for the latter followed and
Bodkin appealed. The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed
this decree, and in the course of its opinion said: "A
-careful review of the testimony assures us that all material allegations of the bill of complaint have been substantiated." 265 Fed. Rep. 621. Bodkin then took a further appeal to this court, the decision of the Circuit Court
of Appeals not being final under ยง 128 of the Judicial Code.
The appellee, Edwards, now moves that the appeal be
dismissed, or in the alternative that the decree be affirraed,
under Rule 6, 222. U. S., Appendix, p. 10. The appellant,
Bodkin, although served with the motion and supporting
brief, has not presented any brief in opposition.
The motion to dismiss must be denied and the one to
affirm sustained. The case as presented here turns essentially on questions of fact. Both courts below on a review
of the evidence have found the facts in the same way.
This court, under a settled rule, accepts such concurring
findings unless clear error is shown. Page v. Rogers, 211
U. S. 575, 577; Washington Securities Co. v. United.States,
234 U. S. 76, 78; Wright-Blodgett Co. v. United States, 236
U. S.397, 402; NationalBank of Athens v. Shackelford, 239
U. S. 81. No such error is shown by the record before us.
Besides, it does not contain all the evidence that was
before the courts below, a part having been omitted under
the appellant's specification of what should be included.
In these circumstances, to retain the case for oral argument in regular course would result in harmful delay and
serve no useful purpose.
Decree affirmed.

