OCTOBER TERM, 1981
Syllabus

458 U. S.

RAMAH NAVAJO SCHOOL BOARD, INC., ET AL. V.
BUREAU OF REVENUE OF NEW MEXICO
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF NEW MEXICO
No. 80-2162. Argued April 28, 1982-Decided July 2, 1982
Held: Federal law pre-empts New Mexico's tax imposed on the gross receipts that appellant non-Indian construction company received from appellant triba school board for the construction of a school for Indian children on the reservation. White Mountain Apache Tribe v. Bracker, 448
U. S. 136, controlling. Pp. 836-847.
(a) In view of the federal and tribal interests arising from Congress'
broad power to regulate tribal affairs under the Indian Commerce
Clause, Art. I, § 8, cl. 3, and from the semi-autonomous status of Indian
tribes, the exercise of state authority over commercial activity on an Indian reservation may be pre-empted by federal law, or it may interfere
with the tribe's ability to exercise its sovereign functions. Traditional
notions of tribal sovereignty, and the recognition and encouragement of
such sovereignty in congressional Acts promoting tribal independence
and economic development, inform the pre-emption analysis. Ambiguities in federal law should be construed generously, and federal preemption is not limited to those situations where Congress has explicitly
announced an intention to pre-empt state activity. Pp. 837-839.
(b) Federal statutes (particularly the Indian Self-Determination and
Education Assistance Act) reflect the federal policy of encouraging the
development of Indian-controlled institutions on the reservation, and
under detailed regulations governing school construction the Bureau of
Indian Affairs has wide-ranging authority to monitor and review subcontracting agreements between the Indian organization, which is viewed as
the general contractor, and the non-Indian firm that actually constructs
the facilities. The direction and supervision provided by the comprehensive federal regulatory scheme for the construction of Indian schools
leave no room for the additional burden sought to be imposed by New
Mexico. There is no merit to the contention that the state tax is not
pre-empted merely because the federal statutes and regulations do not
specifically express the intention to pre-empt this exercise of state authority. The interest asserted by the State relating to its providing
services to the non-Indian contractor for its activities off the reservation
is not a legitimate justification for a tax whose ultimate burden falls
on the tribal organization. Nor is the State's purpose in imposing the
tax pursuant to a general desire to increase revenues sufficient to justify
the additional burdens thereby imposed on the comprehensive federal

RAMAH NAVAJO SCHOOL BD. v. BUREAU OF REVENUE 833
832

Syllabus

scheme regulating the creation and maintenance of educational opportunities for Indian children and on the express federal policy of encouraging Indian self-sufficiency in the area of education. Pp. 839-845.
(c) Pre-emption analysis in this area need not be modified by applying
a new approach relying on the Indian Commerce Clause. Existing preemption analysis governing this type of case provides sufficient guidance
to state courts and also allows for more flexible consideration of the federal, state, and tribal interests at issue. Pp. 845-846.
95 N. M. 708, 625 P. 2d 1225, reversed and remanded.
MARSHALL, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which BURGER,
C. J., and BRENNAN, BLACKMUN, POWELL, and O'CONNOR, JJ., joined.
REHNQUIST, J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which WHITE and STEVENS,
JJ., joined, post, p. 847.

Michael P. Gross argued the cause for appellants. With
him on the briefs were Carl Bryant Rogers and Neal A.
Jackson.
Deputy Solicitor General Claiborne argued the cause for
the United States as amicus curiae urging reversal. With
him on the brief were SolicitorGeneral Lee, Assistant Attorney General Dinkins, Elinor Hadley Stillman, Edward J.
Shawaker, and MariaA. Iizuka.
Jan Unna, Special Assistant Attorney General of New
Mexico, argued the cause for appellee. With him on the
brief were Jeff Bingaman, Attorney General, and Gerald B.
Richardson, Assistant Attorney General.*
*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were fied by George P. Vlassis
and Katherine Ott for the Navajo Tribe of Indians; and by Richard W.
Hughes for the Pueblo of Santa Ana.
Helena S. Maclay and Deirdre Boggs, Special Assistant Attorneys
General of Montana, Leland T. Johnson, Assistant Attorney General of
Washington, Warren Spannaus, Attorney General of Minnesota, Mark V.
Meierhenry, Attorney General of South Dakota, and Richard H. Bryan,
Attorney General of Nevada, filed a brief for the State of Montana et al. as
amici curiae urging affirmance.
Briefs of amici curiae were filed by George Deukmejian, Attorney General, and Neal J. Gobar, Deputy Attorney General, for the State of California; and by Arthur Lazarus, Jr., for the Association of American Indian
Affairs, Inc.

OCTOBER TERM, 1981
Opinion of the Court
JUSTICE MARSHALL

458 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the Court.

In this case, we address the question whether federal law
pre-empts a state tax imposed on the gross receipts that a
non-Indian construction company receives from a tribal
school board for the construction of a school for Indian children on the reservation. The New Mexico Court of Appeals
held that the gross receipts tax imposed by the State of New
Mexico was permissible. Because the decision below is inconsistent with White Mountain Apache Tribe v. Bracker,
448 U. S. 136 (1980) (White Mountain), we reverse.

I
Approximately 2,000 members of the Ramah Navajo Chapter of the Navajo Indian Tribe live on tribal trust and allotment lands located in west central New Mexico. Ramah
Navajo children attended a small public high school near the
reservation until the State closed this facility in 1968. Because there were no other public high schools reasonably
close to the reservation, the Ramah Navajo children were
forced either to abandon their high school education or to attend federal Indian boarding schools far from the reservation. In 1970, the Ramah Navajo Chapter exercised its authority under Navajo Tribal Code, Title 10, § 51 (1969), and
established its own school board in order to remedy this situation. Appellant Ramah Navajo School Board, Inc. (the
Board), was organized as a nonprofit corporation to be operated exclusively by members of the Ramah Navajo Chapter.
The Board is a Navajo "tribal organization" within the meaning of 25 U. S. C. § 450b(c), 88 Stat. 2204. With funds provided by the federal Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) and the
Navajo Indian Tribe, the Board operated a school in the
abandoned public school facility, thus creating the first independent Indian school in modern times.'
' On July 8, 1970, in his Message to the Congress on Indian Affairs, President Nixon referred specifically to these efforts of the Board to assume
responsibility for the education of tribal children abandoned by the

RAMAH NAVAJO SCHOOL BD. v. BUREAU OF REVENUE 835
832

Opinion of the Court

In 1972, the Board successfully solicited from Congress
funds for the design of new school facilities. Pub. L. 92-369,
86 Stat. 510. The Board then contracted with the BIA for
the design of the new school and hired an architect. In 1974,
the Board contracted with the BIA for the actual construction of the new school to be built on reservation land. Funding for the construction of this facility was provided by a series of congressional appropriations specifically earmarked
for this purpose.2 The contract specified that the Board was
the design and building contractor for the project, but that
the Board could subcontract the actual construction work to
third parties. The contract further provided that any subcontracting agreement would have to include certain clauses
governing pricing, wages, bonding, and the like, and that it
must be approved by the BIA.
The Board then solicited bids from area building contractors for the construction of the school, and received bids from
two non-Indian firms. Each firm included the state gross receipts tax as a cost of construction in their bids, although the
tax was not itemized separately. Appellant Lembke Construction Co. (Lembke) was the low bidder and was awarded
the contract. The contract between the Board and Lembke
provides that Lembke is to pay all "taxes required by law."
Lembke began construction of the school facilities in 1974 and
continued this work for over five years. During that time,
Lembke paid the gross receipts tax and, pursuant to standard industry practice, was reimbursed by the Board for the
full amount paid. Before the second contract between
Lembke and the Board was executed in 1977, a clause was
inserted into the contract recognizing that the Board could
State as a "notable exampl[e]" of Indian self-determination. 6 Weekly
Comp. of Pres. Doc. 894, 899 (1970).
'See Pub. L. 93-245, 87 Stat. 1073 (1973) (amending Pub. L. 93-120, 87
Stat. 431 (1973) to specifically earmark funds appropriated there for the
construction of the Ramah school facility); Pub. L. 93-404, 88 Stat. 810
(1974); Pub. L. 94-165, 89 Stat. 985 (1975); Pub. L. 95-74, 91 Stat. 293
(1977).

OCTOBER TERM, 1981
Opinion of the Court

458 U. S.

litigate the validity of this tax and was entitled to any refund.
Both Lembke and the Board protested the imposition of
the gross receipts tax. In 1978, after exhausting administrative remedies, they filed this refund action against appellee New Mexico Bureau of Revenue in the New Mexico District Court. At the time of trial, the parties stipulated that
the Board had reimbursed Lembke for tax payments of
$232,264.38 and that the Board would receive any refund that
might be awarded.
The trial court entered judgment for the State Bureau of
Revenue. After noting that the "legal incidence" of the tax
fell on the non-Indian construction firm, the court rejected
appellants' arguments that the tax was pre-empted by comprehensive federal regulation and that it imposed an impermissible burden on tribal sovereignty. The Court of Appeals
for the State of New Mexico affirmed. 95 N. M. 708, 625
P. 2d 1225 (1980). Although acknowledging that the economic burden of the tax fell on the Board, the Court of Appeals concluded that the tax was not preempted by federal
law and that it did not unlawfully burden tribal sovereignty.
The Board filed a petition for rehearing in light of this Court's
intervening decisions in White Mountain, supra, and Central
Machinery Co. v. Arizona State Tax Comm'n, 448 U. S. 160
(1980). The Court of Appeals denied the petition, stating
only that this case did not involve either "a comprehensive or
pervasive scheme of federal regulation" or "federal regulation similar to the Indian trader statutes." App. to Juris.
Statement 36. After initially granting discretionary review,
the New Mexico Supreme Court quashed the writ as improvidently granted. 96 N. M. 17, 627 P. 2d 412 (1981). We
noted probable jurisdiction. 454 U. S. 1079 (1981).
II
In recent years, this Court has often confronted the difficult problem of reconciling "the plenary power of the
States over residents within their borders with the semi-

RAMAH NAVAJO SCHOOL BD. v. BUREAU OF REVENUE
832

837

Opinion of the Court

autonomous status of Indians living on tribal reservations."
McClanahan v. Arizona State Tax Comm'n, 411 U. S. 164,
165 (1973). Although there is no definitive formula for resolving the question whether a State may exercise its authority over tribal members or reservation activities, we have
recently identified the relevant federal, tribal, and state interests to be considered in determining whether a particular
exercise of state authority violates federal law. See White
Mountain, 448 U. S., at 141-145.
A
In White Mountain, we recognized that the federal and
tribal interests arise from the broad power of Congress to
regulate tribal affairs under the Indian Commerce Clause,
Art. I, § 8, cl. 3, and from the semi-autonomous status of Indian tribes. 448 U. S., at 142. These interests tend to
erect two "independent but related" barriers to the exercise
of state authority over commercial activity on an Indian reservation: state authority may be pre-empted by federal law,
or it may interfere with the tribe's ability to exercise its sovereign functions. Ibid. (citing, inter alia, Warren Trading
Post Co. v. Arizona Tax Comm'n, 380 U. S. 685 (1965);
McClanahanv. Arizona State Tax Comm'n, supra;and Williams v. Lee, 358 U. S. 217 (1959)). As we explained in
White Mountain:
"The two barriers are independent because either,
standing alone, can be a sufficient basis for holding state
law inapplicable to activity undertaken on the reservation or by tribal members. They are related, however,
in two important ways. The right of tribal self-government is ultimately dependent on and subject to the broad
power of Congress. Even so, traditional notions of Indian self-government are so deeply engrained in our jurisprudence that they have provided an important 'backdrop,' . . . against which vague or ambiguous federal
enactments must always be measured." 448 U. S., at

OCTOBER TERM, 1981

Opinion of the Court

458 U. S.

143 (quoting McClanahanv. Arizona State Tax Comm'n,
supra, at 172).
The State's interest in exercising its regulatory authority
over the activity in question must be examined and given appropriate weight. Pre-emption analysis in this area is not
controlled by "mechanical or absolute conceptions of state or
tribal sovereignty"; it requires a particularized examination
of the relevant state, federal, and tribal interests. 448
U. S., at 145. The question whether federal law, which reflects the related federal and tribal interests, pre-empts the
State's exercise of its regulatory authority is not controlled
by standards of pre-emption developed in other areas. Id.,
at 143-144. Instead, the traditional notions of tribal sovereignty, and the recognition and encouragement of this sovereignty in congressional Acts promoting tribal independence
and economic development, inform the pre-emption analysis
that governs this inquiry. See id., at 143, and n. 10. Relevant federal statutes and treaties must be examined in light
of "the broad policies that underlie them and the notions of
sovereignty that have developed from historical traditions of
tribal independence." Id., at 144-145. As a result, ambiguities in federal law should be construed generously, and federal pre-emption is not limited to those situations where Congress has explicitly announced an intention to pre-empt state
activity. Id., at 143-144, 150-151.
In White Mountain, we applied these principles and held
that federal law pre-empted application of the state motor
carrier license and use fuel taxes to a non-Indian logging
company's activity on tribal land. We found the federal
regulatory scheme for harvesting Indian timber to be so pervasive that it precluded the imposition of additional burdens
by the relevant state taxes. Id., at 148. The Secretary of
the Interior (Secretary) had promulgated detailed regulations for developing "'Indian forests by the Indian people
for the purpose of promoting self-sustaining communities."'
Id., at 147 (quoting 25 CFR § 141.3(a)(3) (1979)).

RAMAH NAVAJO SCHOOL BD. v. BUREAU OF REVENUE 839
832

Opinion of the Court

Under these regulations, the BIA was involved in virtually
every aspect of the production and marketing of Indian timber. 448 U. S., at 145-148. In particular, the Secretary
and the BIA extensively regulated the contractual relationship between the Indians and the non-Indians working on the
reservation: they established the bidding procedure, set mandatory terms to be included in every contract, and required
that all contracts be approved by the Secretary. Id., at 147.
We found that the state taxes in question would "threaten
the overriding federal objective of guaranteeing Indians that
they will 'receive ... the benefit of whatever profit [the forest] is capable of yielding .. ."' Id., at 149 (quoting 25 CFR

§ 141.3(a)(3) (1979)). We concluded that the imposition of
state taxes would also undermine the Secretary's ability to
carry out his obligations to set fees and rates for the harvesting and sale of the timber, and it would impede the "Tribe's
ability to comply with the sustained-yield management policies imposed by federal law." 448 U. S., at 149-150. Balanced against this intrusion into the federal scheme, the
State asserted only "a general desire to raise revenue" as its
justification for imposing the taxes. Id., at 150. In this
context, this interest is insufficient to justify the State's intrusion into a sphere so heavily regulated by the Federal
Government. Ibid.
B
This case is indistinguishable in all relevant respects from
White Mountain. Federal regulation of the construction and
financing of Indian educational institutions is both comprehensive and pervasive. The Federal Government's concern
with the education of Indian children can be traced back to
the first treaties between the United States and the Navajo
Tribe.' Since that time, Congress has enacted numerous
IArticle VI of the 1868 Treaty between the United States and the Navajo Tribe, 15 Stat. 669, provides that "[i]n order to insure the civiliza-

OCTOBER TERM, 1981
Opinion of the Court

458 U. S.

statutes empowering the BIA to provide for Indian education
both on and off the reservation. See, e. g., Snyder Act, 42
Stat. 208 (1921), 25 U. S. C. § 13; Johnson-O'Malley Act, 48
Stat. 596 (1934), 25 U. S. C. §452 et seq.; Navajo-Hopi Rehabilitation Act, 64 Stat. 44 (1950), 25 U. S. C. § 631 et seq.;
Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act, 88
Stat. 2203 (1975), 25 U. S. C. §450 et seq. (Self-Determination Act). Although the early focus of the federal efforts in
this area concentrated on providing federal or state educational facilities for Indian children, in the early 1970's the
federal policy shifted toward encouraging the development
of Indian-controlled institutions on the reservation. See 6
Weekly Comp. of Pres. Doc. 894, 899-900 (1970) (Message of
President Nixon).
This federal policy has been codified in the Indian Financing Act of 1974, 88 Stat. 77, 25 U. S. C. § 1451 et seq., and
most notably in the Self-Determination Act. The SelfDetermination Act declares that a "major national goal of the
United States is to provide the quantity and quality of educational services and opportunities which will permit Indian
children to compete and excel in the life areas of their choice,
and to achieve the measure of self-determination essential to
their social and economic well-being." 88 Stat. 2203, as set
forth in 25 U. S. C. §450a(c). In achieving this goal, Congress expressly recognized that "parental and community
control of the educational process is of crucial importance to
the Indian people." 88 Stat. 2203, as set forth in 25 U. S. C.
§450(b)(3).
Section 450k empowers the Secretary to promulgate regulations to accomplish the purposes of the Act. 88 Stat. 2212,
25 U. S. C. §450k. Pursuant to this authority, the Secretary has promulgated detailed and comprehensive regulations respecting "school construction for previously private
tion of the Indians entering into this treaty, the necessity of education is
admitted."

RAMAH NAVAJO SCHOOL BD. v. BUREAU OF REVENUE 841
832

Opinion of the Court

schools now controlled and operated by tribes or tribally
approved Indian organizations." 25 CFR §274.1 (1981).
Under these regulations, the BIA has wide-ranging authority to monitor and review the subcontracting agreements
between the Indian organization, which is viewed as the
general contractor, and the non-Indian firm that actually constructs the facilities. See 25 CFR §274.2 (1981). 4 Specifically, the BIA must conduct preliminary on-site inspections,
and prepare cost estimates for the project in cooperation with
the tribal organization. 25 CFR § 274.22 (1981). The Board
must approve any architectural or engineering agreements
executed in connection with the project. 25 CFR § 274.32(c)
(1981). In addition, the regulations empower the BIA to
require that all subcontracting agreements contain certain
terms, ranging from clauses relating to bonding and pay
scales, 41 CFR § 14H-70.632 (1981), to preferential treatment for Indian workers. 25 CFR § 274.38 (1981). Finally,
to ensure that the Tribe is fulfilling its statutory obligations,
the regulations require the tribal organization to maintain
records for the Secretary's inspection. 25 CFR § 274.41
(1981).
This detailed regulatory scheme governing the construction of autonomous Indian educational facilities is at least as
comprehensive as the federal scheme found to be pre-emptive
in White Mountain.5 The direction and supervision pro-

'Although these regulations did not become effective until several
months after the BIA and the Board had executed the initial contracts, the
Secretary and the BIA had applied similar requirements under the authority of the Johnson-O'Malley Act, 48 Stat. 596, 25 U. S. C. §452 et seq. In
any event, the two subsequent agreements between the BIA, the Board
and Lembke, accounting for two-thirds of the total construction, were
signed after the effective date of these regulations, which clearly authorize
the BIA to monitor these construction agreements.
'JUSTICE REHNQUIST asserts that the comprehensive federal regulatory
scheme outlined above "do[es] not regulate school construction, which
is the activity taxed." Post, at 851. The dissent fails to explain, however, how this fact distinguishes this case from White Mountain. In that

OCTOBER TERM, 1981
Opinion of the Court

458 U. S.

vided by the Federal Government for the construction of Indian schools leave no room for the additional burden sought
to be imposed by the State through its taxation of the gross
receipts paid to Lembke by the Board. This burden, although nominally falling on the non-Indian contractor, necessarily impedes the clearly expressed federal interest in
promoting the "quality and quantity" of educational opportunities for Indians by depleting the funds available for the construction of Indian schools.'
case, we struck down Arizona's use fuel tax and motor carrier license tax,
not because of any federal interest in gasoline, licenses, or highways, but
because the imposition of these state taxes on a non-Indian contractor doing work on the reservation was pre-empted by the "comprehensive regulation of the harvesting and sale of tribal timber." 448 U. S., at 151. We
find that New Mexico is similarly precluded from impeding the federal interest in the construction of autonomous Indian educational institutions by
imposing its gross receipts tax on Lembke. JUSTICE REHNQUIST's contention that the New Mexico tax is somehow compatible with this federal
interest because such taxes "are as much a normal cost of school construction as the cost of cement and labor," post, at 855, is also foreclosed by
White Mountain. Surely, state use fuel and motor carrier license taxes
are considered part of the cost of harvesting and marketing timber. Yet
in White Mountain, we concluded that these taxes impeded the federal interest in "guaranteeing Indians that they will 'receive ...

the benefit of

whatever profit [the forest] is capable of yielding,"' 448 U. S., at 149, despite the dissent's argument that the taxes amounted to less than 1% of the
annual profits produced by the logging operation. Here, as in White
Mountain, JUSTICE REHNQUIST continues to press this argument.
'Appellee would have us impute congressional awareness and approval
of the state gross receipts tax from appropriations bills which earmarked
funds for the construction of these facilities, see n. 2, supra. Brief for
Appellee 21-22. Appellee strains to find this awareness and approval by
arguing that the same architects who prepared the cost estimates
and requests that the Board submitted to Congress also prepared the bid
specifications pursuant to which Lembke submitted its bid. However, as
we have indicated, the bid specifications only required prospective bidders
to include "all taxes required by law," and the submitted bids did not specify the gross receipts tax as a separate line item. Supra, at 835. Therefore, it is by no means clear, and the Board disputes the contention, that
the Board ever intended to have these state taxes included in the construction costs of its school facilities. Furthermore, there is absolutely no

RAMAH NAVAJO SCHOOL BD. v. BUREAU OF REVENUE
832

843

Opinion of the Court

The Bureau of Revenue argues that imposition of the state
tax is not pre-empted because the federal statutes and regulations do not specifically express the intention to pre-empt
this exercise of state authority. This argument is clearly
foreclosed by our precedents. In White Mountain we flatly
rejected a similar argument. 448 U. S., at 150-151 (citing
Warren Trading Post Co. v. Arizona Tax Comm'n, 380
U. S. 685 (1965); Williams v. Lee, 358 U. S. 217 (1959); and
Kennerly v. District Court of Montana, 400 U. S. 423
(1971)). There is nothing unique in the nature of a gross receipts tax or in the federal laws governing the development
of tribal self-sufficiency in the area of education that requires
a different analysis.
In this case, the State does not seek to assess its tax in return for the governmental functions it provides to those who
must bear the burden of paying this tax. Having declined to
take any responsibility for the education of these Indian children, the State is precluded from imposing an additional burden on the comprehensive federal scheme intended to provide
this education-a scheme which has "left the State with no
duties or responsibilities." Warren Trading Post Co. v. Arizona Tax Comm'n, supra, at 691.1 Nor has the State asserted any specific, legitimate regulatory interest to justify
the imposition of its gross receipts tax. The only arguably
indication that Congress was even made aware of the existence of these
taxes when it appropriated funds for the construction of the Ramah Navajo
school. In any event, as we have noted in a related context, courts should
be wary of inferring congressional intent to alter the force of existing law
from an appropriations Act. Cf. TVA v. Hill, 437 U. S. 153, 189-191 (1978).
1Of course, these statutes and regulations do not prevent the States
from providing for the education of Indian children within their boundaries. Indeed, the Self-Determination Act specifically authorizes the Secretary to enter into contracts with any State willing to construct educational institutions for Indian children on or near the reservation. 88 Stat.
2214, 25 U. S. C. § 458. This case would be different if the State were
actively seeking tax revenues for the purpose of constructing, or assisting
in the effort to provide, adequate educational facilities for Ramah Navajo
children.

OCTOBER TERM, 1981
Opinion of the Court

458 U. S.

specific interest advanced by the State is that it provides
services to Lembke for its activities off the reservation. This
interest, however, is not a legitimate justification for a tax
whose ultimate burden falls on the tribal organization.8 Furthermore, although the State may confer substantial benefits
on Lembke as a state contractor, we fail to see how these
benefits can justify a tax imposed on the construction of
school facilities on tribal lands pursuant to a contract between the tribal organization and the non-Indian contracting
firm.' The New Mexico gross receipts tax is intended to
compensate the State for granting "the privilege of engaging
in business." N. M. Stat. Ann. §§ 7-9-3(F) and 7-9-4(A)
(1980). New Mexico has not explained the source of its
power to levy such a tax in this case where the "privilege of
doing business" on an Indian reservation is exclusively bestowed by the Federal Government.
'The Bureau of Revenue invites us to adopt the "legal incidence" test,
under which the legal incidence and not the actual burden of the tax would
control the pre-emption inquiry. Of course, in some contexts, the fact that
the legal incidence of the tax falls on a non-Indian is significant. See
Washington v. Confederated Tribes of Colville Indian Reservation, 447
U. S. 134, 150-151 (1980); Moe v. Salish & Kootenai Tribes, 425 U. S. 463
(1976). However, in White Mountain, 448 U. S., at 151, we found it significant that the economic burden of the asserted taxes would ultimately
fall on the Tribe, even though the legal incidence of the tax was on the nonIndian logging company. Given the comprehensive federal regulatory
scheme at issue here, we decline to allow the State to impose additional
burdens on the significant federal interest in fostering Indian-run educational institutions, even if those burdens are imposed indirectly through a

tax on a non-Indian contractor for work done on the reservation.
"In Central Machinery Co. v. Arizona State Tax Comm'n, 448 U. S. 160
(1980), we held that the Indian trader statutes, 19 Stat. 200, 25 U. S. C.
§ 261 et seq., pre-empted the State's jurisdiction to tax the sale of farm
machinery to the Indian Tribe, notwithstanding the substantial services
that the State undoubtedly provided to the off-reservation activities of
the non-Indian seller. Presumably, the state tax revenues derived from
Lembke's off-reservation business activities are adequate to reimburse the
State for the services it provides to Lembke.

RAMAH NAVAJO SCHOOL BD. v. BUREAU OF REVENUE 845
832

Opinion of the Court

The State's ultimate justification for imposing this tax
amounts to nothing more than a general desire to increase
revenues. This purpose, as we held in White Mountain, 448
U. S., at 150, is insufficient to justify the additional burdens
imposed by the tax on the comprehensive federal scheme
regulating the creation and maintenance of educational
opportunities for Indian children and on the express federal
policy of encouraging Indian self-sufficiency in the area of
education."1 This regulatory scheme precludes any state tax
that "stands as an obstacle to the accomplishment of the full
purposes and objectives of Congress." Hines v. Davidowitz,
312 U. S. 52, 67 (1941).
C
The Solicitor General, in an amicus brief filed on behalf of
the United States, suggests that we modify our pre-emption
analysis and rely on the dormant Indian Commerce Clause,
Art. I, § 8, cl. 3, to hold that on-reservation activities involving a resident tribe are presumptively beyond the reach of
state law even in the absence of comprehensive federal regulation, thus placing the burden on the State to demonstrate
that its intrusion is either condoned by Congress or justified
by a compelling need to protect legitimate, specified state interests other than the generalized desire to collect revenue.
He argues that adopting this approach is preferable for several reasons: it would provide guidance to the state courts addressing these issues, thus reducing the need for our case-bycase review of these decisions; it would avoid the tension
"0We are similarly unpersuaded by the State's argument that the significant services it provides to the Ramah Navajo Indians justify the imposition of this tax. The State does not suggest that these benefits are in any
way related to the construction of schools on Indian land. Furthermore,
the evidence introduced below by the State on this issue is far from clear.
Although the State does provide services to the Ramah Navajo Indians, it
receives federal funds for providing some of these services, and the State
conceded at trial that it saves approximately $380,000 by not having to provide education for the Ramah Navajo children. App. 95, 105-106, 108.

OCTOBER TERM, 1981
Opinion of the Court

458 U. S.

created by focusing on the pervasiveness of federal regulation as a principal barrier to state assertions of authority
when the primary federal goal is to encourage tribal selfdetermination and self-government; and it would place a
higher burden on the State to articulate clearly its particularized interests in taxing the transaction and to demonstrate
the services it provides in assisting the taxed transaction.
We do not believe it necessary to adopt this new approach-the existing pre-emption analysis governing these
cases is sufficiently sensitive to many of the concerns expressed by the Solicitor General. Although clearer rules and
presumptions promote the interest in simplifying litigation,
our precedents announcing the scope of pre-emption analysis
in this area provide sufficient guidance to state courts and
also allow for more flexible consideration of the federal,
state, and tribal interests at issue. We have consistently admonished that federal statutes and regulations relating to
tribes and tribal activities must be "construed generously in
order to comport with ... traditional notions of [Indian] sovereignty and with the federal policy of encouraging tribal
independence." White Mountain, supra, at 144; see also
McClanahan v. Arizona State Tax Comm'n, 411 U. S., at
174-175, and n. 13; Warren Trading Post Co. v. Arizona Tax
Comm'n, 380 U. S., at 690-691. This guiding principle helps
relieve the tension between emphasizing the pervasiveness of
federal regulation and the federal policy of encouraging Indian self-determination. Although we must admit our disappointment that the courts below apparently gave short shrift
to this principle and to our precedents in this area, we cannot
and do not presume that state courts will not follow both the
letter and the spirit of our decisions in the future.
III
In sum, the comprehensive federal regulatory scheme and
the express federal policy of encouraging tribal self-sufficiency in the area of education preclude the imposition of the

RAMAH NAVAJO SCHOOL BD. v. BUREAU OF REVENUE
832

847

REHNQUIST, J., dissenting

state gross receipts tax in this case. Accordingly, the judgment of the New Mexico Court of Appeals is reversed, and
the case is remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent
with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
JUSTICE REHNQUIST,

with whom JUSTICE WHITE and Jus-

TICE STEVENS join, dissenting.
The Court today reproves the New Mexico Court of Appeals for failing to heed our precedents, much as a disappointed parent would rebuke a wayward child.' I do not
think the Court of Appeals deserves the rebuke; it seems to
me that the state court applied our precedents at least as
faithfully, and coherently, as the Court itself. In its desire
to reach a result that it evidently finds quite salutary as a
matter of policy, the Court finds "indistinguishable" a case
that is considerably off the mark, and it finds "pervasively
regulated" an activity that is largely free of federal regulation. It ultimately accords a dependent Indian tribal organization greater tax immunity than it accorded the sovereignty of the United States a short three months ago in a case
involving the precise state taxes at issue here.

I
The general question presented by this case has occupied
the Court many times in the recent past, and seems destined
to demand its attention over and over again until the Court
sees fit to articulate, and follow, a consistent and predictable
rule of law. This insistent question concerns the extent to
which the States can tax economic activity on Indian reservations within their borders. I believe the dominant trend of
I"Although we must admit our disappointment that the courts below apparently gave short shrift to this principle and to our precedents in this
area, we cannot and do not presume that state courts will not follow both
the letter and the spirit of our decisions in the future." Ante, at 846.

OCTOBER TERM, 1981
REHNQUIST,

J., dissenting

458 U. S.

our cases is toward treating the scope of reservation immunity from nondiscriminatory state taxation as a question of
pre-emption, ultimately dependent on congressional intent.
In such a framework, the tradition of Indian sovereignty
stands as an independent barrier to discriminatory taxes, and
otherwise serves only as a guide to the ascertainment of the
congressional will.
The principles announced in White Mountain Apache Tribe
v. Bracker, 448 U. S. 136 (1980), are consistent with this
trend.2 Thus, the Court in White Mountain recognized federal pre-emption as a principal barrier to the assertion of
state regulatory authority over tribal reservations and members, id., at 142, and specifically invalidated the challenged
assertion of taxing authority on that basis, id., at 148, 151,
n. 15. The Court also recognized that in some instances a
state law may be invalid because it infringes "'the right of
reservation Indians to make their own laws and be ruled by
them."' Id., at 142 (quoting Williams v. Lee, 358 U. S. 217,
220 (1959)). But apart from those rare instances in which
the State attempts to interfere with the residual sovereignty
of a tribe to govern its own members, the "tradition of tribal
sovereignty" merely provides a "backdrop" against which the
pre-emptive effect of federal statutes or treaties must be assessed. See 448 U. S., at 143.
The Court today pays homage to these principles but then
promptly bestows its favors on a new analytical framework in
which the extent of economic burden on the tribe, and not the
pre-emptive effect of federal regulations, appears to be the
paramount consideration. Such a shift is necessary, for the
'Nevertheless, the Solicitor General has again suggested that onreservation activities affecting resident tribes be considered presumptively beyond the reach of state law by operation of the "principle of
tribal sovereignty." See Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 17-24.
The same suggestion was urged, and rejected, in White Mountain. It has
proved no more appealing in this case.

RAMAH NAVAJO SCHOOL BD. v. BUREAU OF REVENUE 849
832

REHNQUIST, J., dissenting

Court's purported reliance on White Mountain will not withstand even superficial scrutiny.
II
The Court declares that "[t]his case is indistinguishable in
all relevant respects from White Mountain." Ante, at 839.
This statement is quite inaccurate. White Mountain involved an attempt by the State of Arizona to apply its motor
carrier license and use fuel taxes to the logging operations
of a non-Indian company doing business exclusively on the
reservation. The Court concluded that application of the
State's taxes was inconsistent with the pervasive federal
regulation of the very activity subject to taxation. The
Court repeatedly emphasized the comprehensiveness of the
regulations on which it relied.
"Under these regulations, the Bureau of Indian Affairs exercises literally daily supervision over the harvesting and management of tribal timber. In the
present case, contracts between [the tribal organization]
and [the non-Indian contractor] must be approved by the
Bureau; indeed, the record shows that some of those contracts were drafted by employees of the Federal Government. Bureau employees regulate the cutting, hauling,
and marking of timber by [the tribal organization and the
contractor]. The Bureau decides such matters as how
much timber will be cut, which trees will be felled, which
roads are to be used, which hauling equipment [the contractor] should employ, the speeds at which logging
equipment may travel, and the width, length, height,
and weight of loads.
"The Secretary has also promulgated detailed regulations governing the roads developed by the Bureau of InOn the Fort Apache Reservation the
dian Affairs ....
Forestry Department of the Bureau has required [the
tribal organization] and its contractors ... to repair and

OCTOBER TERM, 1981
REHNQUIST,

J., dissenting

458 U. S.

maintain existing Bureau and tribal roads and in some
cases to construct new logging roads. .. . A high percentage of [the contractor's] receipts are expended for
those purposes, and it has maintained separate personnel and equipment to carry out a variety of tasks relating
to road maintenance." 448 U. S., at 147-148.
But the Court in White Mountain did not merely review the
comprehensiveness of the regulations and conclude, ipso
facto, that state taxes on the logging operations were preempted. It found, with considerable attention to specifics,
that "the assessment of state taxes would obstruct federal
policies." Id., at 148.
"At the most general level, the taxes would threaten
the overriding federal objective of guaranteeing Indians that they will 'receive ... the benefit of whatever
profit [the forest] is capable of yielding. . . .' 25 CFR
§ 141.3(a)(3) (1979). Underlying the federal regulatory
program rests a policy of assuring that the profits derived from timber sales will inure to the benefit of the
Tribe subject only to administrative expenses incurred
by the Federal Government. ...
"In addition, the taxes would undermine the Secretary's ability to make the wide range of determinations
committed to his authority concerning the setting of fees
and rates with respect to the harvesting and sale of
tribal timber. The Secretary reviews and approves the
terms of the Tribe's agreements with its contractors,
sets fees for services rendered to the Tribe by the Federal Government, and determines stumpage rates for
timber to be paid to the Tribe. Most notably in reviewing or writing the terms of the contracts between [the
tribal organization] and its contractors, federal agents
must predict the amount and determine the proper allocation of all business expenses, including fuel costs.
The assessment of state taxes would throw additional

RAMAH NAVAJO SCHOOL BD. v. BUREAU OF REVENUE 851
832

REHNQUIST,

J., dissenting

factors into the federal calculus, reducing tribal revenues

and diminishing the profitability of the enterprise for potential contractors.
"Finally, the imposition of state taxes would adversely
affect the Tribe's ability to comply with the sustainedyield management policies imposed by federal law."
Id., at 149-150.
As noted, the Court thinks that this case is "indistinguishable in all relevant respects from White Mountain." Ante,
at 839. It finds that "[f]ederal regulation of the construction
and financing of Indian educational institutions is both comprehensive and pervasive." Ibid. But the regulations on
which the Court relies do not regulate school construction,
which is the activity taxed. They merely detail procedures
by which tribes may apply for federal funds in order to carry
out school construction.
The purpose of the regulations, which the Court quotes
only in part, ante, at 840-841, "is to give the applicationand
approvalprocessfor obtaining a contractor servicesfrom the
Bureau for school construction for previously private schools
now controlled and operated by tribes or tribally approved
Indian organizations .... " 25 CFR §274.1 (1981) (emphasis added). The regulations that follow explain the procedures by which tribes may obtain, complete, and file application forms for federal funding or services. §§ 274.12-274.18.
As the Court observes, ante, at 841, the regulations also authorize the BIA to approve or disapprove plans and specifications for construction as well as construction contracts let by
the tribe, which are treated as subcontracts of the funding
contract between the tribe and the BIA. The contracts are
required to contain a clause establishing a hiring preference
for Indians. §274.38. And the BIA is given access to the
tribe's records for auditing purposes. § 274.41. That is the
extent of the regulations.
In this case the BIA "contracted" with the School Board in
order to convey federal funds for the construction project.

OCTOBER TERM, 1981
REHNQUIST, J., dissenting

458 U. S.

It also approved the Board's construction "subcontract" with
the construction contractor. It played no role in the selection of the contractor and it played no role in regulating or
supervising the actual construction of the school. The Court
concludes that this scheme, which is little more than a grant
application process, "is at least as comprehensive as the federal scheme found to be pre-emptive in White Mountain."
Ante, at 841. I simply cannot agree.
More important, the Court concludes in the very next sentence that "[t]he direction and supervision provided by the
Federal Government for the construction of Indian schools
leaves no room for the additional burden sought to be imposed by the State through its taxation of the gross receipts
paid to Lembke by the Board." Ante, at 841-842. This
statement constitutes the sum total of the Court's preemption analysis in this case. In White Mountain the Court
engaged in a detailed examination of the extent to which
state taxes would interfere both with the Secretary's ability
to carry out his congressional mandate and with the tribe's
ability to carry out federal policy. In the place of such careful analysis, the Court today relies on ipse dixit. It does so
because there is no realistic basis for concluding that the
State's taxes would interfere with a "pervasive" regulatory
scheme. The BIA simply does not regulate the construction
activity which the State seeks to tax. It provides federal
money to eligible tribes and tribal organizations and it establishes a contract-approval and auditing mechanism as a
means of attempting to ensure that the money is put to the
use for which it is earmarked.'
'The Court ignores other distinctions between this case and White
Mountain. For example, the logging contractor in the latter case, although a non-Indian corporation, operated exclusively to harvest timber on
the reservation; it conducted no off-reservation activities whatsoever.
See 448 U. S., at 139. The contractor in this case is a general building
contractor doing business throughout the State of New Mexico, and enjoying state services to the same extent as any other commercial enterprise in

RAMAH NAVAJO SCHOOL BD. v. BUREAU OF REVENUE 853
832

REHNQUIST, J., dissenting

III
A careful reading of the Court's opinion demonstrates that
the single, determinative factor in its judgment is the fact
that the challenged state taxes have increased the financial
burden of constructing a tribal school. Whether the federal
regulations are detailed and comprehensive or largely a matter of bookkeeping is an irrelevancy, for the Court concludes
that the tax burden "impedes the clearly expressed federal
interest in promoting the 'quality and quantity' of educational
opportunities for Indians by depleting the funds availablefor
the construction of Indian schools." Ante, at 842 (emphasis
added). The Court recognizes that the legal incidence of the
tax is on the non-Indian contractor, but asserts that "in White
Mountain... we found it significant that the economic burden of the asserted taxes would ultimately fall on the Tribe,
New Mexico.

The Court dismisses this factor with the statement that

"[plresumably, the state tax revenues derived from Lembke's off-reservation business activities are adequate to reimburse the State for the services
it provides to Lembke." Ante, at 844, n. 9. The Court's "presumptions,"
however, are no substitute for the considered judgment of the state taxing
authority. Indeed, in assessing the validity of a state tax, the Court has
previously recognized that the State's interests are strongest when the
taxpayer is the recipient of state services. See Washington v. Confederated Tribes of Coltille Indian Reservation, 447 U. S. 134, 157 (1980). To
the extent presumptions are relevant, the Court has inverted the one that
ought to apply.
Another distinction is also relevant. The activity taxed in White Mountain was the exploitation of natural resources located on the reservation
and devoted to the beneficial use and enjoyment of reservation Indians.
Indeed, over 90% of the total profits generated by tribal enterprises were
derived from the Tribe's logging operations. 448 U. S., at 138. In this
case, the state taxes diminish, not the income generated by the Tribe for
its own preservation and welfare, but federal funds appropriated by Congress for the purpose of school construction. No tribal funds are devoted
to this endeavor, and congressional appropriations were based on funding
requests that included the gross receipts tax as part of the estimated construction cost.

OCTOBER TERM, 1981
REHNQUIST, J., dissenting

458 U. S.

even though the legal incidence of the tax was on the nonIndian logging company." Ante, at 844, n. 8.
The Court in White Mountain did indeed note that "the
economic burden of the asserted taxes will ultimately fall on
the Tribe." 448 U. S., at 151. But in a footnote immediately following that sentence, which is today ignored, the
Court declared:
"Of course, the fact that the economic burden of the
tax falls on the Tribe does not by itself mean that the tax
is pre-empted, as Moe v. Salish & Kootenai Tribes, 425
U. S. 463 (1976), makes clear. Our decision today is
based on the pre-emptive effect of the comprehensive
federal regulatory scheme, which ...leaves no room for

the additional burdens sought to be imposed by state
law." Id., at 151, n. 15.
Despite its references to the supposed "comprehensive and
pervasive" regulatory scheme in this case, the Court clearly
has chosen to bar the State from taxing Lembke's gross receipts principally because the tax imposes an indirect economic burden on the tribal organization. As the Court in
White Mountain recognized, our precedents undeniably view
that as an insufficient basis for the recognition of an Indian tax immunity. See Washington v. Confederated Tribes
of Colville Indian Reservation, 447 U. S. 134, 156 (1980)
("Washington does not infringe the right of reservation Indians to 'make their own laws and be ruled by them,' ...
merely because the result of imposing its taxes will be to deprive the Tribes of revenues which they currently are receiving"); Moe v. Salish & Kootenai Tribes, 425 U. S. 463,
481-482 (1976) (upholding tax on cigarette sales from Indians
to non-Indians because the legal incidence of the tax was on
the consumer); Mescalero Apache Tribe v. Jones, 411 U. S.
145, 156-157 (1973) (refusing to imply tax immunity despite
economic burden on tribal enterprise).4 Even under the

I In other areas of tax immunity, the Court has steadfastly refused to assess the validity of a tax by reference to the economic burdens it imposes if

RAMAH NAVAJO SCHOOL BD. v. BUREAU OF REVENUE
832

855

REHNQUIST, J., dissenting

modified form of pre-emption doctrine applicable to state
regulation of reservation activities, there must be some affirmative indication that Congress did not intend the State to
exercise the sovereign power challenged in the suit. Until
today, the mere fact that the asserted power will impose an
economic burden on a tribal endeavor has not provided that
affirmative indication.
I do not disagree with the Court's judgment that congressional enactments such as the Indian Financing Act and the
Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act embody a federal policy encouraging the development of Indiancontrolled educational institutions. But it is a considerable
leap to infer from that policy the independent principle that
all state laws which might increase the cost of such an endeavor are to be considered null and void. It is perfectly
conceivable that Congress favored Indian education, but also
contemplated that all costs of obtaining that end would be
paid in a normal fashion. State taxes are as much a normal
cost of school construction as the cost of cement and labor.
The cost of taxes was included in the bids submitted to the
Board by the construction contractors, and it apparently was
also included in the funding requests submitted by the Board
to Congress. The Board cannot be faulted for attempting to
stretch its federal construction funds as far as possible, but
that is a woefully inadequate basis for interfering with the
sovereign prerogatives of the State of New Mexico.
IV
A short three months ago, this Court considered whether
the State of New Mexico could impose its gross receipts and
those burdens are nondiscriminatory and comport with due process.
See United States v. New Mexico, 455 U. S. 720 (1982) (state taxation
of federal contractors); United States v. County of Fresno, 429 U. S. 452
(1977) (state taxation of Federal Government); New York v. United States,
326 U. S. 572 (1946) (federal taxation of state government); Michelin Tire
Corp. v. Wages, 423 U. S. 276 (1976) (state taxation of imports and
exports).

OCTOBER TERM, 1981
REHNQUIST, J., dissenting

458 U. S.

compensating use taxes on private contractors that conduct
business with the Federal Government. We concluded that
tax immunity was appropriate in only one circumstance:
"when the levy falls on the United States itself, or on an
agency or instrumentality so closely connected to the Government that the two cannot realistically be viewed as separate
entities, at least insofar as the activity being taxed is concerned." United States v. New Mexico, 455 U. S. 720, 735
(1982). In reaching this conclusion, we held that "immunity
may not be conferred simply because the tax has an effect on
the United States, or even because the Federal Government
shoulders the entire economic burden of the levy." Id., at
734. If the legal incidence of the tax is on the contractor, it
is to be considered valid, absent specific congressional action,
as long as "the contractors can realistically be considered entities independent of the United States." Id., at 738.'
In this case, as in United States v. New Mexico, the legal
incidence of the New Mexico tax is on the private contractor,
not on the entity whose status might be the source of a tax
immunity. And, as in United States v. New Mexico, it is evident that Lembke is a separate taxable entity completely independent of the tribal school board. Were the tax immunity of the Tribe no greater than that of the United States, it
seems plain that New Mexico's tax would have to be upheld
as applied to the gross receipts of the non-Indian contractor.
But the Court reaches a different conclusion because it finds
that the tax imposes an economic burden on the Tribe's effort
to build a school with federal funds. Thus, the Court accords
'We recognized one possible exception to this general rule: "In the case

of a sales tax ... it is arguable that an entity serving as a federal procurement agent can be so closely associated with the Government, and so lack
an independent role in the purchase, as to make the sale-in both a real and
a symbolic sense-a sale to the United States, even though the purchasing
agent has not otherwise been incorporated into the Government structure." 455 U. S., at 742. In this case, there is no basis for arguing that
Lembke has acted merely as a purchasing agent for the Board or the BIA.

RAMAH NAVAJO SCHOOL BD. v. BUREAU OF REVENUE 857
832

REHNQUIST, J., dissenting

an Indian Tribe, whose sovereignty "exists only at the sufferance of Congress and is subject to complete defeasance,"
United States v. Wheeler, 435 U. S. 313, 323 (1978), greater
immunity from state taxes than is enjoyed by the sovereignty
of the United States on whom it is dependent.'
For these reasons, I dissent from the Court's judgment.

'Of course, the Court purports to rest its decision on the pre-emptive
effect of federal law. But the immunity of federal contractors from state
taxes is also dependent on "generalized notions of federal supremacy."
United States v. New Mexico, supra, at 730. The critical question, both
in United States v. New Mexico and in this case, is what factors will the
Court examine to determine whether the State has exceeded limits imposed by the Supremacy Clause and by Congress. I think it is evident
that in the area of federal tax immunity the Court has required evidence of
more than mere economic burdens before it will invalidate a state tax as
applied. As this case demonstrates, tribal tax immunity may be invoked
on no greater showing than the fact of economic burdens on a federally supported tribal endeavor. Since both immunities derive from precisely the
same source-the supremacy of federal law-I find the Court's decision
today inexplicable. "With the abandonment of the notion that the economic-as opposed to the legal-incidence of the tax is relevant, it becomes
difficult to maintain that federal tax immunity is designed to insulate federal operations from the effects of state taxation." United States v. New
Mexico, supra, at 735, n. 11.

