OPINIONS OF INDIVIDUAL JUSTICES IN
CHAMBERS

WHITE v. FLORIDA
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY
No. A-130.

Decided August 13, 1982

An application to stay the judgment and mandate of the Florida Supreme
Court, pending filing and disposition of certiorari, is denied. The judgment upheld applicant's conviction for first-degree murder and his death
sentence. Although the application establishes that applicant may suffer irreparable harm in the future, there is no indication that the harm is
imminent. No execution date has been set, and the State does not contemplate that one will be set in the near future. The application also
does not specify the issues for which certiorari will be sought or the reasons why review is appropriate. Absent such a specification, it cannot
be determined whether there is a reasonable probability that four Members of the Court would find that this case merits review.
JUSTICE POWELL,

Circuit Justice.

William White has requested me as Circuit Justice to stay
the judgment and mandate of the Supreme Court of Florida
pending filing and disposition of his petition for a writ of certiorari. A state trial court convicted White of first-degree
murder and sentenced him to death. The Florida Supreme
Court upheld both the conviction and sentence. 415 So. 2d
719 (1982). It denied rehearing on July 8, 1982, and stayed
the mandate until August 9, 1982, requiring White to seek
any further stay from this Court.
In his application for a stay, filed by counsel, White states
that he intends to file a petition for a writ of certiorari because the judgment affirming his conviction and sentence is
"in violation of [the] rights secured by the Constitution of the
United States." His application does not suggest any more
specific basis for seeking the writ. The only reason ad-

OCTOBER TERM, 1981
Opinion in Chambers

458 U. S.

vanced by White for staying the mandate is that, absent a
stay, administrative proceedings culminating in the execution of his sentence will be instituted on August 9. The
State has responded, however, that the threat of execution is
not imminent. No execution date has been set, and the
State does not contemplate that one will be set in the near
future.
The standards for granting a stay of mandate pending disposition of a petition for certiorari are well established:
"[TIhere must be a reasonable probability that four
members of the Court would consider the underlying
issue sufficiently meritorious for the grant of certiorari
or the notation of probable jurisdiction; there must be a
significant possibility of reversal of the lower court's decision; and there must be a likelihood that irreparable
harm will result if that decision is not stayed." TimesPicayune PublishingCorp. v. Schulingkamp, 419 U. S.
1301, 1305 (1974) (POWELL, J., in chambers).
See Karcherv. Daggett, 455 U. S. 1303 (1982) (BRENNAN, J.,
in chambers); Whalen v. Roe, 423 U. S. 1313, 1316-1317
(1975) (MARSHALL, J., in chambers). Although White's
application establishes that he may suffer irreparable harm at
some point in the future, there is no indication that the harm
is imminent. Additionally, White's application does not
specify either the issues for which certiorari will be sought or
the reasons why review is appropriate. In the absence of
such information, I am unable to determine whether there is
a reasonable probability that four Members of the Court
would find that this case merits review. Because there is no
threat of imminent harm and no basis for determining
whether certiorari would be granted, the request for a stay is
denied.

