OCTOBER TERM, 1941.

- 584,

Syllabus.

316 U. S.

and difficult of proof for estimate other than by liquidated
damages. Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. Nichols, 264 U. S.
348,,351; James-Dickinson Co. v. Harry, 273 U.- S. 119.
Nor can it be said' that the exaction is violative of due
process. It is not a threat of criminal proceedings or prohibitive fines, such as have been held beyond legislative
power by the authorities cited by petitioner. Even double
:damages treated as penalties have been upheld as within
constitutional power.2 5
Affirmed.

The CHIEF JUSTICE concurs
RoBERTs dissents..

in the result. MR.JUSTICE

JONES v. OPELIKA.
.

NO.

280. CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ALABAMA.

BOWDEN ET AL. V. FORT SMITH.
NO. 3.14.

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF

ARKANSAS.

JOBIN v. ARIZONA.
jNO. 9 66. APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF ARIZONA.

.Argued (No. 280) February 5, 1942 and (Nos. 314 and 966) April 30,
1942.-Decided June 8, 1942.
1. A city ordinance which requires that licenses be procured and that
taxes reasonable in amount be paid, for the conduct of various
businesses within the municipality, including the business of selling
books and. pamphlets on the streets or from house to house, and
which is general and non-discriminatory in its incidences, does not
infringe the liberties of free. speech, free press or free exercise of
Cf:,Missourl Pacific Ry. Co. v. Humes, 115 U. S. 512; Minneapolis
& St. Louis.Ry. Co. v. Beckuith, 129 U. S. 26; Kansas City Southern
Ry. Co.v. Anderson, 233 U. S. 325..

JONES v. OPELIKA.
584

Opinion of the Court.

religion when applied to a member of a religious organization who
is engaged in selling the printed propaganda of his sect. Pp. 593, 598.
2. One who sells religious literature on city streets, without having

complied with provisions of an ordinance validly requiring that he
first apply for and obtain a license and pay a license tax, can not
-defend upon the ground that the ordinance is rendered unconstitutional as to him by a provision purporting to empower the licensing authority to revoke licenses without notice. Lovell v. Griffin,
304 U. S. 444, distinguished. P. 599.
7 So. 2d 503, affirmed.
202 Ark. 614, 151 S. W. 2d 1000, affirmed.
118 P. 2d 97, affirmed.

The first two of these cases were brought here by writs
of certiorari, 314 U. S. 593, 315 U. S. 793. The third
came up by appeal. In each case the review was of a
judgment affirming a conviction and fine for violation of a
city ordinance declaring it unlawful to sell books or pamphlets within the municipal limits without having obtained a license and paid a license tax.
Mr. Hayden C. Covington, with whom Mr. Joseph F.
Rutherford was ,on the brief' (Mr. Alfred A. Albert entered an appearance), for petitioner in No. 280. Messrs.
Osmond K. Fraenkel and Hayden C. Covington for
petitioners in No. 314. Mr. Hayden C. Covington for
appellant in No. 966.
Mr. John W. Guider, with whom Mr. William S. Duke
was on the brief, for respondent in No. 280. No appearance for respondent in No. 314 and appellee in No. 966.
Mr. Osmond K. Fraenkel filed a brief in No. 280 (with
Mr. James A. Simpson), and in No. 966 on behalf of the
American Civil Liberties Union, as amicus curiae, urging
reversal.
MR. JUSTICE REED delivered the opinion of the Court.
By writ of certiorari in Nos. 280 and 314 and byappeal
in No. 966 we have before us the question of the constitu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

tionality of various city ordinances imposing the license
taxes upon the sale of printed matter for-nonpayment of
which the appellant, Jobin, and the petitioners, Jones,
Bowden and Sanders, all members of the organization
known as Jehovah's Witnesses, were convicted.
No. 280
The City of Opelika, Alabama, filed a complaint in the
Circuit Court of Lee County, charging petitioner Jones
with violation of its licensing ordinance by selling books
without a license, by operating as a Book Agent without a
license, and by operating as a transient agent, dealer or distributor of books without a license.' The license fee for
Book Agents (Bibles excepted) was $10 per annum, that
for transient agents, dealers or distributors of books $5.'
"4.Penalties. It shall be unlawful for any person ... to engage
in any of the businesses or vocations for which a license may be required without first having procured a license therefor, and any violation hereof shall constitute a criminal offense, and shall be punishable
by fine . and by imprisonment.
1

"9. Persons Engaged In Two or More Vocations. All trades or
vocations dealing in two or more of the articles or engaged in two or
more of-the trades or vocations for which licenses are required by the
City, shall pay for and take out licenses for each line of business,
calling or vocation.
"12. Vocations Not Specified Herein. Any applicant desiring to
conduct any business or vocation other than those specified in this
license ordinance shall make application to the President of the Commission, who shall thereon fix a reasonable license for such business or
vocation and instruct the Clerk as to the amount so fixed."
2"Agents (Annual Only)
Book Agents (Bibles excepted) ...................... 10.00
Transient or itinerant agents selling rugs, antiques, goods,
wares, merchandise or taking orders for same ........ 25.00

JONES v. OPELIKA.
584

Opinion of the Court.

Under ยง 1 of the ordinance, all licenses were subject to revocation in the discretion of the City Commission, with or
There is a clause providing for severance
without notice
in case of invalidity of any section, condition or provision.'
Petitioner demurred, alleging that the ordinance, because
of unlimited discretion in revocation and requirement of a
license, was an unconstitutional encroachment upon freedom of the press. During the trial, without .ajury, these
contentions, with the added claim of interference with
freedom of religion, were renewed at the end of the city's
case, and at the close of all the evidence. The court overruled these motions, and found petitioner guilty on evidence that, without a license, he had been displaying
pamphlets in his upraised hand and walking on a city
street selling them two for five cents.' The court excluded,
as irrelevant, testimony designed to show that the petitioner was an ordained minister, and that his activities
"Peddlers, or itinerant dealers, distributors or salesmen not
otherwise included in this schedule (Annual Only) ....... 75.00
"Transient Agents or Dealers or Distributors of Books (Annual Only) .............................. ....... 5.00
"Transient Dealers ................................... 25.00
(Not covered heretofore in this schedule, definition
same as transient dealer.)
"There will be an issuance fee of $0.50 added to and- collected on
each license."
'"1. Right of City to Revoke. All licenses, permits or other grants
to carry on any business, trade, vocation, or professions for which a
charge is made by the City shall be subject to revocation in the discretion of the City Commission, with or without notice to the licensee."
"'Should any section, condition, or provision or any rate or amount
scheduled as against any particular occupation exhibited in the foregoing schedule be held void or invalid, such invalidity shall not affect
any other section, rate or provision of this license schedule."
'His wife was selling pamphlets from a portable stand on the sidewalk
nearby.

588

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

were in furtherance of his beliefs and the teachings of Jehovah's Witnesses. Once again, by an unsuccessful motion
for new trial, the constitutional issues were raised. The
Court of Appeals of Alabama reversed the conviction on
appeal, because it thought the unlimited discretion of the
City Commission to revoke the licenses invalidated the
ordinance. Without discussion of this point, the Supreme
Court of Alabama decided that nondiscriminatory licensing of the sale of books or tracts was constitutional, reversed the Court of Appeals, and stayed execution pending certiorari. 241 Ala. 279, 3 So. 2d 76. This Court, having granted certiorari, 314 U. S. 593, dismissed the writ for
lack of a final judgment. 315 U. S. 782. The Court of Appeals thereupon entered a judgment sustaining the conviction, which was affirmed by the Alabama Supreme
Court and is final. 242 Ala. 549, 7 So. 2d 503. We therefore grant the petition for rehearing of the dismissal of the
writ, and proceed with the consideration of the case.
No. 314
Petitioners Bowden and Sanders were arrested by
police officers of Fort Smith, Arkansas, brought before
the. Municipal Court on charges of violation of City Ordinance No. 1172, and convicted. They appealed to the
Sebastian Circuit Court, and there moved to dismiss on
the ground that the ordinance was an unconstitutional
restriction of freedom of religion and of the press, contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment. The circuit judge
heard the case de novo without a jury, on stipulated facts.
The ordinance required a license "For each person peddling dry goods, notions, wearing apparel, household
goods or other articles not herein or otherwise specifically
mentioned $25 per month, $10 per week, $2.50 per day." '

"Be it Ordained by the Board of Commissioners of the City of Fort
Smith, Arkansas:
"Section 1. That the license hereinafter named shall be fixed and imposed and collected at the following rates and sums and it shall be un-

JONES v. OPELIKA.

589

Opinion of the Court.

584

The petitioners, in the exercise of their beliefs coneeraing their duty to preach the gospel, admitted going from
house to house without a license, playing phonographic
transcriptions of Bible lectures, and distributing books
setting forth their views to the residents in return for a
contribution of twenty-five cents per book. When persons desiring books were unable to contribute, the books
were in some instances given away free. The circuit.
judge concluded as a matter oflaw that the books were
"other articles" and that petitioners were guilty of peddling without a license. A motion for new trial was denied. On appeal the Supreme Court-of Arkansas held the,ordinance constitutional on the authority of its previous
decision in Cook v. Harrison, 180 Ark. 546, 21 S. W. 2d966, and affirmed the convictions. 202 Ark. 614, 151 S.W.
2d 1000. This Court denied certiorari, 314 U. S. 651, but,
later, because of the similarity of the issues presented to
those in the Jobin case, No. 966, vacated the denial of certiorari and issued a writ. 315 U. S. 793.
No. 966
The City of Casa Grande, Arizona, by ordinance made
it a misdemeanor for any person to carry on any occupation or business specified without first procuring a license.!
lawful for any person or persons to exercise or pursue any of the following vocations of business in the city of Fort Smith, Arkansas, without
first having obtained a license therefor from the city clerk and having
paid for the same:
"Section 40. For each person peddling dry goods, notions, wearing
apparel, household goods or other articles not herein or otherwise specifically mentioned $25 per month, $10 per week, $2.50 per day. A
person, firm or corporation using two or more men in their peddling
business $50 per annum."
'"Section 1. It shall be. unlawful for any person . . .to carry .on
any trade, calling, profession, occupation or business; in this ordinance
specified, without first having procured a license from the City of Casa
Grande, so to do,

. .

.and each and every day or fractional part of a

590

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

Transient merchants, peddlers and street vendors were
listed as subject to a quarterly license fee of $25.00, payable in advance. In the Superior Court of Pinal County,

Jobin was tried and convicted by a jury on a complaint
charging that, not having "a permanent place of business
in the City," he there carried on the "business of peddling,
vending, selling, offering for sale and, soliciting the sale of
day that any trade, calling, profession, business or occupation in this
ordinance specified is conducted or carried on without such license
shall be a misdemeanor,
"Section 2. It shall be the duty of the City Clerk . .. to prepare
and to issue a license under this ordinance for every person . .. liable
to pay a license hereunder....
Every person having such a license, and not
"Section 4. . .

*having a fixed place of business shall carry such license with him at all
times while carrying on the trade . . . or business for which the same
was granted. Every person ... having a license . .. shall produce
and exhibit the same, . . . whenever requested to do so by any police

officer or by any other officer authorized to issue, inspect or collect
licenses."
8,,Section 12. Peddlers, Transient Merchants, Vendors, defined:
(A) 'Transient Merchant' within the meaning of this ordinance
shall include every person who, not for or in connection with a business
-at a xed place within the City of Casa Grande, solicits orders from
,house to house for the future delivery of goods,. or who shall deliver
goods previously solicited by a solicitor at retail, or an order for future
delivery.
(B) As used in this ordinance, the term 'peddlers' shall include
solicitors and other vendors not having a permanent place of business
in the City of Casa Grande, and who are not specifically licensed or
permitted to sell any class of goods whatsoever.
(C) As used in this ordinance, the term 'Street Vendors' includes
all persons engaged in selling in or upon the streets, alleys or vacant
grounds within the City, any goods, wares, merchandise or articles,
including photographs, and also includes all persons engaged in conducting upon the streets, alleys, or vacant grounds of the City any
rihg, knife or similar game, or any 'faker' business, game or device.
All persons coming within the definition of the occupations defined
herein shall pay a quarterly license fee of Twenty Five Dollars ($25.00),
in advance."

JONES v. OPELIKA. 584

Opinion of the Court.

goods, wares and merchandise, to wit: pamphlets, books
and publications without first having procured a license,"
contrary to the ordinance. The evidence for the State
showed that, without a license, the appellant called at
two homes and a laundry, and offered for sale and sold
books and pamphlets of a religious nature. At one home,
accompanied by his wife, he was refused admission, but
was allowed by the girl who came to the door to play a
portable phonograph on the porch. The girl purchased
one of his stock of books, "Religion," for a quarter, and
received a pamphlet free. During the conversation, he
stated that he was an ordained minister preaching the
gospel, and quoted passages from the Bible. At the second
home, the lady of the house allowed him and his wife to
enter and play the phonograph, but she refused to buy
either books or pamphlets. When departing the appellant
left some literature on the table, although informed by
the lady that it would not be read and had better be
given to someone else. At the laundry, the appellant introduced himself as one of the Jehovah's Witnesses and
discussed with the proprietor their work and religion generally. The proprietor bought the book "Religion" for a
quarter, but declined to-buy others at the same price. He
was given a pamphlet free. When arrested, the appellant
stated that he was "selling religious booksand preaching
the gospel of the kingdom," and that because of his religious beliefs he would not take out a license. A motion at
the close of the evidence for a directed verdict of acquittal,
on the ground that the ordinance violated the Fourteenth
Amendment, was denied. The jury was instructed to
acquit unless it found the defendant was selling books
or pamphlets. It returned a verdict of guilty. On appeal,
the Supreme Court of Arizona held that the ordinance, an
"ordinary occupational license tax ordinance," did not
deny freedom of religion and of the press, and affirmed
the conviction. 118 P. 2d 97. An appeal to this Court

592

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

was allowed under ยง 237 of the Judicial Code, 28 U. S. C.
ยง 344.
The Opelika ordinance required book agents to pay
$10.00 per annum, transient distributors of books (annual only) $5.00. The license fee in Casa Grande was
$25 per quarter, that in Fort Smith ranged from $2.50 per
day to $25 per month. All the fees were small, yet substantial. But the appellant and the petitioners, so far
as the records disclose, advanced no claim and presented
no proof in the courts below that these fees were invalid
because so high as to make the cost of compliance a deterrent to the further distribution of their literature in those
cities. Although petitioners in No. 314 contended that
their enterprise was operated at a lbss, there was no suggestion that they could not obtain from the same sources
which now supply the funds to meet whatever deficit
there may be, sums sufficient to defray license fees also.
The amount Of the fees was not considered in the opinions below, except for a bare statement by the Alabama
court that the exaction was "reasonable," and neither the
briefs nor the assignments of error in this,-Court have
directed their attack spe cifically to that issue. Consequently there is not before us the question of the power
to lay fees, objectionable in their effect because of their
size, upon the constitutionally protected rights of free
speech, press or the exercise of religion. If the size of
the fees were to be considered, to reach a conclusion one
would desire to know the estimated volume, the margin
of profit, the solicitor's commission, the expense of policing and other pertinent facts of income and expense. in
the circumstances, we venture no opinion concerning the
validity of license taxes if it were proved, or. at least, distinctly claimed, that the burden of the tax was a substantial clog upon activities of the sort here involved.' The
'Cf. SeaboardAir Line Ry. Co. v. Watson, 287 U. S. 86; New York
v. Kleinert, 268 U. S. 646; Dewey v. Des Moines, 173 U. S. 193; and.

JONES v. OPELIKA.
584

593.

Opinion of the Court.

sole constitutional question considered is whether a hondiscriminatory license fee, presumably appropriate in
amount, may be imposed upon'these activities.
We turn to the constitutional problem squarely presented by these ordinances. There are ethical principles
of greater value to mankind than the guarantees of the
Constitution, personal liberties which are beyond the
power of government to impair. * These principles and
liberties belong to the mental and spiritual realm, where
the judgments and decrees of mundane courts are ineffective to direct the course of man. The rights of which our
Constitution speaks have a more earthy quality,. They
are not absolutes 10 to be exercised independently of other
cherished privileges, protected by the same organic instrument. Conflicts in the exercise of rights arise, and the
conflicting forces seek adjustments in the courts, as do
these parties, claiming on the one side the freedom of
religion, speech and the press, guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment, 1 and on the other the right to employ the sovereign power explicitly reserved to the State
by the Tenth Amendment to ensure orderly living, without which constitutional guarantees of civil liberties
would be a mockery." Courts, no more than Constitutions, can intrude into the consciences of men or compel
them to believe contrary to their faith or think contrary
Clark v. Paul Gray, Inc., 306 U. S. 583; Standard Stock Food Co. v.
Wright, 225 U. S. 540.
" Valentine v. Chrestensen, ante, 52, 54-55; Chaplinsky v. New
Hampshire, 315 U. S. 568, 571, and cases cited; Minersville School
District v. Gobitis, 310 U. S. 586, 594; Cantwell v. Connecticut, 310
U. S. 296, 304, 310; Schneider v. State, 308 U. S. 147, 165; Hague v.
C. 1. 0., 307 U. S. 496, 515-516; De J6nge v. Oregon, 299 U. S* 353, 364.
" Chaplinsky v. New Hampshire, 315 U. S. 568, 570-571; Cantwell v.
Connecticut, 310 U. S. 296, 303; Schneider v. State, 308 U. S. 147,
160; Lovell v. Griffin, 303 U. S. 444, 450; Gitlow v. New York, 268
U. S. 652.
Cox v. New Hampshire,312 U. S. 569, 574; Home Bldg. & L. Assn.
v. Blaisdell, 290 U. S. 398, 435.

594

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

to their convictions; but courts are competent to adjudge
the acts men do under color of a constitutional right, such
as that of freedom of speech or of the press or the free
exercise of religion, and to determine whether the claimed
right is limited by other recognized powers, equally precious to mankind."a So the mind and spirit of man remain
forever free, while his actions rest subject to necessary
accommodation to the competing needs of his fellows.
If all expression of religion or opinion, however, were
subject to the discretion of authority, our unfettered dynamic thoughts or moral impulses might be made only
colorless and sterile ideas. To give them life and force,
the Constitution protects their use. No difference of
view as to the importance of the freedoms of press or religion exists. They are "fundamental personal rights and
liberties." Schneider v. State, 308 U. S. 147, 161. To proscribe the dissemination of doctrines or arguments which
do not transgress military or moral limits is to destroy
the principal bases of democracy,-knowledge and discussion. One man., with views contrary to the rest of his
compatriots, is entitled to the privilege of expressing his
ideas by speech or broadside to anyone willing to listen or
to. read. Too many settled beliefs have in time been rejected to justify this generation in refusing a hearing to
its own dissentients. But that hearing may be limited by
action of the proper legislative body to times, places and
methods for the enlightenment of the community which,
in view of existing social and economic conditions, are not
at odds with the preservation of peace and good order.
This means that the proponents of ideas cannot determine entirely for themselves the time and place and
manner for the diffusion of knowledge or for their evangelism, any more than the civil authorities may hamper
or suppress the public dissemination of facts and prinCantweull v. Connecticut, 310 U. S. 296, 303; Reynolds v. United
1
States, 98 U. S. 145, 166.

JONES v. OPELIKA.
584

Opinion of the Court.

ciples by the people." The ordinary requirements of civilized life compel this adjustment of interests. The task
of reconcilement is made harder by the tendency to accept as dominant any contention supported by a claim
of interference with the practice of religion or the spread
of ideas. Believing, as this Nation has from the first, that
the freedoms of worship and expression are closely akin
to the illimitable privileges of thought itself, any legislation affecting those freedoms is scrutinized to see that
the interferences allowed are only those appropriate to
the maintenance of a civilized society. The determination of what limitations may be permitted under such an
abstract test rests with the legislative bodies, the courts,
the executive, and the people themselves, guided by the
experience of the past, the needs of revenue for law enforcement, the requirements and capacities of police protection, the dangers of disorder, and other pertinent
factors.
Upon the courts falls the duty of determining the validity of such enactments as may be challenged as unconIn dealing with these delicate
stitutional by litigants.E
adjustments, this Court denies any place to administrative censorship of ideas or capricious approval of distributors. In Lovell v. Griffin, 303 U. S. 444, the requirement
of permission from the city manager invalidated the ordinance, pp. 447 and 451; in Schneider v. State, that of a
police officer, pp. 157 and 163. In the Cantwell case, the
secretary of the public welfare council was to determine
whether the object of charitable solicitation was worthy,
p. 302. We held the requirement bad." Ordinances abso" Cox v. New Hampshire,312 U. S. 569, 573, 576; Cantwell v. Connecticut, 310 U. S. 296, 306; Schneider v. State, 308 U. S. 147, 160.
"Cf. Schneider v. State, supra, 161.
Cf. Hague v. C. 1. 0., 307 U. S. 496, 516.

596

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

lutely prohibiting the exercise of the right to disseminate
information are, a fortiori, invalid."
The differences between censorship and complete prohibition, either of subject matter or the individuals participating, upon the one hand, and regulation of the conduct
of individuals in the time, manner and place of their activities upon the other, are decisive. "One who is a martyr to
a principle . . . does not prove by his martyrdom that
he has kept within the law," said Mr. Justice Cardozo,
concurring in Hamilton v. Regents, 293 U. S. 245, 268,
which held that conscientious objection to military training would not excuse a student, during his enrollment,
from attending required courses in that science." There
is to be noted, too, a distinction between nondiscriminatory regulation of operations which are incidental to the
exercise of religion or the freedom of speech or the press
and those which are imposed upon the religious rite itself
or the unmixed dissemination of information. Casual
reflection verifies the suggestion that both teachers and
preachers need to receive support for themselves as well
as alms and benefactions for charity and the spread of
knowledge. But when, as in these cases, the practitioners
of these noble callings choose to utilize the vending of
their religious books and tracts as a source of funds, the
financial aspects of their transactions need not be wholly
disregarded. To subject any religious or didactic group to
a reasonable fee for their money-making activities does
not require a finding that the licensed acts are purely commercial. It is enough that money is earned by the sale
1,Hague

v. C.1. 0., 307 U. S.496, 501, 518, invalidates an ordinance

forbidding any person to "distribute or cause to be distributed or

strewn about any street or public place any newspapers, paper,
periodical, book, magazine, circular, card, or pamphlet," p. 501;
Schneider v. State, 308 U. S. 147, 162, holds similar prohibitory ordinances unconstitutional.
ICf. City of Manchester v. Leiby, 117 F. 2d 661, requirement of
badge for street selling of books, papers or pamphlets.

JONES v. OPELIKA.
584

597. โข

Opinion of the Court.

of articles. A book agent cannot escape a license requirement by a plea that it is a tax on knowledge. It would
hardly be contended that the publication of newspapers
is not subject to the usual governmental fiscal exactions,
Giragiv. Moore, 301 U. S. 670; 48 Ariz. 33, 58 P. 2d 1249;
49 Ariz. 74, 64 P. 2d 819, or the obligations placed by statutes on other business. ' Associated Press v. Labor Board,
301 U. S. 103, 130. The Constitution draws no line between a payment from gross receipts or a net income tax
and a suitably calculated occupational license. Commercial advertising cannot escape control by the simple expedient of printing matter of public interest on the same
sheet or handbill. Valentine v. Chrestensen, ante, p. 52.
Nor does the fact that to the participants a formation in
the streets is an "information march," and "one of their
ways of worship," suffice to exempt such a procession from
a city ordinance which, narrowly construed, required a
license for such a parade."9
When proponents of religious or social theories use
the ordinary commercial methods of sales of articles to
raise propaganda funds, it is a natural and proper exercise
of the power of the State to charge reasonable fees for
the privilege of canvassing. Careful as we may and
should be to protect the freedoms safeguarded by the Bill
of Rights, it is difficult to see in such enactments a
shadow of prohibition of the exercise of religion or of
abridgement of the freedom of speech or the press. It is
prohibition and unjustifiable abridgement which are interdicted, not taxation. Nor do we believe it can be frly
said that because such proper charges may be expanded
into unjustifiable abridgements they are the refore invalid
on their face. The freedoms claimed by those seeking relief here are guaranteed against abridgement by the Fourteenth Amendment. Its commands protect their rights.
The legislative power of municlipalities must yield when
Cox v. New Hampshire, 312 U. S. 569, 572, 573, 576.

598

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

abridgement is shown. Compare Grosjean v. American
Press Co., 297 U. S. 233, with Giragi v. Moore, 301 U. S.
670. If we were to assume, as is here argued, that the
licensed activities involve religious rites, a different question would be presented. These are not taxes on free will
offerings. But it is because we view these sales as partaking more of commercial than religious or educational
transactions that we find the ordinances, as here presented, valid. A tax on religion or a tax on interstate
commerce may alike be forbidden by the Constitution.
It does not follow that licenses for selling Bibles or for
manufacture of articles of general use, measured by extrastate sales, must fall. It may well be that the wisdom of
American communities will persuade them to permit the
poor and weak to draw support from the petty sales of
religious books without contributing anything for the
privilege of using the streets and conveniences of the municipality. Such an exemption, however, would be a voluntary, not a constitutionally enforced, contribution.
In the ordinances of Casa Grande and Fort Smith, we
have no discretionary power in the public authorities to
refuse a license to any one desirous of selling religious
literature. No censorship of the material which enters
into the books or papers is authorized. No religious symbolism is involved, such as was urged against the flag salute
in Minersville School District v. Gobitis, 310 U. S. 586.
For us there is no occasion to apply here the principles taught by that opinion. Nothing more is asked
from one group than from another which uses similar methods of propagation. We see nothing in the
collection of a nondiscriminatory license fee, uncontested in amount, from those selling books or papers,
which abridges the freedoms of worship, speech or press.
Cf. Grosjean v. American Press Co., 297 U. S. 233, 250.
As to the claim that even small license charges, if valid,
will impose upon the itinerant colporteur a crushing ag-

JONES v. OPELIKA.
584

599

Opinion of the Court.

gregate, it is plain that if each single fee is, as we assume,
commensurate with the activities licensed, then though
the accumulation of fees from city to city may in time
bulk large, he will have enjoyed a correlatively enlarged
field of distribution. Cf. Coverdale v. Pipe Line Co., 303
U. S. 604, 612-6131 The First Amendment does not require a subsidy in the form of fiscal exemption. Giragi
v. Moore, supra. Accordingly, the challenge to the Fort
Smith and Casa Grande ordinances fails.
There is an additional contention by petitioner as to
the Opelika ordinance. It is urged that, since the licenses
were revocable, arbitrarily, by the local authorities, note 3,
supra,there can be no true freedom for petitioners in the
dissemination of information, because of the censorship
upon their actions after the issuance of the license. But
there has been neither application for, nor revocation of,
a license. The complaint was bottomed on sales without
a license. It was that charge against which petitioner
claimed the protection of the Constitution. This issue
he had standing to raise. Smith v. Cahoon, 283 U. S. 553,
562.- From what has been said previously, it follows that
the objection to the unconstitutionality of requiring a
license fails. There is no occasion, at this time, to pass on
the validity of the revocation section, as it does not affect
his present defense. Highland Farms Dairy v. Agnew,
300 U. S. 608, 616; Lehon v. City of Atlanta, 242 U. S. 53,
56.
In Lovell v. Griffin, 303 U. S. 444, we held invalid a statute which placed the grant of a license within the discretion of the licensing authority. By this discretion, the
right to obtain a license was made an empty right. Therefore the formality of going through an application was
naturally not deemed a prerequisite to insistence on a constitutional right. Here we have a very different situation.
A license is required that may properly be required. The
fact that such a license, if it were granted, may subse-

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
STONE,

C. J., dissenting.

316 U. S.

quently be revoked does not necessarily destroy the licensing ordinance. The hazard of such revocation is much too
contingent for us now to declare the licensing provisions
to be invalid. Lovell v. Griffin has, in effect, held that
discretionary control in the general area of free speech is
unconstitutional. Therefore, the hazard that the license
properly granted would be improperly revoked is far too
slight to justify declaring the valid part of the ordinance,
which is alone now at issue, also unconstitutional.
The judgments in Nos. 280, 314 and 966 are
Affirmed.
MR.CHIEF JUSTICE STONE:

The First Amendment, which the Fourteenth makes
applicable to the states, declares: "Congress shall .make
no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of
speech, or of the press." I think that the ordinance in
each of these cases is on its face a prohibited invasion of the
freedoms thus guaranteed, and that the judgment in each
should be reversed.
The ordinance in the Opelika case should be held invalid
on two independent grounds. One is that the annual tax
in addition to the 50 cent "issuance fee" which the ordinance imposes is an unconstitutional restriction on those
freedoms, for reasons which will presently appear. The
other is that the requirement of a license for dissemination of ideas, when, as here, the license is revocable at
will without cause and in the unrestrained discretion of
administrative officers,, is Jikcwise an unconstitutional restraint on those freedoms.
The sole condition which the Opelika ordinance prescribes for grant of the license is payment of the designated annual tax and issuance fee. The privilege thus
purchased, for the period of a year, is forthwith revocable
in the unrestrai'.ed and unreviewable discretion of the

JONES v. OPELIKA.
584

SNE, C. J., dissenting.

licensing commission, without cause and without notice
or opportunity for a hearing. The case presents in its
baldest form the question whether the freedoms which the
Constitution purports to safeguard can be completely subjected to uncontrolled administrative action. Only recently this Court was unanimous in holding void on its face
the requirement of a license for the distribution of pamphlets which was to be issued in the sole discretion of a
municipal officer. Lovell v. Griffin, 303 U. S. 444,451. The
precise ground of our decision was that the ordinance made
enjoyment of the freedom which the Constitution guarantees contingent upon the uncontrolled will of administrative officers. We declared:
"We think that the ordinance is invalid On its face.
Whatever the motive which induced its adoption, its character is such that it strikes at the very foundation of the
freedom of the press by subjecting it to license and censorship. The struggle for the freedom of the press was primarily directed against the power of the licensor. It was
against that power that John Milton directed his assault
by his 'Appeal for the Liberty of Unlicensed Printing.'
And the liberty of the press became initially a right to
publish 'without a license what formerly could be published
only with one.' While this freedom from previous restraint upon publication cannot be regarded as exhausting
the guaranty of liberty, the prevention of that restraint
was a leading purpose in the adoption of the constitutional provision."
That purpose cannot rightly be defeated by so transparent a subterfuge as the pronouncement that, while a
license may not be required if its award is contingent upon
the whim of an administrative officer, it may be if its retention and the enjoyment of the privilege which kt urports to give are wholly contingent upon his whim. In
either case, enjoyment of the freedom is dependent upon
the same contingency, and the censorship is as effective in

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
STONE,

C. J., dissenting.

316 U. S.

one as in the other. Nor is any palliative afforded by the
assertion that the defendant's failure to apply for a license
deprives him of standing to challenge the ordinance because of its revocation provision, by the terms of which
retention of the license and exercise of the privilege may
be cut off at any time without cause.
Indeed, the present ordinance is a more callous disregard of the constitutional right than that exhibited in
Lovell v. Griffin, supra. There at least the defendant might
have been given a license if he had applied for it. In any
event he would not have been compelled to pay a money
exaction for a license to exercise the privilege of free
speech-a license which if granted in this case would have
been wholly illusory. Here the defendant Jones was prohibited from distributing his pamphlets at all, unless he
paid in advance a year's tax for the exercise of the privilege
and subjected himself to termination of the license without
cause, notice or hearing, at the will of city officials. To say
that he who is free to withhold at will the privilege of publication exercises a power of censorship prohibited by the
Constitution, but that he who has unrestricted power to
withdraw the privilege does not, would be to ignore history
and deny the teachings of experience, as well as to perpetuate the evils at which the First Amendment was aimed.
It is of no significance that the defendant did not apply
for a license. As this Court has often pointed out, when
a licensing statute is on its face a lawful exercise of regulatory power, it will not be assumed that it will be unlaw-'
fully administered in advance of an actual denial of application for the license. But here it is the prohibition of
publication, save at the uncontrolled will of public officials,
which transgresses constitutional limitations and makes
the ordinance void on its face, The Constitution can hard-'
ly be thought to deny to one subjected to the restraints
of such an ordinance the-right to attack its constitutionality, because he has not yielded to its demands. Lovell v.

JONES v. OPELIKA.
584

STONE, C. J., dissenting.

Griffin, supra,452-53; Smith v. Cahoon,283 U. S. 553,562.
The question of standing to raise the issue in this case is
indistinguishable from that in the Lovell case, where it
was resolved in the only manner consistent with the First
Amendment.
The separability provision of the Opelika ordinance'
cannot serve, in advance of judicial decision by the state
court, to separate those parts which are constitutionally
applicable from those which are not. We have no means of
knowing that the City would grant any license if the license
could not be made revocable at will. The state court applied the ordinance as written. It did not rely or pass
upon the effect to be given to the separability clause, or
determine whether any effect was to be given to it. Until
it has done so, this Court-as we decided only last Monday-must determine the constitutional validity of the
ordinance as it stands and as it stood when obedience to
it was demanded and punishment for its violation inflicted.
Skinner v. Oklahoma, ante, p. 535; Smith v. Cahoon,supra,
563-64.
In all three cases the question presented by the record
and fully argued here and below is whether the ordinances--which as applied penalize the defendants for not
having paid the flat fee taxes levied-violate the freedom
of speech, press, and religion guaranteed by the First and
Fourteenth Amendments. Defendants' challenge to the
ordinances, naming them, is a challenge to the substantial taxes which they impose, in specified amounts, and
not to some tax of a different or lesser amount which some
other ordinance might levy. In their briefs here they
argue, as upon the records they are entitled to do, that
the taxes are an unconstitutional burden on the right of
"Should any section, condition, or provision or any rate or amount
scheduled as against any particular occupation exhibited in the foregoing schedule be held void or invalid, such invalidity shall not effect
any other section, rate or provision of this license schedule."

604

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
STONE, C. J., dissenting.

3i6 U. S.

free speech and free religion, comparable to license taxes
which this Court has often held to be an inadmissible burden on interstate commerce. They argue also that the
cumulative effect of such taxes, in town after town
throughout the country, would be destructive of freedom
of the press for all persons except those financially able to
distribute their literature without soliciting funds for the
support of their cause.
While these are questions which have been studiously
left unanswered by the opinion of the Court, it seems inescapable that an answer must be given before the convictions can be sustained. Decision of them cannot rightly
be avoided now by asserting that the amount of the tax
has not been put in issue; that the tax is "uncontested in
amount" by the defendants, and can therefore be assumed by us to be "presumably appropriate," "reasonable," or "suitably calculated"; that it has not been proved
that the burden of the tax is a substantial clog on the activities of the defendants, or that those who have defrayed
the expense of their religious activities will not willingly
defray the license taxes also. All these are considerations
which would seem to be irrelevant to the question now before us-whether a flat tax, more than a nominal fee to
defray the expenses of a regulatory license, can constitutionally be laid on a non-commercial, non-profit activity
devoted exclusively to the dissemination of ideas, educational and religious in character, to those persons who
consent to receive them.
Nor is the essential issue here disguised by the reiterated characterization of these exactions, not as taxes but
as "fees"-a characterization to which the records lend
no support. All these ordinances on their face purport
to be an exercise of the municipality's taxing power. In
none is there the slightest pretense by the taxing authority,
or the slightest suggestion by the state court, that the
"fee" is to defray expenses of the licensing system. The

JONES v. OPELIKA.
584

SONE, C. J., dissenting.

amounts of the "fees," without more, demonstrate that
such a contention is groundless. In No. 280, Opelika itself
contends that the issue relates solely to its power to raise
money for general revenue purposes, and the Supreme
Court of Alabama referred to the levy as a "reasonable"
"tax." The tax exacted by Opelika, on the face of, the
ordinance, is in addition to a 50 cent "issuance fee," which
alone is presumably what the city deems adequate to defray the cost of administering the licensing system. Similarly in the Fort Smith and Casa Grande cases, the state
courts sustained the ordinances as a tax, and nothing else.
If this litigation has involved any controversy-and the
state courts all seemed to think that it did-the controversy has been one 'solely relating to the power to tax, and
not the power to- collect a "fee" to support a licensing
system.which, as has already been indicated, has no regulatory purpose other than that involved in the raising of
revenue.
This Court has often had occasion to point out that
where the State may, as a regulatory measure, license activities which it is without constitutional authority to tax,
it may charge a small or nominal fee sufficient to defray
the expense of licensing, and similarly it may chare a
reasonable fee for the use of its highways by interstate
motor traffic which it cannot tax. Compare Clark v. Paul
Gray, Inc., 306 U. S. 583, 598600, with Ingels v. Morf, 300
U. S. 290, and cases cited; see Cox v. New Hampshire,312
U. S. 569, 576-77. But we are not concerned in these
cases with a nominal fee for a regulatory license, which
may be assumed, for argument's-sake, to be valid. Here
the licenses are not regulatory, save as the licenses conditioned upon payment of the tax may serve to restrain or
suppress publication. None of the ordinances, if complied with, purports to, or could, control the time, place
or manner of the distribution of the books and pamphlets
concerned. None has any discernible relationship to the

606

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
SToNE, C. J., dissenting.

316 U. S.

police protection or the good order of the community.
The only condition and purpose of the licenses under all
three ordinances is suppression of the specified distributions of literature in default of the payment of a substantial tax fixed in amount and measured neither by the extent of the defendants' activities under the license nor the
amounts which they receive for and devote to religious
purposes in the exercise of the licensed privilege. Opelika
exacts a license fee for book agents of $10 per annum, and
of $5 per annum for transient distributors of books, in
addition to a 50 cent "issuance fee" on each license. The
Supreme Court of Alabama found it unnecessary to determine whether both or only one of these taxes was payable
by defendant Jones. The Fort Smith tax of $25 a month,
or $10 a week, or $2.50 a day is substantial in amount for
transient distributors of literature of the character here
involved; the Opelika exaction is even more onerous when
applied against one who may be in the city for only a day
or two; and the tax of $25 per quarter exacted by the Casa
Grande ordinance, adopted in a community having an
adult population of less than 1,000 and applied to distributions of literature like the present, is prohibitive in
effect.
In considering the effect of such a tax on the defendants'
activities, it is important to note that the state courts have
applied levies obviously devised for the taxation of business employments--in the first case the "business or vocation" of "book agent"; in the second the business of
peddling specified types of merchandise or "other articles"; in the third, the practice of the callings of,
"peddlers, transient merchants and vendors"-to activities which concededly are not ordinary business or commercial transactions. As appears by stipulation or undisputed testimony, the defendants are Jehovah's Witnesses,
engaged in spreading their religious doctrines in conformity to the teachings of St. Matthew, Matt. 10:11-14 and

JONES v. OPELIKA.
584

SToNE, C. J., dissenting.

24:14, by going from city to city, from village to village,
and house to house, to proclaim them. After asking and
receiving permission from the householder, they play to
him phonograph records and tender to him books or
pamphlets advocating their religious views. For the latter
they ask payment of a nominal amount, two to five cents
for the pamphlets and twenty-five cents for books, as a
contribution to the religious cause which they seek to advance. But they distribute the pamphlets, and sometimes
the books, gratis when the householder is unwilling or
unable to pay for them. The literature is published for
such distribution by non-profit charitable corporations
organized by Jehovah's Witnesses. The funds collected
are used for the support of the religious movement, and
no one derives a profit from the publication and distribution of the literature. In the Opelika case, the defendant's
activities were confined to distribution of literature and
solicitation of funds in the public streets.
No one could doubt that taxation which may be freely
laid upon activities not within the protection of the Bill
of Rights could, when applied to the dissemination of
ideas, be made the ready instrument for destruction of
that right. Few would deny that a license tax laid specifically on the privilege of disseminating ideas would infringe the right of free speech. For one reason among
others, if the State may tax the privilege it may fix the
rate of tax and, through the tax control or suppress the
activity which it taxes. Magnano Co. v. Hamilton, 292
U. S. 40,45; Grosjeanv. American Press Co., 297 U. S. 233,
244-45. If the distribution of the literature had been
carried on by the defendants without solicitation of funds,
there plainly would have been no basis, either statutory
or constitutional, for levying the tax. It is the collection
of funds which have been seized upon to justify the extension, to the defendants' activities, of the tax laid upon
business callings. But if we assume, despite our recent

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
STn, C. J., dissenting.

316 U.S.

decision in Schneiderv. State, 308 U, S. 147, 163, that the
essential character of these activities is in some measure
altered by the collection of funds for the support of a religious undertaking, still it seems plain that the operation of the present flat tax is such as to abridge the:
privileges which the defendants here invoke.
It lends no support to the present tax to insist that its
restrain t on free speech and religion is non-discriminatory
because the same levy is made upon business callings carried on for profit, many of which involve no question of
freedom of speech. and religion and all of which involve
commercial elements--lacking here-which for present
purposes may be assumed'to afford a basis "for taxation
apart from the exercise of freedom of speech and religion.
The constitutional protection of the Bill of Rights is not
to be evaded by classifying with business callings an activity whose sole purpose is the dissemination of ideas, and
taxing it as business callings are taxed. The immunity
which press and religion enjoy may sometimes be lost when
they are united with other activities not immune. Valentine v. Chrestensen,:ante, p. 52. But, here, the only
activities involved are the dissemination of ideas, educational and religious, and the collection of funds for the
propagation of those ideas, whichwe have said is likewise
the subject of constitutional protection. Schneider ยฐr,
State, supra; CantwelI v. Connecticut, โฌ310 U. S, 296,
304-07.
The First, Amendment is not confined to safeguarding
freedom of speech and freedomr of religion against discrimintory attempts to wipe them out. On the contrary,
the 'Constitution, by virtue of the First and the Fourteenth
Amendments, has put those freedoias in a preferred position. Their commands are not restricted to cases where the
protected privilege is sought out for attack. They extend
at least to every form of taxation which, because it is a
condition of the exercise of the privilege, is capable of being used to control or suppress it.

JONES v. OPELIKA.
584

STow, C. J., dissenting.

Even were we to assume-what I do not concede--that
there could be a lawful non-discriminatory license tax of
a percentage of the gross receipts collected by churches
and other religious orders in support of their religious
work, cf. Giragiv. Moore, 301 U. S. 670, we have no such
tax here. The tax imposed by the ordinances in these
cases is more burdensome and destructive of the activity
taxed than any gross receipts tax. The tax is for a fixed
amount, unrelated to the extent of the'defendants' activi:
ties or the receipts derived from them. It is thus the type
of flat tax which, when applied to interstate commerce,
'has repeatedly been deemed by this Court to be prohibited
by the commerce clause. See McGoldrick v. BerwindWhite Co., 309 U. S. 33, 55-57, and cases cited; cf. Best &
Co. v. Maxwell, 311 U. S. 454, 456. When applied, as it
is here, to activities involving the exercise of religious freedom, its vice is emphasized in that it is levied and paid in
advance of the actvities taxed, and applied at rates well
calculated to suppress those activities, save only as others
may volunteer to pay the tax. It requires a sizable outof-pocket expense by someone who may never succeed in
raising a penny in his exercise of the privilege which is
taxed.
The defendants' activities, if taxable at all, are taxable
only because of the funds which they solicit. But that
solicitation is for funds for religious purposes, and the
present taxes are in no way gauged to the receipts. The
taxes are insupportable either as a tax on the dissemination
of ideas or as a tax on the collection of funds for religious
purposes. For on its face a flat license tax restrains in advance the freedom taxed and tends inevitably to suppress
its exercise. The First Amendment prohibits all laws
abridging freedom of press and religion, not merely some
laws or all except tax laws. It is true that the constitutional guaranties of freedom of press and religion, like the
commerce clause, make no distinction between fixed-sum

610

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
SToNE, C. J., dissenting.

316 U. S.

taxes and other kinds. But that fact affords no excuse for
courts, whose duty it is to enfor6e those guaranties, to close
their eyes to the characteristics of a tax which render it
destructive of freedom of press and religion.
We may lay to one side the Court's suggestion that a
tax otherwise unconstitutional is to be deemed valid unless it is shown that there are none who, for religion's sake,
will come forward to pay the unlawful exaction. The defendants to whom the ordinances have been applied have
not paid it and there is nothing in the Constitution to
compel them to seek the charity of others to pay it before
protesting the tax. It seems fairly obvious that if the
present taxes, laid in small communities upon peripatetic
religious propagandists, are to be sustained, a way has been
found for the effective suppression of speech and press and
religion despite constitutional guaranties. The very taxes
now before us are better adapted to that end than were the
stamp taxes which so successfully curtailed the dissemination of ideas by eighteenth century newspapers and pamphleteers, and which were a moving cause of the American
Revolution. See Collett, History of the Taxes on Knowledge, vol. 1, c. 1; May, Constitutional History of England,
7th ed., vol. 2, p. 245; Hanson, Government and the Press,
1695-1763, pp. 7-14; Morison, The English Newspaper,
1622-1932, pp. 83-88; Grosjean v. American Press Co.,
supra, 245-49. Vivid recollections of the effect of those
taxes on the freedom of press survived to inspire the
adoption of the First Amendment.
Freedom of press and religion, explicitly guaranteed by
the Constitution, must at least be entitled to the same
freedom from burdensome taxation which it has been
thought that the more general phraseology of the commerce clause has extended to interstate commerce. Whatever doubts may be entertained as to this Court's function
to relieve, unaided by Congressional legislation, from burdensome taxation under the commerce clause, see Gwin,

JONES v. OPELIKA.
584

MURPHY, J., dissenting.

White & Prince, Inc. v. Henneford, 305 U. S. 434, 441,
446-55; McCarroll v. Dixie Lines, 309 U. S. 176, 184-85,
it cannot be thought that that function is wanting under
the explicit guaranties of freedom of speech, press and religion. In any case, the flat license tax can hardly become
any the less burdensome or more permissible, when levied
on activities within the protection extended by the First
and Fourteenth Amendments both to the orderly -communication of ideas, educational and religious, to persons
willing to receive them, see Cantwellv. Connecticut, supra
and to the practice of religion and the solicitation of funds
in its support. Schneiderv. State, supra.
In its poten'cy as a prior restraint on publication; the
flat license tax falls short only of outright censorship or
suppression. The more humble and needy the cause, the
more effective is the suppression.
Mi. JUSTICE BLACK, MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS and MR.
JUSTICE MURPHY join in this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY, with whom the CHIEF JUSTICE,
MR. JusTICE BLACK, and MR. JusTIcE DouGLAs concur,
dissenting.-

When a statute is challenged as impinging on freedom
of speech, freedom of the press, or freedom of worship,
those historic privileges which are so essential to our political welfare and spiritual progress, it is the duty of this
Court to subject such legislatioii to examination, in the
light of the evidence adduced, to determine wheth-er it
is so drawn as not to impair the substance of those cherished freedoms in reaching its objective. Ordinances that
may operate to restrict the circulation or dissemination of
ideas on religious or other subjects should be framed with
fastidious care and precise language to avoid undue encroachment on these fundamental -liberties. And the protection of the Constitution must be extended to all, not

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
MURPHY, J., dissenting.

316 U. S.

only to those whose views accord with prevailing thought
but also to dissident minorities who energetically spread
their beliefs. Being satisfied by the evidence that the
ordinances in the cases now before us, as construed and
applied in the state courts, impose a burden on the circulation and discussion of opinion and information in matters of religion, and therefore violate the petitioners"
rights to freedom of speech, freedom of the press, and
freedom df worship in contravention of the Fourteenth
Amendment, I am obliged to dissent from the opinion of
the Court.
It is not disputed that petitioners, Jehovah's Witnesses,
were ordained ministers preaching the gospel, as they understood it, through the streets and from house to house,
orally and by playing religious records with the consent
of the houselholder, and by distributing books and pamphlets setting forth the tenets of their faith. It does not
appear that their motives were commercial, but only that
they were evangelizing their faith as they saw it.
In No. 280 the trial court excluded as irrelevant petitioner's' testimony that he was an ordained minister and
that his activities on the streets of Opelika were in furtherance of his ministerial duties. The testimony of ten clergymen of Opelika that they distributed free religious literature in their churches, the cost of which was defrayed by
voluntary contribution, and that they had never been
forced to pay anly license fee, Was also excluded. It is
admitted here that petitioner was a Jehovah's Witness and
considered himself an ordained minister.
The Supreme Court of Arizona stated in No. 966 that
appellant was "a regularly ordained minister of the denomination commonly known as Jehovah's Witnesses...
going from house to house in the city of Casa Grande
preaching the gospel, as he understood it, by means of his
'For convenience, appellant in No. 966, petitioners in No. 314, and.
petitioner in No. 280 are herein collectively referred to as "'petitioners."

JONES v. OPELIKA.
584

613

MuRPHY, J., dissenting.

spoken word, by playing various religious records on a
phonograph, with the approval of the householder, and
by distributing printed books, pamphlets and tracts which
set forth his views as to the meaning of the Bible. The
method of distribution of these printed books, pamphlets
and tracts was as follows; He first offered them for sale
at various prices ranging from five to twenty-five cents
each. If the householder did not desire to purchase any
of them he then left a small leaflet summarizing some of
the doctrines which he preached." 118 P. 2d 97, 98,.
The facts were stipulated in No. 314. Each petitioner
"claims to be an ordained minister of the gospel .
They do not engage in this work for any selfish reason
but because they feel called to publish the news and preach
the gospel of the kingdom to all the world as a witness
before the end comes. . . . They believe that the only
effective way to preach is to go from house to house and
make personal contact with the people and distribute to
them books and pamphlets setting forth their views on
Christianity." Petitioners "were going from house to
house in the residential section within the city of Fort
Smith . . . presented to the residents of these houses various booklets, leaflets and periodicals setting forth their
views of Christianity held by Jehovah's Witnesses." They
solicited "a contribution of twenty-five cents for each
book," but "these books in some instances are distributed
free when the people wishing them are unable to contribute." 151 S. W. 2d 1000, 1001.
There is no suggestion in any of these three cases that
.petitioners were perpetrating a fraud; that they were demeaning themselves in an obnoxious manner, that their
activities created any public disturbance or inconvenience,
that private rights were contravened, or that the literature
distributed was offensive to morals or created any "clear
and present danger" to organized society.
The ordinance in each case is sought to be sustained as
a system of non-discriminatory taxation of various busi-

614

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
MuRPHY,J., dissenting.

316

U.S.

nesses, professions, and vocations, iicluding the distribution of books for which contributions are asked, for the
sole purpose of raising revenue.' Any inclination to take
the position that petitioners, who were proselytizing by
distributing informative literature setting forth their religious tenets, and whose activities were wholly unrelated
to any commercial purposes, were not within the purview
of these occupational tax ordinances,' is foreclosed by the
decisions of the state courts below to the contrary. As so
construed, the ordinances, in effect, impose direct taxes
the dissemination of ideas and the distribution of literaure, relating to and dealing with religious matters, for
4 hich a contribution is asked in an attempt to gain conVerts, because those, were petitioners' activities. Such
taxes have been held to violate the Fourteenth Amendment, McConkey v. Fredericksburg,179 Va. 556, 19 S. E.
2d 682; State v. Greaves, 112 Vt. 222, 22 A. 2d,497; Blue
Island v. Kozul, 379 Ill. 511, 41 N. E. 2d 515; and that
should be the holding here.'
Freedom of Speech and Freedom of the Press,
in view of the recent decisions of-this Court striking
dowp. acts which impair freedom of speech and freedom
2

Respondent in No. 280 contends that the question presented "in no
respect relates to regulatory or police power action of a municipal
government, but is concerned only with the municipality's right to
levy taxes.",. The Supreme Court of Arizona stated in No. 966 that 'the ordinance
on its face is the ordinary occupational license tax ordinance."
8
Severhl courts have taken this positiohi. State ex rel. Semansky v.
Stark, 196 La. 307, 199 Sb. 129; People v. Finkelstein, 170 N. Y. Misc.
188, 9 N. Y. S. 2d 941; Thomas v. Atlanta, 59 Ga. App. 520, 1 S. E.
24 598; State v. Meredith, 197 S. C. 351, 15 S. E. 2d 678; State ex rel.
HIugh v. Woodruff, 147 Fla. 299, 2 So. 2d 577; Cincinnativ. Mosier, 61
Ohio App. 81,22 N. E. 2d 418, Compare, Greggv. Smith, 8L.R. Q. B.
(1872-3), p: 302; Duncan v. Gairns, 27 Canadian Cr. Cases 440; but
see Rex v. Stewart, 53 Canadian Cr. Cases 24.
see Rutledge, J, dissenting in Busey v. District of Columbia,
129 F. 2d 24, decided April 15, 1942.
N'And

JONES v. OPELIKA.
584

MuRpuy, J., dissenting.

of the press no elaboration on that subject is now iecessary. We have "unequivocally held that the streets are
proper places for the exercise of the freedom of communicating information and disseminating opinion and that,
thouh the states and municipalities may appropriately
regulate the privilege in the public interest, they may not
unduly burden or proscribe its employment in these public
thoroughfares." Valentine v. Chrestensen, ante, 52, 54.
And as the distribution of pamphlets to spread ipformation and opinion on the streets and from house to house
for non-commercial purposes is protected from the prior
restraint of censorship, Loyell v. Griffin, 303 U. S. 444;
Schneider v. Irvington, 308 U. S. 147, so should it be prop
tected from the burden of taxation.
The opinion of, the Court holds that the amount of the
tax is not before us and that a "nondiscriminatory license
fee, presumably appropriate in amount, may be imposed
upon these 'activities." Both of these holdings must be
rejected.
Where regulation or infringement of the liberty of discussion and'the dissemination of information and opinion
are involved, there are special reasons for testing the challenged statute on its face. Thornhill.v. Alabama, 310
U. S. 88,96-98, and see Lovell v. Griffin, 303 U. S. 444,452;
Drivers Union v. Meadowmoor Go., 312 U. S. 287, 297.
That should be done here.'
Consideration of the taxes leads to but one conclusionthat they prohibit or seriously hinder the distribution of
petitioners' religious literature. The opinion of the Court
admits that all the taxes are "substantial." The $25 quar'Wh .enthe Opelika ordinance is considered on its face, there is an
additional reason for its invalidity. The uncontrolled power of revocation lodged with the local authorities is but the converse of the system
of prior licensing struck down in Lovell v. Griffin, 303 U. S. 444. Here.
as there, the pervasive threat of censorship inherent in such a power
vitiates the..ordinance.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
MURPHY, J., dissenting.

316 U. S.

terly' tax of Casa Grande approaches prohibition. The
1940 population of that town was 1,545. With so few potential pifrchaseis it would take a gifted evangelist, indeed,
in view of the antagonism generally encountered by Jehovah's Witnesses, to sell enough tracts at prices ranging
from five to twenty-five cents to gross enough to pay the
tax. Cf. McConkey v. Fredericksburg, 179 Va. 556, 19
S. E. 2d 682. While the amount is actually lower in Opelika,' and may be lower in Fort Smith in that it is possible
to get a license for a short period,7 and while the circle of
purchasers is wider in those towns,8 these exactions also
place a heavy hand on petitioners' activities. The petitioners should not be subjected to such tribute.
But whatever the amount, the taxes are in reality taxes
upon the dissemination of religious ideas, a dissemination
carried on by the distribution of religious literature for religious reasons alone and not for personal profit. As such
they place a burden on freedom of speech, freedom of the
press, and the exercise of religion -even if the question of
amount is laid aside. Liberty of circulation is the very life
blood of a freepress, cf. Lovell v. Griffin, 303 U. S. 444,452,
and taxes on the circulation, of ideas have a long history of
misuse against freedom of thought.' See Grosjean v.
American Press Co., 297 U. S.233, 245-249. And taxes on
circulation solely for the purpose of revenue were success$5 or $10, depending upon which section of the ordinance is held to
apply.
'$2.50 per day, $10 per week, and $25 per month.
8
The 1940 population of Fort Smith was 36,584 and that of Opelika,

8,487.

"The English Stamp'Act of 1712, 10 Anne, c. 19, put a tax on newspapers and pamphlets to check what seemed to the Government to be
"false and scandalous libels" and "the most horrid blasphemies against
God and religion." This and subsequent enactments led to a long struggle in England for the repeal of these "taxes on knowledge" and the
recognition of the freedom of the press. See Collett, History of the
Taxes on Knowledge (1899); Place, Taxes on Knowledge (1831).

JONES v. OPELIKA.
584

MURPHY, J., dissenting.

fully resisted, prior to the adoption of the First Amendment, as interferences with freedom of the press.'" Surely
all this was familiar knowledge to the framers of the Bill
,of Rights. We need not shut our eyes to the possibility
that use may again be made of such taxes, either by discrimination in enforcement or otherwise, to suppress the
unpalatable views of militant minorities such as Jehovah's
Witnesses. See McConkey v. Fredericksburg,179 Va. 556,
19S. E. 2d 682. As the evidence excluded in No. 280 tended
to show, no attempt was there made to apply the ordinance to ministers functioning in a more orthodox manner
than petitioner.
Other objectionable features in addition to the factor
,of historical misuse exist. There is the unfairness present
in any system of flat fee taxation, bearing no relation to the
ability to pay. And there is the cumulative burden of
many such taxes throughout the municipalities of the land,
as the number of recent cases involving such ordinances
abundantly demonstrates." The activities of Jehovah's
" Stamp taxes for purely revenue purposes were successfully resisted
in Massachusetts in 1757 and again in 1785 on the ground that they interfered with freedom of the press. See Duniway, Freedom of the Press
in Massachusetts (1906), pp. 119-120, 136-137; Thomas, History of
Printing in America (1810), vol. 2, pp. 267-268. The press also vigorously opposed the Stamp Act of 1765, 5 Geo. III, c. 12, which was also
a revenue measure. See Duniway, op. cit., p. 124; Thomas, op. cit., pp.
189, 297, 322, 329, 350; Van Tyne, Causes of the War of Independence
(1922), p. 160; 15 Scottish Historical Review 322, 326.
'i In addition to the instant cases, see Cincinnati v. Mosier, 61 Ohio
App. 81, 22 N. E 2d 418; State v. Meredith, 197 S. C. 351, 15 S. E. 2d
678; Thomas v. Atlanta, 59 Ga. App. 520, 1 S. E. 2d 598; Commonwealth v. Reid, 144 Pa. Super. 569, 20 A. 2d 841; People v. Banks, 168
N. Y. Misc. 515, 6 N. Y. S. 2d 41; Cook v. Harrison,180 Ark. 546, 21
S. W. 2d 966; State v. Greaves, 112 Vt. 222, 22 A. 2d 497; Busey v.
District of Columbia, 129 F. 2d 24; McConkey v. Fredericksburg,179
Va. 556, 19 S. E. 2d 682; Blue Island v. Kozul, 379 Ill. 511, 41 N. E. 2d
515; State ex rel. Semansky v. Stark, 196 La. 307, 199 So. 129; People
v. Finkelstein, 170 N. Y. Misc. 188, 9 N. Y. S. 2d 941; State ex rel.

618

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
MURPHY, J., dissenting.

316 U.S.

Witnesses are widespread, and the aggregate effect of
numerous exactions, -no matter how small, can conceivably force them to choose between refraining from attempting to recoup part of the cost of their literature, or
else paying out large sums in taxes. Either choice hinders
and may even possibly put an end to their activities.
There is no basis, other' than a refusal to consider the
characteristics of taxes such as these, for any assumption
that such taxes are "commensurate with the activities
licensed." Nor is there any assurance that "a correlatively enlarged field of distribution" will insure sufficient
proceeds even to meet such exactions, let alone leaving
any residue for the continuation of petitioners' evangelization.
Freedom of speech, freedom of the press, and freedom
of religion all have a double aspect-freedom of thought
and freedom of action. Freedom to think is absolute of its
own nature; the most tyrannical government is powerless
to control the inward workings of the mind. But even
an aggressive mind is of no missionary value unless there
is freedom of action, freedom to communicate its message
to others by speech and writing. Since in any form of
action there is a possibility of collision with the rights of
others, there can be no doubt that this freedom to act is
not absolute but qualified, being subject to regulation in
the public interest which does not unduly infringe the
right. However, there is no assertion here that the ordinances were regulatory, but if there were such a claim,
they still should not be sustained. No abuses justifying
regulation are advanced and the ordinances are not narrowly and precisely drawn to deal with actual, or even
hypothetical, evils, while at the same time preserving the
substance of the right. Cf. Thornhill v. Alabama, 310 U. S.
Hough v. Woodruff, 147 Fla. 299, 2 So. 2d 577; Borchert v. Ranger,
42 F. Supp. 577.

JONES v. OPELIKA.
584

MURPHY, J., dissenting.

88, 105; Cantwell v. Connecticut,310 U. S. 296,311. They
impose a tax on the dissemination of information and
opinion anywhere within the city limits, whether on the
streets or from house to house. "As we have said, the
streets are natural and proper places for the dissemination
of information and opinion; and one is not to have the
exercise of his liberty of expression in appropriate places
abridged on the plea that it may be exercised elsewhere."
Schneider v. Irvington, 308 U. S. 147, 163. These taxes
abridge that liberty.
It matters not that petitioners asked contributions br
their literature. Freedom of speech and freedom of the
press cannot and must not mean freedom only for those
who can distribute their broadsides without charge. There
may be others with messages more vital: but purses less
full, who must seek some reimbursement for their outlay
or else forego passing on their ideas. The pamphlet, an
historic weapon against oppression, 2 Lovell v. Griffin, 303
U. S. 444, 452, is today the convenient vehicle of those
with limited resources because newspaper space and radio
time are expensive and the cost of establishing such enterprises great. If freedom of speech and freedom of the
press are to have any concrete meaning, people seeking
to distribute information and opinion, to the end only that
others shall have the benefit thereof, should not be taxed
for circulating such matter. It is unnecessary to consider
now the validity of such taxes on commercial enterprises
engaged in the dissemination of ideas. Cf. Valentine v.
Chrestensen, ante, p. 52; Giragi v. Moore, 301 U. S. 670.
Petitioners were not engaged in a traffic for profit. While
the courts below held their activities were covered by the
' The pamphlets of Paine were not distributed gratuitously. See
Introduction to Paine's Political Writings (London, 1909) pp. 3, 5.
Pamphlets were extensively used in the struggle for religious freedom. See Greene, The Development of Religious Liberty in Connecticut (1905), pp. 282-283, 299-301.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
MURPHY, J., dissenting.

316 U. S.

ordinances, it is clear that they were seeking only to further their religious convictions by preaching the gospel

to others.
The exercise, without commercial motives, of freedom
of speech, freedom of the press, or freedom of worship
are not proper sources of taxatidn for. general revenue
purposes. In dealing with a permissible regulation of
these freedoms and the fee charged in connection therewith, we emphasized the fact that the fee "was not a revenue tax, but one to meet the expense incident to the administration of the Act and to the maintenance of public
order," and stated only that, "There is nothing contrary
to the Constitution in the charge of a fee limited to the
purpose stated." Cox v. New Hampshire, 312 U. S. 569,
577. The taxes here involved are ostensibly for revenue
purposes; they are not regulatory fees. Respondents do
not show that the instant activities of Jehovah's Witnesses create special problems causing a drain on the municipal coffers, or that these taxes are commensurate with
any expenses entailed by the presence of the Witnesses.
In the absence of such a showing, I think no tax whatever
can be levied on petitioners' activities in distributing their
literature or disseminating their ideas. If the guaranties
of freedom of speech and freedom of the press are to be
preserved, municipalities should not be free to raise general
revenue by taxes on the circulation of information and
opinion in non-commercial causes; other sources can be
found, the taxation of which will not choke off ideas.
Taxes such as the instant ones violate petitioners' right
to freedom of speech and freedom of the press, protected
against state invasion by the Fourteenth Amendment.
Freedom of Religion.
Under the foregoing discussion of freedom of speech
and freedom of the press, any person would be exempt
from taxation upon the act of distributing information or

JONES v. OPELIKA.
584

MURPHY, J., dissenting.

opinion of any kind, whether political, scientific, or religious in character, when done solely in an effort to spread
knowledge and ideas, with no thought of commercial gain.
But there is another, and perhaps, more precious, reason
why these ordinances cannot constitutionally apply to
petitioners. Important as free speech and a free press are
to a free government and a free citizenry, there is a right
even more dear to many individuals-the right to worship
their Maker according to their needs and the dictates of
their souls and to carry their message or their gospel to
every living creature. These ordinances infringe that
right, which is also protected by the Fourteenth Amendment. Cantwell v. Connecticut, 310 U. S. 296.
Petitioners were itinerant ministers going through the
streets and from house to house in different communities,
preaching the gospel by distributing booklets and pamphlets setting forth their views of the Bible and the tenets of
their faith. While perhaps not so orthodox as the oral sermon, the use of religious books is an old, recognized and
effective mode of worship and means of proselytizing.18
For this, petitioners were taxed. The mind rebels at the
thought that a minister of any of the old established
churches could be made to pay fees to the community before entering the pulpit. These taxes on petitioners' efforts to preach the "news of the Kingdom" should be struck
down because they burden petitioners' right to .worship the
Deity in their own fashion and to spread the gospel as they
understand it. There is here no contention that their manner of worship gives rise to conduct which calls for regulation, and these ordinances are not aimed at any such
practices.
One need only read the decisions of this and other courts
in the past few years to see the unpopularity of Jehovah's
"See, The Volumes of the American Tract Society (1848), pp. 15-16,
24; Home Evangelization (1850), pp. 70-74; Lee, History of the
Methodists (1810), p. 48.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941..
MupHy, J., dissenting.

316 U. S.

Witnesses and the difficulties put in their path because of
their religious beliefs. An arresting parallel exists between
the troubles of Jehovah's Witnesses and the struggles of
various dissentient groups in the American colonies for religious liberty which culminated in the Virginia Statute for
Religious Freedom,"' the Northwest Ordinance of 1787,'"
and the First Amendment. In most of the colonies there
was an established church, and the way of the dissenter
was hard. All sects, including Quaker, Methodist, Baptist,.
Episcopalian, Separatist, Rogerine, and Catholic, suffered.1" Many of the non-conforming ministers were itinerants, and measures were adopted to curb their unwanted
activities. The books of certain denominations were banned."' Virginia and Connecticut had burdensome licensing requirements. 8 Cf. Lovell v. Griffin, 303 U. S. 444;
Schneider v. Irvington, 308 U. S. 147; Cantwel v. Connecticut, 310 U. S. 296. Other states required oaths before
one could preach which many ministers could not conscientiously take. 9 Cf. Reidv. Brookville, 39 F. Supp. 30;
14

Adopted in 1785 through the efforts of Jefferson and Madison.

Virginia Code of 1930, ยง 34.
"A
ARTicLE I. No person demeaning himself in a peaceable and orderly
manner shall ever be molested on account of his mode of worship or
religious sentiments in the said territory.
16
See Works of Thomas Jefferson: (1861), vol. VIII, pp. 398-402
(Notes on Virginia, Query XVII); Cobb, Rise of Religious Liberty in
America (1902); Little, Imprisoned Preachers and Religious Liberty in
Virginia (1938); Lee, History of the Methodists (1810), pp. 62-74;
Greene, The Development of Religious Liberty in Contiecticut (1905),
pp. 158-180; Guilday, Life and Times of John Carroll (1922), vol. 1,
Chapters V and VIII.
I
"Jefferson, op. cit.; Greene, op.,cit., p. 165.
Little, op. cit., ppj 11-13, 67-69; Greene, op. cit., pp. 243, 262-263,
358; Cobb, op. cit., pp. 98, 104, 358; Wright, Hawkers and Wikers in
Early America (1927), Chapter X; Baldwin, The New' England
Clergy and the Revolution (1928), p. 59.
The Journal of the Rev. Francis Asbury (1821), vol .1, pp. 208;"
253; Lee, op. cit., pp. 62-74.

JONES v. OPELIKA.
584

BLAcK, DOUGLAS and MURPHY, JJ., dissenting.

Kennedy v. Moscow, 39 F. Supp. 26. Research reveals no
attempt to control or persecute by the more subtle means
of taxing the function of preaching, or even any attempt
0
to tap it as a source of revenue."
By applying these occupational taxes to petitioners'
non-commercial activities, respondents now tax sincere efforts to spread religious beliefs, and a heavy burden falls
upon a new set, of itinerant zealots, the Witnesses. That
burden should not be allowed to stand, especially if, as
the excluded testimony in No. 280 indicates, the accepted
clergymen of the town can take to theirs'pulpits and distribute their literature without the impact of taxation.
Liberty of conscience is too full of meaning for the individuals in this Nation to permit taxation to prohibit or
substantially impair the spread of religious ideas, even
though they are controversial and run counter to the
established notions of a community. If this Court is to err
in evaluating claims that freedom of speech, freedom of
the press, and freedom of religion have been invaded, far
better that it err in being overprotective of these precious
rights.
MR.JUSTICE BLACK, MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS,

MR.JUSTICE

MURPHY:
The opinion of the Court sanctions a device which in
our opinion suppresses or tends to suppress the free exercise of a religion practiced by a minority group. This is
but another step in the direction which Minersville School
District v. Gobitis, 310 U. S.586, took against the same
religious minority, and is a logical extension of the principles upon which that decision rested. Since we joined
in the opinion in the Gobitis case, we think this is an apThe Stamp Act of 1765 exempted "any books containing only matters of devotion or piety." MacDonald, Documentary Source Book
of American History (3d ed., 1934), p. 128.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Syllabus.

316 U.S.

propriate occasion to state that we now believe that it
also was wrongly decided. Certainly our democratic form
of government, functioning under the historic Bill of
Rights, has a high responsibility to accommodate itself
to the religious views of minorities, however unpopular
and unorthodox those views may be. The First Amendment does not put the right freely to exercise religion in
a subordinate position. We fear, however, that the opinions in these and in the Gobitis case do exactly that.

WALLING, ADMINISTRATOR OF THE WAGE AND
HOUR DIVISION, U. S. DEPARTMENT OF LABOR, v. A. H. BELO CORPORATION.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 622.

Argued April 6, 1942.-Decided June 8, 1942.

1. Nothing in the Fair Labor Standards Act bars an employer from
contracting with his employees to pay them the same wages that
they received previously, so long as the new rate equals or exceeds
the minimum required by the Act. P. 630.
2. An employer whose employees worked irregular hours and were
paid fixed weekly salaries, entered into contracts with them, individually, which in each case specified a basic rate of pay per hour,
for the maximum hours fixed by the Act, and not less than one and
one-half times that rate per hour for overtime, with a guaranty
that the employee should receive each week for regular time and
overtime not less than an amount specified. Under this plan, the
employee worked more than the statutory maximun. regular hours
before he became entitled to any pay in addition to the weekly
guaranty, but when he worked enough hours to earn more than the
guaranty, the surplus time was paid for at 150% of .the "basic," or
contract, rate. His compensation equalled or approximated that
which he was receiving when the Act went into effect, and exceeded
the minima which the Act prescribes. Held:

