OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Syllabus.

316 U. S.

made completely effective because of the failure to provide
a short period for appeal from the order of the District
Court. Despite this omission, Rule XI has made the purpose effective in the case of review by certiorari in this
Court.
The writ will accordingly be dismissed for failure to
comply with Rule XI. We have rko occasion to pass on
the question whether the District Court's denial of the
application, on a ground which the Government suggests
was erroneous, will bar a subsequent application to the
District Court for similar relief.
Dismissed.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY CO.

ET AL. V.

UNITED STATES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA.

No. 927.

Argued April 29, 30, 1942.-Decided May 25, 1942.

The Interstate Commerce Commission found that, at certain complaining markets, the railroads absorbed sK-itching charges on competitive
grain shipments (i. e., traffic originating at points served by more
than one railroad), but not on non-competitive or local traffic (originating at points served by only one railroad), while at all other
markets in central-western territory the carriers absorbed the switching charges on both competitive and non-competitive shipments.
This practice, it found, was at variance with the general purpose of
the grain-rate structure to bring about "an adjustment under which
the rates to and from all western markets would be on relatively the
same level, or an adjustment under which the rates to and from the
markets would approximate a mileage parity," and was supported
neither by revenue considerations nor sound transportation factors,
and was unreasonable. Held, that a cease-and-desist order based
upon these findings was within the statutory and constitutional
powers of the Commission. P. 348.
41 F. Supp. 439, affirmed.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. CO. v. U. S.
346

347

Opinion of the Court.

from a decree of the District Court dismissing
a suit to set aside an order of the Interstate Commerce
Commission. See 245 I. C. C. 11.
APPEAL

Mr. J. P. Plunkett, with whom Messrs. L. B. da Ponte,
M. L. Countryman, Jr., F. G. Dorety, and R. J. Hagman
were on the brief, for-appellants.
Mr. Smith R. Brittingham, Jr., with whom Solicitor
General Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Arnold, and
Messrs. Robert L. Pierce, Daniel W. Knowlton, and E. M
Reidy were on the brief, for the United States et al.;
and Mr. Neal E. Williams submitted for the Public Service Commission of North Dakota et al., appellees.
PER CURIAM.

This is an appeal from a decree of the District Court,
41 F. Supp. 439, dismissing a suit to set aside an order of
the Interstate Commerce Commission, 245 I. C. C. 11,
requiring the appellant railroads to cease and desist from
maintaining certain absorption rules and practices found
to be unduly discriminatory and unreasonable, and therefore offensive to the Interstate Commerce Act, 49 U. S. C.
§§ 1 (6), 3 (1), 15 (1).
Upon complaint of the Minneapolis Traffic Association,
representing grain interests in Minneapolis, St. Paul, and
Duluth, Minnesota, and Superior, Wisconsin, the Commission instituted an inquiry into the practices of the rail
carriers at the complaining markets, with respect to absorption of connecting-line switching charges on so-called
noncompetitive or local shipments (i. e., originating at
points served by only one railroad) of grain, grain products, and seeds. After extensive hearings, the Commission
found that at the complaining markets the railroads generally absorbed the switching charges on competitive traffic
(i. e., originating at points served by more than one rail-

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

road) but not on noncompetitive or local traffic, while at all
other markets in central-western territory the carriers absorbed the switching charges on both competitive and noncompetitive shipments. This practice, the Commission
concluded, was wholly at variance with the general purpose
of the grain-rate structure to bring about "an adjustment
under which the rates to and from all western markets
would be on relatively the same level, or an adjustment
under which the rates to and from the markets would approximate a mileage parity." 245 I. C. C. 11, 13. It was
further found that the carriers' absorption practices at the
complaining markets were supported neither by revenue
considerations nor sound transportation factors, and that
the widespread absorption of switching charges on noncompetitive traffic at other important markets was strong
evidence of the reasonableness of such practice and of the
unreasonableness of the carriers' refusal to absorb such
charges at the complaining markets. Upon the basis of
these findings, the Commission entered the order challenged on this appeal.
Neither the validity of the Commission's findings nr
its compliance with procedural safeguards is assailed here.
The order is attacked on the ground that the Commission
has exceeded its constitutional and statutory powers.
Section 1 (6) of the Interstate Commerce Act requires
common carriers subject to the Act "to establish, observe
and enforce . . just and reasonable regulations and
pracLices affecting classifications, rates, or tariffs, .... and
all other matters relating to or connected with the receivin', handling, transporting, storing, and delivery of property . . .which may be necessary or proper to secure the
safe and prompt receipt, handling, transportation, and delivery of property . . .upon just and reasonable terms,
and every unjust and unreasonable classification, regulation, and practice is prohibited and declared to be un-

NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. CO. v. U. S.
346

Opinion of the Court,

lawful." Section 3 (1) makes it unlawful for common
carriers to give "any undue or unreasonable preference or
advantage to any particular person,.., locality,... region,
district, territory, or any particular description of traffic,
in any respect whatsoever; or to subject any particular
person,... locality, .. . region, district, territory, or any
particular description of traffic to any undue or unreasonable prejudice or disadvantage in any respect whatsoever
. ."
Section 15 (1) authorizes and empowers the Commission, upon finding that a practice of carriers is "unjust
or unreasonable or- unjustly discriminatory," to make an
appropriate cease-and-desist order.
.We are of opinion that these statutory provisions furnish ample authority for the order made here by the Commission. The findings sufficiently support the Commission in undertaking to remove a discrimination as between grain shippers and markets. As was noted only
the other day in Board of Trade v. United States, 314
U. S. 534, 548, involving another phase of the elaborate
and delicately balanced grain rite structure, "We certainly
have neither technical competence nor legal authority to
pronounce upon the wisdom of the course taken by the
Commission." Since the action of the Commission was
based upon relevant transportation considerations and the
Constitutional contentions are plainly without merit, the
order will not be set aside. Los Angeles Switching Case,
234 U. S. 294; Boardof Trade v. United States, supra.
Affirmed.
*

