UNITED STATES v. IRWIN.
Counsel for Parties.

UNITED STATES TO THE USE OF NOLAND COMPANY, INC. v. IRWIN ET AL., TRADING AS IRWIN
& LEIGHTON, ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA.

No. 658. Argued March 11, 1942.-Decided April 6, 1942.
1. The construction of a library building at Howard University in
the District of Columbia-a project for which federal funds were
appropriated by Act of February 14, 1931, and which subsequently was approved, and funds allotted therefor, by the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Administration of Public
Works under Title II of the National Industrial Recovery Act of
June 16, 1933-was a "public work" within the meaning of the
Miller Act of August 24, 1935; and therefore the contractors were
properly required to post a payment bond securing materialmen;
and a materialman who supplied materials for the project and had
not been paid therefor was entitled to sue on the bond in the
name of the United States. P. 27.
2. The Miller Act was intended to apply to the "public works" authorized by the Administrator under the National Industrial Recovery Act; and, under the latter Act, the library at Howard
University was a "public work," since it was a project "of the
character heretofore constructed or carried on ...

with public

aid to serve the interests of the general public." P. 30.
122 F. 2d 73, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

314 U. S. 602, to review the reversal of a

judgment overruling a motion to dismiss the complaint
in a suit upon a bond.
Mr. Alexander M. Heron, with whom Mr. Bynum E.
Hinton was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Prentice E. Edrington, with whom Mr. A. M. Hol-

combe was on the brief, for respondents.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

MR.JUSTIcE BYRNES delivered the opinion of the Court.

By Act of February 14, 193,1 making appropriations

for the Department of the Interior, Congress authorized
the construction of a library building at Howard University in the District of Columbia. The cost was not to
exceed $800,000, of which sum $400,000 was made immediately available. Only a small part of this money had
been used for architects' fees when the President, shortly
after his inauguration in 1933, ordered impounded these
and all other funds appropriated for construction.
Title II of the National Industrial Recovery Act of June
16, 1933,2 created a Federal Emergency Administration
of Public Works, with all of its powers vested in an Administrator. By § 202 the Administrator was directed
to -"'prepare a comprehensive program of public works,
which shall include among other things the following: . . . (c) any projects of the character heretofore con-

structed or carried on either directly by public authority or
with public aid to serve the interests of the general public; . . ." And § 203 provided that "with a view to in-

creasing employment quickly .. the President is authorized and empowered through the Administrator or through
such other agencies as he may designate or create, (1) to
construct, finance, or aid in the construction or financing
of any public works project included in the program prepared pursuant to § 202;

. .

On August 24, 1935, Congress passed the Miller Act.'
By the terms of this statute, "before any contract, ex146 Stat. 1115, 1160.

848 Stat. 195, 201.
849 Stat. 793; U. S. C., Title 40, §§ 270 a-d:
"Sec. 1 (a) Before any contract, exceeding $2,000 in amount, for
the construction, alteration, or repair of any public'building or public
work of the United States is awarded to any person, such person shall
furnish to the United States the following bonds, which shall become

UNITED STATES v. IRWIN.
23

Opinion of the Court.

ceeding $2,000 in amount, for the construction, alteration,
or repair of any public building or public work of the
United States is awarded to any person, such person shall
furnish to the United States . . . a payment bond with a
surety or sureties satisfactory to such officer for the protection of all persons supplying labor and material in the
prosecution of the work provided for in said contract for
the use of each such person." The Act also permitted
persons who supplied materials and labor to bring suit on
the bond in the name of the United States.
binding upon the award of the contract to such person, who is hereinafter designated as 'contractor':
"(1) A performance bond with a surety or sureties satisfactory to
the officer awarding such contract, and in such amount as he shall deem
adequate, for the protection of the United States.
"(2) A payment bond with a surety or sureties satisfactory to such
officer for the protection of all persons supplying labor and material

in the prosecution of the work provided for in said contract for the
usb of each such person. Whenever the total amount payable by the
terms of the contract shall be not more than $1,000,000 the said payment bond shall be in a sum of one-half the total amount payable by
the terms of the contract. Whenever the total amount payable by the
terms of the contract shall be more than $1,000,000 and not more than
$5,000,000, the said payment bond shall be in a sum of 40 per centum
of the total amount payable by the terms of the contract. Whenever
the total amount payable by the terms of the contract shall be more
than $5,000,000 the said payment bond shall be in the sum of

$2,500,000.
"(b) The contracting officer in respect of any contract is authorized
to waive the requirement of a performance bond and payment bond
for so much of the work under such contract as is to be performed in a
foreign country if he finds that it is impracticable for the contractor
to furnish such bonds.
"(c) Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the authority
of any contracting officer to require a performance bond or other
security in addition to those, or in cases other than the cases specified
in subsection (a) of this section.
"See. 2 (a) Every person who has furnished labor or material in the
prosecution of the work provided for in such contract, in respect of

26

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

These are the statutes applicable to this dispute.
After the passage of the National Industrial Recovery
Act, the Secretary of the Interior (who had been named
Administrator pursuant to Title II) approved the library
building at Howard University as a part of the public
works program and allotted $1,120,811.58 for its construction. On December 5, 1936, the Assistant Secretary
of the Interior, on behalf of the United States, entered
which a payment bond is furnished under this Act and who has not
been paid in full therefor before the expiration of a period of ninety
days after the day on which the last of the labor was done or performed by him or material was furnished or supplied by him for which
such claim is made, shall have the right to sue on such payment bond
for the amount, or the balance thereof, unpaid at the time of institution of such suit and to prosecute said action to final execution and judgment for the sum or sums justly due him: Provided, however, That
any person having direct contractual relationship with a subcontractor
but no contractual relationship express or implied with the contractor
furnishing said payment bond shall have a right of action upon the
said payment bond upon giving written notice to said contractor within
ninety days from the date on which such person did or performed the
last of the labor or furnished or supplied the last of the material for
which such claim is made, stating with substantial accuracy the amount
claimed and the name of the party to whom the material was furnished or supplied or for whom the labor was done or performed. Such
notice shall be served by mailing the same by registered mail, postage
prepaid, in an envelop addressed to the contractor at any place he
maintains an office or conducts his business, or his residence, or in any
manner in which the United States marshal of the district in which
the public improvement is situated is authorized by law to serve
summons.
"(b) Every suit instituted under this section shall be brought in the
name of the United States for the use of the person suing, in the United
States District Court for any district in which the contract was to be
performed and executed and not elsewhere, irrespective of the amount
in controversy in such suit, but no such suit shall be commenced after
the expiration of one year after the date of final settlement of such
contract. The United States shall not be liable for the payment of any
.costs or expenses of any such suit."

UNITED STATES v. IRWIN.
23

Opinion of the Court.

into a contract with respondent, Irwin & Leighton, for
the construction of the library building. As a condition
of the contract, Irwin & Leighton was required to furnish
a bond to secure the laborers and materialmen, under provisions of the Miller Act.4 Accordingly, it posted such a
bond in the amount of $408,618, with respondent United
States Guarantee Company as surety.
Petitioner furnished to a sub-contractor materials worth
$23,649.35. Of this sum it was paid $11,146.80, leaving
due $12,502.55 with interest. When payment of this
amount was refused, petitioner brought this suit on the
bond in the name of the United States. Respondents
moved' to dismiss the complaint on the ground that the
construction of the library building at Howard University
was not a "public work," within the meaning of the Miller
Act. The District Court overruled the motion to dismiss.
The Court of Appeals allowed a special appeal and reversed, 122 F. 2d 73, on the authority of its own earlier
decision in Maiatico Construction Co. v. United States,
65 App. D. C. 62, 79 F. 2d 418. The case is here on certiorari.
The question before us therefore is whether the construction of the library, was a "public work" as that term
is used in the Miller Act. We think that it is, that the
Assistant Secretary of the Interior was consequently authorized to require respondents to post a bond securing
materialmen, and that petitioner is entitled to sue on
the bond in the name of the United States.
"Bulletin No. 51 of Federal Emergency Administration of Public
Works, "Information Relating to the Negotiation and Administration

of Contracts for Federal Projects under Title II of the National Industrial Recovery Act" (Revised, Oct. 1, 1935). Part I, § 2 (a): "The

forms required for general use in connection with construction and repair projects are as follows: . . . U. S. Government Standard Form
of Payment Bond No. 25A for the protection of labor and materialmen,
pursuant to Public. Act No. 321, Seventy-fourth Congress, approved
August 24, 1935 [The Miller Act]."

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.

28

Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

No aid in ascertaining the meaning of "public works"
is to be found in the Miller Act itself. But in the National
Industrial Recovery Act, passed two years before the
Miller Act, Congress defined it as including "any projets
of the character heretofore constructed or carried on either
directly by public authority or with public aid to serve the'
interests of the general public." The library at Howard
University was not only a project "of the characterheretofore constructed or carried on . . . with public aid"; it
had been directly and specifically authorized by Congress
in 1931 and money had actually been appropriated for it.
And it requires no discussion that Howard University,
established by the authority of Congress "for the education
of youth in the liberal arts and sciences,"' serves "the
interests of the general public."
In Maiatico Construction Co. v. United States, supra,
upon which the Court of Appeals principally relied in
reaching an opposite conclusion, the same court had construed a different statute, the Heard Act of August 13,
1894.8 That Act required that "any person or persons
entering into a formal contract with the United States for
the construction of any public building, or the prosecution
and completion of any public work, or for repairs upon any
public building or public work, shall be required" to post a
bond for the security of both the United States and the
suppliers of labor and materials. It permitted the laborers
and materialmen to enforce their claims by intervening in
any suit by the United States on the bond. The plaintiffs
in the Maiatico case supplied labor and materials in the
construction of three dormitory buildings at Howard University, the contract for which had been let to the defendant construction company by the United States in Novem14 Stat. 438.
28 Stat. 278, as amended by the Act of Feb. 24, 1905, 33 Stat.

811 and the Act of March 3, 1911, 36 Stat. 1167.

UNITED STATES v. IRWIN.
23

Opinion of the Court.

ber, 1930. The Court of Appeals decided that the plaintiffs
could not recover on the defendant's bond because the
dormitories were not "public buildings" and their construction was not a "public work." It based this conclusion on
the theory that "public buildings" or "public works,"
within the meaning of the Heard Act, included only buildings which belonged to the United States. Since Howard
University is a private institution and since it held title to
the dormitories, recovery on the bond was denied to the
suppliers of materials and labor.'
Whatever may have been the validity of this narrow
formula when applied to the Heard Act, we cannot approve its application to this suit under the Miller Act. In
the first place, the whole concept of "public works" has
been considerably altered since the enactment of the Heard
Act in 1894, and particularly within the last dozen years,
and the question of title to the buildings'or improvements
or to the land on which they are situated is no longer of
primary significance.8 But we are not left to such vague
guidance. Two and a half years after the execution of the
contract involved in the Maiatico case, Congress, in the
National Industrial Recovery Act, specifically defined
"public works" as including "any projects of the character
heretofore constructed or carried on either directly by public authority or with public aid to serve the interests of the
general public." The Miller Act was passed two years
later for the purpose of enlarging the protection which the
Heard Act had afforded to, laborers and materialmen by
facilitating the procedure for enforcing their claims against
the contractor. During the hearings on the several bills
from which the Miller Act evolved, Congressman Duffy,
This emphasis upon title to the building or project or to the land
on which it is situated finds support, as far as the Heard Act is
concerned, in Title Guaranty & Trust Co. v. Crane Co., 219 U. S. 24;
23 Op. Atty. Gen. 174.
'See Peterson v. United States, 119 F. 2d 145, at 147-148.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

of Ohio, the author of one of the bills and a member of the
sub-committee that drafted the Act, declared without dissent by any Representative: "If this bill were passed by
this Congress it would certainly be applicable to the
public works program and that is the reason for its
importance." I
We have no doubt that the Miller Act was intended
to apply to the "public works" authorized by the Administrator under the National Industrial Recovery Act.
The National Industrial Recovery Act did not leave to
speculation the nature of the "public works" that Congress
envisaged. Its language was not technical, but plain and
specific. Expressly included were "projects of the character heretofore constructed or carried on . .. with public aid to serve the interests of the general public."
Beyond question the library at Howard University was
such a project.
The respondents evidently had no difficulty interpreting
the language of the Recovery Act or the. Miller Act until
they were called upon to meet the claims of petitioner.
The record does not reveal that Irwin & LUighton objected
to posting the bond when the contract was executed. It
paid a premium of $8,172.25 for the bond, and the surety
company accepted it without question. Presumably,
these are the circumstances which caused the Court of
Appeals to remark upon "the strong equities" of petitioner's case.
We hold that the Administrator had the authority to
require the bond, and that petitioner was entitled to
bring this action on it. Holding this view, we find it
unnecessary to consider the other questions raised by
petitioner.
Reversed.
'Hearings on H. R. 2068, H. R. 4027, H. R. 4231, H. R. 4461,
H. R. 5054, H. R. 6018, H. R. 6115, H. R. 6677, H. R. 8519 (March 8,
22, April 26, and May 3, 1935), Committee on the Judiciary, House
6f Representatives, 74th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 71.

