400

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

HILL v. TEXAS.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CRIMINAL APPEALS OF TEXAS.

No. 1119. Argued May 11, 1942.-Decided .June 1, 1942.
1. Evidence held sufficient to make out a prima facie case of systematic
discrimination against Negroes in the selection of grand jurors,violative of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 404.
2. State grand jury commissioners who consciously omit to place any
Negro on the grand jury list, making no efforts to ascertain whether
there are in the county Negroes qualified under the state law to serve
as jurors, fail to perform their constitutional duty, recognized by
ยง 4 of the Civil Rights Act of March 1, 1875. P. 404.
3. Where the evidence shows, without contradiction, that a large number of Negroes who are literate reside in the county from which
grand jurors are drawn, there is no room to infer that there are not
among them literate householders of good moral character, qualified
and available for grand jury service under the state law. P. 404.
157 S. W. 2d 369, reversed.
CERTIORARI, post, p. 655, to review a judgment sustaining

a conviction for rape.
Mr. J. ForrestMcCutcheon submitted for petitioner.
Messrs. Pat Coon, Assistant Attorney General of Texas,
and Spurgeon E. Bell, with whom Mr. Gerald C. Mann,
Attorney General, was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. CHIF JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Petitioner, a negro, was indicted for the crime of rape
by the grand jury for Dallas County, Texas. When the
case was called for trial he submitted to the court his verified written motion to quash the indictment because he
had been denied the equal protection of the laws guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendent. The grounds of
his motion were that negroes had-been excluded from the

HILL v. TEXAS.
400

Opinion of the Court.

grand jury which returned the indictment, and that the
jury commissioners and other state officers charged with
the duty of organizing and impanelling grand juries in
Dallas County have for many years systematically excluded, and in this case did exclude, negroes from the grand
jury because of their race.
After hearing evidence the court denied the motion and
proceeded with the trial, which resulted in a verdict and
judgment of conviction. The Texas Court of Criminal
Appeals upheld the trial court's ruling on the motion and
affirmed the judgment. - Tex. Cr. -; 157 S. W. 2d 369.
It held that petitioner had not sustained the burden of
proof resting on him to show that the failure to select
negroes for service on the grand juries in Dallas County
was because of their race rather than their lack of statutory qualifications for grand jury service. We granted
certiorari, post, p. 655, to inquire whether the court's ruling
is consonant with our decisions in Neal v. Delaware, 103
U. S. 370; Pierre v. Louisiana, 306 U. S. 354; and Smith
v. Texas, 311 U. S. 128.
Article 339 of the Texas Code of Criminal Procedure
provides that a grand juror must be a citizen of the state
and county, qualified to vote there, a freeholder within
the state or a householder within the county, of sound
mind and good moral character, able to read and write.
He must not have been convicted of a felony or be under
indictment or other legal accusation of any felony. 'The
section directs that "whenever it shall be made to appear
to the court that the requisite number of jurors who have
paid their poll taxes cannot be found within the county,
the court shall not regard the payment of poll taxes as a
qualification for service as a juror."
In rejecting the proof of discrimination on which petitioner relied, the Texas Court of Criminal Appeals said
"appellant assumed the burden of sustaining his allega-

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U.S.

tions by proof. He attempted to do so by showing certain
facts from which, as he claims, such a conclusion could be
reasonably drawn. He showed that 58,000 white persons
and 8,000 negroes paid poll taxes in Dallas County, but the
record is silent as to how many of them were male and how
many were female persons; nor is it shown how many of
these male persons could read and write; nor how many
of them were freeholders in the state or householders in the
county." And the State argues here that in these circumstances there can be no inference that long-continued
failure of the county officials to select members of the
colored race to serve on grand juries is discriminatory,
without proof that there are members of that race living
in the county who are qualified to serve as grand jurors.
The state filed a general denial of petitioner's motion,
but submitted no answering affidavits, and called no witnesses, and so the only question before us is whether petitioner made out a prima facie case of the discriminatory
exclusion of negroes from the grand jury. Petitioner
called as witnesses two of the three grand jury commissioners, whose duty it is to summon sixteen men, of whom
twelve are selected for service on each grand jury in Dallas
County (articles 338, 357). They testified that the commission had summoned, for service on the grand jury
which returned the indictment, members of the white
race with whom they were acquainted and whom they
knew to be qualified to serve. They testified that members of the commission had no prejudice against the colored race; that they discussed the possibility of selecting
negroes to serve, and that they knew negroes in the county.
One testified: "I personally did not know of a qualified
negro that I thought would make a good grand juror."
The other testified he did not know which of the negroes
of his acquaintance could read and write. Both testified
that they made no investigation or inquiry to ascertain

HILL v. TEXAS.
400

Opinion of the Court.

whether there were negroes in the county qualified for
grand jury service.
An assistant district attorney for the county, who had
lived in Dallas County for twenty-seven or twenty-eight
years and had served for sixteen years as a judge of the
criminal court in which petitioner was tried and convicted,
testified that he never knew of a negro being called to
serve on a grand jury in the county. The district clerk
of the coilnty, whose duty it is to certify the grand jury
list to the sheriff (article 344), knew of no citations issued
for negroes to-serve upon the grand jury. A colored witness, a property owner and poll tax payer in Dallas
County, engaged in the insurance and bonding business,
and resident in the county for fifty-four years, testified
that he had often been called to serve as a petit juror but
had never known of,any colored man to be called as a grand
juror. Two other colored witnesses, property owners and
poll tax payers, who had lived in the county for twentyfive years; had never known of a negro to be called on a
grand jury. There was also evidence already mentioned
which the Texas Court of Criminal Appeals found sufficient to show that of the 66,000 poll tax payers in the
county 8,000 were negroes.
Another witness estimated the total negro population
of the county as 55,000. Actually this was an underestimate, for the 1940 census shows the total population
-of the county to be 398,564, of whom 61,605 are negroes,
and, of these, 19,133 are males twenty-one years old or
more. The census of 1930 showed only 7.5 percent of the
negro population of the county to be illiterate. The census data of 1940 show that of the 17,263 male negroes in
the county who were twenty-five years of age or more,
16,107 had attended grade school or higher institutions of
learning. Of these, 7,979 had attended grade school from
five to eight years; 1,970- had attended high school from

404

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U.S.

one'to three years, and 1,124 for four years; 466 had attended college from one to three years, and 284 for four
years or more.
We think petitioner made out a prima facie case, which
the State failed to meet, of racial discrimination in the
selection of grand jurors which the equal protection
clause forbids. As we pointed out in Smith v. Texas,
supra, 131, chance or accident could hardly have accounted for the continuous omissionof negroes from the
grand jury lists for so long a period as sixteen years or more.
The jury commissioners, although the matter was discussed by them, consciously omitted to place the name of
any negro on the jury list. They made no effort to ascertain whether there were within the county members of
the colored race qualified to serve as jurors, and if so who
they were. They thus failed to perform their constitutional duty-recognized by ยง 4 of the Civil Rights Act of
March 1, 1875, 8 U. S. C. ยง 44, and fully established since
the decision in 1881 of Neal v. Delaware, supra-not to
pursue a course of conduct in the administration of their
office which would operate to discriminate in the selection
of jurors on racial grounds. Discrimination can arise
from the action of commissioners who exclude all negroes
whom they do not know to be qualified and who neither
know nor seek to learn whether there are in fact any qualified to serve. In such a case, discrimination necessarily
results where there are qualified negroes available for jury
service. With the large number of colored male residents
of the county who are literate, and in the absence of any
countervailing testimony, there is no room for inference
that there are not among them householders of good moral
character, who can read and write, qualified and available
for grand jury service.

HILL v. TEXAS.
400

Opinion of the Court.

More than sixty years ago, in Neal v. Delaware,supra,
397, a case substantially like the present, this Court laid
down the rule which we think controlling here:
"The showing thus made, including, as it did, the fact
(so generally known that the court felt obliged to take
judicial notice of it) that no colored citizen had ever been
summoned as a juror in the courts of the State,-although
its colored population exceeded twenty thousand in 1870,
and in 1880 exceeded twenty-six thousand, in a total population of less than one hundred and fifty thousand,-presented a prima facie case of denial, by the officers charged
with the selection of grand and petit jurors, of that
equality of protection which has been secured by the Constitution and laws of the United States. It was, we think,
under all the circumstances, a violent presumption which
the State court indulged, that such uniform exclusion of
that race from juries, during a period of many years, was
solely because, in the judgment of those officers, fairly
exercised, the black race in Delaware were utterly disqualifled, by want of intelligence, experience, or moral integrity,
to sit on juries."
And recently we held in Pierrev. Louisiana,supra, that a
prima facie case of race discrimination had been established where there had been a long-continued failure to
select colored citizens for service on grand juries in a
county, 50 per cent of whose population, or approximately
7,000, were colored, of whom from 70 to 80 per cent were
shown to be literate. We thought, as we think here, that
had there been -vidence obtainable to contradict the inference to be drawn from this testimony, the State would
not have refrained from introducing it, and that the evidence which was introduced sufficiently showed that there

406

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S

were colored citizens of the county qualified and available
for service on the grand jury.
A prisoner whose conviction is reversed by this Court
need not go free if he is in fact guilty, for Texas may indict
and try him again by the procedure which conforms to
constitutional requirements. But no State is at liberty to
impose upon one charged with crime a discrimination in
its trial procedure which the Constitution, and an Act of
Congress passed pursuant to the Constitution, alike forbid.
Nor is this Court at liberty to grant or withhold the benefits of equal protection, which the Constitution commands
for all, merely as we may deem the defendant innocent or
guilty. Tumey v. Ohio, 273 U. S. 510, 535. It is the
State's function, not ours, to assess the evidence against
a defendant. But it is our duty as well as the State's to
see to it that throughout the procedure for bringing him
to justice he shall enjoy the protection which the Constitution guarantees. Where, as in this case, timely objection
has laid bare a discrimination in the selection of grand
jurors, the conviction cannot stand, because the Constitution prohibits the procedure by which it was obtained.
Equal protection of the laws is something more than an
abstract right. It is a command which the State must
respect, the benefits of which every person may demand.
Not the least merit of our constitutional system is that its
safeguards extend to all-the least deserving as well as the
most virtuous.
Reversed.

