OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Syllabus.

316 U. S.

.made and which we have enumerated. Those findings
are supported by substantial evidence and are abundant
justification for the Board's ultimate finding that the sales
made through the "short" account were ordinary sales.
It is the function of the Board, not the Circuit Court of
Appeals, to weigh the evidence, to draw inferences from
the facts, and to choose between conflicting inferences.
The court may not substitute its view of the facts for that
of the Board. Where the findings of the Board are supported by substantial evidence they are conclusive. Helvering v. Lazarus & Co., supra; Helvering v. Kehoe, 309
U. S. 277, and cases cited. Under the statute, the court
may modify or reverse the decision of the Board only if it
is "not in accordance with law." 44 Stat. 110, 26 U. S. C.
§ 1141 (c) (1). In this case the criteria which the Board
employed in determining whether the sales were "short"
sales complied with the legal principles announced in
Provost v. United States, 269 U. S. 443.
Reversed.
CHICAGO ET AL. v. FIELDCREST DAIRIES, INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 706.

Argued March 30, 31, 1942.-Decided April 27, 1942.

The issues involved in a suit in the District Court by a Michigan dairy
corporation against an Illinois city and its officials were: first,
whether a city ordinance requiring that milk be delivered in "standard milk bottles" should be interpreted as forbidding delivery in
paper containers; second, whether, if the ordinance were deemed
applicable, it was in conflict with an Illinois statute enacted while
the suit was pending; and third, whether, if applicable and valid
under the state law, it was invalid under the Federal Constitution.
Held that the case should be held by the federal courts to await the
outcome of a later suit in the state court in which another cor-

CHICAGO v. FIELDCREST DAIRIES.
168

169

Opinion of the Court.

poration, parent of the Michigan company, raised substantially the

same issues. Railroad Commission v. Pullman Co., 312 U. S. 496,
followed. P. 171.
122 F. 2d 132, reversed.

CERIORARI, 314 U. S. 604, to review a decree which, on
appeal from a decree of the District Court, 35 F. Supp. 451,
restrained the city and its officials from prohibiting the
use by respondent of paper containers for the distribution
of milk.
Messrs. James A. Velde and Walter V. Schaefer, with
*whom Mr. Barnet Hodes was on the brief, for petitioners,
Mr. Fred A. Gariepy, with whom Mr. Owen Rall was
on the brief, for respondent.
By special leave of Court, Mr. Albert E. Hallett, Assistant Attorney General of Illinois, with whom Mr. George
F. Barrett, Attorney General, was on the brief, for the
State of Illinois, as amicus curiae.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Respondent, a Michigan corporation authorized to do
business in Illinois, sells milk to wholesalers and retailers
in various cities in the vicinity of Chicago. By an ordinance passed on January 4, 1935, the City of Chicago required that milk or milk products "sold in quantities of
less than one gallon shall be delivered in standard milk
bottles." § 3094. Respondent sought a permit from petitioner Board of Health to sell milk in "Pure-Pak" paper
containers in that city. That permit was not granted.
Thereafter, respondent filed suit against petitioners in
the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois, alleging, inter alia,that its "single service,

OCTOBER TERM,. 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

sterile, sanitary and non-absorbent" containers are "standard milk bottles" within the meaning of the Chicago ordinance; that, if the ordinance is construed as pr~jhibiting
respondent from using its paper containers, the ordinance
is unconstitutional and invalid under the federal and state
constitutions; and that the refusal of the permit has caused
and will cause respondent irreparable damage. The complaint prayed for a declaratory judgment that the ordinance be construed so as not to prohibit respondent from
using its containers; or, in the alternative, that the ordinance, insofar as it does prevent such use, is unconstitutional and invalid. Issue was joined. In May, 1939,
the District Court referred the cause to a master, who held
extended hearings. In July, 1939, the so-called Illinois
Milk Pasteurization Plant Law (L. 1939, pp. 660-666;
Rev. Stat. 1941, c. 561/2, §§ 115-134) was enacted, containing certain provisions regulating the use of single
service and paper containers (§ 15), and reserving to cities,
villages and incorporated towns the power to regulate the
distribution, etc., "of pasteurized milk and pasteurized
milk products, provided that such regulation not permit
any person to violate any provisions of this Act." § 19.
On April 27, 1940, the master submitted his report, finding
that respondent's paper cDntainers were not "standard
milk bottles" within the meaning of the ordinance, and
that the ordinance as construed was valid and constitutional. In October, 1940, the District Court, on exceptions to the master's report, held that respondent's containers were "standard milk bottles" within the meaning
of the ordinance. And it went on to hold that, under the
Milk Pasteurization Plant Law, the city was without
power to prohibit the use of such containers. It entered
a decree in accordance with that finding, and enjoined
petitioners from interfering with respondent in the sale
and delivery of milk and milk products in those con-

CHICAGO v. FIELDCREST DAIRIES.
168

171

Opinion of the Court.

tainers. 35 F. Supp. 451. On appeal to the Circuit
Court of Appeals, that court held that the District Court
erred in holding that respondent's containers were
"standard milk bottles" within the meaning of the ordinance. But it concluded that the ordinance, insofar as
it prohibited, rather than regulated, the use of paper
containers, was invalid by reason of the state Act. And
it went on to intimate by way of obiter dictum that, if
the ordinance were construed to prohibit the use of respondent's containers, it would not survive as a constitutional exercise of the police power. 122 F. 2d 132.
On May 15, 1940, while the cause was pending before
the District Court, Dean Milk Company, of which respondent is a wholly-owned subsidiary, instituted an
action in the Illinois state court against petitioners and
other city officials, raising substantially the same issues
and seeking substantially the same relief as respondent
raised and sought in the federal court. After judgment
had been rendered by the District Court in this case, and
while the appeal was pending, Dean Milk Company moved
in the state court for a decree granting the relief prayed
for and retaining jurisdiction by the state court pending
final determination of the appeal in thig case. Such a
decree was entered by the state court in December 1940.
We granted the petition for certiorari because of the
doubtful propriety of the District Court and of the Circuit
Court of Appeals undertaking to decide such an important
question of Illinois law instead of remitting the parties to
the state courts for litigation of the state questions involved in the case. Railroad Commission v. Pullman
Co., 312 U. S. 496.
We are of the opinion that the procedure which we followed in the Pullman case should be followed here. Illinois
has the final say as to the meaning of the ordinance in question. It also has the final word on the alleged conflict be-

172 ,

OCTOBER TERMj, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U.S.

tween the ordinance and the state Act. The determination
which the District Court, the Circuit Court of Appeals, or
we, might make could not be anything more than a forecast--a prediction'as to the ultimate decision of the
Supreme Court of llinois. Here, as in the Pullman case,
"a federal court of\ equityis asked to decide an issue by
making a tentative answer which may be displaced tomorrow by a state adjudication." 312 U.S. p. 500. Furthermore, the dispute in its broad reach involves a question as
to whether a city has trespassed on the domain of a State.
Though that issue was not in the case when the complaint
was filed, it emerged, due to the passage of the Milk Pasteurization Plant Law, long before the District Court
entered its decree.

The delicacy of that issue and an

appropriate regard "for the rightful independence of state
governments" (Beal v. Missouri Pacific R. Co., 312 U. S.
45, 50) rebmphasize that it is a wise and permissible policy
for the federal chancellor to stay his hand in absence of
an authoritative and controlling determination by the
state tribunals. As we said in the Pullman case, "The
resources of equity are equal to an adjustment that will
avoid the waste of a tentative decision" and any "needless
friction with state policies." See p. 500 and cases cited;
Thompson v. MagnoliaPetroleum Co., 309,U. S.478, 483484. It is an exercise of a "sound discretion, which guides
the determination of courts of equity." Beal v. Missouri
Pacific R. Co., supra, p. 50. In this case, that discretion
calls for a remission of the parties to the state courts, which
alone can give a definitive answer to the major questions
posed. Plainly, they constitute the more appropriate
forum for the trial of those issues. See 54 Harv.-L. Rev.
1379. Considerations of delay, inconvenience, and :cost
to the parties, which have been urged upon us, do not call
for a different result. For we are here concerned with
the much larger issue as to the appropriate relationship

CHICAGO v. FIELDCREST DAIRIES.
168

Opinion of the Court.

between federal and state authorities functioning as a
harmonious whole.
The desirability of the course which we have suggested
is not embarrassed by any question as to whether ready
recourse may be had to the state courts. The availability
of the state tribunal is obvious, since a case involving substantially identical issues and brought by respondent's
parent corporation is pending in the state court. Cf.
Gilchrist v. Interborough Rapid Transit Co., 279 U. S.
159.
It is of course true that respondent sought to raise in its
complaint a constitutional issue-an issue which lurks in
the case even though it not be deemed substantial. But
here, as in the Pullmancase, that issue may not survive the
litigation in the state courts. If it does not, the litigation
is at an end. That again indicates the wisdom of allowing the local law issues first to be resolved by those who
have the final say. Avoidance of constitutional adjudications where not absolutely necessary is part of the wisdom of the doctrine of the Pullmancase.
We therefore vacate the judgment and remand the
cause to the District Court with directions to retain the
bill pending a determination of proceedings in the state
court in conformity with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
MR.

JUSTICE ROBERTS

concurs in the result.

