74

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Syllabus.

316 U. S.

tremes have produced a nebulous field of confusion which
has been recognized by courts striving to fit close cases into
one category or the other.' Interpretative regulations,
such as Article 43 (a) (5), are appropriate aids toward
eliminating that confusion and uncertainty. Cf. Helvering v. Wilshire Oil Co., 308 U. S. 90, 102; Textile Mills
Securities Corp. v. Commissioner, 314 U. S.326.
Reversed.

GREGG CARTAGE & STORAGE CO.
UNITED STATES ET AL.

ET AL. V.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.

No. 535. Argued March 4, 1942.-Decided April 13, 1942.
1. The provision of § 206 (a) of the Motor Carrier Act, 1935, granting
"grandfather" rights to common carriers "mn bona fide operation
on June 1, 1935, and since that time," requires that the service shall
have been continuous (except for interruptions over which the carrier "had no control") from June 1, 1935, until the, time of the
hearing by the Commission on the application. P. 78'
2. The Commission was warranted in holding as a matter of law that
an interruption of service caused by the carrier's bankruptcy was
not one over which the carrier "had no control" within the meaning
of the Act; and it was not required to go behind the adjudication
and examine into the particular causes of the bankruptcy. P. 79.
See Eaton v. Phoenix Securities Co., 22 F. 2d 497, 498; United
States v. Hotchkiss Redwood Co., 25 F. 2d 958; Harmar Coal Co. v.
Heiner, 34 F. 2d 725, 727; Argonaut Consolidated Mining Co. v.
Anderson, 52 F. 2d 55, 56; American Investment Securities Co. v.
United States, 112 F. 2d 231, 232.
The decisions of this Court illustrate the difficult problems of
classification encountered. See Cedar Street Co. v. Iark Realty Co.,
220 U. S. 107, 170; Von Baumbach v. Sargent Land Co., 242 U. S. 503;
Edwards v. Chile Copper Co., 270 U. S.452; Phillips v. International
Salt Co., 274 U. S. 718-with which compare Zonne v. Minneapolis
Syndicate, 220 U. S. 187; McCoach v. Minehill Railway Co., 228 U. S.
295; United States v. Emery, Bird, Thayer Co., 237 U. S. 28.

GREGG CARTAGE CO. v. U. S.
74

Opinion of the Court.

3. The grandfather clause of the Motor Carrier Act is to be construed
as extending only to carriers plainly within its terms. P. 83.
4. A purchaser of the grandfather rights of a bankrupt carrier stands
in no better position with respect to such rights than did the bankrupt. P. 82.
5. In this case, the interruption of service was of sufficient durationat least 69 days-to establish that the carrier had not been in operation "since" June 1, 1935, within the meaning of § 206 (a). P. 83.
6. A claim that the delay of the Commission in acting upon an application under § 206 (a) deprived the applicant of an advantage which
he would have had under § 212 (a)-where such delay is not shown
to have been arbitrary or discriminatory, nor, in view of the magnitude of the Commission's task in respect to applications under § 206
(a), unreasonable-is no ground for relief. P. 83.
42 F. Supp. 266, affirmed.
APPEAL from a District Court of three judges dismissing
the complaint in a suit to set aside an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission denying an application for a
certificate of public convenience and necessity under § 206
(a) of the Motor Carrier Act, 1935.
Messrs. Howell Leuck and H. Russell Bishop, with
whom Messrs. H. D. Driscoll and Bingham W. Zellmer
were on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. James C. Wilson, with whom Solicitor- General
Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Arnold, and Messrs.
Smith R. Brittingham, Jr., Daniel W. Knowlton, and E.
M. Reidy were on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON delivered the opinion of the Court.
This appeal is from a judgment of a statutory threejudge court denying appellants' petition to set aside an
order of the Interstate Commerce Commission refusing
the Gregg Cartage & Storage Company a certificate of
public convenience and necessity under the so-called
grandfather clause of § 206 (a) of the Motor Carrier Act,
1935, 49 U. S. C. § 306 (a).

76

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

The Gregg Company, an Ohio corporation, operated in
1935 and earlier as a common carrier of general freight between points in several northeastern states. In a number
of ,important cities, it ,maintained terminals at which
freight was assembled. It performed no over-the-road
carrier service with its own vehicles, but provided such
service entirely by the use of so-called owner-operator
vehicles. Such vehicles as it owned and operated directly
were used in cartage in and about Cleveland.
On February 12, 1936, the Gregg Company filed an
application with the Interstate Commerce Commission for
a certificate of public convenience and necessity as a common carrier under the grandfather clause of § 206 (a) of
the Motor Carrier Act. A hearing was held on June 8
and 9, 1937, before qn examiner who, on December 17,
1937, recommended that the certificate be granted.
Meanwhile, the Gregg Company had failed and ceased
to operate. It had arranged the filing on October 4, 1937,
of a creditor's bill in a state court of Ohio, which on the
following day appointed the company's counsel to be
its receiver with authority to continue the business. On
the day of this receiver's appointment, other creditors
filed a petition in bankruptcy in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Ohio, Eastern
Division, which on October 27 adjudicated the company
a bankrupt, and on October 30 appointed a receiver to
preserve the assets of' the estate pending the election and
qualification of a trustee.' In operating the business, the
state court receiver confined himself to the completion of
shipments en route, and did not solicit or accept new
business. On October 14, he filed with the Commission
a petition for permission to suspend operations without
prejudice to rights under the grandfather clause. The
'The

trustee in bankruptcy, an appellant here, was appointed

near the end of December, 1937.

GREGG CARTAGE CO. v. U. S.
74

Opinion of the Court.

Commission, of the opinion that it lacked power to authorize such a suspension, denied this petition on November 30, 1937. The receiver in bankruptcy took over the
business on the day of his appointment,- and conducted
no operations at any time. Pursuant to an order of the
bankruptcy court, on December 6, 1937, he sold the trade
names and good will of the bankrupt estate, together
with its rights under the grandfather clause application,
to appellant Northeastern Transportation Company, for
$850 at public auction.
On January 7, 1938, Northeastern and the receiver in
bankr,,ptcy filed a joint application with the Commission
asking that Northeastern be substituted as applicant in
lieu of Gregg. The Commission withheld action until
it had determined Gregg's rights. Northeastern considered a resumption of operations, but decided against it
on the advice of field representatives of the Interstate
Commerce Commission.
A further hearing before another examiner, confined to
the circumstances of the interruption of Gregg's service,
resulted in another recommendation of the issuance of a
certificate under the grandfather clause. The Commission, however, denied the application December 12, 1939,
after a rehearing following the report of Division 5, a
majority of which had held similarly on November 14,
1938. 10 M. C. C. 255, 21 M. C. C. 17. The Commission
ruled that an interruption of service within the control of
the applicant had occurred, that the purchase by Northeastern had conferred no operating rights, and that therefore neither corporation was entitled to a certificate under
the grandfather clause. Five commissioners dissented.
Gregg and its trustee in bankruptcy then filed a complaint
in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Ohio, Eastern Division, praying that the order
of the Commission denying Gregg's application be annulled and set aside and that the Commission be directed

78

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

to issue a certificate of public convenience and necessity
to Gregg. A statutory court of three judges was convened, Northeastern was allowed to intervene, and judgment went against the complainants, who appealed to
this Court, which noted probable jurisdiction.2 42 F.
Supp. 266.
Appellants contend that the Commission and the court
below erroneously construed § 206 (a)' of the Motor Carrier Act in holding that, excepting the specified interruptions of service, the statute required continuous operation
from June 1, 1935, until the hearing by the Commission on
the application. We have, however, held to the contrary.
United States v. Maher, 307 U. S. 148, petition for limited
rehearing denied, 307 U. S. 649. Hoey v. United States,
308 U. S. 510; Lubetich v. United States, 315 U. S. 57.
Appellants contend alternatively that the Commission
should be reversed for refusing to hold that the applicant
"had no control" over the cessation of operations.
From October 15, 1935 to December 31, 1936, Gregg was
insured against public liability and property damage by
an insurance company, which in 1936 failed either to disprove or settle certain claims against Gregg and was
rumored to be insolvent. For these reasons Gregg cancelled its contract with this company and obtained similar
insurance with another company, paying the premiums
in advance. The'failing insurance company was adjudged
a bankrupt in January of 1937, and ceased to pay any
Urgent Deficiencies Act of October 22, 1913, 28 U. S. C. § 47a.
This provides in pertinent part that: "if ay such carrier or
predecessor in interest was in bona fide operation as a common carrier
by motor vehicle on June 1, 1935, over the route or routes or within
the territory for which application is made and has so operated since
that time, . . . except ... as to interruptions of service over which the
applicant or its predecessor in interest had no control, the Commission
shall issue such certificate without requiring further proof that public
convenience and necessity will be served by such operation." 49 U. S.-

C., § 306 (a).

GREGG CARTAGE CO. v. U. S.
74

Opinion of the Court.

claims. Gregg, thereby left with the burden of satisfying
claims for personal injury and property damage arising
during the period when it had carried insurance in the
bankrupt company, paid some of them in the later months
of 1937; but approximately 175, estimated to aggregate
in their face amount about $200,000, remained unpaid.
It also paid about $15,000 on claims for cargo loss and
damage, which two other insurers, relying upon "technical"
insurers' defenses, refused to pay. All policies of insurance taken out by Gregg had the required approval of the
Interstate Commerce Commission.
Solvent on June 30, 1937, Gregg had become insolvent
by October 30, 1937. When it appeared impossible to
satisfy all demands in full, resort was had to the friendly
receivership in the state court. This precipitated the involuntary bankruptcy in the federal court, which in turn
brought operations to a halt.
The Commission based its refusal to, find that the applicant "had no control" over the interruption of service
upon the fact that such interruption followed upon an
adjudication of bankruptcy resulting from the unsuccessful conduct of its business affairs, and did not go back of
the adjudication to find and give detailed consideration to
the particular causes of the failure. Appellants contend
that this was error, and for a rule requiring that in every
case of this sort the Commission must trace out the chain
of causation and weigh the bankrupt's judgment against
the pressures of circumstance. We sustain the Commission in construing the statute as not requiring it to go back
of the bankruptcy adjudication to search for ultimate
causes.
How far one by an exercise of free will may determine
his general destiny or his course in a particular matter
and how far he is the toy of circumstance has been debAted
through the ages by theologians, philosophers, and scientists. Whatever doubts they have entertained as to the

80

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

matter, the practical business of government and administration of the law is obliged to proceed on more or less
rough and ready judgments based on the assumption that
mature and rationql persons are in control of their own
conduct. Certainly that assumption must be made in
reference to a corporation such as the applicant. Society,
in creating a corporation, vesting its management in a
board of directors, granting it large powers and not inconsiderable immunities, can hardly allow that its business
affairs are at any time out of the control of those whose
duty it is to Conduct them. The Bankruptcy Act states
that even an involuntary adjudication results only from
some "act of bankruptcy," defined upon the clear assumption that it is within the bankrupt's control.' Whether
or not this assumption squares with philosophical doctrine, or even with reality,5 is not for our determination.
The Commission, and the courts too, must get on with the
application of the federal statutes without waiting to
settle the verity of the philosophical asstimptions on which
theyrest.
The Commission was warranted in holding as matter of
law that the interruption because of bankruptcy was not
one over which the applicant had no control within the
meaning of the Motor Carrier Act. The complexity of the
chain of causation shown in this case makes it an apt
illustration of the impracticability of any other rule.
'The following are defined as acts of bankruptcy: (1) fraudulent
conveyances or concealments of property, (2) transfers while insolvent, (3) permitting, while insolvent, a creditor's lien to attach to
property through legal proceedings, (4) assignments for the benefit
of creditors, (5) permitting or procuring, while insolvent in either
the bankruptcy or equity sense, a receiver to be appointed to take
charge of the bankrupt's property, (6) admissions in writing of inability to pay debts and Of willingness to be adjudged a bankrupt.
§ 3a of the Act of July 1, 1898, as amended, 11 U. S. C. § 21 (a).
5
Treiman, Acts of Bankruptcy: A Medieval Concept in Modern
Bankruptcy Law, 52 Harvard Law Review 189.

GREGG -CARTAGE CO. v. U. S.
74

Opinion of the Court.

When it found itself unable to meet its obligations,
Gregg arranged a receivership in the state court, securing
the appointment of its own counsel as receiver. Only the
one creditor which filed the bill appears to have been
consulted. Thus, the petitioner not only arranged deliberately to commit an act of bankruptcy, but it managed
the affair in a manner not unlikely to provoke the unconsulted creditors to file a petition in bankruptcy-presumably considerqd their best or only means of obtaining the
disinterestedness in the administration of the estate to
which they were entitled.
The claims which, together with the advance payment
of premiums for new insurance, constituted the immediate
cause of Gregg's financial difficulties, were, as we have
said, of various sorts. Bulking largest were those for
personal injuries and property damage, which numbered
approximately 175 and in their face amount aggregated
approximately $200,000. Their precise nature is not
disclosed by the record, and conjecture in this regard
is made particularly difficult by Gregg's method of doing
business-which was to avail itself entirely of "owneroperator" vehicles for its "over-the-road" services.
Doubtless these claims were founded almost entirely upon
the negligent operation of vehicles for which Gregg was
in some way held legally responsible. We are not informed whether such responsibility rested upon the principle of respondeat superior,express contractual assumption, or both. The rest of the claims, upon which about
$15,000 were paid, were for cargo loss and damage. The
record does not show whether payment was made solely
to retain the good will of shippers, or also to satisfy the
applicant's legal liability-which would have rested upon
its legal control of the cargo.
It is true that Gregg would not have had to bear the
burden of most, if not all, of the claims, had it not been for

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion-of the Court.

316 U. S.

some unfortunate experiences with insurance companies.
Its major misfortune was the failure of the company in
which it carried its insurance against liability for personal
injury and property damage. What consideration actuated the choice of the particular insurance company, and
what caution, if any, was observed in selecting it, do not
appear. It either misunderstood the coverage of its other
policies or purchased policies not specifically comprehensive, and found itself taking care of very substantial claims
for cargo loss because of "technical" insurers' defenses
which seem to have been sufficient under the Ohio law.
In ahy event, the choices of insurers, as well of its
servants and operators, were Gregg's own-as was the
judgment which was exercised with regard to the numerous other phases of its business bearing upon its solvencyand the final product could not have been a matter over
which it had no control.
Furthermore, the interruption of service was the deliberate act of those who for the time being stood in the
,position of applicant and owned its rights. During the
interval betw'een receivership and. sale of these rights to
Northeastern, we take it that the beneficial interest therein vested in the creditors and the legal title in the receiver
or trustee. The federal receiver or trustee could have been
authorized to conduct tle business of the bankrupt for
a limited period, if in the best interests of the estate. § 2
of the Act of July 1, 1898, as amended, 11 U. S. C. § 11.
The creditors and their representatives, however, failed
to seek such authority, evidently regarding the rights,
which later sold for $850, not worth the expense and risk
of continuing business. It is the purchaser Northeastern,
organized to acquire the "grandfather" rights, and to an
undetermined extent identified with the management of
the bankrupt," which, having bought these rights in this
The Commission found that Northeastern was incorporated to
take over the bankrupt's rights and business, that the former president

GREGG CARTAGE CO. v. U. S.
74

Opinion of the Court.

state of voluntarily suspended animation, seeks to revive
them. But it cannot say that it takes the rights free of
any impairment by the voluntary suspension of operation
by the then owner from whom it derives title.
The applicant for a certificate under the grandfather
clause seeks to exempt his further operations from scrutiny as to public convenience and necessity. If he is able
to meet those tests, he may be authorized to operate, even
if he never had grandfather rights, or if those he once had
have been lost. As the Motor Carrier Act is remedial, and
the grandfather clause confers a special privilege, the
proviso defining exemptions is to be held to extend only
to carriers plainly within its terms. McDonald v.
Thompson, 305 U. S. 263, 266.
In its opinion the Commission stated that "it is useless
to speculate upon the question whether the 'grandfather'
right expired before or after the sale." This we understand to mean that, having determined that the cessation
of operations was not a matter over which Gregg "had no
control," the Commission was of opinion that by the time
of the sale the cessation of operations was of sufficient
duration-at least 69 days-to establish that Gregg had
not been "in... operation since" June 1, 1935, within the
meaning of § 206 (a). This was a reasonable conclusion,
especially since any substantial interruption of one carrier's service tends to result in expansion of other facilities
to meet the continuing needs of shippers, and thus to
cause overcrowding if the suspended service is resumed.
Finally, appellants claim to be entitled to relief from
prejudice said to have resulted from delay of the Commission in acting on Gregg's application made under § 206
of Gregg is the new company's general freight agent, and the former
superintendent of transportation is a stockholder of the new company;
and that "other connections, if any, between the companies through
their respective officials and employees cannot be determined from
the records."

84

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

316 U. S.

(a) on February 12, 1936. They point out that, had the
Commission acted at once, a certificate would have issued,
thus conferring the benefits of § 212 (a). But by its
terms § 212 (a) is applicable only where a certificate has
already issued; and, being a section of general applicability, at least for present purposes, it has no analogical
bearing upon the construction of the specific provision
relating to interruptions of service made in § 206 (a). The
delay in passing upon the application was considerable
and regrettable, as the Commission acknowledged, but
it does not seem to have been arbitrary or the result of any
deliberate discrimination, nor, in view of the magnitude of
the Commission's task, unreasonable. The Commission
had nearly 90,000 applications to pass upon under § 206
(a), and of course could not have been expected to pass
upon them simultaneously. It is not within our province
to remedy inequalities necessarily incident to the administration of the statute.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE DouGL~s, dissenting:
I cannot believe that experts of the subject-say,
referees charged with the duties of administering the
bankruptcy law-would conclude that every bankruptcy
arose without exception from conditions which were withThis reads in part as follows: "That no such certificate, permit, or
license shall be revoked (except upon application of the holder) unless
the holder thereof willfully fails to comply, within a reasonable time,
not less than thirty days, to be fixed by the Commission, with a lawful order of the Commission, made as provided in section 204 (d),
commanding obedience to the provision of this part, or to the rule or
regulation of the Commission thereunder, or to the term, condition,
or limitation of such certificate, permit, or license, found by the Commission to have been violated by such holder." 49 U. S. C. § 312 (a).
Originally the period was 90 days. By an amendment of June 29,
1938, 52 Stat. 1239, it was reduced to the present 30 days.

GREGG CARTAGE CO. v. U. S.
74

DouGLAs, J., dissenting.

in the "control" of the bankrupt in any accepted meaning
of the word. Nor do I think that that view would be
taken in case of receiverships. Yet that is the irrebuttable presumption which the Commission has created in
this type of case. Congress did not create it. Congress
merely provided that this class of carrier had a right to
the statutory grant on a showing, inter alia, that it was in
"bona fide operation as a common carrier by motor vehicle on June 1, 1935" and "has so operated since that
time" except as to "interruptions of service over which
the applicant or its predecessor in interest had no control." Motor Carrier Act of 1935, § 206 (a); 49 U. S. C.
§ 306 (a). I would have supposed that the question of
"control" was "an issue of fact to be determined by the
special circumstances of each case." Rochester Telephone Corp. v. United States; 307 U. S. 125, 145. That
would mean that "So long as there is warrant in the record for the judgment of the expert body it must stand."
Id. pp. 145-146. But that is quite different from giving
the word "control" a construction which prevents a person from showing under any circumstances that the
events which led to his business disaster were not subject
to his "control." On the one hand, the Commission rules
that interruptions of service owing to floods,' snow,' unsafe' or impassable 4 roads, highway construction,'
droughts which destroy a carrier's chief source of business,6 ill health, ' strikes,8 or the illegal action of govern'Waltz Transportation, Inc., 10 M. C. C. 30, 33.
'Lewis McKay, 4,M. C. C. 93, 94.
'Edwards Motor Transit Co., Inc., 2 M. C. C. 73, 74.
'Inter-Carolinas Motor Bus Co., 21 M. C. C. 633, 635; Walter
Stages, Inc., 24 M. C. C. 451, 454.
'Magee Truck Lines, Inc., 28 M. C. C. 386, 389.
'Barnes Truck Co., Inc., 24 M. C. C. 465, 467.
'H. Bruce Blackburn, 20 M. C. C. 747, 748-749.
'Motor Freight Express, 26 M. C. C. 374, 375; Transamerican
Freight Lines, Inc., 28 M. C. C. 493, 502.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
DOUGLAS, J.,

dissenting.

316 U. S.

mental authorities 9 constitute grounds for holding that

an interruption of service is beyond an applicant's "control." But similar misfortunes of a purely accidental
character which affect financial stability and end in bankruptcy or receivership are held as a matter of law to be
subject to the carrier's "control."
The distortion which that interpretation involves is
well illustrated by this case. There was evidence tending to show the following: During the year 1936 the applicant was insured against public liability and property
damage by the Central Mutual Insurance Co. Hearing
rumors that Central Mutual was in financial difficulties
and was not paying claims, applicant dropped its policy
in December 1936 and placed its insurance with another
company. On January 11, 1937, Central Mutual was
adjudged a bankrupt and ceased payment of all claims.
In the fall of 1937, applicant was forced to pay several
substantial damage claims arising from accidents during
the period when its insurance policy was in effect with
Central Mutual. These payments seriously impaired
its working capital. Furthermore, applicant was confronted with approximately 175 additional claims for personal injury and property damage. These were estimated at about $200,000 and arose during the period
when applicant was insured by Central Mutual. Applicant settled some of these claims. It was impossible,
however, to satisfyi the demands of all of these claimants.
Receivership followed and on its heels came bankruptcy.
There is not the slightest evidence in this record of any
negligence, dereliction, or mismanagement on the part of
applicant. It is undisputed that its failure was due to
the failure of its insurer. And there is no evidence in this
record that it did not exercise due care in the selection
of that insurer. It would indeed be ironical to cast a
°W. H. Tompkins Co., 29 M. C. C. 359, 362.

GREGG CARTAGE CO. v. U. S.
74

87

Doikis, J., dissenting.

presumption against the applicant on that score when the
insurance policy presumably was accepted by the Commission, and under its regulations promulgated pursuant
to §§ 211 (c)and 215 of the Act (49 U. S. C. §§ 311 (c)
and 315) had to be "approved" by it.1" Federal Register
(1936) Vol. 1, p. 1163, Rule 1. And see 49 Code of
Federal Regulations, Pt. 174, § 174.1.
An applicant carries the burden of establishing his right
to the statutory grant which is contained in the "grandfather" clause. Alton R. Co. v. United States, 315 U. S.
15. But he should not be met at the threshold with a conclusive presumption against him, unless Congress has
clearly indicated that in the circumstances of his case
he has no right even to undertake the burden of proof.
If Congress had desired to eliminate all applicants whose
continuous service was interrupted by bankruptcy or receivership, I believe it would have said so. As stated by
Commissioner Lee in his dissenting opinion (10 M. C. C.
p. 263): "If such interruptions in service are to be construed as putting an end to 'grandfather' rights of carriers, whose applications therefor have not been determined, then, where such a carrier goes into receivership
or bankruptcy, and such an interruption occurs, it would
be impossible for the carrier to come out of receivership
and resume operations; it could not effect a composition
or an arrangement with its creditors and resume operations; if a corporation, it could not be reorganized under
the corporate reorganization provisions of the Bankruptcy
Act, and creditors could realize nothing from 'grandfather'
rights, however valuable." Such a wholesale destruction
of operating rights should not be readily or lightly inferred. Operating rights are the very life of any business.
Without them this business certainly has no more than
scrap value.
10And see Federal Register, op.'cit., Rule IX; 49 Code of Federal
Regulations, Pt. 174, § 174.9.

88

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

316 U. S.

Great deference is owed a commission's interpretation
of the law which it enforces, especially where the meaning of the statutory language, generally or in specific application, gains body and flavor from the content of the
highly specialized field in which the expert body works.
See Shields v. Utah Idaho Central R. Co., 305 U. S. 177;
Sunshine Anthracite Coal Co. v. Adkins, 310 U. S. 381;
Gray v. Powell, 314 U. S. 402; Alton R. Co. v. United
States, supra. But that is quite different from acceding
to the suggestion that the non-technical word "control"
may be interpreted in a way which goes against all human
experience and which does violence to its ordinary and
accepted meaning. In this connection it should be noted
that, if the misfortune which ended in bankruptcy or
receivership was not subject to the carrier's "control,"
then an interruption of service made by the trustee or
receiver cannot be attributed to him. Once the court acquires jurisdiction over the estate, the affairs of the business are in its hands, not the debtor's.
Congress has provided that those who attained a position in the competitive transportation system should be
allowed to retain the fruits of their struggle. Whether
that policy was wise or unwise is not for us to appraise.
But .we should not permit those statutory grants to be
whittled away on the basis of technical and legalistic
grounds which find no expression in the statute, however
much the administrative chore may be alleviated. If the
services of a carrier have been interrupted by bankruptcy
or receivership, his burden of proving that that default
was not subject to his "control" may be onerous. Perhaps in most cases 'he could not maintain it. But he
should be given the opportunity to do so. It is hard for
me to imagine a clearer case where he probably could
succeed than this one. Yet before we passed on that
issue, as the opinion of the Court undertakes to do, we
should remand the case to the Commission. For it made

PRUDENCE CORP. v. GEIST.
74

Statement of the Case.

no findings on that issue but invoked an irrebuttable presumption which would automatically foreclose in all cases
an opportunity to be heard on the real cause of the bankruptcy or receivership.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK

and MR. JUSTICE BYRNES join in

this dissent.
PRUDENCE REALIZATION CORP. v. GEIST,
TRUSTEE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 757.

Argued April 1, 1942.-Decided April 27, 1942.

1. Under §§ 77B (f) (1) and 65 (a) of the Bankruptcy Act, and the
equitable principles governing bankruptcy proceedings, an insolvent
defaulting guarantor of certificates of participation in a mortgage,
who is also the owner of a part of the mortgage indebtedness, is
entitled to share pro rata in the distribution of the proceeds of the
mortgage, in a § 77B reorganization. P. 93.
2. A rule asserted to have been established by decisions of the New
York Court of Appeals, to the effect that one who guarantees payment of certificates representing undivided interests in a mortgage,
which are sold to investors, thereby impliedly agrees that any claim
of his own in the mortgage indebtedness shall be subordinated to
those of other certificate holders, is to be taken as a rule of state
law governing relative rights of claimants in a state liquidation, but
is inapplicable in federal bankruptcy proceedings. P. 93.
Nothing decided in Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins, 304 U. S. 64, requires
a court of bankruptcy to apply sucl a local rule governing the
liquidation of insolvent estates. The Bankrutcy Act prescribes its
own criteria for distribution to creditors. P. 95.
122 F. 2d 503, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 314 U. S. 606, to review the affirmance of an
order of the District Court directing that the petitioner
should not share in the proceeds of the mortgage until
other owners of undivided interests in the mortgage indebtedness were paid in full.

