STANDARD OIL 0.

v. JOHNSON.

Counsel for Parties.

STANDARD OIL COMPANY OF CALIFORNIA v.
JOHNSON, TREASURER OF CALIFORNIA.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF CALIFORNf.

No. 1125. Argued May 5, 1942.-Decided June 1, 1942.
1. Where the validity of a state statute, as construed, was drawn in
question in the state court on the ground of its being repugnant to
the Constitution of the United States, an appeal lies under Jud. Code
§ 237 (a) from a judgment of the state court sustaining the statute.
P. 482.
2. In upholding a state tax on sales of motor fuel, as applied to sales
to United States Army Post Exchanges, under a state statute containing an express exception of fuel sold to the Government of the
United States or any department thereof, the state court construed
the exception as inapplicable because, as it concluded upon a consideration of the relation of such Exchanges to the United States, they
were not instrumentalities or agencies of the United States. Held,
a decision of a federal question by which this Court is not bound
upon appeal. P. 483.
3. Army Post Exchanges are established and operated under regulations
of the Secretary of War, authorized by Acts of Congress, and having
the force of law. P. 483.
4. Army Post Exchanges are arms of the Federal Government-integral
parts of the War Department partaking of its immunity under the
Federal Constitution and statutes. P. 485.
5. Since there is no way of knowing whether the California Supreme
Court would have construed the Act in question as applicable to Post
Exchanges if it.had correctly understood their federal status, a determination of the constitutionality of such application is not called for
by the present record; and the case is therefore remanded to that court
for further proceedings. P. 485.
19 Cal. 2d 104, 119 P. 2d 329, reversed.
APPEAL from the affirmance of a judgment against the oil
company in an action to recover a tax payment.

Mr. Francis R. Kirkham, with whom Messrs. Felix T.
Smith and Sigvald Nielson were on the brief, for appellant.
Mr.AdrianA. Kragen,Deputy Attorney General of California, with whom Messrs.Earl Warren,Attorney General,

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

and H. H. Linney, Assistant Attorney General, were on the
brief, for appellee.
Solicitor General Fahy, Assistant Attorney General
Clark, Judge Advocate General Myron C. Cramer, and
Messrs. Sewall Key, Arnold*Raum, Alvin J. Rockwell, and
Fred W. Llewellyn filed a brief on behalf of the United
States, as amicus curiae, urging dismissal of the appeal.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.
The California Motor Vehicle Fuel License Tax Act'
imposes a license tax, measured by gallonage, on the
privilege of distributing any motor vehicle fuel. Section
10 states that the Act is inapplicable "to any motor vehicle
fuel sold to the government of the United States or any
department thereof for official use of said government."
The appellant, a "distributor" 2 within the meaning of the
Act, sold gasoline to the United States Army Post Exchanges in California. The State levied a tax, and the
appellant paid it under protest. The appellant then filed
this suit in the Superior Court of Sacramento County
seeking to recover the payment on two grounds: (1) that
sales to the Exchanges were' exempt from tax under § 10;
(2) that, if construed and applied to require payment of
the tax on such sales, the Act would impose a burden upon
instrumentalities or agencies of the United States contrary to the Federal Constitution. Holding against the
appellant on both grounds, the trial court rendered judgment for the State. The Supreme Court of California
affirmed. 19 Cal. 2d 104, 119 P. 2d 329. Since validity
of the state statute as construed was drawn in question on
'Cal. Stats. 1923, pp. 572, 573, 574; 1927, p. 1309; 1933, pp. 1636,

1637; 1937, p. 2219.

"Section 7 of the Act provides: "For the purposes of this act all
motor vehicle fuel sold, donated, consigned for sale, bartered or used
shall be deemed to be distributed..

.

STANDARD OIL CO. v. JOHNSON.
481

Opinion of the Court.

the ground of its being repugnant to the Constitution, we
think the case is properly here on appeal under § 23 (a)
of the Judicial Code.
Since § 10 of the California Act made the tax inapplicable "to any motor vehicle fuel sold to the government
of the United States or any department thereof," it was
necessary 'for the Supreme Court of California to determine whether the language of this exemption included,
sales to post exchanges. If the court's construction. of
§ 10 of the Act had been based purely on local law, this
construction would have been conclusive, and we should
have to determine whether the statute so construed and
applied is repugnant to the Federal Constitution. But
in deciding that post exchanges were not "the government
of the United. States or any department thereof," the court
did not rely upon the law of California. On the contrary,
it relied upon its determination concerning the relationship between post exchanges and the Government of the
United States, a relationship which is controlled by federal
law. For post exchanges operate under regulations of.
the Secretary of. War pursuant to federal authority.
These regulations and the practices under them establish
the relationship between the post exchange and the
United States Government, and together with the relevant statutory and constitutional provisions from which
they derive, afford the data upon which the legal status
of the post exchange may be determined. It was upon a
determination of a federal question, therefore, that the
Supreme Court of California rested its conclusion that,
by § 10, sales to post exchanges were' not exempted from
the tax. Since this determination of a federal question
was by a state court, we are not bound by it. We proceed
to consider whether it is correct.
On July 25, 1895, the Secretary of War, under authority
of Congressional enactments promulgated regulations
816 Stat. 315, 319; 18 Stat. 337.

484

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Ouinion of the Court.

.316 U.S.'

providing for the establishment of post exchanges.' These
regulations have since been amended from time to time
and the exchange has become a regular feature of Army
'posts. That the establishment and control of post exchanges have been in accordance with regulations rather
than specific statutory directions.does not alter their status,
for authorized War Department regulations have the force
of law.
Congressional recognition that the activities of post exchanges are governmental has been frequent. Since 1903,8
'Congress has repeatedly made subtantial appropriations to
be expended under the direction of the Secretary of War
for construction, equipment, and maintenance of suitable
buildings for post exchanges. In 1933 and 1934, Congress
ordered certain moneys derived from-disbanded exchanges
to be handed over to the Federal Treasury." And in 1936,
Congress gave consent to state taxation of gasoline sold
by or through post exchanges, when the gasoline was not
for the exclusive use of the United States.8
The commanding officer c f an Army Post, subject t6 the
regulations and the commanO of his own superior officers,
has complete authority to establish and maintain an exchange. He details a post, exchange officer to manage its
affairs. This pfficer and the commanding officers of the
various company units make up a council which supervises exchange activities. None of these officers receives
any compensation other than his regular salary. The object of the exchanges is to provide convenient and reliable
sources where soldiers can obtain their ordinary needs at

'G. 0. 46, Hdqrs.. of the Army.
"United States v. Eliason,16 Pet. 291, 302; Gratiotv. United States,
4 How. 80, 117-118.
*32 Stat. 927, 938.
' 47 Stat. 1571, 1573 ; 48 Stat. 1224, 1229. See Hearings, House, War
Department Appropriation Bill, 1934, 72d Cong., 2d Sess., 648.
'49 Stat. 1519, 1521, amended by 54 Stat. 1059, 1060-1061.

-

STANDARD OIL CO. v. JOHNSON.
481

485

Opinion of the Court.

the lowest possible prices. Soldiers, their families, and'
civilians employed on military posts here and abroad can
buy at exchanges. The Government assumes none of the
financial obligations of the exchange. But government
officers, under government regulations, handle and are responsible for all funds of the exchange which are obtained
from the companies or detachments composing its membership. Profits, if any, do not go to individuals. They
are used to improve the soldiers' mess, to provide various
types of recreation, and in general to add to the pleasure
and comfort of the troops.
From all of this, we conclude that post exchanges as now
operated are arms of the Government deemed by it essential for the performance of governmental functions. They
are integral parts of the War Department, share in fulfilling the duties entrusted to it, and partake of whatever
immunities it may have under the Constitution and federal statutes. In concluding otherwise,. the Supreme
Court of California was in error.
Whether the California Supreme Court would have construed the Motor Vehicle Fuel License Act as applicable to
post exchanges if it had decided the issue of legal status
of-post exchanges in accordance with this opinion, we have
no way of knowing. Hence, a determination here of the
constitutionality of such an application of the Act is not
called for by the state of the record. Cf. Minnesota v.
National Tea Co., 309 U. S. 551, 557. Accordingly, we reverse the judgment and remand the cause to the court
below for further proceedings not inconsistent with this
opinion.
Reversed.

