PRUDENCE CORP. v. GEIST.
74

Statement of the Case.

no findings on that issue but invoked an irrebuttable presumption which would automatically foreclose in all cases
an opportunity to be heard on the real cause of the bankruptcy or receivership.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK

and MR. JUSTICE BYRNES join in

this dissent.
PRUDENCE REALIZATION CORP. v. GEIST,
TRUSTEE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 757.

Argued April 1, 1942.-Decided April 27, 1942.

1. Under §§ 77B (f) (1) and 65 (a) of the Bankruptcy Act, and the
equitable principles governing bankruptcy proceedings, an insolvent
defaulting guarantor of certificates of participation in a mortgage,
who is also the owner of a part of the mortgage indebtedness, is
entitled to share pro rata in the distribution of the proceeds of the
mortgage, in a § 77B reorganization. P. 93.
2. A rule asserted to have been established by decisions of the New
York Court of Appeals, to the effect that one who guarantees payment of certificates representing undivided interests in a mortgage,
which are sold to investors, thereby impliedly agrees that any claim
of his own in the mortgage indebtedness shall be subordinated to
those of other certificate holders, is to be taken as a rule of state
law governing relative rights of claimants in a state liquidation, but
is inapplicable in federal bankruptcy proceedings. P. 93.
Nothing decided in Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins, 304 U. S. 64, requires
a court of bankruptcy to apply sucl a local rule governing the
liquidation of insolvent estates. The Bankrutcy Act prescribes its
own criteria for distribution to creditors. P. 95.
122 F. 2d 503, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 314 U. S. 606, to review the affirmance of an
order of the District Court directing that the petitioner
should not share in the proceeds of the mortgage until
other owners of undivided interests in the mortgage indebtedness were paid in full.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

Mr. Irving L. Schanzer for petitioner.
Mr. Morris A. Marks, with whom Mr. A. Joseph Geist
was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of
the Court.
The question for our decision is whether an insolvent
defaulting guarantor of certificates of participation in a
mortgage, who is also the owner of a part of the mortgage
indebtedness, is entitled to share pro rata in a distribution
of the proceeds of the mortgage in a § 77B bankruptcy
reorganization.
Prudence Company, petitioner's predecessor, and a
wholly owned subsidiary of New York Investors, Inc.,
loaned to Zo-Gale Realty Company $480,000 on its bond
secured by a first mortgage on real estate. In 1925,
Prudence Company put into execution a plan for selling
participation certificates in the mortgage. It assigned
the bond and mortgage without consideration to Prudence
Bonds Corporation, also a wholly owned subsidiary of
New York Investors, Inc. Prudence Bonds in turn lodged
the bond and mortgage with a trust company depositary.
Prudence Company then executed a guaranty of payment of the bond and mortgage, whereupon Prudence
Bonds issued certificates of participation authenticated by
the trust company, and totaling $382,800. It delivered
them, without payment of any consideration, to the Prudence Company which then sold them to investors. The
guaranty of Prudence Company, which was referred to in
the participation certificates, was of payment of the bond
interest when due and of the principal when due or within
eighteen months thereafter.
Each certificate declares that the purchaser is entitled
to an undivided share in the mortgage of a specified
amount equal to the sum paid for it by the original pur-

PRUDENCE CORP. v. GEIST.
89

Opinion of the Court.

chaser. Each provides that the share in the bond and
mortgage represented by it is not subordinate to any other
shares or subject to any prior interest, and each reserves
to Prudence Bonds the right "to be the holder or pledgee
of similar shares" in the bond and mortgage. The mortgage indebtedness was later reduced to $390,000, leaving
an undivided share of $7,200 of which Prudence Company was the equitable owner, for which no participation
certificate had been issued.
In 1938, an order of the bankruptcy court, in which
Prudence Company and Prudence Bonds were then being
reorganized, directed a transfer to Prudence Company of
the $7,200 interest, as part of a settlement and adjustment
of mutual claims between the two companies, and Prudence Company has continued to be the owner of this
share of the mortgage indebtedness. It has also acquired,
by purchase from certificate holders, $816.67 in certificates
of participation in the mortgage.
On foreclosure of a second mortgage on the Zo-Gale
property, Amalgamated Properties, Inc., a wholly owned
subsidiary of Prudence Company, acquired title to the
property from the mortgagor, and later went into a bankruptcy reorganization. Upon approval by the court of a
plan of reorganization of the Zo-Gale certificate issue,
the title to the mortgaged property was transferred to
respondent Geist, as trustee for the benefit of the certificate holders. In confirming the plan for reorganization of Amalgamated, the court reserved for future decision the question whether the Prudence Company was
entitled to payment of its two claims in the mortgage
pro rata with the other certificate holders.
As provided by the reorganization plan of Prudence
Company, petitioner Prudence Realization Corporation
was organized to take over the assets from the trustees
of Prudence Company and to liquidate them for the
benefit of creditors under the direction of the bankruptcy

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

court. Petitioner has thus acquired certificates issued in
the Amalgamated reorganization proceeding, representing the interest of Prudence Company in the Zo-Gale
bond and mortgage. The claims against Prudence Company recognized by its plan of reorganization amounted
to $133,723,000, including its guaranties of mortgages
amounting to $12,523,000; guaranties of bonds issued
by Prudence Bonds for $58,833,000; and guaranties of
mortgage participation certificates issued by Prudence
Bonds (including the Zo-Gale mortgage certificates) for
$50,858,000.
The present proceeding was begun by respondent's petition in the consolidated reorganization of Prudence Company and Amalgamated Properties in the Eastern District
of New York for an order directing that petitioner was not
entitled to any distribution on account of the Prudence
Company's interest in the Zo-Gale mortgage until the
other certificate holders were paid in full. The district
court granted the order, which the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit affirmed. 122 F. 2d 503.
Both courts applied the rule of the New York Court of
Appeals, see Matter of Title & Mortgage Guaranty Co.,
275 N. Y. 347, 9 N. E. 2d 957; Pink v. Thomas, 282 N. Y.
10, 24 N. E. 2d 724; Matter of People (Union Guarantee&
Mortgage Co.), 285 N. Y. 337, 34 N. E. 2d 345, that a
guarantor of mortgage certificates, who also has an interest
in the mortgage, cannot share in the proceeds of its collection until the certificate holders are paid, unless there is a
clear reservation in the certificate of the right of the
guarantor to share on a parity with other certificate holders. The Circuit Court of Appeals by a divided court
held that it was bound to apply the rule announced in
the New York cases cited, which it deemed to be a rule
of construction of the guaranty of the certificates. We
granted certiorari, 314 U. S. 606, because of the importance in bankruptcy administration of the questions
raised.

PRUDENCE CORP. v. GEIST.
89

Opinion of the Court.

The court below recognized the implication of the re.quirement that a plan of reorganization under former
§ 77B (f) (1) of the Bankruptcy Act (see 11 U. S. C.
§ 621 (2)) be one which "is fair and equitable and does
not discriminate unfairly in the case of any class of creditors," see Southern Pacific Co. v. Bogert, 250 U. S. 483,
492; Case v. Los Angeles Lumber Co., 308 U. S. 106, and
that § 65 (a) requires that in liquidations a distribution
of "dividends of an equal per centum" shall be made "on
all allowed claims, except such as have priority or are
secured," see Globe Bank & Trust Co. v. Martin,236 U. S.
288, 305; Moore v. Bay, 284 U. S. 4. It recognized also
that the equity powers of the bankruptcy court may be
exerted to subordinate the claims of one claimant to those
of others of the same class where his conduct in acquiring
or asserting his claim is contrary to established equitable
principles. See Taylor v., StandardGas Co., 306 U. S. 307;
Pepperv. Litton, 308 U. S. 295; In re Bowman Hardware
& Electric Co., 67 F. 2d 792.
But the court found it unnecessary to choose between
such competing considerations, and rested its decision on
the ground that Prudence Company's guaranty of the
certificates was under state law to be interpreted as impliedly agreeing that any claim of its own to the mortgage
indebtedness was to be subordinated to those of other
certificate holders. After referring to cases in which the
New York Court of Appeals had directed such a subordination, the court said (122 F. 2d 505):
"An important issue herein is whether this is primarily a
rule
of the guaranty in the certificates or is
a ruleofofconstruction
administration of insolvent estates which
violates
bankruptcy principles of equal distribution of a bankrupt
estate among creditors. If it is a rule of construction we
would follow it_. . .," citing Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins,
304 U. S. 64. :"And if we thus, found the guarantee to
amount to an actual agreement between two creditors that

94

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U.S.

the claim of one against the debtor should be subordinated
to that of the other, we should give that effect to it ..."
The only evidence of the actual intent of the parties to
which the court referred was the fact that Prudence Company, unlike Prudenc9 Bonds, had not reserved the right
in the certificates to be the holder of "similar shares" in
the bond and mortgage. But there is no contention that
in the Absence of such a provision in the certificates, Prudence Company was noe free to acquire certificates or hold
an interest in the guaranteed mortgage in its own right.
Consequently, its ownership of the $816.67 in certificates
and $7,200 of the uncertificated indebtedness evidences no
actual intention to subordinate those interests in a liquidation. And neither 'the terms of the guaranty nor of the
certificates give any indication of such an intent of the
parties.
The court arrived at its conclusion that the Prudence
Company had agreed to subordinate its claims, not from
an examination of the relevant documents read in the light
of the surrounding circumstaices, except as we have noted,
but from its reading and application of the opinions of
the New York Court of Appeals. These recognize that the
guarantor of a mortgage, who is also a part owner of it, is
free to stipulate that he may share in a liquidation on an
equal footing with other owners of the mortgage despite
his default on his guaranty, and that effect will be given
to such a stipulation. See Matter of Title & Mortgage
Guaranty Co., supra, 352; Pink v. Thomas, supra, 12;
Matter of People (Union Guarantee & Mortgage Co.),
supra, 343. On the other hand, some of them have found
visible evidence, in the terms of the certificates, of an
actual intention of the parties to subordinate the guarantor's interest. To that extent they are inapplicable to
the certificates in this case, which afford no such evidence.
See Matter of Title & Mortgage Guaranty Co., supra,
355; Matter of People (Union Guarantee & Mortgage
Co.), supra, 345.

PRUDENCE CORP. v. GEIST.
89

Opinion of the Court.

But so far as the New York cases, without evidence of
the actual intent of the parties, subordinate the guarantor
on grounds of "presumed intention," or "the existence of
special equities," or the "natural equities" involved, Title
Guarantee & Trust Co. v. Mortgage Commission, 273
N. Y. 415, 426, 7 N. E. 2d 841; Matter of Title & Mortgage Guaranty Co., supra, 355; Pink v. Thomas, supra,.
12; Matter of People (Union Guarantee & Mortgage
Co.), supra, 343; Matter of Lawyers' Title & Guaranty
Co., 287 N. Y. 264, 272, 39 N. E. 2d 233, we are unable
to say that the rule laid down is other than one of state
law governing the relative rights of claimants in a state,
liquidation. Nothing decided in Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins,
304 U. S. 64, requires a court of bankruptcy to apply such
a local rule governing the liquidation of insolvent estates.
The bankruptcy act prescribes its own criteria for distribution to creditors. In the interpretation and application of federal statutes, federal not local law applies.
See Awotin v. Atlas Exchange Bank, 295 U. S. 209;
Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. v. Martin, 283 U. S. 209, 212213; Board of Comm'rs v. United States, 308 U. S. 343,
349-350; Deitrick v. Greaney, 309 U. S. 190, 200; Royal
Indemnity Co. v. United States, 313 U. S. 289, 296. The
court of bankruptcy is a court of equity to which the
judicial administration of the bankrupt's estate is committed, Securities & Exchange Commission v. U. S.
Realty Co., 310 U. S. 434; 455-457, and it is for that
court-not without appropriate regard for rights acquired
under rules of state law-to define and apply federal
law in determining the extent to which the inequitable
conduct of a claimant in acquiring or asserting his claim
in bankruptcy requires its subordination to other claims
which, in other respects, are of the same class. Cf
Taylor v. Standard Gas Co., supra; Pepper v. Litton,
supra.
But the question remains whether. there is any equity
arising from the Prudence Company's failure to perform

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

its contract of guaranty which a bankruptcy court should
recognize as requiring the subordination of the company's interest in the mortgage to the claims of the
other mortgage creditors. It is a familiar equity rule,
applied by the federal courts in liquidation proceedings
under federal statutes, that a solvent guarantor or surety
of an insolvent's obligation will not be permitted, either
by taking indemnity from his principal or by virtue of
his right of subrogation, to compete with other creditors
payment of whose claims he has undertaken to assure,
until they are paid in full. If the surety were allowed
to prove his own claim before the creditor is paid, he
would to that extent diminish the creditor's dividends
upon his claim, and thus defeat the purpose for which
he had given the indemnity. United States v. National
Surety Co., 254 U. S. 73, 76; Jenkins v. National Surety
Co., 277 U. S. 258; American Surety Co. v. Electric Co.,
296 U. S. 133; Peoples v. Peoples Bros., 254 F. 489; U. S.
Fidelity & Guaranty Co. v. Union Bank & Trust Co., 228
F. 448, 455. For like reasons equity requires the surety
who holds security of the insolvent principal to give the
benefit of it to the creditor for whom he is surety until
the debt is paid. Keller v. Ashford, 133 U. S. 610; see
Chamberlain v. St. Paul & Sioux City R. Co., 92 U. S.
299, 306; Hampton v. Phipps, 108 U. S. 260, 263; 4
Pomeroy, Equity Jurisprudence (5th ed.) § 1419.
But we think the equitable basis for requiring the
surety or guarantor to postpone the assertion of rights
which he derives from or are incidental to his suretyship,
to the rights of creditors whom he has undertaken to
secure, is wanting here. The rights asserted by Prudence
Company in the mortgage are not those of a subrogee;
they were acquired independently of its guaranty. They
are not derived from or an incident to it., Their assertion is in no way inconsistent with any duty or obligation it assumed by its contract of guaranty. By that

PRUDENCE CORP. v. GEIST.
89

Opinion of the Court.

contract the guarantor pledged only its personal obligation for the payment of the certificates. It gave to the
certificate holders no lien upon, or other priority right
in, its interest in the mortgage more than to its other
assets.
Postponement of its rights in the mortgage to those of
the other certificate holders is not justifiable as operating
to avoid circuity of action. The Prudence Company
is not solvent. Its property is being liquidated in bankruptcy, where all the claimants on its present and other
guaranty obligations are entitled to share equally in its
unpledged assets. Denial of the right to prove its claim,
which is an asset in which all of Prudence's creditors are
otherwise entitled to share, will serve only to divert this
asset from all creditors to one class of creditors, the ZoGale certificate holders, and thus give to them the exclusive benefit of a security for which they have not
bargained. Allowance of the Prudence Company's claim
does not involve any breach of its duty, as guarantor.
Nor does it deprive certificate holders of their right to
share in this asset pari passu with the qther creditors, or
of any right, legal or equitable, to which they are entitled
by virtue of their position as guaranteed creditors, See
Hampton v. Phipps, supra; PrairieState Bank v. United
States, 164 U. S. 227; Henningsen v. U. S. Fidelity &
GuarantyCo., 208 U. S. 404.
Since the New York rule, in the absence of an actual
agreement to subordinate the guarantor, is mnerely'a general rule of law governing Iasolvency proceedings, ,it is
not controlling in bankruptcy. And since in the circamstances of the present case we find no agreement and' no
equitable basis for depriving the Prudence Company and
its creditors of the benefits of the usual bankruptcy rule
of equality, the judgment below must be
Reversed.

