CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1941
UNITED STATES v. MALPHURS

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.

No. 558.

Argued March 5, 6, 1942.--Decided April 6, 1942.

Although this Court has jurisdiction under the Criminal Appeals Act
to pass upon the correctness of the order of the District Court in
this case sustaining a demurrer to the indictment on the sole ground
that §§ 3 and 4 of the Hatch Act were inapplicable, the judgment
is vacated and the cause is remanded for consideration by the District
Court of the continued existence and applicability of the statutes,
other than the Hatch Act, referred to in this opinion. P. 3.
41 F. Supp. 817, reversed.

APPEAL under the criminal Appeals Act from a judgment sustaining a demurrer to an indictment.

Mr. Herbert Wechsler argued the cause, and Solicitor
General Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Berge, and
Messrs. Archibald Cox, Louis B. Schwartz, and Herbert
S. Phillipswere on the brief, for the United States.
Messrs. John L. Graham and FrancisP. Whitehair,with
whom Messrs. D. C. Hull, Erskine W. Landis, and J.
Compton French were on the brief, for appellees.
PER CURIAM.

This appeal comes here directly from the District Court
for the Southern District of Florida under the authority of
the Criminal Appeals Act, 34 Stat. 1246, 18 U. S. C. § 682,

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.

2

Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

and § 238 of the Judicial Code as amended, 43 Stat. 936,
938, 28 U. S. C. § 345. In the District Court, a demurrer
to an indictment was sustained on the sole ground that
§§3 and 4 of the Hatch Act, "An Act to prevent pernicious
political activities" approved August 2, 1939, 53 Stat.
1147, set out below,' were inapplicable to a state primary.
Neither the assignment of errors nor the jurisdictional
statement specifies any other statute under which the
indictment might have been found.
Defendants, employees of the Works Progress Administration and a municipal Chief of Police, were indicted
under Count I for threatening, on May 6, 1940, to deprive
a named person of employment, made possible by an Act
of Congress, unless he voted for and supported in the Florida primary, defendants' candidates for various national
and state offices, and under Count II for promising on May
23rd continued and more remunerative employment if that
person did support them. In each count it was alleged
that: "Frank M. Strickland was an employee of the Works
Progress Administration, an agency of the United States
of America, which said agency was administering certain
projects in the said county and was furnishing employment
1

"SEc. 3. It shall be unlawful for any person, directly or indirectly,

to promise any employment, position, work, compensation, or other

benefit, provided for or made possible in whole or in part by any Act of
Congress, to any person as consideration, favor, or reward for any
political activity or for the support of or opposition to any candidate
or any political party in any election.

"Snc. 4.... it shall be unlawful for any person to deprive,
attempt' to deprive, or threaten to deprive, by any means, any person
of any employment, position, work, compensation, or other benefit provided for or made possible by any Act of Congress appropriating funds
for work relief or relief purposes, on account of race, creed, color, or
any political activity, support of, or opposition to any candidate or any
political party in any election."
' It is to be noted that this indictment relates to acts occurring pripr

to the approval of the amendment of July 19, 1940, 54 Stat. 767.

UNITED STATES v. MALPHURS.
Opinion of the Court.
to persons on relief in said county provided for and made
possible in whole or in part by Act of Congress of the
United States, to wit, the Emergency Relief Appropriation
Act of 1939."
In its brief for this Court, the Government contends for
the first time that the language of the Emergency Relief
Appropriation Act of 1939, § 30 (a), 53 Stat. 927, 937, applies sanctions to allegations such as are made in Count II
of the indictment. See also § 30 (b) of that Act and § 3
(a) of the Joint Resolution of February 4, 1939, making an
additional appropriation for work relief for the fiscal year
ending June 30, 1939, 53 Stat. 507, 508. It is obvious that
these sections were not called to the attention of the trial
judge as possibly applicable to the whole indictment.
While we have jurisdiction under the Criminal Appeals
Act to pass upon the correctness of the order entered below, UnitedStates v. Nixon, 235 U. S. 231, we think that it
is advisable to vacate the judgment and remand the case in
its entirety, without discussion of the Hatch Act.' We remand this case for consideration by the District Court of
the continued existence and applicability of the statutes,
other than the Hatch Act, referred to in this opinion.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.

.'Cf. Gaowville v. Brown-Crummer Co., 277 U. S. 54, 60-61:

