342

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Syllabus.

316 U. S.

reinstatement of his insurance and entitled the jury to
pass judgment on them.
Whether Pence was a malingerer or not, disavowing and
then asserting injury and disease as a means of collecting
different benefits from the Government, is not for us to
decide. Suspicion that such was the case does not justify
usurping the jury's function of determining, in the light
of all the evidence, which of Pence's statements were true
and which were false. The case was properly submitted
to the jury. Its verdict, rendered on substantial evidence, should not have been set aside.
MR. JUSTICE BLACx and MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS join in
this dissent.

UNITED STATES

Ex REL. COY
ET AL.

v. UNITED STATES

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 973. Argued May 4, 5, 1942.-Decided May 25, 1942.
1. Where a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals affirms an order
of the District Court denying for want of jurisdiction a motion to
correct a sentence made by the convict after expiration of the term
in which the sentence was imposed, the time allowed for petition to
this Court for a writ of certiorari is governed by Rule XI of the
Rules in Criminal Cases, and is 30 days after the entry of the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals. P. 344.
2. The failure of the Rules in Criminal Cases to fix the time allowed
for appealing such an order of the District Court to the Circuit Court
of Appeals is a casus omissus which left in full force § 8 (c) of the
Judiciary Act of February 13, 1925, 'requiring application for the
allowance of appeals to the Circuit Court of Appeals to be made within three months after the entry of the order appealed from.. P. 345.
124 F. 2d 1019, dismissed.

U. S. EX REL. COY v. UNITED STATES.
342

343

Opinion of the Court.

CERioRAR', post, p. 652, to review a judgment affirming
an order of the District Court, 38 F. Supp. 610, dismissing

a motion to correct a sentence out of term for want of
jurisdiction.
Mr. James E. Fahey for petitioner.
Mr. H. G. Ingraham,with whom Solicitor GeneralFahy
and Assistant Attorney General Berge were on the brief,
for respondents.
PER CURIAM.

In 1937, petitioner was tried and convicted on an indictment charging him with violation of §§ 2 (a) and (b) of
the Act of May 18, 1934, 12 U. S. C. § 588(b), which respectively define the offenses (a) of taking or attempting to
take by force from any person money or property belonging to a bank insured with the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation, and (b), in th e commission of such offense,
assaulting any person, or putting in jeopardy the life of
any person by use of a dangerous weapon.
The first count of the indictment charged the forcible
taking of money of the bank from the person of another.
The second count charged the same taking by use of a
dangerous weapon, and the third alleged a conspiracy of
petitioner with others to commit the offenses' set out in the
first two counts. Petitioner was sentenced to twenty years
imprisonment on count one, and a year and a day on each
of counts two and three, the three sentences to run consecutively. He took no appeal, but two years later moved
in the trial court to set aside the sentence on the first count
on the ground that the offense charged in the first was
included in that charged in the second. The District
Court denied the motion, holding that its jurisdiction of
the cause ended with the term of court in which petitioner
was sentenced 38 F. Supp. 610.

344

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

After the lapse of more than the five days prescribed by
Rule III of the Rules in Criminal Cases, but less than the
three months prescribed by § 8 (c) of the Act of February
13, 1925, 28 U. S. C. § 230, petitioner filed a notice of appeal
and asked leave to appeal in forma pauperis, which the
District Court allowed. The Circuit Court of Appeals
affirmed the order denying petitioner's application "upon
the grounds and for the reasons set forth in the opinion of
the District Judge." 124 F. 2d 1019. We granted certiorari on a petition filed more than thirty days after the
entry of judgment by the court below, and requested counsel, in presenting the case here, to discuss the questions
whether the time for appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals and for petition for certiorari to this Court are governed by the Rules in Criminal Cases, and if not what
statute applies.
Rule XI of the Criminal Rules provides that "Petition to
the Supreme Court of the United States for writ of certiorari to review a judgment of the appellate court shall
be made within thirty (30) days after the entry of the
judgment of that court." If the judgment of the Court of
Appeals is one to which Rule XI applies, the petition for
certiorari was filed too late and we are without jurisdiction.
Petitioner insists that the present proceeding is one not
embraced in the Criminal Rules since they make no
provision governing the appeal from the order of the District Court; that, consequently, certiorari to review the
judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals, as in other
proceedings not within the Criminal Rules, is governed
by § 8 (a) of the Act of February 13, 1925, as amended,
28 U. S. C. § 350, which allows three months for filing the
petition. Cf. Nye v. United States, 313 U. S. 33, 43-44.
The Criminal Rules were promulgated by this Court,
292 U. S. 661, pursuant to the Act of March 8, 1934, 18
U. S. C. § 688, which authorized the Court to adopt "rules

U. S. EX REL. COY v. UNITED STATES.
342

345

Opinion of the Court.

of practice and procedure with respect to any or all proceedings after verdict, or finding of guilt by the court if
a jury has been waived, or plea of guilty, in criminal cases
in district courts of the United States." The statute expressly authorized the Court to "prescribe the times for
and manner of taking appeals and applying for writs of
certiorari." In adopting the rules it was the purpose of
this Court to expedite appeals in criminal proceedings;
and, as declared in its order promulgating them, they were
to apply "in all proceedings" after pleas or verdict or
finding of guilt and "in all subsequent proceedings in such
cases in the United States Circuit Courts of Appeals
. . .and in the Supreme Court of the United States."

The failure to provide in Rule III or elsewhere for appealing an order like the present from the District Court
tor the Circuit Court of Appeals is a casus omissus which
left in full force § 8 (c) of the Judiciary Act of February
13, 1925, 28 U. S. C. § 230, which requires application for
the allowance of appeals to the Circuit Court of Appeals to
be made within three months after the entry of the order
appealed from. But the judgment of the Circuit Court
of Appeals in this case is a judgment in a criminal proceeding after verdict and judgment of conviction, and the petition for certiorari to review the judgment is a "subsequent
proceeding" in such a case to which, Rule XI specifically
applies.
We see no reason for excepting the petition for certiorari
from the thirty-day limitation of Rule XI merely because
the draftsmen omitted to provide in Rule III for an
appeal from the order of the District Court in cases like
the present. On the contrary, since the purpose in adopting the Rules was to expedite criminal appeals, and the
Rules in terms apply to petitions for certiorari in criminal
cases, the express! requirements of Rule XI cannot rightly
be disregarded even though the general purpose was not

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Syllabus.

316 U. S.

made completely effective because of the failure to provide
a short period for appeal from the order of the District
Court. Despite this omission, Rule XI has made the purpose effective in the case of review by certiorari in this
Court.
The writ will accordingly be dismissed for failure to
comply with Rule XI. We have rko occasion to pass on
the question whether the District Court's denial of the
application, on a ground which the Government suggests
was erroneous, will bar a subsequent application to the
District Court for similar relief.
Dismissed.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY CO.

ET AL. V.

UNITED STATES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA.

No. 927.

Argued April 29, 30, 1942.-Decided May 25, 1942.

The Interstate Commerce Commission found that, at certain complaining markets, the railroads absorbed sK-itching charges on competitive
grain shipments (i. e., traffic originating at points served by more
than one railroad), but not on non-competitive or local traffic (originating at points served by only one railroad), while at all other
markets in central-western territory the carriers absorbed the switching charges on both competitive and non-competitive shipments.
This practice, it found, was at variance with the general purpose of
the grain-rate structure to bring about "an adjustment under which
the rates to and from all western markets would be on relatively the
same level, or an adjustment under which the rates to and from the
markets would approximate a mileage parity," and was supported
neither by revenue considerations nor sound transportation factors,
and was unreasonable. Held, that a cease-and-desist order based
upon these findings was within the statutory and constitutional
powers of the Commission. P. 348.
41 F. Supp. 439, affirmed.

