U. S. v. MASONITE CORP.
Syllabus.

258

MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, and MR.
JUSTICE BYRNES dissent for the reasons (1) that here, unlike the situation in United States v. Kales, 314 U. S. 186,
the taxpayer had but a single cause of action and could
have raised every issue with respect to the validity of
the taxes in the earlier suit; (2) that here, unlike the
situation in Sage v. United States, 250 U. S. 33, 38-39,
there had been no intervening legislation which created
rights and lifted the bar of the judgment in the earlier
suit; and (3) that in the earlier suit the United States
became "a party to the judgment as a matter of law"
(Griswold, Res Judicata in Federal Tax Cases, 46 Yale L.
Journ. 1320, 1342), since in these days the presence of the
collector as a defendant who acts "in the line of duty" is
"merely a remedial expedient for bringing the Government
into court." Moore Ice Cream Co. v. Rose, 289 U. S. 373,
383.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK,

UNITED STATES v. MASONITE CORPORATION
ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 723. Argued April 9, 10, 1942.-Decided May 11, 1942.
1. A price-fixing combination of competitors in interstate trade
violates the Sherman Act. P. 274.
2. Acceptance by competitors, without previous agreement, of an invitation to participate in a plan, the necessary consequence of which, if
carried out, will be restraint of interstate "commerce, renders them
liable as conspirators under the Sherman Act. P. 275.
3. The fixing of prices by one member of a group pursuant to express
delegation, acquiescence, or understanding of the others, is no less
illegal than if done by their direct, joint action. P. 276.

266

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Counsel for Parties.

316 U. S.

4. A combination fixing prices in interstate commerce can not be justified by business reasons or by its tendency to increase distribution
of the commodity without increase of price to consumers, or by its
tendency to promote competition between dealers. P. 276.
5. A patent affords no immunity for a monopoly not plainly within
the grant; and the grant can not be extended by contract. P. 277.
6. When a patented article is disposed of to a purchaser, it passes
beyond the monopoly protected by the patent law. P. 277.
7. A determination as to whether a particular disposition of a
patented article exhausts the patent monopoly is not governed
by the form of the transaction but depends upon whether there
has been such a disposition that it may fairly be said the patentee
has received his reward for the use of the article. P. 278.
8. In making such a determination, regard must be had for the
dominant concern of the patent system, viz., promotion of the
progress of science and the useful arts; the. reward to the inventor is secondary and merely a means to an end. P. 278.
9.The scope of the patentee's statutory right to "vend" cannot
be determined by the private law of sales alone. Such rights
must be strictly construed since patents are privileges restrictive
of a free economy. P. 280.
10. Numerous corporations which were in active competition with each
other as dealers in building materials entered into a combination
whereby one of them, which manufactured and sold material called
"hardboard" for which it held a patent, undertook to constitute the
others its del credere agents for the sale of that product through their
respective sales organizations at prices fixed by the patent owner.
Held, that this arrangement went beyond the patent privilege and
violated the Sherman Act. United States v. General Electric Co.,
272 U. S. 476, distinguished. Pp. 280, 282.
40 F. Supp. 852, reversed.
APPEAL from a decree of the District Court which dismissed a bill brought by the United States under the
Sherman Act.
Messrs. Hugh B. Cox and Assistant Attorney General
Arnold, with whom Solicitor General Fahy and Messrs.

Samuel S. Isseks, Archibald Cox, James C., Wilson, and
Marcus A. Hollabaugh were on the brief, for the United
States.
Mr. Charles H. Tuttle, with whom Messrs. Louis
Quarles,FletcherLewis, and HerbertH. Dyke were on the

U. S. v. MASONITE CORP.
265

Opinion of the Court.

brief, for the Masonite Corporation; Mr. Andrew J. Dallstream,with whom Messrs. OscarR. Ewing and William T.
Gossett were on the brief, for the Celotex Corporation;
Mr. William Piel, Jr.was on a brief for the Flintkote Company; Messrs. Horace R. Lamb and Walter F. Kaufman
were on a brief for the Armstrong Cork Company; and
Messrs. John B. Faegre, Timothy N. Pfeiffer, Theodore
Kiendl, Elmer E. Finck, Henry K. Urion, and Charles W.
Briggs were on a brief for the Insulite Company et al.appellees.
MR. JUSTICF, DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The question presented by this case is whether appellees
have combined to restrain trade or commerce in violation
of §§ 1 and 2 of the Sherman Act. 15 U. S. C. §§ 1, 2, 26
Stat. 209. The bill to enjoin the alleged violations of the
Act was dismissed by the District Court (40 F. Supp. 852)
on the authority of United States v. General Electric Co.,
272 U. S.476. The case is here on appeal. 15 U. S. C.
§ 29, 32 Stat. 823, 36 Stat. 1167; 28 U. S. C. § 345, Judicial
Code, § 238.
The appellees are Masonite Corporation, Celotex Corporation, Certain-Teed Products Corporation, JohnsManville Sales Corporation, Insulite Company, Flintkote
Company, National Gypsum Company, Wood Conversion
Company, Armstrong Cork Company, and Dant & Russell, Inc. Each is engaged either in manufacturing and
selling building materials, or in selling building materials
manufactured by others. All maintain selling organizations and to a large extent compete in the same markets.
As we shall see, some have competing patents, though
others do not. Masonite is a manufacturer and distributor of hardboard. Hardboard-a homogeneous, hard,
dense, grainless, synthetic board-is made from wood
chips. It has a high tensile strength, low water absorption and a density that ranges from 30 to 60 lbs. per

2W8

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

cubic foot. It is used in the building industry as wallboard, panelling, flooring, ceilings and forms into which
concrete is poured. It also has numerous industrial uses.
Masonite began its production of hardboard in 1926 and
distributed it through its own selling organization. Between March 30, 1926 and March 20, 1928, four patents
were issued to it, the claims of which covered both hardboard and the processes for making it. Celotex for some
period prior to 1928 had been manufacturing and selling
insulation board-a fibre board which has a density of
less than 30 lbs. per cubic foot and which is softer and
lighter, has a lower tensile strength, and is less resistant
to water than hardboard. In 1928, Celotex announced
that it intended to begin the manufacture of hardboard
from bagasse, a waste product from the grinding of sugar
cane. It began production in 1929. Several patents
were issued to it. Late in 1928, Masonite notified Celotex
that its hardboard infringed Masonite's patents. Various
discussions were had with a view of avoiding patent
litigation by entering into a cross-licensing agreement.
Masonite refused. Celotex continued to manufacture
and sell hardboard. Its production increased from about
800,000 square feet in 1929 to about 12,000,000 square feet
in 1933. It sold its product in competition with Masonite's hardboard and marketed it at prices lower than
Masonite sold its hardboard. In 1931, Masonite instituted suit against Celotex for infringement of one of its
patents. The District Court held Masonite's.patent valid
but not infringed. 1 F. Supp. 494. Masonite appealed.
The Circuit Court of Appeals held that Masonite's patent
was both valid and infringed. 66 F. 2d 451. A petition for
a writ of certiorari was filed in this Court in September,
1933. About that time Masonite renewed negotiations
with Celotex. Those negotiations resulted in a settlement
of the patent litigation and in the execution of the so-called

U. S. v. MASONITE CORP.
265

Opinion of the Court.

"agency" agreement of October 10, 1933 1 -one of the
agreements which is here attacked and which we discuss
later.
. Shortly after the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals in the patent litigation between Celotex and Masonite, the latter company sent the same proposed "agency"
agreement which it had worked out with Celotex to
various of the appellees. Johns-Manville Sales Corporation, National Gypsum Company, Armstrong Newport
Company (predecessor of Armstrong Cork Company),
Hawaiian Cane Products Ltd. (assignor of Certain-Teed
Prodocts Corporation), and Wood Conversion Company
each executed identical agreements with Masonite on
various dates between October 31, 1933 and June 25, 1934.
As each agreement was made, Masonite informed the
other party of the existence and terms of each of the
agreements which Masonite had pre.viously made with the
others. And as each contract was executed, Masonite
sent copies to the companies which had previously executed similar contracts.
Insulite, a manufacturer of insulation board, began producing hardboard in 1930. Its production rose from
about 4,500,000 square feet in, 1932 to about 9,000,000
square feet in 1933, and amounted to over 7,000,000 square
feet annually in 1934 and 1935. There was some evidence
that it was selling hardboard at prices lower than those
of Masonite. It was advised by Masonite in July, 1933,
of possible legal action if it continued to manufacture and
sell hardboard. It received from Masonite a copy of the
proposed "agency" agreement. It formally advised Ma' In 1932, receivers for Celotex were appointed by the United States
District Court for the District of Delaware and an ancillary receiver
was appointed by the United States District Court for the Northern
District of Illinois. The agreement with Masonite was authorized by
those courts.

270.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

sonite of its refusal to enter into any such agreement in
December, 1933. In March, 1934, Masonite filed suit
against a dealer who handled Insulite's hardboard charging infringement of one of Masonite's patents. Insulite
undertook the defense; but, before issue was joined, negotiations between Insulite and Masonite resulted in the
execution in February, 1935 of a so-called "agency" agreement substantially identical with the agreement between
Masonite and Celotex.' At that time, Insulite knew that
Masonite and the other companies had previously executed the other agreements.
Disputes arose between Masonite and the so-called
"agents" concerning the operation and construction of
the "agency" agreements. As a result, the agreements
were modified in 1936. Each agreement when executed
in 1936 was placed in escrow. The escrow agreement was
signed by each of the companies and included the name
*ofeach of the other "agents." Each "agent" knew at that
time that Masonite proposed to make substantially identical agreements with the others. The escrow agreement
provided that it should become effective only when all
the "agents" had agreed to it. The new agreements became effective October 29, 1936. In 1937, Flintkote Company and Dant & Russell, Inc. entered into identical agreements with Masonite. Though their agreements differed
somewhat from the 1936 agreements, they were substantially similar for present purposes. Both companies
knew, when they signed the contracts, that similar
"eagency" agreements existed between Masonite and the
other appellees.
By each of the 1933 agreements, Masonite designated
the other party as an "agent" and appointed" it as a "del
At the time Insulite entered into this agreement with Masonite,
its parent company was in receivership in the United States District
Court for the District of Minnesota. The receivership court author2

ized Insulite -to execute the agreement with Masonite.

U. S. v. MASONITE CORP.
265

Opinion of the Court.

credere factor" to sell Masonite's hardboard products.
The "agent" expressly acknowledged the validity of Masonite's hardboard patents so long as the agreement remained in force. The "agent" agreed to promote the sale of
Masonite hardboards. Masonite agreed to manufacture
designated hardboard products in specified sizes and to
.ship on orders and specifications from the "agent" to
any place within the continental United States or Hawaii.
Masonite agreed to designate from time to time the minimum selling price and the maximum terms and conditions
of sale at which the "agent" might sell Masonite's products.
The list prices and terms of sale were to be the minimum
prices and maximum terms of sale at which Masonite was
either offering or making sales to its customers. The right
to change the list prices and terms of sale was vested
solely in Masonite and might be exercised on 10 days'
notice. It was agreed that Masonite was bound to adhere
to the prices, and terms and conditions of sale which it
fixed for its "agents." In case the "agent" sold for less
than the minimum price, it was obligated to pay liquidated
damages at a specified rate. On direct shipments to the
"agent," the hardboards "shall be received and held on consignment" and "title thereto shall remain" in.Masonite
until sold by the "agent." The minimum prices were
f. o. b. Masonite's factory, the "agent" paying freight and
transportation costs, and sales and other taxes. The
"agent" also agreed at its expense to carry insurance on
all products consigned to it. The "agent's" compensation
was fixed by way of specified commissions on each sale.
The "agent" was prohibited from making sales (except
for off-sized boards) to any person other than specified
classes. Those provisions permitted the "agent" to sell
only to the construction industry, the industrial market
being reserved for Masonite. The "agent" agreed to compensate Masonite by advancing one-half of the difference
between the list price and the agent's discount within 20

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

days after the close of the month in which the order was
hipped, and the balance within 20 days after the close of
i e month in which the products were sold by the "agent"
to its customers. In case of direct shipments by Masonite
to the customers of the "agent," the latter agreed to pay
the entire amount due Masonite within 20 days after
the close of the month in which the shipment was made.
The "agent" agreed not to use the trade name or the trade
marks of Masonite. But the latter agreed to mark, without extra cost, all hardboard with the "agent's" or its customer's name or trade mark, if the "agent" or customers
so desired. And Masonite reserved the right to mark
all products sold by the "agent" with Masonite's patent
notice. Masonite warranted that the products were to
be "good, workmanlike products of a character and quality
equal to that currently manufactured by it and sold to
its customers." Its liability was to be limited to replacing,
without cost to the "agent," any "defective material when
the defect is one of manufacture." The "agent" agreed to
make monthly reports on inventory consigned and on
hand. For any default of the "agent," Masonite could
terminate the arrangement on 30 days' notice. Masonite
could also terminate in case of the bankruptcy, receivership, or insolvency of the "agent," or in case the "agent"
failed to order from Masonite at least 1,500,000 square feet
of hardboard products for any six months' period. The
"agent" could terminate the agreement on six months'
written notice. On termination of the agreement, the
"agent" agreed to "purchase and pay for all products consigned to it and unsold"; or, at the option of Masonite, the
latter might have the products returned to it and refund
to the "agent" all advances made by the "agent" to or
for Masonite's account. Masonite agreed to issue to the
"agent" at its request "a license to manufacture and sell
hard boards" under its patents on specified terms and conditions and on payment of designated sums-$200,000 if

U. S. v. MASONITE CORP.
265

Opinion of the Court.

the license was issued before December 31, 1934, and decreasing amounts if the license was issued at subsequent
dates. Masonite reserved the right to inspect and examine, through certified public accountants, the physical
inventory and the books and records of the "agent" relating to the transactions covered by the agreement.
Masonite agreed to save harmless and protect the "agent"
and its customers against any claim that the hardboards
infringed any patent owned by others than the parties
to the agreement. Provisions for arbitration and for assignment of the agreement were included. And it was
provided that the agreement should continue "during the
life of that one" of specified patents of Masonite "having
the longest term to run, including any reissues, extensions
or improvements thereof," unless the agreement was
sooner terminated by either party. Each agreement had
attached a form of "license" to manufacture and sell, to
be used in case the option license was exercised.3
'There were in some cases supplemental agreements. Thus, Celotex agreed to withdraw its petition for a writ of certiorari in this

Court, Masonite waived an accounting in connection with that infringement suit, and each of the parties agreed to pay its own costs
and expenses incurred in that litigation. In the case of Insulite, Masonite agreed to dismiss the patent suit which it had instituted against
one of Insulite's dealers, without prejudice to the patent claims of
either party. Masonite also agreed to purchase a press from Insulite,
and to lease that press to Insulite on condition that any hardboard
made with it should be of the type theretofore manufactured by Insulite and should not be marketed except "by sale for export only."
Masonite could terminate Insulite's right to manufacture for export
by offering to sell Insulite hardboard for that purpose. This agreement was without prejudice to Masonite's rights or the rights of its
foreign licensees under Masonite's foreign patents.
In 1937, both Insulite and Masonite had applications for patents
relating to hardboard pending in the Patent Office. Certain claims of
these applications were involved in interference proceedings. Masonite was contending that Insulite was infringing its patents in Finland.
By contract, the interference proceedings were settled, in 1938, by
Masonite conceding priority to certain patent claims of Insulite and

274.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

We need not stop to analyze the 1936 agreements.
They contained numerous changes and elaborations. But
they are not important for the purposes of this case,
since the pattern of the relationship between appellees
was fixed in 1933 and its fundamental characteristics
were maintained, not basically altered, in 1936. Nor need
we stop to explore all of the contentions made by the
United States. They include arguments that there has
been an illegal division of markets (Addyston Pipe &
Steel Co. v. United States, 175 U. S. 211); that the
"'agency" agreements have been used to control unlawfully other materials sold in combination with hardboard,
the subject matter of Masonite's patents (Carbice Corp.
v. American Patents Dev. Corp., 283 U. S. 27); that, in
some instances, the combination unlawfully controlled the
price of hardboard "owned" by the "agents" (Ethyl Gasoline Corp. v. United States, 309 U. S. 436); and that the
arrangement included agreements to suppress the use of
patents, contrary to the rule of Standard Sanitary Mfg.
Co. v. United States, 226 U..S. 20, and Standard Oil Co. v.
United States, 283 U. S. 163, 174. But we can put these
contentions to one side without expressing an opinion on
them. For there is one phase of the case which is decisive.
That is the agreement for price-fixing.
But for Masonite's patents and the del credere agency
agreements, there can be no doubt that this is a pricefixing combination which is illegal per se under the Sherman Act. United States v. Trenton Potteries Co., 273
U. S. 392; Ethyl GasolineCorp. v. United States, 309 U. S.
436; United States v. Socony-Vacuum Oil Co., 310 U. S.
150. That is true though the District Court found that,
by Insulite giving Masonite an exclusive royalty-free license under all
of Insulite's patents and patent applications relating to hardboard.
The license excluded Insulite from using the patents. The alleged
infringement of the Finnish patents was settled by Masonite assigning
its Finnish patents to Insulite.

U. S. v. MASONITE CORP.
265

Opinion of the Court.

in negotiating and entering into the first agreements, each
appellee, other than Masonite, acted independently of
the others, negotiated only with Masonite, desired the
agreement regardless of the action that might be taken
by any of the others, did not require as a condition of its
acceptance that Masonite make such an agreement with
any of the others, and had no discussions with any of the
others. It is not clear at what precise point of time each
appellee became aware of the fact that its contract was
not an isolated transaction but part of a larger arrangement. But it is clear that, as the arrangement continued,
each became familiar with its purpose and scope. Here,
as in Interstate Circuit, Inc. v. United States, 306 U. S.
208, 226, "It was enough that, knowing that concerted
action was contemplated and invited, the distributors gave
their adherence to the scheme and participated in it."
The circumstances surrounding the making of the 1936
agreements and the joinder in 1937 of the two other companies leave no room for doubt that all had an awareness of the general scope and purpose of the undertaking.
As this Court stated in the Interstate Circuit case (p.
227): "It is elementary that an unlawful conspiracy may
be and often is formed without simultaneous action or
agreement on the part of the conspirators. . . . Acceptance by competitors, without previous agreement, of an
invitation to participate in a plan, the necessary consequence of which, if carried out, is restraint of interstate
commerce, is sufficient to establish an unlawful conspiracy
under the Sherman Act." And as respects statements
of various appellees that they did not intend to join a
combination or to fix prices, we need only say that they
"must be held to have intended the necessary and direct
consequences of their acts and cannot be heard to say the
contrary." United States v. Patten, 226 U. S. 525, 543.
Nor can the fact that Masonite alone fixed the prices,
and that the other appellees never consulted with Mason-

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

ite concerning them, make the combination any the less
illegal. Prices are fixed when they are agreed upon.
United States v. Socony-Vacuum Oil Co., supra, p. 222.
The fixing of prices by one member of a group, pursuant
to express delegation, acquiescence, or understanding, is
just as illegal as the fixing of prices by direct, joint action.
Id. Since there was price-fixing, the fact that there were
business reasons which made the arrangements desirable
to the appellees, the fact that the effect of the combination may have been to increase the distribution of hardboard, without increase of price to the consumer, or even
to promote competition between dealers, or the fact that
from other points of view the arrangements might be
deemed to have desirable consequences would be no more
a legal justification for price-fixing than were the "competitive evils" in the Socony-Vacuum case.
But it is urged that the arrangement is saved from the
Sherman Act by the General Electric case. The District
Court so held, as we have noted. In that connection,
the District Court found that Masonite's patents on hardboard were "fundamental and basic," that there was no
monopoly or restraint other than the monopoly or restraint granted by the patents, that the parties had an
honest and sincere intent to recognize and exercise the
rights belonging to Masonite under its patents, and that
the agreements constituted a "true agency" to carry out
that purpose. We assume arguendo that the patents in
question, owned by Masonite, are valid. But we do not
agree that the "agency" device saved the arrangement from
the Sherman Act.
Del credere agency has an ancient lineage and has been
put to numerous business and mercantile uses. Chorley,
Del Credere, 45 Law Quarterly Rev. 221; Mechem,
Agency (2d ed.) ch. IV. But, however useful it may be
in allocating isks between the parties and determining
their rights inter se, its terms do not necessarily control

U. S. v. MASONITE CORP.
265

Opinion of the Court.

when the rights of others intervene, whether they be
creditors or the sovereign. See Klaus, Sale, Agency and
Price Maintenance, 28 Col. L. Rev. 441, 443-450. We
assume in this case that the agreements constituted the
appellees as del credere agents of Masonite. But that
circumstance does not prevent the arrangement from running afoul of the Sherman Act. The owner of a patent
cannot extend his statutory grant by contract or agreement. A patent affords no immunity for a monopoly not
fairly or plainly within the grant. We have recently
stated in Morton Salt Co. v. Suppiger Co., 314 U. S. 488,
492, that "the public policy which includes inventions
within the granted monopoly excludes from it all that is
not embraced in the invention. It equally forbids the
use of the patent to secure an exclusive right or limited
monopoly not granted by the Patent Office and which
it is contrary to public policy to grant." Beyond the
limited monopoly which is granted, the arrangements by
which the patent is utilized are subject to the general
law. StandardSanitary Mfg. Co. v. United States, supra;
Boston Store v. American Graphophone Co., 246 U. S. 8,
25; Ethyl Gasoline Corp. v. United States, supra.
We do not have here any question as to the validity of
a license to manufacture and sell, since none of the
"agents" exercised its option to acquire such a license from
Masonite. Hence we need not reach the problems presented by Bement v. National Harrow Co., 186 U. S. 70,
and that part of the GeneralElectric case which dealt with
the license to Westinghouse Company. Rather, we are
concerned here only with a license to vend. But it will
not do to say that, since the patentee has the power to
refuse a license, he has the lesser power to license on his
own conditions. There are strict limitations on the power
of the patentee to attach conditions to the use of the patented article. As Chief Justice Taney said in Bloomer v.
McQuewan, 14 How. 539, 549, when the patented product

278

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

"passes to the hands of the purchaser, it is no longer
within the limits of the monopoly. It passes outside of it,
and is no longer under the protection of the act of Congress." And see Adams v. Burke, 17 Wall. 453; Hobbie v.
Jennison, 149 U. S. 355. In applying that rule, this Court
has quite consistently refused to allow the form into which
the parties chose to cast the transaction to govern. The
test has been whether or not there has been such a disposition of the article that it may fairly be said that the
patentee has received his reward for the use of the article.
Straus v. Victor Talking Machine Co., 243 U. S. 490;
Boston Store v. American Graphophone Co., supra. And
see United States v. Univis Lens Co., ante, p. 241. - In

determining whether or not a particular transaction
comes within the rule of the Bloomer case, regard must be
had for the dominant concern of the patent system. As
stated by Mr. Justice Story in Pennock v. Dialogue, 2 Pet.
1, 19, the promotion of the progress of science and the useful arts is the "main object"; reward of inventors is secondary and merely a means to that end. Or, in the words of
Mr. Justice Daniel in Kendall v. Winsor, 21 How. 322, 329,
"Whilst the remuneration of genius and useful ingenuity
is a duty incumbent upon the public, the rights and welfare
of the community must be fairly dealt with and effectually guarded. Considerations of individual emolument
can never be permitted to operate to the injury of these."
And see Blount Mfg. Co. v. Yale & Towne Mfg. Co., 166
F. 555.
That must be the point of departure for decision on
the facts of cases such as the present one lest the limited
patent privilege be enlarged by private agreements so as
to by-pass the Sherman Act.

Ethyl Gasoline Corp. v.

United States, supra, pp. 456-459. Certainly if the del
credere agency device were given broad approval, whole
industries could be knit together so as to regulate prices
and suppress competition. That would allow the patent

U. S. v. MASONITE CORP.
265

Opinion of the Court.

owner, under the guise of his patent monopoly, not merely
to secure a reward for his invention but to secure protection from competition which the patent law, unaided
by restrictive agreements, does not afford. Doubtless
there is a proper area for utilization by a patentee of a
del credere agent in the sale or disposition of the patented
article. A patentee who employs such an agent to distribute his product certainly is not enlarging the scope
of his patent privilege if it may fairly be said that that
distribution is part of the patentee's own business and
operates only to secure to him the reward for his invention
which Congress has provided. But where he utilizes the
sales organization of another business-a business with
which he has no intimate relationship--quite different
problems are posed since such a regimentation of a marketing system is peculiarly susceptible to the restraints
of trade which the Sherman Act condemns. And when
it is clear, as it is in this case, that the marketing systems
utilized by means of the del credere agency agreements are
those of competitors of the patentee, and that the purpose is to fix prices at which the competitors may market
the product, the device is, without more, an enlargement
of the limited patent privilege and a violation of the Sherman Act. In such a case the patentee exhausts his limited
privilege when he disposes of the product to the del
credere agent. He then has, so far as the Sherman Act
is concerned, no greater rights to price maintenance 4 than
the owner of an unpatented commodity would have. Dr.
'It should be noted in this connection that the Miller-Tydings
Act (50 Stat. 693) which amended § 1 of the Sherman Act so as
to legalize certain types of resale price agreements expressly excluded
"any contract or agreement, providing for the establishment or maintenance of minimum resale prices on any commodity herein involved,
between manufacturers, or between producers, or between wholesalers,
or between brokers, or between factors, or between retailers, or
between persons, firms, or corporations in competition with each
other."

280

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

Miles Medical Co. v. John D. Parks & Sons Co., 220 U. S.
373. Our reasons for that conclusion are as follows:
Congress has provided that a patentee shall have the
"exclusive right to make, use, and vend the invention
or discovery" for a limited period. 46 Stat. 376, 35 U. S. C.
§ 40. But the scope of the right to "vend" cannot be
determined by reference to the private law of sales alone.
Since patents are privileges restrictive of a free economy,
the rights which Congress has attached to them must be
strictly construed so as not to derogate from the general
law beyond the necessary requirements of the patent statute. United States v. Univis Lens Co., Inc., supra. So
far as the Sherman Act is concerned, the result must turn
not on the skill with which counsel has manipulated the
concepts of "sale" and "agency" but on the significance
of the business practices in terms of restraint of trade.
In this case, some of the appellees had patents on hardboard, some did not. But each was tied to 1Iasonite
by an agreement which expressly recognized the validity
of Masonite's patents during the life of the agreement
and which required the distribution of the patented product at fixed prices. In the General Electric case, the
Court thought that the purpose and effect of the marketing plan was to secure to the patentee only a reward for
his invention. We cannot agree that that is true here. In
this case, the price regulation was based on mutual agreement among distributors of competing products, some of
whom had competing patents, as we have noted. None
of these patents, except possibly some held by Celotex,
had been held to conflict with or infringe the Masonite
patents. Nor are we warranted in assuming, in absence
of a definite adjudication, that one grant by the Patent
Office is more valid than another. It is true that the District Court found that, both before and after the agreements in question, the various appellees had been active
in attempting to find a substitute for the patented hard-

U. S. v. MASONITE CORP.
265

Opinion of the Court.

board which would not infringe Masonite's so-called
"basic" patents; that they were not successful in that
search; that the agreements did not discourage or dissuade
them from their efforts to discover or develop non-infringing products; that they were willing and intended to terminate their respective agency agreements whenever it
should become commercially possible to offer a competitive non-infringing product; and that many of the appellees have in fact distributed products which were in many
respects competitive with hardboard. But those circumstances are not controlling.
The power of Masonite to fix the price of the product
which it manufactures, and which the entire group sells
and with respect to which all have been and are now
actual or potential competitors, is a powerful inducement
to abandon competition. The extent to which that inducement in a given case will have or has had the desired
effect is difficult, if not impossible, of measurement. The
forces which that influence puts to work are subtle and
incalculable. Active and vigorous competition then tends
to be impaired, not from any preference of the public
for the patented product, but from the preference of the
competitors for a mutual arrangement for price-fixing
which promises more profit if the parties abandon rather
than maintain competition. The presence of competing
patents serves merely to accentuate that tendency and to
underline the potency of the forces at work. Control over
prices thus becomes an actual or potential brake on com-

petition. This kind of marketing device thus, actually or
potentially, throttles or suppresses competing and noninfringing products and tends to place a premium on the
abandonment of competition. It is outside our competence to inquire whether the result was or was not beneficent, or whether the evil was or was not realized. As in
case of an appraisal of the reasonableness of prices which

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

are fixed, such a determination could satisfactorily be
made "only after a complete survey of our economic organization and a choice between rival philosophies"
(United States v. Trenton PotteriesCo., supra, 273 U. S.
at p. 398) and only after weighing a host of intangibles.
United States v. Socony-Vacuum Oil Co., supra. The
power of this type of combination to inflict the kind of
public injury which the Sherman Act condemns renders it
illegal per se. If it were sanctioned in this situation, it
would permit the patentee to add to his domain at public
expense by obtaining command over a competitor. He
would then not only secure a reward for his invention; he
.would enhance the value of his own trade position by
eli miinating or impairing competition. That would be no
more permissible than a contract between a copyright
owner and one who has no copyright, or a contract between
two copyright owners or patentees, to restrain the competitive distribution of the copyrighted or patented articles in the open market. Interstate Circuit,Inc. v. United
States, supra,p. 230. As stated in StandardSanitary Mfg.
Co. v. United States, supra, 226 U. S. at p. 49, rights conferred by patents "do not give any more than other rights
an universal license against positive prohibitions. The
Sherman law is a limitation of rights, rights which may be
pushed to evil consequences and therefore restrained."
Since the transactions here challenged were in interstate
commerce, no question as to the violation of the Sherman
Act remains.
But it is urged that the agreements made by the appellees in 1941, after the present suit was instituted, mark
ap abandonment of the former combination; and that,
since the new arrangement is unobjectionable, there is
nothing to enjoin. The difficulty with that contention is
that the 1941 agreements, though improved models of an
agency arrangement, removed none of the features which
we have found to be fatal. They still are unmistakable

REEVES v. BEARDALL.
265

Opinion of the Court.

*price-fixing agreements with competitors. And if there
were any lingering doubt as to whether the appellees were
parties to a conspiracy, it is dispelled at this point. A
committee of the appellees was appointed to draft the
new agreement. The agreement was completed after
meetings at which representatives of all of the appellees
attended. The 1941 agreements were the product of joint
and concerted action.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS and MR. JUSTICE JACKSON did not

participate in the consideration or decision of this case.
REEVES v. BEARDALL, EXECUTOR.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 841. Submitted April 8, 1942.-Decided May 11, 1942.
Under Rule 54 (b) of the Rules of Civil Procedure a judgment which
terminates the action with respect to one of several claims
jo'ined in a complaint is final for purposes of appeal under Jud.
Code § 128, though the other claims remain undisposed of, where
the several claims arose out of wholly separate and distinct transactions or engagements. P. 285.
Reversed.
CERTIORARI, 315 U. S. 790, to review a decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals which dismissed an appeal under
Jud. Code § 128 upon the ground that the judgment appealed from was not a final judgment.

Mr. Daniel Burke submitted for petitioner.
Messrs. CharlesR. Scott and C. P. Dickinson submitted
for respondent.

MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the Court.
The sole question presented by this case is whether the

Circuit Court of Appeals committed error in dismissing

