OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

STATE TAX COMMISSION OF UTAH v. ALDRICH
ET AL., ADMINISTRATORS.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF UTAH.

No. 814.

Argued March 12, 1942.-Decided April 27, 1942.

A State may, consistently with the Fourteenth Amendment, impose
a tax upon a transfer by death of shares of stock in a corporation

which is incorporated under its laws, even though the decedent,
of whose estate the shares were a part, was domiciled at the
time of death in another State, where the certificates representing
the shares were held; though the certificates were never within
the State of incorporation; and though for many years the corporation had kept its stock books, records and transfer agents in
the State where decedent was domiciled, and had maintained none
of these in the State of incorporation. First National Bank v.
Maine, 284 U. S. 312, overruled. P. 180.
116 P. 2d 923, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

315 U. S. 789, to review the affirmance of a

declaratory judgment that the transfer of stock by death,
here involved, was not subject to tax under the Utah
Inheritance Tax Law.
Messrs. J. Lambert Gibson and Garfield 0. Anderson
for petitioner.
Mr. Melber Chambers for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the Court.
The sole question presented by this case is whether the
State of Utah is precluded by the Fourteenth Amendment
from imposing a tax upon a transfer by death of shares of
stock in a Utah corporation, forming part of the estate of
a decedent who, at the time of his death, was domiciled in
the State of New York and held there the certificates representing those shares.
In 1940, Edward S. Harkness died.'testate, being at that
time domiciled in New York. His estate was probated

STATE TAX COMM'N v. ALDRICH.
174

Opinion of the Court.

in New York, where respondents were appointed executors. Respondents were also appointed administrators
with the will annexed, in Utah. At the time of his death,
Harkness was the owner of 10,000 shares of common stock
and 400 shares of preferred stock of the Union Pacific
Railroad Co., a Utah corporation. The certificates representing those shares were never within Utah. They
were in the possession of Harkness in New York 'at the
time of his death, and are now held by respondents. For
many years, the Union Pacific Railroad Co. has kept its
stock books and records and transfer agents in New York,
and has not maintained any in Utah. These shares are
the only property owned by decedent which is claimed to
be within the jurisdiction of Utah. At the date of decedent's death, a New York statute allowed as a credit
against the estate tax imposed by New York the amount
of any constitutionally valid estate or inheritance tax
paid to any other state within three years after the decedent's death.'
Respondents sought a declaratory judgment in the Utah
court holding that the transfer of the shares was not subject to tax by Utah under the provisions of its inheritance
tax law2 The trial court entered judgment for respond'N. Y. L. 1930, c. 710, § 1, amended L. 1934, c. 639, § 1; McKinney's
Cons. L., Bk. 59, Tax Law, § 249-o. This section was repealed by.
L. 1940, c. 138. For the present provision, see McKinney, op. cit.,
Cum. Ann. Pt. (1941) §,249-o.
2
Rev. Stat. Utah, 1933, § 80-12-2 provides:
"A tax equal to the sum of the following percentages of the tnarket
value of the net estate shall be imposed upon the transfer of the
net estate of every decedent, whether a resident or nonresident of this
state:
"Three per cent of the amount by which the net estate exceeds
$10,000 and does not exceed $25,000;
"Five per cent of the amount by which the net estate exceeds

$25,000."
Sec. 80-12-3 provides:

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court

316 U. S.

ents. The Supreme Court of Utah, under the compulsion
of First National Bank v. Maine, 284 U. S. 312, affirmed.
116 P. 2d 923. We granted the petition for certiorari
so that the constitutional basis of First National Bank v.
Maine could be reexamined in the light of such recent
decisions as Curry v. McCanless,307 U. S. 357, and Graves
v. Elliott, 307 U. S. 383. And see Commonwealth v.
Stewart, 338 Pa. 9, 12 A. 2d 444, aff'd 312 U. S. 649.
There can be no doubt but that the judgment below
should be affirmed if First National Bank v. Maine is to
survive, as the judgment in that case prohibited the State
of Maine from doing what the State of Utah is here attempting. But we do not think it should survive. And
certainly it cannot if the principles which govern the Curry
and Graves cases rest on firm constitutional grounds.
FirstNationalBank v. Maine,like its forerunners FarmersLoan & Trust Co. v. Minnesota,280 U. S. 204, and Baldwin v. Missouri, 28.1 U. S. 586, read into the Fourteenth
Amendment a "rule of immunity from taxation by more
than one state." 284 U. S. p. 326. As we said in the Curry
case, that doctrine is of recent origin. Prior to 1930, when
Blackstone v. Miller, 188 U. S. 189, was overruled by Farmers Loan & Trust Co. v. Minnesota, the adjudications of
this Court clearly demanded a result opposite from that
which obtained in FirstNational Bank v. Maine. That was
recognized by the majority in the latter case (284 U. S.
p. 321)-and properly so, because Blackstone v. Miller
rejected the notion that there were constitutional objec"The value of the gross estate of a decedent shall be determined
by including the value at the time of his death of all property, real
or personal, within the jurisdiction of this state, and any interest
therein, whether tangible or intangible, which shall pass to any person, m trust or otherwise, by testamentary disposition or by law,
of inheritance or succession of this or any other state or country, or
by deed, grant, bargain, sale or gift made in contemplation of the
death of the grantor, vendor or donor, or intended to take effect in
possession or enjoyment at or after his death."

STATE TAX COMM'N v. ALDRICH.
174

- Opinion of the Court.

tions to double taxation of intangibles by States which
had command over them or their owner. And see Kidd v.
Alabama, 188 U. S. 730, 732. Blackstone v. Miller permitted New York to tax the transfer of debts owed by New
York citizens to a decedent who died domiciled in Illinois,
although Illinois had taxed the entire succession. Mr.
Justice Holmes, speaking for the Court, upheld the power
of New York to collect the tax because the transfer of the
debts "necessarily depends upon and involves the law of
New York for its exercise." 188 U. S. p. 205. It was that
view which the minority in FirstNational Bank v. Maine
championed. They maintained that there was no constitutional barrier to taxation by Maine of the transfer of
the shares of stock of the Maine corporation, since the nature and extent of the decedent's interest in the shares
were "defined by the laws of Maine, and his power to secure
the complete transfer" was "dependent upon them." 284
U. S. p. 332. That view had been repeatedly expressed in
other earlier cases touching on the rights of a State to tax
intangibles over which it had command though the owner
was a non-resident. Tappan v. Merchants' Nat. Bank, 19
Wall. 490, 503-504; Hawley v. Malden, 232 U. S. 1, 12;
Baker v. Baker, Eccles & Co., 242 U. S. 394, 401.; Frick v.
Pennsylvania,268 U. S. 473, 497; Rhode Island Hospital
Trust Co. v. Doughton,270 U.S. 69,81. As stated by Chief
Justice Marshall in McCulloch v. Maryland,4 Wheat. 316,
429, the power to tax "is an incident of sovereignty, and is
co-extensive with that to which it is an incident. All subjects over which the sovereign power of a state extends,
are objects of taxation ..
It was that view which we followed in the Curry case.
We held there that the Fourteenth Ameiidment did not
prevent both Alabama and Tennessee from imposing
death taxes upon the transfer of an interest in intangibles
held in trust by an Alabama trustee but passing under the
will of a beneficiary decedent domiciled in Tennessee.
461263*--43----12

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

We stated that rights to intangibles "are but relationships
between persons, natural or corporate, which the law
recognizes by attaching to them certain sanctions enforceable in courts. The power of government over them
and the protection which it gives them cannot be exerted
through control of a physical thing. They can be made
effective only through control over and protection afforded
to those persons whose relationships are the'origin of the
rights. . . . Obviously, as sources of actual or potential
wealth-which is an appropriate measure of any tax imposed on ownership or its exercise-they cannot be dissociated from the persons from whose relationships they
are derived. These are not in any sense fictions. They
are indisputable realities." 307 U. S. p. 366. We held
that the power to tax intangibles was not restricted to one
State, whether "we regard the right of a state to tax as
founded on power over the object taxed, as declared by
Chief Justice Marshall in McCulloch v. Maryland, supra,
through dominion over tangibles or over persons whose relationships are the source of intangible rights; or on the
benefit and protection conferred by the taxing sovereignty,
or both." Id. pp. 367-368. And we added: "Shares of
corporate stock may be taxed at the domicile of the shareholder and also at that of the corporation which the
taxing state has created and controls; and income may
be taxed both by the state where it is earned and by the
state of the recipient's domicile. Protection, benefit, and
power over the subject matter are not confined to either
state." Id., p. 368. In the recent case of Wisconsin v.
J. C. Penney Co., 311 U. S. 435, 444, we gave renewed expression to the same view: "A state is free to pursue its
own fiscal policies, unembarrassed by the Constitution,
if by the practical operation of a tax the state has exerted
its power in relation to opportunities which it has given,
.to protection which it has afforded, to benefits which it has

STATE TAX COMM'N v. ALDRICH.
174

Opinion of the Court.

conferred by the fact of being an orderly, civilized society."
And see Graves v. Schmidlapp, 315 U. S.657.
Furthermore, the rule of immunity against double taxation espoused by FirstNational Bank v. Maine, had long
been rejected in other cases. Kidd v. Alabama, supra;
Fort Smith Lumber Co. v. Arkansas, 251 U. S. 532; Cream
of Wheat Co. v. GrandForks, 253 U. S. 325. We rejected
it again only recently. Illinois Central R. Co. v. Minnesota, 309 U. S. 157. And as we pointed out in the
Curry case, the reasons why the Fifth Amendment "does
not require us to fix a single exclusive place of taxation of
intangibles for the benefit of their foreign owner" (Burnet
v. Brooks, 288 U. S. 378) are no less cogent in case of
the Fourteenth. 307 U. S. pp. 369, 370.
The recent cases to which we have alluded are all
distinguishable on their facts. But their guiding principles are irreconcilable with the views expressed in First
National Bank v. Maine. If we raised a constitutional
barrier in this case after having let it down in the Curry
case, we would indeed be drawing neat legal distinctions
and refinements which certainly cannot be divined from
the language of the Constitution. Certainly any differences between the shares of stock in this case and the
intangibles in the Curry case do not warrant differences
in constitutional treatment so as to forbid taxation by two
States in the one case and to permit it in the other. If
we perpetuated any such differences, we would be doing
violence to the words "due process" by drawing lines
where the Fourteenth Amendment fails to draw them.
Furthermore, the legal interests in the intangibles here
involved are as diverse as they were in the intangibles in
the Curry case. And to say that these shares of stock
were localized or had an exclusive situs in New York
would be to indulge in the fiction which we rejected
in the Curry case. Any such attempt to fix their

180

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U.S.

whereabouts in New York would disregard the intimate
relationship which Utah has to this corporation and its
shares. -

More specifically, if the question is "whether the state
has given anything for which it can ask return" (Wisconsin
v. J. C. Penney Co., supra, p. 444), or whether the transfer
depends upon and involves the law of Utah for its exercise (Blackstone v. Miller), there can be no doubt that
Utah is not restrained by the Fourteenth Amendment from
taxing this transfer. The corporation owes its existence
to Utah. Utah law defines the nature and extent of the
interest of the shareholders in the corporation. Utah law
affords protection for those rights. Utah has power over
the transfer by the corporation of its shares of stock.
Certainly that protection, benefit, and power over the
shares would have satisfied the test of Blackstone v. Miller
and Curry v. McCanless. But it is said that we are here
interested only in the factum of the transfer, and that the
stockholder in the case at bar had no need to invoke the
law of Utah to effect a complete transfer of his interest.
The argument is based on the fact that the transfer office
is located outside Utah, and that, under the Uniform Stock
Transfer Act which Utah has adopted (Rev. Stat. 1933
§§ 18-3-1 et seq.), the trend is to treat the shares as merged
into the certificates in situations involving the ownership
and transfer of the shares. We do not stop to analyze
the many cases which have been cited, nor to speculate
as to how. Utah would interpret its law in this regard.
Suffice it to say, that if that freedom of transfer exists
as respondents claim, it stems from Utah law. It finds
its ultimate source in the authority which Utah has'
granted; It is indeed a benefit which Utah has bestowed.
For it alone. Utah may constitutionally ask a return. In
view of these realities, we cannot say with the majority in
FirstNatinalBank v. Maine,p. 327, that a "transfer from
the dead to the living of any specific property is an event

STATE TAX COMM'N v. ALDRICH.
174

Opinion of the Court.

single in character and is effected under the laws, and occurs within the limits, of a particular state," so as to preclude Utah from imposing a tax on this transfer.
We are of course not unmindful of the notions expressed
in FarmersLoan & Trust Co. v. Minnesota, and repeated
in First National Bank v. Maine, that the view championed by Blackstone v. Miller disturbed the "good relations among the States" and had a "bad" practical effect
which led many States "to avoid the evil by resort to
reciprocal exemption laws." 280 U. S. p. 209. But, as
stated by the minority in First National Bank v. Maine,
"We can have no assurance that resort to the Fourteenth
Amendment, as the ill-adapted instrument of such a reform, will not create more difficulties and injustices than
it will remove." 284 U. S. p. 334. More basically, even
though we believed that a different system should be designed to protect against multiple taxation, it is not our
province to provide it. See Curry v. McCanless, supra,
pp. 373-374. To do so would be to indulge in the dangerous assumption that the Fourteenth Amendment "was
intended to give us carte blanche to embody our economic
or moral beliefs in its prohibitions." Mr. Justice Holmes,
dissenting, Baldwin v. Missouri, supra, p. 595. It would
violate the first principles of constitutional adjudication
to strike down state legislation on the basis of our individual views or preferences as to policy, whether the state
,laws deal with taxes or other subjects of social or
economic legislation.
For the reasons stated, we do not think that First NationalBank v. Maine should survive. We overrule it. In
line with our recent decisions in Curry v. McCanless,
Graves v. Elliott and Graves v. Schmidlapp,we repeat that
there is no constitutional rule of immunity from taxation
of intangibles by more than one State. In case of shares
of stock, "jurisdiction to tax" is not restricted to the dom:
cilil''y State. Another State which has extended benefits

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
FRANKFURT.R,

J., concurring.

316 U. S.

or protection, or which can demonstrate "the practical fact
of its power" or sovereignty as respects the shares (Blackstone v. Miller, p. 205), may likewise constitutionally
make its exaction. In other words, we restore these intangibles to the constitutional status which they occupied
up to a few years ago. See Greves v. Shaw, 173 Mass. 205,
53 N. E. 372; Larson v. MacMiller, 56 Utah 84, 189 P. 579,
and cases collected in 42 A. L. R. pp. 365 et seq.
We reverse the judgment below and remand the cause to
the Supreme Court of Utah for proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUsTICE FRANKFURTER,

concurring:

A case of this kind recalls us to first principles.
The taxing power is an incident of government. It
does not derive from technical legal concepts. The
power to tax is coextensive with the fundamental power
of society over the persons and things made subject to
tax. Each State of the Union has the same taxing power
as an independent government, except insofar as that
power has been curtailed by the federal Constitution.
The taxing power of the States was limited by the Constitution and the original ten amendments in only three
respects: (1) no State can, without the consent of Congress, lay any imposts or duties on imports or exports, except as necessary for executing its inspection laws, Art. I,
§ 10 [2]; (2).no State can, without the consent of Congress, lay any tonnage duties, Art. I, § 10 [3]; and (3) by
virtue of the Commerce Clause, Art. I, § 8 [3], no State can
tax so as to discriminate against interstate commerce.
(For present purposes, I put the Contract Clause to one
side). None of these limitations touches the power of a
State to create corporations and the incidental power to tax
opportunities which such State-created corporations
afford.

STATE TAX COMM'N v. ALDRICH.
174

FRANKFURTER,

J,

concurring.

This phase of the taxing power, rooted in the established
practices of the States in common with other governments, was not suddenly abrogated on July 28, 1868, when
the Fourteenth Amendment became the law of the land.
On the contrary, taxes based on the States' power over
corporations of their own creation thereafter became an
increasingly familiar source of revenue. Of course, the
Due Process Clause has its application to the taxing
powers of the States--a State cannot tax a stranger for
something that it has not given him. When a State gives
nothing in return for exacting a tax, it may be said that
there is no "jurisdiction to tax." But that phrase obscures
rather than enlightens, for it only states a result and does
not analyze the Constitutional problem. The right of
a State to tax the effective acquisition of membership in
a domestic corporation, wherever the piece of paper representing such a taxable interest may be physically
located,-the immediate question before us-was not
doubted until the decision of this Court only ten years
ago in FirstNationalBank v. Maine, 284 U. S. 312. That
decision, as was made clear in its dissent, was an unwarranted deviation from unbroken legal history and fiscal
practice. Drawn as the decision was "from the void
of 'due process of law', when logic, tradition and authority
have united-to declare the right of the State to lay" such
a tax (Holmes, J., dissenting in Baldwin v. Mi.souri, 281
U. S. 586, 596), due regard for the Constitution demands
that the deviation be not perpetuated and that the
power erroneously withdrawn from the States be again
recognized.
Modern enterprise often brings different parts of an
organic commercial transaction within the taxing power
of more than one State, as well as of the Nation. It does
so because the transaction in its entirety may receive the
benefits of more than one government. And the exercise
by the States of their Constitutional power to tax may

184

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring.

316 U. S.

undoubtedly produce difficult political and fiscal problems.
But they are inherent in the nature of our federalism and
are part of its price. These difficulties are not peculiar
to us. Kindred problems have troubled other constitutional federalisms. For Australia, see Report of the Royal
Commission on the Constitution, Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia (1929), p. 187 et seq.; for Canada,
see 1 Report of the Royal Commission on Dormnion-Provincial Relations (1940), p. 202 et seq.
"A good deal has to be read into the Fourteenth Amendment to give it any bearing upon this case." Holmes, J.,
dissenting in Farmers Loan Co. v. Minnesota, 280 U. S.
204, 218. We would have to read into that Amendment
private notions as to tax policy. But whether a tax is
wise or expedient is the business of the political branches
of government, not ours. Considerations relevant to
invalidation of a tax measure are wholly different from
those that come into play in justifying disapproval of a
tax on the score of political or financial unwisdom.
It may well be that the last word has not been said by
the various devices now available-through uniform and
reciprocal legislation, through action by the States under
the Compact Clause, Art. I, § 10 [3], or through whatever
other means statesmen may devise-for distributing wisely
the total national income for governmental purposes as
between the States and the Nation. But even if it were
possible to make the needed adjustments in the fiscal
relations of the States to one another and to the Federal
Government through the process of episodic litigationwhich to me seems most ill-adapted for devising fiscal
policies-it is enough that our Constitutional system denies such a function to this Court.
I agree, therefore, that First National Bank v. Maine
should be overruled and that the tax imposed by Utah

STATE TAX COMM'N v. ALDRICH.
174

185

JAcKsoN, J., dissenting.

in this case is valid. To refuse to nullify legislation the
frailties of which we think we see, is to respect the bounds
of our Constitutional authority and not to indulge in a
fiction. See James Bradley Thayer, The Originand Scope
of the American Doctrine of ConstitutionalLaw, 7 Harv.
L. Rev. 129. To allow laws to stand is to allow laws
to be made by those whose task it is to legislate. The
nullification of legislation on Constitutional grounds has
been recognized from the beginning as a most "delicate"
function, not to be indulged in by this Court simply because it has formal power to do so, but only when compelling considerations leave no other choice. To suggest
that when this Court finds that a law is not offensive to
the Constitution and that it must therefore stand, *we
make the same kind of judgment as when on rare occasions
we find that a law is offensive to the Constitution and
must therefore fall, is to disregard the r6le of this Court
in our Constitutional system since its establishment in
1789.
MR.JusTICE JACKSON, dissenting:

State taxation of transfer by death of intangible property
is in something of a jurisdictional snarl, to the solution of
which this Court owes all that it has of wisdom and power.
The theoretical basis of some decisions in the very practical
matter of taxation is not particularly satisfying. But a
switch of abstract concepts is hardly to be expected without
at least careful consideration of its impact on the very
practical and concrete problems of States and taxpayers.
1 f one of them, Mr. Justice Holmes said: ' "It seems to me that
the result reached by the Court probably is a desirable one, but I hardly
understand how it can- be deduced from the Fourteenth Amendment . . ." Union Refrigerator Transit Co. v. Kentucky, 199 U. S.
194, 211.

186

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

316 U. S.

Weighing the highly doctrinaire reasons advanced for this
decision against its practical effects on our economy and
upon our whole constitutional law of state taxation, I can
see nothing in the Court's decision more useful than the
proverbial leap from the frying pan into the fire.

I
There is little persuasion and certainly no compulsion
in the authorities mustered by the Court's present opinion,
which are either admittedly overruled cases, such as
Blackstone v. Miller, 188 U. S. 189, or admittedly distinguishable ones, such as Curry v. McCanless, 307 U. S. 357;
Graves v. Elliott, 307 U. S. 383; Wisconsin v. J. C. Penney
Co., 311 U. S. 435. Such authorities are not impressive in
vindication of such a judgment. Without discussion of the
academic merits of the decision that is being overruled,
I am willing to proceed on the estimate of it made at the
time of its pronouncement by the present CHIEF JUSTICE,
who said in his dissent: "Situs of an intangible, for taxing
purposes, as the decisions of this Court, including the present one, abundantly demonstrate, is not a dominating
reality, but a convenient fiction which may be judicially
employed or discarded, according to the result desired."
First National Bank v. Maine, 284 U. S. 312, 332. The
Court now discards this fiction in favor of one calling for
a different result.
This older rule ascribed a fictional consequence to the
domicile of a natural person; it is overruled by ascribing a
fictional consequence to the domicile of an artificial corporation. The older rule emphasized dominance by the
individual over his intangible property, the tax situs of
which followed the domicile of its owner. Today's new
rule emphasizes the dominance of the corporation, a crea-

STATE TAX COMM'N v. ALDRICH.
174

JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

ture of the legal imagination.' To this fictional personality it ascribes a hypothetical "domicile" in a place where
it has but a fraction of its property and conducts only its
formal corporate activities; and on the union of these two
fictions it permits the chartering State to tax the estates
of persons who never lived or did business therein. The
reasoning back of the holding is this: Because Utah issued
a charter to a corporation, which issued stock to a nonresident, which changed hands at his death, which required
a transfer on the corporation's books, which transfer was
permitted by Utah law, Utah got jurisdiction to tax succession to the stock. It is really as remote as that.
No one questions that a State which charters a corporation, even though it amounts to no more than giving
"to airy nothing a local habitation and a name," has the
right to exact a charter fee, an incorporation tax, or a
franchise tax from the artificial entity it has created. But
that such chartering enables the taxing arm of the State
to reach the estate of every stockholder, wherever he lives,
and to tax the entire value of the stock because of "opportunities which it has given," "protection which it has
afforded," or "benefits which it has conferred" is quite
another matter. Utah is permitted to tax the full value
'A corporation is defined by John Marshall as "an artificial being,
invisible, intangible, and existing only in contemplation of law."
Trustees of Dartmouth College v. Woodward, 4 Wheat. 518, 636. The
New York Court of Appeals has said: "A corporation, however, is a
mere conception of the legislative mind. It exists only on paper
through the command of the legislature that its mental conception shall
be clothed with power." People v. Knapp, 206 N. Y. 373, 381, 99 N. E.
841, 844. "It took half a century of litigation in this Court finally to
confer on a corporation, through the use of a fiction, citizenship in the
chartering state for jurisdictional purposes....
Throughout, the mode
of thought was metaphorical." Mn. JUvcn FRANEx'urm, in Neirbo
Co. v. Bethlehem Shipbuilding Corp., 308 U. S. 165, 169. Compare
the cases where courts are obliged to disregard the corporate entity to
avoid a variety of injustices. See Wormser, Disregard of the Corporate
Fiction (1927).

188

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
JAcKsoN,

J., dissenting.

316 U.S.

of each share of Union Pacific stock passing by death.
Any conceivable "opportunity,") "protection," or "benefit"
derived by the Union Pacific stockholders from Utah, is
negligible in proportion to the values Utah is authorized
to tax.
It would be hard to select a case that would better demonstrate the fictional basis of the Court's doctrine of benefits and protection than this case of Utah and the Union
Pacific Railroad. When Utah was admitted to statehood
in 1896, the UniondPacifc Railroad was already old as a
national institution. The first white settlement in Utah
made by the Mormons was in its second year when President Taylor recommended to Congress consideration
of a railroad to the Pacific as a "work of great national
importance and of a value to the country which it would
be difficult to estimate." 8 In 1853, Congress appropriated $150,000 to make explorations and surveys to
"ascertain the most practical and economical route."'
In 1860, both the leading political parties in their platforms declared in favor of building such a road.5 President Lincoln, on July 1, 1862, signed I the war measure
creating the Union Pacific Railroad Company and subsidizing the construction of the road,' which opened on
6 Messages and Papers of the Presidents 2558, Message of t)ecem-

ber 4, 1849. President Buchanan also repeatedly recommended the
road as a defense necessity to be constructed under the war power.
Id. at 2988; Id., Vol. 7, at 3057, 3103, 3181.
'10 Stat. 219.
STrottman, History of the Union Pacific (1923) 8.
Sandburg, Abraham Lincoln-The War Years, Vol. 1, 510. See
also Vol. 2, 461, for an account of Lincoln's selection of the location of
its eastern terminal.
'It granted a right of way across the public lands owned by the
United States and a subsidy loan of $16,000 per mile for the construction on the plain, $48,000 per mile for one hundred and fifty miles over
the Rocky Mountains, and $32,000 per mile for the remainder. The construction amounted to 1,034 miles, and the subsidy loan to $27,236,512.
The Central Pacific, for 883 miles constructed from San Francisco to

STATE TAX COMM'N v. ALDRICH.
174

JACMsoN,

J., dissenting.

May 10, 1869.8 The story of the Union Pacific has been
a part of our national history. Not even its scandals
were local. Its Credit Mobilier scandal rocked the Nation.9
The road continued to be a national problem as well as
a national enterprise. President Cleveland recommended
to Congress in his message of December 3, 1894 consideration of reorganization. ° The steps taken by the Government were reported to the Congress by President McKinley
in his annual messages of 1897, 1898, and 1899. He reported the sale of the Union Pacific main line under the
decree of the United States Court for the District of Nebraska on November 1 and 2, 1897.11 Utah, on July 1, 1897,
granted a charter to the present Union Pacific Railroad
Company, as the Federal Government or any one of several state governments might have done. It has become
one of the great and stable transportation systems of the
United States.
If it had only the "opportunities" and "benefits" conferred by Utah and only the properties protected by her
laws, the Union Pacific would cut little figure either in
transportation or finance. It holds its stockholders' meetings in that State. But it maintains no executive office or
stock transfer office in Utah. Its executive and stock
transfer offices are in New York City. Its stocks are listed
on the New York, Boston, London, and Amsterdam stock
exchanges. Over 200,000 shares of its stock were traded
on the New York Stock Exchange in 1939.1 Its western
operating office is not in Utah, but in Omaha, Nebraska.
It is stipulated that less than 9% of its 9877 miles of
meet the Union Pacific, received nearly an equal amount. 12 Stat. 489.
Further grants were made by an Act of July 2, 1864, 13 Stat. 356.
'11 Messages and Papers of the Presidents 638.
gBowers, The Tragic Era (1929) 396 et seq.
"°13 Messages and Papers of the Presidents 5969.
" 13 Messages and Papers of the Presidents 6273, 6343, 6390.
'Moody's Steam Railroads (1940) 907.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
JACKSON, J., dissenting.

316 U. S.

trackage are in Utah and that, during 1939, the railway
operating revenue from Utah intrastate business plus
the Utah proportion on a mileage basis of its interstate
business was 8.97% of the entire gross operating revenues
of the company.
What gives the Union Pacific stock its value, all of
which is appropriated by this decision to Utah's taxing
power, is its operation in interstate commerce, a privilege
which comes from the United States and one which Utah
does not give or protect and could not deny. The Union
Pacific system itself is in interstate operation, embracing
thirteen states and drawing its business from the whole
country. Approximately 37% of its total tonnage was
received from connecting lines." If the values derived
from privileges extended by the National Government and
from rendering national transportation were to be allocated to any single State for tax purposes, a realistic basis
would entitle the five States of Idaho, Kansas, Nebraska,
Oregon, and Washington to some consideration, for each
embraces, authorizes, and protects by its laws more miles
of trackage than does Utah. 1'
These facts leave nothing ofUtah's claim to tax the full
Value of Union Pacific shares when transferred by death
of a nonresident stockholder, and no basis for the Court's
decision. that it may do so, except the metaphysics of the
corporate charter.
II
The theories on which this case is decided contrast
sharply with certain hard facts which measure the decision's practical wisdom or lack of it.
Moody's Steam Railroads (1940) 895.
"Mileage of the system is as follows: (1) Idaho, 2051.12; (2)
Nebraska; 1355.68; (3) Oregon, 1172.48; (4) Kansas, 1159.87; (5)
Washingtcn, 1047.04; (6) Utah, 888.47; (7) Wyomng, 717.32; (8)
Colorado, 609.13; (9) California, 390.52; (10) Nevada, 358.12; (11)
Montana, 143.46; (12) Iowa, 2.48; (13) Missouri, 2.16. Moody's
Steam Railroads (1940) 893,

STATE TAX COMM'N v. ALDRICH.
174

JAcKsox, J., dissenting.

1. The effect of the Court's decision is to intensify the
already unwholesome conflict and friction between the
States of the Union in competitive exploitation of intangible property as a source of death duties.
The practical issue underlying this case is not whether
the Harkness estate shall pay or avoid a transfer tax.

The issue is whether Utah or New York will collect this
tax. It is admitted that if this Court breathes constitutionality into this Utah tax, all that Utah gets will be
credited to the Harkness estate on its tax payable in New
York as the State of domicile. The right of a State to
tax succession to corporate stock by death of one domiciled therein, while not abrogated, is now subjected to
an interfering and overlapping right of the State which
chartered the corporation to tax the same stock transfer
on a different and inconsistent principle. Since the chartering State has apparently been empowered to exact
its tax as a condition of permitting the transfer, the taxing power of the State of the stockholder's domicile is
really subordinated and deferred to the taxing power
of the chartering State. By laying its tax on the gross
value transferred, irrespective of the net value of the
decedent's estate, the chartering State may give its tax
an effective priority of payment over the taxes laid by
the domiciliary State and may collect what amounts to
an inheritance tax even when there is no net estate to
transfer. Thus, through the corporate charter fiction,
the chartering State may thrust its own tax with extraterritorial effect between the taxing power of the State of
domicile and tax resources to which that State has had,
and I think should have, first and, under ordinary circumstances, exclusive resort.
2. To subject intangible property to many more sources
of taxation than other wealth, prejudices its relation to
other investments and other wealth by a discrimination
which has no basis in the function that intangibles per-

192

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
JAcmON,

J., dissenting.

316 U.S.

form for our present society.'
Intangibles, except for
government issues, are an outgrowth of our modern corporation system. Of relatively recent growth, the corporation has become almost the unit of organization of our
economic life. Whether for good or ill, the stubborn fact
is that in our present system the corporation carries on the
bulk of production and transportation, is the chief employer of both labor and capital, pays a large part of our
taxes, and is an economic institution of such magnitude
.and importance that there is no present substitute for it
except the State itself. Except for the easy circulation and
ready acceptability of pieces of paper characterized as
stocks or bonds, this existing system could not function.
It is these intangible symbols or tokens which give liquidity and mobility to otherwise fixed underlying plant assets,
which give ready negotiability to fractional interests
therein that would otherwise transfer with difficulty, and
which divide among many both benefits and risks from
aggregation of properties whose successful functioning for
society requires unified management of the bulk. The
amount of plant and material and goods in process, working capital, good will, and organization at any time devoted
The burdens imposed by the present decision are cumulative and

must be considered in relation to taxation of intangibles in some circumstances by States other than that of domicile (Curry v. McCanless,
307 U. S. 357; Graves v. Elliott, 307 U. S. 383), and also in reference to
the closing of the federal courts to both State and taxpayers where
different state courts make inconsistent findings on domicile resulting
in estate taxation by two or more States. Massachusettsv. Missouri,
308 U. S. 1; Texas v.,Florida, 306 U. S. 398; Worcester County Trust
Co. v. Riley, 302 U. S. 292; New Jersey v. Pennsylvania,287 U- S. 580;
Dorrance v. Pennsylvania,287 U. S. 660 and 288 U. S. 617, certiorari
denied to review Dorrance's Estate, 309 Pa. 151; Hill v. Martin, 296
U. S. 393; Dorrancev. Martin, 298 U. S. 678, certiorari denied to review Dorrance v. Thayer-Martin,116 N. J. L. 362; Sargent and Tweed,
Death and Taxes are Certain-But What of Domicile?, 53 Harvard L.
Rev. 68; cf. Treinies v. Sunshine Mining Co., 308 U. S. 66.

STATE TAX COMM'N v. ALDRICH.
174

JAcio , J., dissenting.

to enterprise substantially will depend upon the willingness of the public to stand in the position of stockholder or
bondholder. When this Court determines that the effect
of owning this type of circulating medium is to subject
the estate of the owner to an inheritance tax from every
State that chartered one of the companies in which he has
invested, it imposes a handicap on such ownership that
is substantial and influential upon our economy.

Not one substantial evil is said by the opinion in this
case to flow from the rule being upset, and evils of some
magnitude admittedly follow from the one being rein-stated. These consequences the Court declines even to
consider, although they bear upon a segment of our
economy bigger than the national debt '"and affect more
persons than are now in the armed forces."7

Intangibles

U. S. Treasury Statistics of Income for 1938, Part If, p. 4 (latest
available) shows that 520,501 corporations filed returns. 169,884 of
them reported net income aggregating $6,525,979,257, while 301,148
reported an aggregate loss for the year of $2,853,097,727.
The Commissioner computes dividends paid in cash or assets other
than stock to have been $5,013,432,827. Id. at 22.
Balance sheets were submitted by 411,941 corporations showing total
assets of $300,021,727,000. Id. at 28.
The volume of intangibles afloat as a result of corporate financing
is not specifically calculated, but some idea of it is gleaned from the
aggregate of items as follows:
Common stocks .............. $74, 791, 662,000
Preferred stocks........... 18, 108,066,000
Bonds, notes and mortgages-maturity 1 year or more.. 50, 278, 233, 000 Ibid.
"I know of no accurate calculation of the number of persons who
hold stocks or bonds. Many estimates are extravagant and include
an enormous amount of duplications--for example, the aggregate of
stockholders' lists of all corporations. I think the estimate of Berle
and Means as of 1927 that between four and six million persons owned
stocks, including an estimated two million employee or customer stockholders, is a reasonable one. The Modem Corporation and Private
Property (1934) 374. Many are, of course, also bondholders, and the
461263--43-----18

194

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

316 U. S.

constitute well above 50% of all property transferred by
death,"8 and an even greater proportion of that transferred
by gift, which I assume is equally vulnerable to this tax.1"
The gravity of subjecting such extensive interests to complex, confusing, and overlapping tax jurisdictions should be
weighed against the reasons advanced for the change.
The revenue that the Stares may collect in consequence
of this decision is not the measure of the burden it imposes on taxpayers. The ascertainment of taxes of this
type is costly and wasteful. Such taxation frequently
number to be added after allowing for duplication is difficult to estimate. It must also, of course, be borne in mind that this includes
many very small holdings and that such statistics are of little value in
considering the relative benefits from such holdings derived by those
in different income brackets.
"United States Treasury Statistics of Income for 1938, Part I, p.
220, shows that 15,221 estates filed returns showing total gross estates
of $2,746,143,000, of which real estate was $433,487,000, tangible personal property, $34,637,000, and intangible personal property
$2,278,019,000.
The intangibles so reported included:
Capital stock in corporations ........... $1,079, 231,000
State and municipal bonds ..........
242,537,000

Government bonds ..................
148,802,000
Other bonds ........................
164,796,000
Of course it does not follow that the same proportions hold good
for estates too small to be reported under federal law. Because they
would be more heavily weighted with farm and home owning, I am
confident these statistics do not present proportions applicable to all
transfers by death. They do, I believe, sustain the statement made
in the text.
" United States Treasury Statistics of Income for 1938, Part I, p.
264, show total gifts reported for taxation asReal Estate ..............
.
$41,241,000
Stocks and Bonds ....................... 214, 583,000
Cash ................................. 72, 390,000
Insurance ............................. 21,795,000
Miscellaneous ......................... 49,764,000

STATE TAX COMM'N v. ALDRICH.
174

JAcxsoN,

J., dissenting.

requires taking out ancillary letters in the State of the
corporation's domicile, the hiring of local counsel, the
furnishing of affidavits to local probate courte and inheritance tax officials, and the payment of various fees,
costs, and expenses. For the assurance of local creditors,
bonds are sometimes required and long kept in force.
Realization upon assets and distribution of estates is delayed by inability to get waivers or consents to transfer
until after extensive proceedings have been conducted.
The seriousness of these burdens is increased if the decedent owns stock in consolidated corporations incorporated
in several States; and under this decision stocks of some
consolidated railroads would be subject to tax on their
full values by five or six States. One need not be unduly
soft-hearted towards taxpayers to doubt whether the
exhaustion of estates through multiplication of reports,
returns, appraisals, litigation, counsel fees, and expenses
ultimately makes for a sound fiscal policy or an enlightened social policy.
Moreover, the burdens imposed by this type of taxation
are unequal and capricious and in inverse order to the
ability of the estate to pay. I suppose we need have
little anxiety about Mr. Harkness's $87,000,000 net estate
with its $1,000,000 investment in Union Pacific stock.
As we have pointed out, it is not he, bit the State of
New York, that will pay this tax to the State of Utah.
And if New York had no provision in its statutes for
credit and Mr. Harkiess could have foreseen the shift
of position of this Court, it is not likely that he would
have been caught with the tax. Those who have large
estates and watchful lawyers will find ways of minimizing
these burdens. But Mr. Harkness is not a typical Union
Pacific stockholder. In 1939, the Union Pacific had
50,131 stockholders."0 The many small stockholders canMoody's Steam Railroads (1940) 888.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
JACsON, J., dissenting.

316 U. S.

not afford professional counsel or evasion devices. The
burden of reports and appraisals and foreign tax proceedings bears heavily upon them because of the relatively
small amount involved in their transfers. The new tax
we have authorized undermines the principle of graduation of tax burdens in proportion to ability to pay. No
tax laid on anything less than the total net worth of the
estate can be graduated even roughly according to the
principle which progressive modern taxation strives to
heed. The imposition of unpredictable assessments from
many sources makes it impossible for the State of domicile to make intelligent use of its own taxing power as an
instrument of enlightened social policy. Chaos serves
no social end.
3. A large majority of the States, by experience prior
to the FirstNational Bank v. Maine decision, found the
system of taxation which this Court imposes on all States
today to be unworkable and to constitute a threat to the
death tax on intangibles as a State source of revenue.
Competitive use by the States of death taxation and immunities invited federal invasion of the field, one phase
of which was the enactment by Congress of § 301, Revenue
Act of 1926, sustained by this Court in Floridav. Mellon,
273 U. S.12. There the Federal Government had laid an
estate tax, but retained only 20% of the revenue and used
an 80%. credit provision to equalize the demands of the
States. There was an uneasy premonition among the
States that overlapping, capricious, and multiple taxation
would lead to Federal occupation of the field. Appearing
in the FirstNational Bank case as amicu8 curiae, the New
York State Tax Commission urged that both principle and
policy prevent the levying of taxes by more than one jurisdiction, and added: "The New York Tax Commission

STATE TAX COMM'N v. ALDRICH.
174

197

JACKsON, J., dissenting.

believes that the present is a crucial period in the
development of death taxation in this country and that a
false step may make it difficult for the states to retain the
death tax as a source of substantial revenue." We revive
their difficulties.
Farsighted States saw that the total revenue resources
practically available to the States was not increased by
overlapping their taxation and invading each-other's domiciliary sources of taxation. Many felt that justice required credits to their own domiciled decedents' estates
for taxes exacted elsewhere, and the credits granted offset
largely the revenue derived from the tax. The multiple
taxation added substantially to the cost of administration
and to the annoyance of taxpayers. Because of these considerations, at the time of argument of First National
Bank v. Maine, thirty-seven States had enacted reciprocity statutes which voluntarily renounced revenues from
this type of taxation.. The Court was urged to stay the
hand of sister States which would not coperate. The restraint laid by this Court in response to those appeals is
now withdrawn at the behest of a State which has at no
time enacted a reciprocity statute. or given a credit for
such taxes paid by its domiciled decedents elsewhere. We
have not heard the views of any other State nor. considered their concern about retaining the source of taxation
opened to them. I do not doubt that today's decision
will give a new impetus to Federal absorption of this
revenue source and to Federal incorporation of large
enterprises.
4. An unfortunate aspect of this decision is that, in
common with other judge-made law, it has retroactive
effect. Consequently, inequalities and injustices will be
suffered by States as well as by individuals. For example,
the State of New York has written into' its own Constitu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
JACKSON, J., dissenting.

316 U. S.

tion the limitations on its taxing power which this Court
had established by the decision we now overrule.' Until
it can adjust its constitutional provisions, such a State
may not take advantage of the tax privileges the Court
confers today, although other States may do so. We have
not been advised as to the number of States which have
repealed or modified reciprocity or credit provisions in
their own statutes or constitutions in reliance upon the
decision we overrule. Credit provisions contained in statute. may be the foundation for claims for refund against
domiciliary States as chartering States proceed to take
advantage of the privilege of retroactive taxation accorded
them by this decision. Estates closed, and distributed
under existing laws become indebted by force of this decision to chartering States on claims for transfer tax that
may hale existed in the state statutes but had never been
suspected of having constitutional validity. For what periods these claims may have vitality depends on state
'Article XVI, § 3 of the New York State Constitution, adopted in
1938, provides:
"Moneys, credits, securities and other intangible personal property
within the state not employed in carrying on any business therein by

the owner shall be deemed to be located at the domicile of the owner
for purposes of taxation, and, if held in trust, shall not be deemed to be
located in this state for purposes of taxation because of the trustee
being domiciled in this state, provided that if no other state has jurisdiction to subject such property held in trust to death taxation, it may
be deemed property having a taxable situs within this state for purposes of death taxation. Intangible personal property shall not be taxed
ad valorem nor shall' any excise tax be levied solely because of the
ownership or possession thereof, except that the income therefrom may
be taken into consideration in computing any excise tax measured by
income generally.' Undistributed profits shall not be taxed."
That decision apparently ended the necessity for reciprocal exemption and I know of none enacted since. Texas and Missouri appear to
have omitted reciprocal exemption provisions in later revisions of their
inheritance tax laws.

STATE TAX COMM'N v. ALDRICH.
174

JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

statutes of limitation. Whether personal liability may be
asserted against executors and administrators for failure
to pay taxes that our decisions did not tolerate at the time
the estates were closed, likewise depends on the laws of the
chartering States. With confidence we may anticipate that
this decision will produce much confusion, some controversy between the States, and a lusty crop of litigation.
III
The Court casts aside former limitations on state power
to tax nonresidents in sGah terms hs to leave doubt
whether any legal limitations are hereafter to be recognized or applied. The opinion of the Court says that the
State may "constitutionally inake its exaction" "which can
demonstrate 'the practical fact of its power.'" The concurring opinion adds that "Each State of the Union has the
same taxing power as an independent country, except
insofar as that power has been curtailed by the federal
Constitution," and it enumerates three limitations, each
of which prohibits a kind of tax or protects kinds of business from tax; but none of them restrains taxation by reference to what we have usually expressed by "jurisdiction." It is true that the concurring opinion says that
"the Due Process Clause has its application to the taxing
power of the States," but we are not told what it may be,
and it is difficult to conceive of a situation where it will
ever be useful if it may not be considered as a test of
jurisdiction to impose a tax.
Despite today's decision, I trust this Court does not intend to say that might always makes right in the matter
of taxation. I hope there is agreement, though unexpressed, that there are limits, and that our problem is to
search out and mark those limits. One way to go about'
it is to say that those States can tax which have the physi-

200

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
JAC:soN, J., dissenting.

316 U. S.

cal power to do so and have conferred some benefits or
protection on the taxpayer. Of course there is nothing in
the Constitution about this, but that is a criticism that
can 6be directed at any test that I can think of. My difficulty is that on its face--and as so far applied-this test
comes out to the point where might does make right. For
in a very real sense every State and Territory in the
Union has conferred very real benefits upon every inhabitant of the Union. Some States have seen to it that our
food is properly produced and inspected; others have fostered and protected the industry upon which we are
utterly dependent for the ordinary conveniences of life and
for life itself. All of them have yielded up men to provide government at home and to repel the enemy abroad.
I am the very real debtor, but am frank enough to say
I hope not a potential taxpayer, of all.
Certain it is that while only corporate stock is expressly mentioned in the opinion or involved in the judgment today, the fiction of benefits and protection is capable of as ready adaptability to other intangible property.
Our tomorrows .will witness an extension of the taxing
power of the chartering or issuing State to corporate bonds
and bonds of States and municipalities (by overruling
FarmersLoan & Trust Co. v. Minnesota,280 U. S. 204), to
bank credits for cash deposited (by overruling Baldwin v.
Missouri,281 U. S. 586),. and to choses in action (by overruling Beidler v. South Carolina,282 U. S. 1). And while
today the Court sustains only a death transfer tax, its
theories are equally serviceable to sustain an income or
excise tax, on dividends from such stock or interest on
bonds, or a sales tax, or a gift tax. Whether each chartering or issuing State will be permitted to calculate its tax
on some formula that will consider the total property
owned by the decedent, I do not know, but in the present

STATE TAX COMM'N v. ALDRICH.
174

JACxSoN, J., dissenting.

trend of decision there is little restraint on such formulas.
I therefore take today's decision to mean that any State
may lay substantially any tax on any transfer of intangible property toward which it can spell out a conceivable
legal relationship.
And since the Due Process Clause speaks with no more
clarity as -to tangible than as to intangible property, the
question is opened whether our decisions as to taxation
of tangible property are not due to be overhauled. And
if the State of Utah is not denied jurisdiction over the
transfer of this stock owned by a New York resident,
it is difficult to see where the Court could find a basis for
denying it jurisdiction to prescribe the rule of succession
to it.

The Court, it seems to me, will be obliged to draw the
line at which state power to reach nonresidents' estates
and extraterritorial transactions comes to an end. I find
little difficulty in concluding that exaction of a tax by a
State which has no jurisdiction or lawful authority to
impose it is a taking of property without due process of
law. The difficulty is that the concept of jurisdiction is
not defined by the Constitution. Any decision which
accepts or rejects any one of the many grounds advanced
as jurisdictional for state taxing purposes2 will read
into the Constitution an inclusion or an exclusion that is
not found in its text. To read into the Constitution
the Court's present concept of jurisdiction through charter
granting, and to hold that it follows that the Constitution
does not prohibit this tax, is to make new law quite as
certainly as to adhere to the concept of jurisdiction ac"See Lowndes, State Taxation of Inheritances, 29 Michigan Law
Review 850; Hine, Situs of Shares Issued under the Uniform Stock
Transfer Act, 87 University of Pennsylvania Law Review 700.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
JACKSON, J.,

dissenting.

316 U. S.

cording to the decedent's domicile and2 8 to hold that the
Constitution therefore does prohibit it.
I am content with existing constitutional law unless it
appears more -plainly that it is unsound or until it works
badly in our present day and society.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS concurs

in this opinion.

But fear of legislating need not intimidate those of either view.
The necessity of eventually finding some jurisdictional basis for state
action affecting nonresidents presents a problem similar to that stated
by Mr. Justice Holmes in Southern Pacific Co. v. Jensen, 244 U. S. 205,
221: "I recognize without hesitation that judges do and must legislate,
but they can do so only interstitially; they are confined from molar
to molecular motions." And another candid jurist has said: "I will
not hesitate in the silence or inadequacy of formal sources to indicate
as the general line of direction for the judge the following: that he
ought to shape his judgment of the law in obedience to the same aims
which would be those of a legislator who was proposing to himself
to regulate the question." Cardozo, The Nature of the Judicial
Process (1932) 120.
Where prescribed sources of law fail to guide the judicial process,
the Swiss Civil Code provides that the judge "must pronounce judgment according to the rule which he would set up if he were legislator
himself." Williams, Sources of Law in the Swiss Civil Code (1923)
34 et seq.; Schoch, The Swiss Conflict of Laws, 55 Harvard Law Review
738, 749, note 57. The Swiss may have thought a candid recognition
of what necessarily is the practice would forestall judicial disclaimer
of responsibility for the practical consequences of law announced.

