OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Counsel for Parties.

316 U. S.

States is to be deemed a corporation organized under its
own laws.
It is not our function to speculate as to what Congress
probably intended by the words it used, or to enforce the
supposed policy of the Act by adding a provision which
Congress might have incorporated but omitted.
WILMINGTON TRUST CO., EXECUTOR, v. HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 775. Argued April 10, 1942.-Decided April 27, 1942.

1. A finding of the Board of Tax Appeals that certain sales of stock
by the taxpayer in this case were ordinary sales and not "short"

sales, was supported by substantial evidence and was therefore
conclusive. P. 167.
2. The criteria which the Board employed in determining whether

the sales of stock in this case were "short" sales complied with the
legal principles announced in Provost v. United States, 269 U. S.
443. P. 168.
.3. The Circuit Court of Appeals is authorized by statute to modify
or reverse a decision of the Board of Tax Appeals only if it is "not

in accordance with law." P. 168.
124 F. 2d 156, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 315 U. S.789, to review the reversal of a decision of the Board of Tax Appeals, 42 B. T. A. 173, redetermining a deficiency in income tax.

Mr. William S. Potterfor petitioner.
Mr. Richard H. Demuth, with whbm Solicitor General
Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Clark, and Messrs. J.
Louis Monarch and Morton K. Rothschild were on the
brief, for respondent.

WILMINGTON CO. v. HELVERING.
164

Opinion of the Court.

MR.. JusTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The sole question presented by this case is whether certain sales of shares of stock made by the taxpayer, petitioner's decedent, were "short" sales or sales of "long"
stock. If they were not "short" sales, then the taxpayer
was justified in deducting from dividends credited to the
"long" shares the amount of dividends charged to the
shares sold.
The taxpayer maintained several accounts with a brokerage house-"regular," "special," and "short." The "regular" and "special" accounts were "long" accounts. During the years 1934 and 1935 the taxpayer's "long" accounts
were credited with dividends on certain shares. During
the same years, her "short" account was charged with
dividends on shares of the same stock issues. The taxpayer
did not include in her income tax returns for 1934 and
1935 the dividends credited to her "long" accounts-on
the theory that the amount of stock which she owned was
not the number of shares credited to her in the "long"
accounts, but only the number of shares by which her
"long" position exceeded her "short" position in each of
the stock issues held in the several accounts. The Commissioner assessed deficiencies on the theory that the sales
made through the "short" account were in fact "short"
sales, and that the dividends charged to the "short" account represented additional cost of the shares and could
not be offset against the dividends credited to the "long"
accounts. Accordingly, he ruled that the taxpayer was
taxable on all of the dividends credited to her "long" accounts. On a petition for review, the Board of Tax Appeals
found that the sales made through the "short" account
were sales of shares held in the taxpayer's "long" accounts.
It therefore held that the dividends charged to the "short"
account should be offset against the dividend credits.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

42 B. T. A. 173. The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed.
124. F. 2d 156. We granted the petition for certiorari,
limited to the question whether the sales in the "short"
account were in fact "short" sales, because the action of
the Circuit Court of Appeals in setting aside the findings
of the Board on that issue was seemingly erroneous under the rul, of such cases as Helvering v. Lazarus & Co.,
308 U. S. 252.
'Ihe findings of the Board were substantially as follows:
The sales in- question were sales of shares of which the
taxpayer held an equal or greater number of the same
kind in her "long" accounts. In every such instance the
broker, acting under authority from the taxpayer to consider all her accounts as a unit, treated the sales through
the "short" account as sales of the taxpayer's "long"
shares. None of these sales was labeled as a "short" sale.
The broker required no margin and charged no "short"
sale tax. He credited the "short" account with-the proceeds and made an entry therein showing delivery of the
shares at the time of the execution of the sales to the
purchaser. In no such case did the broker borrow any
stock from other brokers or customers. Orders were executed on the stock exchange in the regular way, and delivery was made on the next full business day from certificates in "street" names held by the broker's New York
correspondents. Those "street" certificates included
shares held by the broker for the taxpayer, though none
of them was specifically designated as belonging to the
taxpayer. The taxpayer was allowed interest on the proceeds of sale. Dividends were collected for the taxpayer
only on the number of shares by which her "long" position exceeded her "short" position. On the other hand,
whenever the taxpayer's "long" accounts contained no
shares of the kind sold, the broker executed the sale as
a "short" sale, required the customary margin, charged
the "short", sale tax, and made delivery from borrowed

WILMINGTON CO. v. HELVERING.
164

Opinion of the Court.

stock. On the basis of such facts, the Board found that
"the sales in question were intended to be and were actually executed as ordinary sales, or sales of shares held"
in the taxpayer's "long accounts."
In overturning that finding of fact, the Circuit Court
of Appeals laid great emphasis on the manner in which the
transactions were entered on the taxpayer's books. It
also noted that gains or losses were not reported at the
moment of the sales, but only when the covering transaction was completed, and that the certificates used in completing the sales were in no way designated as belonging
to the taxpayer. And it also stated that it could not
be said that the broker did not use borrowed stock to make
deliveries on the "short" sales. On that aspect of the case,
respondent lays primary emphasis. The contention is
that the taxpayer's "long" stock was not "delivered" in
consummation of the sales in the "short" account, since
the broker merely made delivery out of certificates in
"street" names held by it or for its account, instead of
borrowing from other brokers, and since none of those
"street" certificates was in any way designated as the
taxpayer's. It is urged that, the facts being undisputed,
the question of whethr stock was borrowed to complete
the sales was a question of law as respects which the Board
did not have the final say.
The true character of the "short" account is a question
of fact to be determined in the light of the outward or
manifested intention of the taxpayer and the way in which
the account was actually managed. The designation of
the accounts, the fact that, as a matter of bookkeeping,
sales made through the "short" account apparently were
not reflected in the "long" accounts, the method of reporting gains or losses are some evidence to support the conclusion of the court below. But there are numerous other
circumstances which look the other way. They are embraced in the several subsidiary findings which the Board

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Syllabus.

316 U. S.

.made and which we have enumerated. Those findings
are supported by substantial evidence and are abundant
justification for the Board's ultimate finding that the sales
made through the "short" account were ordinary sales.
It is the function of the Board, not the Circuit Court of
Appeals, to weigh the evidence, to draw inferences from
the facts, and to choose between conflicting inferences.
The court may not substitute its view of the facts for that
of the Board. Where the findings of the Board are supported by substantial evidence they are conclusive. Helvering v. Lazarus & Co., supra; Helvering v. Kehoe, 309
U. S. 277, and cases cited. Under the statute, the court
may modify or reverse the decision of the Board only if it
is "not in accordance with law." 44 Stat. 110, 26 U. S. C.
ยง 1141 (c) (1). In this case the criteria which the Board
employed in determining whether the sales were "short"
sales complied with the legal principles announced in
Provost v. United States, 269 U. S. 443.
Reversed.
CHICAGO ET AL. v. FIELDCREST DAIRIES, INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 706.

Argued March 30, 31, 1942.-Decided April 27, 1942.

The issues involved in a suit in the District Court by a Michigan dairy
corporation against an Illinois city and its officials were: first,
whether a city ordinance requiring that milk be delivered in "standard milk bottles" should be interpreted as forbidding delivery in
paper containers; second, whether, if the ordinance were deemed
applicable, it was in conflict with an Illinois statute enacted while
the suit was pending; and third, whether, if applicable and valid
under the state law, it was invalid under the Federal Constitution.
Held that the case should be held by the federal courts to await the
outcome of a later suit in the state court in which another cor-

