WARD v. TEXAS.
53&

Opinion of the Court.

avoid the implication that such a question may not exist
because not discussed. On it I would also reserve judgment.
WARD v. TEXAS.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CRIMINAL APPEALS OF TEXAS.

No. 974. Argued May 6, 1942.--Decided June 1, 1942.
1. The use in a prosecution for murder of a confession obtained by
officers of the law by coercing the accused, is forbidden by the due
process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 555.
2. The evidence shows that law enforcement officers, acting beyond
their authority and in violation of state law, arrested without a
warrant an ignorant Negro, accused of murder, and took him by
night and day to strange towns in several counties; incarcerated
him in several jails; and by these means and by persistent questioning, coerced him to confess. The use of the confesion at the trial
voids the conviction. Pp. 550, 555.
158 S. W. 2d 516, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

post, p. 653, to review a judgment affirming

a sentence. The conviction was of murder without malice,
and the punishment assessed was confinement for three
years in the state penitentiary.
Messrs. Leon A. Ransom and W. Robert Ming, Jr. for
petitioner.
Messrs. Pat Coon, Assistant Attorney General of Texas,
and Spurgeon E. Bell, with whom Mr. Gerald C. Mann,
Attorney General, was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE BmNEs delivered the opinion of the Court.
Petitioner William. Ward, a negro, was indicted at the
September 1939 term of the District Qourt of Titus
County, Texas,. for the murder of Levi Brown, a white
man. He was placed on trial at that term but the jury

548

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U.S.

was unable to agree upon a verdict. At the January 1941
term he was again tried and found guilty of murder without malice, the jury assessing his'punishment at confinement in the state penitentiary for three years. Upon appeal the Court of Criminal Appeals reversed the judgment
of the District Court. On the State's motion for rehearing, the Court reversed itself and affirmed the judgment.
Petitioner's motion for rehearing was denied, one judge
dissenting. 158 S. W. 2d 516. A petition for a writ of certiorari was granted in farma pauperis.
The evidence introduced at the trial was such that the
jury could have drawn the following conclusions: The
deceased, who was seventy-two years old,.lived in Omaha,
in Morris county. He had previously resided at Mount
Pleasant, in the adjoining county of Titus. He went to
Mount Pleasant on Saturday, June 24,1939. On Saturday
eveni ng he was seen for the last time, talking to petitioner
and a negro woman on a street corner two and a half blocks
south of where his body was found. He then moved off
northward along the street followed at a little distance by
petitioner and the woman. A short time later petitioner
and the woman returned to the corner. They separated
there and she walked off to the south while he returned
in the direction in which the deceased had gone. The body
was discovered on Sunday morning lying in a field in grass
about knee high. There were no signs of a struggle and
no evidence of robbery. The skin on the neck was bruised
and discolored, the face was swollen and the eyes distended.
The front of the trousers was open and there was blood
on the tail of the shirt. For some time the deceased had
been afflicted with a heart ailment, and under advice of his
physician regularly took digitalis. He had taken a dose on
Saturday before leaving his home. The examing physician, however, found that death was due to strangulation.
;

WARD v. TEXAS.
547

Opinion of the Court.

The Court of Criminal Appeals in its final opinion denying petitioner's motion for a rehearing concluded: "It may
be stated bluntly that no conviction could be sustained in
the present case without the confession of appellant." The
details of the confession need not be recited. It is sufficient
to say that in it petitioner stated that under his agreement
with deceased he was to receive one dollar; that the deceased refused to pay him and cursed him and hit him; that
he grabbed the deceased, choked him for nearly five minutes, and not knowing whether he was dead or alive left
him on the ground.
Petitioner contends that this confession was signed by
him cnly after he had been arrested without a warrant,
taken from his home town, driven for three days from
county to county, placed in a jail more than 100 miles from
his home, questioned continuously, and beaten, whipped
and burned by the officer to whom the confession was
finally made. We granted certiorari in order to determine
Whether the confession yas the result of such coercion and
duress that its use by the State at the trial constituted a
denial of the due process of law guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment.
in its first opinion reversing the judgment of conviction,
the Texas Court of Criminal Appeals concluded that the
methods employed in obtaining the confession violated
applicable Texas statutes. It added that the reversal of
the conviction was "in keeping with the recent decision of
the Supreme Court t)f the United States in White v. State
of Texas, 310 U. S. 530," in which we set aside a conviction
because it was based upon a confession obtained by means
repugnant to the due process clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment. But in its second opinion reinstating the
judgment of conviction, the Court of Criminal Appeals decided that there was a conflict-of evidence with respect to
the issues upon which the admissibility of the confession

550

5OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

depended and that the question of admissibility was solely
for the jury and had been submitted with proper instructions. It concluded that "no matter what our personal belief might be, we do not feel that we have, nor do we usurp
the power to set aside the finding of this jury in the case
,at bar."
Each State has the right to pr~scribe the tests governing
the admissibility of a confession. In various States there
may be various tests. But when, as in this case, the question is properly raised as to whether a defendant has been
denied the due process of law guaranteed by the Federal
Constitution, we cannot be precluded by the verdict of a
jury from detefmining whether the circumstances under
which the confession was made were such that its admission in evidence amounts to a denial of due process.
The undisputed evidence shows that the signing of the
confession was preceded by the following events. Petitioner was employed as a house servant in Mount Pleasant by Judge S. B. Caldwell, a member of the bar of Titus
county. When the body of the deceased was discovered on
Sunday, June 25, petitioner was taken to the court house
-fr questioning along with several other negroes. He
pleaded his innocence. During the examination he was
slapped by a constable named Redfearn, who gave as his
reason that petitioner told him he '"didn't know what he
was talking about and Quilla Gaddis was a liar." Having
no justification for holding him in custody, the county attorney, at the request of Judge Caldvell, let petitioner return to his home. Thereafter, on Sunday and Monday, he
was questioned by officers several times and reiterated his
assertions of innocence. On Tuesday, the officers were still
questioning several negroes in connection with their investigation of the crime. According to the county attorney,
they had no evidence by Tuesday night to justify the arrest
of petitioner. On that night, while petitioner was attending a party at his church in Mount Pleasant, he was called

WARD v. TEXAS.
547

Opinion of the Court.

out, handcuffed, and taken into custody by, the sheriff of
Morris county, which adjoins Titus county. The sheriff
was not accompanied by any officer of Titus county. He
took petitioner and another negro in his car and drove
them out of the city to Hart's Creek, where he had arranged
to meet Constable Redfearn of Titus county, the man who
had slapped petitioner on Sunday. The officers then carried petitioner and two other negroes to Daingerfield in
Morris county, where the deceased had resided, then to
Pittsburg in Camp county, and then to Gilmer in Upshuri
county, where he spent the night in jail. On Wednesday
night he was taken back to jail in Pittsburg. Constable
Redfearn visited him from time to time, and on Thursday
morning took him to Tyler in Smith county, where Redfearn placed him in the custody of two highway patrolmen,
advising them of the details of the crime. About thirty
minutes later, the patrolmen carried petitioner to Athens,
in Henderson county, and turned him over to Sheriff
Sweeten. Athens is 110 miles from Mount Pleasant. During this time he had been questioned continuously. According to the county attorney of Titus county, who questioned petitioner in three different jails on three different
days, petitioner stated, once in Gilmer and again in Pittsburg, that he would be glad to make any statement that
"I wanted him to make but that he didn't do it." After
Sheriff Sweeten had talked to petitioner, the latter signed
the confession before a county attorney. Within six hours
after his arrival in Athens he was returned to Tyler. Eventually he was taken back to Gilmer, where he was kept until
the trial.
These facts axe not disputed. Petitioner's contention
that he was beaten, whipped and burned by Sheriff Sweeten
just before the confession was made, however, was squarely
denied. All of the Officers involved asserted that he had
not been mistreated, with the exception of the slap by Redfearn. Sweeten's explanation of how the confession was

'552

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

obtained was: "We just talked that confession out of him.
It took us 20 to 30 minutes to get that confession."

And

one of the patrolmen who took petitioner to the jail in
Athens stated: "We just talked to him to get that state4ment. Yes sir, we just sweet talked him out of it." 'Several witnesses who were not officers testified that they
had examined petitioner's body and found no bruises or
burns. Onlythe sheriff of Titus county corroborated petitioner's charges. He testified that when petitioner was
back in the Gilmer jail several days after the confession, "I
saw some marks on his neck and shoulders and
that
'appeared to be cigarette stub burns. Yes sir, arms
they were
fresh. There were several of them on his body."
Conceding that the question of physical mistreatment
was conclusively resolved by the jury's verdict, we return
to the admitted facts. There can be no doubt that from
first to last the officers acted without authority of law. The
sheriff of Morris county had no power to arrest petitioner
in Titus county. Without the boundaries of Morris county
he had no more authority than any private citizen. Ledbetter v. State, 23 Tex. App. 247, 5 S. W. 226; Hooper v.
Diesher, 113 S. W. 2d 966, 967. Nor did Constable Redfearn of Titus county have the right to take petitioner into
custody. Under Article 215 of the Texas Code of Criminal
Procedure, the sheriff must procure a warrant before making an arrest unless he has been advised by a credible person
that a felony has been committed and that the offender is
about to escape. See Rutherford v. State, 104 Tex. Cr.
127, 283 S. W. 512. And Article 217 provides that the person making the arrest must immediately take the person
arrested before the magistrate if the arrest is made without
a warrant. Neither the sheriff of Morris county nor Constable Redfearn made any effort to secure a warrant. Instead of taking petitioner to the nearest magistrate, they
took him away from the nearest magistrate. There was
no pretense that the arrest was made because of informa-

WARD v. TEXAS.
547

553

Opinion of the Court.

tion that he was about to escape. He had been released on
Sunday after his first detention, and on Tuesday evening
he was attending a party at his church, when the sheriff
of Morris county arrested him.
Petitioner contends that he was moved from Titus
county because the officers feared that if he were placed
in jail there Judge Caldwell would apply for a writ of habeas
corpus to secure his release, and because they would be
able to obtain the confession from him more easily in a
strange place. The State's answer is that the officers' purpose was to protect him from threatened mob violence..
In the first place, the procedure required by law was not
observed in making the removal. Article 262 of the Code
of Criminal Procedure provides that, if there is no safe jail
in the county in which the prosecution is carried on, the,
magistrate may commit the prisoner to the nearest safe
jail in any other county. Here no application was made to
a magistrate for a committal to a jail in another county.
In the second place, the evidence of threatened mob
violence is extremely vague and by no means adequately
explains the course of the officers' activities. The only testimony on this subject is that, in Morris county where deceAsed lived, one or two persons had expressed the opinion
that the man who killed him should be given a "neck-tie
.party," and that some people in Titus county had talked
.about the "possibility of threatening mob violence." Yet,
immediately after the arrest, petitioner was taken into
Morris county, where the feeling was supposedly running
highest. In conversation with two attorneys in Mount
Pleasant prior to the Tuesday night arrest, Constable Redfearn complained about "the trouble we were having in
questioning William Ward" because of Judge Caldwell's
interference.. At the trial he stated. "In moving the
defendant, as I have testified, the sole and only consideration in doing so was to get a statement from the negro
in talking to him alone or in connection with others who

554

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

possibly knew something about the crime and I was protecting him against rumors of possible mob violence."
Rolston, county attorney of Titus county, was asked at the
trial whether the reason for taking petitioner out of Titus
county was to prevent Judge Caldwell "from getting out a
writ of habeas corpus." He replied: "I do not know
whether that is all the reason or not. I didn't advise the
officers to take him out. . . . I know there was some plan
on foot to take him out." And he testified further: "It is
a fact that Mr. Redfearn and some of the other officers told
me about the Edwards negro, that they were going to try
to get them out of Mount "Pleasant and question her and
then question William and try to confront the two with
'the statement of each other and try to get them to break
down and tell the truth about it."
Speaking of the conduct of the officers, the Court of
Criminal Appeals in its first opinion said: "We give effect
to the good faith and intent of the officers in moving appellant out of Titus county in order to secure his safety.
Yet we cannot subscribe to the idea that it was necessary to
carry him 110 miles, to Athens, Texas, for that purpose.
That such was not the reason appellant was carried to
Athens is demonstrated by the fact that he was kept there
only twenty or thirty minutes,' and was carried back to
Tyler immediately after he had made the confession. The
conclusion is inescapable that he was carried to Athens as
part of the plan to 'get a statement from the negro,' and
which had failed up to that time." We are not persuaded
that the initial removal of petitioner from Titus county
was prompted by fear for his safety, but we concur in the
1

Itappears from the record that petitioner was actually in Athens
for several hours. However, the significant fact that he was returned
to Tyler immediately after signing the confession is not controverted.
It is difficult to imagine that the object in carrying him from Tyler toAthens was to secure him from harm.

WARD v. TEXAS.
547

Opinion of the Court.

Texas Court's opinion as to the motive that prompted the
officers to transport him as far as Athens.
The effect of moving an ignorant negro by night and
day to strange towns, telling him of threats of mob violence, and questioning him continuously is evident from
petitioner's statement to County Attorney Rolston that
he would be glad to make any statement that Rolston
desired. Disregarding petitioner's claims that he was
whipped and burned, we must conclude that this confession was not free and voluntary but was the product of
coercion and duress, that petitioner was no longer able
freely to admit or to deny or to refuse to answer, and that
he was willing to make any statement that the officers
wanted him to make.
This Court has set aside convictions based upon
confessions extorted from ignorant persons who have been
subjected to persistent and protracted questioning, or
who have been threatened with mob violence, or who have
been unlawfully held incommunicado without advice of
friends or counsel, or who have been taken at night to
lonely and isolated places for questioning.2 Any one of
these grounds would be sufficient cause for reversal. All
of them are to be found in this case.
The use of a confession obtained under such circumstances is a denial of due process, and the judgment of
conviction must be reversed.
Reversed.

I'Wan v. United States, 266 U. S. 1, 14; Brown v. Mississippi, 297
U. S. 278; Chambersv. Florida,309 U. S. 227, 241; Canty v. Alabama,,
309 U. S. 629; White v. Texas, 310 U. S. 530; Lomax v. Texas, 313 U.
S. 544; Vernon v. Alabama, 313 U. S. 547.

