OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Syllabus.

316 U.S.

propriate occasion to state that we now believe that it
also was wrongly decided. Certainly our democratic form
of government, functioning under the historic Bill of
Rights, has a high responsibility to accommodate itself
to the religious views of minorities, however unpopular
and unorthodox those views may be. The First Amendment does not put the right freely to exercise religion in
a subordinate position. We fear, however, that the opinions in these and in the Gobitis case do exactly that.

WALLING, ADMINISTRATOR OF THE WAGE AND
HOUR DIVISION, U. S. DEPARTMENT OF LABOR, v. A. H. BELO CORPORATION.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 622.

Argued April 6, 1942.-Decided June 8, 1942.

1. Nothing in the Fair Labor Standards Act bars an employer from
contracting with his employees to pay them the same wages that
they received previously, so long as the new rate equals or exceeds
the minimum required by the Act. P. 630.
2. An employer whose employees worked irregular hours and were
paid fixed weekly salaries, entered into contracts with them, individually, which in each case specified a basic rate of pay per hour,
for the maximum hours fixed by the Act, and not less than one and
one-half times that rate per hour for overtime, with a guaranty
that the employee should receive each week for regular time and
overtime not less than an amount specified. Under this plan, the
employee worked more than the statutory maximun. regular hours
before he became entitled to any pay in addition to the weekly
guaranty, but when he worked enough hours to earn more than the
guaranty, the surplus time was paid for at 150% of .the "basic," or
contract, rate. His compensation equalled or approximated that
which he was receiving when the Act went into effect, and exceeded
the minima which the Act prescribes. Held:

WALLING v. BELO CORP.
624

Opinion of the Court.

(1) That the rate per hour so agreed on was the "regular rate"
within the meaning of § 7 (a) (3) of the Act where it provides that
for overtime the employee shall receive compensation "at a rate
not less than one and one-half times the regular rate for which
he is employed." P. 630.
(2) The intention of the parties to fix, the amount per hour
specified in the contract was consistent with their intention to
guaranty the specified weekly income. P. 631.
(3) The Act does not prohibit paying more for overtime than
150% of the basic rate. p. 632.
(4) The contract conforms to the intention of the Act. Overnight Motor TransportationCo. v. Missel, ante, p. 572, distinguished.
P. 634.
121 F. 2d 207, affirmed.

CERTIORARi, 314 U. S. 601, to revew the affirmance of
a decree of the Circuit Court.of Appeals which dismissed a
bill brought by the Administrator, of the Wage and
Hour Division, Labor Department, to enjoin the respondent from adhering to a wage system, based upon contracts with its employees, which plaintiff attacked as
contrary to wage and hour provisions of the Fair Labor
Standards Act. In the District Court this case was tried
with another in which the present respondent obtained
a declaratory judgment against certain of its employees.
See 35 F. Sup'p. 430, 36 F. Supp. 907.
Solicitor General Fahy, with whom Messrs. Arnold'
Raum, Warner W. Gardner,Irving J. Levy, Mortimer B.
Wolf, Jacob D. Hyman, George B. Searls, Walter T. Nolte,
and Norman S. Altman were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Maurice E. Purnell, with whom Mr. Eugene P.
Locke was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE BYRNES delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is a proceeding by the Administrator of the Wage
and Hour Division of the Department of Labor to restrain
the respondent corporation from alleged violation of the

626

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

Fair Labor Standards Act.'

316 U. S.

The Administrator sought to

prevent the use by respondent, under certain contracts

with its employees, of wage agreements deemed by the
Administrator violative of the time and a half for over-

time provisions of § 7 (a) 2 as implemented by §§ 15 (a) (1)
and (2).3
1

Enforcement of the requirements of the Act by injunction is author-

ized by § 17. "The district courts of the United States and the United
States courts of the Territories and possessions shall have jurisdiction,
for cause shown, and subject to the provisions of section 20 (relating to
notice to opposite party) of the Act entitled 'An Act to supplement
existing laws against unlawful restraints and monbpolies, and for other
purposes,' approved October 15, 1914, as amended (U. S. C., 1934 edition, title 28, sec. 381), to restrain violations of section 15." 52 Stat.
1069; 29 U. S. C. § 217.
2"Sec.
7. (a) No employer shall, except as otherwise provided in
thissection, employ any of his employees who is engaged in commerce
or in the production of goods for commerce(1) for a workweek longer than forty-four hours during the first
year from the effective date of this section,
(2) for a workweek longer than forty-two hours during the second
year from such date, or
(3) for a workweek longer than forty hours after the expiration
of the second year from such date,
unless such employee receives compensation for his employment in
excess of the hours above specified at a rate not less than one and onehalf times the regular rate at which he is employed." 52 Stat. 1063;
29 U. S. C. § 207.
'"Sec. 15. (a) After the expiration of one hundred and twenty
days from the date of enactment of this Act, it shall be unlawful for
any person(1) to transport, offer for transportation, ship, deliver, or sell in
commerce, or to ship, deliver, or sell with knowledge that shipment
or delivery or sale thereof in commerce is intended, any goods in the
production of which any employee was employed in violation of s ction
6 or section 7, or in violation of any regulation or order of the Administrator issued under section 14; except that no provision of this Act
shall impose any liability upon any common carrier for the transportation in commerce in the regular course of its business of any goods not
produced by such common carrier, and no provision of this Act shall

WALLING v. BELO CORP.
624

Opinion of the Court.

The respondent, a Texas corporation, is the publisher of
the Dallas Morning News and other periodicals, and the
owner and operator of radio station WFAA. It has some
600 employees. Those in the mechanical departments
work under a collective bargaining agreement and are not
involved in the present dispute. The others, and particularly those in the newspaper business, work irregular
hours. Prior to the effective date of the Act, October 24,
1938, respondent had been paying all but two or three of
these employees more than the minimum wage required
by the Act. They received vacations of approximately
two weeks each year at full pay; special bonuses at the end
of the year amounting to approximately one week's earnings; and full pay during periods of illness, sometimes continuing for weeks and sometimes for months. At the time
of the trial, 28 superannuated employees were carried on
the payroll at full rates of pay. Employees were permitted
absences to attend to personal affairs without deductions
from pay. When they were required to work long hours
in any week, they were given compensating time off in succeeding weeks. Life insurance was carried for them at respondent's expense.
After the enactment of the Fair Labor Standards Act
but before its effective date, respondent endeavored to
adjust its compensation system to meet the requirements
of the Act by negotiating a contract with each of its employees except those in the mechanical departments.
These contracts were in the form of letters stating terms
which were agreed to by the employees. The following is
a typical letter:
excuse any common carrier from its obligation to accept any goods for
transportation;
(2) to violate any of the provisions of section 6 or section 7, or any
of the provisions of any regulation or order of the Administrator issued
under section 14; . . ." 52 Stat. 1068; 29 U. S. C. § 215.

628

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

"The Fair Labor Standards Act which goes into effect
on October 24, 1938, provides for the following minimum
wages and maximum hours of employment:
"First year-250 per hour minimum
44 hours maximum per week
"Second year--300 per hour minimum
42 hours maximum per week
"Third year-40€ per hour minimum 4
40 hours maximum per week
except that employees may work more than the number of
hours specified above, provided that overtime rates shall
be a minimum of one and one-half times the basic rate.
"In order to conform..our employment arrangements to
the scheme of the Act without reducing the amount of
money which you receive each week, we advise that from
and after October 24, 1938, your basic rate of pay will be
• . . 67 . . . cents per hour for the first forty-four hours
each week, and that for time over forty-four hours
each week you will receive for each hour of work not less
than one and one-half time such basic rate above mentioned, with a guaranty on our part that you shall receive
weekly, for regular time and for such overtime as the
necessities of the business may demand, a sum not less
than $40. . ....
In most cases, as in this example, the specified hourly rate
was fixed at 1/60th of the guaranteed weekly wage. The
result was that during the first year under the Act, when
the statutory maximum of regular hours was 44, the employee was required to work 541 hours before he became
entitled to any pay in addition to the weekly guaranty.5
4'In

later letters this misstatement, immaterial here, was corrected.

The minimum wage for the first 40 hours remains 30 cents until October
24, 1945. See § 6 of the Act.
544 hours at 67 cents equals $29.48; 101/2 hours at the statutory
minimum overtime rate of. $1.00 (150%X$.67) equals $10.50; $29.48
plus $10.50 equals $39.98.

WALLING v. BELO CORP.
624

Opinion of the Court.

When the employee worked enough hours at the contract
rate to earn more than the guaranty, the surplus time was
paid for at the rate of 150% of the hourly contract wage.
If the employee received an increase in pay, the hourly rate
and weekly rate were readjusted.
For eighteen months the system embodied in these contracts was followed to the apparent satisfaction of employer and employees. Respondent was then advised that
the arrangement was in violation of the Act and that it
was liable to its employees in an amount of from 30 to 60
thousand dollars. It was informed by the regional director
in Dallas and by an official in the Administrator's office in
Washington that an employee's complaint had precipitated the investigation. These officials declined to give
the name of the employee.
Respondent thereupon brought suit for a declaratory
judgment in the District Court for the Northern District
of Texas, joining the regional director and three of its
employees as defendants. The defendant employees
answered that they and all the other employees affected
by the system approved of it. The regional director moved
to dismiss on two grounds, one of which was that he represented none of the employees. The motion to dismiss was
denied. 35 F. Supp. 430. In the meantime, petitioner
instituted this suit to enjoin respondent from continuing
to operate the wage system based upon its contracts with
its employees. The two suits were consolidated and tried
together. The District Court entered a declaratory judgment for the respondent and dismissed the bill for an injunction. 36 F. Supp. 907.
Petitioner. appealed. to the Circuit Court of Appeals
from the dismissal of its complaint. That Court affirmed
the judgment of the District Court. 121 F. 2d 207. It
found that the contracts were "actual bona fide contracts
of employment" and that "they were intended to, and did,
really fix the regular rates at which each employee was

*630

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

employed." We granted c ertiorari because of the importance of the question in the administration of the Act.
It is no doubt true, as petitioner contends, that the purpose of respondent's arrangement with its employees was
to permit, as far as possible, the payment of the same total
weekly wage after the Act as before. But nothing in the
Act bars an employer from contracting with his employees
to pay them the same wages that they received previously,
so long as the new rate equals or exceeds the minimum
required by the Act.'
The Act requires that for each hour of work beyond the
statutory maximum, the employees must be paid "not less
than one and one-half times the regular rate at which he
is employed." This case turns upon the meaning of the
words "the regular rate at which he is employed." Re'Section 18 provides: "No provision of this Act shall justify any
employer in reducing a wage paid by him which is in excess of the
applicable minimum wage under this Act, or justify any employer in
increasing hours of employment maintained by him which are shorter
than the maximum hours applicable under this Act." Whatever the
legal effect of this language, it is certainly not a prohibition and the
Administrator does not rely upon it. The finding of the Circuit Court
of Appeals that respondent's effort to maintain the weekly incomes of
its employees at their pre-Act level was in good faith gains support
from the circumstance that at the very time when respondent was formulating its new wage policy the Wage and Hour Administrator
declared:
"Clerical forces, we all feels are included in the Act. But I cannot
see where there is going to be any practical difficulty there because
your clerical force in any plant of any consequence certainly is earning
on a basis of more than 25 cents an hour weekly wages divided by the
hours they work. If they are well above 25 cents an hour,,it seems to
-me that there would not be much question about time and a half for
overtime, because you could figure in that weekly wage that time and
a half over the 44 hours had been given consideration as remunerationfor their full week's pay."
Speech before the Southern States Industrial Council at Birmingham, Alabama, on September 29, 1938. 3 Wage and Hour Reporter
228.

WALLING v. BELO CORP.
624

Opinion of the Court.

spondent contends that the regular rate under the illustrative contract, which is set out above and to which we shall
refer throughout, is 67 cents an hour. Petitioner argues,
however, that the 67 cents hourly rate mentioned in the
contract is meaningless and that the agreement is, in effect, for a weekly salary of $40 without regard to fluctuations in the number of hours worked each week. Treating
the contract as one for a fixed weekly salary, he urges that
the regular hourly rate for any single week is,the quotient
of the $40 guaranty divided by the number of hours actually worked in that week.7 Under this formula the employee is entitled to the regular hourly rate thus determined for the first 44 hours "each week and to not less than
one and one-half times that rate for each hour thereafter.
In its initial stage the question to which this dispute
gives rise is a question of law, a question of interpretation
of the statutory term "regular rate." But it is agreed that
as a matter of law employer and employee may establish
the "regular rate" by contract. In the case before us, such
an effort has been made, and in the example given the regular rate has been specified as 67 cents an hour. The diffi-"
culty arises from the inclusion of the $40 guaranty. The
problem is whether the intention of the parties to set 67
cents an hour as the regular rate squares with their intention to guarantee a weekly incomd of $40. The Administrator's position is that these two objectives are inherently
inconsistent and that the intention to fix the regular hourly
rate at 67 cents is overridden by the intention to guarantee
the $40 per week.
We cannot agree. In the first place, when an employee
works more than 541/2 hours in a single week, he is admittedly entitled to more than the $40 guarantee. The record
'This has been the Administrator's interpretation of the Act, as set
forth in Interpretative Bulletin No. 4, issued October 21, 1938 and revised in November, 1940.
For the first year after passage of the Act; now 40 hours.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U.S.

shows that in such a case, the employee is paid at the rate
of $1.00 an hour (150% X $.67) for each hour of overtime.
In this situation, then, it is clearly the guaranty that becomes inoperative and the 67 cent hourly rate fixed by the
contract that is controlling.
In the second place, although it is perfectly true that
when the employee works less than 541 hours during the
week his pay is determined by the $40 guaranty, it does
not dispose of the problem simply to say this. The question remains whether the $40 contemplates compensation
for overtime as well as basic pay. The contract says that
the employee is to receive 67 cents an hour for the first 44
hours and "Not less than one and one-half time such basic
rate" for each hour over 44. Consequently, if an employee
works 50 hours in a given week, it might reasonably be
-said that his $40 Wage consists of $29.48 for the first 44
hours (44 X $.67) plus $10.52 for the remaining six hours
(6 X $1.753). To be sure, $1.753 is more than 150% of
$.67. But the Act does not prohibit paying more; it requires only that the overtime rate be "not less than" 150%
of the basic rate. It is also true that under this formula the
overtime rate per hour may vary from week to week. But
nothing in the act forbids such fluctuation.
The gist of the Administrator's objection to this interpretation is that both the basic rate and the overtime rate
are so "artificial" that the parties to the contract cannot
fairly be supposed to have intended.that it be so construed.
It cannot be denied that the flexibility of the overtime rate
is considerable, but this flexibility may well have been intended if it was the only means of securing uniformity in
weekly income. Moreover, under the Administrator's interpretation, the regular rate in the example given is $40
divided by the number of hours worked each week. Since
the number of hours worked fluctuates so drastically from
week to week, this "regular" rate is certainly "irregular"
in a mathematical sense. And inasmuch as it cannot be

WALLING v. BELO CORP.
624

Opinion of the Court.

calculated until after the workweek has been completed,
it is difficult to say that it is "regular" in the sense that
either employer or employee knows what it is or can plan
on the basis of it.
The artificiality of .the method urged by the Administrator is accentuated by the nature of his counter-proposal
of two plans by which the weekly wage of an employee
whose hours vary from week to week may be stabilized.
One of these officially approved plans is known as the
"time-off plan" and is explained in Interpretative Bulletin
No. 4. Under this plan the employment must be placed
upon an hourly rate basis with no mention of a guaranty.
The pay days must be spaced at intervals of two weeks
or longer. If the pay period is set at two weeks and the
employee is required to work overtime during the first
week, he is given sufficient time off during the second week
to keep his paycheck at a constant level. In our view, this
counter-proposal far exceeds in technicality the plan
adopted by respondent. Moreover, its operation is to provide a ceiling but not a floor for the wage. Since the pay
is by the hour and there is no guaranty, in a pay period in
which an employee works few hours, his wage may fall far
below the level aimed at.
The other officially approved arrangement is known as
the "pre-payment plan," and is also explained in Bulletin
No. 4. Under this plan, virtually the same arrangement
as that which we have been using as an example can stand.
That is to say, an employee may be promised 67 cents an
hour for the first 44 hours, $1.00 for each hour over 44,9
with a guaranty of $40 a week. However, in any week in
which the employee's earnings at the stated hourly rates
do not equal the $40 guaranty, the balance necessary to
fulfill the guaranty must be treated as a loan to him. If
It should be noted that respondent's contract, set out above, does not
fix $1.00 as the hourly rate for overtime. Instead it provides that the
overtime rate shall be "not less than one and one-half" times 67 cents.

634

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U.S.

in any succeeding week his earnings at the stated hourly
rates exceed the guaranty, the excess is withheld by the
employer as a repayment of the loan. But if his earnings
do not exceed the guaranty in any succeeding week, and
after receiving his pay check he does not return to work, the
employer is presumed to make an effort to collect the
excess amount paid to the employee in a previous week.
If the employer does not recover this excess amount, then
for all practical purposes the plan operates just as does
the plan followed by the respondent in this case. About
the only difference is that one is called a "guaranty plan,"
while the other is called a "pre-payment plan." In the
opinion of the Administrator, the "pre-payment plan" is
lawful; the "guaranty plan" is unlawful.
But the guaranty contract in this case carries out the
intention of the Congress. It specifies a basic hourly rate
of pay and not less than time and a half that rate for
every hour of overtime work beyond the maximum hours
fixed by the Act. It is entirely unlike the Missel case,
ante, p. 572. In the contract in that case, there is no stated
hourly wage and no provision for overtime. Under the
decision in that case, an employer who engages a worker
for a fixed weekly wage of $40 for irregular hours and works
him 65 hours (in a year when the maximum workweek is
44 hours), owes the employee $46.38. See Missei case.
For the same hours under the Belo contract, at the hourly
contract rate of 67 cents, the worker would receive $50.48.
There is a difference in compensation, but that is the agreement of the parties and it is within the letter and the
intention of the law.
The problem presented by this case is difficult-difficult
because we are asked to provide a rigid definition of "regular rate" when Congress has failed to provide one. Presumably, Congress refrained from attempting such a definition because the employment relationships to which
the Act would apply were so various and unpredictable.

WALLING v. BELO CORP.
624

RED, J., dissenting.

And that which it was unwise for Congress to do, this Court
should not do.. When employer and employees have
agreed upon an arrangement which has proven mutually
satisfactory, we should not upset it and approve an inflexible and artificial interpretation of the Act which finds
no support in its text and which as a practical matter eliminates the possibility of steady income to employees with
irregular hours. Where the question is as close as this
one, it is well to follow the Congressional lead and to afford
the fullest possible scope to agreements among the individuals who are actually affected. This policy is based
upon a common sense recognition of the special problems
confronting employer and employee in businesses where
the work hours fluctuate from week to week and from day
to day. Many such employees value the security of a
regular weekly income. They want to operate on a family
budget, to make commitments for payments on homes and
automobiles and insurance. Congress has said nothing to
prevent this desirable objective. This Court should not.
Affirmed.
MR. JUsTICE REED,

dissenting:

The Court holds, "When employer and employees have
agreed upon an arrangement which has proven mutually
satisfactory, we should not upset it and approve an inflexible and artificial interpretation of the Act which finds no
support in its text and which as a practical matter eliminates the possibility of steady income to employees with
irregular hours." Yet it is recognized by the Court that
the validity of the contract "turns upon the meaning of
the words 'the regular rate at which he is employed,'" the
phrase left undefined by Congress, which it is said the
courts also should leave undefined and flexible. Not only
does the Court's conclusion assume that the typical Belo
contract conforms to the Fair Labor Standards. Act by the
provision for hourly wages and time and a half for over-

636

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Rtn, J., dissenting.

316 U. S.

time, but, in the opinion just announced, the Court approves this type contract for hiring, "so long as the new
rate equals or exceeds the minimum required by the Act."
In so deciding, the Court gives the phrase "regular rate"
an interpretation as' inflexible and artificial as that which
it condemns.
The Court's interpretation that, in the absence of bad
faith, any form of contract which assures the payment of
the minimum wage and the required overtime complies
with the Act may be assumed to be correct. But since
the overtime hours must be compensated "at a rate not
less than one and one-half times the regular rate at which
he is employed," § 7 (a) (3), the regular rate cannot be left
without "definition," !'flexible" or unfound for this case.
And once so found, it itust be applied to the circumstance*
of this litigation. No all-inclusive definition will be attempted. The possibilities--of variation in contracts are
too great. Certainly, however, the Court does not mean to
say that the employer and employee may capriciously
select a certain figure, unrelated to the wages paid, and
say "That is the regular rate of employment." Every contract of employment is assumed, by the statute, to contain,
a "regular rate," and for each contract it -is a legal, not a
factual, conclusion. What that rate is here is the object of
our inquiry. Once determined for this case, that conclusion becomes a precedent for other similar contracts
and so, in one sense; whether we wish it or not, a definition
to be applied in the administration of the Act.
This Court accepts the view that the Fair Labor Standards Act was intended not only to put a floor under wages
but al~o a ceiling over hours. The limitation of hours in
turn had two purposes-the spreading of work and extra
compensation for overtime, no matter how high the regular
wage may be. Overnight Motor TransportationCo. v.
Missel, ante, pp. 572, 577. Since overtime pay must at
least equal time and a half the regular rate, as § 7 (a)

WALLING v. BELO CORP.
624

R=, J., dissenting.

specifies, employers and employees may not be permitted
to contract in avoidance of the statutory requirement.
Contracts for a regular rate per hour conform easily to the
requirements, but contracts for compensation in other
forms compel an analysis of their terms to find the regular
rate. Fixed salaries, as this Court agrees today in
Missel's case, are to be reduced to hourly rates on the basis
of a week as the unit of time. Belo's contract contains
elements both of hourly wage and fixed weekly wage contracts. We come then to this point. Are the contracts
here involved for weekly wages with variable hours, or
for hourly rates with time and a half of such rates for overtime? If the latter, respondent contends the Act has left
him free to contract with his employees at such hourly
regular rates as may be agreed upon, limited only by the
minimum wage requirements. As a court, we must appraise the nature of these contracts and, in my judgment,
they are agreements for weekly wages for variable hours,
with a provision for additional compensation per hour
contingent upon work in excess of an ascertainable number of hours--the number of hours of work required for
the wages earned under the hourly wage terms of the contract to equal the guaranty.1 Until these hours are exceeded, the stipulated wage per hour has no demonstrable
effect.
The contracts stated they were drawn to comply with
the "scheme of the Act without reducing" weekly wages.
The hourly rate was customarily written as one-sixtieth
of the weekly wages. The overtime above the maximum
hours was set at 150% of the hourly wage or one-fortieth
of the weekly. This was then followed by a guaranty that
the employee should "receive weekly," for regular and
overtime, the former weekly wage. This guaranty was the
dominating feature of the contract. Without the guaranty, the adoption of a low hourly rate would encounter
1 Cf.

Carleton Screw Products Co. v. Flemdng, 126 F. 2d 537.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
R=ED, J., dissenting.

316 U. S.

the full weight of employee bargaining power. The guaranty avoids this conflict by fixing the minimum weekly
wage. This guaranty controls the weekly wage up to 541/2
hours of work, the number of hours contracted for by Belo
without paying more than the fixed weekly wage. In a
54 hour week or less, the regular rate should be the guaranty divided by the hours actually worked.
It Seems obvious that the guaranty was the heart of the
arrangement. The effect of the contract in the illustrative
case is to pay 73 cents an hour for 'work up to 54 hours
and $1.00 (expressed in the circumlocution of time and
a half 67 cents) for overtime beyond those hours, with a
guaranty that there will be $40 worth of work each week.
The '"basic" hourly rate, the hours contracted for at the
'basic rate and the stated percentage paid for overtime may
the guaranty
be varied without effect on earnings provided
fixed.2
and real overtime rate are kept
The employee willing, the number of hours which must
to earn the guaranty can be increased by suit-,
be
ableworked
adju tment of the contract figures of hourly
rate,
hours contracted and overtime percentages. By such a
'An example will illustrate the lack of significance, of ' the other

numbers in the contract. Varying rates, hours and overtime percentages
are substituted for those in the Belo contract quoted in the Court's
opinion.. "In order to conform our employment arrangements to the
scheme of the Act without reducing the amount of money which you
receive each week, we advise that from 'and after October 24, 1938,_
your basic rate of pay will be [50] cents per hour for the first [29]
hours each week, and that for time over [29] hours each week you will
receive for each hour of work not less than [double] time such basic
rate above mentioned, with a guaranty on our part that you shall
receive weekly, for regular time and for such overtime as the necessities
of the business may demand, a sum not less than $40.00."
29 hoursX$.50-$14.50. 54.5 hours-29 fiours=25.5 hours at
$1.00 per hour-$25.50. Time plus overtime-$40.00. Thereafter the employee receives $1.00 per hour.
The same is true of a basic rate of $.60 for 364 hours and time and
two-thirds thereafter, with a guaranty of $40.

WALLING v. BLO CORP.
624

REED, J., dissenting.

verbal device, astute management may avoid many of the
disadvantages of ordinary overtime, chief of which is a
definite increase in the cost of labor as soon as the hours.
worked exceed the statutory workweek. If the intention
of Congress is to.require at least time and a half for overtime work beyond a fixed maximum number of hours (40,
42: or 44 hours), that intention is frustrated by today's
holding. Under Missel's case, an employer who engages a
worker for a fixed weekly wage of $40 for irregular hours
and works him 54 hours a week in a year with a 44 hour
maximum, owes $43.86. Under the Belo contract, the
worker would receive $40. Because there is no increase
of labor cost between the statutory maximum and the
hours contracted for (54 2), the employer has a financial
inducement to require hours beyond the statutory
maximum.
As pointed out above, this contract is not only an agreement to pay a fixed wage, $40.00, for variable hours up to
541/, but there is a provision for additional compensation
for the hours over the contract maximum. Where the
hours worked exceed the number necessary to entitle the
employee to hourly pay under the contract, equal in the
aggregate to the guaranty, the employee is entitled to receive his regular rate for the statutory maximum hours and
150% of that rate for all overtime. The contracts in most
instances fixed the basic rate at one-sixtieth of the guaranty, but the effect of the guaranty, in our view, is to make
the regular rate of employment for the precise number of
hours necessary under the contract to earn the guaranty,
the quotient of the guaranty divided by the hours.' For
8

Weekly guaranty--40.

Hours worked-54%.

Straight hourly

contract wage-$4060=$.66%.. Straight contract hours-44.
44X$.66%=$29.33 3 . Overtime hourly contract wage-1.00. Overtime contract hours-10%. 10%X$1=$10.66%. 'Total contract wage
paid-S$40. Statutory regular rate-40: 54%-$.732 per hour. Statutory maximum hous-44. 44X$.732=$32.20. Statutory overtime

640

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Row, J., dissenting.

316 U. S.

the surplus hours over 541/ the same regular rate continues to be applicable.'
It is the guaranty which gives character to these contracts, which determines the amount to be received by the
employee under its terms, except in the instances of work
beyond 541/2 hours. It is only work beyond the 541/2 hours
which calls for extra pay from the employer. Consequently it seems proper to find the regular rate of employment by using the guarantee as the dividend and the maximum hours possible without increased contract pay as the
divisor. The objection that this permits statutory overtime pay to be computed on contract overtime pay springs
from the wording of the contract making the guarantee
cover overtime up to the 541/2 hours. This objection loses
its force with the determination that the guaranty fixes
the quality of the contract, rather than the so-called basic
or hourly rate of pay.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals should
be reversed and this action remanded to the District Court
for further proceedings.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK, MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS

JUSTICE MURPHY

and MR.

join in this dissent.

rate-1.098. Statutory overtime hours=10%. 10%X$1.098=$11.71.
Total required compensation-$43.91.
'Hours worked-60. Statutory maximum hours--44. Regular
rate--$.732. 44X$.732=$32.20. Statutory overtime hours-16. Overtime rate-$1.098. 16X$1.098=$17.57. Total required compensation-$49.77.

