SKINNER v. OKLAHOMA.
Syllabus.

527

and not the antecedent steps in connection with a plan of
reorganization. Thus the contention seems to be that,
since a gain arose from a transaction which was separate
and distinct from and anterior to the exchange of property
for the new securities, it must be recognized under the general rule of § 112 (a). We express no view on that contention. The deficiencies were not assessed on that transaction but only upon the exchange of stock and securities
in the new corporation for bonds of the old. We will not
consider here for the first time the question whether a tax
liability may have been incurred under § 112 (a) by reason
of the earlier transaction, a question not fairly within the
issues as framed by the Commissioner and hence not decided below.. Cf. Helvering v. Wood, 309 U. S. 344, 349.
Affirmed.

SKINNER v. OKLAHOMA EX REL. WILLIAMSON,
ATTORNEY GENERAL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF OKLAHOMA.

No. 782.

Argued May 6, 1942.--Decided June 1, 1942.

1. A statute of Oklahoma provides for the sterilization, by vasectomy
or salpingectomy, of "habitual criminals"-an habitual criminal being defined therein as any person who, having been convicted two or
more times, in Oklahoma or in any other State, of "felonies involving
moral turpitude," is thereafter convicted and sentenced to imprisonment in Oklahoma for such a crime. Expressly excepted from
the terms of the statute are certain offenses, including embezzlement.
As applied to one who was convicted once of stealing chickens and
twice of robbery, held that the statute violated the equal protection
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 537.
2. The State Supreme Court having sustained the Act, as applied to
the petitioner here, without reference to a severability clause, the
question whether that clause would be so applied as to remove the
particular constitutional objection is one which may appropriately
be left for adjudication by the state court. P. 542.
189 Okla. 235, 115 P. 2d 123, reversed.

536

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

CERTIORARI,

316 U. S.

315 U. S. 789, to review the affirmance of

a judgment in a proceeding under the Oklahoma Habitual
Criminal Sterilization Act, wherein it was ordered that the
defendant (petitioner here) be made sterile.
Messrs. W. J. Hulsey, H. I. Aston, and Guy L. Andrews
submitted for petitioner.
Mr.Mac Q. Williamson,Attorney General of Oklahoma,
for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAs

delivered the opinion of the Court.

This case touches a sensitive and important area of human rights. Oklahoma deprives certain individuals of a
right which is basic to the perpetuation of a race-the
right to have offspring. Oklahoma has decreed the enforcement of its law against petitioner, overruling his claim
that it violated the Fourteenth Amendment. Because that
decision raised grave and substantial constitutional questions, we granted the petition for certiorari.
The statute involved is Oklahoma's Habitual Criminal
Sterilization Act. Okla. Stat. Ann. Tit. 57, §§ 171, et seq.;
L. 1935, pp. 9 4 et seq. That Act defines an "habitual criminal" as a person who, having been convicted two or more
times for crimes "amounting to felonies involving moral
turpitude," either in an Oklahoma court or in a court of
any other State, is thereafter convicted of such a felony
in Oklahoma and is sentenced to a term of imprisonment
in an Oklahoma penal institution. § 173. Machinery is
provided for the institution by the Attorney General
of a
proceeding against such a person in the Oklahoma courts
for a judgment that such person shall be rendered sexually
sterile. §§ 176, 177. Notice, an opportunity to be heard,
and the right to a jury trial are provided. § § 177-181. The
issues triable in such a proceeding are narrow and con-

SKINNER v. OKLAHOMA.
535

Opinion of the Court.

fined. If the court or jury finds that the defendant is an
"habitual criminal" and that he "may be rendered sexually
sterile without deteriment to his or her general health,"
then the court 'shall render judgment to the effect that
said defendant be rendered sexually sterile" (§ 182) by
the operation of vasectomy in case of a male, and of salpingectomyjn case of a female. § 174. Only one other provision of the Act is material here, and that is § 195, which provides that "offenses arising out of the violation of the prohibitory laws, revenue acts, embezzlement, or political offenses, shall not come or be considered within the terms
of this Act."
Petitioner was convicted in 1926 of the crime of stealing chickens, and was sentenced to the Oklahoma State
Reformatory. In 1929 he was convicted of the crime of
robbery with firearms, and was sentenced to the reformatory. In 1934 he was convicted again of robbery with firearms, and was sentenced to the penitentiary. He was confined there in 1935 when the Act was passed. In 1936 the
Attorney General instituted proceedings against him. Petitioner in his answer challenged the Act as unconstitutional by reason of the Fourteenth Amendment. A jury
trial was had. The court instructed the jury that the
crimes of which petitioner had been convicted were felonies
involving moral turpitude, and that the only question for
the jury was whether the operation of vasectomy could be
performed on petitioner without detriment to his general
health, The jury found that it could be. A judgment directing that the operation of vasectomy be performed on
petitioner was affirmed by the Supreme Court of Oklahoma
by a five to four decision. 189 Okla. 235, 115 P. 2d 123.
Several objections to the constitutionality of the Act
have been pressed upon us. It is urged that the Act cannot be sustained as an exercise of the police power, in view

538

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

of the state of scientific authorities respecting inheritability
of criminal traits.' It is argued that due process is lacking
because, under this Act, unlike the Act 2 upheld in Buck v.
Bell, 274 U. S. 200, the defendant is given no opportunity
to be heard on the issue as to whether he is the probable
potential parent of socially undesirable offspring. See
Davis v. Berry, 216 F. 413; Williams v. Smith, 190 Ind.
526, 131 N. E. 2. It is also suggested that the Act is penal
in character and that the sterilization provided for is cruel
and unusual punishment and violative of the Fourteenth
Amendment. See Davis v. Berry, Supra. Cf. State v.
Feilen, 70 Wash. 65, 126 P. 75; Mickle v. Henrichs, 262 F.
687. We pass those points without intimating an opinion
on them, for there is a feature of the Act which clearly condemns it. That is, its failure to meet the requirements of
the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
We do not stop to point out all of the inequalities in this
Act. A few examples will suffice. In Oklahoma, grand larceny is a felony. Okla. Stats. Ann. Tit. 21, §§ 1705, 5.
Larceny is grand larceny when the property taken exceeds
$20 in value. Id. § 1704. Embezzlement is punishable "in
the manner prescribed for feloniously stealing property of
the value of that embezzled." Id. § 1462. Hence, he who
embezzlps property worth more than $20 is guilty of a
felony. A clerk who appropriates over $20 from his employer's till (id. § 1456) and a stranger who steals the same
'Healy, The Individual Delinquent (1915), pp. 188-200; Sutherland,
Criminology (1924), pp. 112-118, 621-622; Gillin, Criminology and
Penology (1926), c. IX; Popenoe, Sterilization and Criminality, 53 Rep.
Am. Bar. Assoc. 575; Myerson et al., Eugenical Sterilization (1936), c.
VIII; Landman, Human Sterilization (1932), c. IX; Summary of the
Report of the American Neurological Association Committee for the
Investigation of Sterilization, 1 Am. Journ. Med. Jur. 253 (1938).
'And see State v. Troutman, 50 Ida. 673, 299 P. 668; Chamberlain,
Eugenics in. Legislatures and Courts, 15 Am. Bar Assn. Journ. 165;
Castle, The Law and Human Sterilization, 53 Rep. Am. Bar Assoc., 556,
572; 2 Bill of Rights Review 54.

SKINNER v. OKLAHOMA.
535

Opinion of the Court.

amount are thus both guilty of felonies. If the latter repeats his act and is convicted three times, he may be
sterilized. But the clerk is not subject to the pains and
penalties of the Act no matter how large his embezzlements
nor how frequent his convictions. A person who enters a
chicken coop and steals chickens commits a felony (id. §
1719); and he may be sterilized if he is thrice convicted.
If, however, he is a bailee of the property and fraudulently
appropriates it, he is an embezzler. Id. § 1455. Hence, no
matter how habitual his proclivities for embezzlement are
and no matter how often his conviction, he may not be
sterilized. Thus, the nature of the two crimes is intrinsically the same and they are punishable in the same manner. Furthermore, the line between them follows close distinctions-distinctions comparable to those highly technical ones which shaped the common law as to "trespass" or
"taking." Bishop, Criminal Law (9th ed.) Vol. 2, §§ 760,
799, et seq. There may be larceny by fraud rather than embezzlement even where the owner of the personal property
delivers it to the defendant, if the latter has at that time
"a fraudulent intention to make use of the possession as
a means of converting such property to his own use, and
does so convert it." Bivens v. State, 6 Okla. Cr. 521, 529,
120 P. 1033, 1036. If the fraudulent intent occurs later
and the defendant converts the property, he is guilty of
embezzlement. Bivens v. State, supra;Flohrv. Territory,
14 Okla. 477,78 P. 565. Whether a particular act is larceny
by fraud or embezzlement thus turns not on the intrinsic
quality of the act but on when the felonious intent arosea question for the jury under appropriate instructions.
Bivens v. State, supra;Riley v. State, 64 Okla. Cr. 183, 78
P. 2d 712.
It was stated in Buck v. Bell, supra,that the claim that
state legislation violates the equal protection clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment is "the usual last resort of constitutional arguments." 274 U. S. p. 208. Under our con-

540

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.:

stitutional system the States in determining the reach
and scope of particular legislation need not provide "abstract symmetry." Patsone v. Pennsylvania, 232 U. S.
138, 144. They may mark and set apart the classes and
types of problems according to the needs and as dictated
or suggested by experience. See Bryant v.-Zimmerman,
278 U. S. 63, and cases cited. It was in that connection
that Mr. Justice Holmes, speaking for the Court in Bain
PeanutCo. v. Pinson,282 U. S. 499, 501, stated, "We must
remember that the machinery of government would not
work if it were not allowed a little play in its joints."
Only recently we reaffirmed the view that the equal protection clause does not prevefit the legislature from recognizing "degrees of evil" (Truax v. Raich, 239 U. S. 33, 43)
by our ruling in Tigner v. Texas, 310 U. S. 141, 147, that
"the Constitution does not require things which are different in fact or opinion to be treated in law as though they
were the same." And see Nashville, C. & St. L. Ry. v.
Browning, 310 U. S. 362. Thus, if we had here only a
question as to a State's classification of crimes, such as embezzlement or larceny, no substantial federal question
would be raised. See Moore v. Missouri, 159 U. S. 673;
Hawker v. New York, 170 U. S. 189; Finley v. California,
222 U. S. 28; Patsonev. Pennsylvania,supra. For a State
is not constrained in the exercise of its police power to
ignore experience which marks a class of offenders or a
family of offenses for special treatment. Nor is it prevented by the equal protection clause from confining "its
restrictions to those classes of cases where the- need is
deemed to be clearest." Miller v. Wilson, 236 U. S. 373,
384. And see McLean v. Arkansas, 211 U. S. 539. As
stated in Buck v. Bell, supra, p. 208, ". . . the law does
all that is needed when it does all that it can, indicates
a policy, applies it to all within the lines, and seeks to
bring within the lines all similarly situated so far and so
fast as its means allow."

SKINNER v. OKLAHOMA.
535

Opinion of the Court.

But the instant legislation runs afoul of the equal protection clause, though we give Oklahoma that large deference which the rule of the foregoing cases requires. We
are dealing here with legislation which involves one of the
basic civil rights of man. Marriage and procreation are
fundamental to the very existence and survival of the race.
The power to sterilize, if exercised, may have subtle, farreaching and devastating effects. In evil or reckless hands
it can cause races or types which are inimical to the dominant group to wither and disappear. There is no redemption for the individual whom the law touches. Any experiment which the State conducts is to his irreparable injury.
He is forever deprived of a basic liberty. We mention
these matters not to reexamine the scope of the police
power of the States. We advert to.them merely in emphasis of our view that strict scrutiny of the classification
which a State makes in a sterilization law is essential, lest
unwittingly, or otherwise, invidious discriminations are
made against groups or types of individuals in violation of
the constitutional guaranty of just and equal laws. The
guaranty of "equal protection of the laws is a pledge of the
protection of equal laws." Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S.
356,369. When the law lays an unequal hand on those who
have committed intrinsically the same quality of offense
and sterilizes one and not the other, it has made as invidious a discrimination as if it had selected a particular race
or nationality for oppressive treatment. Yick Wo v. Hopkins, supra;Gainesv. Canada,305 U. S.337. Sterilization
of those who have thrice committed grand larceny, with
immunity for those who are embezzlers, is a clear, pointed,
unmistakable discrimination. Oklahoma makes no attempt to say that he who commits larceny by trespass or
trick or fraud has biologically inheritable traits which he
who commits embezzlement lacks. Oklahoma's line between larceny by fraud and embezzlement is determined,
as we have noted, "with reference to the time when the.

542

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S

fraudulent intent to convert the property to the taker's
own ue" arises. Riley v. State, supra, 64 Okla. Cr. at p.
189, 78 P. 2d p. 715. We have not the slightest basis for
inferring that that line has any significance in eugenics,
nor that the inheritability of criminal traits follows the
neat legal distinctions which the law has marked between
those two offenses. In terms of fines and imprisonment,
the crimes of larceny and embezzlement rate the same
under the Oklahoma code. Only when it comes to sterilization are the pains and penalties of the law different. The
equal protection clause would indeed be a formula of empty
words if such conspicuously artificial lines could be drawn.
See Smith v. Wayne ProbateJudge, 231 Mich. 409, 420421,204 N. W. 40. In Buck v. Bell, supra, the Virginia statute was upheld though it applied only to feeble-minded
persons in institutions of the State. But it was pointed out
that "so far as the operations enable those who otherwise
must be kept confined to be returned to the world, and thus
open the asylum to others, the equality aimed at will be
more nearly reached." 274 U. S. p. 208. Here there is no
such saving feature. Embezzlers are forever free. Those
who steal or take in other ways are not. If such a classification were permitted, the technical common law concept
of a "trespass" (Bishop, Criminal Law, 9th ed., vol. 1, §
'566, 567) based on distinctions which are "very largely
dependent upon history for explanation" (Holmes, The
Common Law, p. 73) could readily become a rule of
human genetics.
It is true that the Act has a broad severability clause."
But we will not endeavor to determine whether its applica'Sec. 194 provides:
"If any section, sub-section, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of
this Act shall be declared unconstitutional, or void for any other reason
by any court of final jurisdiction, such fact shall not in any manner invalidate or affect any other or the remaining portions of this Act, but

SKINNER v. OKLAHOMA.
535

STONE,

C. J., concurring.

tion would solve the equal protection difficulty. The Supreme Court of Oklahoma sustained the Act without reference to the severability clause. We have therefore a situation where the Act as construed and applied to petitioner
is allowed to perpetuate the discrimination which we have
found to be fatal. Whether the severability clause would
be so applied as to remove this particular constitutional
objection is a question which may be more appropriately
left for adjudication by the Oklahoma court. Dorchy v.
Kansas, 264 U. S. 286. That is reimphasized here by our
uncertainty as to what excision, if any, would be made as
a matter of Oklahoma law. Cf. Smith v. Cahoon,283 U. S.
553. It is by no means clear whether, if an excision were
made, this particular constitutional difficulty might be
solved by enlarging on the one hand or contracting on the
other (cf. Mr. Justice Brandeis dissenting, National Life
Ins. Co. v. United States, 277 U. S.508, 534-535) the class
of criminals who might be sterilized.
Reversed.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE, concurring:

I concur in the result, but I am not persuaded that we
are aided in reaching it by recourse to the equal protection
clause.
if Oklahoma may resort generally to the sterilization of
criminals on the assumption that their propensities are
transmissible to future generations by inheritance, I seriously doubt that the equal protection clause requires it to
apply the measure to all criminals in the first instance, or
to none. See Rosenthal v. New York, 226 U. S.260, 271;
the same shall continue in full force and effect. The Legislature hereby
declares that it would have passed this Act, and each section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof, irrespective of
the fact that any one or more other sectiuns, sub-sections, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional."

544

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
STbNE,

C. J., concurring.

316 U. S.

Keokee Coke Co. v. Taylor, 234 U. S. 224, 227; Patsone v.
Pennsylvania,232 U. S. 138, 144.
Moreover, if we must presume that the legislature
knows--what science has been unable to ascertain-that
the criminal tendencies of any class of habitual offenders
are transmissible regardless of the varying mental characteristics of its individuals, I should suppose that we must
likewise presume that the legislature, in its wisdom, knows
that the criminal tendencies of some classes of offenders
are more likely to be transmitted than those of others. And
so I think the real :question we have to consider is not one
of equal protection, but whether the wholesale condemnation of a class to such an invasion of personal liberty, without opportunity to any individual to show that his is not
the type of case which would justify resort to it, satisfies
the demands of due process.
There are limits to the extent to which the
presumption
of constitutionality can be pressed, especially where the
liberty of the person is concerned (see United States v.
CaroleneProducts Co., 304 U. S. 144, 152, n. 4) and where
the presumption is resorted to only to dispense with a procedure which the ordinary dictates of prudence would seem
to demand,.for the protection of the individual from arbitrary action. Although petitioner here was given a hearing to ascertain whether sterilization would be detrimental
to hiq health, he was given none to discover whether his
criminal tendencies are of an inheritable type. Undoubtedly a state may, after appropriate inquiry, constitutionally interfere with the personal liberty of the individual
to prevent the transmission by inheritance of his socially
injurious tendencies. Buck v. Bell, 274 U. S. 200. But
until now we have not been called upon to say that it may
do so without giving him a hearing -and opportunity to
challenge the existence as to him of the only facts which
could justify so drastic a measure.

SKINNER v. OKLAHOMA.
535

STONE,

C. J., concurring.

Science has found and the law has recognized that there
are certain types of mental deficiency associated with delinquency which are inheritable. But the State does not
contend-nor can there be any pretense-that either common knowledge or experience, or scientific investigation,1
has given assurance that the criminal tendencies of any
class of habitual offenders are universally or even generally
inheritable. In such circumstances, inquiry whether such
is the fact in the case of any particular individual cannot
rightly be dispensed with. Whether the procedure by
which a statute carries its mandate into execution satisfies
due process is a matter of judicial cognizance. A law which
condemns, without hearing, all the individuals of a class to
so harsh a measure as the present because some or even
many merit condemnation, is lacking in the first principles
of due process. Morrison v. California,291 U. S. 82, 90,
and cases cited; Taylor v. Georgia,315 U. S. 25. And so,
while the state may protect itself from the demonstrably
inheritable tendencies of the individual which are injurious to society, the most elementary notions of due process
would seem to require it to take appropriate steps to safeguard the liberty of the individual by affording him, before he is condemned to an irreparable injury in his person,
some opportunity to show that he is without such inheritable tendencies. The state is called on to sacrifice no permissible end when it is required to reach its objective by a
reasonable and just procedure adequate to safeguard rights
of the individual which concededly the Constitution protects.
'See Eugenical Sterilization, A Report of the Committee of the American Neurological Association (1936), pp. 150-52; Myerson, Summary
of the Report, 1 American Journal of Medical Jurisprudence 253; Popenoe, Sterilization and Criminality, 53 American Bar Assn. Reports 575;
Jennings, Eugenics, 5 Encyclopedia of the Social Sciences 617, 620-21;
Montagu, The Biologist Looks at Crime, 217 Annals of American Academy of Political and Social Science 46.

[Over]

546

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
JACKSON,

MR.

JUSTICE JACKSON

J., concurring.

316 U. S.

concurring:

I join the CHIEF JUSTICE in holding that the hearings
provided are too limited in the context of the present Act
to afford due process of law. I also agree with the opinion
of MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS that the scheme of classification
set forth in the Act denies equal protection of the law. I
disagree with the opinion of each in so far as it rejects or
minimizes the grounds taken by the other.
Perhaps to employ a broad and loose scheme of classification would be permissible if accompanied by the indi-

vidual hearings indicated by the CHIEF JUSTICE. On the
other hand, narrow classification with reference to the end
to be accomplished by the Act might justify limiting individual hearings to the issue whether the individual belonged to a class so defined. Since this Act does not present
these questions, I reserve judgment on them.
I also think the present plan to sterilize the individual
in pursuit of a eugenic plan to eliminate from the race
characteristics that are only vaguely identified and which
in our present state of knowledge are uncertain as to transmissibility presents other constitutional questions of gravity. This Court has sustained such an experiment with
respect to an imbecile, a person with definite and observable characteristics, where the condition had persisted
through three generations and afforded grounds for the
belief that it was transmissible and would continue to
manifest itself in generations to come. Buck v. Bell, 274
U. S. 200.
There are limits to the extent to which a legislatively
represented majority may conduct biological experiments
at the expense of the dignity and personality and natural
powers of a minority-even those who have been guilty of
what the majority define as crimes. But this Act falls down
before reaching this problem, which I mention only to

WARD v. TEXAS.
53&

Opinion of the Court.

avoid the implication that such a question may not exist
because not discussed. On it I would also reserve judgment.
WARD v. TEXAS.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CRIMINAL APPEALS OF TEXAS.

No. 974. Argued May 6, 1942.--Decided June 1, 1942.
1. The use in a prosecution for murder of a confession obtained by
officers of the law by coercing the accused, is forbidden by the due
process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 555.
2. The evidence shows that law enforcement officers, acting beyond
their authority and in violation of state law, arrested without a
warrant an ignorant Negro, accused of murder, and took him by
night and day to strange towns in several counties; incarcerated
him in several jails; and by these means and by persistent questioning, coerced him to confess. The use of the confesion at the trial
voids the conviction. Pp. 550, 555.
158 S. W. 2d 516, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

post, p. 653, to review a judgment affirming

a sentence. The conviction was of murder without malice,
and the punishment assessed was confinement for three
years in the state penitentiary.
Messrs. Leon A. Ransom and W. Robert Ming, Jr. for
petitioner.
Messrs. Pat Coon, Assistant Attorney General of Texas,
and Spurgeon E. Bell, with whom Mr. Gerald C. Mann,
Attorney General, was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE BmNEs delivered the opinion of the Court.
Petitioner William. Ward, a negro, was indicted at the
September 1939 term of the District Qourt of Titus
County, Texas,. for the murder of Levi Brown, a white
man. He was placed on trial at that term but the jury

