FEBRUARY,

1806.

5o3

situation than before,. for she will receive her usual supb the loss of the carrying
plies and we shall be weakened by
trade. ,

SANDS
V.

K OX.

Bayard, contra, was stopped by the court.
MARSHALL, Ch.

J.

If the question is not involved, whether probable cause
will justify- the seizure and detention ; if there are no
facts in the pleadings which show a ground to suspect
that there was no bonafide sale and transfer of the vessel,
the court does not wish to hear any argument on the part
of the defendant in error.,
It considers the point as settled by the opinion given
in the case of the Charniing Betsey, with which opinion
the court is-well satisfied.
The law did not intend to affect the sale of vessels of
the United States, or to impose any disability on the vessel, after a bonafde salu and transfer to a foreigner.
Judgment affirmed.

RANDOLPH v. WARE.
RA'%DOL U
t.

THIS was an appeal from a decree of the circuit A promise
court, for the district of. Virginia, which dismissed the by a merchant's factor
complainant's bill in equity.
that he would

write to his

Ware, the executor (f Jones, surviving partner of the principal
to
t
insurance
house of Farrel and Jones, British merchants, had in
ne,doesnot
the same court, at June term, 18q, obtained a decree bind
the prin.
aglinst William Randolph, administrator de bonis non, cipal to inwith the will annexed, of Peyton Randolph, for a large sure.

504
IANDOLPH

V

SUPREME 'COURT' U. S.

sum of money, with liberty to William Randolph to file

this bill against Ware, for relief in regard to 50 hogsheads
of' tobacco,

shipped in September, 1771, in the ship

Planter, captain Cawsey, and consigned to Farrel and
Jones ; a credit-for which had been claimed, but was by
the decree disallowed.
'The tobacco nev'er came to the hands of Farrel and
Jones, having been lost at sea without being insured.
The-appellant contended, that-he was entitled to a credit for the customary insurance price of the tobacco,
viz. 101. per hogshead with interest.

1. Because, from the usage of the trad6 between the
Virginia planter and 'the British merchant, it was the
duty of the latter to have insured the tobacco, and that
having failed so to do, he is responsible as insurer.
2. Because Thomas 'Evans, the appellee's agent for
soliciting consignments and managing this business, having promised to get the insurance done, it is equivalent
to the promise of his principals, Farrel and Jones, and
they' re responsible for the consequences.
3. It was contended, that the claim, under all circumstances disclosed in the record, if nOt fit to be decreed,
according to the prayer of the bill, appears to be of a nature proper to be decided in a court of law, inp'rsuance
.of an order of the court of equity, and therefdre, that
the decree should. be reversed, and an order -made, directing a trial at law, to ascertain whether the 'appellee is
not liable to the appellant for the value of the tobacco,
and interest from the month of September, 1772, as
standing in the place of insurer thereof.
C..Lee, for the appellant.
1. The common course of the trade was, for the
British merchant to cause insurance to be made, up-,
on notice of the shipment of the tobacco : and it appears by the letters exhibited in thi *record, that Farrel
and Jones did, without any special orders, cause insurance to be made on some of the tobacco shipped by
Randolph's executors.

FEBRUARY, 1806.

5.0s

Thus, in their letter of August 1, 1769, to Richard Rkimlr-rX
V.
Randolph, they say, "we have made the following insurWAflB
ance on the True Patriot," for the-two esthtes, viz. 480.
on 40 hogsheads,, W. Randolph's estate; 8161. on 68
hogsheads, P. Randolph's," but say dothing of having
teceived orders therefor. And again, Augist 10, 1769,
".we have made 8161. insurance on the True Patriot,on
68 hogsheads which captain Cawsey informs .us he is to
have."
It is true, that on the 15th of August, 1771, they gay,
h"Captain Cawsey writes us that he is promised 67
hogsheads of the estate's tobacco, but we have received
no ordersforinsurance." But they had received no orders for the insurance -they made in August, 1769i on
the 68 hogsheads which captain Cawsey informed them
he was to have. The executors had a right to expect,
that as Farrel& Jones had made insurance without qrders, on the 68 hogsheads, by the Tiue Patriot, they
would also have insurance made on the 50 hogsheadqiby
the Planter.
The appellee's amended answer, put -in after this
point 'was kndwn, does not pretend that any orders were
given for the insurance, made in 1769, on the 68 hogsheads. And in the accounts of Farrel & Jones, there
are many charges of premiums on insurances, for which
no orders appear to have been given.
2- B-ut the deposition of -P. L. Grymes, goes to establish an agreement, on the part of Evans, the aqgentof
Farrel & Jones, to *get insurance done upon the 50
hogsheads in question.
This-deposition is corroborated by the fact, that in the
correspondence produced, there is no letter of the executors, respecting- the shipment of that parcel of tobacco.
They relied, altogether, upon the promise of Evans.
-

No argufiaent against the claim can arise from the
length of time which elapsed before it was made. The
estate of Randolph was acknowledged to be indebted ; the
executors, therefore, would not bring a suit. It was time
enough to exhibit their'.claim when suit -was brought
3T
VoL IL

SUPREME COURT U. S.
RA,

OLVIu

V.

against them.

Besides, from 1774 to 1783, the war in-

terposed ; after that time until the-suit was brought, the
courts ofcours
justice
absolutely sor o legal
mei
o were
wer aboluelyshut,
ea mpedijutic
ments existed to the recovery of British debts. The executors, also, might have been igworant of their right.
This suit, therefore, ought to be considered us if it hid
been instituted in 1775.
3. This is a claim proper to be settled in a court of liiw.
There is a difference between a case where the chancellor will order an issue at law to be tried, to satisfy or inform his conscience, and where the whole claim is a
matter properly cognizable at law.
P. B. Key, contra.
1. There is no evidence"in the record of such a genera? usage of the trade, as is contended for by the appellant.
And if there had been, the voluminous correspondence,
exhibited in the cause, shows most clearly, that it did not
exist in the negotiations between the present parties.'
For it proves, that in almost every instance, where the
Randolphs shipped tobacco, they ordered insurance to
be made at the time they gave notice of the shipment.
Farrel & Jones, in their letter of August 6th, 1770,
(stated in the appellee's answer) say, " We made no in.
surance on the Virginian, though we were a little uneasy
that so large a quantity as 66 hogsheads were ventured
home withotit it, for it is our rule not to make any insurance, without orders, upon tobacco ; -which you will
please to remember."
On the 15th of August, 1271, they say, " Captain
Cawsey writes us that he is promised 67 hogsheads of the
estate's tobacco, but we have received no orders for in'surance.")
On the 17th of September, 1771, the tobacc0'in
question, was shipped. On the loth of December, 1771,
Farrel & Jones write to the Sandolphs as. follows:
" We wrote you the 15th of August, by th True Patriot, captain Aselby, to.which we refer. We observe by
our agent Mr. Evans' letter, that you have shipped 50
hogsheads of the estate's tobacco, on board captain Cawsey, and it gives us great 'concern to find you ordered no

FEBRUARY, 1806.

507

insurance on them, though we *rote you in August 1770, 1i,..I
that we never made any insurance on tobacco, without
W.
orders ; as we are niuch afraid some accident has hapw
pened to him. He has now been sailed from Virginia
twelve weeks, and by accounts we have from captains
who sailed from America about that time, he must have
had dreadful weather in a few days after he came out.
We think there is no other chance for him, but that he
has lost his masts and obliged to bear away for the WestIndies."
In their letter to the
they say, "1You have
count current to the
favour £
if any

Randolphs of 4th April, 1772,
also, inclosed, the estate's acSist December, balance in nur
error, you will please to advi'e

And in August 15, 1772, they say, " As yet we
have received no orders for insu-ance on the Elizabeth,
on account of the estate. If any tobacco is shipped in
her, we hope to receive directions'in time to prevent
tA like accident as happened last year."
On 23d of April, 1773, they shy, " Having settled
the account current agreeable to what Mr. Evans wrote
us, wesendit to you inclosed. Balance in our favour
'
if an' error, please to advise."
C
On tue 1Oth of August, 1774, they write, " You have
also, inclosed, the estate's account current to 31st December last; balance in our favour £
if any
error,please to advise."
And on the 1oth of March, 1773, they sent the estate's account current to 31st of December, with the
same request, 11 if any error, please to advise."
Re~e the correspondence was closed by the war;
after-which, in 1783, the house of Farrel & Jones sent
out an agent, Mr. Hanson, who was known as such to
the Randolphs, and who, in that capacity, transacted
business with them, and who continued in Virgmi
until the year 1800.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
RANDOLPH
t

WARE.
m

During the whole of this period, of nearly 30 year,
not a syllable was said of'any claim against Farril &
Jones, on account of the 50 hogsheads of tobacco, lost
it the Planter.
In addition to all this, it appeared, by the exhibits in
this cause, thai some time in June, 1772, after the loss
of the tobacco. was kno vn to the Randolphs, tht'y gave
their bond, ante-dated on the 1st of January, 1772, for
thco balance then due, without any credit being given for
the 16st tobacco.
2. But it is contended, that Farrel & Johes had, in
some instances, made. insurance without orders, and,
therefore, they were bound-to do it 'in this instance.
We deny the fact. Although, in one 6r -two in.
stanc'es, F. & J. hhve, in their letters, mentioned hav.
ing made insurance, without stating it to be by order,
yet it does not follow that no orders were given. And
the whole gen'eral tenor, of the correspondence shows,
that it was not their usual practice to insure without
orders.
3. The appellant relies upon the affidavit of Grymes,
to show that Evans, the agent of Farrel & Jos,
lro.
mised to have insurance done.
This affidavit appears in the transcript of the record,
without date, place or circumstance. It does not appear to have been sworn before any magistrate cpmpe.
tent to administer an oath, and no cross-examination,
nor any thing to show upon what occasion it was made.
It is uncertain in itself, uncorroborated by any other
part of the testimony, andinconsistent with the general
ten'or of it. He says the conversation happehed early
in the year; but the tobacco was shipped in September.
His words are, " He the said Evans informed the
aforesaid Peyton and Richard Randolph, that he was
writing to the aforesaid house of Farrel & Jones, that
he would direct insurance to be made," "and that
they need give themseives no further'trouble in the
business."

FEBRUARY, 1806.

509

'The long time which had elapsed before this depo. P:-Aroxpn
sition was made, (probably 30 years) renders its con-.V.
tents of very little weight, especially as there were a
number of shiipments of tobacco made at differenttimeg
in the same ship, and he swears the contersation happened early in the year. It appears from the correspondence, that early in the year preceding, viz. 177O,
the same ship had been loaded with tobacco at the same
place; and this renders it probable that Mr. Grymes
hacL mistaken the year.
But admitting that it.proves all that is contendedyet Evans was not competent to bind his principal to
insure; it was nota matter within his agency.
JoHNsox, J. I found my opinion in this case upon
a single consideration. It was incumbent on the ap.
pellant to show that Evans' neglecting to comply with
his promise to insure, m'ade Farrel & Jones liable. I
think it did not, because it appears that Farrel &-Jones
did not geneially hold themselves bound to insure
shipments of tobacco, without receiving express instructions to do so. It was, therefore, incumbent upon
the executors of Randolph to communicate, such in.structions to Farrel & Jones. If they confided in the
promise of Evans to give these instructions, it w~as to
their own prejudice.
And although the failure of
Evans to do so, certainly made him personally liable
to them, yet it could not produce a liability in Farrel
& Jones. So far as Evans was entrusted to do an act
incumbent on the appellant's -testator himsel r to do, he
was the agent of the executors of Randolph, and not of
Farrel & Jones.
WASHINGTON, J.
In this case it appears that a
letter was writter.by-Farrel & Jones, in August, 1770,
notifying the executors of Randolph, that they would
not make insurance without orders. " And it is shown
also, that the Ran dolphs were *accustomed to give orders for insurance whenever they wished to have it
made. Whatever then may be the general uslage of
the trade, it will not apply to the present case.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
fltANVOLPH

V.

WALk.

The deposition of Grymes comes in a very question.
able shape. It speaks of things 30 years ago, and in

~ very uncertain lapguage.

But admitting for a moment
that it applies to this shipment, Evans had not authorIty to bind his principal by a promise to insure. He
did not promise for them, bit promised for himself,
that he would write to them to make insurance. This,
it'is admitted, he did not do. Are Farrel & Jones
liable for his personal engagement ?

But the deposition of Grymes is not orly uncorrobo.
rated, but opposed by the other evidence in the cause.
If the Randolphs relied upon this supposed engagement
of Evans, why did they give their bond in 1772, nine
months after the loss, and long after they had notice
of the- loss, for the balance of the account, without
demanding a credit for the lost tobacco? Three' ac.
counts current were sent them for the years 1772, 1773
and 1774, t several times, and they 'were requested
at each time to examine them, and, if they contained
any error, to advise Farrel & Jones of it. By not do.
ing this, they have given strong evidence that there
was no such agreement with Evans, that there was no
error in the accounts, and that Mr. Grymes must have
been mistaken, or that his deposition refers to some
other transaction.
PATERSON, J. The complainant filed a cross bill
t6 obtain credit for 50 hogsheads of tobacco, which
were shipped on board the Planter,the 17th September,
1771, by Richard and Peyton Randolph, executors of
Win. Randolph, and consigned to Farrel & Jones,,
merchants, at Bristol, in England. The tobacco was
not insured. The Planter foundered at sea, and the
tobacco was lost. The questi6n is, who shall sustain
the loss? It is contended, on the part of the representatives of the Randolphs, that Farrel & Jones ought to
have insured the tobacco, and not having done so, they
have made themselves liable to the amount, as if it had
been insured. To establish this position, the counsel
for the complainan has taken the following ground&.

1st. From the nature and usage of the trade between
the Virginia planter. and the English merchant. it was

FEBRUARY, 1806

5it

the duty of the latter to have insured the tobac'eo, and RA:naaw
failing so to do,-he is responsible as the insurer.
2d. That Thomas Evans the agent of Farrel &
Jones, having prpmised to have insurance made, it is
equivalent to the promise of his principals, Farrel &
Jones, and they are responsible for the consequences.
As to the first point, no uslage has been proved. And
if an usage did exist, this case was taken out of it; as
it appears by the whole course of correspondence between the parties, that Farrell & Jones never did insure
tobacco without orders; and that the Randolphs gave
them orders to effect insurances on tobacco, whenever
they thought it expedient or necessary.
Great stress is laid on the contract, which it is stated
was enteked into between the Randolphs and Thomas
EvAns, Lte agent of Farrel & Jones. The contract is
founded on the deposition of Philip Grymes. This
deposition is certainly open to the strictures which~have
been made upon it by the counsel on the part of the
defendant. It does not appear when, and before whom,
the deposition was taken. The deposition is ex parte,
for neither the defendant or his attorney had an opportunity to cross-examine the witness. If it was taken at
6r about the time that the bill was filed, then itis liable
to the objections resulting from the frailty and uncertainty of memory, and the misconception or misconstruction of words used in a general conviersation, after
along period of time, exceedingtwenty years. Besides,
the quantity of tobacco to be insured was not mentioned
in the course of the conversation, nor does it appear,
that it wa' at any time afterwards communicated to
the agent; and unleis the quantity was ascertained, an
Iow this paper, purinsurance could not be effected.
porting to be a deposition, became annexed to the bill,
I have not been able to discover from the proceedings;
and if itbe admitted as a piece of evidence in the cause,
its credit is much impaired in consequence of the observations already made.
The acts of the agent bind the principal; and suppQ$ing Evans to have been the general agent of Farrel

SUPREME COURT U. S.
RANDoLP1"

wAz

& Jones, it may well be questioned, whether his under.

taking to insure, is obligatory upon them; cs. it is
manifest, from the. correspondence between the Randblphs-.and" -Farrel, & Jones, that the latter. did not
insure tobacco without express orders for that purpose;
that the Randolphs wrote to them.to insure, when they
deefied an insurance proper. The fair inference is, tfiat
if 'Evans engaged to have an insurance made in this
instance by Farrel & Jones, it was'a, personal contract
on his'part, which bound himself and ,noother, and for
the performance of which he was responsible in his
'private character. Orders-for insurance were invarlably transmitted by the Randolphs to'Fairel & Jones,
and not communicated to them through the medium of
Evans, -unless the present should be cotidideed at an
exception. Under such circumstances, the Randolphs,
if they-frelled' o1rtthe 'promise of. Evans, must look tohim individually, and. not through him to Farrel &
Jones.. By thispromise, Evans bound himselfi aid
not.the firm.
The house of Farrel &' Jones transmitted' annually
their accolints to the Randolphs ; they did so for the
year 1771, after the loss of the tobacco, which it is ad"mitted was not p'ssed to the credit of the Randoiphs.
The bond given for the balance is dated the 1st January,
1772, though, from the letter of the 4th April, 1772, it
was not, probably, executed till some months after its
date,. It was made to bear date the 1st January, 1772,
t"t it,might correspond with the accounts rendered, and
carty' interest fromi that period. Farrel k Jones an4uahly rendered r~gular andstated accounts, to the Rand6lphs of their mutual dedlingsiin the ye.rs 1712, I773,
*and-1774 ; and in a letter of the former* to ithe latier,
Farrel' i Jones particularly requested,' that errors, if
any .oc.urred, sh6uld be pointed'out, that they might be
rectified. Bixt ,the Randolphs'made no objectionsthey made no mention of the tobacpo which was lost, nor
did they ever iftimate an opinion, that Farrel & Jones
were liable for its'amount. Why ihis silence, this acquiescence ? The'period of the war we will let, pass without
animmdversion, as no dealings -or communication took
place between ,the parties. Evans died in 1178. In
1780 Hanson was appointed the'agent 'of Farrel &
Jones, It was never suggested to'Hanso , that thu Ran-

FEBRUARY, 1806.

513

W.&lZ
dolphs, or their representatives; claimed an allowance for
RANDOLPH.
Farto
charge
was
manifested
the tobaccb ; no intention
rel and Jones with it, until an action was commenced
on the bond, in 1793, or 1794, when, for the first time, a
claim was set up for the tobacco. Mr. Lee has endeavoured to account for this silence and acquiescence, but
notin asatisfactory manner ; and iRis probable that the
.Randolphs never thought of maling any demand, because they were convinced that they had no right to do
so, and that they must sustain the loss themselves, as they
had neglected to order Farrel and Jones to make the insurance. It was a loss justi imputable to their. own
neglect or imprudence ; or if not, then they intended
to stand'their own insurers..
Farrel and *Jones expressed regret whenever they received no orders to insure ; and this flowed from the nature and situation of their accounts and dealings : for as
the -Randolphs were. indebted to the firm, in a large
amount, it became the interest of Fariel and Jones, that
the tobacco should be insured, as it was property intended
to be appropriated towards the payment of the debt due
to them, The loss rendered the Randolphs tjie less able
to pay, and increased the risk of Farrel and J6nes, by
diminishing their security. An insurance, therefore, of
the property of the debtor, must have been beneficial and
satisfactory to the creditor. But this insurance, it seems,
the house of Farrel and Jones never thought themselves
authorised to make, unless they received immediately
from the Randolphs explicit directions for the purpose.
The charge is stale. The claim comes too'late ; it is
brought forward after a sleep of near 30 years, during
which period the original parties and their agents have
disappeared and are no more. An acquiescence for such
a length of time, and under such circumstances, is too
stubborn and inveterate to .be surmounted. The claim
was put into oblivion ; and there it ought to have remained. A court of equity should not interpose in a
case of this kind; and, therefore, the decr6e pronounced
by the circuit court ought to be affirmed.
CusiiiNG,

J. concurred.

Judgment affirmed.*

Ch. J. did not sit in the cause, having decided
it in the court below.
SU
V9l. III.
MAUSHALL,

