FEBRUARY, 1806.
Kiv os

SANDS v. KNOX.

ERROR to the court for the trial-of impeachments,
'and the correction of errors, in the state of N ew-York.

The non-intcrctUS act
of Jtne 13th,
1798; did not

Thomas Knox, administrator, with the will annexed, impose any
of Raapzat Heyeger, a subject ofthe king of Denmark, disabiltyupoix
of tho
brought an action of trespass vi et armis, in the su- VesSel
United States,
preme court of judicature, of the state of New-York, sold &mafde,
against Joshria Sands, collector of the customs for the to foreigners
port of New-York, for seizing and detaining a schooner residing out
of the United
called the Jennett, with her cargo. "The defendant, 'tates
duing
Sands, pleaded in justification, that he was collector, &c. the existence
and that after the Ist day of July, 1798, viz. on the 16th ofthat act.
of November, 1798, tle said schooner, then being called 7he 7uno, was owned'by a person resident within
the United States, ,at Middletown, in Connecticut, and
cleared for a foreign voyage, viz. from Middletown to
the iHland of St. Croix, a bond being given to the use of
the United States, as directed by the statute, with condition that the vessel should not, during her intended
voyage, or before her return within the United States,
proceed, or be carried, directlvor indirectly, to any port
or place within the territorv of the French republic, or
the dependencies thereof, or any place in the WestIndies, or elsewhere, under the acknowledged governmient of France, unless by stress of weather, or want of
provisions, or by actual force or violence, to be fully
proved and manifested before the acquittance of such
bond. and that such vessel was not, and should not be
employed during her said intended voyage, or before htr
return as aforesaid, in any traffic or commerce, with; or
for any person resident with. the territory of that republic, or in any of the dependencies thereof. That afterwards, on the 8th of December, 1798, she did proceed, and was voluntarily carried from Middletown to
the island of St. Croix, in the West-Indies, and from
thence, before her return-within the United States, to
Portde Paix, in the island of St. Domingo, being then a
place under the acknowledged government of France,
without being obliged to do so by stress of weather, or

SUPREME COURT U. S.
SANDS

K"

want of provisions, or actual force and violence, whereby,
and according to the form of the statute, the said
schooner and her cargo became forfeited, the one 'half to
the use of the United States, and the other half to the
informer ; by reason whereof, the defendant, being collector, &c. on the 1st of July, 1799, arrested, entered,
and took possession of the said vessel and cargo, for the
use of the United. States, and detained them as mentioned in the declaration, and as-it was lawful for hinA
to do.
The plaintiff, in hig replication, admitted that the defendant was collector, &-. J at at the time she sailed
from Middletown for St. Croix, she was owned by a person then resident in the United States ; and that a b6nd
was given as stated in the plea; but alleged, that she
sailed directly from Middletown to St. Croix, where-she
arrived on the 1st of February, 1799, the said island of
St. Croix, then and yet being under the government
of the king of Denmark. That one Yosiah Savage,
then and there being the owner and possessor of the
said vessel, sold hcr, for a valuable consideration, at
St. Croix, to the said Raapzat Heyleger, who was then,
and until his death continued to be, a subject of the king
of Denmark, ahd resident at St. Croix, who, on the 1st
of March following, sent the said vessel, on his own account, and for his own benefit, on a voyage from Port
de Paix to St. Croix, Without that, that she was at any
other time carried, &e.
To this replication" there was a general demurrer and
joinder, and judgment for .the plaintiff, which, upon a
writ of error to the court Jor the trialof impeachments
and correctionof errors, in the state of New-Torh, was,
to this court, affirmed.
The defendant now brought his writ of error, to this
court under the 25th section of the judiciary act of the
United Statesvol. 1, p. 63.
The only question which could be made in this, court,
was upon the construction of the act of congress, of Yune
13th, 1798, vol. 4, p. 129, commonly called the non-intercourse act ; the 1st ser tion of which is in these words:
"That no ship or vessel, owned, hired, or employed,

FEBRUARY, 1806.

Sol

wholly or in part, by any person resident w-ithin the
United States, and which shall depart therefrom after the
1st day-of July nexf, shall be allowed to proceed directly,
or from any intermediate port or place, to any port or
place within the territory of the French republic, or the
dependencies thereof, or to an%place in the WVest-Indies,
or elsewhere, under the acknowledged government of
France, or shall be employed in any traffic or commerce
with or for any person, resident within the jurisdiction,
or under the authority of the French republic. *And if
any ship or vessel, in any voyage thereafter commencing, and before her return within the United States, shall
be voluntarily carried, or suffered to proceed to any
French port or place, as aforesaid, or shall be employed
as aforesaid, contrary to the intent hereof, every such
ship or vessel,. together with her cargo, shall be forfeited,
and shall accrue, the one half to the use of the United
States, and the other half to the use of any person or persons, citizens of the UnitedStates, who will inform and
prosecute for the same ; and ihall be liable to be seized,
prosecuted,and condemned, in iny circuit or district court
of the United States,- which shall be holden within and
for the district where the seizure shall be made."
The condition of the bond, stated in the plea, corresponded.exactly with that required by the 2d sectipo of
the act.,
The 70th section of the act'of 2d of March, 1799, vol.
4, P. 390; makes it the duty of the several officers of the
customs, to seize any vessel liable to seizure, under that
or any other act of congress respecting the revenue.
C. Lee, for the plaintiff in error.
The question is, whether the at of congress does not
impose a disability upon the vessel itself?
'This vessel was clearly within the literal prohibition of
the act.. -She Was ',owned wholly by a person resident .
within the United States." - She did "depart therefrogi
after the 1st day of July (then) next." She did " proceed
from an intermediate port or 'place, to a place in the
West-Indies, under the acknowledged 'governmnent of
France." She was also a vessel which, "in a voyage

sA .,,l

50?1
Vo.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

*thereafter commencing, and before her return within
the United States,'" was " voluntarily carried, or sufftred
to proceed, to a French port." She had, theretbre,
done and suffered eveily act, which, according to the k tter of the law, rendered her liable to forfeiture, seizure,
and condemnation.
It is true, that the decision of this court, in the case of
the Charming Betsey, ante, vol. 2, p. 1$, seems at first
view to be against us. But the presept question was not
-made, and could notarise in that case, because that vessel had not been to a French port, nor had she returned
from a French port tothe United States. If such a trade
as the present case presents, were to be permitted, the
whole object of the non-intercourse'act'would be frustrated. A, vessel of the United States may, according
to the judgment in the case of the Charming Betsey, he
sold and transferred to a Dane, and he may trade with hei
as he pleases ; but we say it is with this proviso, that he
does not send her from a French port to the United
States. He takes the vessel with that restriction. If
'hetrades to the United States, he is bound to know and
-respecttheirlaws. The intention of the law was not only
to prevent American citizens, but American vessels, from
carrying on an intercourse with French ports.
The case of the Charming Betsey was under the art of
February, 1800 ;. but the present case arises under tbtt of
1798, which is very differtnt in many respects. The
opinion in that case, so far as it was not upon. poifits necessarily before the court, is open to examinatipn.
Neither the words of the law, nor the form of the bond,
make any exception of the case of the sale and transfer of
the vessel before her return. If therefore a sale is made
it must be subject to the terms of the law ; and although
the vessel may not be liable to seizure upon the high seas,
yet upon her return to the United States, it became the
duty of the custbm-house officer to seize her.. The law
ought to be so construed as to carry into effect the object
intended. That object was, to cut off all intercourse
Nuith France, and by that means compel her to do justice to the United States. But if this provision of the
law is to be so easily eluded, France will be in a better

FEBRUARY,

1806.

5o3

situation than before,. for she will receive her usual supb the loss of the carrying
plies and we shall be weakened by
trade. ,

SANDS
V.

K OX.

Bayard, contra, was stopped by the court.
MARSHALL, Ch.

J.

If the question is not involved, whether probable cause
will justify- the seizure and detention ; if there are no
facts in the pleadings which show a ground to suspect
that there was no bonafide sale and transfer of the vessel,
the court does not wish to hear any argument on the part
of the defendant in error.,
It considers the point as settled by the opinion given
in the case of the Charniing Betsey, with which opinion
the court is-well satisfied.
The law did not intend to affect the sale of vessels of
the United States, or to impose any disability on the vessel, after a bonafde salu and transfer to a foreigner.
Judgment affirmed.

RANDOLPH v. WARE.
RA'%DOL U
t.

THIS was an appeal from a decree of the circuit A promise
court, for the district of. Virginia, which dismissed the by a merchant's factor
complainant's bill in equity.
that he would

write to his

Ware, the executor (f Jones, surviving partner of the principal
to
t
insurance
house of Farrel and Jones, British merchants, had in
ne,doesnot
the same court, at June term, 18q, obtained a decree bind
the prin.
aglinst William Randolph, administrator de bonis non, cipal to inwith the will annexed, of Peyton Randolph, for a large sure.

