SUPREME COURT U. S.
HODGSON
, V.
BUTTS.

11ODGSON v. BUTTS.

A hnzwgageof
chattels in
Vir in*a, is

ERROR to the circuit court for the district of Columbia, sitting at Alexandria, in'an action for mone"

ditors and
subsequent

Was master of the schooner Mississippi, the amount of
freight .received by him subsequent to the mortgage of

voic as to re had and received, to recover from the defendant, who
purchasers,

unless itbe
acknowledgod, or proved
bythe oaths of
three witnes-

the said.schooner, b
s

R.'& J. J12milton, (the foriner

y

owners) to the plaintiff.
On the trial of the general issue, th'e plaintiff took

ses, and re- two bills of exception, and the verdict was for the dc.

corded in the fendant.
same manner
Fs conveyan.
The
ies
of land are
kequired to be facts

ackaowledgd or proved,
Od recorded.

first bill of exceptions stated the following

That the plaintiff, to support his claim, prbduced a
deed from R. & J. Hamilton, by which they birgained
and sold to the plaintiff the schooner Mississippi, then
in the port of Alexandria, and the cargo of the ship
Hannah, then at sea, as security to 'indemnify ad save
harmless the plaintiff, as indorsor of their notes, to the
amount of 10,006'dollars. If they should indemnify
him Within
days after the arrival.of the cargo
of the ship Hannah, if it should arrive before the return
of the schooner Mississippi from her then intended
voyage to New-Orleans ; or, if the cargo of the Han.
nah should not arrive before the return of the schooner,
then within
. days after' her return, then the
deed should be void: but, if they should fdil to indemnify the plaintiff within the periods mentioned, then he
was to 'sell the cargo of the Hannah, find the schooner
and cargo. The deed also contaifed the 'following
covenant: " And we do moreover bind burselves, our
executors.and 'dministrators, and also the freight and
inward cargo of the said schooner Mississipp, to ex-

onerate the said William Hodgson from," &c. "It beingthe true intent and meaning ofthese presents, to bind.
-ourselves, our schoondr called the Mississippi, her tac-

FEBRUARY, 1805.

141

kle, apparel and furniture, herfreight and inward cargo,
and the cargo of.the ship Hannah, to exonerate," &c.
The execution of the deed was in the following
form:
" In winess whereof, the said Robert and, James
Hamilton have hereunto set their hands and affixed
their ,seals, this fourth day of May, 1800.
ROBT. & JAs. HAMILTON, (seal.)

Signed; sealed and delivered,
in the presence of

S

CH. Sltms,
JAxs D. LowRy."

"At a court of Hustings, held for the town of Alex.
andria, the sixth of October, 1800, this bill of sale,
-from Robert ana James Hamilton to*illiam Hodgson,
was proved to be the act and deed of the said Robert Hamilton for self and for James Hamilton, by the oaths of
Charles Simms and James D. Lowry, witnesses there.
to, and ordered to be recorded.
G. DENEALE, Clerk."

The plaintiff also produced, in evidence, the register
of the schooner, with an indorsement thereon, in these
*ords, " At the request of the within named ]Robert
an& James Hamilton and William Hodgson, merchants,
of the town of Alexandria, I hereby certify, that the
within mentioned vessel is mortgaged by the said Rob.
art and James Hamilton to the said William Hodgson,
to secure the payment of the sum of ten thousand dol.
lars, as witness my hand, this thirteenth day of May,
one thdusand'eight hundred.
C HAS. PAGE, Dy. Collr.n

It was proved, that the said register, with the indorsement there6n, as aforesaid, was delivered to the defend
ant previous to the sailing of the said schooner. That

Horsou
V.
BUTTS.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
HaODGsov

V.
UTTS.

she sailed from Alexandria to New-Orleans about the
14th of May, 1800, from New-Orleans to Jamaica, and
Alexandria about the 7t
she arrivd
from
frmJamaica searvdatAlxnrabothe2h

of November, 1800; at which time, and not before, she
was put into the actual possession of the plaintiff, under
a new and absolute bill of sale, executed by Robert and
James Hamilton to the plaintiff, at that time. That tho
defendant received the freight of the cargo, carried
from New-Orleans, at Jamaica. No evidence was adduced to show that the plaintiff had ever given notice
to the defendant that he should look to him for thd
freight (other than the indorsement on the register.)
On the part of the defendant, evidence was adduced,
to prove that R. and J. Hamilton, on the 12th May,
1800, ivere indebted to a certain John Haynes, in the
sum of 384 dollars, for wages as a seaman, previously
earned; 184 dollars of which were earned on board
the said schooner, and 200 on board another of their
vessels. That being so indebted, R. Hamilton, on the
13th of May, 1800,. gave the said Haynes an order on
hisrbrother James, then in New-Orleans, stating a balance of '384 dollars, to be due to him, with some interest, and requesting his brother to pay it. That on
the same day, they were indebted to the defendant, in
the sum of 800 dollars, for wages due him, as master
of, and disbursements on account of the- schooner, on
a previous voyage, which sum R. Hamilton requested
his brother James, at New-Orleans, to pay, by letter
of that date. That the defendant received his sailing.
orders aud instructions from R. Hamilton, in the name
ot R. and J. Hamilton' on the 14th-of May, 1800, be.
fore he sailed from Alexandria. That thd vessel was
conducted entirely under the directions of R. and J,
Hamilton, from the date of the mortgage, on the 4th
of May, 1800, until the 27th of November, 1800, when
she was delivered to the'plaintiff.
.t hat on the voyage from Alexandria to New-Orleans, the 'lefendant met James Hamilton, in the rivei
Mississippi, and showed him the orders in favour of
the defendant and of John Haynes, and requested payment. That James Hamilton replied, that he had no
money to satisfy the said orders ; that the defendant

PEBRUARY, 1805.
must wait until the vessel earnedenough to pay them,
and desired the defendant to pay them out of the first
money the vessel should earn, by freight or otherwise.
That the vessel proceeded to New-Orleans, and from
thence with a cargo to Jamaica, where-the freight was
received, and out of the same the defendant ?aid Haynes
the 384 dollars, and applied 800 dollars to the discharge
of his own claim. That the vessel then sailed from
Jamaica, and arrived at Alexandria on the 27th of
November, 1800. That after her arrival, and after
possession delivered to the plaintiff, the latter paid the
expenses and disbursements of the vo3 age, which became-due on her arrival, by the orders of the defendant. The plaintiff also insured the vessel for the said
voyage, and paid the premium thereon, after her departure for New-brleans. It was also.proved, thaton
the defendant's return to Alexandria with the vessel,
and before the plaintiff took possessi6n of her, and received his absolute bill of sale, as aforesaid, the defendant rendered, to, and settled with R. and J. Hamilton, an account current of the expenses and profits on
the said voyage, in which they gave credit for the order
in favour of himself, and that in favour of Haynes.
Upon this statement of the evidence, the plaintiff
prayed the court to instruct the jury, that he was entitled to recover of the defendant, the sum of 1184
dollars, thus admitted to have been received for freight,
and applied to the discharge of the two orders; which
the court iefused ta do, and directed the jury to find a
verdict for the Adefendant, if they found the facts to be
as stated.
The 2d bill of exceptions stated, that the plaintiff
prayed the court to instruct the jury, that if they
should be of opinion, from the evidence aforesaid, that
the defendant received information of the mortgage
from Robert Hamilton, before the schooner sailed upon
the said voyage, the plaintiff was entitled to recover
the paid 1184 dollars, which the court also refused to
do, and directed the jury, as before, that their verdict ought to be for the defendant.
This case was first argued at February term, 1804.

Houcsox
V.
BUTT&-

surflEME -COuR-t u. s.
Fdbruary 27, 180*.

MoDGSoMo
I V.

BUTTS:

BT

4.r7. Lee, for plaintif in error.
The law of mortgages is the same both as to land
and personal property.
The case is to be ,considered, first, upon common
law p,inciples; and 'second; upon the statute law of
Virginia.
First point. That the mortgagee is the legal proprietor of themortgaged subject; and as such, he is
entitled t&riceive the rents and profits after notice of
the mortgage,. unless the contrary be stipulated.
T~e -mortgagee of lnds leased becomes entitled to
the rent from the time of executing the conveyance ;
for the rents and profits, as well as the land,, are liable
for the debt.
As soon as the conveyance is executed, the estate is,
in law, vested in the mortgagee, and his power to take
actual possession exists from that moment. For these
principles, see Powell on'1ortiages,70, 80; 81.
The mortgagee is .the absolute proprietor and the
true owner, I Vez. 361. Ryall v. Rowlks.
If lands be mortgaged to one, the interest in them is
in the mortgagee before forfeiture; for he has purchas.
ed the lands upon a valuable consideration, as the law
will intend ; and though the mortgagor may redeem by
means of an agreement between the parties, if he does
not, the estate, in law, is absolute, without any other
act to be done, to pass the estate - although the mort..
gagor has in him the equity of redemption, 15 Viner,

Abridg.. 44.
A mortgage is defined to be the appropriation of a
specific thing .to certain purposes. It does not, in the
case of a mortgage, require the delivery of the article,
inorder to transfer the right and title to it.

-

145
FEBRUARY, 1805. A mortgagee of real property may bring an eject-

-ment to get possession against any person ifd possesslon ; and may also bring an action for the mesne profits ; so he may bring trover for personal property, and
in the estimation of -his damages, a charge for the intermediate produce or profits of the article converted
would not be rejected, but would be taken into the account. . So he may bring detimie, without any proof of
.possession in the mortgagee.
2d. Possession, upon common law principles, is.
not necessary in order to give title in the transference of property. It is true, that possession in the
vendor, after the transfer, is prima facie evidence ot
,fraud, and this is the only effect of such possession;
but as to the proof of fraud, it is not conclusive. It
may be rebutted by testimony showin& the transaction
bonafide.
The orily use in delivering pooession, is to prevent
strangers being deceived by a false credit, whigji the
possession in the vendor is calculated to produce. This
reason-cannot be applicable in this case to Butts. 1. Because Butts knew of the-mortgage. 2. Because the
debt due to him from the Hamiltons was an antecedent
debt.
If the Hamiltons had been declared bankrupts, their
assignees could not have claimed the vessel or th
freight ; because both were pledged as a security to
Hodgson. Slee the bankrupt law of the United States.
Upon common law principles, the mortgagee 'must
be considered a the legal_ proprietor of the vessel.
sd. But the act of the legislature of Virginia,
places the question beyond a doubt, and proves that
possession is not necessary to constitute the ownership.

See Virginia laws, 157, revisedcode of 1802.
ington, 177.

1 Mash-

The legal owner of the vessel is entitled to receivt
the freight, Xarshall on Insurance, 93.
TOL.HI.

IT

Ho02so.00
BUTTS.,

.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
j o DsoIfS.
,x.pv

The mortgagce of a vessel in a late case has been
considered as the owner, and as such, liable for'repairs done to her before he received actual possession.
7 Term Rep. 306. In this case the decision in Chinnery
7. Blackburne, 1 H. Blach. Rep. 11 V, is not considered
as correct.
The two cases of Yarkson v. Vernon, I H. Black. 114,,
and Chinnery v. Blackburne, which will be relied on
by the defendant, will, upon examination, be found not
to meet the question which arises in this case.
In the case of Yaclson v. Vernon, the question was,
whether the mortgagee was liable for the repairs to the
ship ; it was 4recided he was not, because, the mortgagor himself ordered the repairs; as the person who
makes repairs on a ship, has a claim on the person
ordering them,- it was supposed the credit was given
to him, and upon this ground it was held the mortgagee was not liable.
In the case of Chinnery v. Blachburne, Merryfield,
acted as the owner; he navigated the vessel, and made
all contracts about her, from London to Antigua. 'He
was on board of her on the voyage, and at Antigua
gave the command of the vessel to another'captain ;
he also insured the vessel; and at Antigua, acted
personally in command of the ship. This is not like
the case at bar; for in this, Hamilton did not furnish
the vessel, or man her after the mortgage, nor did
he insure her; but Hodgson did the last act: But
both cases are doubted in the case 7 Tbrm, 306, and
by Abbott, 16, who says, they do not furnish a case for
the decision of the question,, who is entitled to tho
freight, which a case of a contriact made by the master
in that character, will; which is our case.
There is a distinction in a court of equity and a
court of law, where the mortgagor acts as the master
of the vessel. ]n the court of equity, he is considered
as owner; but not so in a court of law. Afarsh. 452.
453. Hamilton never, acted as master.

F3EBRUARY, 1805.

147

4th. The contract in words, binds and includes the
freight. To which it is objected, that future freight
is too remote an interest, to be transferred; freight,
or a hope, or expectation, is such an interest as may
be insured , and, if insurable, it may be-granted.

Goods, as well as their expected produce, may be
granted, Prec. Chancery, 285. It is not competent
for Butts, who claims under Hamilton, to object that
the freight it not included or passed by the deed.
Cowp. 600.
5th. The objection, that Robert Hamilton exercised
authority over the vessel, by giving instructions, is
.not of any weight, in the mouth of Butts; because
Butts had a full knowledge of the lleAi of Hodgson;
and also, because it does not appear that Hodgson
authorised this interference.
The directions of James Hamilton, that Butts was
to wait until the vessel earned enough to pay him, is
also without weight; because James Hamilton was
ignorant of the arrangement which his partner had
made; and of which Butts- might have informed him;
but not having done so, he is the more culpable.
6th. Hamilton had no right to appropriate the
freight to any other person, than that specified in his
deed of mortgage. If he had not, Butts, his servant,
had not.
Butts must be considered, either as the scrvant
of Hamilton, or of Hodgson; if the servant of the
former, and undertakes tq act as such, he had no
right to apply the money in the mninner he did. If he
undertook the command as Hodgson's servant, he had
no right to apply the freight to the payment of a
debt due from Hamilton.
7th. Butts having accepted of the command of the
vessel, with a full knowledge of the lien upon her,
and her future freight, he tacitly consented to apply
the treight according to the agreement between Hamilton and Hodgson; if he intended otherwise at the

floDcson

V.

BUTTS.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
UoDGsox

V:.

time, he has been guilty of a fraud, whigh ought not

to avail him in a court of law.

8th. The captain had no lien for his 800 dollars, due
for his own wages on ihe vessel. The mate had no lien
on this vessel, for 200 dollars, they being earned on
board of a different vessel, and in a different voyage.
The balance of the mate's wages, was only 184 dollars.
The mate, by accepting an order on James Hamilton,
for 384 dollars, the whole of the wages due him, agreed
to accept payment in a different way from the usual
one; which destroys the .lien on th. vessel, for the
184dollars. -Salk. 131.
Besides, for this 184 dollars, Butts, as the qaptain.of
the vessel when it was earned, was liable ; and the mo,inent he paid that. gum, ,the mate's lien was gone.
The captain has no lien on the vessel for the wages
he pays the seamen, but has on 'the freight, for the
wages of the voyage in which the freight was earned.
The mate, by assigning the bill on James Hamilton,
could not assign any lien he-had on the vessel,
9th. As to the justice.of the case. Hodgson has paid
the seameri's wages for.the voyage which earned the
freight'; and Butts is to receive the benefit,
JYones, contra. .First,as to the validity of the deed, and
Secnd, as to its effect, if valid.
1st. the vessel was in port at the time of. the deed,
and, therefore, (possession not having been delivered) it
is void as to creditors. The possession is dispensed with
only when the vessel is at,sea. 1 C'ooke, B. L. 439, Stevens v. Cole. Id. 357, "Ballv. Gurney. 1 Wilson, 260,
.Ryall v. Rolle, and tle case of Ruyscl v. hbmilton, in
this court, ante, vol. 1,p. 309.
As to the act of assembly, if the ded would have been
bad without recording, there is nothing in the act to make.
it gqod. From affirmativewords a hegative may sometimes be implied, but not e converso. The words of the
act are, " all deeds of trust and mortgages ihatsoev.er

FEBRUARY, 1805.

149

shall be void as to all creditors and subsequent purchasers,
unless they shall be acknowledged or proved, and recorded according to the directions of this aft." That is to
say, a deed, although good in ever, other respect, yet,
if not acknowledged or proved, and recorded, shall be
void. It cannot-possibly be construed to make good a
deed which would have been before fraudulent.
2d. The deed is also void for want of containing the
register accordihg'to the directions of the act of congress,
vol. op. 147, §14. This act is mandatory, and if the
construction of the act of assembly contended for is correct, the register is necessary ; for the affirmative words
of the act of congress imply a negative as strongly as the
act of assembly implies an affirmative.
3d. The plaintiff waived this deed, by .aking possession under a new and absolute deed of the same property,
before the mortgage was forfeited, and before he had
exercised any right of ownership. This new deed itiplies
a new 'consideration, and that a new bargain was made,
by which the old contract was waived.
4th. The consideration of the deed was, indemnity.
A mere possibility of suffering is not a sufficient consideration against third persons. It is only good between the
parties.
Secondpoint. As to the effect of the deed, if valid.
The plaintiff, by the terms of the deed itself, could not
meddle with the schooner, until
days after her return
from her then intended voyage to New-Orleans, and a
failure on the part of th6 mortgagors to indemnify him;
and his only authority then would be to sell the vessel and
cargo, if not previously sold by the mortgagors.
If; then, the defendant did know of the mortgage, he
must be presumed to know the whole terms; and that
the plaintiff could not interfere till long after his return.
-Iealso knew, that before a forfeiture of the mortgage,
and while the mortgagor holds the possession, :the latter
is to -be considered the owner I Hf. B.'l 14, 7achson v.
Vernon, and 1 H. B. 11-7, Clinnery v. Blach6urne.
Even in the case of lands, a mortgagor has been held to

Honraou
,*

150

iMoDGsoN;
V.
BUTTS.
BUT:S

SUPREME COURT U. S.

be a freeholder, and entitled to vote at elections. And the
mortgagee of a leasehold estate, cannot be sued by the
lessor as assignee of the lessee, until the mortgagee is in
possession, although the mortgage be forfeited, and he
has a right of possession. Doug. 455, Eaton v. Yacyues.
Doug. 22, Keech v. H2all.
The mortgagors had a right to receive the freight, and
if so, they had a right to appropriate it. The freight is
not like rent, Which is said to grow out of the land. It
depends upon a mere personal contract. If they had received the freight, their receipt would have been good
against the plaintiff.
As to the payment of the expenses of the voyage by
the plaintiff, it was voluntary. He had his reasons. He
made a new contract, and paid the money after 4e had
possession under his absolute purchase of the vessuc.
The extrajudicial doubts of Lord Kenyon and Abbott,
cannot controul the strong and decisive case's of Yackson
v. Vernon, and Chinnery v. Blackburne.
A to the covenant respecting the freight, it is merely
a personal contract, and the plaintiff trusted to the personal security of the mortgagors. Even if they had sold
the inward cargo, the plaintiff could not recover against
the vendees. -But the freight was not even a chose in action. It was only a possibility. It was not in being, and,
therefore, not capable of a legal assignment.
Swann, in reply. The vessel w~s of less value when
she returned than when she was mortgagcd, by at least
the difference of the freight. Hodgson paid the expenses
of the voyage. It is equitable, therefore, that he should
ieceive the freight. The defendant had no lien on the
vessel or freight.
Two quicstions seem to arise ifi this cause.
1. What relation does the mortgagor stand in to the,
mortgagee ?
2. What relation does the defendant stand in to both?

FEBRUARY, 180-.

151

1. By the English law, possession must accompany the
deed, except as to vessels at sea. But here possession is
not necessary, if the deed be proved anc recorded in a
certain manner. It is then as valid, to all intents and purposes, as if possession had been delivered with the deed.
The court said, he need not argue that point. It had
been settled.*
Swann. What then are the rights which it conveys?
As to mortgages of lands, the law is settled ; but not so
in the case of a mortgage of a ship. In England it is settled, that a mortgagee of a ship ii possession, is entitled
to all the rights of property. But if a vessel be mortgaged while at sea, some doubts have arisen. But here, by
the statute, the deed has the same effect as if possession
had been given. The mortgagee, therefore, has all the
right of property ; and if in the thing itsel4 he has it also
in its profits.
But this is not a mere mortgage. It is also an assignment of the freightitself. It is said to be the general understanding, that the mbrtgagor shall enjoy the profits
until forfeiture, or possession given to the mortgagee.
But if the mortgagor covenants expressly, that the mortgagee should receive the profits, this destroys the tacit
presumption that the mortgagor should receive them.
At best, a mortgagor is only "like a tenant at will," and
the mortgagee may put an end to .his right of taking the
profits whienever he.pleases. He has the legal title to the
rent. Doug. 282. M1oss v. Gallimore. But it is said,
that the freight was not in esse, and, therefore, could not
be the'subject of an assignment. But if the covenant
does not operate as an assignment of the freight, it is
sufficient to destroy the tacit understanding, that the
mortgagors were to receive and might dispose of it as
they pleased.
2. In what relation does the defendant stand to the
other parties ?
Here was no fraud on him. He had notice of the
mortgage, and the appropriation of the freight to secure
* Probably aliudin.gto the case of Claibornev. M11, 1 Wash. 177.

Honcson

SUPREME COURT U. S.
HODGsou
V.
BUTTS.

the plaintiff, before the vessel sailed. He took an order
for his money on James Hamilton ; which shows, thn't
when he sailed, he did not depend upon the profits of this
voyage, as to his claim of Boo dollars. If he had any
lien on the freight, it was only for his. wages arising during the same voyage. - If there was any fraud, it was on
his side. He never disclosed his claim to the plaintiff before he sailed, nor after his return, until the plaintiff had
-paid the expenses of the voyage. The record of the
mortgage was notice to him, even if we hd not proved
actual knowledge on his part. The mortgagors and the
defendant, as their agent, were trustees for the plaintiff.
If a mortgagee of lands chooses to lay by, and not
demand the rents, and the tenants pay them to the mortgagor, 'they -shall be protected. But why ? Because
they had not notice. But if they pay the rent to the
mortgagor after notice from the mortgagee, they pay ill
their own wrong. This is- the case of the defendant.
He knew that the mortgagors had no right to appropriate
the freight.

February28, 1804.
MARSHALL, Ch. J. mentioned to the counsel, that
the court had doubts whether the mortgage was not void,
for want of three witnesses, under the act of assembly,
Revise0ode, p. 165, for regulating conveyances. They,
therefore, continued the cause, to ascertain whether any,
and what decisions, had been made in Virginia upon that
point.
-

rebruary 25, 1805.

?. , . Lee, for plaintiff in error. The question now
is, is it necessary that the mortgage should be proved by
three witnesses?
By the second member of the second section of the
statute to prevent frauds and perjuries, it is declared,
" if a conveyance be of goods and chattels, and be not,
on consideration, deemed valuable in law, itshall be taken
to'be fraudulent within that act, unless the same be by
will duly proved and recdrded, or by deed in writing
acknowledged or proved ; if the same deed 'include lands

1REHRUARY, 1S05.

153

als-oin such manner as c6nveyances forian&s are direct-

ed to be proved and recorded, or if the conveyahcer be of
"goodsand chattels only, then acknowledged or proved by
-two witnesses in the general court, or the court of the
countj. -in which one of the parties live, within eight
months, or unless possession shall really and bona./fde
remain with the donee," &c.
By this law, if the conveyance is of goods and chattels,
for a consideration" not deemed valuable in law, and i4
proved by two witnesses, or possession is with the done;
it gives a tide.
From this part of the act, the natural and only, inference is, that if a conveyance is for a consideratioii deemed valuable in law, that it must be valid, and transfer property as '.abolutely as a conveyance for a consideration
not deemed-valuable, proved by two witnesses. ,
The latter part of this section includes a mortgage,
or
any other conyeyance with a condition or limitaion.
The first branch of the second section declares all cQnveyances not tnade with a view to defraud reditors or
purchasers, is go6d, and does hot requireits being recorded.-

The third section of -this act refers to the first branch
of the second section, both being taken from the statute
-of Elizabeth. -

-

The whole of the fourth section. of the act regulating
-conveyances, relates to four different objects. 1st. An
estate of freehold in lands. 2d. An estate 'f inheritance
in lands. -3d. An estate -for a term of years in lqnds.
4th. Deeds of settleiqent updn marriage, wherein ands,
slaves,.money, or other persoial thing, shall be settled or
covenanted to be left, or paid at the death of the party, or
otherwise, and all deeds of tiust or mortgages whatib ever,
that is, the-consideration of which is marriage, or which
relate to lands. These-general words are to be construed
as referring to the previous subject matter 9fthis section,
and of the previdus sections.
VoL -Il.

X

Hoocaou

r.

B

SUPREME COURT U. S.

154
'HOOGSO.,

V.

B

If the act againsi fratids and perjuries include not this
deed, then we are to incuire w~hat was necessary at common law to pass a title to property.

Personal property at the common law might be acquired, the books say, in twelve different ways. Among
them, one is by grant or contract.- A contract is an
agreement, 'upon a sufficient consideration, to do, or not
to do a particular thing.
No particular form is prescribed as to making the contract, whether it must be, in- writing or otherwise. it is
sufficient if the contract is proved.
And all persons who have notice of the contract arc
bound by it. ' If A sell to B verbally, in the presence of

C, a horse, and C afterwards buy the'same horse of A$
will it be said C's title is good ?
No; because the contract with B transfers the property.

2 Black. 447, 448.

The contract for the freight is gooq; the law does not
rdquire a contract to pay money. out of a particular fund,
to be recorded.
The

vhole tenor of the act for regulating conve yances,

shows .that it-relates to real estate only, except in the single case of marriage settlements, whichare specially provided for.
But there is another error apparelt in the record.
The plaintiff paid to the defendant the'seametn's wages,
upon the faith of receiving the freight. If he was not entitled to receive it, he has paid those wages by mistake,
and may recover them back in this action against the defendant, to whose orders they were paid.
Swann, on the sanie side. The fourth section, of thd
at for .regulating conveyances says, tht all deeds of
trust and mortgages zbhatsoeer, shall he void,' uihless
they shall be recorded according to the directions of that
act; that is, in the county where the,, land conveyed
lieth." Where, then, is a deed of mere personal prbperty

F BAUARY, .aos.-

iis

roi•e-recprd ? This shows; thatthe legislature mieant
9Qly deedIs'of-iirst and mortgages of land.,
C. Lee, on the same side,, contended, that there was
no statute respecting conveyances of personal piroperty

on valuable consideration. The statute of frauds
speaks only of conveyances- made on considcration, not
deemed valuablein law. The word good consideration
in th.e 3d section, means paiuable consideration, other.
wise it'wonld be repugnant.
Jones,contra. It is contended, now, that if the ortgage is void, and the plaintiff had no right to receive
the freigh.t, he has paid the expenses of the voyage by
mistake, and can recover upon that ground. Bu thefe
is. no evidence that the expectAtion of the freight was
his motive for paying those expenses; On the contrary, he did not pay-them until after he had taken possession of the vessel; under a new contract, as an absolute
purchaser. The record does not state how much he
disbursed," and, therefore, wecannot say how much he
is entitled to recover back, even if he is entitled to recover any thing, But the defendant never received the
money 6rom die plaintiff for those disbursements. It
is true he gave orders to the lilaintiff to pay, but those
orders were not for his own use, and he never actually
received the money.
.March2, 1805.
MARSHALL, Ch.
court.

J. delivered the opinion of the

This suit was instituted to recover the freight of a
vessel of which the plaintiff wasa mortgagee. Upon
insecting the deed, which is the foundation of the action , it appears to have been admitted to record, on the
oath bf only two subscribing witnesses. This suggested

_- preliminary question, whether a deed of mortgage,
so recorded, was not absolutely void as to crealtors afd
subsequent purchasefs'?,. This question depends oni the
construction of two acts of the legislature of Virginia.
The first is ent~ted, " An act for regulatinig conveyantes,-" The 4th section of that act is in these words.;

Holosoii
V.
"BUTTS.

156

SUPREME "OU T U. S •

VoncaoN " All bargains, sales,"' &c. The first member df the
V.
sentence relates to. lands only, the second to marriage.
BUTTS.
- settlements, wherein either.'lands or personal estate
should be settled, and the third relates to deed
of
trust and mortgages. Terms descriptivp of personal
estate are omitted, but the word 0 whatsoever" would
certainly comprehetid a mortgage of a pdrsonal chattel,
as. well as of lands, if not restrained by other words
manifesting an intent to restrain them,
It is argued, that this intent is clearly manifested.
The whole act relates to real estate, except that part of
it which respects ma.riage settlements. Its title is "an
aict concerning conveyances," and all its 'provisions are
adapted to the conveyance of lands, except in the particular case of marriage settlements ;.and in that case, the
act provides expressly for recording a settlement of
chattels, ' This act; it is said, contdins no " directions'
for recording a deed of trust or mortgage for a personal
thing,'and,-consequently, st'ch deed cannot bp within it,
The first section of' the act respects conveyancbs of
lands only, and directs, that they shall be acknowledged
or proved by the oath of three witnesses in the general
court, or coqrt' of the district, county, city, or corpora,
tion in which the lands lie.
The 'second respects marriage settlements, and directs, that if lands be' conveyed or' covenanted to be
conveyed, they shall be proved and recorded in th
same .manner as had been prescribed in the first section ; but if only slaves, money, or other personal thing
be settled, the deed is to be proved and recorded before
the court of the district, county, orcorporation in which
the party dwells, or as afterwards directed.
The third section relates only to the proving and, recording of livery of seisin
Then follpws the fourth section, .'which .requires,
among other enumerated conveyances that "all deeds
of trust and mortgages whatsoever" shall be void as to
creditors and subsequient purchasers if not acknowledg.
'@d or proved, and recorded "acdording to the dire,

FEBRUARY, 18o5.
tions of the act." There being no "directions" which
are applied. to mortgages, unless lands be conveyed in
them, it has been argued, that puch mortgages only, as
convey lands, are comprehended within the act.
The act, it mu/st be' acknowledged, is very obscurely
penned if this particular respect, and there is so much
strength'in the argument for confining it to mortgages
of lands, that, if a mortgage of a personal chaftel could
be brought within the provisions of any other act, the
court would be disposed to adopt the constkuction contended for.
The plaintii insists, that such a mortgage is comprehended in the 2d section of the "act to prevent frauds
and perjuiies."
That act avoids fraudulent conveyances; and declares, that deeds of personal chattels, not upon a valudble consideration, where the possession remains with
the donor; or, a reservation of interest in the donor,
where possession passes to the donee, shall be fraudulent and v;oid, unless proved and recorded according to
the directions of the act. A mortgage made on a
valuable consideration, would be very clearly excluded
from the 2d section, although the act contained nothing
further on the subject. But to remove the possibility
of doubt, the 3d section declares, that the act shall not
extend to any conveyance made "upop good consideration and bonafide."
The meaning of the word "good," in the. statute of
frauds, is settled to be the same with "valuable."
It is, therefore, perfectly clear, that the -case is altogether omitted, or is provided for in the act concerning
conveyances. In a country where mortgages, of a particular .kind of personal property, are frequent, it can
scarcely be supposed that no provision would be made
for so important and interesting a subject. The inconvenience resulting from the total want of such a prov!
sion would certainly be great ; and the court, therefore,
ought not to suppose the case to be entirely omitted, if
tlere be any legislative act which may fairly be con-

Honoso*

V.

158
Ho-osol

v.

SUPREME CQURT U. S.

strued to comprehend it.. TheAct concerning conv ey-

ances, although not penned with that clearness which is
to be wished, does yet cpntairtterms which are sufficient
to embrace the case, and the best judicial opinions of
that state concur in this exposition of it.
Although the poiqt'was not directly decided in the
case of Bill and Clatborne, the court of appeals -appear
to have proteeded bn this cbnstrti tion,; and 'Judge
Tucker, in discussing this subject, avows the same
opinion.
Upon a consideration of the acts on this subject,
Butts being a creditor, it is the opiniqn of the court,
that the deed of mortgage, in the proceedings mentioned, was. void asto him.The counsel for the plaintiff contends, that, although
the mortgage-deed be void, yet Hodgson' is entitled to
recover, because he has paid money to the order of
Butts, under ihe mistaken opinion that he-was entitled
to the freight.
This allegation is not made out in point of fact.
Hodgson was in possession of the vessel as the absolute
purchaser before he paid for the disbursements hP 's
now ende aiouring to recover. It does not appear that
he paid, these disbursements in the confidence of recei.ving the. freight;or that he was not cdmpellabl, to
pay them as owner of the vessel. The freiiht had previously been applied by Butts, under the authority of
the Hamiltons, to the payment of a debt due to himself. - He had a,right, ,s a general creditor, to retain
that freight as against the original owners, or their as.
signee.
The court is of opinion, that thje judgment of the
cirvuit court is to bq affirmed with costs.

