FEBRUARY; 18o5,
TueUnXTrV
S rATrS
IV

UNITED ST-ATES v. BENJAMIN MORE.*

NToa r

ERROR to the circuit court of the district of Columbia, sitting at Washington, upon ajudgment in favour of
the traverser, on a demuryrr to an indictment for taking
unlawful tees -as a iustice of the peace for the county of

No appeal or
error
, tinof
lies
a oqninat ase, from
the judgment

"Vashington.

of the circuit

court, of the
district of Columbia.
States,
-The indictment was as follows, viz. "1United
he-b,
District of Columbia and County of Washington, to
jier the a
wit;
of congress,
Tfie jurors for the United States, for the district reoli of the
of Columbia, and county of Washington, aforesaid, up- ces
peace, in the
on their-oath present, tlat Benjamin More, late of the district of CocountyvofWashington, aforesaid, gentleman, on the loth lumbia,canafday of De'cember, in the year of our Lord one thousand feet those
eight hundred and two, then being one of the justices justic,,h
of.th6 peace of the United States, for the county of mission when
Washingtbu aforesaid, at the county of Washington the act %m
fuforesaid, by colour of his said office, unlawfully and,.ased.
unjustly did-demand, extort, receive and take, of an&
from one Richard Spalding, constable, acting for and
on behalf, of one Joseph Hickman, the sum of twelve
cents, and a half cent, lawful current money of the
United States, for and as his- fee, for executing hud
doing the duties of his said office, to wit, for rendering and giving judgment upon a warrant for a small
debt, in a case between the said Joseph Hickman,
jlaintiff, and one Joseph Dove, defendant, in contempt
of the law, to the great damage of them, the said Richard Spalding, and Joseph Hickman, and'against the
peace and government of the United States.
JonN T

"oT.M.soN,

United States Attorney, for

the district of Columbia."

Present, lfarrhal, Ch. J. Cuthing, Paterson, Chare, WaL'A.Z.

tan, and yohnson, justices.

160

T1SEVVXTED

SUpREME'COURT U: S.

. to this indictment, there was a general demurier

STATES
V.

and' joinder, and judgment in the court below for the

MoRLE

traverser, at July.Terri,

1803.*

In the court below, the ojinions df the judges were delivered
to the following dflet.
QRANCU, J. Thd questidn to .be decided upon this demurrer
is, Ivwhether the 4ct of congress,- for abolishing the fees ofjustices
of. the peace, in the district of Columbia, can afltct those justices
who "were in ommissiqn before, and at the time when that act
pissed, and who accepted their commissiobs, while those fees were
legally annexed to the pffice.

The points made in the argument of this cAuse, are important,
and some of them, not altogether clear of doubt.
It. has been contended, that congress, in legislating for the district of Coluinbia, are not bound by any of the prohiitions of tho
constitution.
But this is a doctrine to which I can never assent. Can it -be
said, that congress may pass a bill of attainder for thme district of
Columbia ? That congress may pass laws ex post facto in the dlistrict, or order soldiers to be quartered upon us in a time of peace,
or make our ports ee ports of entry, or lay duties, upon our exports, or take away the right of trial by jury, in criminal prosecutions?
Yet, all this they mavdo, if, jn.legislating for the district of Colum.
bia, they are not restricted by the express prohibitions of the consti.
+ttion. The words must be positive and strong indeed, to justify such
a construction. The only clause from which such an inference can
possibly seeni to flow, is that which says, "congress shall have
power t,exercise exclusive legislation in all cases whatsoever, over
such district,". &c.
But the whole instrument is to be taken together, and every
part is to be made consistent with the residue, if possible. That
congress iaay legislate, "In all cases whatsoever, over such district," &c. is the general proposition, and the prohibitions are the
e3ocep tions. The trlue construction is, that congress may legislate
tor us, in all cases where they are not prohibited by other parts of.
the cbnstitution. The express commands of the constitution operate as prohibitions of every thing repugnant to such commands.
In every case, therefore, where congress are not boulid, either by
the commands or proh'ibitions of the constitution, they have a discretionary pbwer to legislate over the district..
The constitution was made for the benefit of every citizen of the
UniteAd States, and there is no such citizen, whatever may be lils
condition, or wherever he may be situated within the limits of
the territory of the United States, who has not a right to the protection it affords.

FEBRUARY," 1805.

161

Mason, attorney for the United States for the district TZU-irrrz
of Columbia. The act of congress of Februarj 27, 1801,
sTA.Ds
Moax.
If congress are bound by the cobstitution in legislating for this
district, then it becomes proper to test the validity of their legis.
lative acts, respecting the district, by the provisions of the congtitution.
The 3d article of the constitution, provides for the independence
of the judges of the courts of the United States, 'by certain regulations ; -one of vhich is, that they shall receive, at stated times;
a compensation for their services, which zhall not be diminizhed dariqg
,their continuance in office.
The act of congress, of 27th of February, 1801, which constitutes the offlee of justices of the peace, and empowers them to try
personal demands, of the value of 20 dollars, ascertains the com,pensation which they shall have for their services in holdin" their
courts, and tryimg those causes. This ompensation is given in the
form of fees; payable when the services are rendered. The causes
of which they have cognizance, ard causes arising under the lass
of the United States, and, therefore) the power of trying them,
is part of th6 judicial power mentioned in the Sd article of the
constitution, which expressly declares, that the judicial power
-of the United States, shall extend to all cases arising under thos6
laws.
It is difficult to conceive how a magistrate can lawfully sit in
judgment, exercising judicial powers, and enforcing his judgments
by proces of law, without holding a courL I consider such a court,
thus exercising a part of the judicial power of the United States, as
an inferior court, and the justice of the peace as the judge of that
court. It is unnecessary in this cause to decide the question,
whethek, as such, he holds his office during good behaviour; but
that his compensation shall not be diminished during his continhlance in office, seems to follow as a necessary consequence from
the provisions of the constitution. It has been contended, that the
compensation of a ustice of the peace is not within this provision of
the constitution, tecause the act of congress has not appointed
the Ttated tinet at which it shall be paid. It is true, that the act-of
congress has not said that the compensation shall be paid on any
particular day, and uihonth; but it may, perhaps, be a compliance
with the clause of the constitution, which requires that it shall be
receivable at stated times, to say that it shall be paid when the
service is rendered. And, we are rather to incline to this construction, than to suppose the command of the constitution to have
been disobeyed.
If, therefore, the constitution of the United States is obligatory
tipoi congress, when legislating for this district ; if ajustice of the
peace is a judge of an inferior court of the United States ; and, if
his compensation has once been fixed by lax a subsequent law for
diminishing that compensation (a fortiori fur aboli:hingit) cannot
!ffect that justice of the peace during his continuance in office;
VoL I11.
Y

162

SUPREME COURT -U. S.

TUEUNITED

§ 11,vol. 5,p. 271, declares, "that thereshalbe appointed

S,-IA TES
V.

in and for each of the said counties, (in the district of Co-

MORE.

whatever effect it may have upon those justices who have been ap.
,pointed to office since the passing of the act.
MARSHALL, J. concurred.

KILTY, Ch. J. This is an indictment at common law, aIgainst
tliedefendant, a justice of the peace, for having, under colour of
his office, exacted and taken an illegal fee, as therein described.
The demurrer admits his being a justice, and the exaction and
receipt of the fee, and rests the defence on the legality of such
.conduct.
The legality of exacting and taking feds, under olour ofa public
office, must depend on the expt;ess authority ofjaw, and, therefore,
the question must turn-upon the acts which have passed on this
subject, as.it respects the district of Columbia.
The juqtices of'the peace were allowed expressly tp receive free
for their services, by the act' of February, 1801, section 11, apd by
the 4th section of the act of- March, 1801, they were, as comitiissibners, entitled to certainfeea and.emolumem:.
It is possible, that if the 11th section had only provided for the
appointment of justices, without speaking of their fees, the 1st
section, adopting the laws of the two states, might have had the
effect of giving them the feas provided by the laws of Maryland.
But an inquiry into this part 'of the subject is not important, be.
cause, as it has been observed in the course of the argument, so
imuch of those two acts as provides foi the compensition to the jus-'
tic±s, is repealed by the act of May, 1802 ; and it is not material
to determine by which of the sections.the provision was made.
The act of 1802, section 8, having positively declared, that this
provision was repealed, and having thereby left no power existing
to demand the fees before allowed, it remains only to examine into
the ground on which the latter act is alleged to be unconstitutional
and void.
According to the course which ha; been pursued by the supreme
court, it appears unnecessary to say any thing about the power of a
court to examine into the constittitionality of a law. until a case has
been made out to justify such an inquiry. But, taking the power for
granted, we are to inquire how it is called for in the present instance.
An testing an act of the legislature by the constitution, notbing
less than the positive provisions of the latter can be resorted to, and
without absplute restriction by the constitution, the legislatte
power is omnipotent over subjects submitted to it. We must, therefoNre, reject the idea of judging this act on the principles of a con.
tract, and setting it aside as an infraction of such contract.

FEBRUUARY, 18o5.

163

lumbia) suchnumberr-f discreqt persons, to be justices of
the United States shall, from
•
thepeace, as the presidentof
time to time, think- expedient, to continue in office five
-In support of the position, that the act of May, 1802, is unconsti.
tution'al and void, the following arguments have been urged:
1. That a justice is a judicial officer.
2. That a justice is i court.
3. That a justice shall receive for his services a comnpeation,
which shall -ot be diminished during his coiiiinuance in uttice ;
and that, therefore, taking away his fees, by repealing the act which
.gave them, is diminishing his compensation, and is contrary to the
constitution.
The nature of some of the duties confided to a justice of the
peace may make him a judicial officer ; and he might even be admitted to be a court, without bringing 'him within the provisions of
the constitution. The first section of the third article speaks or the
judicial power of the Urited States. It declares what courts it shall
be vested in, and then provides, that the judges of such courts shall
hold their offices during good behaviour, and shall, at stated times,
receive for their services, a compensation, which shall not be di.
miuished during their continuance in pffice.
-When we consider this instrument as constitutinu a general government, and defining, amongst .others, its judicial power, we
must take it in its most extensive sense, as'appl)ing to the whole
ofxthe United States, and not to a particular territory.
Iconsider, therefore, that the judicial power given to the traverser, as ajustice of the peace, is not, in the'sense of the constitu.
tion, the judicialpower.ofthe United States ;.and thst such justice is
not such a court as is provided for in the article and sction in question. The justice does not, according to that article and section,
hold his office during good behaviour; nor can the power of receiving certain fees, which was given by the act of 1801, be strained to
mean "receiving at stated times a compensation for his services.!r
The second section of the third article declares.what subjects the
judicial power, given by the first section, shall extend to. And by
comparing these subjects with those which are cngnizable by the
justice in the present case, it will confirm the position, that this
judicial power is not that of the United States, and is not provided
for by this part of the constitution.
Congress, in organising the judiciary according to the constitution, hq,-e createdasupreme court, and inferiorcourts. Sone ofthe
latter extend over certain circuits composed of different states, and
others are confined to the respective states; but in -all of them, it
is the judicial power of the United States which is carried into
effect.

TuZUJ zTXrI

SrA. rzl
Mo

SUPREME COXRT U. S.
'TZUNITED
STATES
V.

M E.

And such justices, having taken an oath for the
faithful and impartial discharge of the duties of the office,
shall, in all matters civil and criminal, and in whatever

years.

I consider this judicial power as being different in its object and
nature from that which may be the effect of the legislative power
given to congress over this territory, .or of their power to make
rules, &c. for such places as may become their property.
In order to show that the restrictions'contajned in the first section
of the third article of' the constitution do not extend to a justice in
the district of Columbia, itmay be necessary to make some inquiry,
into the principles on which the districtis erected.
Without endeavouring to solve all the difficulties which have been
mentioned in the course of the argument, I am persuaded that the
following positions are correct :-That the district of Columbia,
though belonging to the United States, and within their compass, is
not, like a state, a component part, and that the provisions of the
constitution, which are applicable particularly to the relative situa.
tion of the United-States and the several states, are not applicable
to this district.
That the power of congress to legislate for the district arlses
from the positive direction of the constitution, in the 8th section
of the first article; and it may be here material to attend to the
wyords "exclusive legilation," and to discover their meaning and
origin.
By the constitttiQn, the le'islative power of congress is confined
to certain objects, and leaves to the several states a portion of -the
legislative power which they before possessed, But it was the in.
.tentiort of the framers of the constitution, to divest the ten miles
vquare of the privileges of a state, and to give to congres's the whole
and exclusive power of legislation, as well on the subjects which
had been left to the states, as on those vhich had been taken from
them and given tO the general government-That the ten miles
square is not in a situation to become a state without an amendment
in the constitution, and therein differs from the other territories belonging to the United States-That the word exclusive meaning only
free from the power exercised by the several states, the legislative
power to be exercised by congress may still be subject to the general iestraints contained in the constittibn, though it includes sub.
jects both of a general and local nature. Thus they arc restrained
from suspending the writ of habeas corpru, unless in the cases al.
lowed ; from passing (within and for the district) a bill of attainder,
or ex post facto law ; from laying therein a capitation tax; from
granting therein any title of nobility ; from making therein a law
respecting the establishment ofreligion, or abridging the freedom
of speech, or of the press ; and from quartering soldiers therein,
contrary to the third amendment.
But when congress, in exercising exclusive legislation over this
territory, enact laws to give or .to take away the fees of the justices

FEBRUARY, 1805.

165

relates to the conservatiofi of the peace, have all the pow- THaUMVP
STA4TS
ers vested in, and shall perform all the duties required -f
.V
justices 'of the pea'ce, as individual magistrates, by the
laws herein before continued in. force in those parts of
said district for which they shall have been respectively
appointed; and they shall have cognizance in personal
demands to the value of, 20 dollars, exclusive of costs,
which sum they- shall not exceed, any law to the contrary
notwithstanding ; and they shall be entitled to receive for
their services, the fees allowed for like services by the
laws herein before adopted and continued in the eastern
-part of said district."
By the 4th section of the act of congress of 3d
Mtarch, 1801, pol. 5, p. 28"9, the magistrates are constituted a board of commissioners, with certain duties and
fees annexed to that office. And by the act of 3d of
i7fay, 1S02, vol. 6, p. 181, § 8, it is enacted, "that so
much of two acts of congress, the one passed on the 27th
ofFebruary, 1801, entitled, "An act concerning the district of Columbia," the other passed the 3d day of March,
1801, supplementary to the aforesaia act, as provides for
the compensation to ba made to certain justices of the
peace thereby created," "shall be, and the same is hereby
repealed.'"
lhe question for the decision of this cburc
is, whether congress had a constitutional right thus t9
abolish the fees.'
zones, contra. By the act of 1801, certain fees were
annexed to the office of justice of 'the peace. The traverser was appointed under that act, and while the 'ees
of the peace, such laws cannot be tested by a provision in the constitution, evidently-applicable to the judicial power of the whole'

United Stat's, and containing restrictions which cannot, in their nau
ture, affect the situation of the justices, or the nature of the coinpensation.

However ingeniously the question has been'argued, I cannot feel
any doubt in my mind on it. Nor can I perceive'any legal or justifiable ground under which the direction of theact of 1802 has been

disregarded.

I am, therefore, of opinion, that thn judgment on the

demurrer should be for the United States.
But the judgment of the court is for the'defen&nt:

SUPR)EME COURT U. S.
TAi.UNzTmn
STATE1S

Somr.

were thus annexed,* The principle we contend for, is,
that- he was a judge of an inferior court of the United
States, and protected by the.third article of the constiwwhich declares, that "the judges,' both of the supreme and inferior courts, shall hold their offices during
good behaviour, and shall,, at. stated times, receive tbr
their services, a compensation which shall not be diminished during their continuance in office."

Stion1

A law for abolishing the fees can only affect those justices who have been appointed since the passage of that
law.
It hias been decided in this court, in the case of. Mar-

bury v. Madison, (ante, v6l. 1, p. 162.) that a justice of
the pe*ace in the district of Columbia does not-h6ld his oflice at the will of the president.

The power to make laws is expressly given ; the power
to epeql is 'not, but necessarily follows. So the power
of appointment necessarily implies the power of removpl,
according to the maxim, cujus est dare, ejus est disponere.
This principle was settled id congress in the year 1789,
after long debate Upon the tenure of office of secretary of
state, and was expressed by means of a clause in the law
Alirecting what offic'r should take charge of the papers in
that department, when the secretary of state should be
removed by the piresident. Congress has no power to
limit the tenure of any office to which the president is to
appoint, unless in the case of a judge under the constitutiori. The position for which we contend is justified by
principle. The jurisdiction given to a justice of"the peace,
makes him a judge of an inferior court. Lord Coke defines a court to be a place where justice is judicially administered; and this clefinition is recognised by Blackstone. Certain powers are incident to all courts, as to
commit for c6ntempts in court ; f~r there is a difference
between courts of record, and courts not of record, as to
contempts out of court.
*This fact does not appear in the record, hut it was agreed by the

counsel on both sides', that the record should be so amended as to
bring'theL whole merits of the cause before thecourt.

FEBRUARY, 1805.

167

'By tht act of 180l, thejustices of the peace are to have THZUIZTr,.
STATZIS
the same powers, in all matters, civil and criminal, as
were exercised by the justices of the peace in Maryland.
Mon&
In resorting to the Maryland code of laws, wt find a very
earlh act of assembly, which gives to justices of the peace
the power of punishing contempts in their presence. Indeed, they possess.avast accumulation of powers. They
may inflict whipping, imprijsonment, and fine as high as
500 pounds of tobacco. They have a much more extensive jurisdiction than, many more regular courts. They
have cognizance of civil controversies of .the value of-20
dollars.. They hold courts, they try causes, they give
judgments, and. issue execations. Every one who consults the index to the laws of-Maryland, 'mustbe satisfied
that the justices of the peace constitute very important tribunals, and it is immaterial by what name they are called.i
they administer justice judicially ; they have, therefore,
the power to hold a court. The traverser 'was appointed
before the repeal. *Hehad a compensation, which is taken away by the repeal. It is, therefore, so far unconstitutional. It is no objection that the tenure of office is limited to five years. It is not the tenqre, but the
essence and nature of the office -'hich is to decide this
question. If the limitation to five.years makes a difference, it Would be an evasion of the constitution. But it
is of no consequence how congress have determined the
tenure. It is established by the constitution.
Mason, Ain reply. The constitution does not apply to
this case." The constitution is a compact. between the
,people -of the United States in their individual capacity,
and th6 tates in their political capacity.
Unfortuiitely for the citizens of Columbia, they are
not in eiher of these capacities.

-

The 2d section of the third article, of the constitution declares, that " the judicial power of the United States shall extend to all cases in law and equity,
arising under this constitution, the laws of the United
States. and treaties made, or which shall be made
unddr their atitbority ; to all cases affecting ambassadors,- other public minist rs avd consuls; to all 'cases
of admiralty and "maritime jurisdiction ; to controversies to which the United States' shall be a party; to

SUPREME COURT U. S.
controversies between two or more states ; between
a state and citizens of another state ; between citizen6
of different states; between citizens of the same state
Sclaiming lands -under grants of different states ; and
between-a state and, the citizens thereof, and ioreign
states, citizens or subjects."

THEUNITRD
STATES
V.
VR.

-

IThe judicial power of the United States
can only
extend to the cases enumerated; but the judicial power
exercised in the district of Columbia, extends to other
cases, and, therefore, is not the judicial power of the
United States. It is a power derived from the power
given to congress to legislate exclusively in all cases
whatsoever over the district. And it is under this
clause of the constitution thit congress have created
justices of the peace and given them power. Cqngress
are under no controul in legislating for the district of
Columbia. Their power, in this respect, is unlimited.
If congress cannot limit the tenure of the office, but it
must be during good behaviour, thet a law might be
passed without the concurrence of the legislative will.
I understand the case of Aarbury v. Miadison to
have decided only that the justices held during good
behaviour for five years under the law; and not generally during good behaviour, under th constitution.
The general provisions of the constitution do not
apply to our case. We are the people of congress.
They are to lqgislatefor us, and to their laws ve must
submit.
The executive power exercised' within the
,ones.
district of Columbia is the executive power of the
United States. The legislative power exercised in the
district is the legislative power of the United States.,
And what reason can be given why the judicial'power
exercised in the district-should not be the judicial pow.,
er of the United States ? If it be not the judicial
power of the United States, of what, nation, state or
political society is it the judicial power? All the officers in the district are officers of the United States.

FEBRUARY, 1805.

169

By the -td section of. the third article of the con- TN,.Trstitution, the judicial power of the United States is to
V.
extend to all cases arising under the laws of the United
mom
States. All the laws inforce in the, district are laws kue'-y-.S
'ofthe United States', and no case can arise which is
nut to be decided by those laws. What judicial power
is that which is exercised by the circuit court of the
distric; . They certainly exercige a very respectable
part of the judicial power of the United States. Was
it ever contended, that congress could limit the. tenure
of the'offices of the judges of that court? or that.the
judges were not liable to impeachment under the constitution ?
February 13.
The Chief 7ustice suggested a doubt whether the
appellate jurisdiction of this court extends to criminal
cases.
February 22.
Mason, in support of the appellate jurisdiction of this
court in criminal cases.
By the 1st section of the third article of the consti.
tution, thejudicial power of the United States is vestedin one supreme court; and in such inferior courts
as the congress may, from time to time, ordain -and
establish.,
By the 2d section it is extended to all cases in
law and equity arising under the laws of the United
States. This is a case in law arising under the laws of
the United States, and is, therefore, within that section.
"In all cases affecting ambassadors, other public
ministers and. consuls, and thoe -in which a state shall
be party, the supreme court shall have original jurisdiction. In all the other cases before-mentioned, the
supreme court shall have appellate jurisdiction, both
tas to law and fact, %dithsuch exception. and under such
regulations, as the congiess shall make."
Ve]. IlT.

z

SUPREME COURT U. S.

XvgsU,zrt,
SVr.ES
MonE.

•

Congress has made-no exception of criminal cases.
I understand it to have been said by this court, that
*itis necessary that congress should have made a regit"lationto enable this court to exercise its appellate jurisdiction. Upon this point I consider myself bound
by the case of Clarke v. Bazadone, ante, vol. 1.p.
212. It is clear, then, that this court has the jurisdiction, and -the only question is, whether congress has
made such a regulation-as will enable this court to exoicise it.

Such a regulation is contained in the 14th section
of the judiciary of 1789, vol. 1. p. 58,, 59, which
enacts, " that all the before-mentioned courts of the
United States shall have power to issue writs of scire
facias, habeds corpus, and all other writs, not specially
provided for by statute, which may be necessary for
the exercise of their respective jurisdictions, and agreeable to the principles and usages of law." The writ of
error in a criminal case is a writ not provided for by
statute, and necessary for the exercise of the appellate
jurisdiction given to the supreme court by the constitution, and agreeable to the principles and usages of
law. This court has, therefore, the power to isse it.
There is no reason why the writ of error should be
confined to civil cases. A man's life, his liberty, and
his good name, are as dear to him as his proprty ;
and inferior courts are as liable to err in one case as
in the other. There is nothing in the nature of the
cases which should make a difference ; nor is it a novel
doctrine that a writ of error should lie in a criminal
case. They have been frequent in that country from
which we have drawn almost all our forms of judicial
proceedings.
It is true, that it is expressly given by the act of con.
gress of 1789, in civil cases bnly, but it does not thence
follow that it should be denied in criminal.
MARSHALL, Ch. J. If congress had erected inferior courts, without saying in what cases a writ of
error or appeal should lie from such courts to this, your

FEBRUARY, 1805.

171

argument would be irresistible ; but whenthe constitu-

tion has given congress power to limit the exercise of

our jurisdiction, and to make regulations respecting
its exercise ; and congress, under that power, has
proceeded to erect inferior courts, and has said in what
cases a writ of error or appeal shall lie, an exception
of all other cases is implied. And this court is as much
bound by an implied as an express exception.

Mason. When legislating over the district of Co,
lumbia, 'congress are bound by no constitution. If
they are, they have violated it by not giving us a republican form of government. The same observation
will also apply to Louisiana.
The act of congress which gives a writ of error to
the circuit court of this district, differs, in some respects, from that which .gives the writ of error to the
other courts of the United States.
The words of the judiciary act of 1789, section 22,
are, "and upon a like process, (that is, by a writ of
error, citation, &c.) may final judgments anddecrees

in civil actioni, and suits in equity in a circuit court,"
&c. "be reversed or affirmed in the supreme court."
But in the law concerning the district of Columbia,
§8, vol. 5, p. 270, the expressions are, "that any final
judgment, order, or decree in said court, wherein the
matter in dispute, exclusive of costs, shall exceed the
value of one hundred dollars, may be 're-examined, and
reversed or affirmed in the supreme court of the United States, by writ ,of error or appeal, which shall be
prosecuted in the same manner, under the same regulations, and the-same proceedings shall be had therein,
as is, or shall be provided in the case of writs of error
on judgments, or appeals upon orders or decrees rendered in the cicuit court of the United States."
In this section, if the words respecting the value of
the matter in dispute, were excluded, a writ of error
would clearly lie in a criminal case, under the general
,expression, any final judgment. Then do those words
respecting the value, exclude criminal cases ? Suppose

Tr.Uu1rrzr
STATES

V.

.h'y-ft./

SUVREME CQVRT U. S.

f'2
THFUNITED
S
.ATES
V.
1ORE.

the court belowhad iniposeda fine of m6re than 100

dollars' the case would have befti within the express
ywords f the act. So it would haie been, if a penalty
more than 100 dollars had been imposed by law.

Sof

But thi! court has exercised appellate jurlsdiction in
a criminal case, United States v. Simms, ante, vol.
1, p. 252.

MARSHALL, Ch. J. No question was made, in that
case, as to the jurisdiction., It passed sub silentio,
and the court does not consider itself as bound by that
case.
Mason. But the traverser had able counsel, who did
notthink proper to make the objection.
March 2.
MARSHALL,

Ch. J.* delivered the opinion of th

court as follows:
This is an indictment against the defendant, for tak.
ing fees, under colour of his office, as q justice of
the peace in the district of Columbia.
A doubt has been suggeqted respecting the jurisdicti6n of this court; in appeals on writs of erfor, fronp
the judgments of the circuit court for that district,, irq
crimina cases ; and this question is to be decided be.
fore the court can inquire into the merits of the case.
In support of the jurisdiction 6f the court, the attorney-general has adverted to the words of the constitutiun, from which he seemed to argue, that as
criminal jurisdictiop vas exercised by the courts of the
United States, under the description of, t, all cases in
law and eqdity arising under the laws of the United
tates," and as tfhe appellate jurisdictionof this court,
was extended to all enumerated cases, other than those
7ohnson, Justice, was absent when this opinion was delivcrci

FEBRUARY, io0.

173

which might be broughteon originally, " with such exceptions, and under-stich regulations, as the congress
4hail make," that the supreme court possessed' appellate jurisdiction in criminal, as well as civil cases,
over the judgments of every court, whose decisiois it
would review, unless there should be some exception
or regulation made by congress, whicji should circumscribe the jurisdiction conferred by the constitution.
This argument would be unanswerable, if the supreme court had been created by law, without describ.ing its jurisdiction. The constitution would then have
been the only standard by which its powers could be
.tested, since there would be clearly no congressional
regulation or exception on the subject.
BuL as the jurisdiction of the court has been described, it has been regulated by congress, and an affirmqtive description of its powers must be understood as a
regulation, under the constitution, prohibiting the exercise of other powers than those described.
Thus the appellate jurisdiction of this court, from
the judgments of tbe circuit courts, is described affirmatively. No restrictive words are used. Yet it
has never been supposed, that a decision of a circuit
court couid be reviewed, unless the matter in dispute
should exceed the value of 2,000 dollars. There are no
words in the act restraining the supreme court from taking
cognizance of causes under that sum; theirjurisdiction
is only limited by the legislative declaration, that they
may re-examine the decisions of the circuit court,
where the matter in dispute exceeds the yalue of 2,000
dollars.
This cou-'t, therefore, will only review those judgment of the circuit court of Columbia, a power to reexamine which, is expressly given by law.
On examining tie act, " concerning the district of
Columbia," :he court is of opinion, that the appellate
jurisdiction, granted'by that act, is confined to civil
cases. The words, " matter in dispute," seem appropriated t9 civil cases, where the subject in contest has

THEU. ITzt

Z5

ST^

*oU
'.

y

SUPREME COURT U. S.
T'IU It-zT
s rr s

%

sr
Moan.

a value beyond the sum mentioned in the act. But, in
criminal cases, the question is the guilt or innocence of
the accused. And although he may be fined upwards
of 100 dollars, yet that is, in the eye of the law, a
punishment for the offence committed, and not the particular object of the suit.
The writ of error, therefore, is to be dismissed, this
court having no juribdiction of the case.*

FAW

FAW v. ROBERDEAU'S EXECUTOR.

R.BritDEAU'S
Ex ICUTOR

If an act ofliTHIS was an action in the circuit court of the
amitationshave
district of Coluiabia, for the county of Alexandria;
a clause,
;'saving to alland the question arose upon the construction of the
persons non act of assembly of Virginia, for " reducing into onef
mer menca-

the several acts concerning wills," &c. Revised Cjode,

vert, infants, p. 169, c. 92, § 56, which is in these words, viz. " If
imprisoned,or any suit shall be brought against any executor, or adout of the
minstrator, for the recovery of a debt due upon tn

mntaofr
rcvr
three years open account, it shall be the duty of the court, before
after their se- whom such suit shall be brought, to cause to be
veral disabi- expunged from such account, every item thereof,which
p
lries removfowvealth,

cd," a credi- shall appear to have been due five years before the
tor, resident death of the testator, or intestate. Saving to all, perof another sons non compos mentis, fenes covert, infants imstate,

re-

moves his dis- prisoned, or out of this commonwealth, who may be
ability by
coming into.
the common-

wealth, even
for temporary

purposes;

plaintiffs in such suits three yea.rs after their several
disabilities removed."
The declaration was for plank, scantling, and foun-

dation-stone,

lent by the plaintiff to the defendant.

provided the
debtor be at
that time
within the
See the case of the United States v. La Vengeance, 3 Dal. 297,
commonwhei-e it seems to be admittetd, that in criminal cases the judgment
.pwealth.
of the inferior court is final.

