SUPREME COURT U. E.
H'OPKIRK
V.

HOPKIRK v. BELL.

The treaty

THIS was a case certified from the circuit court for

of peace be- the fifth circuit, and Virginia district, in chancery sittween Great
Britain and

the United

States prevents the operation of the
act of limita-

ting, in which the opinions of thc judges (.arshall,

J1. and Griffin,

Ch.

district judge) were opposed upon the

following question:

"Whether the act of assembly of Virginia for the

tionsofVirgi- limitation of actions pleaded by the defendant was,

nia upon

Bri-

under all the cicumstances stated, a bar to the plaintiff's

tishdebtscon- demand founded on a promissory note given on the 21st
tracted before
day of August, 1773 ?"
that treaty.
An agent for

collecting of

The certificate contained the following statement of

debts merely,
is not a factor facts agreed by the parties, viz.
within the
That David Bell, the defendant's testator, had consimeaning of
the 13th setion of that - derable dealings with the mercantile house of Alexander

=ct.

Spiers, John Bowman &tCo. (of which house the plain-.
tiff was surviving partner) in the then colony of Virginia,
by their factors who resided in that colony, and on the
14th of March, 1768, gave his bond to the company for
6331. 8s. lid. 1-2, conditioned for the payment of 3161.
14s. 5d. 3-4 on'demand. That he also became farther
indebted in a balance of 1211. Os.4d. 1-2, an open account
for dealings afterwards had with the company by their
said factors. That on the 21st of August, 1773, Henry
Bell, the defendant, made his writing, or promissory
note, under his hand, attested y two witnesses, in the
following words, to wit: "I do hereby acknowledge
myself to stand as security to Messrs. Alexander Spiers,
John Bowman, & Co. of Glasgow, for the sum of four
hundred and thirty seven pounds, fourteen shillings
and ten-pence, current money of Virginia, being a debt
due them by my father, David Bell. Given under my
hand, this twenty-first day of August, one thousand
seven hundred and seventy-three. I am not to pay the
above till it is convenient."

FEBRUARY, 1806.

455

That the said Alexander Spiers, John Bowman, &
Co. were, at that time, British subjects, merchants, residents in Glasgow, in the kingdom of Great Britain, and
have never been resident within the limits' of the then
colony, now state of Virginia, and that James Hopkirk,
the surviving partner, now is, and always has been from
the time of his birth, -a British subject, resident in the
kingdom of Great Britain, and was never within the
limits of the commonwealth of Virginia. That the
company had a factor or factors resident in the commonwealth of Virginia on the 21st of August, 1773,
when the note was given, and from that time to the
commencement of the American war, viz. on or about
the first of Septenber, 1776. That the company had
neither agent or factor in this country, authorised to
collect their debts, from the commencement of the war
in 1776, until the year 1784. That on or about the
10th of September, 1784, and ever since, an agent has
resided in this commonwealth, authorised by power of
attorney, generally to collect all debts due to the company in this commonwealth.
That by the fourth article of the definitive treaty of
peace, between the United States and his Britannic
majesty, made on the third of September, 1782, "it is
agreed, that creditors on either side, shall meet with no
lawful impediment to the recovery of the full value, in
sterling money,, of all bona fide debts heretofore contracted." And by the second article of the convention
between his Britannic Majesty and the United States,
made on the 8th of January, 1802, "the said fourth
article," (of the treaty of peace) "so far as respects its
future operation, is recognised, confirmed, and declared
to be binding and obligatory," "and the same shall be
accordingly observed with punctuality and good faith,
and so as that the said creditors shall hereafter meet
with no lawful iunpediment to the recovery of the full
value in sterling money, of their bonafide debts."
That by the acts of the Virginia assembly, passed on
the
and the practicp of
the courts, British creditors, their agents, and factors,
were prevented from suing with effLct for their debts
in the courts of this commonwealth, from the

Hopr,,K
V.
BELt..

SUPREME COURT U. S.
Hor-Ric

v.

day of April, 1774, until the year 1790-and that this

suitwas commenced on the 4th of Jan. 1803.
By the fourth section of the Virginia act of limitations,
p. p. 107, actions upon the case on accounts are to be
brought within five years after cause of action. By
the twelfth-section there is a saving of persons beyond
seas; but by the thirteenth section it is provided, "that
all suits hereafter brought in the name or names of any
person or persons residing beyond the seas, or out of
this country, for the recovery of any debt due for goods
actually sold and deliveredhere, by his or theirfactor or
factors, shall be commenced and prosecuted within the
time appointed and limited by this act for bringing the
like suits, and not after, notwithstanding the saving
herein before contained, to persons beyond the seas at
the times their causes of action accrued."
C. Lee, for the plaintiff. The question is, whether
the act of limitations, which had once begun to run,
was an impediment removed- by the treaty?
This raises another question; did the treaty of peace
repeal the laws of the several states which operated as
legal impediments to the recovery of British debts, or
was an act of each state necessary for that purpose?
It may be conceded without injury to this case, that
the act of limitations began to run against this clainv,
before the war-and that the war did not suspend its
operation, but that it continued to run in the same man.
ner as against a person who is in the country at the time
the cause of action accrues, and who goes beyond seas
before the limitation is complete-or against a woman
who was sole when the cause of action accrued, and who
married within the five years.
The plea of limitations- can. defeat the remedy only.
The debt remains. But if the bar had been complete,
yet it was forever removed by the treaty.
This was a bonafide debt, contracted before the treaty
-and the act of limitations is a legal impediment which
it is endeavoured to oppose -to its -recovery. But the

'FEBRUARY, 18o6..

457

treaty says that .the creditor shall meet with no legal
impediment; itnd the constitution of the United States
declares the-treaty t9 be the suprene law of the land.-The actof limitations, therefore, must yield to the
treaty.
In the case of Ware v. Hylton, 3 Dal. 199, this
court, upon verv solemn argument decided, that the
treaty not only repea-d all thestate laws which operated as impdiments, but nullified all acts done, and all
rights acquired, under such laws, which tended to
obstruct the creditor's right, of recovery.
Similar adjudications were also made in the cases of
Eamnzon'v. Eaton, in 1796, by Ch. f. Elizuorth and
fudge !Yitgreaves, in Nor!h Carolina. Page v. Pendleton, in 1793, by ChEncellor Wythe, WVythe's Reports,
127; and by this court in The State of Georgiav. Brailsford, 3 Dal. 1.
Tlhe second article of the convention of 1802, between the United States and Great Britain, Laws U.
S. vol. 6, Appendix 49, was produced by the difference
of opinion at the board of commissioners for carrying
into effect the sixth article of the treaty of 1794. The
ideas of the United Staies, as to the effect of the treaty
in removing all impediments arising from legislative
acts, are expressed in the ans'ver to Cunningha9s,"claim,
in page 51 of the printed report of the proceedings of
the board.
The basis of the convention was the American con.
struction of the sixth article of the treaty of 1794. A
sum of 600,0001. sterling was stipulated to be paid by
the United States for all losses under the sixth article of
the treaty of 1794, and the creditors were to recover
from their debtor whatever they could in the ordinary
course of justice ; all legislative irmpediments having
been removed by the treaty of peace, which is recognised and confirmed by the convention.
3N
Vol. 11.

HoPirtur

V.

BZ LL.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
.21farch 4.

tINoPXUK

V.

BELL.

The Court ordered the following opinion to be certified to the circuit court:
Upon the question, in this case referred to this court
from the circuit court: it is considered by this court,
that the said act of limitations is not a bar to the plaintiff's demand on the said note; and this court is of
opinion, that the length of time from the giving the
note to the commexic'ment of the war, in 1775, not
being sufficient to bar the demand on the said note,
according to the said act of assembly, the treaty of peace
between Great Britain and the United States of 1783,
does 'not admit of adding the time previous to the war,
to any time subsequent to the treaty, in order'to make
a bar: and is also of opinion, that the agent merely
for collecting debts, mentioned and described in the
said state of facts, is not to be considered as a factor
within the meaning of the said act of assembly, so as
to bring the case within the proviso of said act.,
By this the court is not to be understood as giving an"
opinion on the construction of the note, as to the time
of payment.

WILLIAM MALEY v. JARED SHAtTUCK.

MALEY~

V.
SuATTUC4.
'

-,--,

ON the 20th of August, 1804, Jared Shattuck exhibited his libel in the district Court of the United States,
a for the district of Pennsylvania, in the following form :*

)

The corn-

nander of
United States
ship of war,

if he seizes a
vessel on the

high seas,
.without pro.
bable cause is
liable to make

*

As.there are so few forms of admiralty proceedings in print, it

is hoped that a recital of a considerable part of the record in this
case, will be acceptable to the profession; particularly as it is not
: libel in rem, bt for restituton in -value; fbi not bringing in the
vessel and cargo for adjudication.

