SUPREME COURT U. S.

29S
BtUDDrcum
V.
KzIRK.

cord, that he was. the guardian; and especially, as
the defendant became of full age, lefore the trial.
3. The objection to the applicability of the deposition, is also void of foundation. For, although it was
not conclusive evidence, it was still admissible.
The court is, therefore, of opinion7 that there is no
error in the judgment below.
Judgment affirmed.

DoUGLAsT

DOUGLASS &"MANDEVILLE v. M'ALLISTER.

AND MANDE-

VILLE

V.
MWALLIS-

TER.
ERROR to the circuit court of the district of Co
The court, lumbia, in an action of assumpsit, for not delivering

upon a jury- flour according to contract.
trial, isbound

to
give an
opinion, if re-

The transcript of the record contained, a bill of cx-

quired, apon ceptions, which stated, that the plaintiff offered in evianypoinrele- dence the following writing, addressed by the plaintiff

vant to the
issue.

below, to the defendants, the present plaintiffs in error,

In estimat- VIZ-

ing damages
for the breach
of a contract

to deliver

" Will you receive my flour on the following terms,

viz. Whenever a load of flQur is delivered, should any

flour, the jury cooperage be wanting, you charge it to the waggoner,

are to ascer- and deduct it from the carriage. You will credit me
tain the value
of the flour on with the highest market price at the time of delivery,
the day when and note it on the receipt ; and any balance of flour
the
cause of that may remain in your hands unpaid as it is delivaction
Sen arose.
.
ered, you will pay me when I send for it,, or deliver as
much flour as is coming to me, at my option. It is
understood, that in case the flour is delivered, storage
is to be allowed or charged at sixpence per barrel." Agreed. Given uder our hands,
April 27th, 1803..
(Signed)

Alexandria,

DOUGLASS & MANDEVILLE;

JouN 1'4'ALLISTER."

FEBRUARY, 1806.

299

The defendants had received from the plaintiff 408

DoUGLASS

barrels of flour under that contract, and the plaintiff A:-DMA.DrO-

made his election, and demanded the flour of the defendants on the 14th October, 1803. No final answer

was made by the defendants to the demand, till the
19th of November; but the intermediate time was
given to them to conhider of the demand, and make

propositions of compromise. No compromise being
made, and the flour not being delivered, this action
was commenced on the 21st -of the same month. It
did not appear that any answer was given to the plain.
tiff's demand. At the trial, the plaintiff offered ev'dence to the jury of the price of flour on the 19th and
21st days of November, the price being the same on
both days, and contended to the jury only for that
price.

Whereupon, the counsel for the! defendants

prayed the court to instruct the jury, that in estimating
the compensation for the non-delivery of the said flour,
they should be governed by the price of that article on
the day the plaintiff signified his option, and made his
demand under the contract, to bave the flour specifically delivered to him ; and further prayed the court,
in case the aforesaid instruction was not given, to direct the jury by what rule,. in point of time, they are
to take the price of flour, in the estimation of the damages sustained by the plaintiff, by reason of the breach
of the contract. But the court being divided in opinion
upon those points, (two judges only being present) did
not give the instructions as prayed, wherefore the de,.
fendants excepted, &c.
The jury found a verdict for the plaintiff, for 2,159
,dollars anc, 48 cents, upon which judgment was rendered accordingly, and the defendants' brought their
writ of error.
The question before this. court was, whether the
courtbelow ought to have given the instructions prayed
for Jy the plaintiffs in erroi,
This question was submitted, without argument, by
Swann, for the plaintiffs in error, ;ind .E. 7, Lee, for
the defendant.

V.

m'ALLZSTrll.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
February 17.

DOUGLASS
ANDMANDEVSLISZ

v.
'ALLISTER.

MARSHALL, Ch. J, The error complained of i6,
that the circuit court did not give an opinionon a point

proposed.

'opinion,

The court was certainly bound to give an
if required, upon any point relevant to the

issue.
It appears, from the facts stated, that the cause of
action did not accrue until the 19th of November,
when the negotiation for a compromise was broken off.
A tender of the flour at any time, after the 14th, and
before the 19th, would have been a compliance with
the contract.
As the plaintiff claimed no more than the price of
the flour on the 19th, and as the refusal of the court to
instruct the jury, did not alter the verdict, which was
for the price on that day, and was for the same amount
as if the opinion had been given, there is no error of
wNih the defendants could complain.
Judgment affirmed, with costs.

SIMMS AXB

SIMMS AND WISE v. SLACUM,

W.ISE
,V.

SLACUM.

ERROR to the circuit court of the district of Colum.
bia, in an action of debt brought by Slacum, as assignee
son-rules un- of Charles Turner, sergeant of the court of Hustings of
der the inSoI- 4 lexandria, upon a prison-bounds-bond, in which Simns
I
A discharge
from the 4"r.
vent

act of

Virginia, at- was the principal and Wise the surety.
though obtained isbya dis- is The condition
imi
fraud,
fcau
chargei in due esse Simms, in

of the bond was as follows: "Whereas
jail and custody, by virtue of a writ of
eourve of a ; capias ad satisfaciendum, sued out of the clerk's office of
anduponsuch the court of Hustings, holden in Alexandria, dated the
discharge no 12th day of August, 1800, at the suit of George Slacum,
action can be
sustained up- assignee of Charles Turner, sergeant of the court of Huson thqprison. tings aforesaid, for the sum of 1,285 dollars and 45
touwidebond.

