SUPREME COURT U, S.MA1L74GJ

MILLIGAN, ADMINISTRATOR OF MILLI.

v, MILLEDG,
GAN
.
.. .

MILL.IGE
EDGE
M DILL

A plea in
bar to a bill in
chancery, denying only

part of thp

& WIFE.*

ERROR to the circuit. court for the district of
Georgia, in chancery sitting.

bill, is not

The object of the bill was to recover from the de.
fendants, as legatees
and devisees of George Galphin,
'
i t
deceased, a debt due by him to the complainant s in,

but not for a
plea.
The want of

that the complainant is the administrator of Milligan,
the survivor; that in the year 1770, they supplied
George Galphin with goods; that in 1773, George

bill sug ests

David Holmes,, and John Parkinson, under the firnM
that on the credit of G,

ta e d.infacts
staterd
the

\

good. A mere testate, as surviving partner, of Clark and Milligan.
enial of facts The bill - charges, that Clark, and Milligan were meris
*1n proper
answer,for chants in London; that Milligan survived Clark, and

proper'parties
Is not a good Galphin requested them by letter to supply goods to
plea, if the his three sons, Thomas, Georgeand John, his nephew
that such par- of Galphin 4nd Holmes;
ties are out of
the jurisdic- Galphin, the elder, they
tion of the
said company.
court.
The want of

proper parties

shipped *goods, &c. to te

That in 1776,G. Galphin, the elder, wrote to Clark

is not suffiand Milligan,-to furnish goods to the said company, at
cient
ground their store in Pensacola, and that he would see them
for dissmissig
te bilL
paid ; that relying on the said engagement, they ship-

ped further goods to the said company at Pensacola 1
and on the 31st of December, 1780, G. Galphin, the
elder; owed,
sterling.
For himself,
ยฃ1,120 1 9
For Galphin', Holmes & Co,
1,29Q 5 3
And, Jan. 1, 1784, for the Pensacola firm, 3,959 15 9

al Qf, which is now due and unpaid.
*Present,

Marshall, Ch. J.

Chisng, Pateriop and Washbigton,

.3Justices.
This cause was.called for argument on the 2d of March, but the
counsel not having prepared statements of the points for the cpurt;
agr eably to the rule, the court refused then to hear It.

FEBRUARY, 1805.

221

ThiatG. Galphin, the elder, died testate in 1781, or UX.LLIZOJU
V.
1782 andduly appointed James Parsons, John Graham, Laughlin M'Gilvrav, John Parkinson, William
Dunbar, and his-sons, John, George and Thomas
Galphin, his executors; and left real and personal
estate, sufficient to pay all his just debts.
That all the exedutors declined the trust, excepting
the three sons ; that the copartnership of Galphin,
day of
Holmes & Co. was dissolved on the
without any funds for the payment of their debts;
that John and George Galphin, two of the executors,
never meddled with the deceased's estate, having been
long insolvent, are not within reach of the process of
this court, are unknown to the complainant, and gone
,to places out of his knowledge.
ThatWiriam Dunbar is dead, leaving no assets of
$he deceased's estate.
That David Holmes is dead, and left no property,
to the knowledge of the complainant.
That Thomas Galphin and John Parkinson are out
of the jurisdiction of the court, and not possessed of
;tny propertyj to the knowledge -of the complainant.
That John Milledge, and Martha his wife, who is
daughter of G. Galphin, the elder, and a principal legatee and devisee under his-will, have received, and .are
possessed of, lands, negroes, and assets of the estate
of her father, which came to,them by descent, deviie,
or distribution, and liable to the claim of the'complainant.
That Thomas, who resides in South-Carolina, holds
no property of the deceased in South-Carolina ; that
the assets in that state have all been exhausted in saisfying.piior judgments, or otherwise.
That all the assets are in Georgia, in the hands of
MIilledge and -wife, who must be considered as the
agents and trustees of the executor, Thomas Galphin,
pr bf the creditors2 and liable to account for the same.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
MI.*LIGAN

M.

oE

A"ID WIFE.

Milledge and wife, the only persons made defendrots in the bill, pleaded in bar, as'follows:
IThe plea of Martha Milledge, one of the defend.
ants to the bill of complaint of William Milligan.
" The- end of the "complainant's bill is to render

liable to the payment and satisfactionof an unliquidated
demand on an open account, said to be due by the
estate of George Galphin, in his own right, and as
security and guarantee for Galphin, Holmes and com.
pahy, certain property, real and personal, which is
charged by the complainant to -have come into the
hands and possession of this defendant, as one of the
devisees' and legatees of the said George Galphin, de.
ceased.
" This defendant, by protestation not confessing all
or any of the matters contained in the said bill to be
true, in such manner and form as the same is therein
set forth and alleged, doth plead in bar of -the same,
and for plea saith, that the complainant states that
David Holmes, late copartner in the house of Galphin,
Hol"mes 4r"Co. and David Holmes and Co. is dead,
and left no property or legal representatives, at his
decease, within the state of Georgia; that neither John
Parkinson, nor William Dunbar, have ever qualified
on-the-will of George Galphin, And have never come
irito the possession of any of' the estate of the said
George Galphin, or if-they have, that it is disposed of
and exhausted; that Thomas Galphin holds no property or estate of the said George Galphin, and that the
assets of the said estate in the state of South-Carolina,
have all been exhausted in satisfying prior judgments,
or otherwise.
" But this defendant avers, that the said David
Holmes died .possessed of considerable estate, real
and personal, part of which, if not all, mudt be in pos.
session of his legal representatives; that William Dunbar yualiqed on the will of the said George Galphin,
and died, leaving in the possession of his executors,
administrators or legal representatives, considerable
estate,'real and personal, which he got, either by being

FEBRUARY, 1805.

223

one of the qwalilfed and acting executors on the said MbULLZCa-I
will, or by his intermarriage with Judith Galphin, one MVLDPE
. wz.
of the devisees and legatees under the will of zhe said
- George.
" A1nd this defendent further -avers, that Thomas
Galphin and John Parkinson, charged and stated to be
'two of the surviving copartners of Gaphin, Holmes &
Co. and- David Holmes & Co. of which this defendant
knoweth not, and said Thomas Galphin, being now
the only 'acting and qualified executor of the last will
and testament of, the said George Galphin, are, and
this defendant is ready to show, that they must be in
-possession of coipsiderable real and personal estate,
derived from the estate of the said George Galphin,
deceased; that they are the proper persons lible and
interested to contest, and who can with safety contest,
the 'complainant's demands, if any he has, and the
relief prayed in the said bill.

" And this dfendant doth further a ver, that tho
debt or demand of the complainant, if any doth exist,
originated in the state of South-Carolina; that all material, necessary, and indispensable and requisite parties, to wit, the said Thomas Galphin and John taikinson, and thp executors, administrators or legal representatives of William Dunbar, live, and notoriously
and openly reside, in the state of South-Carolina, and
in possession of estates, real and personal, sufficient to
pay the complainant's demand, if any he has, and
which estates and -property are more particularly liable
to the said demand, if any he has; and that the said
parties are also amenable and compellable to appear to
any suit or bill brought against them by the said complainant, for his said demand, if any he has, in' the
state aforesaid. All of which facts are in the knowledge of the complainant, and to him well known, before the filing of his said bill, for that the complainant
also lives and resides in the state of South-Carolina;
that this defendant is an entire stranger to, and ignorant
of -the merits and justice. of the claim set up by the
complainant, not being named as executrix inn the will
6ftthe said George Galphin, or ever having intermcddled with the concerns of the said estate, or any wfys

SUPREME COURT U. 9.
MILTLto*A
SV.

VIL.DOZ

AND W,

%

interested in the copartnership aforesaid. All whilematters this defendant doth aver and plead, in bar of
the complainant's said bill, and of his pretended de.
mands, for which he seeks to be relieved by his said
bill. And this defendant prays to be hence dismissed,
with her reasonable costs, in this behalf most wrongfulty sustained."
This plea was sworn to, before ajustice of peace,
The plea of John Milledge was the samef in sub.
stance, as that of hi wife.
There was also a joint and several answer of Milledge and wife, which states no other facts than the
following: viz. " That there never did exist any secret or special trust, promise, covenant, or understanding, between these defendants and the executors
of George Galphin, the elder, deceased, as charged in
the bill of complaint; or did these defendants, or either
of them, ever give any bond of indemnity, or other
security whatever, to be accountable to Thomas Galphin, or John Parkinson, or any or either of the executors of the said George, for any property, real or
personal, which might have come into the possession,
or held by either of these defendants. That there does
not now exist any secret or special trust, promise, covenant or understanding between these defendants and
And the'e defendants do,
the executors aforesaid.
jointly and severally, deny all manner of unlawful combination,1 ' &c. "withbut that, that any other matter or
thing in the said bill of complaint contained, material
or necessary for these defendants to answer unto, not
herein answered unto. All whidh matters and things
these defendants are ready to aver and maintain," &c.
At May term, 1803, of the circuit court, holden by
his honor, Judge Moore, the only entries on the ttanscript of the record which came up, are, as follows:
"Bill and amended bill." "Plea and answers." " On
argument the plea sustained." There is ho entry of a
demurret', or motion, or of any other proceeding, except the continuances, after filing the pleas and answers
until the May term, 1803.

FEtRUTAR-k, 1805.
At May term, 1804, of the circuit court, holden
by his honor, Judge Johnson, the following decree was
made.
"This cause came on to be heard this 14th day of
May, in the year of our Lord, 1804, upon the bill
and exhibits, and the pleas and answers of the defendants; whereupon, it appearing that in the term of
May, 1803, before the honourable Alfred Moore,
one of the judges of the said court, the cause was
heard upon the bill and the pleas, arid that after argument, it was adjudged by the court, at the term of
May, 1803, that the said plea be sustained; and it appears that the complainani hath not replied to the said
plea. It is therefore ordered and decreed, that the
bill of complaint be dismissed, in pursuance and conformity to the decision of the court at the said term,
upon the said plea, the same appearing to the court,
to be conclusive on the merits of the complainant's bill,
Dated at Savannah, the day and year before
written.
WILLIAM JOHNSoN, Jun.
The complainant sued out his writ of error, and
assigned for error,
1st. That by the said decree it is adjudged and de.
creed, that the plea in bar aforesaid, and the matters
therein contained, are sufficient to debar the complainant from the discovery and relief sought after by his
said bill of complaint, and are conclusive on the merits
thereof, and that, therefore, the said plea should be
sustained as a valid -and sufficient answer to the bill of
the complainant. Whereas, the said plea is altogether
irrelevant and insufficient, and contains no matter,
which, in law or equity, ought to bar the discovery
and relief sought after by the bill aforesaid.
2d. That by the said decree, it is adjudged that the
bill be dismissed, whereas, by the law of the land,
and the rules of equity, a decree ought to have been
made in favour of the complainant, for want of -a sufVol. 11L
Gg

71ILLICA.N

V.

AND wrIP.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
MILLIGAN

V.

Mi r.L DG E

ficient answer upon the nierits of the said bill, as to the
relief prayed thereby.

Alin WiFn.

"'

.'

.Key, for plaintiff in error, contended, that the pleas
in bar were insufficient and informal, and contained
matter not proper for a plea.
The defence proper for a plea, must be such as reduces the cause to a partiiular point, and from thence
creates a bar to the suit'; 'and is to save the parties ex.
pense in examination. It is not every good defence in
equity, that is likewise good as a plea ; for where the
defence consists of a variety of circumstances, there
is . o use of a plea ; the examination must still be at
lar;e ; and the effect of allowing such a plea, will be,
that the court will give their judgment on the circumstances of the case, before they are made out by proof.
1 Atk. 54. Chapman v. Turner.
A plea cannot be a mere denial of facts charged in
the bill; for such matter- is only proper for an answer.
But such a plea may be permitted t6 stand for an answer, with, leave to except 'to its insufficiency. I
Brown, Ch.Ca. 408, 409, 410.
The plea in this case sets forth five several distinct
and independent matters, each of which isa denial of
some allegation in the bill, and is, therefore, not proper for a plea,, but for an answer. Nor do they go to
make up one defence.
The most that can be said of the plea is, that it
shows 'that fhere are other persons who ought to be
made parties in the cause. Considered in this view',
it may be supposed, perhaps, as iequiring that Thomas
Galphin, J. Parkinson, the representatives of David
Holmes, and those of W. Dunbar, should have been
made parties.
There can be no ground of requiring the representitives of Holmes to be made parties, because we seek
relief only against the estate of G. Galphin, the elder,
and not against that of Holmes. As to the representatives of Dunbar, even if it be true that he qualified

FEBRUARY, 1865.
as executor, yet we are not bound to proceed against 'TLLmr.
them, as there is an executor surviving. We ask no M!ILLE'DOU
relief against Parkinson, and, therefore, we need not A.D wir.
make him a party. And as to Thomas Galphin, he
is expressly alleged in the bill, and admitted in the
plea, to be out of the jurisdiction of' the court, and
therefore, we werd not bound to make him a party.
This is expressly laid down by .itford, in his treatise
of pleading, p. 93, who says, " if a want of proper
parties is not apparent on the bill, a defendant may
plead it; and a plea of this nature goes both to the discovery and the relief. But where a sufficient reason is
suggestedby the billfor not 7laking the necessaryparty ;
as where a personal representative is a necessary party,
and the bill states that the representation is in contest,
in the ecclesiastical court ; or where a necessaryparty
is resident abroad, dut of theijirisdictionof the court,
and the bill charges thatfact; or where the bill seeks a
discovery of the necessary parties, a plea for want of
'partieswill not be allowed. A plea for watit of parties
to a bill, for a discovery merely, will not hold ; for the
plaintiff in that case seeks no decree." Frec. in Ch.
83. Cowslad v. Cely. 2 .Atk. ยง 10. Darwent v. Wlalton.
As far as our bill seeks for relief, we could recover
at law, against the defendants, as executors in their
own wrong. It is true, that in equity, an executor de
son tort is nqt known, but whenever a person would,
at law, be executor de son tort, he will, in equity, be
considered as a trustee for the creditors.
Real estate is in Georgia considered as assets. (See
the case of Telfair v. Stead's executors,- in this court
at this term, ante, vol. 2, 407.)
The bill charges that the defendants have assets.
All the facts charged in the bill, and not denied in
the plea or answer, are to be considered as admitted.
The bill also charges, that there are no assets in
South Carolina.
We were, therefore, obliged to go against the assets
in Georgia.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
X,

AND

r A

It is no bar to say, that there is an executor in South

L.O

Carolina who has no assets ; and it was not necessary

WIFE.

that we should make such an executor a party,
MARSHALL, Ch. J. The only question is, whether
it is not necessary that you should bring a suit against the
executor in South Carolina, to establish the debt ; because, as to that, he is the proper person to defend.
After having obtained such ajudgment, the complainant
would be at liberty to follow the estate in the hands of
the defendants, in Georgia. It is not necessary to
consider them is executors in their own wrong.; fo
you may proceed against devisees or legatees, if the
executor has no assets.

Key. If the bill is against the heir, it is not necessary to make the executor a party,
MARSHALL, Ch. J. But that is, where the heir is
the proper ptrson to defend.

Key. It is not necessary to make the executor a
party; when we can have no relief against him, 2 E.
Ca. Ab. 167. But if he ought to be a party, yet itis
cause for dismissing the'bill.
MARSHALL, Ch. J. No doubt of that. The bill
might have stood over to make new parties.

March 6.
MARSHALL, Ch. J. The court is of opinion, that
the court below erred in admitting the pleas, and dismissing the bill.

Judgment reversed.*
The decree of reversal was as follows: "T h is cause coming
on to be heard and considered, and counsel on the part of the u'zpellant being heard, and.the bill, pleas, and answers, being read
and considered,
Itis adjudged, ordered and decreed, that the decree of th2
circuit court be reversed, with costs of this appeal ; that the plew
of the defendants be overruled, and that they be ordered and decreed to answer the bill exhibited against them."

