FEBRUARY, 18o5.

COOKE v. GRAHAM'S ADMINISTRATOR.*

Coorc
V.
c nHAM*S
TnATO N.

ERROR to the circuit court of the district of ColumA variance
Alexandria.
bin, siing at
in date be.
tween the
The declaration was in debt on a bond dated the 3d of bond declared
October, 1799, in the penalty of 5,000 dollars. Onoyer, uPtn, and
the bond appeared to be dated the 4d of .7anuarV, 1799, nthtproduced
pod
and the condition was as follows: "Whereas, the said matterofsubStephen Cooke did lend to Josiah Watson, of the town stance,andftaof Alexandria, twenty-five hundred dollars of the said tal upon tho
William Graham's money; and the said Josiah Watson Ptc._qff',sP.
ail dmrr
having failed, but before he failed paid five hundred dol- to the defen.
lars ; and whereas, the said Stephen Cooke hath instituted danes bail re.
a suit against the said Josiah Watson, for the recovery of joilnder
The court
the said money-Now the'condition of the above obliga- may depart
tion is' such, that if the said Stephen Cooke shall well and fromtheletLr
truly pay the whole sum so lent, if it can be recovered of the condifrom the said Josiah Watson, or his indorsor ; or in case tion of a bond,
into
it cannot be wholly recovered, will lose the one half of t
jcarry
in.
that sum which cannot be recovered, then the above obli- tention of the
gation shall be void, otherwise to .remain in full force PartiCs.
and virtue."
After oyer granted;,he defendant had leave to imparle,
but not pleading at the rule day, judgment was rendered
at the rules for want of a plea.
Atthe next term, the defendant set aside the officejudgment," by demurring generally to the declaration,
which demurrer was joined by the plaintiff.
Afterwards, on-motion, the defendant had leave to
withdraw his demurrer, and pleaded general performance of the condition- of the bond. To which the plaintiff
replied, and assigned a breach in this, that the defendant
has not paid the sum of money mentioned in the condi* Present, MfaraAll, Ch. J. Cushing, Patermon and. W*Ainogtcn,

Justices,,

SUPREME COURT- U. S.
COOKE
Gu.s

GADMIN'
TRATOR.

tion, or any part thereof. The defendant rejoined, that
the sum of money in the condition mentioned, lent by
,him

to Watson, could not be recovered from the latter,

or his indorsor.

To this rejoinder the plaintiff demurred specially;
Ist. Because the defendant doth not state, in his rejoinder, that he used all legal means for the recovery of the
said 2,500 dollars of Watson, and his indorsor.
2d. Because the defendant does not state that lie has not
recovered any part of the said 2,500 dollars of the said
Watson, or his indorsor, or how much of the 2,500 dollars remains unrecovered of the said Watson, or his indorsor.
3d. Because the defendant is bound to pay one half of
the sum that is not recovered of the said Watson, or his
indorsor; and if the defendant has not received" any part
of the 2,500 dollars of the said Watson, or his jndorsor,
then he is bound, by the condition of the said boud, to
pay one half of the sum of 2,500 dollars to the plaintiff.
S'4th. Because the defendant does not give any answer
as to the sum of 500 dollars, stated in the condition of the
said hond to have been received by him'of the said Watson, before the execution of the said bond.
5th. Because the rejoinder is a departure from the plea
of conditions performed.
Upon this demurrer, the judgment of the court being
in favour of the plaintiff, the defendant, upon motion, had
le'ave to file an additional plea, whereupon he pleaded,
that the whole sum lent to Watson could not be recovered of him or his indorsor, nor could any part thereof be
recovered, except the sum of s06 dollars, mentioned in
the condition of the bond ; by means whereof the, defendant became liable and. bound to phy to the plaintiff
only one half of the said sum which could not be so recovered, and that the defendant paid to the plaintiff's intestate the said one half of the said sum 6f money which
he was liable and bound to pay as aforesaid. To whikh
plea there was a general replication and issue, and verdict
for fle plaintiff for 2,032 dollars and 75 cents.

FEBRUARY, 1805.

231

On the trial f this issue a bill of exceptions was taken
Coovr,
v.
by the'defenidant below to the opinion of the court, that
thie plaintiff was entided, by the said bond, to recover of GnAma's
the defendant the sum of 500 dollars at all events ; and TRoa.
that he gas also thereby entitled to recover of the defendant the'residue of the said 2,500 dollars, if thejury should
be of opinion that the defendant tould have recovered
the same of the said Watson, or his indorsor. And if.
they should be of opinion that no part of the said residue
could have been so recovered, then the plaintiff is thciebv
entitled to recover of the defendant one half of the said
residue in addition to the said sum of 500 dollars.
Other exception$ were taken at the trial, but were
abandoned by the plaintiff in error in this court.
Simms, for plairitiff in error, contended,
1st. That the judgment of the court below, upon the
demurrer, ought to have been for the defendant, inasmuch as there was a material variance between the bond
produced on oyer, and that stated in the delaration ; the
former bearing date on the 3d day of January, 1799,' and
the latter being alleged to bear date on the 3d day of October, in the same year.
2d. That the court erred in their construction of the
condition of the bond, in supposing that the sum of 500
dollars, mentioned to have been received from Watson,
was covered by the penalty, and in instructing the jury
that the plaintiff was entitled to recover that sum at all
events ; and, in addition thereto, a moiety of the balance,
if the whole balance could not be recovered by the defendant of Watson, or his indorsor.
.1st. On a demurrer, the court must go to the first error
in the pleadings. In this case, although the rejoinder is
bad, yet the declaration is bad also. If the plaintiff dedares on a bond of different date from that produced on
oyer, advantage may be taken of the variafice on demurrer. The plaintiff need not wait 'till it is produced in
evidence. The variance may also be pleaded in abatement. 2 Salk. 658, Holman v. Borough. In the case
of Hole v. Finch, 2 Wits. 394, the court said, " th4t for-

SUPREME COURT U. S.
COOKE
v.
Gc AAN's

"TRAToa.

merly, when the whole' originalwrit was spread in the
same roll with the count thereupon, if a v'ariance appeared between the writ and count the defendant might have
taken advantage thereof, either by motion in arrest of
writ of error, plea in abatement, or demurrer.

.judgment,

But afterwards it was-determined, that if the defendant
will take advantage of a triance between the writ and
count, he must demand oyer of the writ, and show it to
the court. By the act of jeofails of Virginia, Reviscd
Code, p. 118, ยง 26, no judgment after verdict shall be
staid for the omission of the day, amonth or year, in the
declaration or pleading, (the name, sum, quantity or time,
being right in any part of the record or proceeding.)
This shows, that before that act, such omission might
have been taken advantage of by motion in arrest of judgment.
WASHINGTON, J. Will the principle of going up to
the first error, apply to a special demurrer by the adverse
party ?

Simms.

Certainly.

MARSH ALL, Ch. J. Can the variance be taken. advantage of on a general demurrer ?

.Simms. Yes.

It is matter of substance.

2d, As to. the construction of the bond.
By the opinion of the court, the-plaintiff was entitled,
by the bond, to recover the 500 dollars at all events.
The 500 dollars are only mentioned in the preamble of
the condition, which, like that of a statute, has no obligatory effect. It is no part of'th.: ondition of the bond,
that the defendants should pay thai sum. It might have
been paid over before, or the intestate may have been satisfied with relying on the defendant's simple acknowledgment that he had received it. The condition is in the alternative, and only one of two things is to be done.
1st. Either to pay over the whole 2,500 dollars, if he
could recover it from Watson, or his indorsor-or, 2d. If
he could not recover the whole sum, to pay over one hall
of such sum' as he could not recover. There is no obli-

FEBRUARY, 1803.
gation, under the bond, to pay over what he had already
received. Perhaps the plaintiff may bring an action for
money had andreceived for the 500 dollars. But it is
not material how he is to recover it. It is sufficient, in
the present case, that its payment is no part of the cbndition of this bond.
The sum which could not be recovered is capable of
beifig ascertainined; arid it is now ascertained to be 2,000
dullars. - One half of that is the sum which the defendant"
agreed to lose. It is, therefore, the same as- if the condition of the bond had been to pay the sum of 1,000 doiBut if no *partof the money lent could be recovered of
Watson, or his indorsor, then the defendant could not be
bound to. pgy more than the one half of the whole sum,
which is only 1,250 dollars. In no case is he bound by
the bond to pay more than that sum; and yet the jury
have given the plaintiff 1,500 dollars, with interest thereon, from the date of the bond.

E. V.. Lee, contra, admitted the general rule, that upon
ademurrer, the court is to look for the first error, and
give jpdgment accordingly; but that, in this case, the
state of the-pleadings makes a difference. The declaration
was filed in due time, and a profert made: A judgment
was obtained against the defendant, in the office, for want
of a plea. This judgment was set aside by the defendant's
appearance and entering a general demurrer, which was
afterwards withdrawn, and a general performance of the
condition of the bod pleaded. By this plea, after oyer,
he had admitted, that the bond declared on is the same as
that produced on oyer. And having thus admitted it to
be the same bond, the omission of its true date, in one
part of the declaration, can only be matter of form. He
has not pleaded it in abatement, nor demurred specially.
On the plaintiff's special demurrer the defendant cannot
take advantage of a formal variante ; he can ply avail
himself of it by demurring specially himself. Every
thing is form, without which, a right of action appears to
the court. Eyery thing which the court may.amend, without altering matter of substance, is aided by a general
demurrer. Sat,. 88. So, every'thing which may be amdndVoL II.
Hh

Coorz
v.
J.D,,2;y3ToA,.

284
cQoi.'
V.
PRAHAM'S
A. MINISTRATOl.

SUPRtME COURT U. S.

ed under the statute, of which would be cured by a verdict, is cured by a general demurrer.
2cd. As to the second point, there can be no doubt.
The condition of the bond isrthat the defendant shall pay
the whole sum so lent, viz. 2,500 dollars, if it could be recovered by the defendant from Watson. But at thetiine
the bond was executed, the defendant could recover only
.2,000 dollars of Watson, in, any eveti, because Watson
had already paid 500 dollars. In .this case, the 500 dollars is covered by the penalty.

But it is said, that these 500 dollars were not to be paid
over unless the defendant recovered the whole sum from
Watson ; or in.other words, that the 500 dollars were a
premium to the defendant fcr losing 2,000 dollars of the
plaintiff's money. But the whole was to be paid over
when recovered ; the whole includes all its pfirts ; hence
every part was to be paid over when recovered.
Simms, in reply.
1st. When a man demurs, he puts every thing to hazard in his own pleadings ; and his adversary may take
the same advantage as if he himself had demurred.
MARSHALL,

Ch. J. As if he had demurred generally.

Simms. There is a difference between what a court
would amend, and what cali be amended under the tatute.
2d, As to the condition of the bond.
No man can be compelled, by his bond, to pay more
thban he expressly agreed to pay. The defendant has only
bound himself to pay the whole, in case the -Whole could
be recoveied. It does not appear that tle 500 dollars were
not paid or settled in some other way.

FEBRUARY, 1805.

coozz

.~farch 6.
MARSHALL, Ch. J. delivered the.opinion of the court,
to the following effect:

The 'plaintiff declares upon a bond, dated the 3d of
October ; and upon oyer, the bond appears to bear date
the 3d of January preceding.
By the oyer, the bond is made a part of the declaration. There were several pleadings, and among
the rest, a bad declaration, a bad rejoinder, and a special
demurrer by the'plaintiff to this bad rejoinder. When the
whole pleadings are thus spread upon the record by a demurrer, it is the duty of the court to examine'the whole,
and go to the fir L error. When the special demurrer is
by the plaintiff, his own pleadings are to be scrutinized,
and the court will'notice what would have been bad upon
a general demurrer. The variance between the date of
the bond declared upon, and that produced on pyer, is
fatal.
Upon the second point the court is of opinion, that
there is no error in the construction given by the court
below to the condition of the bond. There are rlany cases
on the construction of bonds,'where the letter of the conldition has been depafted from, to carry- into effect the intention of the parties.
Btt for the first error, the judgment must be reversed,

hndjudgment entered for the plaintiff in ei-ror, on the de,
murrer.

Judgment reversed, with costs.

.
"ra.ToU,

