SUPREME COURT U. S.
February 17.

DOUGLASS
ANDMANDEVSLISZ

v.
'ALLISTER.

MARSHALL, Ch. J, The error complained of i6,
that the circuit court did not give an opinionon a point

proposed.

'opinion,

The court was certainly bound to give an
if required, upon any point relevant to the

issue.
It appears, from the facts stated, that the cause of
action did not accrue until the 19th of November,
when the negotiation for a compromise was broken off.
A tender of the flour at any time, after the 14th, and
before the 19th, would have been a compliance with
the contract.
As the plaintiff claimed no more than the price of
the flour on the 19th, and as the refusal of the court to
instruct the jury, did not alter the verdict, which was
for the price on that day, and was for the same amount
as if the opinion had been given, there is no error of
wNih the defendants could complain.
Judgment affirmed, with costs.

SIMMS AXB

SIMMS AND WISE v. SLACUM,

W.ISE
,V.

SLACUM.

ERROR to the circuit court of the district of Colum.
bia, in an action of debt brought by Slacum, as assignee
son-rules un- of Charles Turner, sergeant of the court of Hustings of
der the inSoI- 4 lexandria, upon a prison-bounds-bond, in which Simns
I
A discharge
from the 4"r.
vent

act of

Virginia, at- was the principal and Wise the surety.
though obtained isbya dis- is The condition
imi
fraud,
fcau
chargei in due esse Simms, in

of the bond was as follows: "Whereas
jail and custody, by virtue of a writ of
eourve of a ; capias ad satisfaciendum, sued out of the clerk's office of
anduponsuch the court of Hustings, holden in Alexandria, dated the
discharge no 12th day of August, 1800, at the suit of George Slacum,
action can be
sustained up- assignee of Charles Turner, sergeant of the court of Huson thqprison. tings aforesaid, for the sum of 1,285 dollars and 45
touwidebond.

FEBRUARY, 1806.
xents, including all legal costs at the time of the caption aforesaid, having prayed the benefit of the *prisonrules, as laid out and bounded by order of the court of
Hustings aforesaid, and having tendered the above bound
Peter Wise, junior, as surety for the same, agreeable to an
act of the general assembly in that case made and provided.
1 Now, if the said Jesse Simms do well and truly keep
himself within the prison-rules, as laid out and bounded
by the court of Hustings aforesaid, and from thence not
depart, until he shall be dischargedby due course of lav,
or pay the aforesaid sum of 1,285 dollars and 45 cents to
the aforesaid George Slacum, assignee of Charles Turner,
sergeant aforesail, then the above obligation to be void,
or else to remain in full force," &c.
The pleadings were finally brought to this issue, wzoether Simms did departfrom the prisonrules-withoutbeing
,dischargedby due course of law P
At the trial, three bills of exceptions were taken by the
defendants; but the only question decided by this court
arose upon the third ; which stated, that after the execution of the bond, Simms uvas discharged by a warrant
from two justices of the peace, under the authority of the
insolvent act of Virginia ; and that being so discharged,
and not before, he departed out of the rules. The plaintiff
offered evidence to prove sundry acts of fraud committed
by Simms, in order to procure the discharge; whereupon
the counsel for the defendants prayed the opinion of the
court, and their instruction to the jury, that if they should
be of opinion, from the evidence, that frauds were committed individually by Simms, in obtaining his discharge,
but without the participation of the magistrates who
granted it, and without the participation of Wise, the other
defendant, such frauds, so committed by Simms, could
not so far vitiate or avoid the said proceedings under the
insolvent act, and the discharge so obtained by Simms,
as to charge Wise, in this action, for a breach of the
condition of the bond, by reason of Simms having left
the' prison-rules by virtue of such discharge. 1Vhich
instruction, the) court refused to give ; but were of
opinion, and directed the jury, that if they should be of
opinion, from the evidence, that any fraud was committed by Simms alone, in obtaining, or for the purpose of

SIMMS AN*

Wisr
IV.

SLACUM.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
obtaining, the said warrant of discharge, though without
.the concurrence of either of the magistrates, or of Wise,
SL V . in such fraud, it did avoid the discharge so obtained by
%S'oy-.'.S Simms, so as to charge Wise in this acti 6 n for a breach
of the said condition, by reason of Simms' having left the
prisonrules by virtue of such a void discharge. To which
refusal and instruction the defendants excepted.
STUMS AND

Wasa

The act of Assembly of Virginia, 1792, c. 67, concerning the county courts, ยง 15, P. P. 86,* authorises
the county and corporation courts to lay oat, and mark
the "bounds and rides" of their respective prisons ; and
declares, that "every prisoner not committed for treftson
or felony, giving good security to keep within the said
rules, shall have liberty to walk therein, out of the prison,
for the preservation of his or her health, and keeping continually within the said bounds, shall be adjudged in law
a true prisoner."
The act of 1792, c. 79, concerning the escape of pri.

soners, ยง 2, P. P. 119, provides, that if a prisoner, having
given security for, and obtained the liberty of the prisonrules, shall escape and go out of the same, the sheriff
shall immediately apply to a justice of the peace for an
escape-warrant to, retake the prisoner, and give notice
thereof to the creditor, and assign over to the creditor the bond taken for the liberty of the rules, who shall
be obliged to receive the same ; and the creditor may
proceed to take his debtor upon the escape-warrant ; and
if he be retaken and committed to jail, the sureties in the
prison-rules-bond, shall be discharged ; but if the debtor
he not retaken on the warrant, and committed, the sureties are liable to the creditor. And the sheriff is not liable,
unless the sureties were insufficient when taken.
By the 1st section of the act, the escape-warrant must
be upon the oath of the sheriff, or some otbcr credible
person.
The act of 1793, c. 151, for the relief of insolvent
debtors, P. P. 303, authorises two justices of the peace
to discharge insolvent debtors, and provides, that notice
I' AP. is used in this book as a reference to Pleasant& Pace'
edition of the Laws of Virginia, published in 1803. Octavo.

FEBRUAVY, 1806.

303

shall be given to the party at whose suit the prisoner is Slums A.n
WSE
in execution. It declares also, that the warrant of discharge shall be sufficient to indemnify the sheriff against SLAvGU.
any action of escape. And that the prisoner shall not
be again imprisoned upon any judgment obtained previous to his taking the oath, unless by virtue .ofa ca. sa.
issued by order of the court in which the judgment shall
have been rendered.
The estate of the insolvent is vested in the sheriff. But
the creditor may, on scirefacias,have a new ft. fa. to
seize any property which the debtor may afterwards acquire.
6.Lee, for plaintiffs in error. A prisoner in the bounds
is as much in jail as if within the walls of the prison.
The oath of the insolvent debtor was provided as the
guard against fraud ; but the bond is only a substitute for
walls to the prison-bounds. As to the surety, a discharge
by a competent authority is conclusive.
The warrant of discharge is an indemnity to the sheriff,
whether obtained by fraud or not. The act of assembly
does nqt expressly provide, that it shall indemnify the
surety 4s well as the sheriff, but he is within the same
reason.

The body of the debtor cannot be ietaken, unless by
order of the court, on proof of fraud. In the case of fraud
in the debtor alone, the remedy of the creditor is not by
an escape-warrant, but by a new ca. sa. against his person, or a fi.fa. against hid goods.
The sheriff is bound to discharge the prisoner upon keceipt of the warrant ; if he disobeys it he is liable to an
action of false imprisonment; and after obeying it, he
cannot go before a justice of the peace, and swear it was
an escape, so as to obtain an escape-warrant. If he cannot
get an escape-warrant, he cannot assign the prison-rulesbond; for he is, by the act, only authorised to assign it
when an escape has actually happened. The creditor is
not bound to take an assignment; nor can he demand it.
When, therefore, the debtor is discharged by a competent
authority, the obligation of the bond ceases. It isfinctu.
oficio ; the surety is no longer liable for an escape. and is

304
Simms A-D

WisE, .

3UPREME COURT U. S.

as much discharged as if, after an escape, the debtor is
retaken on an escape-warrant, and committed to jail.

V.

.$LACUM.

The act of assembly did not intend that the bond
should give the creditor a new security for his debt, or
to place him in a better situation than he would be if his
debtor were to remain within the stone walls of the jail.
The bond was. intended for the ease and benefit of the
debtor.
If the bond is a security against the fraud of the debtor,
there are no bounds to the responsibility of-the surety.
The words " in due course of law," mean by authority
of law; that is, by a competent legal authority.
Th'e notice required by the act to be given to the creditor, is to enable him to attend and show fraud if he can.
But if the surety is answerable for fraud, it would be
mord for the interest of the creditor not to show the fraud
at that time, but to wait uitil it has had the effect of obtaining a discharge.
If a judgment at law is obtained by fraud, it is still a
valid jttdgment until reversed.
Swann, for defendant in error. In England it is settled, that a discharge under an insolvent act must be free
-from fraud or collusion, and in every respect regular. It
is true that the warrant of discharge is primafacie evidence of a due discharge, and throws the burden of proof
of fraud upon the other party. Esp. N. P. 167, 245.
But fraud, when proved, will "avoid every hind of act."
I Burr. 395. Bright v. Eynou.
In order to guard a creditor against the risk of his
debtor's escape, when allowed the liberty of the prisonrules, the law requires that the debtor should bind himself'
in a penalty, and if he escapes, he is as much liable at
law foi the penalty as his surety is, and the surety is as
much bound as the debtor. The one is bound exactly as
the other is bound. If the penalty is forfeited as to one,
it is forfeited as to the other. Whatever would make
Simms liable upon the bond, would make Wise equally

FEBRUARY, 1806.

305

As.RP
liable. If, then, Simms. had voluntarily escaped, he SxMms
WVxsx
would have been liable to the penalty of his bond. But a
.
discharge obtained by fraud and imposition is, as to him SLA&CU2L
at least, void; otherwise, you permit a man to take Advantage of his own fraud ; for if the discharge is valid, it
puts an end to his obligation upon his bond. A discharge obtained by fraud. is, in substance, as much an escape, as if the prisoner had merely gone off in disguise,
or imposed upon hiajailor by a borrowed dress. But it
is a maxim of law, that no man shall gain an advantage
by his own fraud. If this fraudulent discharge dissolves
the obligation of the bond, Simms gains an advantage by
his own fraud; therefore, the fraudulent discharge cannot
dissolve the obligation of the bond. If th6 obligation of
the bond be not dissolved as to Simms, it is not as to
Wise, for both are equally bound.

But the words of the condition of the bond are, that
Simms shall not depart-theiefrom " until he shall be discharged BY DUE COURSE .OF LAW." A discharge obtained by fraud and imposition is not a discharge in due
course of law; on the contrary, it is aperversion of the
course of law; the law is turned aside from its due course.
Shall Simms be permitted to say, that his discharge,
grounded on falsehood, fraud and imposition, is a discharge in due course of law ? If Simms cannot say it,
Wise canot say it. Wise can avail himself of no defence
at law which would not equally avail Simms.
There is a vast difference between the case of the
sheriff and that of the surety. The sheriff is bound to
obey the warrant. All he has to inquire is, whether the
justices had jurisdiction. He is only the officer of the
law, and bound to execute all lawful precepts. Not so
the surety. He is a volunteer. He undertakes for the
goodfaith of the debtor. He substitutes himself in his
place, to the extent of the penalty.
It is not necessary thatthe sheriff should swear an escape before he can assign the bond. It is true he cannot
oblige the creditor to take the bond, unless an escape has
been sworn to ; but there is nothing in the law which forbids the sheriff to assign the bond, or the creditor to receive it, without such an oath.
VoL II
Rr

SUPREME COURT U. S.
SmIus

February 19.

AND

V.

SL.CUM.

\jority

Ch. J. delivered the opinion of the maof the court.

MARSHALL,

This case depends on the construction of an act of the
legislature of Virginia, which allows the prison-rules to
a debtor whose body is in execution, on his giving bond,
with sufficient security, not to go out of the rules or
bounds of the prison ; that is, while a prisoner. The
condition usually inserted is, not to depart theref'rom till
he shall be discharged by due course of law, or shall pay
the debt. The act further provides, that the prisoner, on
delivering a shedule of his property on oath, to aitribunal
constituted for the purpose, and pursuing certain steps
prescribed in the law, shall be discharged, and all his property shallbe vested in the sheriff, for the benefit of the
creditors at whose suit he is in execution.
In the case at bar, the forms of the law were observed,
and a certificate of discharge obtained, after which the
debtor departed from the rules. Conceiving this discharge to have been obtained by fraud, the creditor
brought a suit upon the bond, and the court instructed
the jury, that if a fraud had been practised by the debtor,
although neither the justices who granted the certificate,
nor the security, partook thereof, yet it avoided the discharge, and left the security liable in this action. To this
opinion the defendants' counsel excepted, and upon that
exception the cause is before this court.
The certificate of discharge may be granted either by
the court sitting in its ordinary character for the transaction ofjudicial business, or by two magistrates who are
constituted by law an extraordinary court for this particular purpose. Whether granted in the one mode or the
other, it is of equal validity. In either case, the judgment of discharge is the judgment of a codrt, and, as
such, is of complete obligation.
The judgments of a court of competent jurisdiction,
although obtained by fraud, have never been considered
as absolutely void ; and therefore, all acts performed tinder them are valid, so far as respects third persons. A

FEBRUARY, 1806.
sheriff who levies an execution under ajudgment fraudu- slums Am
lently obtained, is not a trespasser, nor can the person
who purchases at a sale under such an execution, be com- SLACUZ.
pelled to relinquish the property he has purchased. All
acts performed under such a judgment are valid acts; all
the legal consequences which follow a judgment are, with
respect to third pei-sona, precisely the same in one obtained by fraud, as if it had been obtained fairly.
When the person who has committed the fraud attempts to avail himself of the act, so as to discharge himself from a previously existing obligation,.or to acquire a
benefit, the judgment thus obtaiued is declared void as to
that purpose ; but it may well be doubted, whether a
penalty would be incurred, even by the person committing
the fraud, for an act which thejudgment would sanction.
Thus, if a debtor taken on mesne process escapes, he may
be retaken by the authority of the sheriff, and if not retaken, the sheriff may be liable for an escape ; but if he
fraudulently obtains audgment in his favour, in consequence of which he goes-at large, it has never teen imagined that the sheriff could-retake him on suspicion that
the judgment was fraudulent, or be liable for an escape on
the proof of such fraud.
Thus too, where, as in Virginia, an injunction has been
adjudged to discharge the body from confinement, if a
debtor in execution, by false allegations, obtains an injunction whereby his body is discharged from prison, or
from the rules, it ha" never been conjectured that the injunction thus awarded was void, and the acts p*rformed
under it were to be considered as if the injunction had not
existed. In that case, it would not be alleged that there
was an escape, and that the security to the bond for keeping the rules was liable for the debt, because the discharge
was fraudulently obtained; but the discharge would have
all its legal effects, in like manner as if no imposition had
been practised on the judge by whom it was granted.
The judgment rendered in his favour may not shield
the fraudulent debtor from an original claim, but it is
believed that no case can be adduced, where an act, which
is the legal consequence of a judgment, has in itself created a new responsibility, even with respect to the party

SUPREME COURT U. S.
Sxums A 'D himself, much less with respect to third persons, who do
WISE
not participate in the fraud.
-V*
SLACUM.
\It

would seem, then, upon general principles, that a
debtor who has departed from the prison-rules under the
authority of a judgment of discharge, granted in due form
by a competent tribunal, has not committed an escape
even to charge himself, much less a third person. Such
a discharge might not be permitted to protect him from
the original debt, even if the case had not been particularly provided for by statute ; but the act of departing from
the rules, after being thus discharged, could not charge
him with a new responsibility to which he was not before
.liable, much less will it impose on his security a liability
for the debt. Departing from the rules, after being discharged in due course of law, is not a breach of the condition of his bond.
-This opinion receives great additional strength from
those arguments, drawn from the objects and pyovisions
of the act, which have been forcibly urged from the
bar.
The objects of the act unquestionably are, not to increase the security of the creditor, but to relieve the debtor from close imprisonment in the confined jails of the
country, and to consult his health, by giving him the benefit of fresh air. But as this indulgence would furnish
the means of escapinj from the custody of the officer, and
thereby deprive the creditor of his person, it was thought
necessary to guard against the danger which the indulgcnce itself created, not to guard against dangers totally
unconnected with this indulgence. Security, therefore,
ought, in reason, to be required against a departure from
the rules without a lawful authority so to do, because the
means of such departure were furnished by being allowed
the use of the rules ; but security against a fraud in obtaining such authority need not be required, because the
means of practising that fraud are not facilitated by
granting the rules. They may be used by a debtor in
closejail, as successfully as by a debtor admitted to the
rules.
It is also a material circumstance in the construction of
he act, that ample provision is made for the very case.

FEBRUARY,

1806.

309

A new capias may be awvarded to take the person of the Simis AND
WISn
debtor. This remedy is not allowed in the case of an escape ; and it is strong evidence that the legislature did SLACUM.
not contemplate a departure from the rules, under a cer-tificate issued by proper authority, as an escape ; that the
remedy given the creditor is competent to a redress of the
injury, replaces him in the situation in which he was before it was committed, aind is not founded on the idea that
there has been an escape.
The argument founded on the provisions respecting
the property of the debtor, also bear strongly on the case.
They confirm the opinion, that a departure from the rules,
under a certificate of discharge grantedby a proper tribunal, ought not to be considered as an escape. So, too, does
that provipion of the act 'which requires notice to the
creditor and not to the security.
Without reviewing the various additional arguments
-which have been suggested at the bar, the co'irt is of
opinion, that upon general principles, strengthened by a
particular consideration of the act itself, a departure from
the rules under such an authority as is stated in the proceedings, is not an escape which can charge the security in
the bond for keeping the prison-rules, although that authority was obtained by a fraudulent representation on the
part of the debtor, neither the magistrates nor the security having participated in that fraud;
There is error, therefore, in the instruction given to
the jury, as stated in the third bill of exceptions, for which
the judgment is to be reversed, and the cause remanded
for further trial.
Judgment reversed.
PATERSON, J. As to the third exception, which embraces the main point in the cause, my opinion differs
from the opinion of the majority of the court, and accords
with the direction given by the court below. The condition of the bond is, "that Simms do well and truly keep
himself within the prison-rules, and thence not to depart
until he shall be discharged by due course of law, or pay
the sum of 1,285 dollars and 45 cents, to George Slacum,

SUPREME COURT U. S.
Szzlms
Mx
WIsE
V.
SLACUM.

assignee," &c. The act that will not exonerate the principal, will not exonerate the surety, from the obligation
which they have entered into ; for the surety stands on
same floor as the principal, and assumes the like clfaracter of responsibility, in regard to the terms specified
in the condition of the bond. The benefit of the act of
insolvency, if obtained by fraud or perjury on the part of
Simms, will be unavailing, nnd his going beyond the limits
of the prison, in consequence or under colour of a discharge, thus procuifed, will be an invalid and unwarrantable departure. Fraud infects the decision ; and the legal principle is, that the fraudulent person shall not be suffered to protect himself by his own fraudulent act. If he
should, then a judgment, which is laid in fraud, will, as
in the present case, operate to the extinction of a legal,
pre-existing obligation or contract. But a discharge,
fraudulently obtained, is of no virtue-of no operation ;
and is, in truth and in law, no discharge ; it has neither
legal effect, nor even legal existence as to the party himself, and the surety, who stands in his shoes. If the judgment be of no avail as to the principal, it will be of no
avail as to the surety ; it cannot be ineffectual as to the
The discharge
one, and operative as to the other.
must be legal to be valid, and to exonerate the surety from
the special condition of the bond. The judgment itself is
a fraud on the law ; and I can discern no difference be,tween the debtor's going beyond the prison-bounds voluntarily, or under colour of a judgment so obtained; except, that the latter is a case of deeper die, and less excusable in a legal and moral view than the former.

Sthe

Although Simms is liable to be imprisoned by virtue
of a new process, yet lie may have gone out of the jurisdiction of the court ; or if not, Slacum will be deprived
of the benefit of the bond which Simms and Wise executed.
The sheriff stands on different ground ; for he is exonerated from all liability, by an express provision in the
statute. Besides, if the justices have jurisdiction of the
subject, and should not exceed their jurisdiction, it is not
incumbent on the sheriff to examine into the regularity,
fairness, and validity of their proceedings and judgment ;
he looks at the irstrument of discharge, which, emanating

FEBRUARY, 1806.

311

from a competent authority, it is his duty to obey. But
though the discharge may excuse the sheriff, as an officer
of the court, it will not excuse the party, nor his surety.

As to them, it is inoperative, and of no legal efficacy.

STUNs

AND

WVsS
VF.

SLACUN.

-...-.

HARRIS v. JOHNSTON.
V-.

Jo i uNSTO X.

ERROR to the circuit court of the district of Columbia, sitting at Alexandria, in an action of assmp-

An action
aobe
maintained,

sit, for goods sold and delivered, and money had and on an original
received,

contract for
sold
goods
and deliver.

by a per.
The defendant pleaded the general issue, and upon ed,
son
ev
has
the trial took two bills of exceptions,
received a
note as condiThe first stated, that this action was commenced on tionaf
pay.
the 10th of July, 1801, and that on the trial the plain- ment, and has
tiff offered evidence of the sale and delivery of goods, passed away
note.
that
of parto the amount of 2,149 dollars and 33 cents.
A bill
cels delivered

That the defendant offered in evidence a bill of par- byl, stating
ag
goods
and in the hand- the
eels of the same goods, rendered by
ofnot
D)
and ,is
writing of the plaintiff, Johnston, amounting to 644. bought
16s. Virginia currency, containing a particular accoupt conclusive
of rum and sugar, beginning with these words : "113r.eridence aalst,
Pr') & 7ohnston," at the
goods that
Theophius Harris, bought of Dunlap
the foot of which bill was the following receipt, signed were thejoint
by the plaintiff: "Received, Messrs. Clingman and property of 2
butthe
Magaw's note for the above sum, payable to the order adr.
real circummay
stances
Towers
John
by
of Yohn Towers, or order, indorsed
and Theophilus Harris, payable the 2d April, 1798, be explained
when paid, received in full ;" which bill was rendered by parol.

If partofthi

to the defendant by the plaintiff, at the time of the sale goods were
and delivery,

the sole pro.

perty of 1),

roe
due the resi.
The defendant further offered evidence to prove, mid'the

that the note in that receipt mentioned, was delivered property ofr,
to the defendant with the blank indorsement of Tow- and if I had
ers, and by the defendant indorsed in blank to the plain-

uthorityfrom

D, to sellae
tiff, at the time of the sale and delivery of the goods, part,
_rmay

