FEBRUARY,

1806.

357
MA. I.
Co.
or AFAZ
DRI&.

THE MARINE INSURANCE COMPANY OF
-ALEXANDPIA v. JOHN AND JAMES H.
TUCKER.

V.
J. A.:D

CoERROR to the circuit court, of the district of
lumbia.

J. H.

Tucieza.

If a vessel
be insured
i at and from

Xingston, in
Jamaica, to

"Alexandria,"
This was an action of covenant, by John and James
and take
1st,
Sept.
atina
dated
.cargo
insurance,
of
policy
a
H. Tucker, on
1801, upon the sloop Eliza, at and from KingSston, in Kingston, far
7anaica, to Alexandria, in

irginia.

The only parties tothis suitare, the United States and the iformant, as libellants, and T. J. Norman, as claimant of the ship.
I think it peculiarly necessary to confine my opinion to the state
of facts, and the questions of law applying to the parties in court,
because it is not necessary-for me to decide, whether the assignees
of A. Brrown are clothed with any of the essential characters of a
fair purchaser, or-have, so far as relates to the property, any privilege ok exemption which Brown himself would not have had ; and
the question de bona fide emptoris, does arise dircctly upon captain
Normaian's 'claim, and wil determine this case. To that I shall,
therefore, immediately proceed..

Baltimoreand
Alexandria,
and sails with
intent to go
irst to Bald-more, and
from thence
to Alexandria, and be.
fore she arrives at the
didhn
o
ture I ; it is a
case ofin.
tended devia-

tion only, ad

No seizure was made, or libel filed against the ship, until after
Brown's bankruptcy, and a sale by his assignees to tie claimant,
who is admitted to be an innocent purchaser for a valuable consideration ; rfor until after he had obtained a new register in his own
name, upon that purchase.

not o rn in.
ceprion of the
voyage insurd. it dependi upon
the particul2r
Itis argued by the libellants' counsel, that Brown was not com- circunstanpetent to pass any property to his assignees, nor they to an/ pur- ces of the
-chaser under them, as the forfeiture relates back tolvest thie pro- case, wheperty from the time of the fale oath, and that the claim of' the li-ther, if the
vessel be cap.
bellants is paramount to that of the claimant,

tured and re-.

The defendant's counsel argue in support of his claim, that the
relation back to the time of the offence, is never admitted to overreach rights intermediately acquired by third persons.
whcn the
In commenting upon the case from 1 D. and E. 2.2,
the
strongly
very
pressed
argument'was first opened, Mr.:Mrtin
dictum of Lord Kenyon, that if the relation back to the time of an
offence was admitted as to the property, it would, in every case,
equally relate to the profits intermediately acquired. If the reason
ssigned' was true, it certainly furnished one of the strongest cases

captured, the
loss shall be
deemed tctat
or partial.

SUPREMIE COURT U. S.
IA. I.q. Co.
or ALEXANDRXA

V.
J. AN

The defendants pleaded, Ist. That the vessel never
sailed on the voyage insured, and was not prosecuting
the voyage insured, at the time of the capture ; and, 2d.

J. H.

TucK ER.

~ for applying

the argument ab inconvenienti, and as such Il was forcibly
struck with it when mentioned.'
The manner in which Lord Kenyon is reported to have made this
observation plainly shows it to be the declaration of a sudden im.
pression, and which, though correct as applied to some special cases,
is not so in the latitude reported, either at common law, the civil law,
or in equity supported by policy.
1. At common law, even as to the guilty party; no attainder whatsoever has relation, as to the mesne profits of land, but only fDom
the time of the attainder. 3 .Bac.272. Co. Lit. 290. (b.) 118. (a.)

2. By the cii law, and the rules of equity adopted from, that'
rode, a subsequent possessor is not only, not in a worse situation
than those from whom he derives his possession, but even in cases
where the original possessor might be bound to restore profit, a
bonafide possessor is exempt from any such obligation ; as in the
case of a bonafide purchaser. Bonafide emptor non dubie percipiendo
frutus etain cx re aliena, interim suos faciat, non tantum €ol q idii.
gentia et opera ejus proeniunt, sed omnes ; qmia quod adfruetus attinct
loco domini est. Zouch 2. .7. C. 213.
3. It would not be equitable or just in the abstract, to permit a
legal owner to lay by, to avail himself of the ignorance of an inn6cent holder. And the ,same considerations of policy, which in
England permit the offender and his family to enjoy the profits of
lands forfeited for treason, which is a strong and acknowledged
ease of relation to the offence, least the land should be uncultivat.
ed, and the public interest thereby suffer, applies conclusively to
every case where it may be doubtful whether the relation is to the
offence, or onlyto the time of conviction.
As thisreason aainst relation does not appear to have the force
it carried at firit vxqw, wve'must have recourse,
1st. To the principle$ of decision in analogous cases ; in their
application; always having regard, (as was justly argued by Mr.
Harper,'on the motion to produce Brown's examination before the
commissioners) " that a relation back shall never be admitted to injure the rights of thirdpersons, nor toprotect or fAvour wrog.' And
-2d. To the statute under which the forfeiture
is claimed in thi's
cause.
k
'The adjudged cases 6n this euject, are sig classes of offences,
which incur a forfeiture of real estate ; 2-B. C. 267, aid seventeen
which produce a forfeiture of personal property; 2 B. C. 421. In
this numerous classification, the principle which governs each
description of cases. does not materidllydifer, I have, therefore,
telected only,

F fBRUARY, 1806.
A general performancetof the covenants contained in the
policy; upon which pleas the issues were joined, and
verdict and judgment for a total loss.

MA. I.
Co.
o, ALEXA,'Dl

J.
1st. The cases of outlawry, and attainder of cris
illustrative of these cases)

;t and, (as

2d. Tfraived goodr.
3d. Relation of executions at common law, and since the statute
of Charles, and,
4th. (As involving the general doctrine ofthis case, and to explain
the case of Robert,v. Withered, cited by Mr. Harper, from 5 Mod.
193. Salk. 223.) A case of villainage which governed that decision.
1. .ttait

der, or conviction of crimes, and outlavry.

Ofthis description there are two classes, which are adjudged to
have relation to the-time of the offence 'committed, and overreach
all intermediate alienationst--treamon and felo de ze. The case of
treason, in which the forfeiture as to land relates to the time of the
offence committed, depends upon feudal principles. As the land
could not be aliened by the tenant voluntarily, it would be preposterous to adinit that to be done, through the medium of a crime,
which could not be done by a lawful act; and the power to sell, intioduced by subsequent statutes, is construed as applying only to
lawful alienations. The reason -ssigned in some books, that it
shall relate to the offence, " because the indictnent contains the
year' and day when it was done," is by no means true or satisfactory, since that would' apply equally to personal property, which,
the same books admit, is only aflected from the time of the conviction ; and the time charged is traversable, even in the case ofland,
by third persons claiming an interest therein, 5 Bac. 228. H. H. P.
C. 261, 262. 3 Ba. 271. Plow. 488. 8 Co. 170. H. H. P. C. 264, 270.
2 Inst. 230.
It is a proposition universally trAe, that the forfeiture, upon an
attainder of treason, relates but to the conviction as to chattels;
unless the case of the offender killed in resisting, or flight, form an
exception, -which may well be doubted. Indeed, says Lord Coke,
it hath always been holden, that any one indicted of treason or.felony, may, bonajide, sell any of his chattels, real or personal, 3
.&ac. 271, Perk. M 8 Rep. 171. Skinter, 357, Yones v. dAhhurit. 4 CoM..
Dig. Forfeiture, . 4. 2 inst. 48.
In the case of afelo de' ze, it is stated, that the forfeiture has
relation to the time of the mortal wound given, so that all intermediate alienations are avoided, 3 Bac. 272. This is the only case I
have ever discovered, in-which the doctrine of relation has been so
far extended. If the principle of that determination is gund, and
it is applicable to other cases, it is a drag.net indeed. Itmay, pero'
bps, most correctly he copsidered as a case sui Sereriz, and neither

AND J. I.

Tuca: an.

SUPREMt COURT U. S.
MA. IN. Cd.
or ALEXAN-

At the trial the defendants took three bills of cx-

ceptiom.

DRIA
V.

.

ADJ

for the reasons which "areassigned to maintain it, nor the doctrine
it stilportr, applicable to other cases.
Those who are curious on this subject, will be amused -with the.
argument of Chief Justice Dyer, on the drowning of Sir J. Hales,
and will, probably, be as much convinced by the reasoning of the
ChiefJustice, as by the logic of the grave-digger in Hamlet, to
prove that the drowning of Ophelia was se defendendo. Plow. 262.
Outlawry subjects the party to forfeitures, which are xvcll known
to depend upon the natrre ofthe suit on which they are prosecutod,
Without inquiring when an offide is necessary, or may be dispensgd'
with by the crown, I shall mention one case, where, even after'an
outlawry, (of' which purchasers mig.ht- always have notice, as it is
a matter of record) a fair purchaser was protected, even against
the crown. It, is from Hardrcis, 101, The dttorney-Generalv. Freeinan. A. was outlawed, and afterwards made a lease of his lands,
and afterwards,'these lands, among others, were found by inquisition ; and this case was pleaded in bar, to bind the king before'tho
inquisition. The court held that a lease, or other estate made by
the party after outlawry, and before an inquisition taken, will pro.
vent the kin 's title, if it be made bonafide, and upon good consilde.
ration ; hut if it be in trust for the party only, it will not be a bar;
but that no conveyance wbatsoevqr, made after the inquisition,
will take away or discharge the kings .title, 5 Bac. 564. Salk. 395.
Carth. 442.
These cases are strong to show the general protection afrordMd
by law to fair purchasers, even Where the forfeiture is it? ren, and
the offender is not actually divested of his possession, the necessity
of which is directly affirmed in the second description of cases to
which I have referred, viz.
2. Waived goodi.
" As to waived goods, these belong to tha king, and are in him
without any office, for the property is in nobody. They may belong
in like manner to the lord of the mandr by grant, but not byprescription," 5 Bac. 517. 5 Co. -109.
The general principle of these cases is conformable to that quoted
by Mr. Harper fiom 12 Mod. 92, to show, that an offence like that
charged a~ainst Brown, divested the property out of him, and left
it, as it were, in abeyance until suit, which vested the property by
relation from the act of forfeiture.
A position of greater comprehension, or which, as a general one,
should embrace the libellants' case, could scarcely be imagined.
Waived goods are in the king without office,. that is, even without
seizure, the purpose of which, as to legal title to the .king, is answered by the office; the property is, as it were, in abeyante; yet
this case, so completely applicable in its general principles, contains
the strongest possible illustration of the doctrine, that a title by

FEBRUARY, 1806.

361

'MA. It. Co.

The 1st presents the following case:
The execution of the policy was admitted.

or ALzx.tt-

The vessel

was of the value insured, and belonged to the plaintiffs, J.
forfeiture, in the case of a personal chattel, begins from suit, eizure, or conviction; and has no relationback; for "the owner may at
any time retake the goods -aived, if they are not seized by the
king, orthe lord of the manor ; for the lord'sproperty begins from the
seizure," 5 Bac. 517. Kitcen, 82.
This case is conclusive against Mr. Hollingsworth's argumeht,
that this question is a question of property only, since it proves that
property only begins from the seizure, which cannot be lawfully1madc
to affect an intermediately vested right of a third person.
-3. The relation of executions at common law, and since the statut--considering this case as one between the government and the
claimant, from analfogy to cases of the King's precedency in execution.,
By the statute of 33 H. 8, c. 9. it is enacted, that if any suit be.
commenced or taken-or any process awarded for the recovery of
an/ of the King's debts, then the same suit, or procqss, shall be proferred before any person or persons.
And as to the King's execution of goods, the same relates to the
time of awarding thereof, which is the teste of the writ; as it was
in the case 6f a common person at common law. 2. Bae..734.
Now to apply this doctrine to the case before the court, and even
admitting to this libel the same extent of relation as is admitted at
common law upon the King's execution against pem onal chattels,
and as to real and personal by the above recitastantite, wilitoverreach the sale to Captain Norman 1
It is*generally agreed that an execution, executed though puterior
to the time to which the King's extent relates, bars the King's priority-and in the case of Lechmere -o. Thorovgoed, 3 Mod. 236.
Cob. 123, it was holden that if the King's extent be sued out pos.
terior t6 a jidgment recovered by the subject, and writ of execution
not executed, the King shal
thpreon deliveredto the sheiifl ofthough
the goo is canged by the .uYis
be postponed-for the property
execution.

-

Here then we advalice one step farther in restricting the doctrino
of relation, as it applies to individual interests. It is presumed that
the principles of relation upon executiqns since the statute, art too
familiar to require any reference to adjudged cases.
-

The case of Roberts & Withered, as reported by Salkeld, and
copied by Bacon, is in these words: "By the act ol navigation, 12
Car. % cap. 18, certain goods are prohibited to be imported here,
under pain of forfeiting them, one part to the King, another to him
or them that will in.form, seize, or nue for the same.
3. A
VoL I.L

V.
AND J, IL
TucKEL

SUPREME COURT U. S.
HA.

-RoA

IN.

Co.

(the defendants in error) who were British subjects, resident at Alexandria. 'The vessel was navigated under a

.XAN-

'.'

British register, and had sailed from Alexandria for

J- AND J. ff.

Tuciita.

It was adjudged that in this case the subject may bring detnue
for such goods; as the lord may have replevin for the goods of his
villain distrained; for the bringing of the action vest, a property in the
plaintiff When this case was first referred to by Mr. Harper, I considered, as I believe he 'and the other counsel did, that it came
nearer to the case before the court, than any which occurred intheir
researches. On a careful examination of that ease, I now think it
will be found, not to bear On the point now to lie decided.
In the first case it may be observed, that the case as reported does,
not afford any ground to presume that any other person than he who
unlawfully imported the goods was interested in that, suit; but on
the contrary it is presumable that it was a suit against the ori sal
inporter. In that case, the question ofrelation could not have arisen,
since it was utterly unimportant to the plaintifi'and to the defendant, whether the plaintiff recovered by a title which related to'his
writ, or to the time of the importation. And further it is to be re.
marked, that the question in that case seems to have bedn ouly.upon
the form of action. It was dtnue which is founded on procrty /
that that case decides is, that in a case of specjflc forfeiture,
mid all
the bringing of a suit vests a property inthe plaintifi" sufficient .to
sustain that form of action; for the case to which it is likenqd, ahd
on vihich the decision rests, is express to show it ddes not relate to
the inttre stof others, for says the book, "in this case the subject
may bring detinue for such'goods-as the lord mayhave replcvin for
the goods of his villain,"
which case, as I will show, goes not only
to the form of action, but to the full lengthof this base. I will read
that case. [Vidd Littleton, section 177, with'Lord Coei comment
thereon.] So in this case the ship Ivas liable to forfeiture and might
have been spccifically recovered fromBr' wn by the government, Or
any prosecutor under its laws, before abonafide alienation by him;
but if they have waited until such alienation by him; and a third
person hfs honestly bought and paid for the property, they may be
answered in the language of Littlet6n, 'that it shall'be adjudgd
their folly that they did not enter when the offender was in possession ;" for according- to, Lord Coke, before suh-seizure they had
neitherjus in re, nor jus ad remn, but only a right te ste, which I under.
stood to be Lord Coke's possibility above referred'to. 'From all these
cases and principles I infer that the relation of the,forfeiture itthe
time of the offence, in cases of treason and felony, especially by self.
murder, is peculiar to those cases; that in cases of forfeitue of
chattels, the relation is only to the time of coicton-thatthe fpr.
felture to which a party is subjected, by statute, of a personal chat.
thl, must be construed with relation to the continuance of hitsowershi
in th'at chattel at the time of coilviction ; and cannot be prosecuted
inrem to affect a bonafide purchaser for a valuable consideration,
and this construction I think'iot only warranted by the statute on
"which this suit is founded, and which speaks of a recovery of the
value of 'the ship, but also by sdund legal principles. The'
vahlp, can only berecovered against the actual 6ffendcr,-and neer
from a bona fide holder; for againstv the offender' it is he valu*

FEBRUARY, 1806.
Kingston, in June, 1801, with a cargo, consigned to MA. In2. Co.

Bryan, & Co. in Jamaica, who were instructed, by a
letter from the plaintiffs, to sell the vessel and remit the
at the time ofthe offence; even against a maItfde holder itis only
of the thing, be the value of that thing greateror les. If any holder
bona fide was liable because of his possession, he would not be the
less so after he had parted with his possession ; but he might be
made answerable'for the value of the thing in the same marmer as
if the possession continue with him - but even where he was not
strictly a bona fide holder, the remedy is lost if his possessibn. is
gone. And it is but just, when two remedies are given to puxish an
offence, one of which shows a plain intent of the legislature, that it
shall follow the offender personally, or in his personal interests, so
to construe the other remedies as not to permitthem to be extended
-to involve others who are wholly. innocent, in the same degree of
punlhment as would attach to the responsible offender.

The argument, that Brown, by his false-swearing, subjected the
.p to forfeiture defacto, and that no alienation by him could vest a
better title in the vendee than the vendor possessed; and that as he
held the ship subject to forfeiture, so any holder under him, or
through him, must take subject to that forfeiture, is certainly astronX
one.
The general prineiple is undoubtedly true, that a derivative title
cannot be better than the original from which it is derived; but it
is only true as ageneralprinciple Z'andthe exceptions to its operation
,are thost op which I rely to warrant my construction of the statute
in ppoviding for a recovery of the value of the ship, as well as to show
that in some instances he who has no title at all may yet transfer a
valid one to personal chattels.
Robbery can give no title-to goods, and upon conviction, there is
a.judgmentof restitution, according to the statute, -whichfixes the
remedy against any phrson in possession at the time of the corniction ; and this is by the express provision of positive law. Yet the
owner of goods stolen, who has prosecuted the thief to conviction,
cannot recover the value of his goods from a person who has 1purchased and sold them again, even with notice of the theft, be/ore
coquieeion. And if the owner of goods loses them by a fraud, and
not afelony, and afterwards convicts theoffender, he is not entitled
to restitution, or to retain tlem against a person-e. g. a pawnbroker, who has fairl acquired v new right 6f property in them.
*If, therefore, he -whohath no title at all, may in some cases,
nevertheless, give a legal right a fortiori he who holds by a title
defensible only within a limited time, (for by the statute of limita'tion, the prosecution, in caseslike the present, must be within three
years) may transfer a good title to a fair pirchaser for a .aluable
conideration.
The language of Blackstone is very emphatic: "the zight of
proprietors of personal chattels is preserved from being divested,
only so far as is consistent with that other necessary policy, -that

0

ALX Azc-

J.

ArD J. H.
Tucrmv.

V.

364

SUPREME COURT U. S.

MA. Ix. Co. proceeds. The vessel was commanded, ostensibly, by
oF ALEXAN- Boaz Bell, but really, by Eli R. Patton, who also went
* DRIA.

.

as supercago, with orders to sell the vessel at any rate ;
v.
J.H.

ARD

TUCKER.

bona fide, in a fair, open, and regular manner, should
'Jpurchasers
"not be, afterwards, put to difficulties by reason of the previous
*
knavery of the seller."
The statute provides, that in case of a wilful false oath in any of
the matters required, previous to the obtaining of the registry,
"there shall be a forfeiture of the ship or vessel, together with her
tackle, apparel and furniture, in respect to which, the same shall
have been made, or the value thereof to be recovered," &c.
It seems to me, to be the plain and just construction of this sta.
tute, that the wilful false swearing does not ex directo produce a
Tbrfeiture of the ship. The forfbiture is alternative, either of tho
ship, or the value of the ship, at the election ,'fthe government or
persons suing ; but not of both the ship and the value.
If the government had recovered the value from Brown, there
would have been an end of proceeding against the ship. And if the
oflnce charged against Brown, only produces a specific forfeiture
by a subjequentelcction, the argument is cogent, that the relation
consequent upon that election, should be restricted by the general
rule, that it shall not overreach an antecedent equity ; and conclusive, that Brown's title was not forfeited defacto, but forfeitable only,
and, therefore, within the principlesof the cases of villainage, and
waived goods, before relied on by me, and expressly by Bilackstone,
2 6om. 421.
Further, the forfeiture is of the ship or the value. I have con.
strued this clause somewhat differently from all the counsel, and
though this circumstance produces doubtr of its correctness, yet
as it has weight with me, and minds of less comprehension may
sometimes embrace truths, which may escape superior understand.
ings, I think it my duty to mention it. It is this.. That the ship is
not liable to forfeiture in the hands of any holder, other than the
persons false-swearing, in any case but where such holder would
be liable to a suit for the value.
The words, that there shall be a forfeiture of the ship, &c. or
of the value thereof, to be recovered, with the costs of suit, of
theperson by whom such oath or affirmation shall have been made,
plainly show the intent of the legislature, t'hat the penalty and pun.
ishment should attach to the ofibnder only. " To be recovered of
the person," both grammatically and legally relate to the object to be
recovered, to wit, the ship, or the value thereof; and to th. person
from -whoa, and from whom only, the one or the other is to be re.
covered.
The 'guilt of false-swearing forfeits only such interests as the
offender possessed; for by the express provision of the 16th section of this staiute, the rights of an innocent and unoffending owner
are exempt from forfeiture; and the words of the statute whiph

FEBRUARY, 1806.
%butif not sold, to return to Alexandria, with the pro- MA. I.". Co.
ceeds of the outward cargo. Bryan, & Co. used their or ALX x--

best endeavours to sell the vessel, but without effect, and

V.
J:

connect the recovery with the forfeiture in this case, excche the
idea of any recovery from an innocent holder. .Expremio uniuc est
excluzio alterius.

If the ship is forfeited by the sole act of the false-swearing, then
she is equally forfeited, notwithstanding there may have been fifty
fair transfers in public market. Every particular sale would be a
particular conversion, and every one through whose hands she may
have passed, might be sued for the value of the price, but the statute
says, that the value shall only be recovered of the oflrender himself.
A party having fairly obtained and fairly lost, or departed with his
possession, would not, in such case, Ie liable for the thing or its
value. 3 Con.. Dig. 359. 2 T. R. 750. If not liable when his possession has honestly ceased, neither can he be made so when it
honestly continues, since his own act cannot vary his responsibility.
Does reason or policy require a different construction ?
The government prohibits an act under a penalty against the party
offending. They say, We, for this, forfeit the thing in respect to
-which you have sworn falsely, if it continues in existence, and is
yours; but if lost, or destroyed, or other persons innocently acquire new rights in that thing, your guilt shall still be punished;
if annihilated, if sold, pay the value ; if you have fraudulently impaired the thing, pay the value. The one or the other shall be
recovered of you, ofyou the guilty party. But this prohibition contains no threat of punishment against an innocent holder.
No inconvenience ariseg from this construction. A purchaser
can only look to the face of the documents, to the records of title
which the law requires for this species of property. The knowledge of the cause of forfeiture rests generally in the bosom of the
offender; and the law can never require of a purchaser to examine

into the secrets of the heart.

It is more the interest and policy of government to increase ;is
wealth and strength by the employment of its ships in trade and
commerce, than to augment its revenues by fprfeitures. It therefore wisely protects the interests offair ship-holders from forfeiture
for the crimes of others, while it carefully provides for the punishment of frauduent contraventions of its laws. Protection is not, by
this construction, afforded to guilt or fraud ; it is only a shield for
innocence.
The remedy remains, as it ought, against him ho 1;ommitted the
offence. Government cannot be deprived of its forfeiture by any
fraudulent alienation. Such a sale would be void. Skinner, 357,
:.ones v. dzhhurt. 3 Co. Twine' case. 2 B.L Corm 421.
The pos'ession is legally, and to effectuate the statutor7 provision, still in the vendor. Indeed, all the reasoning on this sub-

AND J. H.
Tucr~zu.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
MA.

IC. Co. could get no offer for her, either before or after she sailed
from Kingston. Having taken in ten tierces of coffee, ttqe
.aI.
property of the plaintiffs, to be delivered at Alexandria,

or ALEX,,-

j.3Ax
H. she cleared out at the custom-house, in Kingston, on the
10th of August, 1801, for the port of Alexandria, with
to sail, on that day, with convoy then lying
\intention
at Port Royal, but which convoy did not sail until the
17th.
.

TucaKa.

While waiting for convoy, freight was oflered to Baltimore, and the master, having obtained a permit, and
made a port entry, discharged his ballast, and took on
board twentyiogsheads and ten tierces of sugar, for that
port, and signed bills of lading accordingly ; but this
caused no delay as to the time of his sailing, as he
waited for convoy-; it being known that several Spanish
cruisers were hovering on the coast of Jamaica. On
the 17th she sailed for Baltimore, with intention to go
first to Baltimore, and from thence to Alexaodria.. On
the 22d, whilst sailing, in the usual course, from Kingston to Baltimore, and Alexandria, she.was captured, by a
Spanish vessel, as Rrize, and all her men were taken out
by the Spaniards, excepting Bell and one other. In less
than three days she was recaptured by a British sloop of
war, and carried back to Kingston on the 26th of August, where she was libelled for salvage.
iect is contained in two axioms of the civil law, to which this court
may be allowed to refer. In rem actlione tenetur qu; dolo desit
poseidere. Zouch, Elem. 197. Zt aliquando, quod fieri non debet,
factum valet; firmum etprobum quod ait bonafide, improbaturautcm
quod ,it nala fide eel dole. Zouch, Elem. 41.
If a contrary construction prevails, government may have greater
security for a few speciSc penalties ; but it is at the expcn9b of the

interests of commerce,. and the security of all ship-holders.
I do therefore order and decree, that the libel in this case filed
shall stand dismissed, and that the ship, &c. be rcstorcd to the
claimant.
But as the case involved questions of great difficulty, upon which

eminent counsel have differed in opinion, and judges may differ,
and it was proper, in every view of the case,, to put those questions
in a course of legal adjudication, I shall certify probablo cause of

seizure, and decree restitution, without coqts,

FEBRUARY, 1SOG.

36r

Therate of salvage, in cases of recapture, is fixed by MA. Ir. C
British statutes, and does, not exceed.one-eighth of the or ALtXAXV.
value, at the port of adjudication.
J. A I . EL
Bryan, and Co, as agents of Patton, put in a claim in Tuctrv.
ibehalfof the underwriters; alleging that the vessel had
been abandoned to them.
The vice-admiralty court decreed restoration, on payment of one-eighth for salvage, and full costs ; and directed the vessel to be sold, to ascertal the true value, unless
it couldbe otherWise agreed upon.
The claimant used no endeavours to agree with the
captors, as to the true value of the vessel, and cargo,
otherwise than by a sale ; and, on the 1st of October,
she was sold for 915 dollars, and the ten tierces of coffee
were purchased by Patton, for the plaintiffs, at the price
of 1,00 dollirs. The costs, sharges, and commissions,
amounted to 909 dollars, and the salvage to 239 dollars. . The agents of the plaintiffs were content, and
satisfied with the mode of ascertaining the value by
*sale; and did not apply for an appointment of appraisers
to ascertain the value.
Or the 24th of September, IS01, when the abandonment of the vessel was made, by Bell and Patton, she
was safe in the harbour of Kingston, but liable for sal,
vage ; and the value of the tea tierces of coffee, was
suficient to pay the salvage, and all costs and charges.
The register was lost by the capture and recapture,
and has never been foind. The plaintiffs could not, according to the laws of Great Briiaia, obtain anew British register, while they -continued tW reside out of the
British dominions.
Baltimore is not in the direct course from Kingston
to Alexandria, after a vessel has entered the Chesapeake
Bay.
. The plaintiffs received information of the capture, and
-recapture, at the same time, in a letter froifi Bryan,
& Co. dated 25th of September, 1801, which also mentions -the sale; but it did not appear at what time the

368

SUPREME COURT U. S.

MA. hr. Co. plaintiffs received ihat letter. On tle 26th of Novemor AL"xAN- her, they offered to abandon the vessel to the underwri-

'V.

ters, who refused the offer. Upon this state of facts, the
. H. defcndinits moved the court, to instruct the jury, not to
TucKcm.
find a verdict for a total, but, at most, for a partial loss,
Swhich instruction 'the court refused to give, and the defendants took their bill of exceptibns.

J. ANxD

The second bill of exceptions, did not vary the material facts above stated, but alleged that the vessel sailed
from Kingston, with an intention of going to Alexandria, but-, also, with an intention of touching first at
Baltimore, and there delivering part of her carpo, and
from thence to Alexandria. That while prosecuting her
voyage, with that intent, and while in the direct course,
both'to Baltimore and.Alexandrili, and before she arrived
at the dividing point, between Baltimore and Ahxandria,
she was captured, &c. Whereupon, the plaintiffs prayed
the court to instruct the.jury, that there was no deviation
at the time of the capture, and.that the voyage insured,
was actually commenced ; which instruction the court
gave as prayed, and the defendants took their second bill
of exceptions.
The third exception was, to the refusal of the court to
instruct the jury, that the loss of the register, by means
of the capture, and recapture, was not sufficient, in law,
-to defeat the voyage ; but that the loss of that document,
might be supplied by special documents of public officers,
setting forth the circumstances of the loss, so that the
vessel might'have prosecuted that voyage, without seizure and confiscation, under the laws of Great Britain,
for want of a British register.
E.

7. Lee, for the plaintiffs in error.

-1. The voyage insured was never commenced; and
the vessel was not in the prosecution of that voyage, at
the time of her capture.
2. The plaintiffs cannot recover for a total loss. If
there was, in fact, a total loss, it was caused by the misconduct, or neglect, of the plaintiffs, or their agents, in
.not doing the best in their power, for-all concerned.

FEBRUARY, 1806.

369

3. The plaintiffs had not a right to abandon -at the MA.. hr. Co.
op ALEXA:time when they offered to abandon.
V.

4. The loss of the register was not equivalent to the J. A. J. H.
TUC a.
loss of the vessel.
5. The not communicating to the underwriters, the
intention of going to, or touching at; Baltimore, was
such a concealment as vacated the policy.
1st. W¥as there an inception of the voyage insured?
The contract of insurance is founded on good faith,
and must express the intention of the contr.cting parThe object of a policy is, to reduce to certies.
tainty, and to preserve unaltered, what each party engages to perform. The voyage insured, must be truly
and aecuratelv described, as to the time and place at
which the risk is to commence, the place of departure,
and the place, or places, of destination.
Every circumstance relating to the voyage must be
stated with the greatest regard to truth. When, therefore, it is intended that the vessel shall touch at an intermediate port, or ports, it must be stated in the policy. N/arshallon Insurance, 227.
This minuteness of description must have for its
object the protection of underwriters, from those
frauds to which they are exposed, by their unfavourable situation for obtaining correct information. But
this object will be defeated, if the insured are not bound
to commence*and prosecute the voyage described in
the policy.
The voyage insured was from Kingston to Alexandria. The vessel was bound to sail directly to A!exandria,- as'her only port of destination, with all convenient dispatch, in the regular and usual course from
the one place to the other. If she sailed with a determination to go first to Baltimore, and there deliver a
cargo of 30 hogsheads of sugar, and afterwards to
come from Baltimore to Alexandria, she did not comVol 111.

3 B

SUPREME COURT U. S.
MA.

or A
J.

I*. Co. mence, and ,was not lost in the 'prosecution of the voy.EXAN- age described in the policy. If the voyage commenced
was not in every respect the same ivith that insured, the
J.

H.
A14P.
TuckzR.

underwriters are not liable.
The voyage commenced was not a voyage from
Kingston to Alexandria, but a voyage from Kingston
to Baltimore, and from Baltimore to Alexandria.
It is an uncontroverted principle of marine law, that
if the voyage is changed, or not performed in the manner describedin the policy, the policy does not attach.
This principle is established hv the case of 'Wooldridge
v. Boydell, Doug. 16.
.This is not a case of deviation, 'but of non-inception.
In cases of deviation the termini are the same. But
it is 'immaterial ivhether the termination of the voyage
commenced is the same ivith that insured, when the
vessel, in fact and in truth, sails directly for a port nop
mentioned in the policy, nor contemplated by the parties at the time the insurance was made.' If the vessel
in this case had commenced a voyage for Baltimore,
but with an intention to touch at Alexandria, in her
way to Baltimor6,' it would not have been the'voyage
insured. So if the captain was under an engagement,
when he sailed from Jamaica, to go to Baltimore at all
events, before he came to Alexandria.
The terminationof the voyage commenced was Baltimore and Alexandria. The vessel was obliged to
come to both places. The termini of the, voyage were
no those described in the policy.
The fiecessity of commencing "andperforming the
precise voyage described in the policy, is further proved
by the opinion given in,the case of Beatson v. Haworth,
6 T. R. 531, where it is decided, that if a vessel is
insured to several ports, she must pursue the order in
which the places are named in the policy.
in the case of Way v. Zlodigliani, 2 T. R. 30, the
question was, whether the policy ever attached; and,
if it did, whether it was not discharged. by the vessel's

FEBRUARY, 1806,
,not sailing

upon the precise vqyage insured. The case Bi-, li. Co.
was this: a ship was insured " at and from the 20th of oF ALrxA.%October, 1786, from any ports in Newfoundland to
V.
Falmouth, or her ports of disdiarge in the channel" J. AxD I. H.
On'the 1st of October the ship left Newfoundland, and Tucgzn.
went to the Banks, fished there until ihe Vth, and then
saile from the Banks to England; and on the 30th of
November, while in the direct track from Newfoundland to Englanu, she wds lQst. She left Newfoundland

for the Banks lohig before the policy' attached, and al-

though on the 20th of October she was in the direct
course from Newfoundland to England, and so continued until. sie was lost, yet because she sailed from
Newfoundland with an intention of going to the Banks,
and from thence to England, and actually carried that
intention partially into effect; it was determined that
the policy did not attach, and-that the voyage insured
was not commenced. The partial execution of the
intent cannot vary the principle, and was not relied
upon in that case.
BULLRj

J. said, 11 The first is the substantial ground,

namely, that the policy ntver attachedat all. Where
a policy is made in.
such terms as the present, to insure
a vessel from one port to another, she must havei sailed
on the voyage 'insured, and not on any other. The
voyage insured is from a port in Newfoundland to Bngland, whereas the vessel sailed to the Banks, which was
a different voyage. This point has been already de.
cided by the case of Wooldridge v. Boydell, where it
was held, that if- a ship, insured for one voyage, sail
upon another, although in the same track part of the
way, and she be taken before the dividing point between
the two voyages, the policy is discharged. That was
a stronger case than the present, for there the very
intention of sailing upon a voyage different from that
insured, vacated the policy."
'The actual sailing to i port is only one mode of
proving thd sailing with an intention of going to that
port. If the intention is proved, it is -not material by
what means. Marshall,406, (note.) If the voyage is
changed, the policy is vacated.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
A voyage may be changed by taking on board a con.
signment to a different port ;and the consignment will
.beevidence 'of the change. Or it may be changed by
v.
J. AND J. H. varying the plan of the adventure before the commencement of the risk ; but a 'deviation takes place in
.TuoGKER.
the execution of the original plan. Therefore, an intention to alter the voyage will destroy the contract.
4Villar, 431.
MA.

or

IN.Co.

AL.,kANDRIA

To vary in the smallest particular from the original
plan of the voyage, constitutes an alteration. MAlillar,
892.
In the present case the plan of the voyage was fixed
by the policy, and on the 10th of August the vessel
had actually cleared out with an intent to pursue it;
after which, she discharged her ballast, and took in
30 hogsheads of sugar, to be delivered in Baltimore.
This not only altered the original plan of the voyage,
but increased the risk of capture, by increasing the
value of the prize.
The case of Stot v. Yaughan, cited in Marshall,232,
4 Williars' cases, 296, determined by Lord Kenyon, is
in favour of the underwriters upon this point.
The case of Kewley v. Ryan, 2 . 1. 843, is the
only one which has the appearance of opposiion. But
that case will be found to be unlike the present, in the
following particulars :
1.In Kewky & Ryan the vessel sailed from Grenada
for Liverpool, which was the voyage insured, but with
an intention to touch at Cork, which was in the usual
course from Grenada to Liverpool. But, in the present case, the vessel sailed for Baltimore, with an in.
tention to come round to Alexandria from Baltimore,
which is not in the course from Kingston to Alexandria.
2. In Kewley v. Ryan- the vessel intended only to
touch at Cork ; but, in the case at bar, the vessel
sailed on a trading voyage for Baltimore. Stilt v. War.
.dell, 2 Esp. Rep. 610.

FEBRUARY, 1806.

373

3. The Eliza altered the plan of the original adven- MA. I::. Co.
ALaC.ture, by taking in sugar for Baltimore'; but in Kewle/
v. Ryan it does not appear that the original plan was

changed.

J. A.D J. ff.
TucKicta.

4. The 'isk was increased by taking the cargo for
Baltimore, but the intention of touching at Cork did
not increase the risk.
Independent of these differences between the two
cases, it is very questionable whether the determination in Kewley v. Ryan is correct upon principle. It
establishes a doctrine whih enables the insured to defraud underwriters, by making the evidence of intention to vary the voyage, depend upon the single testimony of tlhe master, which is apt to bend to the interest of his employers. It too often happens, that insurance cases depend upon the same kind of testimony.
The case of Kewley v. Ryan is also in principle cnntradicted by that of Middlewood v. Blakes, 7 T. R. 162.
Marshall, 406, note (b.)
'2d. The 2d point is, that if the plaintiffs are entitled
to recover any thing, they can recover only for a partial
loss ; for if an actual total loss has happened, it has
arisen from the negligence and migconduct of the plaintiffs, or their agents, in not doing the beat in theirpower
for all concerned.
The consideration of this question will involve that or
th& right of the plaintiffs to abandon at the time they
'offered to abandon; which is the 3d point in the cause.
In many instances the practice of abandoning has been
extended too far. The insured should in no case be permitted to abandon, where the effects insured, or the
greaterpart of them, still exist and are in the power of
the insured.
The general rule is, that the insured may abandon in
all cases where," by means of any of the perils insured
against, the voyage is totally lost, or not worth pursuing,
,r where the thiing insured is so damaged as to be of

374
I. Co.
or ALj.ANIA
v.*
J. AND J. H.
M'.

TuCKER

SUPREME COURT U. S.

little or no value to the owner, or where the salvage is
very high, or wheie what is saved is of less value than
the freight, or where further, eipense i necessary, and
the insurer will not undertake, at all events, to pay that
expense.
These principles are declared in the following 'cases :
2 Bur. 683, Gos v. Withers. 2 Bur. 1198, Hamilton
v. Mendez. 7 T. R. 421, Aguilar v. Rodgers. 1 Dali.
Rep. 11, Story v. Strettel. -Park.165. 4 Williams' cases,
373, 376.

The capture or arrest of a vessel, or any detention, is
primafacie a total loss, and immediately upon the capture, or ar any time while the capture continues, the insured'may abandon, and give notice, -and thereby entitle
himself to claim as for a total loss. But this must be
done while the insured Anows of the continuance of the
capture, and not after he has informationof the recovery
or safety of the vessel. ZIfaster v. Shoolbred, 1Esp.
Rep. 237. .Marshall, 494, 501.
On the other hand, the recapture does not necessarily
deprive the insured of the right to abandon. For, if in
consequence of the capture, the voyage is lost, or not
worthpursuing,if the salvage be very high, or if further
expense be necessary, and the insurer will ndt undertakq
to pay that exipense, the insured may abandon. Therefore the rule is, that if the thing insured be recovered before any loss is paid, the insured is entitled to claim 'as'
for a total or partial loss, according to the situation of
the case at the time when he m ahes his claim. For there
is no vested right to a total loss until the instired elects
to abandon.
Thiere are two cases which will be cited for the defendants in error. Pringlev. Jlartley, 3 Ath. 195, and
Goss v. Withers, 2 Bur. 683, neither of which is like the
present.
In the case of Pringlev.Hartley, the salvage amounted
'to a moiety of the value of the vessel insured; and there
was no person present to give security or answer for that
moiety.

FEBRUARY, 1806.

375

I. Co.
Tlie case of Goss v. Withers was an insurance on the Mt-ALrxALn

ship and goods.

One fourth of the goods were thrown o"

V.
overboard to preserve the vessel and the residue of the
cargo. After this the vessel was.captured by the French. J. AND J.1.
The master, mate and all the sailors, except an appren- Tucxa.
were taken out and sent to
m,
tice boy and a landsr
France. The ship remained eight days in the hands of thd
French, and was retaken by a British privateer, and on
the 18th of January was carried into pbrt for adjudication.
Immediate notice was given and an offer to abandon.
But before her capture, the ship, in a storm, was separated from her convoy, and disabled'for proceeding
on her vbage, without going into port to refit. The residue of her cargo was spoiled while she was refitting,
after the offer to abandon, and before she could be refitted.
The salvage was' a moiety ; the master and mariners
wereprisoners ; th charter-party dissolved; the freight,
except for the goods saved, was lost; and the voyage wiis
not worth pursuing.
But the situation of the Eliza was very different. She
sailed from Jamaica onlthe 17th of August, was" captured on the 22d, recaptured in less than three days, and on
the'96th was brought into -Kingston, the very port from
which she hAd sailed only nine days before, and where
the iagents of the insured were: The salvage was only'
one eighth, and the coffee on board, belonging to the plaintiffs, wouldave been more than sufficient in value to pay
the whole salvage, and all the charges, and costs, which
did not exceed 909 dollars, even when attended with the
costs of the libel, sale and commissions.
If they had rated the vessel at 3,800 dollars, the sum
insured,'yet the salvage woulaI have been only476 dollars.
The point decided in Goss and Withers was, that a
restitution cannot take away a vested rightto abantitle t'o
don, if the vessel be unfit to perform the voyage.
,There is nothing in the record which shows that, at
the time of the recapture, the Eliza was-unfit to perform
the voyageThe. abandonment of a vessel is an extreme remedy,
which 'the insured has inhis p'wer, but which he ought

SUPREME COURT U. S.
MA. IN. Co.
or ALEXAN-

V.

J. AND

J. H.

TUcKLY..

not to be permitted to use, when he has another rcmedyt

which will completely indemnify him for the injury he
has actually sustained.

This case, we contend, ought to be decided upon the

~ principles which governed that of Hamilton v. Alendez,

2 Bur. 1198. There the ship was captured on the 6th
of May, by a French privateer, and all her hands, excepting two, were taken out. On the 23d she was recaptured by a British ship of war, and sent into a British port, where she arrived on the 6th of June. As
soon as the insured heard of the capture, he wrote and
offered to abandon to'the underwriters. They refused to
receive the abandonment, but offered to pay the salvdge,
and all the losses and charges which the insured had sustained.by the capture. The question was, whether, on
-the ic6th Jine, the insured had a right to abandon and
recover as for a total loss., The court decided, that lie
could recover as for
had no right to abandon, and that he
a partial loss only. The principle of that case is, that if
the voyage be only temporarily interrupted, the property, upon the recapture, returns to the owner pledged to
the recaptor for the amount of sahage. This doctrine is
also stated in the case of ills v. F/etcher, Doug-. 219,
and Thellusson v. Fletcher, 1 Esp. Rep. 73.
The actual loss which the insured sustained, was not
a total loss, until rendered so by their own negligence or
misconduct, or that of their agents. It only amounted to
909 dollars, including salvage./ Even if the vessel had
been valued at the price insured, viz. 3,800.dbllars, the
salvage (which by Stat. 33 Geo. 3, c. 66, cannot exceed
one eighth) would have amounted only to 475 dollars,
which added to the other expenses, would not have exceeded 1,000 dollars.
This sum ought to have been paid by the .igents of the
insured, who had in their possession funds of their principal, out of which it might have been paid. But it
does not appear that they made any effort, or offer to pay
it, or to prevent the sale ; or any proposition to ascertain
the value of the vessel, otherwise than by a sale. They
did not do the best in their power for all concerned, but
calmly stood by and saw the vessel sacrificed, when. they
had the power of preventing it.

r.EBRUARY, 1806.-

377

The insured, therefore, cannot, byabandobment, turn AtA. i-. c .
or ALZXAI?.
a partial into a total loss. Esp. Rep. 73.
DZUA
V.

It appears upon the recorantnat ute insured were

anxious to sell the vessel, and this may account for the
want of exertion on the part of their agents to prevent
a sale, which would charge the underWriters with the
full value of sso0 dollars.
4th. The loss of the register was not equivalent to the
loss of the vessel, qnd was not an event against whih
the iniurance was made.
But the loss of the register might have been supplied
by another document, such ai a consular certificate,
stating the -circumstances attending, the loss, which
would have enabled the vessel to perfutm the joyage
insured, 1 Rob. 184, The Betty Cathcart. 8 T. R. 198,
Cthristie v. Secritan. The want of a register would not
have occasioned -a forfeiture of the vessel, but would
only have subjected 'her to the inconvenience of being
considered and treated as a foreign bottom.
5th. The not communicating to the underwriters the
intention of going to Baltimore vacated the policy, as
the risk was thereby increased. Marsh. 347. 3 Bur.
1909, ,'arter
450.

v. ,Boehm. 1 I

B1. 594, S. C. Ailar,

Simms & Swann, copztra. Contended, 1. That the
voyage commenctd was the voyage insured. 2. 1That
the instired had a right to abandon and recover as for a
total loss. 1. A policy of 'insurance, like every other written

agreement, is to be construed according to the intention
ofthe parties. The understanding in this case was that
the underwriters should take all the risk of a voyage
from Jamaica to Ak-xadidria; and conspquently they
took the risk of the vi.yage from Jamaica to the Chesapeake Bai, through which a vessel must pass to arrive

at Alexandria.
Vol HL

uL
D j- I.

TucxEn.

378

SUPREME COURT U. S.

BLM. Ih. Co.
We admit the intention to deviate after entering the
0? -DRIA
&LEXAN- Chesapeake, 5ut we insist that the voyage. and'risk inv.
sured had commenced; and that the vessel was in the
J.

AMIl J
T-OCzCR.

. actual prosecution of that voyage when the loss happened. In such a case, although there was an intention to
deviate, the insured had a right to abandon. Park, 314.
trg
t1249, Foster v. Wilmer. Burns on Insurance, LOT.
2 H. BI. 343, Kewley v. Ryan. 2 New-orh Term Rep.
274, Henshaw v. Marine Insurance Company.
In the case of Wooldridge v. Boydell, there was no intention of going at all to the place mentioned in the policy.
The only point in the case of Stitt v. Wardell, 2 Esp.
Pep. 610, is the difference bet*een touching and trading at a port. In that case there was an actual trading,
but here was only an intention to trade.
In Beatson v. Hazoorth, 6 T. R.. 53I, -the decision
was merely that if the voyage dpscribed be to B and
C, the vessel deviates by going to C first, and afterwards to B, although C be the nearest port.
In Way v. Modigliani, 2 T. R. 30, the real ground
of the opinion of the court is, an actual deviation by tha
vessel having sailed for and stopped to fish on the
Banks, instead of sailing directly from Newfoundland
to England.
The opinion of Roccus, cited in a note tO' Ndi/t)1
a
406, is contradicted by that of Emerigir, also cited in
the same note-and th latter seems to. be tht better
opinion.
If the alteration of the voyage takes place'before, the
lisk is commenced, it becomes a different voyages but
If after, theti it is only a'deviation. -Mlillar, 117.
1h the present case, the risk commenced at Jamnaica,
and before the alteration of the voyage was contemplated.

FEBRUARY, 1806.
It was to terminate at Alexandria. When the termi- MA. lIV. Co.
nus a quo, and the terminus ad quem, are the'same, the or ALiXAn.
v.
voyage is the same.
J. Aur J. M.
2. The loss itself, was, in fact, total, and unless the Tvctu.
insured have been in fault, they ought to reover foi a
total loss.i
The loss of the register alone was sufficierit to defeat
the wholevoyage, and if the vessel had sailed without it,
ar'd had been lost, the underwriters would have been
discharged by that very fact 'of the vessel sailing with.
out proper. documents. It would so increase the risk
of loss by seizure and condemnation, as to vacate the
policy. " If she had been found sailing without a regis.
ter, she would have beeri considered by the British laws
as an alien vessel, and if found trading from a British
colony would 'have been liable to condemnation.Reeve on Ship. 46, 379i, 29. Bryan & Co. were not
-the general agents of the -defenlants in trror. Their
authority ceased when the vessel was" dispatched and
had sailed from Jamaica for. Alexandria. They were
mot authorised 'o sacrifire, the property of the insured
in their hands, if they had any, to-raise money to pay
the salvage and expenses. It is true, the master'had an
implied authority to do what was fit andproper for the
benefit of all concerned; but he was not authorised to
send.out the vessel without a register and phe could
never get a new one unless, her owners (the insured)
should change their- domicil. No document- could
supply the place of that which itself never could have
been obtained, and to which the party -vds not entitled.
The-exception is to the refusal of the court to give
the instruction' prayed. This instruction would have
been'improper for, two reasons.
1. -It wouldlhave been conclusive of the whole cause,
,and no-such instruction can be'given, unless all the
evidence is stated, and unless the bill of exceptions
avers it to b'e th whole evidence. Thip bill of e.xceptions does notontain the' ,hole evidence, nor such an
averment.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
?4A.
IN. Co.
2. The instruction, prayed involves the decision of
or ALEXA
ZToR A " a fact, which the jury only were competent to find,

v.
viz. whether the damage amounted to more'than half
J. AwD J.. H. the value of the thing insured, Mills v. Fletcher,Doug.
230.
This fact is not stated in the bill of exceptions,
TueER.
nor any other fact from which the court can infer it, It
contains no evidence that the master had funds to pay
the salvage and charges.
The evidence shows the'loss to be actually total.
The information of the capture, recapture, libel for
salvage, and sale to a stringer, all came io the insured
at the same time ; and there is no evidence of fraud or
collusion. The only allegation is, that tje master did
not do every thing in his power to prevent a total loss.
But this allegation is unsupported by evidence. Even'
if, by a sacrifice of the cargo, he had raised money
enough to- pay the salvage,. expenses, costs, hargep
and repairs, he must have obtained a new crew, and
then could not have sailed without a register.
The voyage wi completely destroyed ; and, upon
an abandonment, which the insured. had a right to
make, relief would have been refused to the underwri,
ters, even in equity. 3 Atk. 195, Pringle v. Blartley.
larshall,485.
C. Lee, in reply. There are two bills of exceptions
to the opinion of the court.
Ist. To the instruction given in favour of the plaintiff
below, that there was no deviation from the voyage insured, and that the voyage iinsured was actually commenced.
20d. To the refusal of the court to instruct the jury.
that if the facts stated in that bill of exceptions, should
be proved to their satisfaction, they ought not to find a
i erdict for a total, but at most for a nartial loss.
1. The voyage insured was a direct voyage from
Kingston in Jamaica, to Alexandria in Virginia. But
the. voyage commenced was a voyage from Kingston to
Baltimore, and from thence to Alexandria.

Baltimore

FEBRUARY, 1806.

not being in the direct course from Kingston to Alex- MA. IN. Co.
andria, the voyage commenced was not a direct voyage 0' ALzXAr.]DRIIA
from Kingston to Alexandria, and, therefore, was not
V.
the voyage insured. There can be no necessity of re- J. AND J. IL
ferring to authorities to show that, in a policy, a voyage Tucm.a.
from one plac.e to another, always means a direct voyage in the usual course; because, upon this principle
is founded the whole doctrine of deviation. But the
cases of Beatson V'.Haworth, 6 T. R. 531. Delaney v.
Stoddert, 1 T. R. 22, and Middlewood v. Blahes, 7 T.
R. 162, show with what strictness it has been maintained.
If the direct voyage was not commenced, the commencement of an indirect, circuitous voyage, will avail
nothing. The voyage insured was not commenced,
Doug. 16, Wooldridge v. Boydell. 2 T. R. 30, WayJ v.
174odigliani. Even if the risk is diminisjied by the circuitous course, it is not a justification -of the voyage,
'and will not support the policy. Millar, 377, 382.
The case of Kewley v. Ryan, 2 H. B. 343, is relied
upon by the defendants in error. But the law of that
case is doubted by 111arshall, 232, who refers to the
case of Stott v. Vaughan, decided in the king's bench,
in 1794, and is opposed to the case of Wooldridge v.
Boydell.
Kewley v. .2yan differs essentially from the present
ease. The intention in the former was only to touch
at Cork, in the way to Liverpool. Whether Cork is
not usually touched at in- such voyages, does not appear; but no cargo was on board to be delivered at
Cork. The only port of delivery was Liverpool
In the present case, a considerable cargo was received on freight, deliverable at Baltimore. The intention, therefore, was not merely to touch, but to
trade at Baltimore. It was one of the principal objects
of the voyage. To, touch at a port, differs essentially
from deliveriaga cargo, and trading at a port. 2 N T.
Term Rep. Williams v. Smith, refers to Stitt v. Wardell,
decided by Lord Kenyon, in 1797, Marshall, 187.
After clearing for Alexandria, to receive a cargo fo.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
NA,

or

In.

Co.

ALEXATDRIA.

alteration of the voyage, insured.

"V.
TUCkE4.

U"00

Baltimore, to be delivered thee forttrade, and to sail
with intention to go to Baltimore first, wav acomplete

'

The opinion in Kewley v. Ryan, if understood
rightly, does not decide this case against the underwriters. The court siys, 11where the termini of the
intended voyage are really the same as those described
in the policy,, it is to be considered as the same voyAge.1"
The word termini does not meat merely the beginning and'end of a thing,, but all the limits; ahd, in
regard to a voyage, it means also the intermediate ports
of delivery for any part of the carg9.
In the present case the policy expresses but one port
of delivery, the voyage commenced was to two ;, one
of which was out of the course to that mentioned in the
policy.
The case of Way v. .&odgliani, was not decided on
the ground of deviation, but expressly on the ground
of no#Ainception. Upon this point, the opinion of
Buller, J."is full.
Wooldridge v. Boydell was not decided on the fact,
that there was no intention of sailing to the port mentioned in -the policy, but upon the fact that the vessel
,had actuhllf sailed for a different port.
The weight cf the case of Kewley v. Ryan, therefore, is diminished.
1. Because it stands contradicted.

2, It differs essentially frormi the case before the
court, and is not decisive.
3. It may be reconciled with the doctrine advanced
in this case by the plaintiffs in errgr,' and, 'if so understoo~d, is in their favour.

FEBRUARY, 1-806.
4. If understood as t~e-detendants in eeror contend bi&. I.
law.
it ought to be, it is not
•

Cz

or Ar.x¢MSLIA.
..

2. The 2d bill of exceptions states a case, which J. iu j.
would justify the instruction prayed by the defendants

below.
Bryan & Co. were the agents and correspondents
of the owners-Pattonalso was an agent.-having gone
out in the vessel as supercargo, and the owners are
answerable for their negligence.
On the 24th of SeptemberBel//the master, and Patton,
the supercargo, by their protest, abandoned the vessel
and cargo to the underwriters, when both were safe iik
the harbour of Kingston, liable only to a small salvage,
and to some expenses; and, when the coffee belonging
to the defendants in error, find then on board, was
more than sufficient to pay all the demands against the
vesser. There was no necessity of selling the vessel.
Her value might have been ascertained in some other
mode. Upon application to the court of admiralty,
appraisers would have been appointed. But the agents
neither attempted to agree with the recaptors for the
amount of the salvage, nor applied to the court tb appoint appraisers, but suffered the expenses to be increased unnecessarily, by the admiralty process, and
by the-commissions on the sale.
The 2gnts of the owners ought to have done as
much to increase the amount saved, as if no insurance
had been made. • It was their duty ta do the best for
all concerned. If they did not, and if' by their negligence the loss has been converted from a partial to a
total loss, the underwriters ought not to suffer. Their
contract was a contract of indemnity against unavoid:
able loss, and the insured were bound to use the same
care and diligence which a prudent man would use in
securing his own property.
As to the loss of the register, it would not have been
a cause of co.,demnation. 'I he law cited from Reeves
applies only to a vessel which never had a register, and

Tucxzk.

W1,

SUPREME COURT U: S.
MA. I-. Co.-not to
or Ar.xaiLdent.

J.

one who~e register has been 4estroyed by accj-

Vt..
A1D J.. i.

.Ntarch 4.
SMARS

ALL,

Ch.

j.. did not sit

in the trial of this

cause.
The other judges, except CiASE, J. whose ill health
-pravented his attendance, gave their opinions seriatitm.

Upon the trial of this cause, in the
JoHNSoN, J.
court below, iwo gr6unds of defence were assumed by
the plaintiffs in error.
1. That the policy had been avoided by a deviation
from the voyageinsured.
2. That if the insured were entitled to recover at all,
it could only be for an average, not a total loss.
-In the argument before this court, the first ground
was varied, and the plaintiffs in error contended,
": that the risk insured was never entered upon."
Without considering the propriety of entering upon
the discussion of a question so materially different from
that made in the' bill of exception, I will only remark
" that it was judicious in the counsel to abandon an
opinion as inconsistent with natural reason, as it is with
the established doctrine of the law of insurance. An
intent to do an act, can never amount to the commission
of the act itself. That an intended deviation will not
vitiate a policy, and that thevessel remains covered by
her insurance until she reaches the point of divergency,
and actually turns off from the due course of the voyage insured, is-a doctrine well inderstood among rnercantile men, and has uniformly governed the decisions
of the British courts from the case of Foster uTWilmer
to the present time.
The doctrine now insisted on by.the plaintiffs in error,
was probably suggested by some incorrect expressions
attributed to Lord Mansfield in the case of Wooldridge

FEBRUARY,

1806.

,48

Boyde'l. It is.said that the Judge in that case ex, M& Th. ..
AL'Attpressed an opinion, that - if 9.ship be insured from A or. V,
toa B,and before her departure the insured determine
that she shall call at C, which is out of the usual course J ANn J. V.
ofthe voyage from A to B, this is rather- a different TuCKvoyage thatian intended deviation." This opinion was
certainly in no wise material to the decision of that case,
and is expressly contradicted by the case of Kewley &.
Ryan, and a case, which [ consider with much respect,
decided in the State of New-York, between Henshara
and- the Marine as urane Company of Nezv-ork. We
can only vindicate the accuracy of his Lordship's
opinion in the case which he states by supposing, that
his mind was intent upon those eases of initended deviAtionl in which a suppressio veri, or necessary, increaso
'ofrisk, are the grounds of decision.
The ordinary rule for ascertaining the identity of ar

yoyage insured, is by adverting to ithe termini. A rule
which is certainly correct as far at it extends, but in-the

'rigid application of which, it is easy to conceive that
cases may occur in which it would bear injuriously
upon the insurer. If it has any defect, it is in not.ex,
tending far enough the claim to indemnity, as the ter.,
minus adque)n may in many instances be relinquishcd
without any possible increase of risk, or even without'
varying thtt risk, except only as to lessening its dura,
tion. I will instance the case' of an insurance from
America to St. Petersburg, when the vessel, in fact, is
to terminate her voyage at Copenhaget ; or the case
of an insurance to Alexandria, in Virginia, when the
vessel is to terminate her voyage at Georgetown, in
Maryland.
Whethpr the risk insured against in this case, ever
was incurred, I would test by the question, whether, if

the Eliza had 'rrived in safety, or even had sailed for
Europe, the insured might have legally demanded a

return of the premium?

I presume not.

The insur,.

ance being at and, from the port of Kingston, the ris.4

commenced during her stay in port, and cannot be ap.
portioned when thus blended, but was wholly and inde.
feasibly vested in the underwriters, although the vea
Vo 111

3D

SUPREME COURT U. S.
XL-'A1. c.
ALXA V.
J. AN J. H.
TTuCKER.
or

sel. had forfeited her policy by 'shaping her course for
Europe the moment she had left the port of Kingston.
In the case before us, she adhered to her ultimate des-'
tination, and the forfeiture of her insurance could not
have been incurred until after entering the Chesapeake
and actually bearing away farther eastward than was
vonsistent with her course to the Potowmack.
2. With regard to the question, whether it be a case
of total or average loss, a very few observations will
suffice to satisfy the mind that the judgment below is
correct.
• If, undpr every combination of circumstances, the
insured4s bound to procure money at whatever interest,
or to raise it at whatever sacrifice of property, to defray
the disbursements for repairs, reshipping a crew, sal.
vage, costs of suit, and every incideital expense, this
will be shifting the loss from the insurer to the insured.
Should it be admitted, that in the case before us, the
iniured were under any greatei obligation to ransom
and refit the vessel than the insurer, the circumstances
in evidence are sufficiont to excuse him. Unsuccessful
attempts had been made to dispose of both vessdl and
cargo, and as to raising money on bottomry, who Would
have accepted the security of a, vessel embarrassed by
the loss of her register, to a degree, the extent of which
could not possibly be foreseen; a bond for money to
become due on the arrival of a vessel which perhaps
might never be able to sail, or if she did sail without
hei, hecessary documents, would be exposed to innumerable hazards, and among them, the forfeiture 'of her
insurance for that very cause..
-

It is true, that a case of capture and recapture, where
the two events are communicated, before an election to
abandon has been actually communicated to the underwriters, wilt not, of itself, sanction an ab'andonment.Yet, it is equally true, that in case of capture, a recap.
ture alone will' not deprive the party of his right to
abandon. The consequences of the capture and recap.
tur e, the effect produced upon the fate of the voyage,
must gowv'rn the right of the parties. This efiect is
always a matter of evidence, and must rest much upon

FEBRUARY, 180b.

387

the discretion of. a jury. This doctrine is well i~lus- BrA. iy. Cb.
trated in the cases of Pringle & Hartley, and Goss & o0 ALx-LX*!
Withers.
In the case before us, the information of the capture,
recapture, and sale, was communicated in the same
fetter. "The loss was, then certainly total, and. as the
insurers cannot charge the insured with any premeditat.
ed design to involve the vessel in the difficulties which
broke up the voyage, I think they 'ought 'to bear the
loss.

Much has been said about the liability of the insured
for the misconduct of his agents, but. as all amounts to
_a charge that they did not make use of forced means to
raise money for the release of the-vessel, an obligation
not incumbent upon them, it does not appear to me
-that the, extent of the liability of the insured for the
acts of the captain or supercargo; after the deathstrogJ is given to the~voyage, need be considered.
WASHfNGTON, J. There are but two questions inthis
cause, which I deem worthy of particular consideration ;
for the last exception is, to the refusal of the. court to
give an opinion upoi a: matter of fact, and for Chich no
foundation was laid by the evidence spread upon the.. record, even if it had been proper for the-court, in-such a
case, to give an answer to the question propbunded. I,
:also, lay out of the case, the award mentioned in the
declaration, not only because no breach is assigned whiich
applies to it, but beca~Use no opinion was asked of; or
given by, the court respecting it.

The first subject which claims attention is, whether,
-upon the facts stated in the second bill of exceptions, the
court below was right in the direction given to the jury,
that there was no deviation, at the tme of capture from
the voyage insured, and that the voyage insured was actu'ally commenced. The facts, miteril tb the decision of
this point, are, that the Eliza ceared out at Kingston, for
Alexandria, and a bill of lading was signed by the master, to deliver her cargo at Alexandria. That after her

J.

D

A&D .J.HI.
TucKEa.

1 SS4

SUPREME 'COU T U. S.

Co. clearances were obtained, she took in a cargo for B iltimore, and bills of lading were signed for delivering the
saine at that port. That the captain sailed from KingsV'.'
,
3. k.vi J.H. ton, with an intention, previously formed, of proceeding
A.

1i.

p.r ALBox"k-

Tuck.
.

first-to Baltimore, and there Lnding part of her cargo,

Y~

'and then to go to Alexandria, but she was captured before-her arrival at the dividing point, between Baltimore
,and Alexandria.
It is admitted, that this is not a case of deviation,
because the intention formed at Kington, befbre the
voyage commenced, of going first to Baltimore, was
.never carried into execution. The only question then is,
whether the voyage described in the policy was changed
or not? As to this, there is no difference of opinion at
,the bar,, respecting the legal effect of an alteration of ihe
voyage, on the contract of indemnity ; it is, and must be
conceded, that the policy never attached. But the difficulty is in determining what circumstances do, in point
of law, constitute suLh an alteration as will avoid the
policy.
The criticisms of the counsel for the plaintiffs in
error, upon the rule contended for by the defendants,
ought not, in my opinion, to avail them, if that rule be
firmly established by uniform decisions : for in questio'1s
Which respect the rights of property, it is better to adhere to principles once fixed, though, originally, they
might not have been perfectly free from all objection, than
,to unsettle the law, in order to render it more consistent
with the dictates of sound reason.
The first case we meet with, .upon this subject, is that
of "Carterv. 7he Royal Exchange Assurance Company,
which is cited in Foster v. Wilmer, decided in the 19
Gee. 2. The former wa an insurance on a ship from
Honduras to London, and the latter on a ship from Carolina to Lisbon, and at and from thence toBristol. In
both, a cargo was taken in to be delivered at an intermediate port; but the loss having happened before the ship'
ad arrived at the dividing point, the insurers were held
liable, upon the ground that nothing more was intended
than a deviation, whih, not being carried into execution,
did not avoid the policy.

7ERPARY, 180"6.

389

The-case of Wooldridge v. Boydell, is next in point of MA- Iv. ..
time. This was an insurance on a ship, at and frmm or ALr.X.%Maryland to Cadiz. She cleared for ]b almouth, and a
;.
bond was given to land the whole cargo in Britain. No . &. J. L
evidence was given -that the vessel was bound to Cadiz;
she was taken before she came to the dividing point. At
the trial of this cause, Lord Mansfield told the jury, that if
they thought the voyage intendxd, -was to Cadiz, they
were to find for the assured ; but if there was no design
to go'to that port, their they were to find for the defendant, and the, grotind upon which the court decided the
-nmotion for a new trial was, that there never was an intentibn to go to'Cadiz. But it is plain, that if Cadiz had been
inten'ded as the ultimate port of destination, the clearing
out-for an intermediate port, with an intention to land the
cargo there, would not have been considered as any thing
more than an intended deviation.
WTJay and Modigliani was decided in 1787, and was an
insurance at and from the 20th October, 1786, from
Newfoundland to Falmouth, with liberty to touch at
Ireland. She sailed on the 1stof October, from Newfoundland, went to the Banks and fished till the 7th; and
then sailed for England, and was lost on the 20th. The
reAsons assigned for the decision of this case, give it the
appearance of an authority unfavourable to "the doctrine
laid down in the above cases. But the weight of it is
greatly diminished, il it be not destroyed, by the following considerations : 1st. That as there was a clear deviation,. it was unnecessary to decide the other point that
-the policy did not attach; and, 2d. That this latter
-opinion seems to have been entertained only by one of
the court, and even this judge seems to have relied very
much upon the fact, that the vessel sailed to the Banis.
3d. From what is said in Kewley & Ryan, it would
appear that the ship, when she left Newfoundland,
,did not sail for England, and of course the voyage insured never was commenced.
Kewley & Ryan, decided in 1794, was a policy on
goods from Genoa to Liverpool. The ship sailed on that
voyage, but it was intended, as plainly appeared by tho
clearances, to tou;h at Cork. She 'was lost, however,
.brfore she arrived at the dividing point ; and the decision conformed to those given in the preceding cases, the

390

lhr..Co. termini of the intended voyage being really the same as
those described in the policy;

UA.

or

SUPREME COURT U. S.

ALPXANDRI-A
V."

AND J. H. . The case of Stott'&? Vaughan, decided at Nisi Prtus, in
TuCKER.
11794, before LordKenyon, seems opposed to the principles
'laid

down in the preceding cases,- and, if we have an accurate report of it, is inconsistext with the decisions of
the same judge, in Ke'wley and Ryan, and other cases.
Murdoch and Potts,' decided in 1795, was, in principie, as stroig a case 'of a change of voyage, as that of
Wooldridg:e and .8Aydell,' but equally contributes to
explain the general doctrine laid down in all the, cases.
For in this, the terminusa
ad quem was, most obviously,
St. Domingo, where.the. freiht insured was payable; or
some port, Qther than 'Norfolk, where the ship was to cal.
for the sole purpose of receiving orders.
The last English case which '1 shall notice, is that of
.Middle'wood and Blakes, decided in 1197. Itwas an iiisurance on the Arethusa, at and from London to 7amaica,
for which place she cleared out; but the captain was bound
by orders, to call at Cape St. Nicola Mole, in order to land
storesthere, pursuant to a charter-paiky. 'She was capttred after she had passed the- dividing point d three
several courses to Jamaica, but before she had 'reached
the subdividing point of the continuing course to Jamaica
and that leading to the Mole. The whole court' considered this as a case of deviation only, and'Lawretfce J.
was so strongly impressed with -the weight".of 'forpier
decisions, that, not attending to this obvious vbjectaon
to the plaintiff's recovery, but,.considering the termini of
the voyage intended to be 'tie same ivith' those men.
tioned in the policy, his first opinion inclihed to the'side
of the plaintiffi,
The case of Henhaw
C'ompany, dedided in the
confirms the principles of
command my respect were

and The Marine Insurande,,
supreme court of .ew-A'If'
the above cases, and would
it opposed to them.

The rule, then,wjhich I consider to be firmly established,
by a long and uniform course of decisions, is, that if
the ship sail from the port mentioned inlthe policy, with
an intention to go to the port, or ports, also described

FEBRUARY, 1806.

391

therein, a determination.to call at an intermediate port, A- IN. Co.
A
z-.
either with a.view to landi cargo, for orders, or the like, or DRZLk
.
is iot such a change of the voyage as to-prevefit the policy
from attaching, but is merely a case of deviatioti, if the J. AWo J. IL
intention be carried into execution, or be persisted iii TuCalzml.
after the vessel has arrived at the dividing point.
The next question is, whethert.he court below, erred
in refusing to instruct the jury, that if they helieved the
facts stated in the first bill of exceptions, they were to
find an average and not a total loss ? The defendants in
error, contend,'that by the capture and recapture of the
yessel, under the various circumstances of loss of crew,
ianbility to pay the salvage and expenses, loss of register,
&c. the voyage insured was completely defeated, and,
therefore, the assured had a right to abandon.and demand
as for a total loss.
On the other side it is insisted, that the captain might,
in a variety of ways, have prevented the sale of the vessel, and that if he had done the best in his power for
the interests of all concerned, he might have liberated the
vessel from the lien of the captors, and have performed
his Voyage in safety to Alexandria, without any other
inconvenience than -this temporary interruption, and the
payment of salvage and expenses. If so, that it was not
competent to the assured, under-these circumstances, to
Qnvert a loss partial iDits nature into a total one.
Whether the assured had a right to, abandon, and recover as for a total loss, qr not, was a question of law,
'deoendent" upon the point of fact, whether, upon the
wiole of the evidence, the voyage was broken up, and
not worth pursuing; and in the consideration of this
question, the jury would, of course, have inquired,
amongst other matters, whether the captain had done
what was est for the benefit of all coqcerned. The
04rt might, with propriety, have stated the law' arising
iUpon this fact, which ever way the jury might find it, and
indeed such would have been their duty, if a.request to
that effedt had been made. But the court very correctly
refusedto give the direction as prayed,'becaase, by doing
so, tlhey wouldhave decided the important matter ofIract,
upon which the'aw was to arise, which.wa only proper
for thedeteriiiatior of the jury. In -the cat" of JMlt-

SUPREME COURT U. S.
MA. IN. co. and Flether, which turned upon the question, whether
er ALzx.&x- the captain, by his conduct, had not made the loss a total,

one, Lord Mansfield would not decide whether the loss.
A,ND,J. if was total or not,
but informed
the jury, *that
they were
•
•
J
Tvc&ER.
to find as for a total loss, if they were satisfied that the
X""v't~'captain had done what was best for the benefit of all con3A

cerned,

Upon the whole, then, I am of opinion, that the judgment ought to be affirmed.
PATrRSON, J. This action was brought on a policy,
of insurance, which-john and James H. Tucker, being
British'subjects, residents at Alexandria, had effected on
the body of the sloop Eliza, her tackle, apparel, and furniture, to the valbe of 3,800 dollars, at and from Kingston, in the island of Jamaica, to Alexandria, in the.
state of Virginia. The policy bears date the 1st of September, 18Q1.
I The first question to be considered is, whether the voyage, on*which the sloop Eliza set out, was the same or a.
different voyag.- from the one insured ? By the terms of

the policy, it is stipulated, that the Eliza was to sail from
Kingston td Alexandria ;' and it is stated in the bill of
exceptions, that she .did.sail from Kingston, but with an
intention to go first to Baltimore, and there deliver 20
hogsheads and 10 tierces of sugir, and then to proceed
to Alexandria, which was the port of destination described in the' policy. She cleared out at the customhouse in Kingston, on the 10th of August, 1'801, for
Alexandria, and the master signed a bill of lading to de-.
liver her cargo at that place ; after vhich he took in the
sugar, to be delivered at Baltimore. It is contended on
the part of the insurers, that the taking in the sugar, to
he landed at Baltimore, constituted a different voyage
from the one agreed upon, and vitiates the policy ; or in
other words, .that the voyage which was the subject of
the contract, was never commenced. From a review of
the cases, which have been cited, the principle is established, tlhat where the trmini of a vovage are the same,,
an intention to touch at an intermediate port, though out'
of. the direct course, and not mentioned in the policyl,
does not constitute a different voyage. In the, present
ease the termini,or beginning and ending points of the iii,

FEBRUARY, 18o6

393

tended voyage, were precisely the same as -those sped- MA. I.-1.Co.
1ed in the policy, to wit, from Kingston to Alexaridria, o ALrx~r
DRIA
and, in legal estimation, form one and the same voyage,
v.
notwithstanding the meditated deviation. The first re- J. A^D J. H.
ported case on this subject is Foster v. Tf'ilmer, in 2 Str. TucKSzl
1249 ; in which Lee, C. J. held, that taking in salt to be
delivered at Falmouth, a port not mentioned in the policy, before the vessel went to Bristol, to which place
she was insured, was only an intention to deviate, and
not a diflerent voyage; , And the chief justice, in delivering his opinion, mentioned the case o'f Carter v. The
Royal Exchange Assurance Company, where the insurance was from Honduras to. London, and a consignment
to Amsterdam; a loss happened before she came to the
dividing point between the two voyages, for which the
insurer was.held liable. The adjudication in Strange
was in the 19 Geo. 2, and from that time down to the
year 1794, we find no variation in the doctrine. A remarkable uniformity runs through the current of authorities on this subject. In Kewley v. Ryan, 2 H. BL 343,
Trinity term, 1794, the principle is recognised ; and in
2 N ew-ork Term Rep. 274, Hez'lhaw v. The .11farine
_Tnsui'ance Company, Pebruary, 1805, it is fortified and
considered-as settled by the supreme court of that state.
In a lapse of sixty years we find no'alieration in the doctrine, which is sanctioed, and has become too deeply
rooted and venerable by time, usage, and repeated ad.
judications, to be shak-e and overturned at the preseInt
day. 'It has grown up into a dear, known, and certain
rule, for the regulation of commercial negotiations, and
is incorporated into the law -Merchant of the land.
Where is the' inconvenience, injustice, or danger of the
-rule? It operates in favour of the insurers, by a diminution of the risk, and not of the insured, who have
.the departure in contemplation ; for if the vessel, after
she has arrived at the point of separation, should deviate
from tie usual and direct road to her port of destination,
the insurers would be entitled to the premium, and
exonerated from responsibility. An intention to deviate,
if it be not carried into effect, will not avoid the policy.
There must be an actual deviation. The policy being
" at andfrom," the risk commenced there was also an
actual incept6n of the voyage described; for the Eliza
sailed from Kingston for Alexandrib, 'was captured in a
Vol. lie

3E

SUPREME COURT U. S.
MA. li. Co.- direct course to the latter, before she reached tife dividOr ALZXAN ing point; and, therefore, the underwriters became liaDRIA.
ble for the loss.
J. AND J.

H.

T'CKZR.

k

The second point in the cause is, whether the insurers

/were

liable f'or a total or a partial loss e And here a pre-

liminary question presents itself. Was the abandonment
made in proper time? When the Tuckers received information of the loss, it became in umbent on thems
to elect, whether they would abandon or not; and if
they intended'to abandon, it was incumbent on them
-to give notice of such intention to "the underwriters.
Our law has fiked no precise period, -vithin which
the abandonment shall be made, and notice of it shall
le given to the insurers; but declares, that it shall
be done within a reasonable time. In the case before
us it appears, that John and James H. Tucker received infbrmation of the capture and recapture of the
Eliza at the same time, in a letter from W. andB. Bryan
and Co. dated on the 26th September, 1801 ; but it does
not appear when the letter came to hand. On the 26th of
INovember, 1801, the Tuckers offered to abandon the
Eliza to the insurers, which offcr was rejected. Can it,
under these circumstances, be-pretended, that the Tuckers were guilty of neglect, or that the abandonment was
.notmade according to the settled rule? It was made within
a reasonable time, and no neglect can justly be imputed to
them.. We must have some facts, whereon to build the
chargeof negligence, fo'r it is not to be* presumed ; and
the intervening period between the date of the letter ,and
the time of'abandonment, after making a due allowan'ce
for the passage of the letter, does not afford suffirtqnt
ground; on which to raise the imputation of negleet. This
brings us to the great question in the cause, vhAither the
insurers were liable for a total or an average loss. On
the 22d August, 1801, the Eliza was captured by a
Spanish armed schooner, in th usual course trom Kingston to Baltimore and Alexandria, and a day or two afterwards was, recaptured by a Bi itish sloop of war, and carrind into Kingston 6n the 26th of the same month. '1he
mere acts of capturing and recapturing are not of themselves suffi lent to ascertain the nature and amount of the
loss sustained. [he loss may be total, though there is
a recapture.
Hamilton v. Mendez, 2 Bur. 119,8.
Aguilar and others v. Rdgers, 7 D. & E. 42 1. Wh*ether the loss be partial or total, will depend upon the par-

FEBRUARY, 1806,

395

ticular-circumstanceis of the case, which it becomes ne- MA. Iz.

e.,

cearv to take into view. The Eliza was cohs ined to or ALZXAU.
a.
Bryan & Co. at Kingston, who were authorised to dispose of her ; they endeavoured to sell .her, but without j. A,:o j. H.
effect , and it is stated, that they could get no offer for Tucczn.
her before she sailed from Kingston, nor since that time.
Bryan & Co. put on board 10 tierces of coffee, of the
value of 1,000 dollars, belonging to the Tuckers, to be
delivered at Alexandria;*and when she was captured,
all the seamen; except Bell, the ostensible master, and
one man, were taken on board the Spanish schoofter.
The Eliza was navigated under a'British register during the vw.y ge ; which register was lost by reason of
the capture and recapture, and his never been found.
After the recapture, the Eliza and her cargo were
libelled in the vice-admiralty court for salvage; a
claim, was put in by Bryan & Co. as agents for
1li Richard Patton, the real and navigating mas'ter and supercargo; ind the sloop and cargo were
adjudged to belawful recaption on the high seas, and
ordered-to be restored, On paying to the recaptors -one
full eighth part of the value of the sloop and cargo for
salvage, with full costs ; and to ascertain the value it
was further ordered, that the sloop and'cargo should
be forthwith sold by th claimants, unless the value
should be otherwise agreed upon. The sloop was insured for 3,800 dollars, and sold for 915 dollars'; the
coffee sold for 1,000 dollars ; and the costs, charges,
-and commissions, amounted to 909 dollars, 'which almost absorbed the sum for which the sloop was sold.
It is not found, that the sloop had sustained 'no damage
by the capture :nd recapture ; and, considering the
difference between 3,800 dollars, 'the value insur'd,
and 909 dollars, the price for which-she sold, the jury
might, without other evidence, have presumed, that
she had received considerable injury. From these
facts taken togethler, the inference is rational and juist,
that the voyage was broke up and destroyed, and that
the underwriters were liable fdr a total and not for an
average lobs. To repel this. inference, and remove
responsibility fromithe insurerq, it has been urged in
argument, that the agents for the Tuckers were. guilty
of gross negle'ct and misconduct. If Bryan & Co.
ceased to be, agents after the sailinsr of the sloop, then

I".

SUPREMECOURT U. S.

IN. CO. the captain bebine. lpathed with an implied authority
ALXv- to do what was ' fit'andright,
and most cbnduclve for
e ek
o all
l the
h
Ir. the interest and benefit'of
concerned; and,
. AWD J. ,H. theief~re, whether the agency of Bryan & Co. contiTUCKZE.
nued, or, bei-ng at an end, devolved by operation of
!law on the captain, is perfectly immaterlal; for the
question still recurs, whether the actdual or implied
agent had been guilty of fraud, negligence, or other
improper conduct, which would exonerate the insurers.
I am not al~ieto discern any misconduct on the part of
the agent, that would exculpate the underwriters, and
prevent their being responsible for a total loss. And
indeed, this was a point -proper for the decision of
the jury, agreeably to the case of Milks v. Fletcher, in
Doug. 230 ; and, therefore, thq exception taken to the
opinion of the court was not, well-founded. The sloop
could not be sold at private sale, and, by reason of the
capture andxecapture, she might have sustained consi4eraole damage. To sell the coffee," which constituted the cirgo for Alexandria, to satisfy'th e salvage
and casts,' would have been an, imprudent.measure ;
for the redemption would, have absorbed the whole
proceeds, and then she would have returned to AleNaidria without a 6argo, as the captain had no funds to
purchase one; and besides, she must bave sailed without.a register, which Would have exposed her to greqt
and unnecessary danger. Prudence dictated the sale
as a safe step, and most for the benefit bf the con,

MA.

vp

DRIA

'cerned.

'The error set forth in the third bill of 'exception'is,
that the court below refused to instruct the jury, that
the loss pf the register, by means of the capture and
recapture, was not sufficient, in law, to defeat the
yoyage from Kingston to Alexandria, and might have
been supplied by sjiecial documents. Though the register did not impar any physical ability to the sloop,
in regard t her sailing; yet,-itwas a document ivhich
tended to communicate safety, as, it designated hlr
character, individually and natibnally. It is a necessary paper, and operates as a national passp't ;for,
without it, she might be seized -as an unailthorised
rover on the ocean, and in c'ertain cases, would have
seen iable th confiscation. The register is a docu.j

FEBRUARY, 1806.

397

and important nature, that its M. I.X Co.
ment of-such a specialmade
:up by other official papers
fully
loss canot
DIA
-be
v.
It would have been a very imprudent step for the
captain to have procdeded on his voyage without a re- I. AD J. IL
gister; if he had, he would have been justly cha'rged TuczEu.
with improvidence, negligence, and culpable miscon-.
duct.
CUSHING, J. I consider this as cle.1ly a case of intentional, not actual deviation ; but not as a case of noninception of the voyage insured.
This is proved by a number of cases cited; and contradicted by none.
What a case ot non-inception is, is shown by the case
of' 1?ooldridge v. Boydell, Douglass, 116,

where the

ship was insured'from Maryland to Cadiz, having no intention at all of going there ; but that 'is totally different
from the present case, where the vessel was cleared out
at Jamaica for Alexandria, with a cargo taken, in for
Alexandria, and intended to go there.
It is true sugars were taken in for BqItimore, and the
captain intended goiiig there first. That amounts only
to an intent to deviate ; but no deviation unless executed.
This is proved by divers authorities. .3liddlewoodan,
Blakes, 7 T. R. p. 162, B. R. a ship insured at and fr6m

London to Jamaica, and the captain, had orders (exactly
like the case at the bar) to touch at Cape Nicola Mole,
to land stores, pursuant to charter-party. Upon which,
one of the judges (Lawrence) gave an opinion, that if the
vessel had been caiitured before she came to the dividing
point, between the northern and southern courses to
Jamaica, the insurers would have been liable.
And the other judges agreeing with judge Lawrence,
to lay the-whole stress of the cause in favour of the insurer, upon the captain's not exercising his.judgment at
the time, upon which was the best and safest of the three
courses, (whose judgment the insurers had a right to
have the benefit of) but taking the northern course,
merely in pursuance of orders, to land stores at Cape
Nicola Mole. All this shows, that had the captain exer-

SUPREME COURT U. S.
IN. Co. cised his judgment in going the northern course, as being
the best and safest, the whole court would have held the
insurer hable, as the vessel was captured befbre she came

19A.
or ALEXANIA

J. ANDp J.
Tucixsn.

H.

to the dividing point, between the course to the Cape
and tc6 Jamaica.
Another case, more direct and decisive, is Foster v.
Wilmer, 2 Str. 1248, 9, where the ship was insured from.
Carolina to Lisbon and to Bristol, and the captain took
in salt to deliver at Falmouth, before going to Bristol,
repugnant to the specification of the policy, yet being
captured before arriving at the dividing point" between
Falmouth and Bristol, the insurer was held liable, which
seems exactly the present case.
The mere taking in goods for another-port, does not,
of itself, make adeviation. It may, however, if it materially vary the risk, and be a circumstance designedly
concealed and suppressed, excuse the underwriters. In
the present case it does not appear, mterially, to vary
the risk, any more than in taking in stores to land at
Capp Nicola Mole, in the- case of M2ddlewood and
Bluhes, varied the risk, which was not suggested by court
or counsel, that it did ; or the taking in salt to land at
Falmoitli. in the case of Foster and Wilmer, It did ndt
delay the voyage in the present case ; the vessel sailed
with convoy as soon as it was ready, and was afterwards
captured in the proper course, before deviating.
The award may be laid out of the case, for more reasons than one. I think it.void for uncertainty.
As to. the loss, whether total or average, the jury, who
had the whole evidence before them, have, in effect, found
a total loss, and the voyage broken up. It is not certified by the court, that the bill of exceptions contains the
whole evidence; and as strong circumstances (I think
conclusive ones) are stated, that show the voyage could
not be safely pursued, or could not be pursued at all, in
consequence of the loss of register and loss of hands by
the capture, either of which, it does not appear, could be
supplied, I think we are not warranted to overrule the
verdict, or reverse the judgment.

Judgment affirmed.

