448
MANiLLA,

-

SUPREME COURT U. S.
Upon the other part of the exceptions, the price given

PUJALSV.& Co. for the tobacco, it is unnecessary to say more, that

J. BARR-r.

that

there is no error in the opinion of the court.
Affirmed.

EX PARTE BURFORD
Ex PARTE
BURFOR D.

A warrant of

JOHN ATKINS BURFORD, a prisoner confined

commitment

in the jail of the county of Alexandria, in the district of

oath.
,y

the United States, and praying for a certiorarito the

by justices of
Columbia, petitioned this court for a habeas corpus, to
the peace,
must state a, inquire into the cause of his commitment, alleging
cer- that he was confined under and by colour of process of
g.od cause
rain,
supplorted

clerk of the circuit court of the district of Columbia,
for the county of Washington, to certify the record by
which his cause of commitment might be examined,
and its legality investigated. To thew petition Vim annexed a copy of his commitment, certified by the jailor
of Alexandria county.
Hiort, for the petitioner, observed, that he was
aware of the decision of this court in the case of Marbury v. Aadison, ante, vol. 1, that a mandamus would
not lie in this co-.rt wheti it operated as an oriqinal
process ;"but there is a vast difference between a mandamus and a writ of habeas corpus. The former is a
high prerogative writ,. issuing at the discretion of the
court, but this is a writ of right, and cannot be refused.
The constitution of the United States, art. 1, ยง 9, de.
clars, "that it shall not be suspended, unless when -in
cases of rebellion or invasion, the public safety may
require it."
By the 14th section of the judiciary act of 1789, vol.
1, p. 58, it is enacted, " that all the before mentioned
courts of the United States," (including the supreme
court) " shall have power to issue writs of scirefatas,

FEBRUARY, L806.
habeas corpus, and all other writs," &c. 11 And that
either of the justices of the supreme court, as well as
judges of the district courts, shall have power to grant
-writs of habeas corpus, for the purpose of an inquiry
,into the cause of commitment." If a single justice of
this court has the power, it would be a strange con.
struction of the law, and of the constitution, to say
that the whole court cannot exercise the same power.
The reason why this court could not exercise its
appellate jurisdiction in a criminal case, was stated in
the case of the UnitedStates v. More, ante, p. 159, to be
because no mode of exercising it had been appointed
bylaw, the writ of error extending only to civil cases.
But if this is an exercise of its appellate jurisdiction,
the mode by habeas corpus is expressly provided by
the statute, for that purpose.
March 4.
MARSHALL, Ch. J. There is some obscurity in
the act of congress, and some doubts were entertained
by the court as to the construction of the constitution.
the court, however, in favour of liberty, was willing
to grant the habeas corpus. But the case of the United
States v. Hamilton, 3 Dal. 17', is decisive. It was there
determined that this court could grant a habeas corpus;
therefore, let the writ issue, returnable immediately,
.together with a certiorari, as prayed.

Upon the return of the habeas corbus, and certiorari,
it appeared, that on the 28th of December, 1805, Burford was committed to the jail of Alexandria- county,
by a warrant under the hands and seals of Jonah
Thompson, and ten other justices of the peace for that
county; which warrant was in the following words:
Alexandria County, ss.
WMyhereas John A. Burford, of the county aforesaid,
shopkeeper, has been brought before a meeting of many
of the justices of the peace for the said county, and by
them was required to find sufficient sureties to be bound
VOL IIL.

1M

EX AxArT
Beaitorw.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
Ex

PARTIZ

't1RFORD.

with him in a recognizance, himself in the sum offour
thousand dollars, and securities for the like sum, for
his good behaviourtowards the citizens of the United
States, and their property ; and whereas the said John
A. Burford hath failed or refused to find such sureties;
these are therefore in the name of the United States,
to command you the said constables, forthwith to convey the said John- A. Burford to the common jail of
the said county, and to delivei him to the keeper
thereof, together with this precept; and we do, in the
name of the said United States, hereby command you,
the said keeper, to receive the said John A. Burford
into your custody, in the said jail, and him there safely
keep, until he shall find such sureties as aforesaid, or
be otherwise discharged by due course of law. Given
under our hands and seals, this 28th day of December,
1805.

To any constable, and the jailor of the
county of Alexandria.
On the 4th of January, 1806, the circuit court of
the district of Columbia, sitting in the county of Washington, upon the petition of Burford, granted a habeas
corpus, and upon the return, the marshal certified, in
addition to the above warrant of commitment, that
Burford was apprehendedby warrant, under the hands
and seals of Jonah Thompson, and thirteen other justices of the county of Alexandria, a copy of which he
certifies to be on file in his office, and is as follows:
Alexandria County, ss.
The undersigned.justices of the United States, assigned to keep the peace within the said county, to the
marshal of the district, and all and singular the constables, and other officers of the said county, Greeting :
Forasmuch as we are given to understand, from the
information, testimony and complaint of, many credible
persons, that John A. Burford, of the said county,
shop-keeper, is not ofgoodname andfame, nor of honest
conversation, but an evil doer and disturber of the

FEBRUARY, 1806.

451

peace of the United States, so that murder, homicide, EX PA.:
strifes, discords, and other grievances and damages, BunroaD.
amongst the citizens of the United States, concerning
their bodies and property, are likely to arise thereby,
Therefore, on the behalf of the United States, we command you, and every of you, that you omit not, by
reason-of any liberty within the county aforesaid, but
that you attach, or one of you do attach, the body of
the aforesaid John Ai Burford, so that you have him
before us, or other justices of the said county, as soon
as -he can be taken, to find and offer sufficient surety
and mainprizefor his good behaviour towards the said
United States, and thp citizens thereof; according to
the forin of-the statute in such case made and provided.
And this you shall in no wise omit, on the peril that
shall ensue thereon, and have you before us this precept. Given under our hands and seals, in the county
aforesaid, this 21st day of December, 1805.
The circuit court, upon hearing, remanded the pri.
soner to jail, there to remain until he should enter into
a recognizance for his good behaviour for one year,
himself in the sum of 1,000 dollars, and-sureties in the
like sum.
Miort, for the prisoner, contended, that the commit.
ment was illegal, both under the constitution of Virginia, and that of the United States. It does not state
a cause certain, supportedby oath.
By the 10th article of the bill of rights, of Virginia,
it is declared, that all warrants to seizt- any ptrso.n
whose offence is not particularly described, and supported by evidence, are grievous and oppressive, and
ought not to be granted.
By the 6th article of the amendments to the constitution of the United States, it is dedaredI that on
warrants shall issue but upon probable cause, supported
by oath or afirmation."

4,2
MEi iAR-i

Bual~oal.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

By the 8th article it is declared, that in all criminal
prosecutions, the prisoner shall enjoy the right to be
informed of the nature and cause of hie accusation, and
to be confronted with the witnesses against him ; and
the loth article declares, that excessive bail shall not
be required.
In the present case, the marshal's return, so far as it
stated the warrant upon which Burford was arrested
and carried before the justices, was perfectly immaterial. He did not complain of that arrest, but of his
commitment to prison. The question is, what authority has thejailor to detain him ? To ascertain this, we
must look to the warrant of commitment only. It is
that only which can justify his detention. That warrant states no offence. It does not allege that he was
convicted of any crime. It states merely that he had
been brought before a meeting of many justices, who
had required him to find sureties for his good behaviour. It does not charge him of their own knowledge, or suspicion, or upon the oath of any person
whomsoever.
It does not allege that witnesses were examined in
his presence, or any other matter whatever, which can
be the ground of their order to find sureties. If the
charge against him was malicious, or grounded on
perjury, whom could he sue for the malicious prosecution ? or whom could he indict for perjury ?
There ought to have been a conviction of his being
a person of ill fame. The fact ought to have been
established by testimony, and the names of the wit.
nesses stated. Boscawen on C.nvictions, 7, 8, 10, 16,
110. Salh. 181.

But the order was oppressive, inasmuch aa it re.
quired sureties in the enormous sum of 4,000 dollars,
for his guod behaviourfor life.
If the prisoner had broken jail, it would have beeu
no escape, ftr the marsbal is not answerable, unless a
cause certain be contained in the warrant, 2 Inst. 52, 53,
and the reason given by Blackstone, I Corn. 137, why

FEBRUARY, 1806.

453

the warrant must state the cause of commitment, is, Ex Pu^r.
that it may be examined into upon habeas corpus. And BvnuonD.
in vol. 4,p. 256, speaking of the power of a justice to
require sureties for good behaviour, he says, " But if
he commits a man for want of sureties, he must express
the cause thereof with convenient certainty, and tahe
care that such cause be a good one. Rudyard's case, 2
Vent. 22.
.S'wann, on the same side, was informed .by the court,
that he ni~ed not say any thing as to the original commitment by the justices, but might confine his observations to the re-commitment by the circuit court, upon
the hdbeas corpus.
He observed, that the circuit court did not reverse
nor annul the original proceeding by the magistrates.
It ofily diminished the sum in whiqh bail should be required, and limited its duration to one year. It passed
no new judgment, but merely remanded the prisonerit heard no evidence-it was not a proceeding de novoit gave no judgment-it convicted the prisoner of no
offence. He is, therefore,, still detained under the
authority of the warrant of the justices ; and if that is
defective, there is no just cause of detainer. But if
the remanding by the circuit court is to be considered
as a new commitment, it is itill a commitment upon
the old ground; and if that was illegal, the order of
the circuit court has not cured itg illegality.
The Yudges of this court were unanimously of opinion, that the warrant of commitment was illegal, for
want of stating sonc good cause certain, supported by
oath. If the circuit cdurt had proceeded de novo, perhaps it might have made a difference. But this court
is of opinion, that that court has gone only upon the
proceedings before the justices. It has gone so far as
to correct two of the errors committed, but the rest
remain. If the prisoner is really a person of ill famn
nd ought to find sureties for his good behaviour, the
justices may proceed de novo, and take care that their
proceedings are regular.
The prisoner is discharged.

