FEBRUARY, 1806.

uulled ; and that the defendant pay to the plaintiff, his
costs. And the cause is remanded for further proceedings.

WI LSO

t

V.

BuDDICUnt

BUDDICUM v. KIRK.

V.

Notice of tile
timeandplaca
ERROR to the circuit court of the district of Co. of
taking a
lumbia, in an action of debt against the defendant, as deposition,
heir at law of the obligor, of a bond dated the 20th given to the
of September, 1774, conditioned to pay 9941. 3s. 5d. attorney at latr
the oppo.
Virginia currency, in equal instalments, at six and of
site party, is
twelve months from the date of the bond.
not such no-

The defendant being an infant, pleaded by Archibald M'Lain, his guardian.

tice as is required by the
act of assembly of Virginia. But
tilae attorney

1. Payient; to which there was a general replicaat law may
tion and issue.
agree to receive, or to

2. That after the execution of the bond, viz. on the wvaive notice,
shell not
day of
1784, at, &c. it was ac- and
aft/rwards be
corded and agreed, between the plaintiff and the said permitted to
James Kirk, (the obligor) in his life-time, that the allege the
of it.
said James Kirk should assign, and make over to the want
If notice be
plaintiff, all the balances of money due to the said ven, that a
James Kirk, and one Josiah Moffett, arising from a position
store kept by them in partnership, in the town of Lees- wilbbe taken
on the 8th of
burgh, in discharge and satisfaction of the said bond ; August, and
and that the said James Kirk did afterwards, on the that if not
day and year last mentioned, at the town aforesaid, taken in one
the
pursuant to the said accord and agreement, assign, and day,
commissionmake over to the plaintiff, all the aforesaid balances, era will adand the plaintiff did then and there receive the said journ from
assignment and transvfer of the said balances, in satis- day to day un.
til it shall be
faction for the said bond, and this he is ready to veri- finished; and
fy, &c.
the commissioners meet

This plea was adjudged bad on general demurrer.

na the Stb

SUPREME COURT U. S.
BvnDncum

V.
KIRK.

andadjourn
from day to
day till the
12th, and

3. " That after the execution of the said writing
obligatory, the plaintiff, by his certain deed of release,
with his seal sealed, which said deed is lost and destroy.
ed by time and accident, did release and discharge the
said James, in his life-time, anad his heirs, of and from
the payment of the said writing obligatory, that is to

day of
from the 12th say, on the
to the 19th, at the county aforesaid,

in the year 1784,
and this he is ready to

when theisde- verify."
position
taken, such
deposition is
To which plea, there was a general replication and
not taken
issue.
agreeably to
notice.
Upon the trial, the jury found both the issues of
Upon the
plea of pay- fact for the defendant, and the plaintiff took two bills
ment, to debt of exceptions.
on bond, it is
competent for

the defendant
1. The first stated, that the defendant offered in
to give in evi- evidence, the deposition of Patrick Cavan, tending to
dence, that

-thcatwas delivered to the
plaintiff; on
acountofth
e
bond,
ata certain price ;

prove, that -wheat, to the amount of 166. 8s. lod. had
been delivered by the obligor to the plaintiff, on account of the bond, and sundry debts due to Kirk and
Moffett,
had been assigned to the plaintiff in full disfftasgepliif

charge of the bond ; and that the plaintiff had indulged
and that the some of the debtors until the debts were barred by the
defendant as. statute of limitations.

That notice was given to the

s1gned sundry
debts to the
plaintiff, part

plaintiff's attorney, that the deposition would be tiken
on the 8th of August, 1801, and if not taken in one day,
of wvhich
that the commissioners would adjourn from day to day
were collectuntil it should be finished, and that he ,agrecdthat It
ed by the
plaintiff, and might be taken on that day, whether he attended or
partlost
by his not ; but did not assent or object, !ootrengtkno
to its being taken on
.inddgence
'egligence.
any other day. That tie commissioners, to whom the
An assign- dedimus was directed,
mentofdehts, 1801, and adjourned to

•nd balances the 10th to the lth,

met on the 8th of August,
Monday the 10th, and from

from the l1th to the 12th, and

of accounts

from the 12th to the 19th, when the deposition was
cannot be
pleaded as an taken.
That the plaintiff's attorney did not attend on
acordand
sa- the 8th, or an
tigfaetion toY
in action of
debt on a
bond.

of the other days, and had no notice

of the zeveral adjournments.
That 'the defendant also offered to nrove bv Archi-

bald M 'Lain, that the plaintiff's attorney, after the
deposition was taken, read it, but did not then object

FEBRUARY, 1806.

295

to its being read in evidence; and that the said
Patrick Cavan died before the trial. To the reading
of this deposition, the plaintiff objected, but the court
suffered it to be read.
2. The 2d bill of exceptions stated, that the plaintiff
prayed the court to instruct the jury, that the defendant was not entitled, on the plea of payment, to discount the bonds and notes assigned to the plaintiff, as
mentioned in the deposition of Cavan, unless it should
appear to the jury that the same had been collected by
the plaintiff; which instruction the court refused to
give, but directed the jury, that the deposition was
competent evidence to be offered in proof of a discount
on the plea of payment.
E.

J.

Lee, for the plaintiff in error, contended,

1. That the deposition was irregularly taken, inasmuch as a notice to take a deposition on the 8th, is
not notice to take it on the 19th; and although notice
was given, that if the deposition was not taken on the
8th, the commissioners would adjourn from day to day,
vet in this case, they adjourned over from the 12th to
the 19th, without giving new notice. Besides, the
notice in this case is to the attorney at law, and not to
an attorney in fact. If it be said, that an attorney at
law may bind his client, by an agreement relative to
any matter in the proceedings, or trial of a cause, yet,
the asseht of the attorney only went tQ the taking the
deposition on the 8th of August, and not on any subsequent day.
2. It was not competent for the defendant to prove
that assent, by the testimony of Archibald M'Lain, who
was his guardian of record, and answerable for costs.
3. The matter contained in the deposition, was not
competent evidence upon either of the issues. It certainly was not evidence of a release under seal.; and
the assignment would not be a payment, unless it produced the mon'ey to the plaintiff., If any thing but
money is relied upon as satisfaction of a bond, it must
be pleaded by way of accord and satisfaction. and not

BUDDICUI.

V.

-SUPREME COURT U. S.
BUDrI(Ic.m

V.

as payment. One bond cannot be pleaded in discharge
of aother, a fortiori cannot an assignment of a bond.
I Burr. 9, Rhodes v. Barnes.
Simms-, for the defendant.
1. If the plaintiff had not notice of the time of taking the deposition, it was his own fault, or that of his
attorney. The attorney, having received and acknowledged notice for the 8th of August, was bound to attend ; and if he had attended, he would, of course, have
had notice of the adjournment. This want of notice'
therefore, is to be attributed to his own negligence.
But if the notice was insufficient, the court, under the
circumstances of the case, did not err in admitting the
deposition. When the plaintiff's attorney rend the deposition, he did not object. By his silence he lulled
the defendant into security, at a time, when, if the objection had been made, he might have corrected the
mistake, by giving new notice, and taking the deposition de novo. But instead of that, he concealed his
objection until the deponent was dead, and when he
knew that the defendant would totally lose the benefit
of his testimony. In such a case the court will say,
that the silence of the attorney, when he read the deposition, was a waiver of the notice.
2. As to the second

objection, that Archibald

M'Lain was not a competent witness, because he was
the guardian of the defendant. It does appear upon
the record, that the witness was the same Archibald
M'Lain, who was the guardian. And besides, it appears, that before the trial the defendant himself was
of age, and had leave to appear by attorney.
S. As to the objection, that the matter of the depo,sition was not competent evidence on the issues. The
court did not say it was complete'proof of payment,
but that it was matter proper to be left to the jury upon
the plea of payment, and from which a paynient might
be infcrred.

FEBRUARY, 1806.

297

March 1.

BPiDnIcu
V.

MARSHALL,

Ch. J. delivered the opinion of the

court to the following effet:
This case comes up on two bills of exceptions.
1st. As to the notice of taking the deposition; and,
2a. As to its applicability.
1. As to the notice. There are two modes of taking
depositions under the act of Congress. By the first,
notice in certain cases is not necessary, but the forms
prescribed must be strictly pursued. This deposition
is not taken under that part of the act. By a subsequent part of the section, depositions may be taken by
dedimnus potestatetn, according to common usage. The
laws of Virginia, therefore, are to be referred to on
the subject of notice. Those laws do not authorise
notice to an attorney at law.
'he word attorney, in
the act of assembly, means attorney in fact.. An-attorney at law is not compellable to receive notice; but he
may consent to receive, or he may waive i't, and sh U1
not afterwards be permitted to object the want of it.
But this deposition was not taken agreeably to the no.
tice 'received. The commissioners did not adjourn
fioma day to day, but passed over the intermediate time
between the 12th and the 19th of August.
This circumstance, however, is not, by the court,
deemed fatal, under the particular circumstances of this
case, though withpui those circumstances it 'might,
perhaps, be so considered. The agreement, that the
deposition might- be taken, whether the attorney were
present or absent; his subsequent 'xamination of the
deposition, without -objecting to the wanE of notice,
and the death of the witness, were sufficient grounds
for the defendant to believe, that the objection would
be waived.
2. The objection to the competency of M'Lain, is
totally unfounded, as itdoes not appear, upon the reVoL III.

q

SUPREME COURT U. S.

29S
BtUDDrcum
V.
KzIRK.

cord, that he was. the guardian; and especially, as
the defendant became of full age, lefore the trial.
3. The objection to the applicability of the deposition, is also void of foundation. For, although it was
not conclusive evidence, it was still admissible.
The court is, therefore, of opinion7 that there is no
error in the judgment below.
Judgment affirmed.

DoUGLAsT

DOUGLASS &"MANDEVILLE v. M'ALLISTER.

AND MANDE-

VILLE

V.
MWALLIS-

TER.
ERROR to the circuit court of the district of Co
The court, lumbia, in an action of assumpsit, for not delivering

upon a jury- flour according to contract.
trial, isbound

to
give an
opinion, if re-

The transcript of the record contained, a bill of cx-

quired, apon ceptions, which stated, that the plaintiff offered in evianypoinrele- dence the following writing, addressed by the plaintiff

vant to the
issue.

below, to the defendants, the present plaintiffs in error,

In estimat- VIZ-

ing damages
for the breach
of a contract

to deliver

" Will you receive my flour on the following terms,

viz. Whenever a load of flQur is delivered, should any

flour, the jury cooperage be wanting, you charge it to the waggoner,

are to ascer- and deduct it from the carriage. You will credit me
tain the value
of the flour on with the highest market price at the time of delivery,
the day when and note it on the receipt ; and any balance of flour
the
cause of that may remain in your hands unpaid as it is delivaction
Sen arose.
.
ered, you will pay me when I send for it,, or deliver as
much flour as is coming to me, at my option. It is
understood, that in case the flour is delivered, storage
is to be allowed or charged at sixpence per barrel." Agreed. Given uder our hands,
April 27th, 1803..
(Signed)

Alexandria,

DOUGLASS & MANDEVILLE;

JouN 1'4'ALLISTER."

