SUPREME COURT U. S.
Rt~v

V.
Lw

The court, however, is of opinion, that'a decree for a
sale under, a mortgage, is such a final decree V may be
appealed from. We suppose, that when the court below
understands that to be our opinion, it will allow an appeal, if it be a case to which this opinion'applies.

LEVY v. GADSBY,
LzvyV.
G.& DSBY.

If A lend
money to B,
who puts it
out at usurious interest,
and agrees to
pay to A the
same rate of
interest
which he is

ERROR to the circuit court of the district of Co.

lumbia, sitting at Alexandria.

This was artaction of assumpsit, by Levy, the indorsee of a promissory note, against Gadsby, payee
and i:,dorsor of M'Intosh's note.

The declaration consisted of three counts. The I at,
receiving up- in addition to the common averments, alleged, that the
on A's money, plaintiff had brought suit upon the note against M'In.
this is usury
between -4 tosh, in Maryland, and recovered judgment, but that
and B, and before execution made M'Intosh died insolvent. The
an indorsor of 2d count was in the usual form, excepting that it al.
B'& note to
.A,may avail leged that Gadsby, became liable by the custom Of
himself of the merchants. The 3d count was for money had and reThe defendant pleaded, 1st. Non assumpsit.
pleanf
Ifthe usury.
usury ceived.
be sperialy 2d. As to the first count, usury between M'Intosh and
pleaded, and Levy, stating the transaction as a loan, by the latter to
the court re- the former. 3d. As to the first count, usury between
ject the evi- the same parties, stating tie'transaction as a forbeardence oflhred
ance of an antecedent debt. The 4th and 5th were
upon such
specitl

plea,

like pleas of usury to the 2d count.

The 3d and 5th

it mtw be ad- pleas, by mistake, alleged the note given, in pursuance
mitted upon

O

issue, not-

to M'lh"ogh, and by him indorsed to Levy ; whereas,
the note in the declaration mentioned, was a note made
by M'Intosh to Gadsby, anti byhim indorsed to Levy.

the geneol

withstanding
itbas been refused upon
the special

plea.-

o the corrupt agreement, to be a note made by Gadsby

To the pleas of usury, there were general replications
and is':ues, and a general verdict for the defendant. On

FEBRUARY, 1805.

181

y
1he trial three bills of exception were taken by the'plain-

tiff.

Lzwv
V.
GAnsnY.

1st. The first stated, that the plaintiff gave in eviexdence, a promissory note in the usual form, dated No- hasThethecourt
vember'l, 1797, whereby M'Intosh, six months after clasie power
date, promised to pay to GadsbV, or ordeFr 1,4,36 dol- or deciding
lars; 62 cents, for value received, negotiable at the whether a
Iwritten
conbank of Alexandria. And it was proved that Levy rct be usnand M'Intosh carried on trade and commerce in co- rious.
partnership, under the name and firm of Levy and
M'Intosh, at Alexandria, Levy residing at Georgetown, about 8 miles distant from Alexandria. 1 hat they
socntinued to carry on trade and commerce from sometime in the year 1796, till the 12th day'of November,
1797, on which, day the partnership was dissolved; and
that the dissolution was advertised in the public papers,
on the t9th of October, 1797, to take place on the said*
12th day of November, 1797. And the defendant,
to support-the issues on his part, offered in evidence,
a paper in the hand-writing of. the plaintiff, and by him
subscribed, as follows:
"Georgetown, November 9th, 1797. *Received of
Mr.. John MlIntosh, his two notes, one payable to John
Gadsby for fourteen hundred and thirty-six dollars,
sixty-two cents, dated the first instant, negotiable at the
bank of Alexandria, at six months after date, indorsed
by said Gadsby; the other to Thomas J. Beatty, of
same date, at three months after date, for twelve
Ihundred and seventy dollars, eighty-seven cents,
'negotiable- at the bank of- Columbia, and indorsed by
said Beatty. The two notes making the sum of two
thousand seven hundred and seven dollars, fortynine cents, which, when paid, is on account of money
due me from the firm of Levy and MlIntosh, equal to
two thousand two hundred and ten dollars, twenty-four

cents, asby their account, handed me by said M'In.
tosh, dated October, 23d, 1797 ; and as the said M'In.
tosh agrees, he is receiving an interest eqtual tothe
difference, twixt the sum due me, as per their account
current, and the notes payable,. he, therefore, allows
me the same interest as the on- he is receiving for my
money.

Therefore, or a settlement ef acconts, I am

SUPREME COURT U. S.
L,v

V.

GADVSI3 Y.

only to stand debited for twenty-two hundred and teln
dollars, twenty-four cents, 92,210 24 due as per account current; 9497 25 interest ; .2,707 49.
N. LEvY."
The plaintiff's counsel objected to the said writing
being given in evidence by the defendant, on the pleas
of usury, and the court refused to permit it to go in
evidence on those pleas. The plaintiff's counsel then
objected to its going in evidence on the general issue of'
non assumpsit, but upon that issue, the court admitted
it.
2d. The 2d bill of exceptions, after repeating the
same facts, states, that the plaintiff's counsel prayed the
opinion of the court, and their instruction to the jury,
whether 'the circumstances given in evidence as aforesaid, amounted to proof of an usurious contract between Levy and M'Intosh ; and the court, thereupon,
instructed the jury, that those circumstances did
amount to proof of an usurious contract between those
parties.
3d. The 3d bill of exceptions was to the opinion of
the court, that the agreement mentioned in the receipt
given by Levy to M'Intosh, having been read in evidence, and having been, by the court, declared an usurious agreement, the note given in pursuance thereo),
is void, and that the plaintiff is not entitled to recover
thereon, against the defendant, in the present action.
Swann and Sinms, for plaintiff in error.

C. Lee

.Mfason, and 7ones, for defendant.
The questions arising in this case are,
1st. Whether the 'court befow wbs correct in in.
structing the jury, that the agreement contained in
Levy's receipt, was usurious.
2d. Whether that receipt was admissible in evidence upon the is'sue of non assum'psit; and
3d. Whether it was admissible upon either of the
other issues.

FEBRUARY, 1805.
Swan, for plaintiff in error.

183

1. As to the usury.

The court below undertook to say, that the agreement

and other circumstances, amounted to conclusive proof k
of usury, when it ought to have been left to the jury,
under all the circumstances of the case, to say whether
the contract was usurious or not.
There appears to have been a partnership in usury,
between Levy and M'Iitosli. During that partnership,
.M'Intoshhad loaned Lev)'s m6ney at usury, and on
the 23d of October, 1797, was indebted to Levy in
the sum of 2,210 dollars, 24 cents, for money thus
lent out at 3 and 6 months. And being satisfied that
he should receive that money at those periods, he was
willing to bind himself absolutely to pay it over to
Levy, whose money it in truth was. This, we say,
is the true construction of the receipt. It is no more
than the case of an ageht binding himself to pay over,
at a particular time, the money of his principal, which
shall at that time be in his hands.
To constitute usury under the act of assembly, Revised
Code of Virginia, p. 37 there must be either a loan of
money, or forbearance of a debt already due. In this
case there was neither a loan from Levy to M'Intosh,
nor a debt due from M'Intosh to Levy. Cowper, 115,
Floyer v. Edwards. A note given without consideration is not usurious. M'Intosh was to receive the money at a certain time, and pay it over to Levy. This is
the whole of the contract. He only bound himself expressly to do what, in equity and conscience, he ought to
do. At the time the notes were given, if Levy had sued
M'Intosh for the money, it would have been a sufficient
"iswer to say that M1'Intosh had not received it.
If I authorise a man to lend 1,000 dollars of my money
on usury for my benefit, and he does so, and has received
500 dollars for such usury, can I not compel him to pay
it over to me? This is really the only question upon the
merits of this case; and this seems to be decided by the
case of Faikney v. Reynous, 4 Burr. 2069, and that of
Peirie v. Hannay, 8 T. R. 418, in which it was held

that if two be engaged in a. transaction illegal, but not
.malum in se, and one of them pay the whole money, he

LEvV
V.

G

184
Lrvy
V.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

may recover a proportion from the other, if this 'other
has expressly promised to pay it. From hence it may
be inferred, that although the original transaction betw-en
M'Intosh and the person to whom he lent the money on
usury was illegal, and although Levy knew all- the circumstances, and assented to the transaction, yet, inasmuch as it was not malum in se, and M'Intosh agreed to
pay over the money to Levy when received, the illegality
of the original transaction shall not discharge M'lntosh
from such agreement, or render it void.
Simms, on the same side. An objection was nade in
the court below, to allowing usury to be given in cvidence on the plea of non assumpsit, but it was overruled
by the court. If there had been rio other plea, perhaps
the question would be doubtful; but when the defendant
has pleaded usury in a particular way, he ought not to
be permitted to resort to a different kind of usury. Tate
v. Wellings, 3 T. R. 538. It tends to surprise and entrap the plaintiff.
C. Lee, contra.
Ist. Whether usury can be given in evidence on noim
assumpsit.
Every thing which goes to show that the contract is
v6id, may be given in evidence on that plea ; for if the
promise was void when made, then, in law, it was no
promise. Str. 498, Bernard v. Saul. F Str. 733, Burrows v. Yemino. 1 Esp. Rep. 178.
There being two special pleas of usury rilkes no difference, the court having been of opinion that the evidence
did not support those pleas.
2d. As to the construction of the agreement. If the
usury is reserved for forbearance of a debt already due,
it is the same thing as if reserved on an original loan.
I Call, 74, 81, Gibson v. Fristoe. And it-makes no difference whether the usurious interest is stated to be received from others or not. Usury is not to be cotred
by such devises as that. It is only an indirect way of
receivin& the usury.

FEBRUARY, Iaos.
No argument can'make the transaction plainer, than it
is stated in the receipt itself. Res ipsa loquitur,
Mason, on'the same side. There can be no ground
for the plaintiff to allege surprise in the admission of the
receipt as evidence on the general- issue. The special
pleas set forth precisely the same facts, and nothing but a
blunder in copying the pleas, and inserting the name of
Mlntosh for Gadsby, preventedthe evidence from being
admitted on those pleas.
The agreement is, that as M'tntosh is receiving usury
from others, therefore he will pay it to the plaintiff. If
the debtor receives usury from his debtors, it is no justification of the creditor in demanding from him.
There is no evidence that the partnership of Levy and
M'Intosh was a partnership in usury.
The receipt does not directly aver that 4'lIntosh is
receiving the rate of interest mentioned. It only states
that he agrees he is receiving it. A man may a're to a
false statement of facts ; and, indeed, that is alwvays thc
case, when usury is attempted to be covered.
Yones, on the same side. The evidence offered was
not only applicable to the general issue, but to the firstspecial plea of usury. The-agreement shows it to be a
loan in the sense of the statute.
No precedent can be found of a plea of usury Which
does-not state it as a loan.
The cases cited do not apply. The agreement itself
does not state it to be accounting for profits received.
But M'Intosh gives an absolute note for the payment of
money, although it is agreed that it is outatanding.
The question i§ upon a written agreement, and the con.
etruction of all such agreements is e~eclusivcly with the
court.
Vol. IIL
b

Lzvr
V.

GA r ia r

SUPREME COURT U. S.
Lpvv

March 4.

V.
GADS9Y.

MARSHALL,

Ch. J. 'delivered the opinion of the

court.
It was slightly contended by the counsel for the plaintiff
in error, that when usury has been specially pleaded, and
the evidence adduced to support such plea has been adjudged by the court to be inapplicable to the facts so
pleaded, the same evidence cannot be admitted upon the
plea of non assumpsit. No cases in support of this position have been cited, and it does not appear to be supported' by reasoning from analog).
In cases wherc there are
special and general counts it) a declaration, and the evidence does not support the special count§, the plaintiff is
allowed to apply the same evidence in support of the general counts. On a parity of reasoning, the defendant
should be permitted to give in evidence upon the plea of
non assumpsit, the same facts which were adjudged inapplicable to the special pleas, but which might have been
received on the general plea, if the special pleas had not
been pleaded.
The counsel for the plaintiff has also contended, that
although the paper-writing produced would, on the face of
it, import a usurious contract, yet, as the jury might possibly have inferred from it certain extrinsic facts, wpich
would have shown the contract not to have been within
the act, the jury ought to have been left at liberty to in.
fer those facts. But in this case the questibn arises upon,
a written instrument, and no principle, is more clearly
settled, than that the construction of a written evidence
is exclusively with the court.
This court is of opinion, that the court below has cor.,
rectly construed the instrument upon which the question
arose, and that, therefore, there is no error in the judgflent.
Judgment affirmed, with costs.

