FEBRUARY, 18o5.

RAY v. LAW.

LAW having a mortgage on real estate in the city of
Washington, and Ray having a subsequent mortgage on
the same estate, Law had filed his bill in chancery in the
circuit" court of the district of Columbia, for a foreclosure and sale of the mortgaged property, and made Ray
a defendant. The bill having been taken for confessed
sale.
against Ray, a decree was obtained by Law for anotice
The sale had been made under the decree, and
given, that on a certain day the sale would be ratified unless cause was shown. On that day Ray appearedi but
not showing good cause, in the opinion of the court, the
sale was confirmed. Ray prayed an appeal to this court
on the decree for the sale, which the court refused, on
the ground, as it is understood, that the decree for the
sale Nwas not a!inal decree in the cause.
Ray on this day presented a petition to this court setting forth those facts, among others, praying relief, and
that this court would direct the court below to send up
the record. At the same time he produced sundry papers, purporting to be the substance of that record, but
not properly authenticated.
M&,IARSHALL, Ch. J. The act of Congress points out
-he mode in which we are to exercise our appellate jurisdiction, and only authorises an appeal or writ of error
on-ajfna/judlgment or decree.

C. Lee, for the petitioner, contended, that this was a
final decree as to Ray, and cited 2 .Fowler'sExchequer
Practice,195, to show, ihat such a decree would, in England, be considered such a/lywl decree as would authorise
an appeal.
M11arch 5.
MARSHALL, Ch. J. We can do nothing without seeing the record, and the papers offered cannot be considered by us as a record.

RAY
V.

Adecreefor a
sale of mortg, e a bill
to foreclose,

is a final decree, from
an ap.
ewhich
W lie,
p

SUPREME COURT U. S.
Rt~v

V.
Lw

The court, however, is of opinion, that'a decree for a
sale under, a mortgage, is such a final decree V may be
appealed from. We suppose, that when the court below
understands that to be our opinion, it will allow an appeal, if it be a case to which this opinion'applies.

LEVY v. GADSBY,
LzvyV.
G.& DSBY.

If A lend
money to B,
who puts it
out at usurious interest,
and agrees to
pay to A the
same rate of
interest
which he is

ERROR to the circuit court of the district of Co.

lumbia, sitting at Alexandria.

This was artaction of assumpsit, by Levy, the indorsee of a promissory note, against Gadsby, payee
and i:,dorsor of M'Intosh's note.

The declaration consisted of three counts. The I at,
receiving up- in addition to the common averments, alleged, that the
on A's money, plaintiff had brought suit upon the note against M'In.
this is usury
between -4 tosh, in Maryland, and recovered judgment, but that
and B, and before execution made M'Intosh died insolvent. The
an indorsor of 2d count was in the usual form, excepting that it al.
B'& note to
.A,may avail leged that Gadsby, became liable by the custom Of
himself of the merchants. The 3d count was for money had and reThe defendant pleaded, 1st. Non assumpsit.
pleanf
Ifthe usury.
usury ceived.
be sperialy 2d. As to the first count, usury between M'Intosh and
pleaded, and Levy, stating the transaction as a loan, by the latter to
the court re- the former. 3d. As to the first count, usury between
ject the evi- the same parties, stating tie'transaction as a forbeardence oflhred
ance of an antecedent debt. The 4th and 5th were
upon such
specitl

plea,

like pleas of usury to the 2d count.

The 3d and 5th

it mtw be ad- pleas, by mistake, alleged the note given, in pursuance
mitted upon

O

issue, not-

to M'lh"ogh, and by him indorsed to Levy ; whereas,
the note in the declaration mentioned, was a note made
by M'Intosh to Gadsby, anti byhim indorsed to Levy.

the geneol

withstanding
itbas been refused upon
the special

plea.-

o the corrupt agreement, to be a note made by Gadsby

To the pleas of usury, there were general replications
and is':ues, and a general verdict for the defendant. On

