496
LAW19ASON

V.
M,oi.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

an assurnfpsit, no action wilt lay;-it may be answered,

that in tfie present'case there is an actual assumpsit to
i all the world, and any person who trusts, in consequence of that promise, has a right of action.
Ithas been suggested by the counsel for the defendants, that, although an actioi; of assumpsit will not lay,
yet possibl the plaintiff tuight support an action for the
deceit. But an action for the deceit must be grounded
upon the breach of the promise. And if an action will
lay in any form, the present seems td be at least as
proper as any other.
Judgment affirmed.

KNOX XT AL.
V.
SUMMERS

KNOX AND CRAWFORD v. SUMMERS AND
THOMAS.

ET AL.

An appearance of the
defendant by
attorney cures

all antecedent
irregularity of
process.
Qtere whethier a deputymarshal can

ERROR to the circuit court of the district of Co4
lumbia.
The plaiitiffs in crror brought an action of debt on a

bond against the defendants, in the court below, to which
the defendant, Summers, after oyer of the writ, pleaded
in abatement, that on the day of the issuing of the or!gin' writ, as well as ofi the day of its service on him,

pleadinabate- he was one of the marshal's deputies, for the district of

ment, that the Columbia, and that the writ was not directed to a disincapia, was not

served on him terested person, appointed by the court of the district
l~y a diinteof Columbia, or by any justice or judge thereof, to ex7&ted peron P ecute the same. To which plea the plaintiffs demurred
specially, 1st. Because the plea was filed long after the
appearance of the defendant, Summers. 2d, Because,
after his appearance to the suit, no objection can be
urged to the irregularity of the service of the process.
3d. Because, if the process was irregularly issued, directed, or served,, the remedy was by motiQn and not by
plea, and 4th. Because the process was duly issued, directed and served. I ut the court below adjudged the-

FEBRUARY, 1806.

49?

plea to b- good, and ordered the writ to be quashed" as KNox

to both defendants.
theirwrit of error.

Whereupon, the plaintiffs sued out

By the 28th section of the act of congress of the 24th
of September, 1789, vol. 1, p. 66, it is enacted, ," I hat
in all causes wherein the marshal, or his deputy, shall
-be a party, the writs and precepts therein shallbe directed
to sfich disinterested person as the court, or any justice
or judge thereof, may appoint; and the person so appointed, is hereby authorised to-execute and return the.
same.))
Swann, for the plaintiffs in error. The provision of
the act of congress was not intended for the benefit of 'the
marshal, or his deputy, but of the other party.
1 he
word " sh aU, " in this, as in -many other cases, means
may. It shall be directed to a disinterested person, if the
other p.arty shall request it. But if the direction of the
writ to the marshal was an informality, it is cured by the
general appearance of the deputy marshal. Co. Lit.
325. 9 Ld. Ray. 1544, Blenkinson v. lies. 1 he record states, that there was judgment by default, at the
rules against both defendants, and that at the next court,
on the motion of the defendants, by Walter Jones, jun.
-their attorney, it was ordered that the suit be returned
to the rules for proceedings anew. At the next rules, the
record states, that "the said Lewis Summers, in his properperson, comes and defend& the force and injury, &c.
and prays oyer of the writ," &c. So that this plea, in
abatement,' was not put in until after he had appeared by
his attorney, and set aside the office judgment.
But this is not a matter pleadable in abatement. If a
person is improperly arrested, his remedy forme$ly was
by a writ of privilege, but now it is by motion to be discharged. He cannot plead it.

C. Lee, contra. When the cause was sent back to the
rules for proceedings anew, it was as if nothing had been
done at the rules. Every thing was to begin de novo.
The defendant, Summers; is to be considered as then appearing for the first time; and instartty, upon his appearanre, he pleaded in abatement in propriapersona.
Vol II.
3 £

A.

Ax.

498
ZT -AL.
ENo:k

V.

ST

Al.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

It does not appear, upon the writ, that he was a deputk
marshal. It could not, therefore, be taken advantage of
upon motion. Or if it could, yet that is not the most.
regular way. Upon a motion, the fact must appear by

afidavit, and the court must decide the fact. But upon
a plea, the fact is put in issue and tried by the jury, the
proper tribunal to try a question of fact.
The law is express and positive; " the writ shall be
directed" to a disinterested person. There is no discre'tion in the court.
Where it appears to the court,from the -writitsef, that
it ought to abate, there the court; ex officio, ought to
give judgment against the plaintiff, though the defend'-nt
does not plead it in abatement ; but it is otherwise where
this does not appear in the writ. 4 Bac. Ab. 44. Where
the fact does not appear upon the record, it must be
pleaded in due time.
WASHINGTON, J. The defendant could not set aside
the office judgment, without entering his appearance.

C. Lee. If such an appearance is to cure all antecedent
error, no plea in abatement could be put in, although,
the office judgment was irregularly obtained.; nor could
the defendant takeadvantage of irregularity at the rules ;
although the court is, by the express provisions of the
law, authorised to set aside the proceedings at the rules.
The court were unanimously of opinion that the appearance by attorney cured all irregularity of process.
The defendant, perhaps, might have appeared in propria
persona, and directly pleaded in abatement. But having
once appeared by attorney, lie is precluded from taking
advantage of the irregularity.
The judgment reversed, the defendant ordered to
answer over, and the cause remanded for further proiseedings.

