FEBRUARY, 1865.
MA. 1-7. Co.
THE MARINE INSURANCE COMPANYOF
ALEXANDRIA v. WILSON.

or ALrx.
ANDUL&.

V.

WILSON.

THIS was an action of covenant in the circuit court of
the district of Columbia, sitting at Alexandria, brought
by Wilson, the defendant in error, against the Maring
Insurance Company of Alexandria, upon a policy of insurance on the brig George, from Alexandria to Havrede-Grace, &c.

i' apoucy up.
on a vessel
have a clause,
'that if the
vessel, after a
regular suevey, should be
"condeminedas
unsound or

One of the clauses in the policy was in the following rotten,theunword;, viz. " If the above vessel, 'after a regular sur- dervritera
vey, shall be condemned for being unsound or rotten, should not he
h boundtopay,"
the underwritersshall not be bound to pay the subscrip- a report of
tion on this policy." The declaration was for a total surveyors,
loss, and averred, that the brig sailed from Alexan- that she was
dria, on the 24th of October, 1802, upon the voyage unsound and
rotten, but not
insured.
referring to
the corn-

mencementof

The defendants pleaded,

the voyage, is

Ist. " That on the 24ih day of October, 1802, the said
brigantine, called the George, was unsound in her timbers, and by reason of the said unsoundness, was not capable of performing the voyage in the policy mentioned,
viz. at and from Alexandria aforesaid, across the Atlantic ocean to Havre-de-Grace, Rotterdam or Bremen, with
liberty to call at Falmouth for order, and this they are
ready to verify,"' &c'.

not sufficient

to discharge
the underwriters.
Quere, %vhether such repart, even ifit
related to the
comrencement of the
voyago,would
be concluslve

2d. "That after the said, brigantine had gone from evidenceI
Alexandria aforesaid, upon the voyage aforesaid, and
while she was proceeding upon thevoyage aforesaid, upon
the high seas, she sprung aleak, viz. on the 31st day of
October, in the yiear aforesaid, in consequence of her not
having been tight, staunch and strong enough for performing the voyage aforesaid, on the said 24th day of
Present, Marmsiall, Ch. J. Cjuhi , .Paterjon, and Waudng
T

Justices.

,

SUPREME COURT U. S.
MA. f. Co. October, in the-year aforesaid, at Alexandria aforesaid,
or' ALE.X- and, at the instance of her crew, her voyage was interANDRA.
V.

Wuso=r.

rupted upon account of her incapacity to perform the
same. And the said brigantine was put back and conducted into a convenient port to be examined and repaired, viz. into Norfolk in Virginia, and that a regular
survey of the said brigantine was made at Norfolk on
and thereupon
in the year
day of
the
the said brigantine was condemned foi being unsound
to that degree as not to be worthy of being repaired,
and rendered fit and able to perform the' voyage aforesaid, whereof the .plaintiff afterwards, to wit, on the day
and year last mentioned, at the county of Alexandria
aforesaid, had notice, and this they are ready to verify,"
&c.
To this last plea there wyas, at firsf, a general demurrer, which was afterwards withdrawn, and general replications and issues to both pleas.
On the trial, two bills of exception were taken by the
defendants.. The first states, that the defendants moved
the court to instruct thejury to find a verdict for the defendants, if they should be satisfied by thetestimony that
the George, on the 24th of October, 1802, after a regular
srveyv, was condemned as being unsound or 'otten by
the surveyors, whose report is as follows, tQ wit, "Thu
brig George, of Alexandria, Caspar Hayman, master,
having put into' this port in distress, we, the subscribers,
the request of said master, did this day attend on board,
at:
for the purpose of ascertaining and reporting the situdttion of the said vessel, and the circumstances of said distress. We found, from the report of said master, and
others, that they sailed from Alexandria on the 24th of
October last past, with a cargo of tobacco, 'coffee and
staves, bound orq a voyage to Falmouth, in England;
that on the 31st of the same month, in consequence -of
having met with heavy gales of wind, the vessel sprung
alehk, and that with much difficulty and continued labour
at the pumps, haviiig seldom less than three feet water in
the hold, they- gained this port. Considering the foregoing circumstances, and the appearances which, in our
minds, confirm the same, we think proper to recommend
that thevessel be hauled.to some convenient wharf, the

189

FEBRUARY, 1805.

cargo landed, and the hull carefully examined. Given MA. In. Co.
under our hands at Norfolk, Virginia, 17th November, OF A"
1802.
Y.
W1LSOX.
JAmEs HuNTER,
PAUL PROBY."
"The cargo of the brig George, of Alexandria, having
been unladen, pursuant to a recommendatio contained
in a report, dated the 17th instant, and signed by two of
the present subscribers, we, the undersigned, at the request of Caspar Hayman, master of said brig, did this
day attend on board for the purpose expressed in said
report.
"We find, on a minute examination of the hull of
said vess'el, that without going into an extensive repair,
the intended voyage cannot be prosecuted; and, considering the heavy expense that must necessarily attend
such a measure, and which, in our opinion, would exceed
the value of the vessel when completed, we are clearly of
opinion, that the vessel and materials, in their present
state, should be immediately Sold on account of those
concerned. Given under our hands at Norfolk, Virgini,, this 26th Nov. 1802.
JAM4ES HUNTER,

Merchant,

PAUL PROBY, Ship-master,
JOHN JARVIS,
THos. NASH,

Milfaster Car-

J

penters."

But the court refused to give the instruction as
prayed.
The second bill of exceptions stated, that.the defendants' counsel moved the court to instruct the jury to
find a verdict for the defendants, if they should be satisfed by the testimony, that the brig George, after a regular survey, was condemned a . having been unsound or
totten on the 24th, day of October, 1802, by the surveyors, whose report is as follows : (here was inserted
the same report) and shall also be satisfied by the evidence, that the said vessel, while she was performing the.
voyage insured upon the high. seas, sprung aleak on the
sist day of October, in the year aforesaid, and at the
instance of her crew, the said voyage was interrupted

SUPREME COURT U. S.
r. Co. upon account of her incapacity to perform the said voyage ; and that ihe said brigantine was put back, and conducted into a convenient port'to be examined; namely,
WLSON. int' Norfolk in Virginia, where the survey herein before% mentigned, was made'; but the court refused to give such
instruction.

mA.

or AL.x*v

C. Lee, for plaintiffs in error.
this cause.

Three points arise in

1st. That the report of the surveyors is-,conclusive
upon the question of seaworthiness, unless partiality ,
corruption, or misbehaviour on the part of the surveyors,
in making the survey, can be. shown.
2d. That it is competent for the defendant to explain,
by parol testimony, the grounds upon which the surveyors condemned the vessel.
3d. That it, was not necessary for the insurers to plead
specially the report of the surveyors, and their condemnation of the vessel, but that it might be given in evidence.
1st. If the parties have agreed upon a tribunal'to
decide a particular question, they must be bound by
the decision of that tribunal. So in the case of an
award. It is binding upon the parties all dyer the
world.
But, it may be said, how are the surveyors to ascertain the condition of the vessel on the 24th of October ?
The answer is, that they might examine witnesses ;'they
mightjudge from the universal decay of the timbers,
&c.
The covenant in the policy does not say at what time
the vessel must be proved to have been unsound. But
we admit, that she must be proved to have been un.
sound at the time the voyage comflaenced.
We pleaded, that she was unsound on the 24th of
October, when the voyage commenced ; and we prayed the court to instruct the jury, that if they should
be satisfied by the evidence that she was condemned

FEBRUARY, 18o5.

as being unsound and rotten on the 24th of October, AA. Iu. Co.
after a regular survey, .they ought to find a verdict for oF ALEXthe defendants. This Instruction, we contend, the A.
court ought to have given ; for the report of the sur- WILSOX
veyors is like an award of arbitrators, which cannot be
Y
set aside, unless partiality, fraud, or misbehaviour be
proved on the part of the arbitrators. In the case of
Shelton v. Barbour, 2 Wash. 64, it was held, that a
former verdict and judgment between the mother of
the plaintiff, whb sued for his freedom, and the defendant, by which it was adjudged that the mother was a
slave, were conclusive evidence that the plaintiff, her
son, was a slive. And this was in a question where
freedom was concerned, and where the natural leaning
of the court is presumed to be in favour of freedom.
The judgment of a court is. to be admitted as conclusive evidence, without being specially pleaded. So
is an award, and the judgnentofa foreign court which
has jurisdiction over the subject mntter and the parties.
2d; If the report of the surveyors does not refer to
the 24th of October, as the time when the vessel was
unsound, it was competent for us to explain the, report
by tettimony not inconsistent.with it. There is, however, enough in the report to induce a presumption that
she was not sound on the 24th. The unsoundness was
in the hull, not in the rigging, mastg, &c.
To show that parol testimony might be admitted to
explain any ambiguity of the report, the following cases
were cited : 1. T. R. 701, Doe, dem: Freeland -?
Burt. I Dall. 193, Gregory v. Setter. 2 Dull. 171,
Fiel4 v. Briddle. 2 Dal. 173, JlInn
v. Orwen. 1.
TVash. 15, Ross v. Norvell.
March 5.
Marshall, Ch. J. declined giving an opinion, conceiving himself to be in a remote degree interested in
the stock of the insurance company.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
WA,

I.

Co.

OF AILxANDR I.

The other three judges delivered their opinions seriatim, as follows:

V.

WILSON.
'that

WAsHINGoN, J. It does not appear upon the record
any other evidence was offered to prove-the vessel
unsound on the 24th of October, than the report of
the surveyors. No parol testimony appeais to have
been offered to explain the reprt, or to apply it to the
time of commencing the risk. The bill of exceptions
is repugnant. It asks an opinion predicated upon the
unsoundness of the vessel oiithe 24th of October, and
relies upon the report of the surveyors, yhich applies
only to the 3rst of October. If it was intended to
bring beftre this court the propriety of admitting parol evidence to explain the report, that question dods
not appear to arise from the record.
I see no reason for reversing the judgment.
I do not, however, mean to be understood, that if
parol evidence had been offered, it would have been
proper to-receive it. I give no opinion upon that
point.
PATEnrso, J. No parol evidence appears upon the
record to show that the report of the surveyors referred
to the 24th of October. The conclusiveness of the
report, therefore, did not come before the court. It
is not a point in the cause.

CusnxNG, J. This is an act-on on a policy of insurance; The defence set up is, that the vessel was uu.
sound and rotten on the 24th of October, when the
risk commenced ; and it is alleged that the report of
the surveyors is conclusive evidence of that fact. But
the report does not apply to that time. Let the judgment be affirmed with costs.

