FJBRUARr TERM, 1806.

DOBYNES & MORTON v. UNITED STATES. Dony.zs 4
MORTON

V.
TuEUNITzE
STATM.

THIS writ of error came up at last term from 'the
,district court of the 'United States for the Kentucky To support
district, which, by law, has the jurisdiction of a circuit aUeto4
#bond, at the
court of the United States.
return term,

The suit was originally brought by the United States
against Lewis Moore, as principal, and Dobynes and
Morton, as sureties, in a bond given by Moore, as a
collector of the revenue,

it must aprecord, that
the writ 'was
executed dapa
fourteen
before the re.

The writ of capias ad respordendum was issued on turn day,
the 12th of February, 1803, returnable to the 2d Monday of March following; and judgment was recovered
by defhult, at the return term, on motion,
The error insisted upon was, that it did not appear,
by the record, that the writ had been "-executed fourteen days'before the return day thereof,' according to
the 14th section of the act of congress, of July 11,
1798, vol. 4, p. 197.
'The record contained a copy of the bail-bond given
by Morton, dated the I1th of March, 1803 ; and a
receipt from the jailor, for the body of Dobyzes, dated
the 12th of March, 1803.
The 2d Monday of March could not have beeu later
than the 14th of the month.
V61. III.

I i

SUPREME COURT U. S.
DoayNvs &
MORTON

V.
THEU-ITED
Sri. IES.

Mason, for the United States, suggested diminution
in this, that the writ was served on Dobynes and Morton, on the 20th of Febriuary, as appeared by the record
of the. district court ; and obtained a' certiorari.
But now, at this term, the return of the certiorarinot
showing anjy thin& more than what appeared on the first
transcript,
Breckenridge, attorney-general, adinitted that the
judgmeut could not be supported, as there was nothing
in the record by which the return of the marshal could
be amended, so as to show, that the writ had been executed fourteen days before ihe return day.
C. Lee, for the plaintiffs in error.
Judgment reversedp

HANNAY v. EVE.

HAxNNAT"
V.
EVE.

The cofirts
THIS was a writ of error to the circuit'court of the
of the United United, ,States, for the district of Georgia, sitting in
Stateswill not
enforce all a- chancerv, to reverse a detree which dismisstd the
greement en- complainant's bill on a demurrer.
tered into in

fraud of a law

T

cofr

The com lanant.as assignee ofCruden and Company,
States ; alalleged, in his bill, that on the 24th of December,
thoigh that 1782, during the war between, the United States and
agreement
Great-Britain, the British armed ship Dawes, owned
wwL; made between per- by Crudcn-andCompany, who were British subjects,
sons who
and commanded by Oswel Eve, the defendant, sailed
were then e- with a cargo, the property of Crudenand Company, from
nemies of the Kingston, in Jamaica, for New-York, then in possesUnited States, .aaca
N~
and the object sion of the British troops. That on her passage the
of the agree- ship met with much tempestuous weather, by which
straent a meeo she was rendered incapable of reaching her port of desof....ited'

NwAr.

tination ; in consequence of which, the defendant, after

