FEBRUARY, 1805.
LANszwT's

LAMBERT'S LESSEE v. PAINE.

V.

THIS was an ejectment brought in the circu" court of A de'se of
the United Staues, for the middle circuit in the Virginia "all tAt atore
district ; in which John Doe, a subject of the king of roxb~c. in
GreatBritain, residing without the state of Virginia. lt- the county of
see of John Lambert, another subject of the king- of Great Henry, concs,Britain, complains of Richard Roe, a citizen 6f Virginia, tainiztg
tiain, ls,585
residing woithin the said state, and claims possession eifacresoflwid,"
a messuage and tenement containing 166 acres of land in carmesthefee.
O-titre, whethe county of Henry, being part of a tract of lhnd called thtra Wltish
Marrowbone.
subject, bor
in Enghlnd, in

The jury found the following special verdict, viz. thc )ct1750,
who al.
"That George Harmer, being se'ized in fee of the lands and
ways resided
in the declaration mentioned, on the 2z5th of June, 1782, in 'England,
made a paper-writing. purporting to b: his last will and could, inthb
testament, all written with his proper hand, and signed year 1786,
take and hold
by him ; which will we"find in these words: " In the lands in Vir.
name of God, Amen. I George Harmer, of the common- ginia by de.
wealth of Virginia, being perfectly well and of sounq scent, or by
mind and memory, do make and ordain my last will and devise .
testament, in manner and form following, that is to sixv,
all the estate, both, real and personal, that I possess or am
entitled to, in the commonwealth of Virginia, I hit-rby
give and devise unto my'friend, Thomas Mlann Randolph, of Tuckabo, and Henry Tazewell, *of the city of
Williamsburgh, intrust, upon these condiions, that
when John Harmer, mv brother, now a subject of the
king of Grea. Britain, shall be capable of acquiring property in this country, that they, or the survivor of them,
do convey, or cause to be conveyed to him in fee simple,
a good and iiidefeasible title in the said estate; and in
case the said John Harmer should not be capable of acquiring such right before his death, then that my said
trustees, or the survivor of them, do couvey the said
estate hn manner aforesaid, to John Lambert, son of my
sister, Hannah Lambert, when he shall be capable of acquiring property in this country ; and in case John Lambert should not, before his death, be capable of a,quiring
a title to the said estate, then I direct the same to be conVol. I.
0

SUPREME COURT U. S.
LAMirRT'S
LESSEE

veved to my sister, Hannah Lambert, if she, in her life,
time; can acquire property in this country.

V.

PAINE.

t3",But

if the said John Harmer, John Lambert and
Hannah Lambert, sh6uld all die before they can acquire
property-legally in this country, then I desire that my
trustees aforesaid may cause the said estate of every kind
to .)e sold, and the 'money arising from each sale, together with intermediate profit§' of the said estate sihall be
by them remitted, to Lhe mayor and corporation of the
city of Bristol in England, to be by them distributed, according to the laws of England, to the right heirs of my
said sister, Hannah Lambert, to whom I hereby give all
such money, excepting the sum of 1001. lawful money
to each of the aforementioned trustees, which shall be
paid out of the first money arising from the sales aforementioned, or from the profits arising to my heirs. In
witness whereof; I have hereunto set my hand and affixed
my seal this 25th of June, 1782." We find, that on the
12th day of September, 1786, the said'George Harmer,
being seised as aforesaid, duly executed another writing
testamentary, which we find in these words : "In the
name of God, Amen. I George Harmer, being sick and
weak in body, but in perfect mind and memory, do give
and bequeath unto Doctor Georg'e Gilmer, of Albeinarle
county, -all the estate called Mlarrowbone, in the county
of Henry, containing, b) estimation, 2,585 acres of land ;
likewise, one other tract of land in said county, called Horse-pasture,containing, by estimation, 2,500 acres ;
also, one other tract, in the county aforesaid, containing, by estimation, 667 1-2 acres of land, called the
Poison-field'. It is my desire that all my negroes, horses,
and other' property, be sold, and after paying my debts,
the balance, if any, be remitted to my nephew, John Lambert, out of which he shall pay his mother five hundred
pounds." &c.
Afterwards, on the 12th or 13th day of September,
1786, he departed this life without revoking the will or
writing testamentary last mentioned ; and without any
other revocation of the will firdt mentioned,.than the
said writing testamentary of the 1'2th of'September, 1786.
We find, that John Harmer, mentioned in the paper-writing of June, 1782, departed this life about the year 1793.
We find, that John Lambert, named in the paper-wiitings

FEBRUARY, 1805.

99

aforesaid, the lessor of the plaintiff, and, if capable of
law to the said George
inheriting lands in Virginia, heir :it
Harmer; that he was born in England on or before the
year 1750 ; that lie has never resided in any of the United States of America, 'and is, and ever has been, from the
time of his birth, a subject of the king of Great-Britain.
We find, that George Gilmer aforesaid, junder whose
heir and deyisees the defendant holds, died in the month
of November, 1793. We find, that in the December session, 1798, the general assembly of Virginia passed an
large in these words: "1An act
act, which, we find ait
vestingin the children of George Gilmer deceased, cer,
tain lands therein mentioned (passed January 12, 1799.)
" Section 1.' Be it enacted by the general assembly,
that all the right, title and interest, which the common,wealth hah, or may have, in or to the following lands,
lyig in the county of Henry, which George Harmer, by
his last will and testament, devised to a certain George
Gilmer, and which, since the death of the said George.
Gilmer, it is supposed have become escheatable to the
commonwealth, to wit, one tract called Marrowbone,
containing, by estimation, 2,585 acres ; one other tract
called Horse-pasture,containing, by estimation, 2,500
acres; and one other tract called the Poison-feld, containing, by estimation, 667 1-2 acres, shall be, and the
same are hereby released to, and vested in, the children,
whether heirs or devisees, of the said George Gilmer, deceased; to be by them held and enjoyed, according to
their respective rights of inheritance, or devise under his
will, as the case may be, in the same manner as if the said
George Gilmer had died seised of the lands in fee simple,
and -an office had actually been found thereof; saving*,
lowever, to a certain John Lambert, who, as. heir at law
to the said George Harmer, claims the said lands, and to
all and every other person or persons, bodies politic and
corporate (other than the commonwealth) any right, title
or interest, which he or they might or would have had
in or to the said lands, -or any part thereof, against the
said children and devisees, if this act had never been
made.
" Section 2. This act shall commence in force from
the passing thereof." We'find, that George Harmer was)
at the time of his death, seised in fee of the lands in the

LA^unixz'u
LE.S'E

PALn.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
LAMBERT'S
LESSEE
V.

1PAIE.

declaration tnentioned, which are of the value of '3,000
dollars, and that George Gilmer, at the time of his death;
vwas seised of the same under the devise to him from the
Gtorge Harmer. We find the lease, entry and ousSsaid
ter in the declaration mentioned, On the whole matter,
if the court shall be of opinion that the law is for the plaintiff, we find for the plaintiff th- lands and tenements in the
declaration mentioned, and 20 cents damages ; and if the
court shall be of opinion that the law is for the defendant,
we find for the defendant."
Upon this verdict the judgment of the court below wan
for the defendant.
The transcript of the record contains a bill of excep.
tions by the defendant to the relusal of the court to the
admission of testimony to prove that George Harmer, at
the time he made the will, in favour of Gilmer, declared
to the person who wrote it, that it was his intention to
give Gilmer the fee simple.
There was also an agreement of counsel, that if the
court should be of opinion, that the first will ought not to
have been admitted in evidence, because not proved before a court of probate, then so much of the verdict as
relates to that will, should not be considered as forming
any part of this case.
The writ of error was sued out by the plaintiff, and
general errors assigned. The case was arg~ed at Fcbruary term, 1803, by Atinor and Mason, for the plaintiff
in error, and by Key, for the defendant.
Afinor, for the plaintiff, insisted on the following
points, viz.
1st. That the devise from George Harmer to George
Gilmer, date.d 12th of September, 1786, of all the
estate called Marrowbone, is only a devise for life.
2 1. That John Lambert, heir at law of George
Harmer, is not an alien as to the citizens of this
country-, and is capable of taking the reversion by
descent.

FEBRUARY, 1805.

101

3d. That the will of 12th September, 1786, is only
a partial, and not d total revocation of the will of
25th June, 1782; and that this will passes and disposes of the reversionary interest of the testator's
estate according to the legal import of that will.
4th. That by virtue of the Virginia statute transferring.trusts into possession, the devise of 1782, transferred the legal estate to John Lambert.
5th. That John Lambert, if an alien, is capable of
taking by devise, and is protected by the treaty of
1794!, between the United States and Great Britain.
6th. Or that, if not, the property remains in him
until office foind for the commonwealth.
ist. That the devise to Gilmer is only for life.
In the first will of 1782, which is wholly written with
the testator's own hand, he evinces not only a knowledge of the import, but of the necessity of technical
words of limitation, or perpetuity; yet, in the will of
1786, he uses expressions which convey a life-estate
only, and uses no words which can be construed into
an intention, wholly to revoke the will of 1782. The
first will disposes of the fee to his near relations ; and
hence results a strong presumption, that he meant to
give only a life-estate by the will of 1786. The will of
1782, makes use of strong terms of limitation, or per-'
petuity, and clearly shows his intention of securing the
fee simple to his brother and heir, John Harmer, who
had, in fact, given him this very land. In the last will
he does not notice his former will, nor mention his
brother and heir, but devises "all the estate called M11arrowbone, in the county of Henry, containing, by estimation, 2,585 acres of land," &c. to Doctor George
Gilmer.
It is generally true that a devise of real property
without words of limitation, conveys only an estate
for life. This is the general rule, and must previil,
unless such circumstances appear as are sufficient to

aatisfy the conscience of the court, that the testator

LAmsrEa,',

LESSLL

pA,?Z.

102
LABERT'S
LESSEE

PAIsn.
y

SUPREME COURT U. S.

intended to convey a fee. Cowp. 235, Bowes v. Blachett. So in the case of Hogan v. 7ackson, Cowp. 306.
Lord Mansfield, said, " if the words of the testator
denote only a description of the specijjc estate, or lands
devised; in that case, if no words of limitationare added, the devisee has only an estate for life. But if the
words denote the quantum of interest or property, that
the testator has in the lands devised, there the wholc
extert of his interest passes, by the gift, to the devisee. The question, therefore, is always a question of
construction, upon the words and terms used by th 9
testator. It is now clearly settled that the words,
" all hi. estate," will pass every thing a man has; but,
if the word " all" is coupled with the word "personal," or a local description, there the gift will pass
only personalty, or the specific estate particularly described." 'And in the case of Loveacres v. Blight,
6'owp. 355, Lord Mansfield said "in general, wherever
there are words and expressions, either general or
particular, or clauses, ina will, which the court can
lay hold of, to enlarge the estate of a devisee, they
will do so to efectuate the intention. But if the intention of the testator is doubtful, the rule of law
must take place: so, if the court cannot'find words
in the will sufficient to carry a fee, though, they themselves should be satisfied, beyond the possibility of a
doubt, as to what thd intention of the party was, they
muct adhere to the rule of law. Now, though the introduction of a will, declaring that a man means to
make a disposition of all his Yoorldly estate, is a strong
circumstance, connected with other words, to explain
the testator's intention of enlarging a particular estate,
or of passing a fee where he has used no words of
limitation, it will not do alone. And all the cases cited
in the argument, to show that the introductory words
in this case would alone be sufficient, fall short of the
mark; because they contained other words, clearly
manifesting the intention of the testator to pass a feQ."
The case of Right v. Sidebotham, Doug. 59, is also
very strong. There the introductory clause testifies
the intention of the testator to dispose of all his
worldly goods and estates, and also a disinheriting legacy to the heir. The devise, then in question, is
coupled by the word "and" with another devise to

FEBRUARY, 18o5.

103

the same devisee, her heirs and assigns, yet it was held LAmmnRT's
not sufficient to carry the fee. Lord Mansfield says,
LESv.
" the rule of law is established and certain, that exPAln.
press words of limitatioki, or words tantamount, are
necessary to pass an estate of inheritance. All my
estate, or, all my interest, will do; but, " all my lands
lying in sfzeh" a place, is not sufficient. Such words are
considered as merely descriptive of the local situation,
and only carry an estate for life." The same principle
is laid down id Gilbert on devises, 24. Thus, we find
that the intention of the testator must be sought by
fixed rules, and when found, it must not only be sufficiently proved to satisfy the conscience of the court,
but must be coupled with apt and sufficient words to
pass a fee. See the case of Frogmorton v. tVright,
3 Wil. 418, which is a strong case for the plaintiff.
So is also the case of Chester v. Painter,2 P. Vill. 335.
In the case of Fletcher v. Simiton, 2 '.R. 656, the
words were " all my estates," and the decision was
upon the ground- of an intention clearly appearing to
dispose of his whole interest. There is nothing in the
present case to show an intention of conveying a fee,
unless it be the words " all the estate called Marrowbone, in the county of Henry,. containing 2,585
acres of land." The testator does not, in the beginning
of his will, as in most of the cases cited, declare an
intention of disposing of all his estate and interest.
There is a difference between the terms " all the estate" and " all my estate." The latter is certainly a,
more evident allusion to the degree of interest, than
the former. The expressions " all the estate called
Marrowbone" are clearly words of locality, and not ot
interest. What idea would.a lawyer have of an estate
called Marrowbone, containing 2,585 acres? Could he
ascertain whether it was-an estate for years, for life, or
in fee? Besides, the expression is coupled with two
others which are most clearly descriptive of the thing,
arid not of the degree of interest. " Likewvise one other
tract of land, called Horse-pasture; also one othei
tract, called Poison-field." Here, by the word 11 lihiwise," is implied that the testator meant to devise the
same degree of interest in each of the tracts ; and by
the word " other," it is evident that he intended the
former description as a description of a tract of land

SUPREME COURT U. S.
LAIDERT'S

as to locality only, and not of his degree of interest

PAINE.

equivocal word, and having, in the subsequent clause
of the sentence, used synonimously a word which is
certain in its meaning, and clearly descriptive of the
thing, and not of the interest, it is fair. to conclude
that the equivocal meaning of the former, is explained
and rendered certain by the latter; and that he meant
no more by the word estate, than by the expression
tract of land. It is a rule, that where words are used
synonimously, the word most frequently used shall
govern the sense. Here the term tract.of land, is
twice used as synonimous to estate; the former, therefore, ought to controul the sense of the latter. It is true,
that " all my estate" has sometimes carried the fee ;
but to induce a departure from the general rule, the
intention must be clear to pass a fee. The word,
"'all," is coupled with a local description; it relates
to the number of acres, and not to the degree of the
testator's interest in the land. The word estate, as used
in Virginia, is generally understood to mean a description of the property or thing, and not of the interest ; and this court will respect the provincial mean.
ing, to come at the true intention of the testator. It
is not probable, and, therefore, is not to be presumed,
that he would give his estate to a stranger, and disinherit his heir, who had given him this very estate;
and it is to be observed, too, that he does not, in his
last will, even mention his brother John, to whom, by
the first will, he had given all his estate.

LESSEE
V.
a

.

in it. Having, in the first part of the sentence, used an

2. The second point is, that John Lambert, heir at
law of George Htrmer, is. not an alien as to the citizens
of this country,. and is capable of taking the reversion by
descent.
If he is incapable of holding lands in this country, it
must be because he is an alien born. Is he such under
the legad acceptation of the word alien ? A definition of
an alien is tilus given in Calvin's case, 16 .a) 7 C'o. " An
alien is a subject that is born out of the ligeance of the
king, and under the lig.-ance of another."
Wood's Inst.
23. 1 Inst. 1&8 (b.) 1 Woodeson, 386. John Lam
bert, the lessor of the plaintiff, was born in England int

FEBRUARY, 1805.
the ye r 1750, under the allegiance of the king of Great
Britain. At his birth .he had inheritable qualities, of
o
which he can be'deprived by one mode only, and that is
the commission of a crime sufficient to work corruption
bf blood. '1 Bi. Com. 371. This is not pretended.Lamberi was born within the ligqance of the king, the
then common sovereign of this country and England
and, therefore, is not'an alien born.
Those born under common allegiance may acquIre and
hold lands; and, in time of war, they may join the one,
but must render service to the other, for the land.Bracton, b. 5,,c. 24,fol. 427".Xb.) I Hae, P. C. 68. Calyin's case, 27. (b.) 7 Co. The words of Bracton arei
"1Est etiam et alia exceptio qua tenenti competit ex
persona petentis propter defectionem nationis, qux dilatoria est, et non perimit actionem, ut s!quis alieniqena
qui [non] fuerit ad ft'em regis Anglia, tali non respondeatur, saltem donec terra fuerint communes, nec etiam
sive rex ei concesserit placitare, quia sicut Anglicus non
auditur in placitando aliquem de terris et tenaementis in
Yrancia, ita nec debet Francigena, et alienigena, qui fuerit
ad fidem regis Francia, audiri placitando in Anglia.S'ed tamen sunt-aliqui Francigena in FLrancia, qui stunt ad
fiden utriusque, et semper fuerunt ante Normanniam
deperditam, et post, et qui placitant hic et ibi, ea rptione
qua sunt adfdemn utriusque, sicut fuit W. comes Marreschallus et manens in Anglia, et M. de Feynes manens in
Francia, et alli plures; et ita tamen si contingat guerram
moveri inter reges, remaneat personaliter quilibet eorum
cum eo cui fecerit ligeantiam, et faciat servitiurn debirum,
ei cum quo non steterit in personi." See also Calvin'a
case, fol. 25.(a. and b.) 7 Co. A man born in the English
plantationis a subject. Wood's Inst. 23. He that is
born in the mother country musts afortiori, be a subject,
and capable of all the rights of a subject in the colonies.
One of these riglts is that of acquiring property. 1 All
p ersons may convey, as well as purchase, except men
attainted 'of treason,"1 &c. "alieni born," &c. WFood's
Inst. 213. 1 Inst. 42. (b.) But it has been proved that
the lessor of the plaintiff is not an alien born; he, therefore, may purchase or take. If he once had an inheritablk quality, or a capacity to take, and has not forfeited it
by any crime, -it follows iliat he has it yet. The separation of the colonies from England,, could not, in law or
VoL DIL

P

LAiszaUT'

EsfeE

PA1.E

SUPREME COURT U. S.
LAIaMRT's reason, deprive him of this right. Calvin's case,fol. 21'.
.SsEEz
(a.and b.) Calvin's case was shortly this:. CAlvin was
P AT..

born in Scotland, after the crowns of England and ScotThe
question was, whether he could mnaintin'dn assize of novel
disseisinoflands in England, The plea was, "1thathe was an
alien, born at Edinburgh, within the kingdom of Scotland,
and within the ligeance of th king of Scotland, and out of
'the ligeance of the kingofEngland." One ofthe objections
on the part of the defendants was, that, if postnatiwere, by
law, legitimated in England, great inconvenience and confusion would follow, if the king's issue should fail, whereby
those kingdoms might again be divided. But to this it
,has answered by, the judges, that 14it is less than a
dream of a shadow, or a shadow of a dream; for it
hath.been often said, natural legitimation respecteth actual obedience to the sovereign at the tinie-of the birth :
For as the antenati remain aliens as to the crownof England, because they were born ztJen there were several
hings of the severalhingdoms, and thp uniting of the kingdoms by descent subsequent, cannot make him a subject
to that crown to,which he was an alien at the time of his
birth, so albeiit the kingdoms (which Almighty God of
his infinite goodness and mercy divert) should by descent
bedivided, andg-overnedby several inmg; yet it was re.
solved, that all those 'thatwere born under one naturalobedience, while the realms were united under one sovereign,
should remain natural born subjects, and no aliens';for
that naturalization,due and vested by birth-right,cannot,
by any separation 'of the crowns afterward, be tahetz
away; no'- he that was,' by judgmentof'law, a natural
subject at'the time of his birth, become an alien by such q
matter ex post facto. And in that case, upon 6uch an
accident, ourpostnatus may be adfidem utriusque regis,
as Bracton saith, in the aforemenioned place, Joh 427."
Tije present case is stronger than Calvin's. There the
question was whether he had gained a right; but here it
is whether he has lost one.. The same rule prevailed
when the Saxon heptarchy belcame united under th' lIng
of the West Saxons. Calvin's case, 23. (b.) And also
with regard to the possessions held by the kings of England in France at various times, such as the dukedom of
Acqititain, and the earldoms of Poitiers, Normandy and
Anjou. So with regard to the islands of Yetrvey, Guern-

Sland were united on the head of James the First.

FEBRUARY, 1805.
fey, Man, Ieland,&c. Calvin's case, 19, &c." I Hale, LAu.nv'a
A. C. 68, 69. Suppose a division of these states, it would
LssEE
V.
follow, from the doctrine contended for by the opposite
P,, .
counsel, that people.born in the same country, and under
one common allegiance, would be aliens to each other.
The kings'of England themselves did homage to the
kings of France for provinces which they held, such asNormandy, Guienne, Brittany,&c. This was also the case
with many of their subjects ; as in the case of the Duke.
of Richmond, Duhe D'.Aubigwy, &c. Hale, P. C. 68.
Calvin's case, 27. (b.) In tillS country the personal scrvices are dispensed with, but the land pays the common
tax or duiy.
Aienage is' incident to birth only, 4 T. R.
ex dem. Durourev. 7ones.

so8, Doe,

It is not just or reasonable that a man should be punished without committing a crime, or for an act committed by a superior power which he could not controul.
Suppose asedession of one of these states ; would it be
just that the citizens of the other states, -holding property
in that state, sh6uld forfeit it, or lost their rights ?
The'reasons of policy for'prohibiting aliens from holding lands, are stated, in Calvin's case, 18. (b.) to be
three. 'I. The secrets of the realm might thereby be
discovered. 2. The !evetiues of the realm "shoud be
taken and enjoyed by strangers born. 3. It should tend
to the destruction of the realm.: But none of these apply to the present case. Lambert lives out 6fthe realm,
and, therefore, canno betray.its secrets. The land will
continue to pay the taxes, which, being the sinews of
war, will preserve the realm. Besides, the case applying
only ,to the ahtenati, is limited in extent, and its operation will be constantly diminishing, by failure of heirs, by
alienations, by naturalization, &c.. The English, who
understand the principles of the common law at least as
well as vwe do, have allowed our citizens to inherit in
similar cases. The cases of the Chichester estate, and an
estate recovered by Mr. Boyd, and -the Earl of CassePs
estate, are examples. A .liberal pdlicy should dictate a
reciprocation of the same principle.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
LAMBZRT'S
LZSSLIE

PAINE.

The third point, viz. ihat the will of 12th Sept. 1786,
is only a partial, and not i total, revocation of the will
of 25th June, 1782 ; and that this will passes and disposes of the reversionary interest of the testator's
estate, accorditlg to the legal import of that will, was
admitted by the opposite counsel, in case the second
will devised a life-estate only.
The fourth point, that by virtue of the Virginia statute transferring trusts into possession, the devise of
1782 transferred the legal estate to John Lambert, was
also admitted, if he is not to be considered as an alien.
The fifth point is, that John Lambert, if an alien, is
yet capable of taking by devise, and is protected by the
treaty of 1794, between the United States and Great
Britain.
By the 9th article of the treaty " it is agreed that
British subjects who now hold lands in the territories of
the United States, and American' citizens who now
hold lands in the dominions of his majesty, shall continuie to hold them according to the nature and tenure
of their respective estates and titles therein; and may
grant, sell, or devise the same to whom they please, in
like manner as if they were natives ; and that neither
they nor their heirs or assigns shall, so fat as may respect the said lands, and the legal remedies incident,
thereto, be regarded as aliens."
The only doubt which can be raised upon this article
arises from the word hold. But treaties ought to be
liberally expounded, so as to meet the full intention of

the contracting parties. There can be no doubt but the
intention was to secure, not only actual possession, but
rights which would have vested but for the alienage of
the parties. This is apparent from the provision made
for legal remedies, which would be wholly useless if the
former expressions were meant to comprehend only
lands in actual possession.. If, therefore, Lambert is to
be considered as an alien, yet the treaty destroys that
bar tp his recovery.

'FEBRUARY, 18o.
The sixth point is, that although Lambert should be LAinzw'6
LESS'i
considered as an alien, and is not protected by the treaPA.
ty, yet he is capable of taking by devise, and of holding
the land until office found for the commonwealth.
He certainly has a good right against all the world,
except the sovereign. In England, land purchased by
an alien does not vest in the king until office found.
Co. Lit. 2. (b.) Hargrave's note (3.) 5 Co. 2 (b.)
Page's ease, 1 7ofies 78, 79. 1iore, 325, Englefleld's
case. 2 B1. Com. 293. If he had been tenant in tail,
he might have barred the remainder. Gqukr!). 102.
4 Leon. 84. An alien may take by devise, Powell on
Devises, 316, 317, 318. 2 Vez. 362. Knight v. Duplessis, and may hold until office found. "For," aa s Powell, " when-an alien takes by will, the estate, on the
will's being consummate, vests in him, and he is in to
all intents andpurposes, as any other devisee would have
been, until something further be don.-, to take the estate
devised out of him again for as long as the alien lives,
the inheritance is not vested in the king, nor shall he
have the land, until office fQund ; but if he die before
office, the law casts the freehold and inheritance upon
the king for want of heirs, an alien having none. So that
the title of the crown is collateral to the title by the devise, has no retrospect to the time of its being consummate, nor does it affect the land in the hands of the devisee, until another thing is done to entitle the king, not
under the devise, but by right of his prerogative; viz.
oficefound; the tenant being an alien, and consequently, though of capacity to take lands in his own right,yet
not of capacity to hold them."
Key, contra, contended,
1st. That George Harmer, by the will of 1786, devised a fee to Gilmer.
2d. That if he did not, yet the lessor of the plaintiff
cannot recover.
1st. The word estate, in the devising clause of a will,
where it refers to land, denotes and carries the testator's
interest in the land. And there is no diiference in con-

110
LAZSIFRr'S

LESSXE
V.

PAINE.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

structiotno0flawj whether the words are "all my estate,"
or "'all the estate." Both carry the whole interest of the
testator. In the present case there are no words of
Slorality that operate as description, and prevent the fee
from passing. It is admitted that the word estate,
where it is coupled with personalty, shall be restrained
and will not carry the fee of lands ; upon the principle
noscitur ex sociis. This case is not within this distinctioti, because the word estate refers wholly to the land,
and the whole personal estate is disposed of by t subsequ-,t, independent clause. Consequently no cases
can apply, but where the expressions are similar to those
" otf the present wil, and refer to lands. In the case of
Wison v. Robinson, 2 Lev. 91. 1 Mod. 100. 25 Car. 2.
an. 1672, the words were " all my tenant-right estate
at Brigis.'nd in Underbarrow," and it was held .that
-they passed the fec." This is the general rule of law,
and is uniformly supported by the authorities from the
year 1672 to the present time ; except the case ci ed
by the plaintiff's counsel, from 2d P. Williams. '1 he
case in 2 Lev. 91, is exactly like the preseht; the word
lands is used in the same sentence, and in the same manner as in the present case.
The word estate, in wills, always means the interest,
unless controuled by words of restriction. Words of
locality will not restrain the force of the word estate.
In the case of the Countess of Bridgewater v. Duke of
Bolton, 1 'Salk. 236. 6 Mod. 106. SCC. the words wtre
" all other my estate realandpersonalnot otherwise disposed of-by this my will, for to be given by him to his
children as he shall think convenient, I solely trusting
to his honour and discretion that he will give them such
provision as will be necessary." "B Eet per Holt, Ch. 7.
who delivered the resolution of the court, the rents pass
by these words " all my real and personal estate," for
the word estate is genusgeneralissimum, and includes all
things real and personal, and the fee of the rents passes,
at least the whole estate of the devisor; for allhis estate
is a description of his fee. In pleading a fee simple,
you say no more thi seisitus In dominico suo ut defeodo ;. and in farmedon, or other action, if a fee simple
be'alleged," you say cujus statum the dematidant now

has."

And he held "that devising all his estate, arid

FEBRUARY, 189t.
all his estate in such a house, was the same, and that all
his estate in the thing passed in either case."
The next case is thatof Barry v. Bdgeworth, 2 P.
Williams 523, -dnno 17'29, which overrules the case of
Chester v. Painter, cited by the plaintiff's counsel from
2 P. Williams 335, anno,1725." In this case of Chester
v. Painter,the court probably took the whole will together, and from the testator's having used the Nvord heirs
in some of the devises, and omitted it in the devise in
question, concluded that it was not his intention to pass
the fee.. In the case of Barryv. Edgeworth- the.words
iv.ere" " all her land and estate in upper Catesby, with all
their appurtenances," and the master of the rolls held it
to be decided b'y the case of the Countess of Bridge.
water V. the Duke of Bolton, Salk. 236 ; and said, "the'
word estate naturally signifies the interest rather than
ihe subject, and its primary signification refers thereto ;
and although the devise be of all her land and estate
in upper Catesby, this is not restrictive with respect to
the estate intended to pass by the will, but only as to
the land." "And as the word estate has been agreed
and settled to convey a fee in a will, it would be dangerous to refine upon it ; for then none could give any
opinion thereupon." This case refers to that of Murry
v. Wyse, 2 Vern. 564, anno 1706, where the words "all
the rest and residue of his realandpersonalestate -whatsoever," were held to pass a fee. Precedents in Chqn.
264. S. C. In the case of Ibbetson v. Betkwith, Cases
Temp. Talbot, 157, the words were, " as touching my
worldly estate, wherewith it hath pleased God to bless
me, I hive, devise, and, dispose of the same in the manner following." Then follow two devises of "1 estates,))
burthened with the payment of debts and legacies,
which were.admitted to carry a fee; after, which came
thfe devise in question: " Item, I give unto my -loving
mother all my estate at,Northwith close, North closes,
and my farm held at Roomer, with *all my goods and
chattels as they now stand, for her natural life, and to
m y nephew Thomas Dodson, after he' death, !f he -will
but change his name to Beckwith; if he does not, Igive
him only .20, to be paid Iii or for his life out of Northwith close, North close; and the farm held at Roomer ;
which I give her upon my nephe iv's refusmg to change

LAxzzrr'a

LESSR
V:

112
LAUtg.RTs

Xz53z
.,

SUPREME.COURT, U. S.

hisname, to her and her heirs forever." The question
was, whether Thomas Dcdson took an estate for life,
-orin
fee. The Lord Chanc6llor decreed that he" took
Sthe fee; and said, that the word estate carries the fee, and
that no case had been, cited " to warrant the altering
the khown legalsignification of it." See also Gilb. Deh"case. of Bailis v. Gale, 2 Vez. 48,
vises, 25.' So in th
anno 1750, the testator devised to his wife all that estate
he bought of Mead for so long as she shall live; and
in another clause said, "Igive to my son, Charks Gale,
all that estate Ibought, of Head, after the death of my
wife." The Lord Chancellor said, that the word "estate
is admitted to be sufficient to make a description not
only of the land, but the interest in the land i" and he
held that the fee pasied to Charles.
The case of Hogan v. Yackson, Cowp. 306, shows
is sufficient to pass all the interest
word estate
that
thetestator
of the
inthe thing devised. So in the case of
.oveaeres v. Blight, cited from Cowp. 355, Lord Mansfield says, "1the word estate comprehends not only the
land or property a man'has, but also the interest he has
in it." And in Denn v. Gaskin, Cowp. 659, he puts the
words, " all my estate," as an example of at expression
tantamount to words of limitation.. See also the case
pf Hodges v. ilfiddletoh, Doug. 434, where the argu.
ment of counsel is strong to the samt, effect. All the
subsequent cases refer to that of Bqrry and Edgeworth,
P. Will. 523, arid none of them refer to that of Che.ter and Painter, in 2 P, Will. 335. The case of Right
v. Sidebotham, cited from Doug. 763, does not apply to
the present case,. as the words of that devise were,
" all my lands,' tenements and houses," and not all the
estate, as in our case. The authority from Gilb. on
Devises, p 24, is answered by p. 25 ; and.the reason
why a fee did not pass in the case in p. 24, is, because
the word estate was coupled with personalty. The case
of Frogmorton v. Wright, cited from , Wilson, 418,
had no words descriptive of the testator's interest, and
the case of Fletcher'v. Smiton, cited from 2 T. R. 660,
is a strong case to show that the word estates'will carry
the fee, unless restrained by other words, clearly showing a -contrary intention. A description of the place
capnot, in reason, restrict the operation of the word

FEBRTARY, 1805.

113

.estate, because, unless the place be named you cannot LAMIT-r'C
LESSZZ
tell either what land, or what estate the testator meant
V.

to pass.

But, it is said, there is a difference between the expressions, " all my estate," and "all the estate," and
that the former more clearly indicates the interest than
the latter. Nothing but the refinement of ingenious
men could finda diversity in these expressions. When
a testatdr.is disposing of his worldly affairs, it is his
own property that he means to dispose of, and not that
of another person. When, therefore, he uses the expression, the estate, it means the same as his estate. But
this subtlety of construction was soon exploded in express terms. It was suggested by the counsel, in the
case of Bailis v. Gale, 2 Vez. 48, but Lord Hardwicke
held, that it makes no difference which mode of expression is used.
So there was once an attempt made to distinguish
between the words "at" and "in," such a place; but
this was overruled by Lord Talbot, in the case of Ibbetson v. Beckwith, Ca. Temp. Talbot, 157. The word
"at' was used in the case in 2 Lev. 91, and in the case
before Lord Talbot.

But the word "in"

was used in

the case of Barry v. Edgeworth, 2 P. Will. 523 ; yet the
decisions in those cases were all the same way.
From this chronological view of cases, it seems
clear that the word estate, in a will, carries the whole
interest of the testator, unless there are other words
clearly ihdicating an intention to give a less estate. No

such words appear in the present will; hence it follows,
that the whole interest of the testator was devsed to
the defendant.
But, 2dly. If Doctor Gilmer took only a life-estaze,
yet the lessor of the .plaintiff is not entitled to recover.
1st. Because John Harmer stands before him in the
first will ; and if the doctrine of antenati is correct,
it applies to him as much as to Lambert, and therefore,
upoh the death of Doctor Gilmer, the estate vested
in John Harmer, who was the person last seised. But
Vol. III.

Q

SUPREME COUtRT U. S.
LAMBEsR'S

LESSEE
V.
PAIN.

the special verdict does not find LamlYert to be the heir
of John Harmer, but of George Harmer, which is
wholly immaterial. If Lambert is not the heir of the
Sperson last seised, he cannot recover.
For if the first
devi se to John Harmer took effect, the contingent devise to Lambert could not; and therefore, if the latter
is entitled at all, it must be as heir of John Harmer,
and not as'devisee of George .Harmer.
Equitable estates are governed by the same rules as
estates at law. George Harmer died in 1786; John
Harmer died in'1793. Either John Harmer was an
alien, or he was not. If he was npt an alien, then he
took under the devise, and it is not stated who was
his heir. If he was an alien, then he was or was
not competent to take as devisee. If competent to
take, then the record does not state Lambert to bc
his heir. If he was not competent to take under
the devise, neither is Lambert,,for the same reason.
But if Lambert can take as devisee, so could John
Harmer, and the lessor of the plaintiff must then show
a title under him. The will states John Harmer to be
the testator's brother, and Lambert to be his sister's
son; but itdoes not thence follow, that he was heir at
law of John Harmer ;.for the sister might be of the
half-blood.. Every thing must appear in the special
verdict to complete the plaintiff's title ; and upon the
strength of his own title only, can he recover.
But the doctrine of antenati is not correct. The
king, under whose allegiance the two were born, is the
common bond which connects the inheritable blood.
The English doctrine is, that a man can never expatriate himself, and hence they have allowed our citi.
zens, born before the revolution, to inherit to British
subjects. But, by the revolution of 1776, and the declaration of independence, new relations took place. A
new sovereignty was created, to which British subjects,
not in this country at that time, never owed alltgiance,
and, therefore they can have no inheritable bood as to
lands in this country.
But it is said that Lambert, if an alien, could take
and hold until office found.

FEBRUARY, 18W3.
If Lambert, as an alien, could take, so could John LAwnza-s
L-1SSE
Harmer, and therefore, upon his death, the inherit-

ance devolved upon the commonwealth, without office.
Co. Lit. 2. (b.) I Bac. Ab. 81. An alien can nevet take
by operation of law, and, therefore, a feme alien cannot
be endowed, nor can an alien be tenant by the courtesy.
1 Bac. Ab. 83. An alien purchasermay take and hold
till office found ; and may protect himself against an
ejectment, because no one who has not a better title,
can recoyer against the- possessor. But he cannot
maintain an ejectment. If J9hn Harmer took any
thing, it was the reversion in fee, subject to the
life-estate of Gilmer. If John Harmer -died before
Gilmer, then, upon the death of John Harmer, this
If Gilmer
reversion vested in the commonwealth.
died before John Harmer, then, upon the death of the
latter, the whole estate vested in the commonwealth.
Then, as to the treaty of 1794. John Harmer having died in 1793, and the ihheritance being, by his
death, cast upon the commonwealth, it was not a sub-

ject within the meaning of the treaty. John Lambert
did not, -atthat time, hold the land, for it had gone to
the commonwealth of Virginia., The treaty did not intend to divest a right actually vested in the commonwealth.

-

Mason, in reply. The word estate may mean the interest as well as the thing; but whether it is to have that
sense annexed to it or not, depends upon the intention of
the testator, collected from the whole circumstances of
the case. All the facts found by the verdict are to be
taken into consideration, to form a correct idea of the
testator's intention. By the first he clearly meant to give
the fee to his brother and his heirs. The second will does
not expressly revoke the first, and contains nothing which
can be construed into an implied total revocation, unlesq
the word estate conveys a fee to Doctor Gilmer. All the
cases which have been cited are governed entirely by the
intention oftie testator. Where the intention was to pass
a fee, there the word estate has been adjudged sufficient
to carry the intention into effect. The words "the estate
called Marrowbone," in common acceptation, mean the
tract of land called Marrowbone. They. cannot necessa-

p,.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
L MSERT's
LESSEE
V.

PAINE.

rily mean the fee simple, because the estate would still be
cailed Marrowbone, whether the interest was for life or
for years.
The case of Chester v. Painter, 2 P. Will. 336, has
not been overruled. It is consistent with all the other
cases. It did not appear to be the intention of the testator
to give the fee, and, therefore, although the word estate
was used, it was held that the fee did not pass. This
shows that the word estate is not alone sufficient. Where
words may be used in a large or in a contracted sense, the
true construction is to be sought only by the intention
of the person using them.
In the present will of 1786, there is no preamble stating it to be the intention of the testator to dispose of all
his estate by that will ; nor is there any residuary devise.
As the first wil is not expressly revoked, the two wills arc
to be considered as forming but one will. In such a case, the
rule of construction is, that every clause shall be carried
into effect, if possible. No repugnance shall be presumed,
if the whole can stand together ; and if one construction
will reconcile the various parts, and another will make
them repugnant, the former is to be adopted. To suppose
that the word estate, in the last will, conveyed the fee,
would be to create a repugnance to the first will, and,
therefore, that construction is not to be given to the word
if it will bear another. It must be admittedthat it may be
used in two senses. In one it means the thine and the interest ; in the other it means the thing only. The one
may be termed the technical, and the other the common
sense of the word. By giving it the latter construction,
the two parts of the will can be reconciled, and, therefore, that construction ought to he adopted.
It is conceded, that the legal estate in the trustees
cannot be set up against the cestui que trust. It ought also
to be admitted, that this doctrine holds between those
parties only ; but as to every body else, the trust and the
legal estate remain separate, to support the trust. In such
a case the commonwealth cannot take by office found, but
must sue in chancery to have the trust executed for it,
lefit.
It will not 'be contended, that the trustees were not
competent to take and hold the property in trust. The

FEBRUARY, 1805.

117

devises to John Harmer and John Lambert were contin- L unmuT's
LESSZv.
gent. If the contingency h2s not happened, the trustees
still hold for the purpose of executing the trust when the
PAINK.
contingency shall happen. John Harmer died in 1793, N..v-y-ft.,1
before the contingency happened upon which his devise
depended. Upon his death, John Lambert's right under
the will accrued. He had a title under the trust; and the
treaty of 1794 protects it. . The treaty is a nullity unless
it protects such rights as this. If it protects only good
and indefeasible titles, it is wholly useless, for such titles
can protectthemselves.
But if any right-vested in John Harmer, then the title
of Lambert is good as his heir at law. For the jury have
found him to be heir at law of George Harmer; but he
could not be the heir of George, if John left any children ; and if John left no children, then is Lambert heir
to John. The conclusion is irresistible ; as much so as if
the jury had found it, As to the objection that Lamberts

mother might be sister of the half-blood, it would prevent him from being heir to George as well as to John.
February 18.
This cause was again argued at this term by the same
counsel, before Cushing, Paterson,Washington and 7ohnson, Justices. - Marshall, Ch. J. having formerly been of

counsel for one of the parties, did not sit, and Chase, J.
was absent.
The argument took nearly the same course as before.
ZkMinor, for the plaintiff in error, in addition, to his argumint as already reported, contended that the rule of
the common law,' which requires words of limitation to
create a fee simple, was never departed from until after
the statute of wills ; and even then the courts did not depart from, but only softened the rule; and that only in
cases vhere the intention was clear to pass the fee. 2 Atk.
103, Timewell v. Perkins.

He then went into a minute examination of the following cases, viz. Cowp. 240, Beawes v. Blackest. 2 Vez. 48,
Bailis v. Gale. 2 Lev. 91, Wilson v. Robertson. 1 .1Mod.

100, S. C. 1 Salk. 236, Countess ofBridgewater v. Duke

118LAMBERT'S

LESSEE
V.
PAINE.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

ofBolton. "I Fez. 228, Goodwin v. Goodwin. Ca. Tentp.
Talbot, 84, Tanner v., Morse. 3 P, Will. 295. Tan.
ner v. Wyse. 2 Vern. 690, Beachcr'oft v. Beachcroft, and
Ca. Temp. Talbot, 157, Ibbetson V. Beckwith ; and from
the whule deduced this principle, that the intention of
the testator must be so clear as not to admit of a doubt ;
for if there is the smallest ground of doubt the court will
not disinherit the heir.
He also cited the case of llfarhant and Twisden, from
Ca. Eq. Ab. 21 1, . ,2,
where it was hcld, that thL words
"all the rest and residue of my estate, chattels real and
personal," carried only a life-estate ; and the case of Bowman v. AIbanke, 1 Lev. 130,ip which the words were,
" I give all to my mother, all to my mother." Yet there,
although ever feeling of the heart is engaged in' support
of that filial piety which could so fervently speak its in.
tention of giving his whole estate to his mother, it was
held, that the land did not pass. In our case, the feelings
are all thrown into the opposite scale : the devise is to a
stranger in exclusion of th heir; and that heir the very
brother to whose bounty the testator was indebted for
this very estate.
"Uncertain words in a will must never be carried so
far as to disinherit the heir at law. And though therb be
words which of themselves would disinherit him, yet, if
they come in company with other words which render
their import less forcible, they ought to bd construed favourably for the heir." 12 Mod. 594, Shaw v. ull, in
which case the words of the ,devise were, &andall the
overplus ofmy estate to be at my,wire's disfosal,and make
her my executrix."'
In the case of Moore v. Denn, 2 Bos. and Pul. 247,
the words of the will were, "First, I give and devise
unt9 my kinsman, Nicholas Lister, all that my customary
or copyhold messuage or tenement, with the appurtenances, situate and being in .Eccle feld aforesaid, as the
same is now in the tenure or occupation of Valentjn'
Sqkes ; all the rest of my lands, tenements, and hereditaments, either freehold or copyhold, whatsoever or
wheresoever, and also all my goods, chattels, and liersonal estate, of what nature or kind soever, after payment

FEBRUARY, 185.
of my just debts and funeral expenses, I give, devise
and bequeath the same unto my loving wife, Sissily, Carr,
and I do hereby, nominate and appoint her sole executrix
of this my last will and testament." Upon this devise it
was'decided by the House of Lords, on a writ of Vrror,
that the wife took only an estate for life.
In the present case, it is sufficient for us if the words
of the will-are doubtful ; for if the intention to devise the
fee is not clear beyond all doubt, the presumption is in
favour of the heir at law.
2. Upon the question of alienage, in addition to the
authorities produced on the former argument, he cited
Vaugfhan, 279, §5, and 286, § 3, that a person born in the
plantations may inherit lands in England ; and 2 Tucker's
edition of BL. Com. appendix, p. 53, 54, 61, 62, that the
antenati of England, who remained British subjects after the declaration of independeice, were still capable of
inheriting lands in America, or- of holding those which
they already possessed.*

Key, for defendant in error, upon the question of the
devise, took the same ground as in his former argument.t
There is a difference in the effect of the word estaie,
used in the preamble of a will, or in the residuary

-when

JoamsoN, J. Does not the last clause of the will of 1786, show
that'the testator meant, by that krill, to dispose of his -hole estate.2
Mason. That clause relates only to personal estate. The word
property is coupled with negroes and horses, which shows in what
sense he meant to use it. But if it comprehends the reversion of the
real estate, yet, a, he -kppointedno person to make the sale, the reversion would descend to the heir at law, until some person should
be appointed, by proper authority, to carry that clause of the will
into effect.
t WA IxaNTo-, J. Is the willof 1782 so executedand
-as to pass lands .

recbrded

Key. The jury have found that he executed it, and it is not necessary that a will of landt should be recorded under the laws of
England, and the law is considered the same in Maryland. I do
not object to the will on that account.

LAxnznwes

Poz'ez.

120
LASruT's
11ss
V. Z
PAINE.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

clause, and when used in a specific devise.

When used

in the devising- clause, it always carries the, whole inter-,
est of the testator in the thing deviged.
An argument has been drawn from the xmanner in
which the two other estates are 'described ; and it is said
that because they are not called estates, but tracts of
land, the devise clearly givesonly a life-estate in those
two tracts, and therefore it is to be presumed that the
testator only meant to give a life-estate in the Mkarrowbone tract; because he has coupled them all together bv,
the words "lihewise" and " also."'
But we say that be meant to give the fee of all the
tracts to George Gilmer, and that the words are sufficiently large tct carry.that intention into effect.
In the case of Cole v. Rawlinson, I Salk. 234, the words
'of the devise were, "I give, ratifyi and confirm, all my
estate, right,, tide and interest, whith I now have; and all
the term and terms of years which I nbw have, or may
have in my power to dispose of after my death, in whatever I hold by lease from Sir John Freeman, andalso thr
house called the Bell Tavern, to John Billingsley," and it
was adjudged that the fee of the Bell Tavern passed, by
force of the words " and also," which caused the preposition "in" to be understood; so as to read ,"and also in
the Bell Tavern." So, in the present case, the three'specific objects of the devise are connected by the words
"likewise" and "also," and you must apply the first
part of the devising clause to each subject, and read, it
thus: " likewise I give and bequeath unto Doctor
George Gilmer, of Albemarle county, all the estate in
one dther tract of land called 11orse.pasture.11 The
word "likewise" shows that he meant to give the same
interest in the two other 'tracts, which he had given in
Miarrowbone.
Upon the question of alienag-e, he contended, that by
the common law, every man is an alien to that governTent under whose allegiance he was not born. The capacity to inherit results from the fact that the heir and
ancestor both owe allegiance to the sovereign of the
country where the lands lie. The right of inheritance is

FEBRUARY, 1805.

121

n z a
'S
derived dnly through one common sovereign. The alle- LAxID w
giance doe to that sovereign is the commune vinculum
which connects the heir with his ancestor as to the tenure
PAIz.
of lands. This common allegiance must exist at the
time of the birth of the heir, and continue unbroken till
-the time of the descent. If this allegiance is not to be
confined to the sovereign of the country where the lands
'lie, ii would follow, that where the ancestor and heir
were both natural bdrn 'ubjects of a foreign state, (for instafice, subjects of France) andthe ancestor should be
naturalized in- this country, and become a purchhser of
lands here, the heir, although not naturalized, would still
have a right to inherit those lands; because they both
owed allegiance to France, their common and natural
sovereign.

The American antenatimay inherit lands in England,
because the ancestor and heir both owed a common allegiance to the soverei n of that country, where the lands
lie. But the British antenati nevei owed allegiance to the
goyernment of this cotntry, and, therefore, the British
heir cannot inherit the American lands of his American
ancetor.
if, then, the capacity to inherit depends upon a common 'legi'ance to the sovereign of that country where
the lands arei it will follow, that when that common
allegiance ceases to exist, the capacity to inherit must
ceae als6.- The common allegiance to the sovereign
of this country ceased by the declaration of indepen"denc&, br, at least, when that independence was acknowledged by the king of Great Britain; at the treaty of
peace, whereby he assented to the withdrawing our
allegiance ; and, the principle of the comni-on law, that
natural allegiance must be perpetual,.is not so rigid, but
that it may be .'haken 6ff with the assent of the sovei
reign to whom it was due. For in I H. H. P. C. 6%.
Lord Hale says, ."1that though there may be due from
the same person, subordinate alhgiances," "yet there
cannot, or, at le'ast, should not, be two or more co.ordii.ate-absolute allegiances, by one person, to severl in.,
dependent or absolute princes; for that lawful prince
that hath the prior obligation of allegiance from his
subject, cannot lose that interest-without his 'own .conVOL i.
R

SUPREME COURT U. S.

Lhx,,Ir's sent, by his subject's resigning himself to the subjec.'L&SSEE

V.
PAI2.
u

tion of another; and hence it is, that the natural born
"subject-of one prince, cannot, by swearing allegiance to
another prince, put off' or discharge him from that natural allegiance ;..for this natural allegiance was intt in.
sic and primitive, and antecedent to the other, and
cannot be- divested -without the concurrent act of that
prince to -whom it was first due. Indeed, the subject of
a prince, to whom he owes allegiance, may entangle
himself, by his absolute subjecting himself to another
prince,, which may bring him into great straits ; but h8
cannot, by such a subjection, divest the, right of subjection and allegiance that he first owed to his lawful
prince."
Hence, it is clearly the opinion of Lord Hale, that
natural allegiance may be divested and dissolved, with
the concurrent act of that prince to whom it was due
and by anote of the editor, in the samepageit seems that
the doctrine of perpetual allegiance, refers only to apri.
vate subject's swearing allegiance to a foreign prince,
and has no relation to a national withdrawing of allegiance.
If the American revolutipn is to be considered as
such a national withdrawing of allegiance, ;hen that
*ithdrawing was complete and perfect, even before the
assent of the king of England was obtained, aind the
American antenati are as totally absolved from all allegjance to the British 'king, as if'they had been natural born aliens;
There being, then, no common allegiance betweep the
british and the American antenati, at the time of the
descent cast, -there can be no capacity to inherit the one
to the other, even were it not necessary that the com.
tnon allegiance should be to the sovereign of the country where the lands lie.

.Lord Hale, also, in tlhe same page, shows in what
sense Lord Coke, in Calvin's case, and Bracton before
him, have used the expression, " ad fidem utriusque
tegis." He says, "it appears by Bracton,, that there
were very- many that had been antiently. adfldem reis

FEBRUARY, 180s.'

123

.Angfie et Francihr, especially before the loss. of Nor- L^n.aa.
mand%; such were the comes maresckallus that usually

L"GrGE

lived in England, and O. de Faynes, manens in Francia,
who were adftdem utriusqueregis, but they exir ordered their homages andfealties, so that they swore or professedigeance,orlige-homage only! o one/and the homage
they peiformed to the other, -was not purely lige-ho.
mage, but ratherfeudal, as shall be shown more hereafter ; and, therefore, when war happened between
the two crowns, remaneat personaliter quilibet eorum
cum ei, cui fecerat ligeantiam, etfaciat servitium debiturn ei cum quo non steterat in persona, namely, the service due from the feud or fee he holds.?'

p V*

The opinion of the court in Caltinscase, 27, that if
the kingdoms of England and Scotland " should be,
by descent, again divided and governea by several
kings,"- "those born under one natural obedience, while
the realms were united under one sovereign, would remain natural born subjects, and not aliens," was at
least an extrajudicial opihion ; and it is not very clear
what is the meaning of it. Does it mean that they
would be natural burn subjects of both kingdoms, or
only of that which should remain governed by the same
king?. If the former, yet the case is not parallel to
ours. Ours is a case where a new sovereignty has
sprung up, and no person could be born under its allegiance before its existence. According to Calvin's
case, allegiance does not depend upon the country in
which the person is born, but upon the obedience and
subjection of that country at the time of the birth. A
person, therefore, born before the independence of the
United States, cannot be called a naturdLborn subject
of the United States ; and if he was not here at the
time of the revolution, he cannot maintain a suit, as to
lands in this country, but by virtue of' some express stipulation in a treaty.
Mason, in reply, If the declaration of independence, and the treaty, totally divested all allegiance, so
1hat the British antenati are aliens to us, it would
equally makd American antenatialiens to the British.
But we all know that cases have happened, in which
American antenati have been adjudged capable of in-

SUPREME COURT U. S.
LAX13RT's
LESSE.

PAINE.
y

heriting landi in Great Britain ; arid if those British
decisions were correct, they must haie been grounded
upon the principle, that our antenati were not aliens to
the king of Great Britain; and if the declaration of
independence did not make us aliens to them, it could
not make them aliens to us.
The American revolution only discharged the political relation which subsisted between us and the
crown of England. - It did not destroy individual
rights or capacities. The revolution was to accom.
plish a great national object. No one individual can
be charged with it. It was a national act, to maintain
national rights, and only such rights were affected by
it. It only absolved our allegiance, but did not ex fiecessitate, take away the capacity to inherit.
CUSHING, J. Are not allegiance, and the capacity to
inherit, connected together

NYason. Yes; and therefore the dommon law will not
consider the allegiance so totally absolved as to make
him anm alien who was born a subject, and thereby deprive him of the right of inheritance.
Although, by the act of Virginia, in 1779, Lambert
was to be considered as an alien, and incapable to sue,
&c. yet that act was repealed by the treaties, and
therefore he stands just where hedid' before the revolution.
The private rights of individuals were not affected
by the revolution, except by the laws of the several
states.
The object of the treaties was to put indiiduals as
nearly as possible on the saz'e, footing as before the
revolution ; and the words of the treaties are suffi.
ciently large to accomplish that purpose. They* are;
" and that no persoft shall, on that account, suffer any
future loss or damage." If Lambert is on that account
to be deprived of his right of inheritante, it will be
such a loss, and damage, as will be a violatioin of the
treaty of 1783.

FEBRUARY, 1805.

What is cominon law in England, is common law in
.
Virginia; what is law and justice
there, is law and
justice here.

Policy, justice, and magnanimity require that we
should apply the same beneficial rule to them, which
they have extended to us.
PATERSON, J. Would not the decisions ha,e been
the same in England, if there had been no such article
in the treaty?

Mason. Yes, if there are no British statutes to pfevent it; and the decisions would have been similar
in Virginia, if there were no act of assembly on the
subject.
In this position, I am supported by a very learned
judge in Virginia, (Judge Tucker) who is not suspect.
ed of any improper partiality to Great Britain, or her
subjects. In his notes to Blachstone's Cpmmentaries,
vol. 2, Appendix, p. 53.& 54, he says, " all persons
born within the United States, whilst colonies of Great
Britain, were natural born subjects of the crown of
Great Britain." " The natives of the colonies, and the
natives of the parent state, were, in consequence
thereof, of equal capacity to inherit or hold lands in
the different parts of the British empire, as if they
had been born, and their lands situated in the same
country. And in fact, many native Americans did hold
estates in England, and on the other hand, great
numbers of the natives of Great Britain, who had never
been in America, possessed estates in lands in the
colonies.
"By the declaration of independence, the colonies became a separate nation from Great Britain; yet, according to the principles of the laws of England, which
are still retained, the natives of both countries, born
before the separation, retained all the rights of birth;
or, in other words, American natives were still capable of inherititg lands in England, and the natives of
England, who remained subjects of the crown of Great
Britain, were still capable of inheriting'lands in Ame.

LAmnzaT's

"'S"V.
PAI:.L

126

SUPREME COURT U. S.'.

L. MBERT's
,LESSEE

rica, or, of holding those which they already possess.
ed." Aipd again, in page .61, he says, " By the common

PAIN..

law, upon the separation between America and Great

y

Britain taking place, the natives of Great Britain were

constructively natural born in America, and, notwithstanding that separation, mijlt hold lands here, as if
they had been residents in America." After mention.
ing the act of assembly of Virginia, of .Aay, 17Y9,
c. 55,. by which they were declared aliens, he says,
"by the treaty of peace, the common law principle, that
the antenati of both countries, were natural born to
both, and as such, capable of holding, or. inheriting
in both, seems to have been revived ; in consequence
of which, they are now capable of holding, purchasing,
or inheriting in the same manner as if they were citizens.'
As to the-quiestion of the devise, it is not denird
that the word estate ;a sufficiently large to carry tire
,fee ; nor, that the intention of the testator is to govern
the construction of the will.
But, we contend that the word estate is not aloni
sufficient to carry the fee. It is only a word which
courts will lay hold of, to effectuate the intention of the
testator: but then the intention to pass a fee, must bt
clear beyond all manner of doubt, befQre the court'will
disinherit the heir at law..
Mar/h 1.
The judges now delivered their opinions seriatim
JoHNsoN, J. This is a writ of error from the cir.
cuit court of Virginia to reverse a judgment in ejectment given-for the defendant.
The circumstances of the case come out on a special
Verdict, from which it appears, that George Harmer,
under whom both parties claim, was a citizen of the
state of Virginia. That on the 25th June, 1782, he
made a will, by which he devised "a l l the estate both
real and personal which (he) possessed or was entitled
to in the commohwealth of Virginia," to certain trus-

FEBRUARY, 18d5.

-

127

tees, "1in trust and upon these conditions : that when

LA)(z- 7T1S

John Harmer, (his) brother, (then) a subject of Great
Britain, shallbe capable of acquiring property inthis
country, then they, or the survivor of them, do convey
or caug to be conveyed to him, in fee simple, a good
and indefeasible title in. the said estate ;" and in case
Johq Harmer should not be capable of acquiring such
right before his death, he then directs. the conveyance
t6 be executed to his nephew, thie plaintiff; and in case
of his not being capable of acquiring lands before his
death, he directs the esiate to be sold-and the proceeds
paid over to other relations.

V.
P&zzr

In the year 1786 George Harmer executes another
will, which, as evety part of it is material to the case
before us, I will peruse at length. (Here hlread the will
of 1786.) The testator died soon after executing the last
mentioned Will. His brother, John Harnier, died in
1793, having never become a citizen.

The iury further find that John Lambert, -the plaintiff, is a British subject, was born before the.revolution, viz, in the year 1752, and is heir at law to the testator. The treaties with Great Britain, and'an act of
Virginia, vesting in George Gilmer any interest that
may have escheated, are also found in the-verdict; The
land sued for, is a part of the Marrowbone tract. The

questions suggested are,
I.What estate is conveyed to Ge6rge Gilmer by the
willof 1786 ?
2. If but an estate for life, does the will of 1782 re-main unrevoked as to the remainder, so as to convey it
to the plaittiff?
3. And last. Is John Lambert disqualified to inherit
.as an alien ; or, if incapable, generally as such, is he
not protected by the treaties existing between this go.
vernment and Great Britain, particularly the 4th article
of the treaty of London?

To form a judgment gn the first poixt, it is necessary
to consider,

128
3L4MrEVT'$
L'

SE,

V.
PAtNS.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

1. The general import and effect of the word estate,
.
as applied to a devise of realty.
-

Whether its general import id controuled or altered by the subsequeint words used in a similar sens.
in the will of ,1786.

S2.

I consider the doctrine as well established" that the
word estate, n*ade use of in a devise, of realty, will
carry a fee,:or whatever other interest the devisor possesses. And I feel no disposition to vary the legal effect of the word, whether preceded by my or the, or
followed by at orin,. or in the singular or plural number. The intent with which it is used, is the decisive
consideration; and I should not feel myself sanctioned
in refining away the operation of that intent, by discriminations so minute, as those which have been attempt.
ed at differefit stages of 'English jurisprudence.
The word estate, in testamentary cases, is sufficiently descriptive both of the subject and the interest e*isting in it. It is unquestionably true, that its meaning
may be restricted by. circumstances 'or expressions indicative- of its being used in a limited or particular
sense, so as to confine it to the subject alone ; but certainly, in its general use, it is understood to apply more
pertinently to the interest in the subject. To 'one not
accustomed to the discriminations of technical refinemenit, it would seem that no doubt could be entertained
as to the interest devised to Gilmer. The plain, ordinary 'import of the words would convey the idea of
an absolute disposition of every article of property disposed of by the will. That words of inheritance arq
necessary to convey a fee, is certainly a good general
rule of the 6ommon law; but, in the case of wills, it is
entirely subordinate to expressions of the testator's in.
tention.

In the case before us, there is no necessity for extending the decision of the court beyood the words made
use of in disposing of the Marrowbone tract. But it
is contended, that the words adopted by the testator, in
devising the two other tracts, are used in the same sense
as those in the first devising clause, and being of at

FEBRUARY, 1805.

129

more restricted signification, ought to limit the word
estate.to - description of the mere locality. I think
otherwise. When a word is made, use of to which a
clear legal signification has been attached by successive
adjudications, it ought rather, in my estimation, to con.
troul the meaning of those of a more equivocal purport.
But the construction of a will ought to depend much
more upon the evident intent of the testator, than upon
the strict import of any term that he may make use of.
Too critical an "examination of the diction of a will is
rather calculated.to mislead the court, than to conduct
it to a just conclusion.
I infer the intent of the testator, in the case before
us, from the following circumstances, extracted from the
special verdict.
1. In the first cliuse of the will of 1782, the testator
makes use of the expression " althe estate both real
and personal which I possess or am entitled to in the
commonwealth of Virginia," evidently under an impression that the word estate is sufficient to convey a
fee ; because, out of the estate, thus devised to his trustees, he instructs them to convey to his brother, or ne#
phew, in the alternative stated, a good and indefeasible
title in fee simple,
2, There is no reason to infer, from any thing in this
ease, that the testator intended only to make a partial
disposition of his property; that he intended to die
intestate as to any part of it. The fair presumption
generally is, that he who enters upon making a will, intends to make a full distribution of every thing that he
possesses. That such was the particular intention of
this testator, I think fairly inferible from the general
nature of the residuary bequest. The word other, in
my opinion, is referible to the whole preceding iart of
the will, and excludes, as well the lands devised to Gilmer, as the negroes and horses which he directs to be
sold. We must give itthis construction, or else suppose,
either that the word property, here used, is confined
to personalty, -or, that it includes every thing that he
possessed, both real and personal; in which latter case
it would comprise even the lands previously disposed
Vol. Ill
.

LAMSZrT'S

PAz

.

130
LAmiEILT's
LESS.E
V.

PAItt.

\in

of.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
It follows, therefore, that in the clause in which

he proposes to dispose of the whole residpe of his pro.
perty, he omits making any disposition of any interest
the lands in question ; evidently, as it irhpresses me,
upon the supposition that he had already disposed of
his whole interest in them. What object could the tea'tator propose to himself by dying intestate as to the
remainder, in fee, in the lands in question? He kneW
that his heir at law was an alien, aid, as such, incapable
of holding lands under a government to which he did
not owe allegiance. This circumstance is evident from
the will of 1782 ; and it is equally evident, from the
same will, that he felt that repugnance, which is common to all men, at the idea of suffering his lands to escheat, and knew the means of preventing it.
I am, therefore,'of opinion, upon the first point, that
George Gilmer took a fee in the land, which is the subject of this suit ;, apd this opinion disposes, also of the
second point, and renders it unnecessary for me to consider the third.
WASHINGTON, J'." The only question in this cause
which I mean to consider is, whether the will of George
Harmer, made in 1786, -passes to George Gilmer an estate in fee, or for life in the Marrowbone land. The
words of the clause containing the bequest are, "I give
to'Doctor George Gilmer, of Albemarle county, all the
estate called .Marrowbone, lying in Henry county, containing, byestimation, 2,585 acres, and likewise, one other
tract called Horse-pasture, containing, by estimation,
2,500 acres ; also one other tract containing, by estimation, 667 1-2 acres, called Poison-field.

The rule of law most certainly is, that where, in a devise
of real estate, there are no words of limitation superadded
to the general words of bequest; nothing passes but an estate
for life ; but since, in most cases, this rule goes to defeat
the probable intention of the testator, who, in general, is
unacquainted with technical phrases, and is presumed to
mean a disposition of his whole interest, unless he uses
words of limitation, courts, to effectuate this intention,
will lay hold of general expressions in the will, which,
,from their legal import, comprehend the whole interest

FEBRUARY, 1805.

131

of the testator in the thiing devised. But if other words-be
used, restraining the meaning of the general expressions,
so as to render it doubtful whether the testator intended
to pass his whole interest or not, the rule of law which
favours the right of the heir must prevail. Thus, it has
been determined, that the words "all my esfate at or in
such a place," unless limited and restrained by other
words, may be resorted to as evidence of an intention to
pass, not only the land itself, but also, the interest which
the testator had in it. But words which import nothing
more than a specification of the thing devised, as "1all my
lands," "all my -farms,". and the like, have never been
construed to pass more than an estate for life, even when
aided by an introductory clause, idcaring an intention to
ditpose of all his estate. Except for the establishment of
general principles, very little aid can be procured from adjudged cases in thq construction of wills. ht ldom happens that two cases can be found precisely alike, and in
the present instance, I do not recollect that a single.one
was read at the bar which bears an analogy to it. TNie case
of Wilson and Robinson, which comes the nearest to it, is
of doubtful authority. No reasons are given by the court
for their opinion, and, consequently, it is impossible to
it was or *as not influenced by other parts
'know
of .thewhether
will. lbbetson
v. Beckwith was decided upon a
the inheritance arising out of the
intent
to
pass
manifest
different parts of the will taken together, amongst which
is to be found an introductory clause which, the chancellor says, -affords evidence that the testator had in view his
whole estate. The cases of the Countess of Bridgewater
v. the Duke of Bolton, and Bailis v. Gale, only lay down
the general principle which is not denied, that the word
"estate"in a will, standing alone, and unqualified by other
words, is sufficient to pass the whole of the testator's interest. The words "all my land and estate," in the case
of Barru and Edgeworth express so plainly an intention
to give a fee, that I only wonder'a question could have
been made of it. They are quite as strong as if the testator had given the land, and all his interest in the land,
where the word estate or interest, unless construed, as
was done in that case, would have been perfectly nugatory. In Goodwin v. Goodwin, the chancellor doubted
whether the word estate was not so limited and restrained
by strong words of locality and description as to deprive
it of the interpretation generally given to it.

LA&Euus

LESZE
PA1.*S.

SUPREME COURT 'U. S.
,LAUBERT'S

;ESSEE
P~AJI.
y

In the case now under consideration, there is no intro-

ductury clause declaratory of an intention ih the testator
to dispose of the whole of his estate ; yet, I admit, that
if he had devised all his estate called Marrowbone, with-

out using other words calculated to limit the technical
meaning of the word estate, the cases cited by the defendants counsel would establish, beyond a doubt, that a
fee passed. But I cannot read this clause of thvwilU without feeling satisfied that the testator did not mean to use
the word estate in its technical sense. For he not only
varies the description of the tracts of land called Horsepasture and Poison-fleld, so as to show that, with respect
to them, he only meant to describe their situation and
quantity ; but, by using the word "other," it is plain, that
with respect to the Mfarrowbone estate, his design wis
the same. Unless, in the disposition of this latter estate, he had described, or intended to describe it as so
.muchland, he could not, with any propriety, speak of the
Hbrse-pastureestate as another tract of land. It will
haidly be said that the devise of the last tracts pass more
ihan an eitate for life, unless the word 'estate, before used,
can be transferred to those tracts, so as to impart to the
expressions there used, the technical meaning given to the
word estate where it stands alone. But I cannot perceive
how this is to be done without supplying words not used
by the testator, and which' there is no necessity for doing
in order to make sense of the clause as it stands. It would,
.Ithink, be going too far to supply more than is necessary
to make each deise a complete sentence, and then to in.
troduce the preposition", in" for the purpose of making
sense of the: whole. Yet, if this be not done, the word
estate cannot, in respect to the Horse-pasture and Poison-feld tracts, be pressed into the service, 'and made in
any manner to fit the sentence.
If only an estate for life in the Horse-pasture and
Poison-feld tracts passed to George Gilmer, it ,will, I
think, be very difficult to maintain, that the word estate,
in the same sentence, governed by the same verb, and
doupled with the words which describe those tracts of
lAnd, can be construed to pass a fee.
The testator certainly uses the words estate and tract
of land, as synonimous expressions; and then the question will be, whether the generality of the first shall en-

FEBRUARY, 18o5.
large the plain and usual import of the latter 'words, or
the -latter restrain the technical meaning of the former?
I know of no case where the word estate is used at all,
in which its general import is limited and restrained by
so many and such strong expressions descriptive of the
land, and totally inapplicable to the interest of the testator, as in. the present. The words, the estate called Mfarrowbone lying in Henry county, containing, by estimation, so many -acres, excite, at first, no other ideas than
such as respect the naine and situation of the land, with
the number of acres contained in it. The description
would be equally accurate, whether the interest of the
testator'were a fee, or a term for years.
If, then, we are to search after and to effectuate the intentions of men supposed to be unacquainted with legal
phrases, qnd are, on that account, t? construe the words
they use with indulgence, I think we shall be more likely
to fulfil this 'duty by limiting the general import of a
technical -word, which, in its common use, is. entirely
equivocal, and is rendered particularly ambiguous in this
case by the words which immediately attend it, than by
giving to the words tract of land, a meaning which they
do not, inthemselves, import, and are seldom, if ever,
used to express more .than a local description of the thing
itself.
As the opinion of a majority of the court is in favour
of the defendant upon the construction of the will, I do
not think it necessary to say any thing upon the doctrine
of alienage,'as that question may possibly come on in
some other case, in which it must be decided.
PATERSON, J. The devise in the will of George
Harmer, was intended to convey some interest in the
1fariowbone farm to George Gilmer; and the quantity
of interest, whether for life or in fee, is the question now
-to be considered.
It is a fundamental maxim, upon
which the construction of every will must depend, that
the intention of the testator, as disclosed by the will,
shall be fully and punctually carried into effect, if it be
not in contradiction to some established rule of law. In
such case, the intention must yield to the rule. This intendon is to be collected from the instrument itself, and
not from extrinsic circumstances; and, therefore, the

LA.unT%
LESSSE

PA,!S.

134

SUPREME COURT U. S.

L A'uBRT'S will ofA can afford little or no aid in discovering the in.
L'ZSS.
tention and expounding the Will of B. Indeed, the numV.
ber of cases which are usually cited in arguments on dePAINE.
tend to obscure rather than to illuminate. When,
however, a particular expression in a will has received a
definite meaning, by express adjuaicatiorils, such definite
meaning must be adhered to, for the sake of uniformity of
decision, and of security in the disposal of landed property. It cannot be questioned, that the word "estate"
will carry -every thing, both the land and the interest in
it, unless it be restrained by particular expressions ; for
estate is genus generalissimuni, and comprehends both
the land and the inheritance. 1 Salk. 236. 6 Nod. 106.
Pr.Ch. 264. 2 P. 1. 524. Ca. Tem. Talbot, 157. 1
Vez. 226. 2 Vez. 179. 3 Atk. 486. 5 Bur. 2638. 1 Trrin
Rep. 411. The word " estate" is the most general, significant, and operative, that can be used in a w.ll, and, according to all the cases, may embrace every degree and
species of interest. If the word "1estate" stand by itself, as if a man devise "all his estate to A," it carries a
fee from its established and legal import and operation.
Standing thus per se, it marks thl intention of the testator, pabses the inheritance to theldevisee, and controuls
the rule in favour of the heir at law. It is true, that this
word, when coupled with things that are personal only,
shall be restrained to the personalty. Noscitur a sociis.
The word " estate" may also, from the partiqular phraseology, connected with the apparent intent of the testator,
assume a local form and habitation, so as to limit its sense
to the land itself. Here uncommon particularity of description is requisite, so as to leave the mind perfectly
satisfied,-that the thing only was in contemplation, and nothing more. A description merely local cannot be extended beyond locality, without departing from the obvious import of the words ; and thus making, instead of
construing the will of the testator. But when no words
ard made use of to manifest the intention of the testator
that the term "estate" should be taken, not in a general,
but in a limited signification, then it will pass a'fee ; because the law declares, that it designates and comprehends both'the subject and the interest. Nay, such is the
legal iinport and operation of the word " estate," that it
carries a fee, even when expressions of locality are annexed. To illustrate this position by apposite and adSvises,

FEBRUARY, 1805.
,judged cases : If a man, in his will, says, "I give all my L.uar's
LESSEE
estate in A," it has been held, that the whole of the testaV.
PA;E.
tor's interest in such particular lands passed to the devisee;
though no words of limitation are added. 2 P. VilL. 5-24.
So the word "estate" was held to carry a fee, though it
denoted locality, " as my estate at Kirby-Hall." 2 Atk.
37. Tuffnel v. Page. S. C. Barn. Cha. R. 9. On which
Lord Llardwicke observed, that though this is a locality,
yet the question is, whether it is such a locality as is sufficient to show the testator's intention merely to be to convev the lands themselves, and not the interest in them.
H e was of opinion, that the words were descriptive both
of the local situation, and the quantity of interest. And
in Ibbetson v. Beckwith, Lord Talbot observed, that the
word " estate," in its proper, legal sense, means the inheritan46e, and carries a fee. Why, indeed, may not locality and interest be conne.cted, and the same words express and convey both ? To exclude interest in the subject, the expressions coupled with the word " estate"
must be so restrictive and local in their nature, as to convey solely the idea of locality, and not to comprehend
the quantum of interest, without doing violence to the
words and intention of the testator. Besides, it is a just
remark, repeatedly made.by Lord Hardwicke and Lord
M-nsfleld, that where a general devise of land is narrowed down to an estate for life, the intention of the testator
is commonly defeated, because people do not distinguish
between real and personal property; and,'indeed, "common sense would never teach a man the difference ; and
therefore, judges have endeavoured to make the word
"1estate," in a will, amount to a devise of the whole interest, unless unequiv6cal anid strong expressions are added
to restrict its general signification. It would be a laborious and useless task, to enter into a minute and critical
investigation of th*e great variety of cases which bear on
this subject. They are collected in a note by the editor of
WzIles' Reports, :296.
From the whole scope and complexion of the will of
George Harmer, it is evident to-my mind, that the tistator intended to dispose of all his property, both with regard to the_quantity and 'quality thereof. He did not
mean to die intestate as to any part of his estate ; but, on
the contrary, it was his manifest intention to leave nothing
undisposed of by-his will. He directs that all his negroes,

136
LAxBERT's

LESSEZ
V.

PAU .

SUPREME COURT U. S.

horses, and other property bh sold, &c. which plainly indicates what his intention was in regard to ihe lands
which he had previously devised.
This last clause
and illustrates the meaning of the testator, and
removes every particle of doubt from my mind, as to the
true construction which ought to be put on the word

Sevinces

" estate." . To effectutte this intention, the term " estate" is to be taken in its largest signification, as comprehending, both the subject and the interest, the land and
the inheritance.
Amidst the great mass of cases arising on wills, it
is impossible to select any two, that are exactly similar. The variety of expressions is infinite ; and it ig
from the language, that we are to discover the intent.
The same wbrd, indeed, may be taken in a different
sense in different wills, and even in different parts of

the same will, owing to its juxtaposition, its associations, and the manner in which it is placed and used.
The case of Bailis v. Gale, in 2 Pez. 48, may serve to
elucidate the'devise under review, in more points thart
one. " I give to my son, Charles Gale, all that estate
I bought of Mead, after the death of my Wife." These
expressions seem strongly to mark locality in contradistinction' to interest. But, what says my Lord Hardwicke P " I am of opinion, that. both the thing itself,
and the estate, property, and interest the testator htdd,
pass by the devise. Several questions have arisen In
courts, of law and equity on devises of this kind ; but,
all the latter determinations have exterided and leaned
as much as possible to make words of this kind comprehend, not 'only the thing given, but the estate and
interest the testator had therein. But, it is objected,
the pronoun " my" is not added ; there was no occasion for it. It was necessary he should use 'such
words as p6int out the whole interest in the land, which
is sufficiently done- by the other words ; for he bought
of Mead, the land and the fee simple in the land;
which is agreeable to the construction of the word
estate, being sufficient to describe the thing, and the
interest, as it is in the case of all my estate." So, in
tfie present will, the words, " I give all the estate
called Marro-wbone," contain a description of the land,
and the interest in it. The case in Fez. is particu.

FEBRUARY, 1805.

137

larly applicable, and *orthy of attention in another
respect, as it affords~a complete answer to the dis6
tinction, 'which was ingeniously riised, and attempted
'to be sustained between the impoit of the word "my"
and," the," in devises like the present. The coun.
sel for Lambert contended, that the Word' the, " - ill
-the estate," Was descriptive of the thing; whereas, th4
word Ay, " all my estate," was *descriptive of thi:
interest as *wellas ' of the thing. But, in the case of
B ail's v. -Gale,'Lord Hardwiche held, with great clearness,' that there *as no diffqrence between a devise
of all my estate at N, and a devise of if the estate at
N; ajd that a fee passed in either case" " Nor ought
this'opiiion to be cohsldered as extrajudicial ; for the
counsel in Bajils v. qale insisted, that the pjonoun my
was necessary to make the devise carry a fee; and,
therefore, it claimed, very properly, the notice and de-

cisi'dn of the court. According to this opinion, a devisp
of the estate called Marrowbone, in the county of
Henry, must have precisely the same conetruction and,
effect, as a devise of all my estate called Marrowbone,
in the county of Henry; which, it-appears to me, w ould
unquestionably give a fee.
* Some. expressions in a will, as; ".I give my farm,
my plantation, my house, my land," do, of themselves,
contairt no more than a description of the thing, and
carry only an estate, for life, b.ecause unconnected
with wards of inheritance, or other words of a similar
import. For we are not permitted to enlarge the estate
of a devise, imless the w6rds of the devise itself be
sufficient 'for that purpose. hi-the present devise,
the words, " all the estate called _arrowbone," are
competent to carry the degree of' interest contended
for on the part of the defendant; and this construction accords with the inteition of the testator, as disclosed by his. will.* Whether it would not have been
more beneficial to society to haVe observed, from the
first, the same technical phraseology and strictness of
legal terms in' devises, as in conveyarices of landed
property, is a question which may amuse the theo.
retical jurist; but which,-as judges, we canlot seriously
discuss; for it. is a leading axiom in o'Cir system of
jurisprudence, ndt to be shaken by judicial authority;
VoL MI.

T

L-_%tz*XnT

LZSSZ
T.

SUPRlEME COURT U. S.
UZaryt-'s
$.ESSEE

v.
4$.

.that the intent of the testator, so far as it is consistent
with the principles of law, must be attended to, and
rontroul the decision. I am, therefore, of opinion, that
Sthe
words, ILgive to George Gilmer all the estate
called Marrowbone, in the county of Henry," give a
fee, beingdescriptive equally of the quantity of interest,
and locality of the thing devised,
CVsHING, J. The first question in this,case is, whether the devise to George Gilmer, in the will of George
Harmer, made in i786, carrie a fee by the words " all
the estate clled Ml'arrowbone, in the county of Henry,
containing, by estimation, 2,585 acres of land," &c.

Wills are expounded more favourably, to carry the
intent of the testator into effect, than conveyances at
common law, which take effect in the life-time of-the
parties; wills beitig frequently made by people enfeebled by age or indisposition, apd without the aid of
council learned in the law.. Therefore, words not so
technical for the purpose, have, in a great variety of
eases, for above a hundredyears, been construed by the
judges, to carry a' fee, which would not do so in a
deed.
In a number of cases, the word "estate" has been de.
termined to compreheild the whole interest in the land.
Amiiong those adduced, there are several which appear'
to me essentially in point to the present case.
'In the case, 2 Lev. 91, (a case which has since been
held, by g6od judges, to be good law) -a devise of" all
my tenant-right estate, at.B. in Underbarrow,". was determined to import a fee.
I see no essential difference between that case and
this ; except the particle "the" instead'of the pronoun
"mmy," *'hich, in common sense, and ity tho opinion of
Lord Hardwicke, makes no difference. "All. the estate"
is, at le~st,,as extensive an.4 comprehensive as "all my
estate."
In 2 P. Will. 523, the,words "all my lands and estate
in upper Catesby, in Northamptoxshire," were adjudg..

-FEBRUARY, 1805.

139

ed to carry a fee. That agrees with the case at bar,
except that the word "lands' precedes " es t at e ," which
I think immaterial. "Evat" is the most operative
word.
In the case of Bailis v. Gale, 2 Pez. 48, a devise of
"all thdt estate that I boughrt-of Mead," was determined
by Lord Hardwicke o b e'of a fee. - This, I think, is
substantially like the case at bar ; and by him, that
the, or my, makes no material difference. Add to thls
what seems to make the point conclusive, the testator
appears to have a design to fdispose of his whole
estate.
The other cases cited. do not appear to'contradict
'these; but varying in some circumstances, seem not so
directly .applicable ; yet, by the spirit and reasoning
attending them, they teiod to 'oifirm the rectitude of the.
other decisiotis which are more directly in point.
The latter part of the devise in question, of several
tracts of land immediately succeedingthe devise of "all
the estate called Marrowbone,in the county of Henry,"
&c. if considered as not carrying a fee, I conceive,
would not, however co ntroul or restrict the prior part
of the devise of "1all the estate called Harrowbone,1
&c. Rather than that, I should suppose the former part.
would carry spirit an d meaning tor the latter. But that
is not necessary now to be determined.
The first poifit being determined in favour of tht
defendant, the former'judgme4t must be affirmcd,

LA sz
LESS5

Ps.

-es

