SUPREME COURT U. S.
"MALLr
V.
SRkT.TrCK

cargo were lost, it is not conceived, that lieutenant
lMaley ought to be charged with the costs of a subsequent
in ffertual attempt, not made at his instance, to repiur
.the original neglect.
What may be the claim of Shattuck, on the government of the United States, for this sum, is not for this
court to inquire; but his claim against lieutenant M4ley is not admitted.
This court affirms so much of the sentence of the circuit court, as awards compensation for the Mercator and
her cargo, to the libellant, and approves of the sentence'
on the report of the commissioners, except as to that part
which rejects the claim for advances for the outfits of
the vessel, and the wages of the crew, and whjch admits
the charges of 540 dollars, on account of the expenses
attending the application to the government of the United
States, and of 326 dollars and twelve cents, on account
of expenses attendant on the ineffectual attempt which
was made to prosecute an appeal in England. In the~e
respects, the account is to be reformed, for which purpose, so much of the sentence of the circuit court, as respects this part of the subject, is reversed, and the case
is remanded to the circuit court to be further proceeded
in, as to justice shall appertain.

LAWRASON v. MASON.
LAWRASONV.

MASOW.

A letter from
the defendapts to 7. M.
saying that
they would be
his security

ERROR to the circuit court of the" district of Co.
lumbia.
This was an action of assumpsit, brought by Mason,
against 'Lawrason, surviving partner of the firm of

of corn, paya Lawrason & Smoot, up'on the following note:

FEBRUARY, 1806.

493

"Alexandrja, 28th November, 1800.

LAWUAsOb
V.

"Mr. James M'Pherson.
ble in 12
nonths, wil

" Dear Sir.

naintain an
action of ar"We will become your security for one hundred ump:it aand thirty barrels of corn, payable in twelve months." gainst the de(Signed)

"LAWASON

& SHOOT."

8endants. by
ny person
who, upon the
aith of the
etter, shall

rhe declaration contained several counts, laying the iare given
assuznpsit in different forms, but the substance of each Credit to .
. for the
was, that the plaintiff, relying on and placing confidence
in the promise of the defendants, and at their instance ccorn.
and request, sold and delivered the corn to M'Pherson,
at'the price of three dollars a barrel, who, although
requested, never paid the plaintiff therefor, of which
the defeudants had notice, whereby the defendants be.
came liable, and, in consideration thereof, promised
to pay. The defendants pleaded the general issue, and
at the trial a verdict was taken for the plaintiff, subject
to the opinion of the court upon a demurrer to evidence, which stated, in substance, that the defendants
signed and delivered the said note to M'Pherson-that
he applied t the agent of the plaintiff for the corn, and
offered three dollars abarrel, payablein twelve monthsthat the agent consulted the plaintiff, whb agreed that
M'IPherson should have the corn on those terms, if
he would give security-that M'Pherson then offered
as his security, Lawrason & Smoot.. The agent agreed
to take them, if they would give their assumption in
writing. In afew days afterwards, M'Pherson sent to
the agent the said note of Lawrason & Smoot. Before
the corn was delivered, the agent informed the plaintiff
" what had passed between himself and M'Pherson, relative to the corn, and also showed him the note, and:
asked him whether it would do; to'which he replied,
he supposed it would.. But they called upon Lawrason,
and asked him if he was content to be M'Pherson's
security foi this corn. He hesitated at first, but said
he must be so, as he had promised; or, as his word
. was out, he would; or words to that effect: whereupon the plaintiff suffered M'Phcrson to take the corn.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
LAWASoN
M o

at the price of three dollars per barrel, which he agreed
to give. That there was another debt due to the
Splaintiff from M'Pherson, about the 1st of January,
1801, which he was-unable to pay.
That about the 1st of January, 1800, M'Pherson
gave his promissory note for the amount due for the
corn;, payable to Lawrason & Smoot, with intent
that they should indorse it, but, upon its being presented to Smoot, he refused, saying, that M'Pherson
had failed to. furnish them with meal, which he had
agreed to deliver to them for their indorsement ; he
therefore would not become security; but upon being"
shown the note of 28th of November, he acknowledgtd
that it had been given by them.
The plaintiff also produced the certificate of discharge of M'Pherson, under the bankrupt law, dated
the 15th of September, 1802, and pioved by witnesses
that he became insolvent in the year 1800.
Upon this demurrer the judgment of the court below was for the plaintiff.
S"wann, for plaintiff in error. The promise in this
case .was not made to the plaintiff; and no action can
be maintained against a person who is a stranger to
the consideration, and. who is not a party to the agreement, Cro. El. 369, Yordan v. Yordan. Esp. N. P.
105, 106. Perhaps an action might lay for the deceit,
but not upon the assumpsit. The will of both parties
must concur at the same moment. If I make an offer
of goods at a certain price, and give time to the other
party to consider of it, and vithin the time the other
party agrees to the terms, I am not bound to comply.
There was no consideration, and consequently no con.
tract, 3 T. R. 653, Cooke v. Oxly.
Besides, it does not appear that the money was ever
demanded of M'Pherson ; and, until he had refused to
pay, no right of action could accrue against tb- !c.
fendant. ,

PEBRUARY, 18"6

495

C. Lee, rontrq. There is an essential difference LAWUAS3Q
V.
between common contracts and a letter of credit. The
upon the
latter is a mercantile instrument, bottomed
principle of goodfaith. It is a promise to him who will
give credit to the third person, and the consideration
is the actual delivery of the money or goods to the
third person, upon the faith of the letter of tredit.
This is, therefore, a promise to the plaintiff, and a
good consideration is raised by the delivery of the corn
upon the faith of the defendant's note in writing. All
the forms of action upon a letter of credit, are in asSumpsit.
It is objected that no demand was made on M'Pher-son ; the answer is, that'he was known, to both parties,
to be insolvent.
MARSHALL, Ch. J. delivered the opinion of the
court to the following effect:

ThiL action is grounded upon anote in writing, which
was certainly intended by the defendants to give a
credit to M'Pherson. They are bound by every principle of moral rectitude and good faith to fulfil those
expectations which they thus raised, and which induced
the plaintiff to part with his property. The evidence
was clear that the credit was given upon the faith of
the letter.
Unless, therefore, there is some plain and positive
ule of law against it, the action ought to be sup.
ported.
In the case cited from E.cpinasse, the rule is laid
down too broadly. If compared with analagous cases,
it will be found to be considerably modified.
Thus, if money be delivered by A. to B. to be paid
over to C. although no promise is made by B. to C. yet
C. may recover the. money from B. by an action of as-

qumpit.
If it be said that in such a case the law raises the

assumpsit from the facts, and if the facts do not imply

496
LAW19ASON

V.
M,oi.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

an assurnfpsit, no action wilt lay;-it may be answered,

that in tfie present'case there is an actual assumpsit to
i all the world, and any person who trusts, in consequence of that promise, has a right of action.
Ithas been suggested by the counsel for the defendants, that, although an actioi; of assumpsit will not lay,
yet possibl the plaintiff tuight support an action for the
deceit. But an action for the deceit must be grounded
upon the breach of the promise. And if an action will
lay in any form, the present seems td be at least as
proper as any other.
Judgment affirmed.

KNOX XT AL.
V.
SUMMERS

KNOX AND CRAWFORD v. SUMMERS AND
THOMAS.

ET AL.

An appearance of the
defendant by
attorney cures

all antecedent
irregularity of
process.
Qtere whethier a deputymarshal can

ERROR to the circuit court of the district of Co4
lumbia.
The plaiitiffs in crror brought an action of debt on a

bond against the defendants, in the court below, to which
the defendant, Summers, after oyer of the writ, pleaded
in abatement, that on the day of the issuing of the or!gin' writ, as well as ofi the day of its service on him,

pleadinabate- he was one of the marshal's deputies, for the district of

ment, that the Columbia, and that the writ was not directed to a disincapia, was not

served on him terested person, appointed by the court of the district
l~y a diinteof Columbia, or by any justice or judge thereof, to ex7&ted peron P ecute the same. To which plea the plaintiffs demurred
specially, 1st. Because the plea was filed long after the
appearance of the defendant, Summers. 2d, Because,
after his appearance to the suit, no objection can be
urged to the irregularity of the service of the process.
3d. Because, if the process was irregularly issued, directed, or served,, the remedy was by motiQn and not by
plea, and 4th. Because the process was duly issued, directed and served. I ut the court below adjudged the-

