OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabus.

-Yr.J J

rivner for plaintiffs in error.

.X.. John A. IFright,Xr. John F. Hanna and -Y.
Z. Johnston for defendant in error.

JaMe8

I. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
It has been repeatedly decided by this court that where no
return.has been made to a writ of error by filing the transcript
of the record here, either before or during the term of the court
next succeeding the filing of the writ in the Circuit Court, this
court has, acquired no jurisdiction of the case, and the writ
having then expired, can acquire none under that writ, and it
must, therefore, be dismissed. 7ilWlao8 v. United States, 6
How. 81; Castro v. United State8, 3 Wall. 46; fusiw v.
Cavazos, 6 Wall. 355, 358; Xurdock v. .emphis, 20 Wall.
590, 624.
In the case before us the writ of error was filed in the Circuit
Court in which the record was March 16, 1882, and the tran'script that was returned with it was filed in this court November 28, 1884. Two full terms of the court had passed, therefore,
between the filing of the writ of error in the Circuit Court and
its return with the transcript into this court.
It must, therefore, be
Dismis8edfor want o.f jurisdiction.

CHEONG AII MOY v. UNITED STATES.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR TH1
DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
Submitted January 9. 1885.-Decided January26, 1885.

The court declines to decide a question arising in a case which no longer exists,
in regard to rights which it cannot enforce.

The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

CHEONG AH MOY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the -ourt.

M3(r. H. S. Brown and -Mr. Thoma8 D. _Riardan for plaintiff
in error.
.Mr. A8s8tant Attorney-General .aury
error.

for defendant in

MR.JusTion. Mi~n delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff in error here is a Chinese woman who, arriving
at San Francisco from China, was not permitted to land in
that city, by reason of the acts of Congress of May 6, 1882,
and the amendatory act of 1884, and, being forcibly kept on
1 oard the vessel, sued out a writ of habeas corpus to obtain her
release.
On a hearing in the Circuit Court of the United States, it
was ordered that she be returned on board the vessel in which
she came, or some other vessel of the same line, to be carried
back to China; and she was placed in the custody of the
marshal who was directed to execute the order.
On undertaking to do this, it was found that the vessel had
sailed, and the marshal placed his prisoner in jail for safe keeping, until another vessel should be at hand to remove her.
Her counsel, upon this stat6 of facts, applied to the Circuit
Court for permission to give bail on behalf of the woman and
have her released from custody. The judges of the Circuit
Court were opposed in opinion on the question of granting this
motion, and, having overruled it, have certified the division to
this court.
In the mean time it is made to appear to us, by the return of
the marshal, and by affidavits, that on the 2d day of October,
three days after the order was made overruling the motion,
and ten days before the writ of qrror herein was served by
filing it in the clerk's office of the Circuit Court, the marshal
had executed the original order of thd court by placing the
prisoner on board the steamship New York, one of the Pacific
Mail Steamships, about to start for China, and that she departed
on said vessel on the 7th day of October. It thus appears that
the order of deportation had been fully executed, and the
petitioner in the writ of habeas corpus placed without the

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

jurisdiction of the court, and of the United States, six days before the writ of error was filed .in the Circuit Court, and several
days before it was issued.
The question, therefore, which we are asked to decide is a
moot question as to plaintiff in error, and if she was permitted,
to give bail, it could be of no value to her, as the order by which
she was remanded has been executed, and she is no longer in
the custody of the marshal or in prison.
This court does not sit here to decide questions arising in
cases which no longer exist, in regard to rights which it cannot
enforce.
The writ of error i8 diomi88e.

PRICE & Others v. PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD
COMPANY.
IN ERROR

TO THE

SUPREME COURT OF TH

STATE

OF PENNSYL-

VANIA.
Argued January 15, 1885.-Decided January 26,1885.

A person travelling on a railroad in charge of mails, under the provision of
ยง 4000 Rev. Stat., does not thereby acquire the rights of a passenger, in

case he is injured on the railroad through negligence of the company's servants.

A statute of Pennsylvania, passed April 15, 1851, Purdon,
-Tit. Negligence 2, 1093, makes the provision, now become
common, for a recovery by the widow or children of a person
whose death was caused by the negligence of another, of damages for the loss of the deceased.
A statute passed April 4, 1868, Purdon, Tit. Negligence 5,
1094, provides- that "where any person shall sustain personal
injury or loss of life while lawfully engaged or employed on or
about the road, works, depot and premises of a railroad company, or in or about any train or car therein or thereon, of
which company such person is not an employ6, the right of

