OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

jurisdiction of the court, and of the United States, six days before the writ of error was filed .in the Circuit Court, and several
days before it was issued.
The question, therefore, which we are asked to decide is a
moot question as to plaintiff in error, and if she was permitted,
to give bail, it could be of no value to her, as the order by which
she was remanded has been executed, and she is no longer in
the custody of the marshal or in prison.
This court does not sit here to decide questions arising in
cases which no longer exist, in regard to rights which it cannot
enforce.
The writ of error i8 diomi88e.

PRICE & Others v. PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD
COMPANY.
IN ERROR

TO THE

SUPREME COURT OF TH

STATE

OF PENNSYL-

VANIA.
Argued January 15, 1885.-Decided January 26,1885.

A person travelling on a railroad in charge of mails, under the provision of
ยง 4000 Rev. Stat., does not thereby acquire the rights of a passenger, in

case he is injured on the railroad through negligence of the company's servants.

A statute of Pennsylvania, passed April 15, 1851, Purdon,
-Tit. Negligence 2, 1093, makes the provision, now become
common, for a recovery by the widow or children of a person
whose death was caused by the negligence of another, of damages for the loss of the deceased.
A statute passed April 4, 1868, Purdon, Tit. Negligence 5,
1094, provides- that "where any person shall sustain personal
injury or loss of life while lawfully engaged or employed on or
about the road, works, depot and premises of a railroad company, or in or about any train or car therein or thereon, of
which company such person is not an employ6, the right of

PRICE v. PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD COMPANY. 219
Statement of Facts.

action or recovery in all such cases against the company shall
be such only as would exist if such person were an employ4:
Provided, That this section shall n6t apply to passengers."
The plaintiff in error sued the defendant in error for the loss
of her husband by a death which the jury, by the following
special verdict, found to be caused by the negligence of the
company's servant or servants:
"We find for the plaintiff in the sum of ($5,000) five thousand
dollars, subject to the opinion of the court on the question of
law reserved, to wit: We find that A. J. Price at the time of
his death was route agent of the United States Post Office Department, duly appointed and commissioned, his route being on
the Western Pennsylvania Railroad from Allegheny City to
Blairsville, in the State of Pennsylvania; that his duties as
such agent required him to be on the mail car on the mail
train of said road to receive and deliver mail matter; that for
the purpose of his business and that of the postal department,
and in accordance with the laws of the United States nd the
regulations of t he Post Office Department, and acceptance
thereof by the railroad company, one end of the baggage car
on the mail train was divided off and fitted up for the use of
the Department in carrying the mails, and that the duties of
the said route agent required him'to be in said room in the car
during the running of the train; that said Price was daily on
said train, making a round trip from Allegheny City to Blairsville and return; that on-the 23d day of July, 1877, while at
his post in his room on said car, Mr. Price was killed in a collision of the mail train coming west with another train of th.e
defendant company going east.
"That said collision was caused by the negligence or misconduct of the conductor and engineer in charge of the train going
east in neglecting or disobeying orders, and in failing to take
necessary precaution to avoid a collision.
"We find that the Pennsylyania Railroad Company, by resolution dated April 16, 1868, accepted the provisions of the act
of Assembly, approved 4th April, 1868, P. L. p. 59, and that
[at the] time of the collision the Pa. R. R. Co. was operating
the Western Pennsylvania Railroad under lease.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Brief for Plaintiffs.

"If, under this finding of facts, and under the acts of Congress and acts of Assembly offered in evidence, and the postal
regulations in evidence, the court should be of the opinion that
the plaintiffs, as widow and children of deceased, are entitled
to recover, then judgment to be entered on the verdict in favor
of the plaintiffs.
"If the court should be of the opinion that the law is with
the defendant, then judgment to be entered in favor of the defendant non obstante veredicto."
Upon this verdict the judge of the trial court held that the
deceased was a person engaged in and about the train, within
the meaning of the act of 1868, but that he was also within the
proviso as a passenger, and gave judgment for plaintiff on the
verdict. The judgment was reversed by the Supreme Court of
-Pennsylvania on the ground that the deceased was not a passenger within the meaning of the proviso, and a judgment was
rendered for defendant (see 96 Penn. St. 256), to which this
writ of error was prosecuted.
Xfr. Charles A. Ray, Xfr. Edward A. INewman, and -Mtr.
Thomas X. Bayne for plaintiffs in error submitted on their
brief.-When the act of 1865,13 Stat. 504, was passed, authorizing the appointment of postal clerks to travel in charge of
mails, it was well settled that such persons while discharging
their duties were entitled to the rights of passengers. In England and :New York it was so settled as to mail agents. Callett v. London &:NVortkwestern Railway, 16 Q. B. 984; -Nolton
v. Western Railroad,15 NT. Y. 444. It was so settled as to the
analogous case of a drover transporting stock. Pennsylvania
Railroad v. Henderson, 51 Penn. St. 315. Being so settled
the act of the legislature of Pennsylvania of 1868 should be
so construed as not to deprive a Federal .officer of this right,
and thus impose upon him an additional hazard while discharging his duties. It is analogous to an attempt to tax his salary,
which cannot be done. Do3oins v. Erie County, 16 Pet. 435.
The proper construction is that the words, "Providedthat this
section shall not apply to passengers," is directed at existing
facts and conditions. The elements necessary to fix the status

PRICE v. PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD COMPANY. 221
Opinion of the Court.

of a person with a railroad as a passenger were already settled. The statute declares that it shall not be construed so as
to include such persons.
.2f'.John .Dalzell argued for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court. He
recited the facts as above stated, and continued:
The plaintiff argues here, and insisted throughout the progress of the case in the State courts, that by reason of certain
laws of the United States as applied to the facts found in the
verdict of the jury, the decedent was a passenger, and the Supreme Court erred in holding otherwise.
These laws are thus cited in the brief of plaintiff's.counsel:
"Act Mfarch 3, 1865, ยง 8, 13 Stat. 506, provides that 'Forthe
purpose of assorting and distributing letters and other matter
in railway post offices, the Postmaster General may, from time
to time, appoint clerks who shall be paid out of the appropriation for mail transportation.'
" 4000 Rev. Stat. requires that 'Every railway company
carrying the mail shall carry on any train which may run over
its road, and without extra charge therefor, all mailable matter
directed to be carried thereon, with the person in charge. of the
same.!"
We do not think these provisions either aid or govern the
construction of the proviso in the Pennsylvania statute.
The person thus to be carried with the mail matter, without
extra charge, is no more a passenger because he is in charge of
the mail, nor because no other compensation is made for his
transportation, than if he had no such charge, nor does the fact
that he is in the employment of the United States, and that
defendant is bound by contract with the government to carry
him, affect the question. It would be just the same if the company had contracted with any other person who had charge of
freight on the train to carry him without additional compensation. The statutes of the United States which authorize this
employment and direct this service do not, therefore, make the
person so engaged a passenger, or deprive him of that charac-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

ter, in construing the Pennsylvania statutk. -lbr does it give
to persons k employed any it, as agahst the railroad company, which would not belong to any other'perscn in a simnilar
employm~nt, by others than the United States.
We are, therefore, of opinion that no question of federal
authority was involved in the judgment of the Supreme Court
of Pennsylvania, and the writ of error is accordingly
DigMi8ed.

DAKOTA COUNTY v. GLIDDEN.
IN ERROR TO THE CIROUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT -OF NEBEASXA.
Submitted January 5, 1885.-Decided January 26, 1885.,

While payment of the sum recovered below in submission to the judgment is
no bar to the right of reversal of the judgment when brought here by writ
of error, a compromise and settlement of the demand in suit, whereby a
new agreement is substituted in place of the old one, extinguishes the
cause of action, and leaves nothing for the exercise of the jurisdiction of
this dourt.
Evidence of facts outside of the record, affecting the proceeding of the court
in a case on error or appeal, will be received and considered, when deemed
necessary'by the court, for the purpose of determining its action.

This was a motion to dismiss. The suit was on county bonds
issued in aid of a railroad. Judgment below for the plaintiff.
The defendant brought a writ of error to reverse it. Subsequently to the judgment, the &ountysettled with the plaintiff
and other bondholders, by giving them new bonds bearing a
less rate of interest, and the old bonds, which were the cause
of action in this suit, were surrendered and destroyed. These
facts were brought before this court by affidavits and transcripts from the county records, accompanied by a motion to
dismiss the writ of error.
-Y'. R. P. Ranney and M'. J. X. WKoolworth, in support
of the motion.

