OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabus.

the jurisdiction of the prize court, upon the condemnation of
a prize taken by an armed vessel of the Navy, extended'to determining the separate shares of the officers and crew; or was
limited to adjudging what vessels were entitled to share, and
whether, by reason of their force as compared with that of
their prize, the whole or the half of the proceeds should go to
them-leaving the distribution among the officers and men
to be made by the Secretary of the Navy, according to the
records of the department.*

Judgment af'med.

HARDIN, Administratrix, & Others v. BOYD, Administrator, & Others.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF

AR KANSAS.

Submitted December 22, 1884.-Decided March 15, 185.
No rule can be laid down in reference to amendments of equity pleadings that
will govern all cases. They.must depend upon the special circumstances
of each case. and in passing upon applications to amend, the ends of justice
must not be sacrificed to 'mere form or by too rigid an adherence to technical-rules of practice.
In a suit brought by the heirs and aaministrator of a vendor of land by title
bond, the bill alleged that the bond had been obtained by fraud, and, also,
that the land had not been fully paid for according to the contract of sale.
Its prayer was, among other things, that the bond be cancelled ; that an
account be taken of the rents and profits which the purchaser had enjoyed,
and of the amount paid on his purchase ;that the title of the complainants
be quieted ; and that they have such other relief as equity might require.
At the final hearing the complainants were permitted to amend the prayer
of the bill so as to ask, in the alternative, for a decree for the balance of
the purchase money and a lien on the land to secure the payment thereof:
Held, That no error was committed in allowing the amendment. It did
not make a new case, but only enabled the court to adapt its relief to that
* See act of July 17, 1862, ch. 204, ยง 5; 12 Stat. 607; act of June 30, 1864,
ch. 174, &' 1, 7, 9, 10, 16, 27, 28; 13 Stat. 307-314; The St. Lawrence, 2 Gallison, 19; Proceeds of Prize, Abbott Adm. 495; The Glamorgan, 1 Sprague,
273; The Cherokee, 2 Sprague, 235; 5 Opinions of Attornays General, 142.

HARDIN v. BOYD.
Statement of Facts.
made by the bill and sustained by the proof. The bill, with the prayer
thus amended, was in the form in which it might have been originally prepared consistently with the rules of equity practice.
The case distinguislied from ,Shield&v. Barrow, 17 How., 130.
Although the debt for unpaid purchase money was barred by limitation under
the local law, the lien therefor on the land was not barred ; for there was
no such open adverse possession, 'for the period within which actions for
the recovery of real estate must be brought, as would cut off the right t6
enforce the equitable lien for tlie purchase mDney.

This was a bill in equity to set aside a conveyance of lands,
or (as amended below) in the alternative for payment of the
purchase money and to make it a lien on the lands.
The main question on this appeal relates to The alleged error
of the Circuit Court in permitting the complainants, at the
bearing, to amend the prayer of their bill, so as to obtain relief
not before specifically asked, and, which appellants contend, is
inconsistent with the case made by the bill. To make intelliible this and other questions if the cause, it is necessary to
state the issues and the general effect of the evidence.
On the 28th day of March, 1871, John D. Ware executed
his title bond to William D. Hardin, recitiRg the sale to the
latter of cert in lands in Crittenden County, Arkansas, for the
sum of $20.000, one-half of which was to be paid at the delivery of the bond, and the remainder, on the 1st day of January
thereafter, in county scrip or warrants; and providing for a
conveyance to the purchaser, when: the purchase money should
be fully paid. Ware died, at his home in Tennessee, on the
6th day of December, 1871. In the same month, the Probate
Court of Crittenden County appointed L. B. Hardin (a brother
of the purchaser) to be administrator of Ware; and, on the 15th
of January, 1872, his bond having been on that day filed and
approved, letters of administration were directed to be issued.
Under date of the 23d day of January of the same year, L. B.
Hardin, in his capacity as administrator, executed to the purchaser an absolute conveyance of all the right, title and interest of Ware in the lands. The deed recited the payment by
the grantee to the said administrator of $10,000 in Crittenden
County scrip and warrants, and that the deed was made in
conformity with an order of the Probate Court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

The general statutes -of Arkansas declare that "when any
testator or intestate shall have entered into any contract for
the conveyance of lands and tenements in his lifetime, which
was not executed and performed during his life, and shall not
have given power by will to carry the same into execution, it
shall be lawful for the executor or administrator of such testator or intestate, with the approval of the court in term time,
to execute a deed of conveyance of and for such lands, pursuant
to the terms of the original contract; such executor or administrator being satisfied that payment has been made therefor,
according to the contract, and reciting the fact of such payment
to the testator or intestate, or to such executor or administrator,
as the case may be, which deed may be acknowledged as other
deeds, and shall have the same force and effect to pass the title
of such testator or intestate to any such lands as if made
pursuant to a decree of court." Act'Feb. 21, 1859; Gantt's
Dig. 180.
By deed of July 10, 1877, W. D. Hardin conveyed these
lands to his wife, and they were in possession, by tenants,
when the present suit was instituted on the 28th of October,
1881. The complainants are the heirs at law of the vendor
and one Boyd, his administrator, the latter having been appointed at the last domicil of the decedent in Tennessee. The
defendants were W. D. Hardin and his wife and their tenants.
The bill proceeds upon these grounds: That Ware's obligation
of March 28, 18741, was obtained through fraud and imposition
practised by the purchaser; that the latter was at liberty, according to the real agreement between him and Ware, to pay
the entire purchase money in county scrip or warrants; thd.t
he and his wife were in possession, claiming the lands to be the
absolute property of the latter, although no part of the purchase
money had been paid, except $5,400 paid to the intestate in
county scrip or warrants at their face value; thatno such proceedi'gs as are recited in the deed to W. D. Hardin, were ever
had in. the Probate Court of Crittenden County; that the
$10,000 in scrip or warrants, which the deed states was paid by
W. D. Hardin, were disposed of at private sale for fifteen cents
on the dollar of their face, value, and the proceeds applied, by

HARDIN v. BOYD.
Ste ement of Facts.

collusion between the urchaser and his brother, to a claim
which they, acting together, fraudulently procured to be allowed in favor of W. D. Hardin against Ware's estate, when,
in fact no such indebtedness existed; that all the papers relating to the estate of Ware were destroyed by Hardin, while in
his custody as clerk of the Probate Court, for the purpose of
concealing his fraudulent scheme to obtain the lands without
paying for them; that the deed from.iHardin to his wife was
without consideration; and that Hardin, after he took possession of the lands, appropriated to his own use all the rents
annually accruing therefrom.
The prayer of the bill was that "the said bond for title, and
the said deeds made by Lucian B. Hartin to said Win. D.
Hardin, and by the latter to said Lida Hardin, his wife, may
be set aside for fraud; that an account may be taken of the
said rents and profits, and of the value of the county warrants
delivered by said William D. Hardin, and that your orators
may have a personal decree against said defendants for any
balance that may be found to be justly duie to them; that a decree may be rendered quieting the title of the plaintiff herein
to said lands against said claims of the said defendants, and for
such other relief as equity may require."
Hardin and wife filed separate answers, and also pleas relying
upon the statute of limitation in bar of the suit. They also demurred to the bill upon numerous grounds;
A good deal of evidence was taken touching the physical
and mental condition of Ware at and before the execution of
his title bond, as well as upon the issue, as to whether Hardin
had paid for the lands according to contract. Without detailing all the facts, it is sufficient to say that, according to the
weight of the evidence, the payment to Ware of $5,400 in
county scrip or warrants was the only one ever really made on
Hardin's purchase of these lands, and that the alleged payment
subsequently of $10,000 in like scrip or warrants to L. B.iHardin, administrator, was not intended to be a payment on the
land, because the proceeds of their sale were, by collusion between him and W. D. Hardin, appropriated by the latter on a
fictitious claim asserted by him against Ware's estate.

'OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Argument for Appellants.

Such was the state of the record when the cause came on for
hearing. After the evidence was read the complainants asked
leave to amend the prayer of the bill by inserting therein the
following words: "Or, if thought proper, that the court give
a decree for the purchase-money due on said lands, and that
the plaintiffs be decreed to have a lien on said lands for the
payment thereof, and that said lien be foreclosed." This
amendment was allowed; and the defendants excepted. And
thereupon the court, having heard the evidence .and the argument of counsel, rendered a final decree, and adjudging that
W. D. Hardin was indebted to B. P. Boyd, administrator of
Ware, in the sum of $17,150 on the purchase-money for the
lands and that complainants have a lien thereon for its payment, relating back to the date of the title bond. The deeds
from L. B. Hardin, administrator to W. D. Hardin, and from
the latter to his wife, were cancelled for fraud, and the land
ordered to be sold in satisfaction of the lien; no sale, however,
to take place until the heirs of Ware should file in court a warranty deed for the lands. The court refused to give a personal
decree for the balance of the purchase-money, " the same being
barred by the statute of limitations." Subsequently, the heirs
of Ware filed the required deed in court, and the decree was
made absolute.
Hardin appealed to this court. After the appeal was per.
fected he departed this life, and, by consent, it was revived in
the name of Mrs. Hardin, as his administratrix. After the submission of the cause here the heirs-at-law of Hardin appeared,
and by consent they were miade co-appellants without opening
the submission.
.il. B. C. Brown, 36.. Thoma X. Peters and 36.. 0. P.
Lylae for appellants argued the case on its merits, including
several questions not noticed in the opinion of the court. 'On
the effect of the statute of limitations on the claim, they cited
Birnie v. ffain, 29 Ark. 591; Gantt's Digest, . 4113; upten
v. Janney, 13 Pet. 381; Underhill v. .fobile Fire -Department
Insurance Co., 67 Ala. 45. As to the amendment, they said:
The amendment allowed by the chancellor in the prayer of the

HARDIN v. BOYD.
Opinion of the Court

originai bill, after the trial had commenced, was improper. The
amendment made a new case, and was repugnant to the. prayer
of the original bill. The original bill was for a cancellation of
the sale, and the amendment was to enforce it. It deprived the
defendant Hardin of the opportunity of showing upon the new
issue thius presented that the whole purchase-money was fully
paid. The question of payment vel non had been presented
in the original bill as an evidence of fraud. This he had fully
met. The relief in the two cases is not precisely the same,
Shield8 v. Barrow, 17 How. 130; Waldren v. Bodley, 14: Pet.
156; ASneed v. .AkCool, 12 How. 407; Story Eq. Pl. ยง 256;
Lehman v. .teyer, 67 Ala. 396; fficou v. Ashurst, 55 Ala. 607;
1 Daniel Oh. Pr. 328-385; Rives v. TWalthall, 38 Ala. 329.
-Mr.U. . Rose for appellees.
MRt. JUSTICE

HARLAw,

after stating the foregoing facts, de-

livered the opinion of the court:
In reference to amendments of equity pleadings the courts
have found it impracticable to lay down a rule that would govern all cases. Their allowance must, at every stage of the cause,
rest in the discretion of the court; and that discretion mustdepend largely on the special circumstances of each case. It
may be said, generally, that in passing upon applications to
amend, the ends of justice should never be sacrificed to mere
form, or by too rigid an adherence to technical rules of practice.
Undoubtedly, great caution should be exercised where the application comes after the litigation has continued for some time,
or when the granting of it -would cause serious inconvenience
or expense to the opposite side. And an amendment should
rarely, if ever, be permitted where it would materially change
the very substance of the case made by the bill, and to which
the parties have directed their proofs. The rule is thus stated in
Lyon v. Talmadge, 1 Johns. Ch.184, 188: "If the bill be found
defective in its prayer for relief, or in proper parties, or in the
omission or statement of fact or circumstance connected with
the substance of the case, but not forming the substance itself,
the amendment is usually granted. But the substance of the
bill must contain ground for relief. There must be equity in

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

the case, when fully stated and correctly applied to the proper
p~rties, sufficient to warrant a decree." And, in 1 Daniells
Ch. Pr. 384, 5th ed., the author, after alluding to the rule in
reference to amendments, observes: "The instancei, however,
in which this will be done are confined to those where it appears, from-the case made by-the bill, that the plaintiff is entitled to relief, although different from that sought by the
specific prayer; when the object of the proposed amendment
is-to make a new case, it will not be permitted." Whether the
amendment in question changed the substance of the case, or
made a new one, we proceed to inquire.
. The original bill in this suit, certaifily states facts entitling
complainants to some relief. He and his wife were in possession,
asserting title, freed from all claim, of whatever kind, upon the
part either of thd heirs or of the estate of Ware. The complainants evidently supposed that the relief to which they were
entitled was a cancellation, upon the ground of fraud, of
Hardin's contract of purchase, as well as of the deeds to him
and his wife, with an accounting that would embrace, on one
side, the rents and profits derived from the lands, and, on the
other, the value of the scrip or warrants that he had delivered
in part payment of the purchase-money. But if it were doubtful wbhether the evidence was sufficient to justify a decree setting aside the contract upon the ground of fraud or impositiopractised upion the vendor, and if the evidence clearly showed
that the purchaser had not fully paid for the lands, according
to the terms of his purchase, should the complainants have been
driven to a new suit in order to enforce a lien for the unpaid
purchase-money9 And this, too, after the pa.ties had taken
their proofs upon the issue, distinctly made by the pleadings, as
to the amount of the purchase-money really due from Hardin?
Such practice would. have done no good to either party, and
must have-resulted in delay and additional expense to both. A
new suit to enforce a lien on the land would have brought before the court the same evidence that was taken in this cause as
to the amount Hardin had paid. When leave was asked to
amend the prayer for relief, no objection was made by the defendant; but the amendment having been allowed, he excepted,

HARDIN v. BOYD.
Opinion of the Court.

but without any suggestion of surprise or any intimation that
he was able or desired to produce additional proof upon that
issue. Apart from the allegations in reference to fraud in obtaining the title bond, the bill made a case of non-payment of
the greater part of the purchase-money. To amend the prayer
of the bill so as to justify a decree consistent with that fact,
did not make a new case, nor materially change the substance
of the one actually presented by the bill and the pro6fs. It
served only to enable the court to adapt its measure of relief
to a case distinctly alleged and satisfactorily proved. The complainants could thereby meet the objection, which otherwise
might have been urged, that the nature of the specific relief
originally asked precluded the court from giving, under the
general prayer, the particular relief which the amendment and
the proof authorized.
It is a well-settled rule that the complainant, if not certain
as to the specific relief to which he is entitled, may frame his
prayer in the alternative, so that if one kind of relief is denied
another may be granted; the relief, of each kind, being consistent with the case made by the bill. Terry v. lo8ell, 32
Ark. 478; Colton v. Ros, 2 Paige, 396; Lloyd v. Brew8ter.
4 Paige, 537, 540; Iingan v. fender8on, 1 Bland, 236, 252;
.MenpM8 v. Clark, 1 Sm. & Marsh, 221, 236. Under the liberal rules of chancery practice which now obtain, there is no
sound reason why the original bill in this case might not have
been framed with a prayer for the cancellation of the contract
upon the ground of fraud, and an accounting between the parties, and, in the alternative, for a decree which, without disturbing the contract, would give a lien on the lands for unpaid
purchase-money. The matters in question arose out of one
transaction, and were so directly connected with each other,
that they could well have been incorporatedin one suit involving the determination of the rights of the parties with respect
to the lands. The amendment had no other effect than to
make the bill read just as it might have been originally prepared consistently with the established rules of equity practice.
It suggested no change or modification of its allegations, and,
in no just sense, made a new case.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.
The decision in Shield8 v. Barrow, 17 How. 130, is invoked,
with some confidence, as authority against the action of the
court in allowing the prayer of the bill to be amended. That
was a suit to set aside an agreement of compromise on the
ground of fraud and imposition, and to restore the complainant to his original rights under a 6ontract for the sale of certain
lands and other property. The bill was fatally defective as to
parties. No decree could have been based upon it, for indispensable parties were not before the court, and could not be
subjected to its jurisdiction. The amendment of the bill, there
tendered and allowed by the court of original jurisdiction, not
only asked that the compromise, if held binding, be specifically
enforced, but it brought into the case entirely new issues of
fact and law, and made an additional defendant, in his individual capacity and as tutor of his minor children The relief
sofight by that arhendment was, therefore, not within the case
set out in the original bill. Nor was the application there, as
here, simply to amend the prayer of the bill, so as to ask, in
the alternative, for specific relief within the case as originally
presented. It was regarded by this court as an attempt, under
the cover of amendment, to change the very substance of the
case. That such was its view upon the point necessary to be
decided is clear from the opinion, for the court said: "To
strike oukthe entire substance and prayer of a bill, and insert
a new case by way of amendment, leaves the record unnecessarily encumbered with the original proceedings, increases expenses, and complicates the suit; it is far better to require the
complainant to begin anew. To insert a wholly different case
is not properly an amendment, and should not be considered
within the rules on that subject." The circumstances of the
present case are entirely different from those in Shields v. Barrow. The amendment here did not introduce new allegations,
nor make additional parties, nor encumber the record, nor increase the expenses of the litigation, nor complicate the suit,
nor make new issues of fact. It simply enabled the court,
upon the case made by the original bill, to give the relief
which that case justified. .Aeale v. Xeales, 9 Wall. 1, 8; Tremolo Patent, 23 Wall. 518; Burgess v. Grafam, 10 Fed. Rep.

HARDIN v. BOYD.
Opinion of the Court.

216, 219; Battle v. .3[utual Life Ins. Co., 10 Blatchford, 417;
Ogden v. Thornton, 3 Stewart, (30 N. J. Eq.) 569, 573; Ao Connell v. .MeConnell, 11 Vt. 291'
We are of opinion, for the reasons stated, that the amendmint oC the prayer of the bill was properly allowed, and that
there was no error in adjudging that Ware's estate had a lien
on the land for the balance of the purchase-money. The deed
to W. D. Hardin, and the deed of the latter to his wife, having
been properly cancelled, the legal title remained in the heirs of
the vendor. They are not bound to surrender that title except
upon the performance of the conditions upon which their ancestor agreed to convey, viz., the payment of the purchasemoney. According to the local law, they occupied the position
of mortgagees; for, "the legal effect of a title bond is like a
deed executed by the vendor and a mortgage back by the
vendee." Holman v. Patterson'sHeirs, 29 Ark. 363; -fartin
v. O'Bannon, 35 Ark. 68. The heirs of Ware held the title in
trust for the purchaser, while Hardin was a trustee for the payment of the purchase-money. Schall v. Biscoe, 18 Ark. 142,
157; -3foorev. Anders, 14 Ark. 628; Holman v. Patterson, 29
Ark. 363; Bayley v. Greenleaf, 7 Wheat. 46, 50; Boone v.
C/iles, 10 Pet. 177, 225; Lewis v. Hawkins, 23 Wall. 119, 126;
1 Story Eq. Jur., ยง 1217 et seq.; 2 Sugden Vendors, 375, ch.
19, n. d.
But it is contended that the debt for unpaid purchase-money,
as well as the lien claimed therefor, are equally barred-.by the
statute of limitations of Arkansas. An action to recover the
debt may be barred by limitation, yet the right to enforce the
lien for the purchase-xaoney may still exist. Lewis v. Hawkins,
23 Wall. 119, 127; Birnie v. .Afain, 29 Ark. 593; Colcleugh v.
Johnson, 34 Ark. 312, 318. In the case last cited the Supreme
Court of Arkansas said: "The debt itself would appear to be
barred in 1872, and no action could be brought at law. But the
bar of the debt does not necessarily preclude a mortgagee or vendor retaining the legal title from proceeding in rem in a court
of equity to enforce his specific lien upon the land itself.
: * , Unless the defendant can show that the lien has been
in some way discharged and extinguished, or lost upon some

766, '

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

equitable principles, such as estoppel, he can only interpose the
bar of adverse possession of the land for such time as would
bar the action at law for its recovery." In the same case it
was held that, as between mortgagor and mortgagee, the possession of the mortgagor is not inconsistent with the mortgagee's right so long as the latter does not treat the former as
a trespasser; that where the mortgagor remained the actual
occupant with the consent of the mortgagee he was strictly
tenant at will; that if the tenancy be determined by the death
of the mortgagor, and his heirs or devisees enter and hold without any recognition of the mortgagor's title by payment of interest or other act, an adverse possession may be considered to
take place. "The principle," said the court, "is a wholesome
one for both parties, as it enables the mortgagee (or vendor by
title bond) to rest secirely on his legal title, and indulge the
mortgagor or purchaser, whilst the latter can easily, upon payment, procure the legal title, or have satisfaction of the mortgage entered of record under the statute; and even if he should
neglect this, a Court of Chancery would not entertain a stale
demand for foreclosure after many years without clear proof
rebutting the presumption of payment; or if the mortgagor
should die and the heirs should enter without recognition of
the mortgagee's rights, the statute of limitations would commence to run as in case of adverse possession." When did adverse possession begin in the present case? Not when Hardin
took possession of the land, for he went into possession in the
lifetime of the vendor, and with his consent. The claim of adverse possession cannot.be based either upon the alleged proceedings in the Probate Court purporting to authorize and
direct the administrator of Ware to execute a deed to Hardin,
or upon the deed which was made to him by such administrator; for, according to the weight of evidence, no such action
was ever taken by the court and, by its order, made a matter
of record, and that deed, although filed for record, was never
recorded during the period when Hardin held the office of clerk
of that court, nor until 1877. So that there was nothing upon
the public record of conveyances, as shown at the hearing, nor
in any of the circumstances attending Hardin's possession, plior

HARDIN v. BOYD.
Opinion of the Court.

to the conveyance to his wife, that showed such open, notorious adverse possession of the land as was requisite to change the
relations originally existing between the vendor and purchaser,
or between the latter and the heirs of the former. Hardin's
possession under the deed of the administrator was simply a
continuation of the possession originally obtained with the consent of his vpndor. If it be said that Mrs. Hardin's possession
under the deed from her husband was, upon her part, an assertion of title adverse to any claim that Ware's estate had, it
may be answered that such possession commenced less than
seven years prior to the bringing of this suit, which is the
period within which the statutes of Arkansas require action or
suits to be brought for the recovery of real estate.
It is objected to the decree that the value of the county scrip
or warrants, which the court found had not been delivered by
Hardin in payment for the land, should have been ascertained
upon the basis of value as alleged in the original bill, namely,
ten cents on the dollar; and this, although the answer placed
their value at seventy-five cents. According to the preponderance of evidence they were worth about seventy cents on the
dollar of their face value. The court was not obliged to accept
the allegations of value in the pleadings, and should have been
controlled, on this point, by the evidence. We do not perceive
any error in the aggregate amount ascertained to be due, taking the two instalments of purchase-money at the market value
of the scrip or warrants, in which they were payable, at the
time they were respectively due, and giving interest upon those
amounts from the maturity of each instalment.
Some time after the deeree Hardin filed a petition for rehearing, submitting therewith copies of numerous papers (alleged to have been lost at and before the final hearing) purporting to relate to a suit instituted by the heirs of Ware in
the Crittenden Circuit Court against L. B. Hardin for the purpose of having him removed as administrator, or preventing
his interfering with the assets of the estate. The record of
that suit, it wds alleged in the petition for rehearing, disproved
the principal grounds upon which the decree in this case was
rested. Without assenting to this view, and without comment-

768

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

ing upon the failure of the petition to disclose the circumttances under which the papers alleged to have been lost were
found, it is sufficient to say that the granting of a rehearing
was a matter within the discretion of the court below, and not
to be reviewed here.
Other questions are discussed in the briefs of counsel, but we
have noticed all that we deem of importance. There is no
error in the decree, and it is

