OCTOBER TEAM, 1884.
Syllabus.

according to its commercial signification, but it will always be
understood to have the same meaning in commerce that it has
in the community at large, unless the contrary is shown.
Swan v. Arthur, 103 U. S. 597, 598. The most that can be
claimed for the alleged reservation in GreenZaf v. Goodrich
is, that it would have. been proper to inquire whether the phrase
"of similar description" was a comnercial term, and if so,
what it was understood by merchants and importers to mean.
That, however, is not what was attempted in this case. The
witnesses were asked, in effect, not what the words "of similar
description" were understood among commercial men to mean,
but whether the goods of these importers were known in commerce as goods of similar description to delaines.
The effort was to put the opinion of commercial experts in
the place of that of the jury upon a question which was as well
understood by the community at large as by merchants and
importers. This it was decided in Greenleafv. Goodrich could
not be done, and upon the point supposed to have been reserved
in that decision this case stands just where that did. The
testimony offered was, therefore, properly rejected.
The opinions of the collector of the port and of the board of
official appraisers were no' more admissible on this question
than those of any other competent experts.
The judgment is
Affirmed.

CAMP v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Argued January 27, 28, 1885.-Decided March 2, 188.
When a regulation, made by the head, of an executive department in pursuance of law, dmpowers subordifiates, of a class named, to contract on
behalf of the United States as to a given subject matter; and further directs
that "any contract made in pursuance of this regulation must be in writing," a verbal executory contract relating thereto is not binding upon the
United States.

CAMP v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of Facts.
When an executive regulation direets officers of one class to make a contract
on behalf of the United States, it confers no authority to make it upon officers of a different class, although employed'about the same government
business.
Independently of the question of authority, the record does not show that the
contract set up in the plaintiff's petition was entered into.

The appellant brought this action on the 13th day of April,
1869, to recover a balance alleged to be due as compensation
for collecting and delivering to the United States, in 1864, a
large amount of cotton, in bales, which was captured and abandoned property within the meaning of the acts of Congress.
He claimed to have performed the services in question under
an arrangement or agreement'with an agent of the Treasury
Department, which the Secretary of the Treasury subsequently
recognized as a valid contract with the government. He admitted certain payments on his claim, and asked judgment for
the further sum of $80,000. The court below dismissed his
petition.
The material facts, as found by the Court of Claims, were,
in substance, as follows:
In the early part of 1864, one Hart, an assistant special
agent of the Treasury Department for the district of Natchez,
in the Statd of Mississippi, made a verbal arrangement with
Camp, whereby it was understood 'and agreed between them
that the latter should bring out and turn over to the United
States, through their agent in lNatchez; about twenty-two hundred bales of cotton, stored on the banks of Buffalo Bayou, in
Adams County, Mississippi, within that district, and the property of one John K. Elgee, a resident of Alexandria, Louisiana,
then within the lines of rebel occupation. "The agent," the
findings of fact stated, "was then to represent the arrangement and business, whatever it might be, to the Secretary of
the Treasury, and was likewis e to represent that lie had assured
the claimant, by, the arrangement, that the Secretary would
allow to him twenty-five per cent. of the proceeds of the cotton at least. No bond of indemnity was given by the claimant. By the arrangement the claimant was also to pay to-the
agent, Hart, out of the proceeds. when received by him, from

OCTOBER TERM, ,1884.
Statement of Facts.

$5,000 to $10,000, provided the Secretary of. the Treasury
should see no impropriety in his, the agent's, accepting from
the claimant a portion of the proceeds."
On or about March 31,'1864, Camp, representing hLLself as
a treasury agent, engaged the services of a transport, which,
under the protection of a gunboat, ascended Buffalo Bayou,
took on board 572 bales of the Elgee cotton, and brought it to
Natchez, where it was seized by General Tuttle, commanding
the Federal military forces, on suspicion that the claimant
intended to appropriate it to himself, and placed under guard
in the government yard. Shortly thereafter Camp informed
the supervising special agent and the assistant special agent of
the treasury of what he had done.
By direction of the supervising special agent the cotton was
forwarded to St. Louis, consigned to 0. S. Lovell, an agent of
the Treasury Department. After it reached that city, Elgee
brought an action of replevin against Lovell in the Circuit
Court of St. Louis County. The United States took charge of
the defence, and on June 22, 1864, a stipulation was entered
into bet-veen the Treasury Department and Elgee, whereby
that action was removed to the Circuit Court of the United
States, and the cotton was sold, the proceeds, after paying certain charges, being invested in bonds, which were held to abide
the result of the litigation. In that suit a judgment was obtained by the government, which was affirmed by this court.
The appellant presented his claim for compensation to the
Treasury Department, which, by its assistant secretary, on the
6th of December, 1865, directed the Commissioner of Customs
to "state an account and make a requisition in favor of Benjamin F. Camp upon F. E. Spinner, treasury agent, to be paid
from the proceeds of captured and abandoned property, for the
sum of'$30,000, being part of the proceeds of certain property
known as the Elgeed'totton, collected as captured or abandoned
-property by said Camp, for an interest therein, said sum being an
advance to said Camp on account of his expenditures in relation
to said cotton." This order recited that Camp had executed bond
with surety to the United States, conditioned that he would
repay the said sum on demand of the Secretary of the Treasury,

CAMP v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

and fully indemnify the government against all loss and damage, by reason of such payment. In pursuance of that order
the sum of $30,000 was paid to him. On the 7th of March,
1866, the further sum of $15,000 was paid to Win. Prescott
Smith (who had acquircd a joint interest with the claimant),
the order which- directed the payment reciting, that that
amount was "an advance to Smith on account of his joint interest with Camp in said cotton."
The net proceeds of the sale of the cotton, with the interest
that had accrued on the bonds in which they were investedin all, $366,170.83-were covered into the treasury in pursuance of a joint resolution of Congress, approved March 30,
1868.
On the 20th of August, 1868, the heirs and representatives
of Elgee brought suit against the United States in the Court of
Claims, under the captured and abanaoned property act, to recover those proceeds. That suit was pending and undetermined
when the presenit action wa commenced. The claim of Elgee's
heirs and representatives was established, his loyalty having
been shown only by proof that on the 2d day of May, 1864,
he took the, oath prescribed by President Lincoli's amnesty
proclamation of December, 1863.
It was in evidence that twenty-five per cent. of the proceeds
of captured cotton was the remuneration ordinarily allowed by
the Treasury Department to contractors under the treasury
regulations for collecting and bringing in such property.
Mr. 0. D. Barett, and
lant.

-r. Benjamin F. Butler for appel-

r.A8sztant Attornqy-General 3laury for appellee.
Mn. JusTioE EHARLA delivered the opinion of the court. He
stated the facts in the foregoing language, and continued:
Pursuant to authority conferred by the act of March 12,
1863, 12 Stat. 820, the Secretary of the Treasury established
and promulgated regulations providing for the appointment of
supervising special agents, assistant special agents, and other

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

agents, for receiving and collecting abandofhed and captured
property found within their respective agencies, and within
the lines of military occupation by the United States forces, except such as had been used, or was intended to be used, for
carrying on war against the United States.
One of those regulations provided, that when property was
liable to be lost or destroyed, in consecuence of its location
being unknown to the special agents, or from other causes, and
parties proposed, for compensation, to collect and deliver it to
such agents, at points designated by them, "supervising special
agents may contract, on behalf of the United States, for the
collection and delivery to themi of such property in their respective agencies, on the best possible terms, n6t exceeding
twenty-five. per cent. of the proceeds of the property, which
percentage must be full- compensation for all expenses, of
whatever character, incurred in collecting, preparing and de.
livering such. property at the point suggested." But it was
also provided, that, "prior to any. such contract being made,
the party proposing must submit in writing a statement of the
kind and amount of property proposed to be collected, the locality whence to be obtained, and all the facts and circumstances connected with it, particularly as to its ownership;" that
"any contract made in pursuance of this regulation must be in
writing, and restricted to the collection and delivery of particular lots at named localities, or; when circumstances clearly
justify it, to the general collection and delivery of all abandoned
-property in limited districts, not greater in any case than one
parish or county, and not more than one district to be assigned
to one contractor;" and that "should a case arise, in the opinion of the supervising special agent, justifying the payment of
a larger percentage than one-quarter of the proceeds of the
property, he will make a statement of the facts and circumstances, and the reasons in his opinion justifying such additional allowance, and refer the same to the Secretary for instructions." Regulation XIL By another regulation of the
same series it is expressly enjoined, that no liability be incurred
or assumed, or contract be made, on the part of the United States
by such agents except as authorized. Regulaion XIII.

CAMP v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

These regulations were in force when the claimant made the
before-mentioned verbal "arrangement" With 'Hart, who was
merely an assistant special agent, and n6t, as alleged in the
petition, a supervising spebial agent of the Treasury Department. Under them, only supervising special agents could bind
the United States by contracts with parties proposing, for compensation, to collect and deliver captured and abandoned property. They could not allow more than twenty-five per cent.
of the proceeds without referring the matter to the Secretary.
And no contract of that character made even by them bound
the government unless it was in writing. Plainly, therefore,
the verbal arrangement, which Camp had with an assistant
special agent, was not binding upon the United States, even
had it been redubed to writing. It imposed upon the government no legal obligation whatever. JV7ite&:d6 v. United &atm,
93 U. S.247, 250.
It is equally clear that it was not otherwise understood by
the claimant; for, Hart only agreed," to represent the arrangement and business, whatever it might be, to the -Secretary of
the Treasury," and to inform the latter that he "had assured
the claimant, by the arrangement, that..the Secretary would
allow him twenty-five per cent. of the proceeds of the cotton
at least." Camp; -evidently, undertook to bring in the cotton
and deliver it to the proper agent of the United States, in reliance upon such action as the Secretary of the Treasury, in the
exercise of his discretion, might ultimately take touching his
compensation, and not at all in the belief, that he had a binding
contract with the government. He must be held to have
known that the Secretary was not compelled to accept the
arrangement with Hart as obligatory upon the government,
but was at liberty, without violating any legal rights that Camp
had, to allow less compensation than was ordinarily allowed
under written contracts made by supervising special agents.
indeed, had the Secretary, in view of the non-conformity -of
the proceedings to his regulations, determined not to allow any
compensation whatever, it is not perceived how the jurisdiction
of the Court of Olaims could have been invoked by Camp, as
upon contract, express or implied.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of tbe Court.

The counsel for appellant rely upon Salomonv. UnitedStates,
19 Wall. 17, and Clark v. United States, 95. U. S. 539. Those
cases differ radically from the present one. In Salomon's case,
the property appropriated and used by the government was
admitted to belong to the claimant. In Clark's case, the
government received the property from the claimant under
such circumstances as precluded it from raising any question as
to his title. In each case, the United States were held liable,
as upon implied contract, to make compensation to the owner.
But there is no claim that Camp ever owned the cotton which
he delivered at Natchez; as between him and the United
States it was the property of the-latter; at any rate, he could
not legally have withheld it from the United States; its seizure
by the government was not a taking of his property; and as
he did not conform to the regulations, prescribing the only
mode in which the government could become bound, by contract, to make compensation for the recovery of the property,
he was not in a position to demand compensation as matter of
legal right. Any other view would lead to the conclusion that
parties who volufitarily brought in and delivered to the United
States captured and abandoned property were entitled, as upon
in,lied contract, to be compensated for their services; for, the
services repdered by Camp under an arrangement with an
assistant special agent, who had no authority whatever to bind
the United States in respect of compensation, present. no
stronger case, in law, for compensation, as upon implied contract, than if they were voluntarily rendered without such
previous, arrangement. -Aninterpretation of the regulations in
question different from that indicated would have resulted in
transferring to the courts the determination of matters, which
the acts of Congress committed entirely -tothe discretion of the
Secretary of the Treasury.
But it is contended thlat the government, having availed itself of the labors of claimant, and the Treasury Department
having.made t-vo payments on his claim to be compensated on
the basis fixed by the arrangement with Hart, that arrangement must.be deemed to have been ratified by the Secretary
of the Treasury as a contract with the United States, binding

CAMP v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

them to allow what was ordinarily paid by the department in
such cases, or what was, under all the circumstances, reasonable.
The precise form in which appellant's claim for compensation
was presented at the Treasury Department is not shown by the
findings of fact. The orders, given in. 1865, by the assistant
secretary, for the statement of an account and a requisition in
favor of the claimant, discloses the fact that Camp had collected the cotton "for an interest therein," and that the payment of $30,000 was intended as an advance to him, on account of his expenditures in relation to the cotton, while the
payment of $15,000 to Smith was "on account of his joint interest with Camp in said cotton." But this falls far short of
an agreement, by the department, to make further payment.
These facts, at most, imply, necessarily, nothing more than that
the department was willing, under the circumstances, to compensate him to the extent of the foregoing sums. Whether he
should receive any compensation, or how much should be
awarded him, were matters which depended, as we have seen,
upon the discretion of the Secretary of the Treasury. No one,
acting by his authority, had bound the government to make
compensation. If the Secretary refused to pay anything, the
claimant had no remedy except to apply to Congress for a
special appropriation in his behalf. The mere payment of $45,000 on a claim for a much larger sum, as compensation for
services rendered in delivering captured or abandoned property
to the government-for which services it was under no legal
obligation, express or implied, to make compensation-cannot
be deemed a recognition of a legal liability to make further
payments on such claim. We find in the record no evidence of
any purpose, or agreement, upon the part of the Secretary of
the Treasury to make compensation to claimant beyond that
already allowed; and to say that the court may award such
compensation as it deems just and proper, is to impose upon
the government the obligations of a contract, in respect of
captured or abandoned property, which, under the acts of Congress, only the Secretary of the Treasury, or such agents of
the Department as he designated for that purpose, had authority to make.

OCTOBER TERM,, 1884.
Statement ot Facts.

These views make it unnecessary to consider other questions
argued by eounsel, and lead to an affirmance of the judgment.
Judgment aflfrnwd.

MAXWELL'S EXEOUTORS v. WILKINSON &'Others.
IN ERROR tO THE CIRCUIT COITRT OF -THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Submitted January 28, 188.-Decided March 2, 1885.

A memorandum in writing of a transaction twenty months before its date, and
which the person who made the memorandum testifies that he has no recollection of, but knows it took place because he had so stated in the memorandum, and because his habit was never to sign a statement unless it was
true, cannot be read in aid of his testimony.

This is a writ of errcr by the executors of a former collector
of the port of New York to revers6 a judgment in an action
brought against him by the defendants in error on January 11,
1855, to recover back the amount of duties paid by them on
imported iron on October 23, 1852.
Upon a trial of that action on December 16, 1856, a verdict
was taken for the plaintiffs by consent, subject to the opinion
of the court upon a case to be made. On March 30, 1883, the
plaintiffs moved to set aside that verdict, and the motion was
afterwards granted, on their stipulating to waive interest from
the date of the verdict to the date of the motion.
Upon a second trial, the main question was whether the
duties had been paid under protest. The plaintiffs introduced
evidence tending to show that the entry of the goods, towhich
any protest would have been attached, could not be found at
the custom house, and called William S. Doughty, a clerk of
their consignees, who produced a copy of a protest, purporting
to be dated October 13, 1852, and to be signed by the consignees, and having upon it these two memoranda -First, in
pencil, "Handed in on the 23d day of October, 1852." Second,

