POLLEYS -. BLACK RIVER CO.
Syllabus.

Circuit Court for the-Western District of Michigan instead of
the Eastern, because the county of Ionia, in which the suit
originated, is in the former.
But the language of the removal statute is, that suits shallbe removed into the Circuit Court of the district where tuch
suits are pending. Undoubtedly-this means where they are'
pending at the time of removal. This suit was not then pending in the Western District of Michigan, but in the County of
Jackson, which is in the Eastern District of that State.
We are of opinion that the case was properly removed from
the Circuit Court of Jackson County into the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Eastern District of Michigan, and
that that court erred in remanding it.
It judgment i8 therefore revermsed, with inmt"uction-8 to Imoceed in the case according to law.
MR.

JusTICE

GRAY dissented.

POLLEYS v. BLACK RIVER IMPROVEMENT COMPANY.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRuCrr COURT OF WISCONSIN FOR THE COUNTY
OF LACROSSE.
Submitted November 17, 1884.-Decided January 12, 1885.

In error to a Scate court, the writ may be directed to an inferior court if the
Supreme Court of the State, without retaining a copy, remits the whole
record to that court with direction to enter a final judgment in the case.
The Statute of Limitations for writs of eiror, ยง 1008 Rev. Stat., begiA to run
from the date of the entry and filing of the judgment in the court's proceedings, which constitutes the evidence of the judgment.

This was a motion to dismiss a writ of error, as brought too
late. The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. S. U. Pinney for the motion.
Mr. X P. Tr ing and .r. 1. C. Sloan opposing.
VOL. CXI-6

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

:MIxE delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of Wisconsin for
the County of La Crosse, and a motion is made to dismiss it.
The first ground of the motion is that the writ should have
been directed to the Supreme Court of the .State, and cannot
be rightfully directed to the Circuit Court of the county.
It appears that the defendant in error here was plaintiff in
the Circuit Court of La Crosse County, and brought its action
against Polleys and others for relief in regard to their obstructing the navigation of Black River and its branches. The Circuit Court denied the relief and dismissed the bill. On appeal,
the Supreme Court. of the State reversed this judgment and
delivered an opinion that plaintiff was entitled to relief in the
premises; and it made an order remanding the case to the Circuit Court, with directions "to enter judgment in accordance
with the opinion of this (that) court."
-It appears by the cases cited to us, and by the course of proceedings in such cases in the Wisconsin courts, that the record
itself is remitted to the inferior court, and does not, nor dloes a
copy of it, remain in the Supreme Court. Though the. judgment in the Circuit Court was the judgment which the Supreme
Court ordered it to enter, and was in effect the judgment of the
Supreme Court, it is the only final judgment in the -"ase,and
the record of it can be found nowhere else but in the Circuit
Court of La Crosse County.
To that court, therefore, according to many decisions of this
cburt, the writ of error was properly directed to bring the record here for review. Gelatom v. Hoyt, 3 Wheat. 246; Atherton
v. Fowler, 91 U. S. 143, 146.
It is insisted that the writ of error was not brought within
time.
ยง 1008 of the Revised Statutes declares that "No judgment,
decree, or order of a circuit or district court, in any civil action
at law, or in equity, shall be reviewed in the Supreme Court,
on writ of error or appeal, unless the writ of error is brought,
or the appeal is taken within two years after the entry of such
judgment, decree, or order."
This rule is applicable to writs of error to the State courts
Mi.

JUSTICE

POLLEYS v. BLACK RIVER CO.
Opinion of the Court.

in like manner as to.Circuit Courts. Scarborough v. Pargoud,
108 U. S. 567.
In the case of Brooks v. .Nomi, 11 How. 204, construing
the same language in the judiciary act of 1789, it is said "that
the writ of error -isnot brought, in the legal meaning of the
term, until it is filed in the court which rendered the judgment. It is the filing of the writ that removes the record from
the inferior to the appellate court, and the period of limitation
prescribed by the act of Congress must be calculated accordingly." This language is repeated in .usina v. Cavazos, 6
Wall. 355, and in Scarboroughv. Pargoud, supra.
Though the writ of error in this case seems to have been
issued by the clerk of the Circuit Court of the United States
on the 10th day of May, 1884, and is marked by him for some
reason as filed on that day, it is maiked by the clerk of the
court to which it is directed, namely, the Circuit Court of La
Crosse County, as filed on the 29th day of that month. It is
not disputed that this is the day it was filed in his office. This
must be held to be the day on which the writ of error was
brought.
The judgment which we are asked to review by this writ
was entered in the Circuit Court of La Crosse County, May 24,
18S2. It is signed by the judge on that day, and is expressly
dated as of that day, and it is marked filed on that day over
the signature of the clerk of that court. This is the judgment
-the entry of the judgment-and on that day the plaintiff in
error had a right to his writ, and on that day the two years
began to run within which his right existed.
It seems that the courts of Wisconsin, either by statute or by
customary law, keep a book called a judgment docket. In this
book are entered, in columns, the names of plaintiffs who recovered judgments, and the defendants against whom they are
recovered. In another column is entered the amount -of the
principal judgment and the costs and the date of the judgment
itself.
This record is kept for the convenience of parties who seek
information as to liens on real estate or for other purposes.
This docket, however, is made up necessarily after the main

84

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opion of the Court.

ju4ment is settled and entered in the order book, or record of
the court's proceedings, and it may be many days before this
abstract of the judgment is made in the judgment docket, according to the convenienc of the clerk.
It is the record of the judicial decision or order of the court
found in the record book of the court's proceedings which constitutes the evidence of the judgment, and from the date of its
entry in that book the statute of limitation-begins to fun.
It follows that the writ 6f error in this case was brought five
days after the two years allowed by law had expired; and it
must be
)sis8ed.

PULLMAN PALACE CAR COMPANY & Others v..
SPECK & Others.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Submitted December 18, 188E4.-Decided January 5, 1885.

Within the meaning of ยง 3, act of March 8. 1875, 18 Stat. 471, regulating removals of causes from State courts, a suit in equity may be "first tried" at
the term of the State court, at which, by the rules of that court the respondent is required to answer, and the complainant may be ordered to file

replication.
This suitin equity, begun in the State courts of Illinois, was
removed to the Circuit Court of the United States, and thence
remanded to the State court. The defendants appealed from
the order remanding it.
3&r. Fard

. Iluzm and

r . Hvrtingdon W. Tack.8on for

appellants.
X&. A. X. Pence for appellees.
MEL JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from an order of the Circuit Court for the

