ROWELL v. LINDSAY.
Opinion of the Court.

ROWELL & Another v. LINDSAY & Another.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN.
Argued December 15, 16, 1884.-Decided January 5, 1685.

A patent for a combination of separate parts does not cover each part when
taken separately.
A patent for a combination is not infringed by use of one of the parts which,
united with others, makes the combination, unless-other mechanical equivalents, known to be such when the patent was granted, are substituted for
the omitted parts.
Aeding machines manufactured according to the specifications in patent No.
152,706, for a new and useful improvement in seeding Inachines, granted
to John H. Thomas and Joseph W. Thomas, June 30,1874, do-not infringe
the reissued letters patent, No. 2,909, granted to John S. Rowell and Ira
Rowell, for a new and useful improvement in cultivat6rs.

This was a suit in equity brought by the plaintiffs in error
as plaintiffs below, to restrain the defendants in error from
i~ifringing reissued patent No. 2,909 for a new and useful improvement in cultivators, granted to the plaintiffs, larch 31,
1868. The defendants denied the infringement, and justified
the manufacture of the machines alleged to be such by patent
No. 152,706 granted to John H. Thomas and Joseph W.
Thomas, June 30, 1874, for a new and useful improvement in
seeding machines. A'decree was made below in favor of the
defendants, from which the plaintiffs appealed.
.. James J Dick for appellants.
-Yr. .

. IWood for appellees.

MR. JUSTICE WOODS delive-ed the opinion of the court.
The appellants, John S. Rowell and Ira Rowell, were the
plaintiffs in the Circuit Court. They brought their bill in
equity against Edmund J. Lindday and William Lindsay; the
appellees, to restrain the infringement of reissued letters patent
No. 2,909, dated March 31, 1868, granted to the plaintiffs for
VOL. CXmI-7

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

"a new and improved cultivator." The invention was illustrated ".by the annexed drawings, and was described in the specifiation as follows:
Fig.I.

Fig.2.

"Figure 1 is a side elevation of the tooth, in a beam shown
in longitudinal section.
"Figure 2 is a top view of the beam, with the tooth in position.
"This invention consists in applying to the shank of the
tooth a curved brace-bar, the upper end of which passes
through a slot or mortise in the beam, and is held in position
by a clamping-bolt, which passes transversely through the slot
or mortise near the -brace-bar, and forces the sides of the beam

ROWVELL v. LINDSAY.
Opinion of the Court.

together against the brace-bar, so as to clamp it in any required
position, and thereby adjust the tooth in any inclination, at the
same time allowing it to yield to immovable obstacles without
breaking.
"In the drawings, A represents one of the beams of a cultivator; B, the shank, pivoted at b; B', the tooth.; 0, a curved
brace-bar, extending in the arc of a circle outward and upward
from the rear side of the shank B, and its upper end passing
vertically through a longitudinal slot or mortise, a, in the beam
A; and D a bolt, passing transversely through the slot or mortise, and having a head, d, on one end, and a nut, d', on the
other, by which the side walls of the slot or mortise can
be clamped against the brace-bar with any required force,
thereby holding the latter in position when operating in the
field.
"It is evident that in a device thus constructed and operating,
the brace-bar C can be so clamped that the tooth will retain its
position when working in arable soil, but will yield when coming in contact with an immovable obstacle, and pass over it
without breaking, the shank turning back upon its pivot, b,and
the brace-bar being forced up through the slot. The same arrangement also allows the shank to be adjusted in any position
for deep or shallow cultivating.
"Having thus described our invention, what we claim as
new, and desire to secure by letters patent, is"The combination of the slotted beam A, shank B, bracebar C,and bolt D, when the parts are constructed and arranged
to operate as and for the purposes herein specified."
The answer of the defendants, among other defences, denied
infringement of the letters patent. The plaintiffs contended
that infringement of their letters patent was made out by the
evidence, which tended to show that the defendants ecynstructed
and sold seeding machines made according to the specification
of letters patent granted to John H. Thomas and Joseph W
Thomas, dated June 30, 1874, for "an improvement in sowing
machines." This invention related to the drag-bars and shovel
standards of broad-cast seeders, and consisted mainly in the
manner of attaching the standards to the drag-bar. The inven-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

tion can be readily understood from the annexed drawings, by
which the specification was illustrated.
..
A

The bar A is cut so as to leave a slit in the rear end as at A..
-to receive the shank of the shovel . This is secured in the
slit by the bolt D. Another threaded bolt is passed through
the bar .A in such place as to sustain the shovelwhen in proper
position. The ends of the bifurcated bar are drawn down by
the bolt E or by the united action of the bolts ,E and D until
clamped against the standard of the shovel with such force
that the friction shall maintain the shovel in position while
passing through mellow earth, but not so tight but that it will
yield to an excessive resistance before force enough is applied
to break the shovel The advantages of the invention are thus
stated: "By the form given to the standard we obtain not
only the gripe onthe pivoted end, but also a gripe against the
sides of the standard, 2o that from its form it must be moved
in the direction of its length. A much less restraining force
will then hold the standard with requisite tenacity. Our device has its distinguishing feature 'in that construction, as'
shown, by which the shank is itself so bent as to give effect to
the double action of the joint at the eye and the compressing

-

ROWELL v. LINDSAY.
Opinion. of the Court.

bolt E. By making it in one piece itS construction is greatly
cheapened as compared with that class where an arm has to be
welded into the shank."
The claim of this patent was as follows: "In combination
with the drag-bar A, bifurcated at A2 , the curved shovel standard C bent as shown and pivoted by a bolt at D and clamped
by bolt , substantially as shown and described."
Upon final hearing upon the pleadings and proofs the Circuit
Court dismissed the bill; see 6 Fed. R. 290, and the plaintiffs
appealed.
The evidence shows that the shanks or standards of ploughs,
cultivators, and seeding machines have been used in a great
variety of forms. In some the upper end of the brace entered
the beam in the rear and in others in front of the shank.
In some the upper end of the shank and the brace wdre'so
formed and united as to present an elliptical figure. Many,
perhaps the majority, were without braces. In some the
upper end of the shank was made with a head in the form of
an elliptical or circular plate, called an enlaiged head. This
performed the function of a brace. The patent of the plaintiffs,
therefore, stands on narrow ground, and to sustain it it must
be so construed as to confine it substantially to the form described in the specification.
The patent of the plaintiffs is for a combination only. None
of the separate elements of which the combinatidn'is composed
are claimed as the invention of the patentee, therefore none of
them standing alone are included in the monopoly of the
patent. As was said by Mr. Justice Bradley in the case of
Tie Corn-Planter Patent., 23 Wall. 181, 22-: "Where a
patentee, after describing a machine, claims as his invention a
certain combination of elements, or a certain device, or part of
the machine, this is an implied declaration, as conclusive, so far
as that patent is concerned, as if it were expressed, that the
specific combination or thing claimed is the only part which
the patentee regards as new. True, he or some other person
may have a distinct patent for the portions not covered by
this; but that will speak for itself. So far as the patent in
question is concerned, the remaining parts are old or common

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.
and public."

See also

rwrill v. Yeomans, 94 U. S. 568, 573;

Water Afeter Co. v. Desper, 101 U. S. 332, 337. Xiller v.
Brass Co., 104 U. S. 350. These authorities dispose of the
contention of the plaintiff's counsel that their patent covers
one of the separate elements which enters into the combination,
namely, a slotted wooden beam, because, as they contend, that
element is new, and is the original invention of the patentees.
The patent being for a combination, there can be no infringement unless the combination is infringed. In Prouty v. Ruggles, 16 Pet. 336, 341, it was said: "This combination, composed of all the parts mentioned in the specification, and arranged.with reference to each other, and to other parts of the,
plough in the manner therein described, is stated to be the improvement and is the thing patented. The use of any two of
these parts only, or of two combined with a third which is
substantially different, in form or in the manner of its arrangement and connection with the others, is, therefore, not the
thing patented. It is not the same combination if it substantially
differs from it in any of its parts. The jogging of the standard
into the, beam, and its extension backward from the bolt, are
both treated by the plaintiffs as essential parts of their combination for the purpose of brace and draft. Consequently, the
use of either alone, by the defendants, would not be the same
improvement nor infringe the patent of the plaintiffs." To the
same effect see also Stimpson v. Baltimore d Susquehanna
Rail~oad Co., 10 3[low. 329; .Eames v. Godfrey, I Wall. 78;
Seymour v. Osborne, 11 Wall. 516; -Dunbarv. ilfyers, 94 U. S.
187; .Fuller v. Yentzer, 94 U. S. 288.
But this rule is subject to the qualification, that a combination may be infringed when some of the elements are employed
and for the others mechanical equivalents are used which were
known to be such at the time when the patent was granted.
Seymour.v. Osborne, ubi szra; Gould v. Rees, 15 Wall. 187;
n2ihaeuser v. Buerk, 101-U. S. 647.
In the light of these principles, we are to inquire whether
tle defendants use the combination described in the patent of
the plaintiffs. The contention of the defendants is that the
brace-bar, which is one of the elements of the combination

ROWELL v. LINDSAY.
Opinion of the Court.

covered by the patent of the plaintiffs, is not, nor is its equivalent, found in the machines made and sold by them. It is
plain, upon an inspection of the drawings, that the defendants
do not use a brace-bar similar in shape or position to that described in the plaintiff's. patent.
But the plaintiffs insist that the top of the shank, curved as
shown in the Thomas patent, is the equivalent of the brace-bar
forming one of the elements of their invention; and as the
contrivance of the defendants embodies this equivalent device
in combination with all the other elements covered by the plaintiffs' patent, that the infringement is established. Whether the
first-mentioned device is the equivalent of the latter is the question for solution. We think thecontention of the defendants
that it is not, is well grounded. The specification and drawings
of the plaintiffs' patent, and the testimony of the plaintiffs'
witnesses, show that one purpose of the brace-bar, used in the
plaintiffs' combination, was to strengthen and support the shank
between the tooth and the beam. The use of the brace-bar
enabled the plaintiffs to make the shank with less material, and,
at the same time, to increase its strength. This function is not
performed by the curved portion of the shank used by the defendants, which has not the slightest tendency to support and
strengthen the shank between the tooth and the beam, where
the greatest strain comes. On the contrary, the defendants,
by reason of the absence of the brace-bar, are forced to make
their shank of larger diameter than that used by the plaintiffs
in order to give it the requisite strength to prevent bending.
Instead bf stiffening the shank between the tooth and the
beam, it rather brings an increased strain upon that part of the
shank. We find, therefore, that the curved upper part of the
shank used by defendants does not perform one of the material
functions of the brace-bar of the plaintiffs' combination.' It
cannot, therefore, be the equivalent of the latter. For where
one patented combination is asserted to be an infringement bf
another, a device in one to be the equivalent of a device in the
other must perform the same functions.
As, therefore, there is one element of the plaintiffs' patented
combination which the defendants do not use and for which

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of"Pacts.

they do not employ an equivalent, it follows that they do not
infringe the plaintiffs' patent.
The decree of the Circuit Court, which dismi8sed the plaintiffs' bill, is afflrmed.

FIND LAY v. McALLISTER & Others.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

OR

THE EASTERN DISTRIOT OF 1iISSOURL
Submitted December 2, 1884.-ecIded January 12, 158.

The confederating together of divers persons with a purpose of preventing the
levy of a county tax, levied in obedience to a writ of mandamus, in order
to pay a judgment recovered against the-eounty upon its bonds ; and the
prevention of the sale of property seized under the levy bythreats, menaces, and hostile acts, which deterred persons from bidding for the property levied on, and intimidated tax-payers and influenced them not to pay
the tax, whereby the judgment creditor was injured to the amount of his
judgment, constitute good cause of acti a iA his favor against the parties so
conspiring.

The plaintiff in error was 'the plaintiff in the Circuit Court.
He brought his suit against Thomas McAllister and fourteen
other defendants to recover damages upon a cause of action,
which was stated in his petition substantially as follows: The
plaintiff, being the holder and owner of certain bonds issued by
the County of Scotland, in the State of Missouri, and of certain
interest coupons detached-. therefrom, recovered, on September
25, 1877, in the same Circuit Court in which the present action
was brought, a judgment on his coupons against the county for
the sum of $4,008.86. The county failing to pay the jidgment,
the Circuit Court issued a peremptory writ of mandamus commanding the County Court of Scotland County to levy and
cause tb be collected a special tax upon all the taxable property
within the county, suificient to pay the judgment, with the interest thereon and costs. At the same time writs of mandamus
were issued by the same Circuit- Court, directing the same

