OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.
brought for, a part of the lands covered by the same entry and
survey, and prayed for the same relief. The same defences were
pleaded. It follows, from what has been said in the above case,
that this suit is not within the jurisdiction of a court of equity,
and that the plaintiff has no right whatever to the lands to which
she seeks to establish title, and of which she prays to be put in
possession. The decree of the Circuit Court by which the bill
was dismissed was, therefore, right.
-Decreeaffirmed.

ST. LOUIS v. MYERS.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
Submitted November 24, 1884.-Decided March 2. 185.

The act of March 6, 1820, 3 Stat. 545, admitting Missouri into the Union left
the rights of riparian ovners on the Mississippi River to be settled according to the principles of State law.
The act of June 12, 1866, § 9, 14 Stat. 63, relinquishing to the city of St. Louis
the rights of the United States in wharves and thoroughfares, did not authorize the city to impair the rights of other riparian proprietors by extending streets into the river.
This case presents no Federal question to give jurisdiction to the court, and is
distinguished from Railway Co. v. Renwick, 102 U. S. 180.

This was a motion to dismiss for want of a Federal question
to give jurisdiction.
.2h..ffahanil4 .Ayer8 for the motion.
.Mr'. Levereit Bell opposing.
delivered the opinion of the court.
The question on which this case turned below was whether
Myers, the lessee of property situated on the bank of the
Mississippi River within the city of St. Louis, which had been
improved with a view to its use, and was used in connection
with the navigation of the river, could maintain an action
MR. CHIEF JuSTOE WAITrE

ST. LOUIS v. MYERS.
Opinion of the Court.

against the city for extending one of its streets into the river
so as to divert the natural course of the water and destroy the
water privileges which were appurtenant to the property. The
Supreme Court of the State decided that he could; and to reverse that decision this writ of error was brought.
We are unable to discover that any federal right was denied
the city by the decision which has been rendered. The act of
Congress providing for the admission of Missouri into the Union,
Act of March 6, 1820, ch. 22, 3 Stat. 545, and which declares
that the Mississippi River shall be "a common highway and
forever free," has been referred to in the argument here, but
the rights of riparian owners are nowhere ,mentioned in that
act. They are left to be settled according to the principles of
State law. Certainly there is nothing in the provisions of the
act from which a right can be claimed by the city of St. Louis,
even though it be the owner of the bed of the river, to change
the course of the water as it flows, to the injury of those who
own lands on the banks. This act was not mentioned in the
pleadings, and, so far as we can discover, it was not alluded to
in the opinions of either of the courts below except for the
purpose of' showing that the Mississippi River was in law a
navigable stream.
By an act passed June 12, 1866, ch. 116 § 9, 14 Stat. 63,
Congress relinquished to the city of St. Louis all the right, title
and interest of the United States " in and to all wharves, streets,
lanes, avenues, alleys and of the other public thorough fares"
within the corporate limits; but this did not, any more than
the act providing for the admission of Missouri into the Union,
purport to authorize the city to impair the rights of other riparian proprietors by extending streets into the river, and neither
in the court below nor here has there been any provision
referred to which it is claimed has that effect.
-

The case of Railway Co. v. Renwick, 102 U. S. 180, 182, was

entirely different from this. There the question was whether
the owner of a saw-mill on the bank of the Mississippi River,
who had improved his property by erecting piers and cribs in
the river under the authority of a statute of Iowa, but without
complyihg with the provisions of § 5251 Rev. Stat., could claim

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

compensation from the railroad company for taking his property
in the river for the construction of its road. The company
claimed that, as Congress, in the exercise of its jurisdiction over
the navigable waters of .the United States, had prescribed certain conditions on which the owners of saw-mills on the Mississippi River might erect piers and cribs in front of their property, the statute of Iowa, under which Renwick had made his
improvements, was void. This we held presented a federal
question and gave us jurisdiction; but nothing of that kind
appears in this record.
On the whole we are satisfied that no case has been made
for our jurisdiction, and
The inotion to dimi8 i granted.

BROWN, Administratrix, v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE CbOURT OF CLAIMS.
Argued January 18, 1885.-Decided March 2, 1885.
In case of ambiguity in a statute, contemporaneous and uniform executive
construction is regarded as decisive.
The provisions of the act of August 3, 1861, ch. 42,, § 23, 12 Stat. 291, relating
to the retirement of officers of the navy, having been uniformly held, by the
officers charged with their execution, to be applicable to warrant officers, are
now held to be so applicable.
The act of July 15, 1870, 16 Stat. 821, did not abolish the furlough pay list;
and an order after the passage of that act retiring a naval officer on furlough
pay was made in pursuance of law.
The administrator of a retired naval officer cannot, in order to recover from the
United'States an increase in the compensation of his intestate, take advantage of an alleged defect in the proceedings by which he was retired, and
which he acquiesced in without objection during his lifetime.
§ 1588 Rev. Stat. does not apply to officers retired on furlough pay.
Officers of the navy on the retired list are not entitled to longevity pay.
27wrey v. United States, ante, 310, affirmed.

James Brown, the intestate of the appellant, was a boatswain
in the United States navy. The petition in this case was filed
against the United States by the administratrix of his estate in

