COOPER MANUFACTURING CO. v. FERGUSON.

727

Syllabus.
It is supposed that the announcement of the judgment of the
court that he is entitled to the writ will render its issue unnecessary. If it shall prove otherwise,

lhe w24t will be is8ued on af

$cation to the clerk.

COOPER MANUFACTURING COMPANTY v. FPRGUSON & Another.
YT' ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THR
DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
Argued October 23, 1884.-Decided March 16. 1885. -

The right of a State to prescribe the terms 'upon which a foreign corporation
shall carry on its business in a State has been settled by this court.

A State act which imposes limitations upon the power of a corporation, created
under the laws of another State, to make contracts within the State for carrying on commerce between the States, violates that clause of the Constitution which confers upon Congress the exclusive right to regulate that com-

merce.
A corporation organized under the laws of one State does not, by doing a single
act of business in another State, with no purpose of doing any other acts
there, come within the provisions of a statute of the latter forbidding foreign
corporations to carry on business within it, except upon filing certificates
showing their place or places of business, their agents, and other matters
required by the statute.
The Constitution of Colorado provided that no foreign corporation should do
any business within the State without having one or more known places of
business, and an authorized ageut or agents in the same upon whom process
might be served. The legislature of the State enacted that foreign corporations, before being autliorized to do business in the State, should file a
certificate with the Secretary of State, and the recorder of the county in
which the principal business was carried on, designating the principal place
of business and the agent there on whom process might be served. A corporation of Ohio, without filing a certificate, contracted in Colorado to
manufacture machinery at its place of business in Ohio, and to deliver it in
Ohio. Held, that this act did not constitute a carrying on of business in
Colorado, and was not forbidden by its Constitution and law.
An act, in execution of a constitutional power, passed by the first legislature
after the adoption of the" Constitution, is a cotemporary interpretation of
the latter, entitled to much weight.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

Section ten of article fifteen of the Constitution of the State
of Colorado, adopted in 1876, and still in force, provides as
follows : "No foreign corporation shall do any business in this
State without having one or more known places of business
and an authorized agent or agents in the same upon whom
process may be served."
To carry into effect this clause of the Constitution, the legislature of Colorado, in the year 1877, in an act entitled "1An
Act to provide for the formation of corporations," enacted as
follows :
"SEe. 23.. Foreign corporations shall, before they are authorized or permitted to do any business in this State, make
and file a certificate, signed by the president and secretary of
such corporation, duly acknowledged, with the Secretary of
State, and in the office of the recorder of deeds of the county
in which such business is carried on, designating the principal
place where the business of such corporation shall be carried
on in this State, and an authorized agent or agents in this
State residing at its principal place of business upon whom
process may be served; and such corporation shall be subjected
to all the liabilities, restrictions, and duties which are or may
be imposed upon corporations of like character organized under
the general laws of this State, and shall have no other or
greater powers."
Section 26 of the same act provided that a failure to comply with the provisions of section 23 should render the officers,
agents, and stockholders of the corporation individually liable
on all its contracts made while the corporation was so in
default.
These provisions of the organic and statute law of the State
being in force, the plaintiff in error, which was a corporation
organized and existing under the laws of the State of Ohio,
and-having its principal place of business at Mount Vernon,
Ohio, on February 21, 1880, at the county of Larimer, in. the
State of Colorado, entered ihto a contract in writing of that
date with the defendants, who were citizens of Colorado, by
which it was agreed that the plaintiff should sell to the defendants, and deliver to them on the cars at Mount Vernon, in the

COOPER MANUFACTURING CO.. au.FERGUSON.

129

Statement of Facts.

-

State of Ohio, a steam -engine and other machinery, in consideration whereof, the defendants were to pay the plaintiff the
price stipulated in the contract for such machinery.
This suit was brought by the plaintiff on August 10, 1880,
to recover of the defendants damages for their breakh of the
contract.
The defendants, among other defences, pleaded: First. That
when the contract was entered into, the plaintiff had not
made and filed the certificate required by ยง 23 of the act of
1817. Second. That at the time of mpking the contract, the
plaintiff did not have. a known place of business in the State
of Colorado, and did not have an authorized agent or agents
in the State upon whom process might be served.
The plaintiff demurred to both these answers, because they
did not state facts sufficient to constitute a defence to the action.
Upon the hearing of the demurrer the judges of the Circuit
Court were divided in op~inion, and the presiding judge being
of opinion that .the demurrer should be overruled, it was overruled accordingly, and-the plaintiff electing to stand by its demurrer, judgment was entered against it dismissing its suit, and
for costs. By the present writ of error the plaintiff brought
that judgment under review.
The certificate of division of opinion recited the facts above
set forth, and stated the question upon which the judges differed to be: "Whether the tenth section of article sixteen"
(fifteen) "of the Constitution of the State of Colorado, and
the twenty-third section of an act of the general assembly of
the State of Colorado, passed in the year A.D. 1877, entitled
an ' Act to provide for the formation of corporations,' were, or
either of them was, under all the circumstances stated, and the
various acts passed by the legislature of Colorado, a bar in this
action."
-Yr. Walter H. Smith, October 23, 1884, argued for plaintiff
in error.
No appearance at that hearing for defendant in error.
The court having ordered a reargument, the cause was sub-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

mitted, on the 19th day of December, on behalf of plaintiff in
error by !ft. Smith on.his former oral argument and his briefs.
-Yr. Thomas -. Robinson for defendants in error, at the
same time submitted on his brief and his printed argument, in
which he contended as follows: It is well settled that the
power of a corporation created by the laws of one State, to do
business in another, depends upon the comity of the State in
which the business is to be transacted. The laws of Colorado
in this respect are absolutely prohibitory. Until their requirements have been complied with, a foreign corporation is without power to do ny business within the limits of the State.
Utley v. Clrk-Gardner Xining Co., 4 Colorado, 369. In that
case the Supreme Court of Colorado says, after holding these
provisions of the Constitution and law to be prohibitory,
"What meaning and what limits are to be assigned to the
statutory phrase 'to do business,' is a matter of elaborate argument by cbunsel. . . . Taking the language in its ordinary
acceptation, a corporation does business by the exercise of its
power to contract, its power to acquire and hold property, real
and personal, and like powers. By the exercise of these corporate powers, it carries on its corporate business in the ordinary
meaning of the term. By their exercise it establishes its business relations, assumes obligations, and acquires rights." It is
submitted that this opinion of the State court should be accepted here, as a correct interpretation of these provisions of its
laws. It is said by counsel "that the making of such 'a single
isolated contract is not doing business in the State in the sense
contemplated by the foregoing provisions." If it is not doing
business, how many isolated contracts are required to constitute
"any business" within the meaning of the prohibition? The
most extensive business that may be carried on is made up of
individual transactions or isolated contracts. If the continued
and regular business is unlawful, how can any one in the series
of contracts of which the continued and regular business is
composed be lawful? No sound argument can be made from
the hardship of the case. Each State determines its own policy
in this respect: and "when the interest or policy of any State

COOPER MANUFACTURING CO. v. FERGUSON.

731

Argument for Defendants in Error.

require it to restrict the rule, it has but to declare its will, and
the'legal presumption is at once at an end." Bank of Augusta
v. Earle, 13 Pet. 519, 590. Colorado has declared its will in
unmistakable terms. A contract made by a foreign corporation before complying with the conditions imposed by the
statute of the State in which the contract is made, is void.
The Riing Suvn In. Co. v. Slaughter, 20 Ind. 520; The Cincinnati X'. H. A. Co. v. Rosenthal, 55 Ill. 85; Nationalilfutual Fire Insurance Co. v. Pursell, 10 Alien, 232; Roche v.
-Ladd,I Allen, 441; Thorne v. The Traveller's Ins. Co., 80
Penn. St. 15; Bank of Britiah Columbia v. Page,6 Oregon,
431 ; In, re Comstock, 3 Sawyer, 218. It is necessary to give this
construction to the act in order to make it harmonize with the
provisions of ยง 26 of the same act, which impose penalties
upon offiQers, agents, and stockholders of foreign corporations,
and make them personally liable on the contracts of the corporation. If a statute imposes a penalty on -the doing of an
act, it is as much a prohibition of the act, as if it were in
terms prohibited. Miller v. Post, 1 Allen, 434, 455; Allen v.
Hawke, 13 Pick. 82; . tna Insurance Co. v. Harvey, 11 Wise.
394; Thorne v. Traveller's Ins. Co., 80 Penn. St. 15. Now,
as the prohibition which is implied from the provisions of section 26, supra, is against the making of any contract (which
may certainly be a single and isolated one), and as this section
is a part of the same act as section 23, it must be evident that
the intent of the lawmakers was that the prohibition implied
from 6ach should be co-extensive, and it follows that if a strict
construction would so limit the operation of section 2"3 as fo
make it fall short of that implied in section 26, it should not be
applied. The subject has been considered in several States,
always with one result--that a contract made by a foreign corporation in a State, without having first complied with the
conditions of the statute permitting it to do business in the
State, is void. In re Comstock, 3 Sawyer, 218, the question
arose upon the statute of Oregon, which is substantially the
same as our act, and was discussed so fully by the learned
District Judge as to leave little room for further argument.
The court held the contract made in Oregon by the foreign cor-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

poration, before a compliance with the statutory requirements,
to be void. This case is cited with approval by the Supreme
Court of Colorado in Ttley v. CUTk-Gardner X[ining Cmpany,
4 Colo. 369, in discusming the foregoing provisions of the Constitution and statutes of Colorado. The opinion of the Colorado
court in Utley's case shows'clearly the view they entertain-that
the doing of business by the foreign corporation is prohibited, except upon the performance of conditions precedent. The right
of the cbrporation to sue was upheld, because it was not doing
business within the meaning of the prohibitory provisions, as
they define the terms employed; but their definition does include the exercise.of corporate power to contract. The Oregon
statute was again considered in Bank of Briti8h Columbia v.
Page, 6 Oregon, 431, and the same conclusion reached by the
Supreme Court of that State as in the Comstock case, 8upra, and the opinion of Deady, J., in the last-mentioned case adopted
as their own. In The Cincinnati Mutual Assurance Co. v.
Roeenthal, 05 Ill. 85, it was held that an action could not be
maintained upon a promissory note taken. The same conclusion is reached in .Etna Im. Co. v. Harvey, 11 Wise. 412
"-(394 Vilas & Bryant's Ed.). In Pennsylvania, the same doctrine prevails. T/orne v. Traveller' Ins. Co., 80 Penn. St. 15.
It is settled law in Massachusetts, TFilliame v. Cheney, 3
Gray, 215, and it is maintained in Paul v. Vrginia,8 Wall.
168. In none of these cases was it made to appear that the
contract in question was other than an isolated and single
transaction.
M . JusTIE WoODs delivered the opinion of the court. IHe
recited the facts as above stated, and continued:
The right of the people of a State to prescribe generally by
its constitution and laws the terms upon which a foreign corporation shall be allowed to carry on its business in the State,
has been settled by this court. -Bank of Augusta v. Edple, 13
Pet. 519; Paul v. Virginia, 8 Wall. 168; Ducat v. Chicago,
10 Wall. 410. The plaintiff in error does not deny this right,
but insists that, upon a proper construction of ยง 10 of article 15
of the Constitution of Colorado, andof ยง 23 of the act of 1877, its

COOPER MANUFACTURING CO. v. FERGUSON.

733

Opinion of the'Court.
contract with the defendants was valid, and that its suit should
have been maintained.
As the clause in the Constitution and the act of the legislature relate to the.same subject, like statutes in pari materia,
they are to be construed together. Ekridge v. The State,
25 Ala. 30.
The act was passed by the first legislature that assembled
after the adoption of the Constitution, and has been allowed to
remain upon the statute book to the present time. It must
therefore be considered as a contemporary interpretation, entitled to much weight. Stuart v. Laird,1 Cranch, 299; Aartin
v. Bunter, 1 Wheat. 304; Colen v. Virgiia,6 Wheat. 264;
Adasn8 v. Storey, 1 Paine, 79, 90.
It must be conceded that if the contract on which the suit
was brought was made in violation of a law of the State, it
cannot be enforced in any court sitting in the State charged
with the interpretation and enforcement of its,laws. Bank of
the United States v. Owen8, 2 Pet. 527'; Groves v. Slaughter,
15 Pet. 448; Harrisv. Runnele, 12 How. 79; Brown v. Tarkington, 3 Wall. 377; David~on v. Lanier,4 Wall. 447; Hanauer
v. Doane, 12 Wall. 342; Wheeler v. Rus8ell, 17 Mass. 258;
La/w v. ffodon, 11 East, 300; Little v. Poole, 9 -B."& C. 192;
Thorne v. -Traveller8'Insurance Co., 80 Penn. St. 15 ; Allen v.
.Tawk8, 13 Pick. 79, 82; Roche v. Ladd, 1 Allen, 436, 441;
In re Cometock, 3 Sawyer, 218.
So far as appears by the record the plaintiff had no principal
place of business nor any place of business whatever in the
State of Colorado, and the making of the contract set out in
the complaint was the only business ever done by it, or that it
ever purposed to do in that State.
Th question, therefore, is whether, upon a true construction
of the Constitution and statute, the making of the contract
which the plaintiff seeks to enforce was, under the circum-stances stated, forbidden.
The contention of the defendants in error is that the prohibition against the doing of any business in the State by a
foreign corporation, except upon the prescribed condition, includes the doing of any single and isolated act of business what-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Cour.

ever. Thus "broadly stated, it is clear that the interpretation
of the defendants cannot be sustained. In a case involving the
construction of the statute, the Supreme Court of Colorado
held that a foreign corporation might, without complying with
the provisions of the statute, maintain an action in the courts
of the State to recover damages for trespass to its real estate.
The court said: "The prohibition extends to doing business
before the compliance with the terms of the statute. We do
not think this an abridgment of the right of a foreign corporation to sue. It extends only to the exercise of the powers by
which it may be said to ordinarily transact or carry on its business.
To what extent the exercise of these powers is affected we do
not decide." Utley v. Dhe Clark-Gardner Mfining Co., 4 Colorado, 369. So it is clear the statute cannot be construed to
impose upon a foreign corporation limitations of its right to
make contracts in the State for carrying on commerce between
the States, for that would make the act an invasion of the exqlusive right of Congress to regulate- commerce among the
several States. Paulv. lVirgin.a, 8 Wall. 168. The prohibition against doing any business cannot, therefore, be literally
interpreted.
Reasonably construed, the Constitution and statute of Colorado forbid, not the doing of a single act of business in the State,
but the carrying on of business by a foreign corporation without the filing of the certificate and the appointment of an agent
as required by the statute. The Constitution requires the
foreign corporation to have one or more known places of business in the State before doing any business therein. This
implies a purpose at least to do more than one act of business.
For a corporation that has done but a single act of business,
and purposes to do no more, cannot have one or more known
places of business in the State. To have known places of
business it must be carrying on or intending to carry on
business. The statute passed to carry the provision of the Constitution into effect, makes this plain, for the certificate which
it requires to be filed by a foreign corporation must designate
the principal place in the State where the business of the corporation is to be carried on. The meaning of the phrase "to

COOPER MANUFACTURING CO. v. FERGUSON.

735

Opinion of the Court.

carry on" when applied to business is well settled. In Worcester's Dictionary the definition is: "To prosecute, to help
forward, to continue, as to carry on business." The definition
given to the same phrase in Webster's Dictionary is: "To continue, as to carry on a design; to manage or prosecute, as to
carry on husbandry or trade." The making in Colorado of
the one contract sued on in this case, by which one party agreed
to build and deliver in Ohio certain machinery and the other
party to pay for it, did not constitute a carrying on of business
in Colorado.
The obvious construction, therefore, of the Constitution and
the statute is, that no foreign corporation shall begin any business in the State, with. the purpose of pursuing or carrying it
on, until it has filed a certificate designating the principal place
where the business of the corporation is to be carried on in the
State, and naming an authorized agent, residing at such principal place of business, on whom process may be served. To
require such a certificate as a prerequisite to the doing of a
single act, of business when there was no purpose to do any
other business or have a place of business in the State, would
be unreasonable and incongruous.
The case of Potter v. The Bank of Ithaca, 5 Hill, 490, tends
to support this conclusion. The charter of the bank provided
that its operations of discount and deposit should be carried on
in the village of Ithaca, and not elsewhere. The cashier discounted a note in the city of New York, for the purpose of
securing a demand due the bank, and the fact that the note
was discounted in New York City was set up as a defence to a
suit on the note. In giving judgment for the bank, Nelson,
Chief Justice, said, the statute "obviously relates to the regular
and customary business operations of the bank, and does not
apply to a single transaction like the one in question." A
similar ruling was made in Suydam v. The 3orri8 Canal amid
Banking Company, 6 Hill, 217. See also Grahamv. .ffendrick8,
22 La. Ann. 523.
We base the conclusion that the demurrer to the defendant's
answer should have been sustained upon the interpretation we
have given to the Constitution and statute, and do not find it

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Concurring Opinion: Matthews, Blatchfori, J.

necessary to decide whether their provisions invade the exclusive right of Congress to regulate commerce among the
several States. We have examined all the cases cited by the
defendaqts to suport their interpretation.* In none of them
was the statute construed, similar in its language or provisions
to the Constitution or statute under consideration, and the cases
can have no controlling weight in the present controversy.
We are of opinion that there was error in the judgment of
the Circuit Court. The judgment must therefore be reversed,
and the cause remanded for further proceedings, in conformity
with this opinion;
80
MR. Jusmion' M Trnws.

Mr. Justice Blatchford and myself concur in the judgment
of the court announced in this case, but on different grounds
from those stated in the opinion.
Whatever power may be conceded to a State, to prescribe
conditions on which foreign corporations may transact business
within its limits, it cannot be admitted to extend so far as to
prohibit or regulate commerce among the States; for that
would be to invade the jurisdiction which, by the terms of the
Constitution of the United States, is conferred exclusively upon
Congress.
In the present case, the construction, claimed for the Constitution of Colorado, and the statute of that State passed in
execution of it, cannot be extended to prevent the plaintiff hi
error, a corporation of another State, from transacting any
business in Colorado, which, of itself, is commerce. The transaction in question was clearly of that character. It was the
making of a contract in Colorado "to manufacture certain
machinery in Ohio, to be there delivered for transportation to
the purchasers in Colorado. That was commerce; and to
*1hre CornatoeAk.3 Sawyer, 218; Rank of Brii8 CoZumbia v. Page, 6 Oregon,

431; Thrne v. The Traveler' Ins. Co., 80 Penn. St. 15; Roche v. Ladd, I Allen,
441; The Rising Sun Ins. Co. v. ,Slaughter,20 Ind. 520; National Nut. Fire

Ina. Co. v. Pur8efl, 10 Alien, 231; Cincinnati Zutual Assurance Co. v.
Rosenthal, 55 111. 85; AEtna Inmurance Co. v. Harveky, 11 Wise. 894, Vilas &
Bryant's Ed. 412.

CARTER v. BURR.
Counsel for P arties.

prohibit it, except upon conditions, is to regulate commerce
between Colorado and Ohio, which is within the exclusive province of Congress. It is quite competent, no doubt, for Colorado to prohibit a foreign corporation from acquiring a domicil
in that State, and to prohibit it-fron carrying on within that
State its business of manufacturing machinery. But it cannot
prohibit it from sellinig in Colorado, by contracts made there,
its machinery manufactured elsewhere, for that would be to
regulate commerce among the States.
, In Paul-v.-Ftrginia,8 Wall. 168, the issuing of a policy of
insurance was expressly held not to be a transaction of commerce, and, therefore, not excluded from the control of State
laws; and the decision in that case is predicated upon that
distinction. It is, therefore, not inconsistent with these views:*

CARTtR v.- BURR, Administratrix.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF OOLUMBIA.
Argued November 24, 25,1884.-Decided March 16, 1885.

On the facts in this case, it is decided that the promissory note held by the appel16e, secured by mortgage of premises in the city of Washington, executelby
D., the maker of the note, to the appellant, was not paid by the transactions
set forth in the opinion of the court, but remained in fore, with the right
to participate in the proceeds arising from a sale under the mortgage.

The facts which make the case are stated in the opinion of
the court. The case was argued at the same time with Carter.
v. Carui,.112 U. S. 478, which related to another note secured.,
by the same mortgage.
-fY. H. 0. CMaught
-.

R..

088

for appellant.

Pe4 for appellee.

voL. cxmn-47

