ANDERSON COUNTY COMMISSIONERS v. BEAL. 227
Syllabus

action of the mayor and council, the suit was dismissed here
on the basis of that compromise order.
In the case before us we see no reason to impeach the transaction by which the new bonds were substituted for the old,
and for the judgment we are asked to reverse, and
The writ of error i8 (Zsiniwed.'

ANDERSON COUNTY COMMISSIONERS v. BETL.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF KANSAS.
Submitted January 9, 188.-Decided January 26, 1885.
Bonds issued by Anderson County, in Kansas, under, legislative authority, and
in payment of its subscription to the stock of a railroad company, after the
majority of the voters of the countyhad, at an election, voted in favor of subscribing for the stock and issuing the bonds, recited, on their face, the
wrong statute, but also stated that they were issued "in pursuance to the
vote of the electors of Anderson County, September 13, 1869." The statute
in force required that at least 30 days' notice of the election shoild be given,
and made it the dtty of the Board of County Commissioners to subscribe
for the stock and issue the bonds, after such assent of the majority of the
roters had been given. In a suit against the board on coupons due on the
bonds, brought by a bona fide holder of them, it appeared, by record evidence, that the )board made an order for the election 38 days before it was
to be held, and had canvassed the returns and certified that there was a
majority of voters in favor of the proposition, and had made such vote the
basis of their action in subscribing for the stock and issuing the bonds to
the company ; and the court directed the jury to find a verdict for the
plaintiff ; Held:
(.) The statement in the bonds, as to the vote, was equivalent to a statement
that the vote was one lawful and regular in form, and such as the law then
in force required, as to prior notice ;
(2.) As respected the plaintiff, evidence by the defendant.to show less than 80
days' notice of the election could not avail ;
(3.) The case was within the decision'lu lbw of Cooma v. Eaves, 92 U. S.
484.
(4.) The rights of the plaintiff were not affected by any dealing by the board
with the stock subscribed for;
(5.) The issue or use of the bonds not having been enjoined, for two years and

OCTOBER TERM. 1884.
Statement of Facts.
a half, between the day of election and the ime the company parted with
the bonds for value, and the county having, for 10 years, paid the interest
annually on the bonds, it was estopped, as against the plaintiff, from
defending on the ground of a want of proper notice of the election.
(6.) As the bill of exceptions contained all the evidence, and the defendant did
not ask to go to the jury on any question of fact, and the questions were
wholly questions of law, and a verdict for the defendant would have been
set aside, it was proper to direct a verdict for the plaintiff.

This was an action at law, brought in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the District of Kansas, by Thomas P.
Beal, against the .Board of County Commissioners of the
County of Anderson, in the State of Kansas, to recover the
amount of 90 coupons for $70 each due January 1, 1881, and
the same amount due January 1, 1882. The coupons were cut
.from bonds alike except as to their numbers, of the following
form:
" No.

.

C-ounty of Anderson.

1,000.

State of Kansas.
United States of America,
Know all men by these presents, that the county of Anderson acknowledges to owe and promises to pay to Leavenworth,
Lawrence & Galveston Railroad Co., or bearer, one thousand
dollars, lawful money of the United States of America, on the
first day of January, in the year of our Lord ond thousand nine
hundred, at the Farmers' Loan and Trust Co. Bank, in the
city of New York, with interest at th6 rate of seven per centum
per annum, payable annually on the first day of January in
each year, on the surrender of the annexed coupons as they
severally become due.
This bond isI executed and issued under the provisions of, and
in conformity to, An Act -of the Legislature of the State of
Kansas, approved February 26, 1866, entitled, An Act to
amend an Act entitled.-An Act to authorize counties and cities
to issue bonds to railroad companies, approved February 10,
1865, and in pursuance to the vote of the electors of Anderson
County, of September 13, 1869.
In testimony whereof, The Board of County Commissioners
of the said county of Anderson have caused these presents to
be signed by the chairman of said ,Board and by the clerk of

ANDERSON COUNTY COMMISSIONERS v. BEAL. 229
Statement of Facts.
the county, and to be sealed with the seal of said county, and
to be registered by the treasurer of said county.
Dated January 1, 1870.
[sR,,.]
H. CA ENDER, Chdrman.
A. SmxoNs, Trea urer.
J. H. WimTs, Clerk."
The coupons read thus:

"No.

$70.
The county of Anderson, State of Kansas, will pay to the
Leavenworth, Lawrence & Galveston Railroad Company, or
bearer, at the Farmers' Loan & Trust Co.'s Bank, in the city of
New York, on the first day of January, A D. 188-, seventy
dollars, interest due on their bond.
J. H. W=LIAM,
-

County Clerk.")
The petition averred, as to each bond, that it erroneously
recited that it was issued under the-provisions of the act of
February 20, 1866, whereas it was issued "under the provisions
of, and in conformity to, the laws of the State of Kansas then
in force, and in pursuance to the vote of the electors of Anderson County, of September 13, 1869, at an election regularly
and duly ordered and held for that purpose ;" that the bond
was issued in payment of a subscription theretofore made by
the county to the capital stock of the Leavenworth, Lawrence
and Galveston Railroad Company; that on March 27, 1872,
the bond was duly registered in the office of the auditor of the
State; that, as each coupon falling due prior to January 1,
1881, matured, the same was paid by the officers of the county
with the proceeds of a tax levied and collected each year by
said county from its tax-payers for that purpose; and that,
after said registration, and before the coupons became due,
they became,"for value, the property of the plaintiff.
The answer admitted, that, pursuant to an order passed by
the Board of County Commissioners of the county, on the .11th
of August, 1869, ordering a special election therefor, the said
board submitted to the qualified voters of the county the ques-

OCTOBER TERM1, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

tion of issuing bonds to said company, a copy of the order be-.
ing annexed to the answer. It averred, that the bonds were
issued without any consideration therefor, and without authority of law, and a vote was taken in the county on the 13th of
September, 1869, pursuant to said submission, without the legal
notice of thirty days having been given, at which election a
majority of the persons voting voted in -the affirmative; that
up to the 1st of January, 1870, and for some time thereafter,
the company's track was not completed, equipped or in full
operation to the town of Garnett; that on the 5th of November, 1869, the company, through its president, Mr. Joy, corruptly induced Cavender and Lowry, who'were a majority of
the board, to agree to subscribe for 2,000 shares, of $100 each,
of the capital stock of the company, and to sell and transfer
the stock, for $1, to Joy, and to issue to Joy, in trust for the
company, to b delivered by him to.the company, when the
road should be completed to Garnett, $200,000 of the bonds of
the county; that for that purpose the commissioners made an
order, on that day, of which a copy is annexed to the answer,
and carried out said agreement; and .that the plaintiff had
knowledge of such corrupt agreement and of said facts before
he acquired any of said bonds or -coupons. There was a reply
denying all the allegations of the answer.
The case was tried by a jury, which found a verdict for the
plaintiff, for $14,321.34, for which amount, with costs, judg.ment was rendered. The defendant brought a writ of error. There was a bill of exceptions setting forth all the evidence.
The oder of August 11, 1869, made by the board, was as follows:
"Ordered by the Board, that a special election be held in the
several voting precincts in the county of Anderson, on Monday, September 13, 1869, whereat shall be submitted to the
qualified voters, electors of said county, for adoption or rejection, the following proposition, to wit: Shall the county of Anderson subscribe $200,000 to the capital stock of the Leavenworth, Lawrence & Galveston Railroad Company, and issue
the bonds of the county in payment thereof; said bonds pay-

ANDERSON COUNTY COMMISSIONERS v. BEAL. 231
,Statement of Facts.

able thirty years after their date, bearing interest at the rate
of 7 per cent. per annum, payable annually ; said bonds to bear
date of January 1, 1870, and to be issued and delivered to said
railroad company on the 1st day of January, A. D. 1870, and
before that time, if said railroad shall on ,or before that time
complete its line of railway to the town of Garnett, in said
county; and, if said line of railway shall not be completed thus
far by that time, then said bonds to be issued and delivered
when said line of railway is completed to the town of Garnett,
in said county, provided the county of Anderson be released
from all propositions or votes taken to subscribe stock and issue
bonds to said railroad company. Electors desiring to 'vote on
tfie above proposition shall have their tickets written or printed
as above, and shall add thereto, for or against the subscription
of stock to the Leavenworth, Lawrence and Galveston R. R.
Co., as the electors may desire to vote.
H. CA wN ER, Chairman.
Attest:
REUBEN LowRy, Afember.

J. H. .WmnJIAs, 7lerk."
Among the proceedings of the board were these:
"COUNTY CI= 's 0oIE, GAmRET,
AD.RsoN COUNTY, EKL's, 8,ejtember 17, 1869.
Board of County Commissioners met pursuant to law for the
purpose of -canvassing returns, of the election, held in said
county on the 13th day of September, 1869, for the purpose of
voting upon a proposition to vote stock to certain railroad companies.
Present: H. Cavender, chairman; J. B. Lowry, members
present;' and we find the vote as follows:"

Then followed a statement showing that there were 551
votes in favor of the proposition, and 372 against it, and the
following certificate:
"We hereby certify that the proposition to subscribe stock
to the Leavenworth, Lawrence & Galveston Railroad Company

OCTOBER TERM,

1884.

Statement of Facts.

received five hundred and fifty-one votes, and that there were
three hundred and seventy-two votes against said proposition.
H. CA ENDER, Chalirman.
Attest:

J. H. WILLIAMS, Cler.

"

J. B. LowRY, Mfember.

The order of November 5, 1869, made by the board, contained the following:
"Resolved, That the Board of County Commissioners of Anderson County, Kansas, for and in behalf of Anderson County,
in accordance with the vote heretofore had and taken of the
electors of said county to that effect, hereby subscribe for ti;o
thousand shares of the capital stock of the Leavenworth, Lawrence and Galveston Railroad Company, of one hundred dollars each, making in amount two hundred thousand dollars.
Resolved, That the stock above subscribed for by this Board
in behalf of Anderson County is hereby sold and trangferred,
for and in consideration of the sum of one dollar, the receipt
whereof is hereby acknowledged, to James F. Joy, president
of said railroad company, and the chairman of this Board is
authorized to sign a transfer of said stock to said James F. Joy,
and to assign the certificate for said stock issqed to Anderson
County by said railroad company, and to authorize, insuch assignment, the necessary transfer of said stock on the books of
said company."
Among the proceedings of the board were these :
"CoumrY C=n'

Oi'cn, GARmrr,
July 8, 1870.
Board of County Commissioners met pursuaut to adjournment; full quorum present; minutes of preceding meeting read
and approved.
Whereas, on the 5th day of November, A.D. 18.69, the Bo. rd
of County Commissioners of Anderson CountySttd tf 'Kansas, did formally issue to the Leavenworth.. -ewrenc
-Glveston Railroad Company the bonds of Andetsonm.oh ;Y,tothe

ANDERSON COUNTY COMMISSIONERS v. BEAL. 233
Statement of Facts.

sum of $200,000, according to provisions of the vote of the electors of said county, and did place the said bonds in the hands of
James F. Joy, to be delivered to said railroad company when
the said railroad should be completed to the town of Garnett,
said bonds to bear interest at the rate of 7 per cent. per annum
from the 1st day of January, 1870, but in case said railroad
should not be completed to Garnett by the 1st day of January
aforesaid, the interest accruing upon said bonds from said first
day of January, 1870, to the time said road should be completed
to said town of Garnett should be cancelled;
And whereas, on the 8th day of July, 1870, M. R. Baldwin,
sup't of said L., L. & G. R. R. Co., did certify to this Board
that said railroad was cimpleted, equipped, and operated to the
town of Garnett on the 1st day of March, 1870;
I Therefore, this Board do authorize the same James F. Joy to
deliver said bonds to said railroad company upon returning the
coupons of said bonds, and the amount 'of interest accrued
upon said bonds, between the 1st day of January and March,
1870, to the treasurer of Anderson County.
Minutes read and approved. On motion, Board adjourned
to meet on Tuesday, July 19, 1870, at 9 A. m.
GEO. W. ILE ,

Chairnmanof the Board of County Cnommisionem,
Attest:

[swn.]

.Anderson County, .zn&am.

J. H. Winims, Clerk."

"CouNWv CLERK'S OFFICE,
A vEroN Cour, K. sAs, Sept. 5, 1870.
Being the first Monday of September, 1870, Board of County
Commissioners met pursuant to law. Present, Geo. W. fler,
chairman, J. B. Lowry, and J. W. Vaughn. Met for the purpose of levying' taxes for the year 1870, at which time the following taxes were levied, to be collected for the year. 1870, to
wit: That there be levied on all the taxable property of said
county the sum of four mills per dollar on all. taxable property
of said county, for road purposes. It is hereby ordered, that
there be levied on the taxable -property of Anderson County
the sum of 7J mills per each dollar, to pay ten months' inter-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

est on the bonds of said county issued to the Leavbnworth,
Lawrence & Galveston Railroad Company, for the year 1870,
the two months' interest from January 1, 1870, to March 1,
1870, having been agreed upon between said railroad company
and the Board of County Commissioners, to be cancelled.
Iler and Vaughn, for the levy.
J. B. Lowry enters his protest as follows:
The undersigned, commisioner of Anderson Cbunty, protests
against the action of the majority of said Board in the matter
of the levying of taxes for the payment of the interest on the
L., L. & G. R. R. bonds for the following reasons, to wit:
Said bonds are not legally in the hands of said railroad company, if in the hands of said railroad company at alL
J. B. LowRY,

Attest:
[SEAL.]

.Member of the Board of County
Commissioners of Anderson County.
J. HI. WILt.IAS, Clerk"

After the plaintiff had offered in evidence the coupons sued
upon, and one of the bonds (the bond having on it a certificate
of the auditor of the State, dated Mach 27, 1872, that it had
been regularly issued, and had been ,duly registered in his office, under the act of March 2, 1872, and a guaranty by the
company of the payment of it, and of its coupons), and the
order of August 11, 1869, and the proceedings of September
17, 1869, and July 8, 1870, and September 5, 1870, and a copy
of the registration of the bonds in tht. office of the auditor of
the State, he rested his case. Thereupon the defendant demurred to the evidence, and asked the court to declare the law
to be, that, upon the pleadings and proofs, the plaintiff was not
entitled to recover, but the court refused so to do, and the defendant excepted.
The defendant then introduced the two resolutions of November 5, 1869, above set forth; and also gave evidence for the
purpose of showing that previous notice of the holding of 'the
election was published in a newspaper at Garnett only twentyfour days before the day of the election, and not thirty days.
There was also evidence .given in reply, by the plaintiff, to show

ANDERSON, COUNTY COMMISSIONERS v. BEAL. 235
Argument for

Plaintiff in Error.

that the county paid the interest on the bonds every year, down
to that which fell due January 1, 1881 ; that in March, 1872,
when the bonds were registered in the office of the auditor of
the State, they belonged to the company; and that it afterwards sold them for full value to various parties.
At the close of the evidence, the court instructed the jury
to find a verdict for the plaintiff, and the defendant excepted
to such instruction.
X.r.. A. Bergen for plaintiff in error.-The bonds in suit recite that they were issued in conformity with the act of the
Kansas legislature of February 26, 1866. This is equivalent
to a declaration that the requirements of that act as to preliminary proceedings necessary to the validity of the issue have
been complied with. AoClure v. Oxford, 94 U. S. 429, 432;
Lewi8 v. Commisioners, 105 U. S. 739, 749. The act of 1866
was repealed when these bonds were issued, and another act
passed in 1869 was in force. The former required twenty days'
notice of the meeting called to authorize the issue; the latter
required thirty days' notice. This is a good defence, which may
be availed of against a purchaser for value. Buohanan v.
Litchtl, 102 U. S. 278, 292. Commiosioners of Jonson
County v. January,94 U. S. 02, is not in conflict with this.
The registration of these bonds was made before the act of
1872 took effect, and is nugatory. Bigsell v. Spring *alley
Townekip, 110 U. S. 162. The plaintiff has not shown that
the thirty days' notice of the meeting required by the act of
1869 was given. It was incumbent on him to do this affirmatively. The act of 1866 required notice in a newspaper: that
of 1868 (which repealed the act of 1866) notice by posting and
notice in a newspaper; that of 1869 required notice but did
not indicate how it should be made. It should be given as
required by the act of 1868, thirty days in advance, by posting,
and by publication. The evidence shows twenty days' notice
by publication, but witnesses did not know of posting. Lastly,
these questions are resjudiiata."
.Mr. WaZllace Prattand .Mr. Jeferson,Brumbach for defendant in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

M-m JUSTIOE BIAircHoro delivered the opinion of the court.
He recited the facts, as above stated, and continued:
It is not disputed that the recital, in the bond, that it was
issued under the act of February 26, 1866, Sess. Laws of Kansas,
1866, ch. 24, p. 72, was an error. That act authorized county
subscriptions to the stock of railroad companies, when authorized
by a majority of the votes cast at a county election, if twenty
days' notice of the election had first been given "in some newspaper published and having general circulation in the county,
or, in case there be no paper publis]ed in the county, then by
written or printed notices posted up in each election precinct,
twenty days previous to the day of such election;" and it authorized bonds of the county to be issued in payment-for the
stock. But it was repealed by the enactment of sections 1
and 2. of cbapter 119 of the General Statutes of Kansas, of
1868 (pp. 1123, 1127), and for it were substituted sections 51,
52 and 53 of chapter 23 of such General Statutes of 1S, entitled "An Act concerning private corporations," pp. 203, 204.
Those sections authorized subscriptions by counties to the stock
of railway companies created by Kansas, if the subscription
was first assented to by a majority of the qualified voters of
the county, at an election of which notic6 should be given "1at
least sixty days before the holding of the sam6." By the act
of February 27, 1869, Sess. Laws of Kansas, 1869,. ch. 29, p.
108, sections 51, 62 and 53 of chapter 23 of the General Statutes of 1868, were repealed, and the following sections were
substituted:
"SEc. 51. The board of county commissioners of any county,
the city council of any city, or the trustees of any incorporated
town, may subscribe for and take stock, for such county, city
or town in, or loan the credit thereoftdr, any railway company
duly organized undbr this or any other law of the State or Territory of Kansas, upon such conditions a, "maybe prescribedby the aforesaid county, city or toWh auttiorities; Provied,
however, that.a majority of the qpalified voters-of such couty,
city or town, .voting upon such- qtestion of" 'ibscripnmg and
taking such stock, shall, at a regular or spebial electjn .to be
held therein, first, assent to such 'subscri]tifon: and 66 .tehrms

ANDERSON COUNTY COMMISSIONERS v. BEAL. 237
Opinion of the Court.
and conditions prescribed as aforesaid, upon which the same
shall be made; and provi&de, furiker, that when such assent
shall have- been given, to such subscription as aforesaid, it shall
be the duty of the said county, city or town authorities, as the
case may be, to make such subscription.
"SEa. 52. A special election may be ordered by the county
commissioners of any county, the city council of any city, or
the corporate authorities of any town, at any time, for the purpose of ascertaining the sense of the voters of such county, city
or town, as contemplated in the preceding section. Notice of
such election shall be given at least thirty days before theholding of the same, ,and the question or questions to be submitted thereat shall be set forth in such notice.
"SEC. 53. Upon the making of such subscription, such county,
city or town shall thereupon become, like other, subscribers to
such stock, entitled to the priVileges granted, and subject to
the same liabilities imposed by this act, or by the charter of
the company in which such stock is taken, except as the same
shall be varied and limited by the terms and conditions upon
which the said subscriptions shall have been authorized and
made. And it shall be the duty of the board of county commissioners or city council or trustees 'of the town, making such
subscription as aforesaid, to pay for the same and the stock
thereby agreed to be taken by such county, city or town, by
issuing to the company entitled thereto, the bonds of such
county, city or town at par, payable at a time to be fixed, not
exceeding thirty years from the date thereof, bearing interest
at the rate of seven per cent. per annum, and with interest
coupons attached."
It is very clear that there was legislative authority, under,
the act of 1869, for the issuing of the bonds in question. There
was an election, and the requisite majority of those who-voted
assented to the proposition for the subscription to the stock
and the issue of the bonds, and the subscription was made by
the proper officers, and they issued the bonds, and when it was
certified to them that the road was completed to Garnett they
authorized the bonds to be delivered to the company, and the
bonds were delivered in payment for the subscription and for

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

the stock agreed to be taken. The only question made is as to
the notice of the election.
It is contended that the recital in the bond, that it is issued
under the provisions of the act of 1866, is a recital that only
twenty days' notice of the election was given. But the meaning
of the act of 1866 was, that at least twenty days' notice should
be given, and even if the recital amounted to a statement that
the notice prescribed by that act had been given, it would
not necessarily mean that exactly twenty days' notice, or only
twenty days' notice, had been given.
In the case of NcClure v. Townhip of Oxford, 94IU. S. 429,
cited by the defendant, the bonds were issuedlinder an act which
took effect only eighteen days before the election washeld, and,
as the act required thirty days' notice of .the election, it was
held that the face of the bond, with the act recited in it, showed
that the statute had not been complied with. Wherever the
want of legislative authority appears by the face of the bond,
taken in connection with the act which the bond mentions,
every taker of the bond has notice of the want of power. But
no suc case is here presented.
The bond recites the wrong act, but if that part of the recital be rejected, there remains the statement, that the bond "is
executed and issued" "in pursuance to the vote of the electors
of Anderson County, of September 13, 1869." The act of 1869
provides, that when the assent of a riajority of those voting at
the election is given to the subscription to the stock, the county
commissioners shall make the subscription, and shall pay for
it, and for the stock thereby agreed to be taken, by issuing to
the company the bonds of the county. The provision of section 51 is, "that when such assent shall have been given," it
shall be the duty of the county commissioners to make the sub-scription. What is the meaning of -the words "such assent"?
•They mean the assent of the prescribed majority, as the result
of an election held in pursuance of such notice as the act prescribes. -The county commissioners were the persons authorized by the act to ascertain and°determine whether "such
assent" had~been given; and necessarily so, because, on the
ascertainment by them of the fact of "such assent," they were

ANDERSON COUNTY COMMISSIONERS v. BEAL. 239
Opinion of the Court.
charged with "the duty "-that is the language-of making
the subscription, and the duty of issuing the bonds. They
were equally charged with the duty of ascertaining the fact of
the assent.
The record evidence of their proceedings shows, that their
order for the election was made thirty-three days before the election was to be held; that they met "pursuant to law for the
purpose of canvassing returns of the election;" that they discharged that duty and dertified that there was a majority of
votes in favor of the proposition; that, in November, 1869,
they resolved that, "in accordance with the vote, heretofore
had and taken, of the electors of said county to that effect,"
they subscribed for the stock; and that, in July, 1870, in their
order authorizing the bonds to be delivered by Joy to the company, they recited that the bonds were issued "accordin g to
the provisions of the vote of the electors of said county." 1n
view of all this, the statement by the commissioners, in the
bond, that it is issued "in pursuance to the vote of the electors
of Anderson County, of September 13, 1869," is equivalent to
a statement that "the vote" was a vote lawful and regular in
form, and such as the law then in force required, in respect to
prior notice. The case is, therefore, brought within the cases,
of which there is a long line in this court, illustrated by Town
of Coloma v. Eaves, 92 U. S. 484, 491, and which hold, in the
language of that case, that, "where -legislative authority has
been given to a municipality or to its officers to subscribe for
the stock of a railroad company, and to-issue municipal bonds
in payment, but only on some precedent condition, such as a
popular vote favoring the subscription, and where it may be
gathered from the legislative enactment, that the officers of the
municipality were invested with the power to decide whether
the condition precedent has been complied with, their recital
that it has been, made in the bonds issued by them and held
by a bona,fde purchaser, is conclusive of the fact, and binding
upon the municipality; for the recital is itself a, decision of the
fact by the appointed tribunal." This doctrine is adhered to
by this court. .Dixon Cournty v. Field, 111 U. S. 83, 93, 94.
In the present case, there was nothing shown to rebut the

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

presumption arising from the prQduction of the coupons,'that
the plaintiff was, pmz facie the holder of them for value.
The defendant did not show any want, or failure, or illegality,
of consideration. By the passage of the first resolution of November 5, 1869, the board thereby subscribed for the stock.
The transactions between the board, on the one side, and Mr.
Joy as president of the company, and the company, on the
other side, before and at the time the bonds were finally delivered to the company, were an acceptance of the subscription.
The statute, § 53, provided, that, on the making of the subscription, the bonds should be issued to the company, to pay
for the subscription and for the stock agieed to be taken.
When the bonds were delivered to the company, the transaction was complete, and the bonds, as they afterwards passed to
bonaf&de holders, passed free from any impairment by reason
of any dealing by the board with the stock subscribed for, to
which the county became entitled by the issuing and delivery
of the bonds. The board may have committed an improper act
in partingwith thestock, but that is no concern of a bonaJFd
hdlder of the bonds or coupons.
It is further to be said, that if there was, in fact, any want
of proper notice of the election, the omission was only an irregularity in the exercise of an express power to issue the bonds,
an irregularity in respect to a step forming part of preliminary
conditions, and that the failure of the municipality and of the
tax-payers to enjoin the issue or use of the bonds, during the
long period from the day of the election, September 13, 1869,
until the bonds were registered in March, 1872, when they still
belonged to and were in the hands of the company, coupled
with the annual payment by the county, for ten years, of the
interest on the bonds, are sufficient grounds for holding that
the municipality is, estopped from defending on the ground of
such non-compliance with a condition precedent as is set up in
this case, after the bonds have been negotiated for value by the
company. The record of the proceedings of the board shows
that a tax was levied to pay the interest which fell due January 1, 1871, while the company still held the bonds.
There was no error in overruling the demurrer to the evi-

ANDERSON COUNTY CONNISSIONERS v. BEAL.

241

Opinion of the CourL
dence, which the plaintiff had given to sustain his case at the
time the demurrer was interposed, or in overruling the motion
to instruct the jury at that time, that, upon the pleadings and
proofs he'was not entitled to recover. Upon such evidence, all
of which was record evidence, admitted without objection, and
involving no disputed question of fact, but only matters of law,
the plaintiff was entitled to recover, as has been shown. For
the same reasons, it was not error to instruct the jury, at the
close of the trial, to find a verdict for the plaintiff. The only
defences set up in the answer were those as to the notice of the
election and as to the transfer of the stock to Joy. The first
resolved itself into a question of law, and the latter was immaterial. The defendant did not ask to go to the jury on any
question of fact, and, if a verdict had been rendered for the defendant, it would have been the duty of the court, under the
views of the law above laid down, to set it aside.
In PleasantM v. Pant, 22 Wall. 116, 120, this court said, by
Mr. Justice Miller, citing Improvement Co. v. .Xunon,14 Wall.
442, 448, that "in every case, before the evidence is left to the
jury, there is a preliminary question for the judge, not whether
there is literally no evidence, but whether there is any upon
which a jury can properly proceed to find a verdict for the
party producing it, upon whom the onu.s of proof is imposed."
Those cases were cited in Herbert v. Butler, 97 U. S. 319, 320,
and this court there said, by Mr. Justice Bradley : "Although
there may be some evidence in favor of a party, yet if it is insufficient to sustain a verdict, so that one based thereon wou]d
be set aside, the court is not bound to submit the case to the
jury, but may direct them what verdict to render." It is true,
that, in the above cases, the verdict was directed for the
defendant. But where the question, after all the evidence is
in, is one entirely of law, a verdict may, at the trial, be directed
for the plaintiff, and, where the bill of exceptions, as here, sets
forth all the evidence in the case, this court, if concurring with
the court below in its views on the questions of law presented
by the bill of exceptions and the record, will affirm the judgment.
In Bevanm v. UnitedStatem, 13 Wall. 56, a verdict was directed
voL. cxHI-16

242

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

for the United States, in a suit by them on the official bond of
a public officer, and the. ruling was sustained, the evidence for
the plaintiff being all of it documentary, this court saying by
Mr. Justice Strong: "The instruction was, therefore, in accordance with the legal effect of the evidence, and there were no*
disputed facts upon which the jury could pass."
The same rule was applied in Wal&run v. Bahitt,
16 Wall.
517, to the direction of a verdict for the plaintiff, after oral evidence which this court states "was received without objection,
and about which there is no controversy," and on which it says
it bases its decision. That was a suit to recover the value of
goods transferred in fraud of the bankrupt law.
In Hendrick v. Lindsay, 93 U. S. 143, the Circuit Court directed the jury to find for the plaintiffs, in an action on a bond
of indemnity, the plaintiffs' evidence being all of it documentary, and the defendant giving no evidence. This court said,
by Mr. Justice Davis: "There were no disputed facts in this
case for the jury to pass upon. After the plaintiffs had rested
their case, the counsel for the defendant announced that he had
no evidence to offer; and thereupon the court, considering that
the legal effect of the evidence warranted a verdict for the
plaintiffs, told the jury, in an absolute form, to find for them.
This wa& correct practice where there 'was no evidence at all to
contradict or vary the case made by the plaintiffs; and the
only question for review here is, whether or not the court mistook the legal effect of the evidence."
In Artkur v. .Morgan, at this term, 112 U. S. 495, after oral
evidence for the plaintiff, there being no evidence for the defendant, the court below had directed a verdict for the plaintiff for the recovery of excessive duties paid under protest, to
which direction the defendant had excepted, and this court,.
treating the question as one of law, as to the proper rate of
duty, on undisputed facts, affirmed the judgment.
These decisions are controlling on the point.

Judgment aflrmed.

