CAILLOT v. DEETKEN.
Syllabus.
alent. Proutyv.Ruggle, 16 Pet. 336; Gould v. Ree 15 Wall.
187; Rowell v. Zind ay, ante, 97, and cases therein cited.
But counsel for appellee insists that the patent was not intended to cover a-combination, but merely. the forming of the
under side of the pad by the use of a smooth sheet of leather
crimped in order to have its ends turned up without producing
wrinkles.
As ahleadystated, the appellant does not use the crimped
leather as the inner lining of a stuffed pad. He uses the
crimped leather stiffened by a metal plate as a substitute for a
stuffed pad with a crimped leather lining.
There is, therefore, no infringement, unless the patent of the
appellee should be construed to cover simply a piece of leather
crimped to the proper shape, and having its under side smooth
and free from wrinkles, to be used to keep the upper part of the
collar from galling the neck of the horse. If the patent is so
construed it must be held void, for the evidence in the record
is conclusive to show that such a device was made, sold, and
used by many persons years before the date of the appellee's
patent.
The result of these views is that
The decree of the Circuit Court mu8t be rever8ed, and the
cause remanded to that court, with direction8 to dismi8 the
bill.

CAILLOT & Another v. DEETKEN.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
Submitted January12, 1885.-Decided January 2, 1885.

This court can acquire no jurisdiction under a writ of error where the return to
it is made by filing the transcript of the record here after the expiration of
the term of this court next succeeding the filing of the writ in the Circuit
Court.

The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabus.

-Yr.J J

rivner for plaintiffs in error.

.X.. John A. IFright,Xr. John F. Hanna and -Y.
Z. Johnston for defendant in error.

JaMe8

I. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
It has been repeatedly decided by this court that where no
return.has been made to a writ of error by filing the transcript
of the record here, either before or during the term of the court
next succeeding the filing of the writ in the Circuit Court, this
court has, acquired no jurisdiction of the case, and the writ
having then expired, can acquire none under that writ, and it
must, therefore, be dismissed. 7ilWlao8 v. United States, 6
How. 81; Castro v. United State8, 3 Wall. 46; fusiw v.
Cavazos, 6 Wall. 355, 358; Xurdock v. .emphis, 20 Wall.
590, 624.
In the case before us the writ of error was filed in the Circuit
Court in which the record was March 16, 1882, and the tran'script that was returned with it was filed in this court November 28, 1884. Two full terms of the court had passed, therefore,
between the filing of the writ of error in the Circuit Court and
its return with the transcript into this court.
It must, therefore, be
Dismis8edfor want o.f jurisdiction.

CHEONG AII MOY v. UNITED STATES.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR TH1
DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
Submitted January 9. 1885.-Decided January26, 1885.

The court declines to decide a question arising in a case which no longer exists,
in regard to rights which it cannot enforce.

The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

