VOSS v. FISHER.
Opinion of the Court.

VOSS v. FISHER.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF 31ICI.IGA.
Argued January 15, 1585.-Decided January 26, 1885.

The doctrine that the use of one of the elements of a combination does not
infringe a patent for a combination reasserted.
Patent No. 89,646 granted May 4, 1869, to C. J. Fisher, for an improved neckpad for horses was not infringed by the device used by the appellant for the
same purpose.

This was a suit in equity brought by Charles J. Fisher, the
appellee, against Willibald Voss, the appellant, to restrain the
infringement by the latter of letters patent granted to Fisher,
dated May 4, 1869, "for an improved neck-pad for horses."
The answer denied infringement and denied that Fisher was
the first inventor of the patented improvement.
Upon final hearing on the pleadings and evidence the Circuit Court rendered a decree in favor of he complainant, and
the defendant appealed.
.3fr.E. A. TFest and .Afr. L. 1. Bond for appellant.
X.. Edward Taggart for appellee.
MR. JuSTICE WOODS delivered the opinion of the court. He
recited the facts, as above stated, and continued:
Neck-pads for horses, to which the letters-patent relate, were
made of various kinds and used long before application for the
patent was filed. They were attached to the horse-collar at
its upper end immediately below the point where the two arms
of the collar are buckled together. They rested on the neck
of the horse, and their object was to prevent the galling of the
horse's neck by the upper part of the collar. The improvement
in neck-pads covered by the letters patent of the appellee was
described as follows in the specification:

OCTOBER TERM. 1884.

214

Opinion of the Coat.

"This invention relates to a new device for protecting, the
necks of horsesbetween the upper ends of the collar to prevent
galling. For this purpose pieces of leather, cloth, or other
material have heretofore been used, but without the desired
success. Pads could not be made, as their inner faces could
not be kept clear from wrinkles or protuberances, which are
more injurious than the omission of a protecting device.
" My invention consists in producing a pad which may be
attached to the collar, and which is perfectly smooth on the
under side, the leather used on the under side being crimped
in order to obtain the &desiredshape.

.

.

.

[The pad] is so

shaped that it fits a horse's neck between the arins of the collar,
it being thick on top and tapering toward the ends.
The under side of the pad is formed by a sheet of leather,
.

.

.

which is crimped in order to have its ends turned up

without producing wrinkles; the stuffing in the pad is of hay,
or any other suitable material. On the outer side of the pad,
near the ends of the same, are straps

.

.

which are fitted

around the collar . . : to prevent longitudinal displacement of the pad." The claim was as follows: "The neck-pad
having an inner lining of crimped leather, and provided with
straps

.

.

.

to allow its being fastened to the collar as

herein shown and described for the purpose specified."
The thing made and sold by the appellant, which was
charged to be an infringement, of the appellee's patent, was a
single piece of crimped leather having a piece of sheet metal
so shaped as to fit it riveted to its upper side, in order to stiffen
it and preserve its crimped form, and provided with straps to
fasten it tQ the collar.
The specification of appellant's patent describes a stuffed
pad. The drawing by which it is illustrated shows a stuffed
pad, and the certified model of the invention from the Patent
Office, exhibited at the hearing, is a stuffed pad.
It is clear, that if the patent is to be construed as a combination consisting of a stuffed pad, having an inner lining of
crimped leather and straps to fasten the pad to the collar, the
appellant does not infringe, for he does not use one of the elements of the combination, namely, the stuffed pad, nor its equiv-

CAILLOT v. DEETKEN.
Syllabus.
alent. Proutyv.Ruggle, 16 Pet. 336; Gould v. Ree 15 Wall.
187; Rowell v. Zind ay, ante, 97, and cases therein cited.
But counsel for appellee insists that the patent was not intended to cover a-combination, but merely. the forming of the
under side of the pad by the use of a smooth sheet of leather
crimped in order to have its ends turned up without producing
wrinkles.
As ahleadystated, the appellant does not use the crimped
leather as the inner lining of a stuffed pad. He uses the
crimped leather stiffened by a metal plate as a substitute for a
stuffed pad with a crimped leather lining.
There is, therefore, no infringement, unless the patent of the
appellee should be construed to cover simply a piece of leather
crimped to the proper shape, and having its under side smooth
and free from wrinkles, to be used to keep the upper part of the
collar from galling the neck of the horse. If the patent is so
construed it must be held void, for the evidence in the record
is conclusive to show that such a device was made, sold, and
used by many persons years before the date of the appellee's
patent.
The result of these views is that
The decree of the Circuit Court mu8t be rever8ed, and the
cause remanded to that court, with direction8 to dismi8 the
bill.

CAILLOT & Another v. DEETKEN.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
Submitted January12, 1885.-Decided January 2, 1885.

This court can acquire no jurisdiction under a writ of error where the return to
it is made by filing the transcript of the record here after the expiration of
the term of this court next succeeding the filing of the writ in the Circuit
Court.

The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

