OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabus.

arrived at age, there was no one competent to make a demand
against his administrator, within the terms of the statute.
But wu are unable to appreciate the force of this supposed
distinction. The statute in question contains no exception in
favor of claimants under disability, of non-age, or otherwise;
the claim of the complainants against John G. Morgan was
adverse to his administration, although it may have originated
in consequence of a relation of trust; and there is no ground,
that we are able to understand, on which it can be excepted
out of the operation of the statute in question. Their claim
was equally against the adwinistrator of John G. Morgan,
whether the latter be considered as the defaulting partner of
themselves or of their father. Whatever its description, it was
a claim against the estate of John G. Morgan, and for which
his personal representative was in the first instance liable; and
the statute is a bar to every such claim, unless presented within
the time prescribed.
On this ground, the decree of the Circuit Court is
Afflnmd.

CHASE v. CURTIS & Another.
IN ERROR

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE'SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Argued January30, 1885.-Decided March 2, 1885.

The provision in ยง 12 of the act of the legislature of N4w York of February
17,1848, as amended June 7,1875, whereby trustees of corporations formed
for manufacturing, mining, mechanical, or chemical purposes are made
liable for debts of the company on failure to file the reports of capital

and of debts required by that section, is penal in its character, and must
be construed with strictness as against those sought to be subjected to its
liabilities.
In a suit under the provisions of that act, as amended, to recover of the trustees
of such corporation the amount of a judgment against the corporation, the
judgment roll is not competent evidence to establish a debt due from the
corporation to the plaintiff.
A claim in tort against a corporation formed inder that act, as amended, is

CHASE v. CURTIS.
Statement of Facts.
not a debt of the company for which the trustees may become liable jointly
and severally under the provisions of the amended 12.
In a proceeding to enforce a liability created by a state statute, the courts of
the United States give tb a judgment of a state court the same effect,
either as evidence, or as cause of action, which is given to it in like proceedings in the courts of the state whose laws are invoked in the enforcement.

The complaint in this action, after alleging that the plaintiff (who is plaintiff in error) was a citizen of Pennsylvania,
and the defendants citizens of New York, proceeded as follows:
"1Second.That at the times hereinafter mentioned the de.
fendants were trustees of the Union Petroleum Company of
New York.
"Third. That the said company is, and at the times hereinafter mentioned was, a corporation organized pursuant to an
act of the legislature of the State of New York, entitled ' An
Act to authorize the formation of corporations for manufacturing, mining, mechanical, or chemical purposes,' passed on the
17th day of February, 1848, and the amendments thereto, its
principal place of business being in the city of New.York.
"_Fourth. That the said plaintiffs brought their plea of trespass on the case against the said Union Petroleum Company
of New York in the Court of Common Pleas for the county of
Venango, in the State of Pennsylvania, in which the said Union
Petroleum Company duly appeared, and that the said action
was thereafter and on or about the 9th day of September, 1873,
on the petition of the said Union Petroleum Company, verified
by the affidavit of Abijah Curtis, one of the defendants above
named, removed to the United States Circuit Court for the
Western District of Pennsylvania. And that on the 30th day
of July, 1874, and before the time for filing the annual report
hereinafter mentioned, the above-named plaintiffs duly recovered a judgment in the said action against the said Union Petroleum Company of New York in the Circuit Court of the
United States in and for the Western District of Pennsylvania,
by the judgment and 6onsideration of said court having jurisdiction therein, and of the said Union and Petroleum Company of New York, for forty thousand five hundred dollars

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statemenut of Facts.

($40,500.00) damages, and three hundred and twenty-eight
dollars and ninety-seven cents ($328.97) costs, which judgment
-was duly given, and' still remains in full force and effect, not
satisfied or annulled, and no part thereof has been paid.
"Fifth. That the said Union Petroleum Company of iNew
York did not within twenty (20) days from the first day of
January, 1875, make and publish a. report as required by law
in such case made and provided, signed'by its president and a
majority of its trustges, and verified by the oaths of the president or secretary thereof, and did not file the same in the office'
of the clerk of the county where the business of the company
was carried on, to wit, the county of New York; nor have
they made, published, signed, verified, or filed any such report
whatsoever as by law required, but have wholly failed so to do.
"W1herefore the plaintiffs demand judgment against the
above-named defendants in the sum of $40,828.97, with interest on $40,500.00 from the 30th day of July, 1874, and on
$328.97 from the 3d day of October, 1874, besides the costs,
and disbursements of this action."
To this complaint the defendants severally demurred, on the
ground that it did not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action. The demurrer was sustained, and judgment ren#teredin'favor of the defendants, dismissing the complaint, to
reverse which this writ of error was prosecuted.
The statute on which the action was founded is as follows:
" SEcrioN 1. The twelfth section of the 'Act to authorize the

formation of corporations for manufacturing, mining, mechanical, or chemical purposes,' passed February 17, 1848, as said
section was amended by chapter 657 of the laws of 1871, is
hereby further amended, so that section 12 shall read as
follows:
" ยง 12. Every such company shall, within twenty days from
the first day of January, if a year from the time of the.filing
of the certificate of incorporation shall then have expired, and,
if so long a time shall not have expired, then, within twenty
days from the first day of January in each year after the expiration of a year from the time of filing such certificate, make
a report which shall be published in some newspaper published

CHASE v. CURTIS.

5

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

in the town, city, or village, or if there be no newspaper published in said town, city, or village, then in some newspaper
published nearest the place where the business of the company
is carried on, which shall state the amount of, capital, and of
the proportion actually paid in, and the-amount of its existing
debts, which report shall be signed by the president and a
majority of the trustees, and shall be verified by the oath of
the president or secretary of said company, and filed in the
office of the clerk of the county where the business of .the company shall be carried on, and if any of said companies shall fail
so to do, all the trustees of the company shall be jointly and
severally liable for all the debti of the company then existing,
and for all that shall be contracted before such report shall be
made; but whenever under this sec'fion a judgment shall be
recovered against a trustee severally, all the trustees of the
company shall contribute a ratable share of the 'amount .paid
by spch trustee on such judgment, .and such trustee shall have
a right of action against his co-trustees, jointly or severally, to
recover from them their proportion of the amount so paid on
such judgment; provided that nothing in this act contained
shall affect any action now pending." Laws of New York,
1875, ch. 510, passed June 7, 1875.
fr. George A. Black (Xr. Hfenry T &ud&r was with him)
for plaintiff in error.-The distinctions made in certain conflicting cases between judgments and contracts can have no bearing
here. O'Brien v. Young, 95 N. Y. 428; Taylor v. Root, 4:
Keyes, 335, 344. The case of MZler v. Wldte, on which the
decision below was based, is reported in 57 Barb. 508; 59
Barb. 443, and 50 N. Y. 137. It shows this peculiarity, that
the debt for which the trustees became liable was contracted
prior to the default, and only put in judgment after the default.
This is obvious from the report of the case in 59 Barb. 435,
wvhere the complaint alleged that on. the first of January, 1865,
the company was indebted, that the judgment was recbvered
on this indebtedness in June, 1866, and that no report was filed
in January of 1865, '66, '67 or '68. In its opinion the Court of
Appeals, 50 N. Y. 137, says: "The right of action in this case

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

arose, if ever, at the expiration of twenty days from the first
day of January, 1865; at that time the judgment had no existence. It was not recovered until June, 1866. It is true that
the plaintiffs aver defaults in the company in making said
reports for the years 1866, 1867 and 1868, but no evidence was
given of any default except in January, 1865.

.

.

The

question involved in this case is not free from doubt or difficulty.

.

.

.

I think the principles of the law are better

sustained by holding this judgment not evidence against these
defendants, that they are neither parties nor privies to it, and
that they should not be bound by it." The courts of New
York have refused to follow this case except within the strict
limits of the facts presented by it. Lewis v. Amstrong, 8
Abbott N. 0. 385. The judgment is evidence in this action
of the debt of the company ex necevsitate. The action was for
trespass on the case for a tort (entering upon and taking oil
from the lands of the plaintiff), which was unliquidated except
by the verdict, which possibly contained an allowance in the
nature of punitive damages. It was impossible of exact computation, containing allowances for costs provable in no other
way. It would be absurd, unreasonable and productive of uncertainty and confusion to require the submission to another
jury of the facts which led to this verdict, for if they found a
less amount it is palpable that a part only of the debt of the
company would be recovered against these defendants who are
liable f6r all the debts of the company. If they gave a larger
verdict these defendants would be the first to complain. Under
the statute they are severally as well as jointly liable. Each
one could be sued apart from the others, and if one trustee is
sued alone, all the trustees shall contribute a ratable share of
the amount paid on such judgment. If in each suit against
each trustee the whole evidence of the original claim had to be
gone into and separate verdicts rendered, which might be for
very dissimilar amounts, the contribution would become a
matter more involved than the original claim. As the theory
on which the judgment is made conclusive, is that, as the
parties to it have had their day in court and have exhausted
their proofs, they are thereby estopped from denying its

CHASE v. CURTIS.
Opinion of the Court.

validity. Whatever may be the ruling of the State courts in
respect to admissions of evidence, they are not binding upon
the United States courts, because such decisions do not present
a case of statutory construction. .AcNieZ v. Holbrook, 12 Pet.
84; [Town of Fenice v. .Xrurdock,92 U. S. 494. The view that
a judgment is evidence against the trustee of a liability of the
corporation is supported by numerous very respectable authorities in the State of New York. ,Ske v. Bloom, 20 Johns. 668,
684; .$o88 v. X7kcCullough, 7 Barb. 279; . C. 5 Hill, 131; -o88
v..Averell, 10 N. Y. 449; Belrmont v. Coleman, 1 Bosw. 188;
S. C. 21 N. Y. 96. And in other States and England: Utley
v. Tool Co., 11 Gray, 139; Farnum v. Ballard Vale ifachine
Shop, 12 Cush. 507; Dauchy v. Brown, 24 Vt. 197; .Milliken
v. Jkitehouee, 49 Maine, 527; Core v. Sanford, 14 Iowa, 285;
Wilon v. Pittqurgh,&c., Coal Co., 43 Penn. St. 42A; GaekilZ
v. Dudley, 6 Met. 546; Green v. Nixon, 23 Beav. 530, 538;
Bank of Auetralia v. Nia8, 4 Eng. Law & Eq. 252; Thompson's Liability of Stockholders, ยง 329 et seg.

.Mr. Gro&vcnor P. Lowuy for defendants in error.
MR. JusTicE MTT HEWS delivered the opinion of the court.
He recited the facts-as above stated, and continued:
It is the well settled rule of decision, established by the
Court of Appeals of New York in numerous cases, that this
section of the statute, to enforce which the present action was
brought, is penal in its character, and must be construed with
strictness as against those sought to be subjected to its liabilities.
.- erckant' Bank v. Bligs, 35 -N. Y. 412; Wles v. Suydam,
64 N. Y. 173; Baaderly v. Barber, 65 N. Y. 252; nox v.
Baldwin, 80 N. Y. 610; 'eeder v. Baker, 83 N. Y. 156; Pier
v. George, 86 N. Y. 613; Stoke8 v. Stiekfey, 96 N. Y. 323.
In the case last cited the action authorized by it was held to
be ex delicto, and that it did not *surviveas against the personal
representative of a trustee sought to 'be charged.
In Bruce v. Pla, 80 N. Y. 379, it was said:
"It is settled, by repeated decisions applicable to this case,
that the statute in question (Laws of 1848, ch. 40, ยง 12) is

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

penal, and not to be extended by construction; that in an
action to enforce a liability thereby created, nothing can be
presumed against the defendants, but that every fact necessary
to establish their liability must beF affirmatively proved," citing
Garri8onv. Hrowe, 17 N. Y. 458; -Pllerv. White, 50 N. Y. 137;
Whitney Ar8 Co. v. Barlow, 63 N. Y. 62.
This rule of construction in reference to this and similar
statutory provisions has been heretofore adopted and applied
by this court.. Steam Engine Co. v. Hubb5ard, 101 U. S. 188;
Flashv. Corn, 109'U. S. 371.
In the case last mentioned, this court, following the Court of
Appeals of New York in the case of Wiles v. Suydam, 64 N. Y.
173, showed the distinction between the liability of stockholders
for the debts of the corporation, under a section of the same
act, making them severally individually liable for the debts
and contracts of the company to an amount equal to the
amount of stock held by them respectively, until the whole
amount of the capital stock fixed and limited by the company
has been paid in, and the liability imposed upon 'the trustees
by the section now under discussion.' It was held that the former was a liability ex contractu, enforceable beyond .the jurisdiction of the State, and that the statute should be construed
liberally in furtherance of the remedy; that the latter was for
the enforcement of a penalty, and subject to all the rules applicable to actions upon statutes of that description.
The distinction is illustrated and enforced in Hastings v.
Drew, 76 N. Y. 9, and Stephens v. Fox, 83 N. Y. 313.
The precise question involved here was decided by the Court
of Appeals of New York in the case of Miller v. White, 50 N.
Y. 137. In that case the complaint set forth the recovery of a
judgment against the company, but not the original cause of
action against it, on which the judgment was founded. The
defendant moved for a dismissal on this ground, which was
refused, and judgment was rendered in favor of the plaintiff
on the production in evidence of the judgment roll. Tiis was
held to be erroneous on the ground that the judgment wai not,
competent as evidence of any debt due from the corporation,
and that no action could be maintained thereon against the

CHASE v. CURTIS.
Opinion of the Court.

trustees under this section of the act. Judge Peckham,
delivering the unanfinous opinion of the court, said:
"It will be perceived that this is a highly penal act, extremely rigorous in its provisions. It is absolute that the
trustees shall be liable for' al] the debts of the company, if the
report be not made, no matter by whose default. If one of the
trustees did all in his power to have it made, yet if the president, or a sufficient number of his co-trustees to constitute a
majority, declined to sign it, or if the piesident and secretary
declined to verify it by oath, the faithful trustee seems to be
absolutely liable as well asthose who refuse to do their duty."
It was accordingly held, "that, as against these defendants,
the judgment did not legalyexist, as they were neither parties
nor privies to it.

.

.

It is not a judgment as to these

defendants; no action could be maintained thereon against
them.

.

. Nor is the judgment primafacie evidence of

the debt as against these defendants."
This doctrine was repeated and reaffirmed by the -same court
in Whitney Aram Co. v. Barlow, 63 N. Y. 62-72. In that case
the court said: "The debt must be proved by evidence competent against the defendants. The facts upon which the debt is
founded must be proved. The naked admissions of the corporation or judgment against the corporation are not evidence
against the trustees. They are re8 inter alio8 acta; but, when
facts axe proved which would establish the existence of a debt
against the corporation, the liability of thfe trustees for the
debt follows upon the proof of the other facts upon which the
liability is made by statute to depend."
The case of Miller v. White, ubi "upra,has iiever been overruled, nor questioned by the New York Court of Appeals. On
the contrary, it has been repeatedly and expressly cited and
approved, and either followed or distinguished from the case
.under decision, in the following cases: Rorke v. Thomas, 56
N. Y. 559-565; Hating v. Drew, '76 N. Y. 9-15; AteyTne v.
Fox, 83 N. Y. 313-317; _nox v. Baldwin, 80 N. Y. 610-613;
Bruce v. Platt,80 N. Y. 379-381.
It is attempted, however, in argument to distinguish the
present case from that of Xirler v. White, wUi 8upra, upon the

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

facts, so as to except this from the rule of that decision.

In

the case of -Millerv. WAite, u i 8upra, the judgment sued on
was not recovered until after the alleged default on the part of
the defendants, as trustees, in filing their report, whereas in
the present case the default is alleged to have occurred after
the recovery of the judgment sued on. But in Miller v. Ikite,
the plaintiffs did aver- defaults occurring after the rendition of
the judgment, although none were proved except'one occurring
before it was recovered; and the court said (50 N. Y. 140):
"The right of action in this case arose, if ever, at the expiration of the twenty days from the first day of January, 1865.
At that time the judgment had no existence. It was not recovered until June, 1866." But this language plainly shows,
that the very point of the decision was, that no right of action
could arise upon the judgment itself, but upon the debt alone,
on which the judgment was founded, and as to this, it is, as we
have already seen from other parts of the opinion, expressly
declared, that the judgment was, as against the trustees, evidence, neither conclusive norprimafacie, of the existence of a
debt due from the corporation, for the payment of which they
could be charged.
Upon this point, it is further said in argument, that it is reduced to a question of evidence, and that the rules of evidence,
enforced in the courts of a State do not necessarily govern
courts of the United States, although sitting in the same State.
However this may be in other cases, or where the laws of the
United States prescribe rules of evidence for their own tribunals, it is not true that the courts of the United States, in a
special statutory proceeding, would give to a judgment of a
State court any other or greater effect, either as a matter of evidence, or as ground of action, than must be lawfully given to it
in the courts of the State, whose laws are invoked to enforce it.
It is, however, further urged upon us in argument that in
cases lik the present, which is shown by the record and admitted to be founded on an action on the case for a tbrt, the
judgment against the corporation must be evidence of the debt
ex neces8eiate. On this head the language of counsel in their
printed argument is as follows:

I CHASE v. CURTIS.
Opinion of the Court.

-

"The action was for trespass on the case, .for a tort (entering
upon and taking oils from the lands of the plaintiff), which
was unliquidated except by the verdict which possibly contained an allowance in the nature of punitive damages. It was
impossible of exact computation, containing allowances for
costs provable in no other way.. It would be absurd, unreasonable, and productive of uncertainty and confusion, to require
the submission to another jury of the facts which led to this
verdict, for if they found a less amount it.is palpable that a
part only of the debt of the company would be recovered
against these defendants, who axe liable for all the debts of the
company. If they gave a larger verdict these defendants
would be the first to complain. Under the statute they are
severally as well as jointly liable. Each one could be sued
aparxt from the others, and if one trustee is sued alone all the
trustees shall contribute a ratable share of the amount paid on
such judgment. If in each suit against each trustee the whole
evidence of the original claim had to be gone into and separate
verdicts rendered, which might be for,very dissimilar amounts,
the contribution would become a matter more involved than
the original claim. As the theory on wthich the judgment is
made conclusive is, that, as the parties to it have had their day
in court and have exhausted their proofs, they are thereby estopped from denying its validity."
But if this proves anything it proves too much, and instead
of showing the thing to be proved that the judgment is conclusive evidence of a debt, it establishes, on the contrary, that a
liability on the part of the corporation for a tort, though afterwards reduced to judgment against it, is not a debt of the corporation, even when in judgment, within the meaning of the
statute imposing upon the trustees the penalty sought to be enforced in this action for not making and publishing an annual
report showing, among otler things, the amount of its existing
debts. For, keeping in view the statement now urged by
counsel, of the impossibility, in advance of liquidation by the
verdict of a jury, of even approximately, much less accurately,
stating the amount of such a liability, can it be supposed that
the duty to do so is devolved upon the trustees, within either

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court

the letter or spirit of this statute, under penalty of becoming
personally liable to pay whatever judgment may be thereafter
rendered on account thereof againstthe corporation? Surely
not. Such claims are not within the contemplation of the act.
The mischief to be prevented by its requirements has no relation to liabilities of that description. The creditors to be protected are those only who become such by voluntary transactions, in reference to which, for their benefit, the information
becomes important as to the debts of the company.
The precise point does not appear to have arisen under this
act, so as to have become the subject of a decision by the New
York Court of Appeals. But it seems to be virtually decided
-inifeacock v. Sherman, 14 Wend. 58. That was an action on
the case for the recovery of damages against the stockholders
of a corporation, occasioned by not keeping in repair a bridge,
the liability arising, as it was alleged, upon the eighth section
of the act incorporating the Buffalo Hydraulic Association
(Stat. of 1827, N. Y., p. 45), which was as f6llows:
"That the stockholders of the said corporation shall beholden
jointly and severally to the nominal amount of their stock for
the payment of all debts contracted by the said corporation or
by their agents; and any person or persons, having any demand against the said corporation, may sile any stockholder or
stockholders in any court having p6gnizance thereof, and -"
cover the same with costs; provided that no stockholder shai"
be obliged to pay more in the whole than the amount of the
stock he may hold in the said company at the time the debt
accrued." Mr. Justice Nelson, delivering the opinion of the,
court, said: "The term demand is undoubtedly broad enough,
if it stood alone, to embrace the claim of the plaintiff.
We must, however, look at the whole section and the connection in which it stands, in order to fix its meaning in.this case.
The stockholders, in the first place,.are maae..jointly and severally holden for the payment of all debts eontracted by the
corporation or by their agents. The liapbiity is h&e delard;
it is new and unknown to the common law aud is in. terms
limited to demands ex contractu. The residue-of tJ section
was not intended to extend the liability thus declked, baiis in

. CHASE v. CURTIS.
Opinion of the Court.

furtherance of the remedy.
.
But the proviso to the
section is conclusive upon the point. Any person having a demand against the corporation is authorized to sue any stockholder in any court, &c., ' provided that no stockholder shall be
obliged to pay more in the whole than the amount of the stock
he may hold in said company at the time the debt accrued ;
thereby clearly qualifying the enlarged meaning of the word
demand, and showing satisfactorily that it was used by the
legislature to denote a demand arising upon contract. Damage
arising upon tort is not a debt accrued, within any reasonable
construction of that term. It is apparent, as well from a view
of the whole section as from -an analysis of its parts, that the
intent of the framers of it was only to make the stockholders
individually responsible for the debts of the company."
This reasoning and conclusion, as applied to the present case,
is not weakened, but rather strengthened, by the language cited
and relied on by counsel in support of his proposition, from the
opinion of Mr. Justice Story in Carver v. The Braintree 3fa,,afacturingCo., 2 Story, 432, 448, construing a Massachusetts
statute enacting that "every person who shall become a member of any manufacturing corporation shall be liable in his individual capacity for all debts contracted during the time of his
continuing a member of such corporation." He there admits
that debts, in the strict sense of the term, include only contracts
of the party for the payment of money and nothing else; but,
feeling required to construe the statute broadly as a remedial
statute, he gave to the word "debts" a meaning, not unusual,
as equivalent "to dues," and to the word " contracted," ameaning, which, though more remote, he said, was still legitimate
as equivalent to "incurred," so that the phrase "debts contracted," in that sense, would be equivalent to ' dues owing"
or "liabilities incurred;" and would therefore cover unliquidated claims arising from torts.
But, as we have already seen, the statute involved in this
discussion is not a remedial statute, to be broadly and liberally
construed; but is a penal statute with provisions of a highly
rigorous nature, to be construed most favorably for those
sought to be charged under it, and with strictness against their

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

alleged liability. Under such a rule of construction its language
is limited, by its own terms, to a liability, on the part of the
trustees, to debts of the corporation existing and arising ex
contractu.
It is finally insisted that a judgment against the corporation, although founded upon a tort, becomes '2p8ofadoa debt
by contract, being a contract of record, or a specialty in the
nature of a contract.
But we have already seen that the settled course of decision
in the New York Court of Appeals rejects the judgment against
the corporation as either evidence or ground of liability against
the trustees, and founds the latter upon the obligation of the
corporation on which the judgment itself rests. And it was
decided by this court, in the case of Iouisianav. New Orleanq,
109 U. S. 285, that a liability for a tort,, created by statute,
although reduced to judgment by a recovery for the damages
suffered, did not thereby become a debt by contract, in the
sense of the Constitution of the United States, forbidding
State legislation impairing its obligation, for the reason that
"the term ' contract' is used in the Constitution in its ordinary
sense as signifying the agreement of two or more minds, for
considerations proceeding from one to the other, to do or not
to do certain acts. Mutual assent to its terms is of its very
essence."
The same definition applies in. the present instance, and excludes the liability of the defendants, as trustees of the corporation, for its torts, although reduced to judgment.
We find no error in the judgment of the Circuit Court, and
Aff rWd.
it is accordingly

