OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

LOONEY v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAI:S.
Submitted January 9, 1885.-Decided January 23. 1885.

A creditor who receives from his debtor a certificatein writing, not negotiable,
of the amount of his debt, and sells the certificate to a third person for
value less than its nominal amount, thereby authorizes the purchaser to receive the amount from the debtor, and cannot, after the debtor has paid it
to the purchaser, maintain any action against the debtor.
A creditor who receives from his debtor a negotiable instrument of the debtor
for the amount of his debt, and sells it for its market value to a third person, cannot sue the debtor on the original debt.

This suit, as appeared by the facts found by the Cout4 of
Claims, was upon a contract in writing made September 11,
1t872, between the petitioner and the Board of Public Works of
the District of Columbia, by which he agreed to furnish materials and labor, and in a good and substantial manner to grade
and gravel Fourteenth Street East between B Street South and
Boundary in the City of Washington, at prices specified, and
among other things agreed t6 punctually pay in cash the workmen employed by him; and the Board of Public Works agreed
to pay him in lawful money of the United States the amount
which might be found to be due to him from time to time according to the contract.
He performed his part of the contract according to its terms.
Upon measurements made and accounts stated during the progress and at the completion of the work, there appeared to be
due to him $27,364.75 (which by a mistake of addition, unknown to either party, was $500 too much), for which he received certificates of the auditor of the Board of Public Works,
issued in accordance with the usual course of business as conducted by that board with its creditors, in different sums and
in the following form:
"No. 2179.

Office of Auditor, Board of Public Works,
Washington, D. C., July 11,1873.
"I hereby certify that I have this day audited and allowed

LOONEY v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Statement of Facts.

the account of Dennis Looney for work on 14th street East,
from B street South to Boundary, amounting to. one thousand
dollars.
"$1000.

J. C. LAY,

Auditor."

The Court of Claims, in addition" to the facts above stated,
found the following facts:
"The certificates so received by the claimant, amounting in
all to $27.364.75, were disposed of by him as follows: He collected of the board in cash $744. One certificate of $1,000
was indotsed and sold by him at its market value, sixty-five
3ents on a dollar, and was redeemed by the board from his assignee at its face value in payment of special taxes due to the
District. Three certificates (less cash received), of the face
value of $9,100, he exchanged at par for 'sewer certificates,' so
called, bearing interest at eight per cent. per annum, and other
interest-bearing securities of the District of Columbia, all payable on time. The interest-bearing securities he sold at their
market value, sixty-five cents on a dollar. Five certificates, of
the face value of $16,520.75, he indorsed and sold at about
their market value, seventy cents on a dollar, and they were
funded by his assignee into District of Columbia three-sixty-,
five bonds issued under the act of June 20, 1874, ch. 337, 18
Stat. 116.
"Before selling his interest-bearing securities, for which he
had exchanged his auditor's certificates, the claimant asked the
treasurer what they were worth, and where he could sell them
at par, and the treasurer replied, ' I do not know where you can
get par for them; do as others are doing, and sell them the
best way that you can.'"
Upon the foregoing findings of fact the Court of Claims decided as conclusions of law as follows: " 1. The claimant has
no cause of action, and is not entitled to recover on the demands
sued upon. 2. The defendant is entitled to recover $500 from
the claimant, as set up in the counterclaim, for overpayment
made through an errot in adding the account, upon a final settlemeiit of which he was overpaid that sum." 19 C. Cl.230.

OCTOBER. TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

Judgment was rendered accordingly, and the claimant appealed
to this court.

Mr.Evp ffunton and Mr. V. B. Edwards for appellant.-It is found as a fact that the claimant was, by the terms of his
contract, to be paid in lawful money of the United States, and
also that he was paid in certificates worth sixty-five cents on the
dollar, which this courf has decided in Cowdrey v. Vandenburgh,
101 U. S. 572, to be non-negotiable. He is therefore entitled to
recover, and his measure of damages is the difference between
the market value of the certificates and lawful money of the
United States at the date the certificates were received by him,
and interest thereon to date of judgment.
ernmphis v. Brown,
20 Wall. 289.
.r. Solicitor-Generaland MAr. John C. Fay for appellee.
M_. JusTicE GRAY delivered the opinion of the court. He
recited the facts as above stated, and continued:
The nature and history of the auditor's certificates, and of
the so-called sewer certifi6ates, and other securities issued by
the District of Columbia, as well as the legislation of Congress
relating to them, have been fully stated in opinions delivered
-by the Court of Claims in other cases, and need not be recapitulated. See .Fendallv. District of CoZumbia, 16 C. C. 106;
Adams v. Same, 17 C. C. 351 ; Nforgan v. Same, 19 C. CL 156.
It is enough for the purposes of this case to observe that the
sewer certificates and other- interest-bearing securities of the
District were negotiable instruments; and that the auditor's
certificates were not negotiable, but were merely evidence of
the debt of the District to the claimant under its contract
with him.
If he had kept the auditor's certificates, he could doubtless
have recovered against the District the full amount of the debt
of which they were the evidence.
ut the facts found show that he has so dealt with these certificates as to prevent him from maintaining this suit. The amount
of some of the certificates he has been paid by the District in

NASHVILLE, &c., RAILWAY CO. v. UNITED STATES. 261
Syllabus.

money. Others of the certificates he has sold and assigned for
value, and thereby transferred the equitable title in them to
the assignee, and authorized him to receive payment of their
amount from the District ; and the payment of that amount in
full by the District to the assignee is a discharge of so much of
its debt to the claimant. Cowdrey v. Vandenburgh, 101 U. S.
572; .Fows v. _owell Savivng Bank, 111 Mass. 285. The remaining certificates he has exchanged with the District for an
equal amount of its negotiable securities, payable on time with
interest, and he has since sold those securities for their value in
the market. The District is liable to the purchaser, either upon
those securities themselves, or upon the other bonds since taken
by him instead of some of them, and cannot be also held liable
to the original creditor for the sameamount or any part thereof.
Harri8 v. Johnston, 3 Cranch, 311; Emblin v. Dartnell,1 D.
& L. 591.
The conversation, which is found to have taken place between
the treasurer of the District and the claimant before he sold the
negoirable securities, has no tendency to prove any authority
or any intention of the treasurer to make a new or different
contract in behalf of the District.
Judgment afirmed.

NASHVILLE, CHATTANOOGA & ST. LOUIS RAILWAY COMPAN-Y v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Submitted Jaxuuary 9, 185.-DecIded January 26, 1883.

A decree in equity, by consent of parties, and upon a compromise between
them, is a bar to a subsequent suit upon a claim therein set forth as among
the matters compromised and settled, although not in fact litigated in the
suit in which the decree was rendered.
A decree in a suit in equity by the United States against a railroad corporation
in Tennessee, appearing upon its face to have been by consent of parties,
and confirming a compromise of all claims between them before June 1,
1871, including any claim of the corporation against the United States

