OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

DAVISON & Another v. VON LINGEN & Others.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF MARYLA2ND.
Argued Decemlier 12, 1884.-Decided January 5,18M

A stipulation in the charter-party of a steamer, that she is "now sailed, or
about to sail, from Benizaf, with cargo, for Philadelphia," is a stipulation
that she has her cargo on board and-is ready to sail
A charter-party with the above stipulation was made on the 1st of August, in
Philadelphia.
The steamer was at Benizaf, in Morocco, only t- zeelevenths loaded, and did not sail for Philadelphia till August 7, and left
Gibraltar August 9. Before signing the charter-party, the charterers
asked to have in it a guaranty that the steamer would reach Philadelphia
in time to load a cargo for Europe in August, but this was refused. They
declined to have inserted the words "sailed from, or loading at Benizaf."
On lear'ning when the steamer left Gibraltar, they proceeded to look for
another vessel. The unloading of the steamer at Philadelphia was completed September 7, but the charterers repudiated the contract: Held,
(1.) The tipulation was a warranty or a condition precedent, and not a mere
representation;
(2.) Time and the situation of the vessel were material and essential parts of
the contract;
(3.) The charterers had a right to repudiate the contract, and to recover from
the owners of the steamer the increased cost of employing another vessel.

The facts which make the case are stafddin the opinion of
the court.
Xr. A. Stirling, -Tr., for appellants. submitted on his byief.
.r. T. Wzall8 Blakidoe
him) for appellees.

(Xr. John H. Xhomas was with

delivered the opinion of the court.
On the 1st of August, 1879, a charter-party was entered into
between the owners of the steamship Whickham and the firm
of A. Schumacher & Co., composed of George A.-Von Lingen,
Carl A. Von Lingen, and William G. Atkinson, of which.the
parts material to this case are as follows MR. JUSTICE BLATCHFORD

DAVISON v. VON LINGEN.
Opinion of the Court.

"Grain.CharterParty,,

-

Steamer.

PHILmADELPHiA,

Aug. 18t,

1879.

It is this day mutually agreed between T. H. Davison, Esq.,
owner of the Br. steamship IWhickham,' of London, built
1876, at Newcastle, of 1124 net tons register or thereabouts,
classed 100 A 1 in Br. Lloyds, now sailed or about to sail from
Benizaf with cargo for Phila., and Mess. A. Schumacher & Co.:
That the said steamship, being tight, staunch, and strong, and
in every way fitted for the voyage, with liberty to take outward cargo to Phila. for owners' benefit, shall, with'all convenient speed, sail and proceed to Philada. or Balto., at charterers'
option, after discharge of inward cargo at Phila., or as near
thereunto as she may safely get', and there load afloat from sai.I
charterers, or their agents, a full and complete cargo of grain,
d. other lawful merchandise, excluding petroleum or'its products. Vessel to load under inspection of either American or
British Lloyd's surveyors, at her expense, and to comply with
their rules. The cargo to be brought to and taken from, alongside at merchants' risk and expense, not exceeding what she
can reasonably stow and carry over and above-her cabin, tackle,
apparel, provisions, and furniture, and, being so loaded, shall
therewith proceed to Queenstown, Falmouth, or Plymouth, for
orders to dis~harge at a safe port in the United Kingdom, or
on the continent between Bordeaux and Hamburg,. both included, (Rouen excluded,) also holland excluded, or as, near
thereunto as she may safely get, and deliver the same, always
afloat, oi being paid freight as follows: six shillings and three
pence sterling per qu arter of 480 lbs. delivered, of wheat or
maize, other grain or stowage goods to pay in full and fair proportion thereto as customary at loading- port; ten per cent.
extra if discharged on the continent as ordered from port of
call in the United Kingdom as above; if ordered fo a direct
port of discharge on the continent as above, on signing bills of
lading, the rate to be the same as to the United Kingdom for
orders. In full of port charges and pilotages (the act of God,
restraints of princes and rulers, the dangers of the seas and navigation, accidents to boilers, machinery, eta., always excepted),

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

freight being paid on unloading and. right delivery of the
cargo, in cash, without discount or allowance. . . . Fifteen
(15) running days, (if the vessel be not sooner dispatched,) commencing when vessel is all ready and prepared to receive cargo
and written notice thereof given to charterers, to be allowed
for loading and discharging vessel, and, if longer detained,
charterers to pay demurrage at the rate of forty (.40) pounds
British sterling, or its equivalent, per day.
GEO. BI.AssE,

H. L. GREGG & CO.
Witness to the signature of
By cable authority from T. H. Davison.
A.

ALBEnT,

Witness to the signature of

A. SCHTau'ACHER & Co."

On the 10th of September, 1879, the charterers filed. a libel
i:.ersonam,in Admiralty,.in the District Court of the United
States for the District of Maryland, against thewners of the
Whickham, to recover 92,000 damages for a breach of the
charter-party. The libel.sets forth a copy of the charter-party,
as Exhibit A, and avers, that, oh the 1st of August, 1879, the
libellants, "kaving previotisly made a contract, which required
them to ship during that month a cargo of grain to Europe,
and requiring a vessel for that purpose, communicated these
facts" to the agents of the respondents, and the charter-party
was made ;.:.that the vessel had not sailed from Benizaf at the
time of the execution of the cfiarter-party, and was not then
about to sail therefrom; that, by reason of such breach of the
contract and warranty, and the delay in the arrival of the vessel at Philadelphia, arising therefrom, the libellants were not
afforded an opportunity of loading the vessel with grain, either
in Philadelphia. ,or Baltimore, during the month of August,
1879, and she did not in fact arrive in-Balti'nore u~iail after the
expiration of that month, nor did she arrive in Philadelphia in
time to discharge her inward cargo and load with grain during
that month; that the respondents did not notify the libellants
of. the arrival of the vessel in, and her readiness to receive
cargo at, Philadelphia; and that,.in consequence thereof, the

DAVISON v. VON LINGEN.
Opinion of the Court.

libellants were compelled, at higher rates of freight, to charter
another vessel for that purpose.
The respondents filed an answer, on the 1st of December,
1879, alleging that, at the time the charter-party was executed,
the vessel was about to sail from Benizaf, within the meaning
of its language; that she did, with all convenient speed, sail
and proceed to Philadelphia, and there, without delay, discharge her inward cargo, and, as soon as discharged, proceed
without delay to Baltimore, and was, without delay, tendered
to the libellants to load according to the charter-party, and
was refused by the libellants, for the sole cause, as alleged by
them, that the respondents had broken the charter-party, because the vessel was not at Benizaf, about to sail, on the 1st of
August, 1879; and that the libellants were aware of her arrival in Philadelphia, and of the time she finished the discharge
of her inward cargo. The fact of the prior contract by 'the
%libellants to ship grain to Europe, and of the communication
of knowledge thereof to the agents of the respondents, is put
in issue. The answer also alleges, that it is not material or
competent to prove the existence of such prior contract or
knowledge of it by the respondents, or the inability of the
libellants to fulfil it, or the chartering of another vessel.
On the same day, the owners of the vessel filed a cross-libel
in. ersonarm, in Admiralty, in the same court, against the
charterers, setting forth the charter-party, and alleging, that
the vessel, at its date, was about to sail from Benizaf; that she
did, in pursuance of the charter-party, proceed, with all convenient speed, to Philadelphia, with inward cargo, and, being
discharged thereof, did, in accordance with the charter-party,
proceed to Baltimore, and was ready to receive cargo from the
charterers, of which written .notice was given to them, but
they, without cause, refused to receive and load the vessel, and
repudiated the charter-party, on the sole ground, as by them
alleged, that the vessel was not, on August 1, about to sail
from Benizaf; and that the vessel, as soon as possible after such
refusal, was re-chartered for a voyage from New York to Europe,
at a freight less by $1,912.58, and with an increase of expense
of $1,000 and more. The cross-libel claims $3,000 damages.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

The answer to the cross-libel, filed in January, 1880, avers
that the vessel had not sailed, and vas not about to sail, from
Benizaf, on the 1st of August, 1879, but, on the contrary, had
not her cargo on board, and did not complete the loading of it
till the evening of Aigust 7, and did not sail from Benizaf
till the evening of August 8; that, when she sailed from
Benizaf, she was not provided, and in every way fitted, for the
voyage, and did not proceed to Philadelphia or Baltimore with
all convenient speed, but sailed without a supply of coal for
the voyage, and stopped at Gibraltar to obtain a proper supply; tuat the charterers received no written notice of the v.essel's arrival and readiness to receive cargo from them at Philadelphia; that she did not arrive in Philadelphia or Baltimore,
and the charterers did not receive written notice of her readiness to receive cargo from them until it was too late for them
to use the vessel for the purposes for which they had chartered
her, which purposes they communicated to the agents of the
vessel at the time the charter-party was executed; and that, in
consequence of such delay and default, they were compelled,
before the arrival'of the vessel, to"charter another in her place,
at a loss of $,000, and, when she did arrive; they refused to
accept and load her.
It was stipulated between the parties, that the allegations made
in the answer to the cross-libel hould be treated as averments
in the original libel, and that, under the answer to the original
libel, any evidence might be offered, and any evidence taken,
which might be admissible under any proper state of the
pleadings.
Proofs were taken, and the District Court dismissed thp
original libel, and decreed a recovery of $4,093.18 in favor of
the libellants in-the cross-libel. 1 Fed. Rep. 178. The decision
of the District Court proceeded on the ground that the words
"about to sail with cargo,1' in the charter-party, meant that
the vessel was to sail as soon as, with reasonable diligence, she
could get her cargo on board.
The charterers appealed.to the Circuit Court from the decrees. Further proofs were taken, and that court found the
following facts:

DAVISON v. VON LINGEN.
Opinion of tre Court.

"1. The British steamer Whickham, owned by T. H. Davison and others, th- I-fendants in the original libel, sailed from
Shields on the 9th of kouly, 1879, bound for Lisbon, where she
arrived on the 16th, and, having discharged her cargo, sailed
again in ballast, on the 23d, for Benizaf, on the coast of Morocco, to take a load of iron ore, under a charter for Philadelphia. She passed Gibraltar on the 25th, and arrived at Benizaf at 4.30 P.m. of Saturday, the 26th. She began taking in
cargo.under the charter for Philadelphia during the forenoon
of Monday, the 28th. On that day she took on board 115
tons, and on the 29th about 90 tons; but on the 30th none;
and on the 31st only four boat loads. During this time there
delivering the cargo on board, as other vessels in
was delay in'
port were entitled to precedence in loading. After the 31stthe cargo was put on board with as much dispatch as could
have been expected at that place, and it was all in on the 7th
of August, at 5.30 P.m. An hour later the vessel sailed, and,
stopping five hours at Gibraltar, for coal, on the 9th, arrived
at Philadelphia on the 2d of September. She completed her
unloading at that port on the Tth.
2. The usual cargo at Benizaf is iron ore. In loading, a
vesisel lies out in the stream about a quarter of a mile from the
shore, and the ore is taken to her in small boats of from five
to seven tons burden each. It is then passed up the ship's
side hi baskets. Two or three stages are put up between the
boats and the ship's decks, and two men on each stage receive
and pass the. baskets. This is the only way of loading such
cargo af'that port.
3.About the first of August, Gregg & Co., a firm of ship
brokers in Philadelphia, were authorized, by cable message
from the owners in Englind, to get a charter for the Whickham, to carry grain from the United States, on her return voyage. :Not being able to do this in Philadelphia, the firm, on
the first of August, telegraphed Mr. Erickson, a ship broker in
Baltimore, to look for a charter in that city. In their telegram
it was said that the vessel 'had saflsd, or was about to sail,
from Benizaf, with cargo, for Philadelphia.' The precise form
of the authority given by the owners to Gregg & Co. is no-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

where shown from the evidence, further than may be inferred
from the telegram to Erickson.
4. A short time before the first of August, Schumacher &
Co., of Baltimore, the original libellhnts, employed Mr. Foard,
another ship broker in that city, to prdaure for them a vessel
to take a cargo of grain to Europe, which they were under
contract to ship in August. He, finding that the steamers for
that month were scarce, and hedring of the Whickham, took
Mr. Erickson to the office of Schumacher & Co., and suggested
that she might do. At the .interview which then took place,
it was understood by all-parties that a vessel was wanted that
could be lo aded in August, and that no other would answer
the purpose. .Schumacher & Co., doubting whether the
Whickbam could arrive in .time, wanted a guaranty that she
would, but this was declined. All parties then made their calculations -as to the probable time of her arrival, upon the basis
of thelanguage in the telegram, and finally Schumacher &
Co. agreed to take her, first, however, providing that she
might be loaded in Philadelphia or Baltimore, at their option,
intending if she did not arrive in time for Baltimore, to get
her ear'go, under their contract, in Philadelphia. In these cal-culations it was assumed by all that she would get away from
Benizaf not later than the second of August, and that her voy. age across would probably 6ie about twenty days. This all oc-"
curred in Baltimore on the first of August, and it does not appear from the evidence that any of the parties, either in Philadelphia or Baltimore, knew anything of the movements of the
vessel except as they were to -be inferred from the. telegram.
There was no communication with Benizaf by telegraph, the
nearest telegraphic station being at Gibraltar, which was a day's
sail away.
5-As"soon as the. bargain was concluded, Erickson sent to
Gregg & Co. for a charter-party in form. They immediately
sent the draft of one, in which the vessel was described as
'Sailed from, or loading at, Benizaf.' "This Schumacher & Co.
:,eclined to accept, on the groand that their agreement was for
i vessel that 'had sailed, or was about to sail, from Benizaf,
.with cargo, for Philadelphia.' This being communicated to

DAVISON v. VON LINGEN.
Opinion of the Court.

Gregg & Co., they at once sent forward a new draft, to meet
the wishes of Schuima'cher & Co., and using the language they
insisted upon. This new draft reached Baltimore on the second
of Augfst, and was duly executed by all parties. This is the
instrument a copy of which is marked Exhibit A, and filed
with the original libel. From this it appears, that, in the
printed blank which was used, there were the following words:
' Charterers to have option of cancelling this charter-party
'
should vessel not have arrived at loading port prior to
These words were erased by drawing a pen through them, before signing
6. Schumacher & Co., having ascertained, on the 9th of
August, that the steamer passed Gibraltar outwards from
Benizaf on that day, and being then satisfied that she would not
arrive in time to load, either at Baltimore or Philadelphia, in
August, at once set about securiug another vessel, and on the
16th got one, which they afterwards loaded at an increased
cost of freight to them over what they would have been compelled to pay the Whickham, of one thousand nine hundred
and eighty-eight ?J6 dollars. It is agreed that this new
charter was effected on as favorable terms as it could have
been in the month of August, and that, if Schumacher & Co.
are entitled to recover at all, it must be for the increase in the
cost of freight which they paid.
7. The discharge of the cargo 'of iron ore from*the Whickham was completed with dispatch, at Philadelphia, and on the
7th of September she sailed for Baltimore, where she arrived
on the 9th, and was tendered Schumacher & Co., under the
charter, on the 11th. They declined to accept her, for the
reason that, as they claimed, when the 'charter-party was
entered into, she had neither sailed nor was about to sail from
Benizaf, within the meaning of that provision in the charter,
as understood by the parties. Another charter was then obtained, but at ajoss to her of four thousand and ninety-three
It is agreed that this charter
'- dollars, as of May 10, 1880.
was as favorable as any that could have been effected, and
that, if her owners are entitled to recover at all, it must be for
the above amount, as their loss."

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

The Circuit Court stated the following conclusions of
law:
"1. That the Whickham was not about to sail from Benizaf
on the 1st of August, within the meaning of that term as used
in the charter-party.
2. That Schumacher & Co. are entitled to recover from the
defendants to their libel the sum of $1,988.25, and the interest
thereon from September 11, 1879.
3. That the cross-libel of T. H. Davison and others must be
dismissed."
A decree was entered in the two suits, reversing the decrees
of the District Court, and adjudging a recovery of $2,128.07,
with interest until paid, in favor of the charterers, and dismissing the cross-libel. 5 Hughes, 221, and 4 Fed. Rep. 346. The
owners of the vessel have appealed to this court.
The decision of-the Circuit Court proceeded on the ground
that the langtage of the charter-party must be interpreted, if
possible, as the parties in Baltimore understood it when they
were contracting. Ti View of the facts, that all the contracting
parties understood that-the vessel was wanted to load in August,
that, as soon s the charterers learned that she did not leave
Gibraltar until the 9th, they took steps to get another vessel,
and that they declined to sign a charter-party which described
the. vessel as "sailed from, or loading at, Benizaf," the- court
held that the language of the charter-party meant that the vessel had either sailed, or was about ready to sail, with cargo;
and that the vessel was not in the condition she was represented,
being not more than three-elevenths loaded.
The arguient for the appellants is, that the words of the
charter-party "about to sail with cargo" imply that the vessel
has some cargo on board but is detained from sailing by not
having all on board, and that she will sail, when, with dispatch,
all her. cargo, which is loading with dispatch, shall be on board;
and that this vessel fulfilled those conditions. As to the attendant circumstances at Baltimore, it is urged that the charterers asked for a guaranty that the vessel would arrive in time
for their purposes, and it was refused, and that the printed
clause as to an option in the charterers to cancel was stricken

DAVISON v. VON LINGEN.
Opinion of the Court.

-out, and that then the charterers accepted the gendral words.
used.
The words of the charter-party are, "now sailed, or about to
sail, from Benizaf, with cargo i-r Philadelphia." The word
"loading" is not found in the contract. The sentence in question implies that the vessel is loaded, because the words "with
cargo" apply -not only to the words "about to sail," but to the
word "sailed," and as, if the vessel had "sailed with cargo,"
she must have had her cargo on board, so, if it is agreed she is
"about to sail with cargo," the meaning is, that she-has her cargo
on board, and is ready to sail. This construction is in harmony
with all that occurred between -theparties at the time, and with
the conduct of the charterers afterwards. The charterers
wanted a guaranty that, even if the vessel had already sailed,
or whenever she should sail, she would arrive in time for them
to loid her with grain in August. This was refused, and the
charterers took the risk of her arriving in time, if she had
sailed, or if, having her cargo then on board, she should, as the
charter-party says, "with all convenient speed, sail and proceed
to Philadelphia or Baltimore." M oreover, the charterers refused to sign a charter-party with the words ( sailed from or loading at, Benizaf," and both parties agreed on the words in the
charter-party, which were the words of authority used by the
agents in Philadelphia. of the owners of the vessel. The erasing of the printed words, as to the option of cancelling, was in
harmony vith the refusal of the owners to guarantee the arrival
by a certain day. So, also, when the charterers learned, on the
9th of August, that the vessel did not leave Gibraltar till that
day, they proceeded to look for another vessel. Itw~s then
apparent that the vessel had not left Benizaf by the 1st of
August, or with such reasonable dispatch thereafter, that she
could have had her cargo on board, ready to sail on the 1st of
August.
That the stipulation in the charter-party, that the vessel is
"now sailed, or about to sail, from Benizaf, with cargo, for
Philadelphia," is a warranty, ox A condition precedent, is, we
think, quite clear. It is a substantive part of the contract, and
not a mere representation, and is not an independent agreement,
VOL. cxii-4

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

serving only as a foundation for an action for compensation in
damages. A breach of it by one party justifies a repudiation
of the contract by the other party, if it has not been partially
executed in his favor. The case falls within the class of which
Glahom v. Hays, 2 Man. & Gr. 257; Ollive v. Booker, 1 Exch.
416; Oliver v. _Fieden, 4 Exch. 135; Gorrissenv. Perrin, 2 C.
B. N. S. 681 ; Croocketoit v. Fletcher, 1 H. & N. 893 ; Seeger -%
Duthie, 8 C. B. N. S. 45; Behn v..Burness, 3 B. & S. 751;
Corkling v. .assey, L. R. 8 C. P. 395, and Lowber v. Bangs, 2
Wall. 728, are examples; and not within the class illustrated
by Tarrabochiav. Hickie, 1 H. & N. 183; Dimech v. CIrlett,
12 Moore P. C. 199, and Clipshamr v. Vertue, 5 Q. B. 265. It is
apparent, from the averments in the pleadings of the charterers,
of facts which are established by the findings, that time and the
situation of the vessel were material and essential parts of the
contract. Construing the contract by the aid of, and in the
light of, the circumstances existing at the time it was made,
averred in the pleadings and found as facts, we have no difficulty in holding the stipulation in question to be a warranty.
See Abbott on Shipping, 11th ed. by Shee, pp. 227, 228. But
the instrument must be construed with reference to the intention of the parties when it was made, irrespective of any events
afterwards occurring; and we place our decision on the ground
that the stipulation was originally intended to be, and by its
terms imports, a condition precedent. The position of the vessel at Benizaf, on the 1st of August-the fact that, if she had
not then-sailed, she was laden with cargo, so that she could sail
-these were the only data on which the charterers could make
any calculation as to whether she could arrive so as to discharge
and reload in August. They rejected her as loading; but, if
she was in such a situation, with cargo in her, that she could
be said to be "about to sail," because she was ready to sail,
they took the risk-as to the length of her voyage.
The decree of the Circuit Court i afflirmed.

