GRIFFITH v. GODEY.
Statement of Pact.

GRIFFITH v. GODEY & Another.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
Argued December 15, 1884.-Decided January 12, 1885.

A probate settlement of an administrator's account does not conclude as to
property fraudulently withheld from it.
In 1870, aliens, residents in California, had the same rights as citizens, to hold

and enjoy real estate.
A trustee receiving money from the sale of real estate is bound to account for
it, without regard to the quality of title conveyed by him.

The facts of this case disclose a case of deception and fraud, practised upon a
person of weak intellect, and a conspiracy to obtain his property for a
consideration so grossly inadequate, as to warrant the intervention of a court
of equity.

This was a suit in equity to charge the defendants as trustees
of certain -property in which the complainant was interested,
and which they received and disposed of. The facts out of
which the case arose, briefly stated, were as follows: For some
years previous to 1870 the complainant Ellis Griffith and his
brother John Griffith were partners, engaged in the business
of cattle raising, and resided in Kern County, California,
where they occupied what is called a stock range-a tract
of country on which cattle are permitted to roam and
graze. It may be termed a feeding ground-the pasture land
of the cattle. Although the title to the land constituting the
range was in the United States, and the land was not inclosed,
the right of the Griffiths to use it for the pasturage of their
cattle was recognized and respected by their neighbors and
other stock raisers in the county. It had excellent springs,
furnishing water to cattle roaming over a large extent of country, and was capable of supporting from one to three thousand
head. It had, therefore, a great value, proportionate to the
number it could support. In April, 1870, one Pedro Altube, a
member of the firm of Peres & Co., large cattle dealers in
California, who was familiar with Kern County and with the

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

character of the range, desired to purchase it for his firm, and
offered for it, with the stock, $12,000.
John Griffith died on May 21, 1870, intestate, leaving surviving him two brothers, the complainant and Morris Griffith,
his only heirs at law. The partnership property of the deceased and the complainant remained in the latter's possession.
It consisted, principally, of horned cattle, horses and the range
'mentioned. The brother Morris, who would have been a
proper party complainant, declined to take part in the suit.
Ellis Griffith, the surviving partner, was a man of weak mind,
without any knowledge of business, and barely able to read
and write. Among his neighbors were the defendants Godey
and Williams. Godey was an old resident of the county,
a man of means, and had the entire confidence of the complainant. On the 9th of June, within a month after the
death of the intestate, Altube spoke to Godey about purchasing the range, and stated that he would give for it, with
the stock, $12,000-the sum he had offered previously in
April-but Godey then had no control over the range and
could therefore give no title to it. The complainant and the
deceased were aliens, and on the 15th of July, 1870, upon the
advice of Godey,-the complainant declared his intention to become a citizen of the United States, and soon afterwards, upon
similar-advice, filed an affidavit in the office of the clerk of the
county, to the effect that he had taken up one hundred and
sixty acres of the range where the springs were. This proceeding was had under a statute of California passed in 1852, which
gave the claimant a standing in the courts of the State, and
enabled him to maintain possession as against any one not having the title of the United States.' The bill alleges that the
complainant did not know the nature of the affidavit he had
filed, but supposed that by the statement he had made in court
he had become a citizen. On the day following, July 16,
Godey filed in-the Probate Court of the county a petition for
special letters of administration on the estate of the deceased,
and on the 19th of July he was appointed special administrator. The complainant, as surviving partner, was entitled to
wind up the affairs'of the partnership; but he consented that

GRIFFITH v. GODEY.
Statement of Facts.

Godey should receive full letters of administration, and, as administrator, settle the estate of the deceased, without prejudice,
however, to his rights, as surviving paitner to an undivided
half of the proceeds of the estate after the payment of its
debts and the expenses of administration. Godey thweupon
resigned as special administrator, and was appointed full administrator. He seems to have considered the consent of the complainant as authorizing him to settle up the partnership business as administrator, and accordingly he at once took possession of all its personal property. In August following he filed
his -inventory, accompanied with his affidavit that it was a
statement of "all the estate of the deceased" which had come
to his knowledge and possession. He did not include in it the
range or any land. The property mentioned was valued by.
appraisers appointed by the court at $3,283.50, and consisted
of one hundred and forty-two horses valued at nine dollars
each, one hundred and twenty-seven cattle valued at fifteen
dollars each, a wagon and harness valued at one hundred dollars, and a branding-iron "valued at fifty cents. On the 16th
of that month, upon representations of Godey, an order -was
obtained from the court, that the horses and cattle be sold, as
perishable property, and, on the 27th of the same month, they
were accordingly sold, together with thirty-one horses not
mentioned in the inventory, but subsequently found to belong
to the partnership, and a few articles of little value also
omitted from the inventory, all of which were bid off by the
defendant Williams for $2,077.50. No portion .of this sum
was paid by Williams at the time. Three weeks afterwards he
paid $600 on account; the balance was not paid until after the
sale to Altube, as hereinafter mentioned. The sale was, however, reported by Godey under.oath tb the Probate Court as
having been made for cash. On the 17th of September, 1870,
the complainant executed a conveyance of his claim of one
hundred and sixty acres to the defendant Godey for the sum
of $500. In the bill be alleged that he did not know the contents of the instrument, but signed it at Godey's request without intending to convey any interest in the range, and that he
received no consideration for it. He was not then, nor at any

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

other time, informed of the offer made for the range and stock
by Altube, of the firm of Peres & Co.
Soon after.this conveyance Godey-informed Altube that he
and Williams would sell him the range and stock for $13,000.
Altube. accepted the offer on condition that a certain squatter
on the land should be removed. They bought off the squatter
for $500; and, .onthe 7th of November, 1870, Altube paid the
$13,000 for the range and stock, which sum was equally divided
between them.
In the accounts filed by the administrator, the sum bid by
the defendant, Williams, and the amount of $450 obtained
from the sale of cattle in another county, were stated as the
proceeds of the whole estate, and they werb applied to various
,claims, the largest of which was held by the administrator,
and -to meet sundry expenditures, until a balance of only
$453.05,/Was left. On the 8th of July, 1872, the Probate
Court made a decree approving of the accounts and directing
that three-fourths, that is $339.78, be awarded to the complainant, a receipt for which was given by Mr. Brundage, who
appears to have been an attorney, acting under an agreement
that he should receive, as his compensation, one-half of what
he should collect. No money was actually paid to the complainant, but the amount was indorsed on a note of his held
by Godey.
rThe present bill was filed to charge the defendants as trustees of the partnership property which came into their hands,
and compel them to account for the proceeds obtained by them
on its sale to Altube. Its prayer was not in form for this specific relief, but for an accounting for the value of the property
or such other relief as might be just.
The court below was of opinion that as the two Griffiths,
who composed the partnership, were both aliens and had never
taken any steps to become citizens of the United States, and as
the range was on unsurveyed public lands of the United States,
which they had never enclosed, they had in it no such property
interest as to require the administrator to include the claim in
his inventory of the property of the deceased. The court also
held that the proofs did not. sustain the allegations as to the

GRIFFITH v. GODEY.
Opinion of the Court.

misappropriation of the other property, or of its sale at an inadequate price. The bill was accordingly dismissed, and from
that decree the case was brought by'appeal to this court.
.Yr. .Fank W..Hakett for appellant.
lNo appearance for appellee.
Mm. JuSTmE FiELD delivered the opinion of the court. He
recited the facts as above stated, and continued:
It is well established that a settlement of an administrator's
account, by the decree of a Probate Court, does not conclude
as to property accidentally or fraudulently withheld from the
account. If the property be omitted by mistake, or be subsequently discovered, a court of equity may exercise its jurisdiction in the premises, and take such action as justice to the
heirs of the deceased or to the creditors of the estate may require, even if the Probate Court might, in such case, open its
decree and administer upon the omitted property. And a
fraudulent coficealment of property, or a fraudulent disposition
of it, is a general and always existing ground for the interposition of equity. Here, all the property of which the defendant Godey, as administrator of the deceased, took possession
belonged to the partnership of which the complainant was the
surviving partner. The portion coming to the deceased was
merely the one undivided half after payment of the debts of
the partnership. Only upon such portion could the court properly authorize administration. The administrator, however,
interpreted the consent of the complainant that he might settle
the estate of the deceased, as authority to take the whole partnership property under his control, equally as if it were the
separate property of the deceased, though the consent expressly reserves the rights of the complainant as surviving
partner.
The complainant, it appears, was a man of weak intellect,
without any knowledge of business, and hardly able to read
and write; and it is evident that he was ignorant of the nature
and extent of his rights over the partnership property after the
death of his brother, who had had the principal management

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

of it. Under such circumstances, the administrato was bound
to the utmost good faith in his dealings with the property, and
should be held, in its disposition, to the responsibilities of a
trustee of the complainant, though we leave the proceedings of
the Probate Court undisturbed.
The cattle range, which constituted the property of greatest
value belonging to the partnership, was not taken'ossession of
by'the administrator, though by the law of California, then in
force, all property of an intestate, real or personal, went into
the hands of that officer, for purposes of administration. Curtis
v. Sutter, 15 Cal 259, 264. He plainly had a design to secure
the range to himself at a trifling cost, knowing that a large
price was offered for it, and could at any time be obtained.
The whole administration seems to have been conducted by
him to cairy out this design. He first takes steps to have the
cattle and horses of the partnership sold as perishable property,
upon the representation that they were likely to decrease in
value, become worse by keeping, and were subject to loss and
expense, and, therefore, that their sale would be best for the
estate; yet he well knew that a sale of. the cattle, separate from
the range, would be much less advantageous than with it, and
the falsehood of the alleged necessity appears from the fact
that the range was amply sufficient for the support of the cattle,
and that they were never removed fromi it. He next persuades
the complainant to declare his intention to become a citizen,
and to file a claim to one hundred and sixty acres of the range,
enclosing the springs, and then obtains a deed from him for
the trifling consideration of $500. The complainant alleges
that he never knew the contents of the instrument he signed,
and never received the consideration named.. But, assuming
that he is mistaken in this particular, he was not informed of
the value of the range; nothing was said to him of the price
offered for it, and which Godey knew was ready to be again
offered.
No sooner was this conveyance obtained than Godey opened
communication with Altube, offering to sell the range and stock
for $13,000. The offer was accepted on a condition which was
complied with .by an expenditure of $500. A sale was then

GRIFFITH v. GODEY.
Opinion of the Cour.

effected, and the $13,000 paid to the defendants, and, as if to
show that the transaction was the result of a conspiracy, the
proceeds were equally divided between them. It was a case of
deception and fraud practised upon a man of weak intellect,
and the rule which is stated in Allore v. Jewett, 94 U. S. 506,,
511, to be settled law is applicable: "That, whenever there is
great weakness of mind in a person executing a conveyance of
land, arising from age, sickness, or any other cause, though not
amounting to absolute disqualification, and the consideration
given for the property-is grossly inadequate, a cou.t of equity
will, upon proper and seasonable application of the injured
party, or his representatives or heirs, interfere and set the conveyance aside." The complainant does not ask to have the
conveyance to Godey set aside, but he asks that Godey may
be compelled to account to him for the amount received f6r the
property, of which he had thus fraudulently obtained a conveyance.
It is plain, also, that the defendant Williams participated in
the fraudulent design. He never paid anything on his bid for
the horses and cattle at the probate sale until weeks afterwards,
and then less than one-fourth of the amount; it was not until
after the cattle and horses were purchased by Altube that he
paid the balance, although he knew that the probate sale could
be made only for cash, and that the amount bid by him had
been reported to the court as cash paid. He knew, also, that
the property did not belong to the deceased, but to the partnership between him and the complainant, and that the latter had
not relinquished his partnership rights. He therefore took the
property with notice of those rights and of the relation as trustee which the administrator bore to the complainant. The
record shows that all the partnership property was sold within
six months after the death of the deceased, so as to net over
$12,000, and that out of that sum the cofiplainant received
only $500. The defendants made a large profit out of the
transactions, which they divided between them. They should,
therefore, be required to account to the complainant, as surviving partner of the deceased, for their unjust gains. In such
accounting they should be charged vith the amount received

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

by them from the sale to Altube, and be credited with the
amount paid by defendant Williams for the property purchased
at the probate sale, the sum of $500 paid by defendant Godey
for the conveyance of the possessory claim, and the $500 paid
to remove the squatter from the land, the balance to draw
interest until decree.The error of the court below arose from treating the possessory right to the cattle range on the public lands-as it was
then held by the partnership on the death of John Griffith-.-as
not constituting any property of value which could be recognized as such by the courts, the claimants being both aliens
who had never taken any st6ps to be naturalized. But the
Constit tion of California then in force invested foreigners,
who were bona d* residents of the State, with the same rights,
in respect to the possession and enjoymient of property, as native born citizens. Art. L § 1'. And the possessory right to
the range, though held by aliens, was respected by their neighbors -and all cattle dealers of the country, and had a market
value; as shown by the price which others were ready to pay
for it.
The responsibility of trustees does not depend upon the validity of the title of the grantor of the trust property. If the
right or.interest transferred to them can be sold for a valuable
consideration, it is to be treated as property; and corresponding duties devolve upon the trustees with respect to its sale as
upon the sale of property, the title of which is undisputed.
The decree of the court below isreversed, and the cause remanded with directions to enter a decree in conformity
With thi§ opinion.

