KANSAS PACIFIC RY. CO. v. DUNMEYER.
Syllabus.

to other sections along the line. The sections in which stich
gratt falls are correspondingly reduced.
It follows that where the grant previously made to Minnesota to aid in the construction of the Minnesota and Cedar Valley Railroad interferes with the extension of the grant to the
defendant by the act of 1865, the extension must be abandoned.
The earlier grant takes the land which would otherwise be
added to the original six sections. The court below therefore
erred in holding that the Winona Company was entitled to ten
full sections where such interference occurred, without deducting the lands previously granted to the State.
The cause must, therefore, go back that the proper deduction
may be made by reason of this interference of the two grants,
and the elder grait be deducted from the extension made by
the act of 1865.
.Decree reversed, and cause r'enunded, with d'iecti8o

to take

furthrproeedinpin accordanwe with thig opinion.

KANSAS PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANqTY v,. DUNMEYER.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
Argued November 6, 1884.-Decided March 2. 185.
The line of definite location of a railroad, which determines the rights of railroad companies to land under land grant acts of Congress, is definitely
fixed, within the meaning of those acts, by filing the map of its location
with the Commissioner of the General Land Office at Washington.
Under the acts granting lands to aid in the construction of a line of railroad
from the Missouri Riiver to the Pacific Ocean, the claim of a homestead, or
pre-emption entry, made at any time before the filing of that map in the
General Land Office, had attached, within the meaning of those statutes,
and no land to which such right had attached came within the grant.
The subsequent failure of the person making such claim to'comply with the
acts of Congress concerning residence, cultivation Und building on the land,
or his actual abandonment of the claim, does not cause it to revert to the
railroad company and become a part of the grant. The claim having at-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.
tached at the time of filing the definite line of the road, it did not pass by
the grant, but was, by its express terms, excluded, and the company.had
no interest, reversionary or otherwise, in it.
The act of July 8, 1866, 14 Stat. 79, which authorized the Secretary of the
Interior to withdraw certain lands from sale, on filing a map of the general
route of the road with him, did not reserve such, lands from entry undez
the pre-emption and ?wnetead laws.

Suit for breach of covenant of warranty of title to a tract of
land in Kansas. Plaintiff in error was defendant below. Its
title was derived from grants of public land to aid in the construction of a railway to the Pacific, under the acts of July r,
1862, 12 Stat. 489 ; July 2, 1864, 13 Stat. 356; and July 3,
1866, 14 Stat. 79. The tract was within the location of the
railroad grants,- but was excepted from those grants by reason
of a homestead entry, and possession. Subsequent to this entry
and possession, the party so in possession took title from the
railroad company, and the homestead entry was cancelled. The
alleged paramount adverse title was derived from a patent from
the United States, issued on a homestead entry made subsequent to these proceedings. • The Supreme Court of Kansas
found that therd was a breach of the warranty, and rendered
fudgment accordingly. This writ of error was brought to review that judgment.
_A". J. P. Usher for plaintiff in error.-Xisouri,tansa8
& Texas Railway Co. v. Aansas Paciic Railway Co., 97 U.
S. 491, goes far towards settling the construction of the acts of
1862 and 1864. 'They are there declared to be a single act, so
far as the grants of land are concerned.' Treating the acts as
one, attention will now be directed to § 3 of the act of 1S'9,
and § 4 of the act of 1864. In these sections are embraced the
grant of lands and limitations. In § 3 the grant is described
to be: "Every alternate section of public land, designated by
odd numbers, to the amount of five alternate sections per mile
on each side of said railroad, on the line thereof, and within the
limits of ten miles on each side of'said road, not sold, reserved,
or otherwise disposed of by the United States, and to which a
pre-emption or homestead claim may not have attached at the
time the line of said road is definitely filed." § 4 of the act of

KANSAS PACIFIC .RY. CO. v. DUNMEYER.
Argutmnt for Plaintiff in Error.

1864, after stating the amendments,. goes on: "And any land
granted by this act, or the. act to which this is an amendment,
shall not defeat or impair any pre-emption, homestead, swamp
land, or other lawful claim." It will be observed that by
§ 3 there was excepted from the grant, lands upon which a
homestead claim had attached at the time the line of the road
was definitely fixed. It is clear that Congress did not in'tend that the w6rds "to which a homestead or pre-emption
claim may not have attached," in § 2 of the act of 1862, should
defeat the grant to the railroad company, unless the claim was
perfected. The grant was of public lands. Lands enteredunder homestead and pre-emption laws remained public lands
until the titles were perfected. .Frisble v. Whitney, 9 Wall.
187; Yo8emite Case, 15 Wall. 77; Shepley v. Cowan, 91 U. S.
330; Railroad Co. v. Baldwin, 1.03 U. S. 426. To relieve the
company from any possibiity of loss -by reason of a misconstruction of the meaning of the words, "¢may not have
attached," in § 3 of the act of 1862, Congress, in § 4 of
the act of 1864, 'was explicit in declaring the exceptions
from the grant. The declaration was that the grant "shall
not defeat or impair any pre-emption, homestead, swamp-land
dr other lawful claim." This exception was in favor of the homestead or pre-emption claimants, and was intended to define and
make certain what was granted.' Obviously it was the intention
of Congress to grant all the odd sections of the public lands
within the prescribed limits, though entries of parcels of them
may have been made under the homestead or pre-emption laws,
unless the parties making such entries should perfect their titles.
If such parties voluntarily abandoned their possession and
entries, and. that fact came to the knowledge of the Department of the Interior, the duty was to correct the books and
make the fact appear, and allow the lands to be selected by
the railroad company, and upon completion of the railroad, to
issue patents to -the company for such lands. It should be
noted that Dunmeyer does not claim title under the homestead
entry of Miller. He repudiates all right of claim under his
entry, maintains with the railroad company that it was invalid
and therefore was 6ancelled, and that he was defeatea in his

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

possession by a subsequent entry by G. B. Dunmeyer under
the homestead laws. The decision of this court in Bugbey'8
Cae, 96 U. S. 165, is much in point here. In that case a party
was found in possession of the south half of section 16, town
10, range 8, when the survey of public lands in California was
made, and was therefore within the exception of the grant to
the State, and might have proceeded and perfected his title
under the pre-emption laws. He omitted to make claim under
the preemption laws and abandoned his possession. In respect
to the transaction this court said, on page 167, "the settler,
however, was under no obligation to assert his claim, and he
having abandoned it, the title of the State became absolute as
of May 19, 1866, when the surveyi were completed." It is
difficult to perceive why the law laid down by this court in
that case is not conclusive in favor of the railroad company
in this.
No appearance for defendant in error.
Mn. JusTioE MLL= delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of Kansas.
The action was brought in that court on a covenant of warranty of title to two pieces .of land, ina deed of conveyance
made by the company to Dunmeyer. The land was sold by
the company to George W. Miller, to whom a certificate of
sale was given, which afterward came by assignments to Lewis
Dunmeyer, to whom the company made a deed purporting to
convey a good title. On this covenant for good title Dunmeyer
brought the present action, alleging that the railroad company
never had any title, and-that the covenant was therefore
broken. On this issue the case was tried. Several other defences were set up; among them, that the covenant was not
broken, because Dunmeyer was in possession when he bought
the certificate issued to Miller and when he took his deed, and
has never been disturbed or ousted; that Miller was in possession when he bought of the company and transferred possession
to Dunmeyer, and that this has been held ever since; and that
Miller's purchase was a compromise of disputed righs, and he

KANSAS PACIFIC RY. CO. v. DUNMEYER.

633

Opinion of the Court.
and Dunmeyer are therefore estop*ed to maintain this action.
But these and perhaps other points, decided against plaintiff in
error, do not present questions of federal law which this court
can review in a judgment of a State court.
Two such questions are presented by this record, .which are
said to be of great importance as covering controverted titles
to many thousand acres of valuable laud. The sum involved
in this suit is but littlo 'over $300 and while the plaintiff in
error has been represented here by able counsel and by oral
arguments at two different hearings, we have no aid from
the defendant, either by counsel or brief. This is very much
to be regretted, but is without remedy, and only devolves on
.the court the duty of more than ordinary care in ts own examination of the case.
The claim of title of the railroad company, which the Supreme Court of Kansas held to be no title, arises under two acts
of Congress. granting land to the Union Pacifi6 Railroad Company and its branches, namely, the act of July 1, 1862, 12 Stat.
489, and the amendatory act of July 2, 1864, 13 Stat. 356, and
another act of July 3, 1866, 14 Stat. 79.
The land, the title to .which is in controversy in this suit, is
part of an odd-numbered section, and lies within ten miles of
the company's road, and the title of the company to it when
it made the conveyance to Dunmeyer was perfect, under the
grant found in the acts of Congress mentioned, unless it came
within some of the exceptions contained in the language of the
grant. The Supreme Court of Kansas based its decision on
the ground that it did come within the language of such an
exception. That language is as follows:
"§ 3.And be it further enacted, That there be, and hereby
is, granted to the said company, for. the purpose of aiding in
the construction of said railroad and telegraph line, and to secure speedy transportation of the mails, troops, munitions of
war, and public stores thereon, every alternate section of public
land, designated by odd numbers, to' the amount of five alternate sections per mile, on each side of said road, on the line
thereof, and within the limits of ten miles on each side of said
road, not sold, reserved, or otherwise disposed of by the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

States, and to which a pre-emption or homestead claim may not
have attached, at the time the line of said road is definitely
fixed." 12 Stat. 492. An exception of mineral lands follows
in a proviso which does not affect the present question.
The record shows that on July 25, 1866, Miller made a homestead entry on this land which was in every respect valid, if
the land was then public land subject to such entry. It also
shows that the line of definite location of the company's road
was first filed with the Commissioner of the General Land Office at Washington, September 21, 1866. This entry of M iller's,
therefore, brought the land within the language of the exception in the grant as land to which a homestead claim had
attached at the time the line 61 said road was definitely fixed.
For we are of opinion, that under this grant, as under many
other grants containing the same words, or words to the same
purport, the act which fixes the time of definite location is the
act of filing the map or plat of this line in the office of the
Commissioner of the General Land Office.
The necessity of having certainty in the act fixing this time
is obvious. Up to that time the, right of the company to no
definite section, or part of section, is fixed. Until then many
rights to the land along which- the road finally runs may attach, which will be paramount to that of the company building
the road. After this no such rights can attach, because the
right of the company becomes by that act vested. It is important, therefore, that this act fixing these rights shall be one
which is open to inspection. At the same time it is an act to
be done by the company. The company makes its own preliminary and final surveys by its own officers. It selects for itself
the precise line on which the road is to be built, and it is by law
bound to report its action by filing its map with the Commissioner, or rather, in his office. The line is then fixed. The
company cannot alter it so as to affect the rights of any other
party. Of course, as soon as pQssible, the Commissioner ought
to send copies of this map to the registers and receivers through
whose territory the line runs. But he may delay this, or neglect it for a long time, and parties may assert claims to some
of these lands, originating after the company has done its duty

KANSAS PACIFIC RY. CO. v. DUNMEYER.
Opinion of the Court.

-all it can do-by placing in an appropriate place, and among
the public records, where the statute says it must place it, this
map of definite location, by which the time of the vestiture of
their rights is to be determined. We concede, then, that the
filing of the map in the office of the Commissioner is the act by
which "the line of the road is definitely fixed" under the
statute. Fan Wfyok v. Kneva 8, 106 U. S. 360.
It is strongly argued, by counsel for plaintiff in error, that
the language of the excepting clause in the third section of the
act of 1862 is modified or repealed by certain expressions
found in § 4 of the amendatory act of 1864.
That section is intended to increase the grant of land made
by the act of 1862 to double the quantity then granted. It
does this by very peculiar language. It was evidently designed
that 'the new grant should relate back for its date to that of
the original grant, whereby it became retrospective as to all the
lands added by the new act. It says that "five" in the old
act shall read "ten," where the number of sections are mentioned. That "ten" shall read "twenty" where the limits
within which the section may be found is described by miles.
And it says that the term "mineral lands," in the exception in
the grant, shall not be construed to mean coal or iron lands.
Seeing, however, that this retrospective grant might affect
rights already accrued or initiated, it is said in immediate connection, and in the same section, that "any lands granted by
this act, or the act to which this is an amendment, shall not
defeat or impair any pre-emptinfi, homestead, swamp-land, or
other lawful claim, nor include any government reservation or
mineral lands, or the improvements of any bona )He settler, on
any lands returned and denominated as mineral land." 13
Stat. 358.
It is difficult to see how this language, the main purpose of
which was to prevent this retroactive grant from harming any
kind of a claim to the lands granted which had taken effect
before the statute was passed, can be construed as repealing the fundamental clause of the original act, in which the
character of the grant and of its exceptions are fully defined.

636'.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

This new provision may make other exceptions while enlarging the 'iant, and was undoubtedly intended to add further
safeguards to the settler and further protection to the public.
But how the clause can be supposed to narrow the original
exception, or to be a substitute for that exception, or to repeal
it,. is not readily to be seen.'
It had no such purpose. It had a very different purpose,
and clearly leaves the original section, which it changes as to
the limit of the grant, to stand as to the exception, save as further exceptions are added.
Another argument, which at first blush appears to rest on a
stronger foundation, requires examination.
The record shows that while the company did not file its
line of definite location until about two months after Millermade his homestead entry, it did designate the general route
of said road, and file a map thereof in the General Land Office,
July 11. of the same year, 1866, which was fifteen days before
Miller's homestead entry. This latter map iyas filed in the
office of the register and receiver on the 26th of July, one day
after Miller made his entry.
It is argued that until this was done Miller's right of entry
remained unaffected.
But we are of opinion that the duty of filing this map, as
required by the act, like that of the line of definite location, is
performed by filing it in the General Land Office, which is
filing it with the Secretary of the Interior, and that whatever
rights accrue to the company from the act of filing it accrue
from filing it there.
What are those rights? This action does not, like the filing
of the line of definite location, vest in the company a right to
any specific piece of land. It establishes no claim to any particular section with -an odd number. It authorizes the Secretary to withdraw certain land from sale, pre-emption, &c.
What if he fails to do this? What if he makes an order, as in
this case, withdrawing a limit of twenty-five miles from sale,
yet permits a party to enter and obtain a patent on some of
this land?
Without answering these general questions, we proceed to

KANSAS PACIFIC RY. CO. v. DUNMEYER.

637

Opinion of the Court.

show that, by the statutes under which the company claims
the land, the act of filing this map, did not withdraw the land
from homestead entry.
By § 7 of the act of 1862 it is "provided, that within two
years after the passage of this act, said company shall designate the general route of said road, as near as may be, and
shall fie a map of the same in the Department of the Interior,
whereupon the Secretary 6f the Interior shall cause the lands
within fifteen miles of said designated route or routes to be
withdrawn from pre-emptjon, private entnj, and 8ale; and
when any portion of said route shall be finally located, the
Secretary.of the Interior shall cause the said lands hereinbefore
granted to be surveyed and set off, as fast as may be necessary
for the pharposes herein named."
At the time of the passage of the amendatory act of 1864,
the general route of the road had not been designated, and,
therefore, the fifth section of that act says "1that the time for
designating the general route of said railroad, and of filing the
map of the same, and the time for the completing of that part
of the railroads, required by the terms of said act [of 1862], of
each company, be, and the same is hereby, extended one year
from the time in said act designated."
It appears that in the year 1866, though the time for the
designation of the general route had expired a year before, it
had not yet been done or completed. To relieve the company
from this failure to comply with the law, Congress enacted,
July 3, 1866, "that the Union Pacific Railway Company,
Eastern division [which is the branch now called the Kansas
Pacific Railway Company], is hereby authorized to designate
the general route of their said road and file a map thereof, as
now required by law, at any time before the first day of December, eighteen hundred and sixty-six; and upon the filing of
the said map, showing the general route of said road, the lands
along the entire line thereof, so far as the same may be designated, shall be reserved from 8aZe by order of the Secretary of
the Interior."
It is under this latter statute that the railroad company, now
plaintiff in error, filed its map of the general designation of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

route in the Department of the Interior, July 11, 1866, fifteen
days before Miller's entry.
It will be observed that by the act of 1862, upon the filing
of the company's map of designation of its general route, the
Secretary was required to withdraw the lands within fifteen
miles of said designated route from "pre-emption,private entry,

and sale." In the terminology of the laws concerning the disposition of the public lands of the United States, each of these
words has a distinct and well-known meaning in regard to the
mode of acquiring rights in these lands. This is plainly to be
seen in the statutes we are construing. In the third section or
granting clause there are excepted from the grant all lands which
at the time the definite location of the road is fixed had been
sold, reserved, or otherwise disposed of, and to which a preemption or homestead claim had attached. Here sale, preemption, and homestead claims are mentioned as three different
modes of acquiring an interest in the public lands, which is to
be respected when the road becomes located, and the words are
clearly used because they were thought to be necessary. But
a sale for money in hand, by an entry made by the party
buying, is throughout the whole body of laws for disposing of
the public lands understood to mean a different thing from.
the establishment of a pre-emption or homestead right where
the party sets up a claim to a definite piece of land, and is
bound to build on it, make fences, cultivate and reside on it for
a period of time prescribed by law.
In the act of 1866, after the company had neglected for four
years to make this designation of their general route, they were
allowed six months longer, and no more, to file their map.
The statute did not give the Secretary the same directions
when this should be done which the original act of 1862 gave
him, but this act declared that the lands along the entire line,
so far as the same may be designated, shall be reserved from
sale by order of the Secretary of the Interior. The lands were,
therefore, to be reserved from sale only, and not from preemption or homestead claims. The dropping of these words
in the later enactment, when they had been carefully inserted
both in the excepting clause of the original grant and in the

KANSAS PACIFIC RY. CO. v. DUNMEYER.
Opinion of the Court.

direction for withdrawal in the same act, on filing the designation of the general route, is sufficient of itself to show a
purpose in leaving them out of the reserving clause of the act
of 1866.
There is, however, a very obvious reason for it. The cc
pany had been negligent about filing this map. It was asking
further time to do so as a favor. Congress said: We will grant
you six months more, and when your map is filed the mere
purchaser for money shall not be permitted to buy within the
limit of your general route. He may be buying for speculation on the rise in value produced by the construction of your
road. But we will no longer prevent the' actual-settler who
resides upon and improves this land from locating on it ajd
establishing a right either under the pre-emption or the homestead law. You have it in your power to put an end to this as
soon as you will, by filifltg the map of your definite location of
the road in the land office. Until you do this, the actual settler
shall not be excluded from these landd.
We are, therefore, of opinion, in view of all the legislation
on this subject, that the homestead claim of Miller had attached
to the land in controversy when the line of the company's road
was definitely fixed.
Another question of no little importance arises from the fact
found in the record, that, while Miller made his homestead entry
July 25, 1866, and entered upon the land within the time prescribed by law, erected a house on it, and brought his family to
live on it, and made the tract his home until the spring of 1870,
he afterwards abandoned his homestead claim, and bought the
land of the railroad company, and paid for it, and sold the land
and transferred the certificate of sale to Dunmeyer, who
obtained the conveyance from the company. After all this
Miller's homestead "intry was cancelled, no doubt with Dunmeyer's consent, and G. B. Dunmeyer made a homestead eiitry
which the land department held to be valid.
It is argued by the company that, although Miller's homestead entry had attached to the land, within the meaning of
the excepting: clause of the grant, before the line of definite
location was filed by it, yet when Miller abandoned his claim,

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

so that it no longer existed, the exception no longer operated,
and the land reverted to the - company-that the grant by
its inherent force reasserted itself and extended to or covered the land as though it had never been within the excep.
tion..
We are unable to perceive the force of this proposition.
The ]and granted by Congress was from its very character and
surroundings uncertain in many respects, until the thing was
done which should remove that uncertainty, and give precision
to the grant. Wherever the road might go, the grant was
limited originally to five sections, and, by the amendment of
1864, to ten sections on each side of it within the limit of
twenty miles. These were to be odd-numbered- sections, so
that the even-numbered sections did not pass by the grant.
And these 6dd-numbered sections were to be those "not sold,
reserved, or otherwise disposed of by the United States, and
to which a pre-emption or homestead right had not attached
at the time the line of said road is definitely fixed." When the
line was fixed, which we have already said was by the act
of filing this map of definite location in the General Land
Office, then the criterion was established by which the lands to
which the road had a right were to be determined. Topographically this determined which were the en odd sections
on each side of that line where the surveys had then been
made. Where they had not been made, this determination was
only postponed until the survey should have been made. This
filing of the map of definite location furnished also the means
of determining what lands had previously to that moment
been sold, reserved, or otherwise disposed of by the United
States, and to which a pre-emption or homestead claim had attached; for, by examiningthe plats of this land in the office of
the register and receiver, or in the General Land Office, it
could readily have been seen if any of the odd sections within
ten miles of the line had been sold, or disposed of, or reserved,
or a homestead or pre-emption claim had attached to any of
them. In regard to all such sections they were not granted.
The express and unequivocal language of the statute is that
the odd sections not in this condition are granted. The grant

KANSAS PACIFIC RY. CO. v. DUNMEYER.
Opinion of the Court.

is limited, by its clear meaning, to the other odd sections, and
not to these.
No attempt has ever been made to include lands reserved to
the United States, which reservation afterwards ceased to
exist, within the grant, though this road, and others with
grants in similar language, have more than once passed through
military reservations for forts and other purposes, which have
been given up or abandoned as such reservations, and were of
great value. NQr is it understood that, in any case where
lands had been otherwise disposed of, their reversion to the
government brought them within the grant.
Why should a different construction apply to lands, to which
a homestead or pre-emption right had attached? Did Congress
intend to say that the right of the company also attaches, and
whichever proved to be the better right should obtain the
land?
The company had no absolute right until the road was built,
or that part of it which came through the land in question.
The homestead man had five years of residehce and cultivation
to perform before his right became.absolute. The pre-emptoi
had similar duties to perform in regard to cultivation, residence,
&c., for a shorter period, and then payment of the price of the
land. It is not conceivable that'CQngress intended to place
these parties as contestants for the ]aW4, with the right in each
to require proof from the other of complete performance of its
obligation. Least of all is to be supposed that it was intended
to raise up, in antagonism to all the actual settlers on the soil,
whom it had invited to its occupation, this great corporation,
with an interest to defeat their claims, and to come between
them and the government as to the performance of their obligations.
The reasonable purpose of the government undoubtedly is
that which it expressed, namely, while we are giving liberally
to the railroad company, we do not give any lands we have
already sold, or to which, according to our laws, we have permitted a pre-emption or homestead right to attach. No right
to such land passes by this grant. No interest in the railroad
conipany attaches to this land or is to be founded on this
OL., ox=i-41

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court

statute. Such is the clear and necessary meaning of the words
that there is granted every alternate section of odd numbers to
which these rights have not attached. It necessarily means
that, if such rights have attached, they are not granted.
Though .the precise question here. presented may not have
been 1freviously decided by this court, we are of opinion that
the principles which should govern it have been acted on in
other cases.
In ffewhall v. Sanger, 92 .U. S. 761, the Western Pacific
"Rtilroad Company, which by subsequent legislation of Congress became entitled to. the benefits of the acts of 1862 and
1864, already discussed, having filed a map of definite location,
obtained from the United States a patent for lands supposed to
be included in its grant. The land in controversy, however,
was within the boundaries of a claim under a Mexican grant,_
which had been regularly presented and prosecuted by appeal,
and was finally rejected February 13, 1865. The line of the
route of the company's road had been filed before this, and
the order withdrawing the land from private entry had been
made.
The argument in favor of the company was, that the decision that the Mexican claim was invalid- restored the land to the
operation of the grant to the railroad company, and that the
patent issued'to the company was valid. But the court held
that the land never became subject to the grant, and that the
holder of a subsequent patent from the United States had the
superior title.
A similar decision was made at the same term in the case of the
-Leavenworth,.Lawren"e and Galveston Railroad Co. v. United
State8, 92 U. S. 733, to the effect that the purchase by the
United States of Osage lands of the Indians, after a similar
grant to that company, did not make it subject to the grant
,of 1863 of every alternate section along the line of the road.
It is said that the case of the Water and Xining Co. v. Bygbey,
96 U. S. 165, should control the decision of this, and undoubtedly there are some analogies between them.
That case grew out of the act of Congress of March 3, 1853,
10 Stat. 244, which, in providing for the system of surveying

KANSAS PACIFIC RY. CO. v. DUNMEYER.

643

Opinion of the Court.

and disposing of the government lands in California, gave to
that State, as it had done to others, every sixteenth and thfrtysixth section of a township for school purposes, No public,
surveys had at that time been made, and there was no probability that they could be made as fast as the tide of emigration
would fill the country with settlers on these lands. To encourage these settlers and protect them against this grant of the
school lands, it was provided in that.act "that where any settlement by the erection of a dwelling-house, or the cultivation
of any portion of the land, shall be made upon the sixteenth
or thirty-sixth sections, before the same shall be surveyed, or
where such sections may be reserved for public uses or taken
by private claims, other land shall be selected by the proper
authorities of the State in lieu thereof."

10 Stat. §-7, 247.

Bugbey had made a settlement on one of these sections, and
was there when the survey of the land was completed, May 19,
1866, but he never made any declaration of that fact or sought
to establish any right by reason of this settlement under the
act of 1853, or under the general pre-emption' law, and the
register of the land office certified to the State land office, on
the 28th of September, 1866, that no claim had been filed to this
section sixteen, except by one Hancock, afterwards abandoned.
On the 22d of April, 1867, Bugbey purchased of the State the
part of the section on which the premises in controversy in that
suit were situated, and took a patent for it.
An act of Congress of July 26, 1866, 14 Stat. 251, gave the
right of way for ditches and canals in all public lands when
they were recognized by local customs, laws and decisions of
the courts, and the water and mining company, having run
their canal through this land, asserted the right to do so under
this statute, which Bugbey resisted. This court said that, if
the title to the land was in the 'United States at the passage of
the act of July 26, 1866, it conferred the right claime4 as
against Bugbey, who purchased of the State in 1867. But it
further held that the title was then in the State of California,
for the reason that Bugbey had never asserted any claim as a
pre-emptor, but had recognized the right of the State, and purchased of the State and was then relying on its patent.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.'

The reasoning of the court was not blaborated, but it is clear,
by its reference to the case of Buick v. Sherman, 93 U. S.209,
which it distinguishes. from Bugbey's case by showing that
Buick had prosecuted his right of pre-emption by asserting and
perfecting his claim in the United States Land Office, that
Bugbey's failure to assert, at any time or in any place, any
right growing out of his settlement on the land prevented the
mining company from asserting that the title was in the United
States when the act of .July 26, 1866, was enacted. It passed
by the statute of 1853 to the State, and was ascertained to be
a sixteenth section by the survey, the filing of which perfected
the title to the State, unless a right of pre-emption was asserted and proved to be in existenbe at that time. lNo such
claim was bver made and the title passed to the State.
In the case before us a claim was made and filed in the land
office, and there recognized, before the line of the company's
road was located. That claim was an existing one of public
record in favor of Miller when the map of plaintiff in error was
filed. In the language of the act of Congress this homestead
claim had attached to the land, and it therefore did not pass by
the grant.
Of all the words in the English language, this word attached
was probably the best that could have been used. It did not
mean nere settlement, residence, or cultivation of the land, but
it meant a proceeding in the proper- land office, by which the
inchoate right to the land was initiated. It meant that by
such a proceeding a right of homestead had fastened to that
land, which could ripen into a perfect title by future resideice
and cultivation. With the performance -of these conditions
the company had nothing to do. The right of the homestead
having attached to the land it was excepted out of the grant
as much as if in a deed, it had been excluded from the conveyance by metes and bounds.
The difference in the two'cases is obvious.
Thejudgment o the Supreme Court of the State of XEama
ig affirmed.

