BRYAN v. KENNETT.
Syllabus.

mode of operation of the parts of the mechanism is the same,
in their relation to each other, and the result is the same.
Richardson's invention brought to success what prior inventors had essayed and partly accomplished. He used some
things which had been used before, but he added just that
which.was necessary to make the whole a practically valuable
and economical apparatus. The fact that the known valves
were not used, and the speedy and extensive adoption of
Richardson's valve, are facts in harmony with the evidence
that his valve contains just what the prior valves'lacl and go
to support the conclusion at which we have arrived on the
question of novelty. When the ideas necessary to success are
made known, and a structure embodying 'those ideas is given
to the world, it is easy for the skilful mechanic to vary the
form by mechanism which is equivalent, and is, therefore, in a
case of this kind, an infringement.
It follows, from these views, that
The decrees of the Circuit Court must be r'evereged, and each
case be remanded to that court, with a direction to enter a
decree sustaining the validity of the patent sued on, and
decreeing infringement, and awarding an account of profits
and damages, as prayed for, and to take such furtherproceedings a may be _proper and not inconsistentwith th.'
opinion, and with the further direction, as to the suit
brought on thepatent of 1869, to grant a perpetualinjunc.
tion, accordingto the prayer of the bill.

BRYAN & Others v. KENNETT & Others.

IN ERROR

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UT ED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
Argued December 12, 1884.-Decided January 5, 1885.

The term "property," in the treaty by which the United States acquired
Louisiana, comprehends every species of title, inchoate or complete, legal

ot equitable, and embraces rights which lie in contract, executory as well
as executed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.
The incomplete title acquired from the Spanish government, prior to the ireaty
of St. Ildefonso between Spain and France, to lands in the territory now
embraced within the State of Missouri, was such a property interest as could
be transferred by mortgage or reached by judicial process.
Congress intended by the act of February 14, 1874, 18 Stat. 16, entitled "CAn
Act to confirm certain titles in the State of Missouri," to recognize the claim
of Austin arising from the Spanish concession, survey, and grant recited in
its preamble, and to assure those who were in possession, by contract or by
operation of law, and, therefore, assignees of Austin, that they would/not be
disturbed by any assertion of claim upon the part of the United States.
Questions involved in the determination of a suit in equity are not open to reexamination, in any collateral proceeding between the same parties or-thd"r
privies, if the court rendering the decree had jurisdiction of the subjectmatter and of the parties.

This action, in form ejectment, involved the title to an undivided half of a tract of land in the county of Washington,
State of Missouri, containing six hundred and forty acres, part
of a larger tract, containing seven thousand one hundred and
fifty-three arpents, or six thousand and eighty-five acres,
known as the Mine ABreton survey, or as United States survey, numbered 430, made in. the name of Moses Austin, and
dated August 14 and 15, 1817. In conformity -with the instiuctions of the court, the jury returned a verdict for the defendants.
The plaintiffs in error, who were plaintiffs below, introduced
in evidence a certified copy of the foregoing survey; also a
certified copy of a recorded deed of February 15, 1820, by
Moses Austin and wife, whereby the grantors bargained, sold,
and conveyed to James Bryan, Levi Pettibone, and Rufus Pettibone, as tenants in common-one undivided half to Bryan
and an undivided fourth each to the other grantees-' the
whole of that certain tract of land heretofore granted to the
said .31oses Austin by the Spanish government, and confirmed
to him by the government of the United States, containing
7,160 arpents, and being one league square, situated at and near
the Mine a Breton, in the county of Washington and Territory aforesaid [Missouri,] being the only concession from the
Spanish government to the said Moses Austin," &c.; excepting from such conveyance, several parcels, aggregating about

BRYAN v. KENN-ETT.,
Statement of Pacts.

2,500 arpents, and which the grantor had previously conveyed
to other persons.
The deed also provided that-the grantor would not warrant
and defend the premises against a judgment for about $14,000,
which the Bank of St. Louis had obtained in the Superior
Court of the Territory against him, for which debt that bank
held, in addition, a mortgage on part of the premises conveyed;
nor against three judgments in favor of Gamble's estate for
about $1,029; nor against a judgment in favor of Alexander
McNair, for about $450.
They also read in evidence an act of Congress, approved
February 14, 1814, 18 Stat. 16, as follows:
"CyrP. 29. An act to confirm certain land titles in the State of
Missouri.
"Whereas the Baron of Carondelet, governor-general of the
Territory of Louisiana, did, on the fifteenth day of March,
anno Domini seventeen hundred and ninety-seven, instruct
Zenon Trudeau, lieutenant-governor of said Territory, to place
Moses Austin in possession of a league square of land at Mine
A Breton, in said Territory; and
"Whereas the said Moses Austin did, in the year anno
Domini seventeen hundred and ninety-eight, take possession of
the said land by moving upon it with his family, and did improve the same by building dwelling-house, blacksmith shop,
furnace, and other improvements; and
"Whereas the said lieutenant-governor did, on the fourteenth
day of January, seventeen hundred and ninety-nine, order Antone Lulrd, surveyor in said Territory, to survey the said
land and put the said Austin legally in possession of the same,
which survey, numbered fifty-two, containing seven thousand
one hundred and fifty-three arpents and three and two-thirds
feet, was executed by said Antone Lulard, and a certificate of
the same filed by him in November, anno Domini eighteen
hundred; and
"Whereas Don John Ventura Morales, then governor at
New Orleans, did, in thc year of our Lord eighteen hundred

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

and two, in the name of the King of Spain, grant to the said
Moses Austin the land so surveyed and located: Therefore,
"Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives
of the United States of America in Congress aoembled That
the United States hereby release whatever title- they have to
said lands now numbered four hundred and thirty on the plat
in the surveyor-general's office, and in townships thirty-seven
and thirty-eight, range two east, in the county of Washington
and State of Missouri, containing seven thousand one hundred
and fifty-three and thirty-two one hundredths arpents (six
thousand eighty-five and twenty-nine one hundretbs acres), to
the heirs, legal representatives, or assigns of said Moses
Austin, according to their respective interests therein: Provided, however, that this act shall not affect nor impair the
title which any settler or other person may have acquired adverse to the title of said Moses Austin to any portion of said
land."
They also proved that James Bryan, one of the grantees in
the deed of February 15, 1820, intermarried in 1813 with
Emily M. Austin, a daughter of Moses Austin. There were
five children of that marriage, *one of whom, Stephen, was
born July 16, 1814, and died in the succeeding month. Three
others, the present plaintiffs, were born, respectively, December 14, 1815, September 25, 1817', and January 12, 1821 ; while
the remaining one, Elizabeth, was born in 1822 and died in
1833. Moses Austin died in 1821 and James Bryan in 1822.
The widow of the latter intermarried in 1824 with James F.
Perry, of which marriage there were five children, two of
whom died in infancy during the lifetime of their parents, two
others died without having been married, while the remaining
one died in 1815, leaving several children. The surviving
children of these two marriages, and their descendants, are the
only living descendants of Moses Austin.
Upon the foregoing evidence the plaintiffs rested their case.
The defendants offered in evidence a duly certified copy of
the order of Baron de Carondelet, dated March 15, 1797, to
Zenon Trudeau. This paper not being found in the files of

BRYAN v. KENNETT.
Statement of Facts.

the court could not be made a part of the bill of exceptions;
but its import is shown by the preamble of the foregoing act
of Congress.
They also read in evidence the following documents:
1. A copy, certified under the hand and seal of the register
of lands for the State of Missouri, of "the plat of survey No.
52, containing 7,153 arps. 321 p's, in the right of Moses Austin,
as the same appears of record in first part of registre d'arpentage, page 85, Soulard's surveys, together 'with field-notes of
the same ;" and a copy of the record of the grant to Austin,
under date of July 5, 1802, by "Don John Bonaventure
Morales, treasurer of armies, intendant interim of the royal
finances of the provinces of Louisiana and Western Florida,
superintendent, sub-delegate, judge of arrivals, of lands, and
King's domain," whereby was granted to Austin "complete
property, use, and domain of the aforesaid 7,153 arpents 321
feet of land in superficie, according to the results of figures
and measures contained in the plat of survey drawn by said
Soulard," &c. This was accompanied by a copy of the testimony taken in 1808 in support of Austin's claim, from which
it appeared that he took possession of the land embraced in that
grant as early as 1798 and made improvements thereon. 18
Amer. State Papers (3 Public lands), 682. 2. The claim of
Austin, as set out by him upon the United States record of
land titles.
The defendants introduced a large amount of other documentary evidence, which, in the view taken by the court of the
case, it is unnecessary to give in detail. Its object was to show
the execution of a mortgage, under the date of March 11,
1818, by Austin to the Bank of St. Louis, on the land in controversy, for the sum of $15,000; a judgment in the Superior
Court of the Territory of Missouri, in favor of the bank
against Austin for $14,001.85, rendered October 1, 1819 and a
judgment in the same court, in favor of McNair, for $493,94;
executions upon those judgments issuing in 1819, which were
levied upon all the right, title, claim, interest, and property of
Austin in the land embraced in the Mine Breton survey (except three lots of described boundaries), and under which sales

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts..

were had March 21, 1820; a deed by the sheriff, making the
sale to Charles R. Ross, who purchased as agent of the Bank
of St. Louis, and to which no seal or scroll was affixed; duly
recorded deeds from the bank to Charles R. Ross in trust; from
Ross to Simpson, Price, Hammond, and Easton; from Simpson, Hammond, and Easton to Price; from Ross, agent, to
Price; from Price to Smith and others in trust; from the latter, under date of June 29, 1822, to Louis Devotion; the death
of Devotion, and the appointment and qualification of Savage
and Walsh as his administrators; the resignation of Walsh,
and the sale by Savage, as administrator, because of the insufficiency of personalty to meet debts of his intestate, and in conformity with the orders of the County Court of St. Louis
County, having jurisdiction in the premises, of Austin's interest in the land embraced in the Mine Breton survey; its purchase by John Deane; the confirmation of such sale; and the
subsequent conveyance to Deane by the administrator of Devotion on May 28, 1835.
On the first day of April, 1836, Deane, having received
possession under his purchase, exhibited his bill in equity in
the Circuit Court of Washington County, Missouri, against
James F. Perry and Emily, his wife; Stephen Perry and Eliza
Perry; the present plaintiffs in error; and a child, whose name
was alleged to be unknown, but who was averred to have been,
born of the intermarriage of James F. and. Emily-Perry. The
bill alleged that the defendants were out of the jurisdiction of
the court, and residents of the State of Texas; and that all.of
them, except James F. Perry and wife, were under the agf uf
twenty-one years. It gave a detailed history of the title asserted by Deane under the before-mentionic proceedings, allbging, among other other things, that the sheriff who made the
deed for the land sold in 1820 under the foregoing executions.
inadvertently and by mistake omitted to affix a seal or scroll
thereto; that the deed from Austin to James Bryan was without consideration, and was made with the intent, upon the part
of Austin and Bryan, to hinder and delay the creditors of the
grantor; and that Bryan took the conveyance with knowledge
of and subject to the judgments and mortgages held against

BRYAN v. KENNETT.
StAtement of Facts.

Austin by the Bank of St. Louis and MeNair. The prayer of
the bill was, that the defendants in that suit, in whose behalf
an interest in the land was asserted, be compelled by a decree
of court to answer to the complainant for all the right, title
and interest each of them might have in the undivided moiety
of the said tract of land, or "that the right, title and interest
of James Bryan, at the time of his death, and of said James F.
Perry and Emily, his wife, in her right, and of the said William
Bryan, Moses Bryan, Guy Bryan, Stephen Perry, Eliza Perry,
and the child, whose name is unknown, of the said Emily
Perry, in the said undivided moiety of the said tract of land
conveyed by said Moses Austin, by his deed, executed the fifteenth of February, 1820, to said James Bryan as aforesaid, be
vested in your orator, and for such other and further relief as
to the court shall seem just," &c.
The bill was verified by the oath of the complainant, and he
also made affidavit that the defendants (naming them), and the
child, whose name was unknown, of the said Emily Perry, defendants in the bill, were non-residents of the State of Missouri.
On the 26th of July, 1836, an order was made by the court
reciting that the order of publication, previously made by the
clerk in vacation, had been duly published, and a guardian ad
litem, John Brickey, was appointed in behalf of the infant defendants. On the next day, an order was made reciting that
the infant defendants--naming them-come "by their guardian, John Brickey, and file their answer; and the said James
F. Perry, and Emily, his wife, having been notified to appear
at this term, according to law, and answer the bill of the said
complainant, or the same would be taken as confessed, and
having failed to file any exceptions, plea, demurrer or answer
to the bill, it is ordered that the same be taken as 'confessed
against the said James F. Perry and his wife." It was further
ordered and adjudged that the right, title and interest of Perry
and wife in the undivided moiety of the land conveyed by Austin's deed of February 15, 1820, to James Bryan, "be vested
in the said John Deane, the complainant, unless the said James
F. Perry and wife appear at the next term of this court and
file their answer to said bill."

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Faot&.

On the 30th day of November, 1836, the following decree.
was passed:
"And now at this day comes the said John Deane, the complainant, by his solicitor, and the sajd William Bryan, Moses
Bryan, Guy Bryan, Stephen Perry, Eliza Perry, and a child,
whose name is unknown, of the said Emily Bryan, defendants,
by their guardian, John Brickey, and by agreement of the parties aforesaid, it is consented that the bill be taken in lieu of
allegations, and thereupon, neither party requiring a jury, all
and singular the premises are submitted to the court, who doth
find that the matters aforesaid, in form aforesaid in the bill
alleged, are true; and the said James F. Perry and Emily, his
-wife, having failed to appear at this term of the court and file
their answer to the bill of complaint, it is ordered and adjudged
and decreed that the decree heretofore entered in this cause
against them be, and the same is hereby, made final.
"And it is further ordered, adjudged, and decreed that the
right, title, and interest of the said William Bryan, Moses
Bryan, Guy Bryan, Stephen Perry, Eliza Perry, and a child,
whose name is unknown, of the said Emily Bryan, defendants,
in and to the undivided moiety of that certain tract of land
situate in the county of Washington, in this State, heretofore
granted to Moses Austin by the Spanish Government, and confirmed to him by the Government of the United States, containing seven thousand one hundred and sixty arpents, and
being one league square, situate at and near the Mine . Breton
in the county of Washington, excepting such parcels thereof as
the said Moses Austin had prior to the fifteenth day of February, in the year one thousand eight hundred and twenty, sold
and conveyed, and which parcels so excepted are, fourteen
hundred and thirty-two arpents to John Rice Jones, forty-five
arpents to the county of Washington, two hundred and sixteen
arpents to a Mr. Perry, two hundred and forty-three ,rpents to
a Mr. Ruggles, fifty-eight arpents to a Mr. McGready, four
arpents to John Brickey, senior, three hundred and twenty-four
arpents to Mr. Ficklin, forty-five arpents to Mr. McCormick, one
hundred and sixteen arpents to Mr. Brocky, and are described
in the deeds and contracts to said purchasers for the same,

BRYAN v. KENNETT.

187 '

Statement of Facts.

being the moiety conveyed as charged in the bill of complaint
by Moses Austin to James Bryan, by his deed dated the fifteenth
day of February, in the year one thousand eight hundred and
twenty, be vested in the said John Deane the complainant.
"And it is further ordered, adjudged and decreed that the
said defendants recover of the said complainant, John Deane,
the costs and charges in this behalf expended.
"And it is further ordered, adjudged and decreed that the
said William Bryan, Moses Bryan, Guy Bryan, Stephen Perry,
Eliza Perry, and a child, whose name is unknown, of the said
Emily Bryan, respectively, be allowed each the time of six
months after he or she respectively comes of age to appear and
show cause against this decree entered as aforesaid against
'
them.
The present action was defended upon the following grounds:
1. That the defendants and those under whom they claim had
been in the open, continuous adverse possession of the premises
in controversy for more than thirty years prior to the commencement of the action. 2. That the equitable title to the
premises emanated from the government of the United States
on the 10th of April 1803 ; that the premises have not been in
possession of the plaintiffs, or of any one under whom they
claim, for a period of time exceeding. thirty years prior to
February 27, 1874, nor have plaintiffs, during that period, paid
taxes thereon, but they have been paid by defendants and
those under whom they claim; that on the 10th day of June,
1814, all title, both legal and equitable, to said premises passed
from the United States, and that no action to recover the same
has been instituted, as provided by law, prior to the institution
of the present suit. 3. That the decree in the equity suit instituted on the 1st day of April, 1836, by John Deane, who
then had actual possession of the premises, and under whom
the defendants claim, estops the plaintiffs from maintaining
their action and from claiming under the deed from Moses
Austin to James Bryan, Levi Pettibone, and Rufus Pettibone
any interest or estate in the premises adverse to said defendants.
Without any reference to the defence based upon adverse

OCTOBER TERM, 3884.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

possession, the jury were instructed to find, and did find, a
verdict for the defendants. A general exception was taken by
the plaintiffs to the "instructions" given by the court. Judgment was rendered on the verdict. The plaintiffs sued out this
writ of error.
Xirl. HenryH. Denison for plaintiffs in error.-I. Austin had
no title in the league square, Mine a Breton, which could be
subjected to levy and execition. This court has held that the
act of March 26, 1804, annulled all grants included in the
treaties made subsequent'to the treaty of St. fldefonso. Foster
v. -Neilson, 2 Pet. 253, affirmed in Garciav. Zee, 12 Pet. 511;
United Staies v. Reynes, 9 How. 127; United States v. 1)'Auterine, 10 How. 609; Uh2ited ASttes v. Philadelphia and New
Orleans,11 How. 609; De fXontault v. United States, 12 How.
47; United States v. Zynde, 11 Wall. 632. Those who come in
under a void grant can acquire nothing. Polk's lessee v.
SFfendell, 5 Wheat. 293; United States v. Arredondo, 6 Pet;
691, 731 ; Sampeyreac v. United tates, 7 Pet. 222, 241.-l. If
the act of April 12, 1814, embraced the Morales grant, it could
only confirm the equitable title. The legal title still remained
in the government. Papin v. Hines, 23 Missouri, 274.-IIL
But the Austin claim was not confirmed .by that act. Burgess
v. Gray, 16 How. 48.-IV. It was essential to the validity of
an execution issuing out of the Superior Court that it should
be under a seal purporting to be the seal of the Superior Court
for the Circuit. On this point the counsel quoted sundry laws
of Missouri.-V. The executions under which the sale of -the
Mine A Breton survey was made were without seals, and void.
A levy of a void execution is void, especially when made on
lands which the judgment debtor held by a void concession.
Until an inchoate title be confirmed it has no standing in a
court of equity. Burgess v. Gray,15 Missouri, 220; Insurance
Co. v. Hadlock, 6 WalL 556. VI. The sheriff's sale was further
void as an attempt by the bank by means of a levy and execution to deprive a mortgagor of his equity of redemption and
of his rights underthe mortgage contract. JfcNair v. O'Fallon,
8 Missouri, 188. A judgment brought collaterally before th-,

BRYAN v. KENNETT.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

court, may be shown to be void upon its face. Webster v. Reid,
.11 How. 437; Abee v. Ward, 8 Mass. 79; .-Miller v. Handy,
40 Ill. 448.-VII. The sheriff's deed to Ross was void for
want of seal. fo reau, v. Dethemendy, 18 Missouri, 522. A
court of equity cannot relieve against this defective execution.
Bright v. Boyd, 1 Story, 478. See also .forea v. Branham,
27Missouri, 351; Grimaley v. Riley, 5 Missouri, 280; W-alker v.
KYeile, '8 Missouri, 301; Hdrley v. Ramsey, 49 Missouri, 309.VIII. The sheriff's deed is also void for want of seal to the
clerk's certificate. Allen v. _Y.os, 27 Missouri, 354; Alden v.
.Ying, 35 Missouri, 216; Adams v. Buchanan,49 Missouri, 64;
Ryan v. Carr, 46 Missouri, 483; Hammond v. Coleman, 4
Missouri, App. 307.-IX. The deed of Price to Ross is inoperative and void. The doctrine is well settled, in relation to
solemn instruments under seal, that the principal will only be
bound where he is both in form and substance the contracting
party. It must be his deed. If it be the deed of the agent
only, it will neither pass the title of the principal, nor bind him
as a covenantor. Townsend v. Coming, 23 Wend. 435. See also
Wood v. Goodridge, 6 Cush. 117; Thurman v. Cameron, 24
Wend. 87. The addition to his name of the words "Attorney
of Henry L. Sheldon" was a mere descriptio persona. The
fact that in truth he was the attorney orprocuradorof Sheldon
cannot, by the most liberal interpretation, impart to the instrument executed by Chase the character of a conveyance by
Sheldon. Chase might as well have described himself as of
any other profession or occupation belonging to him as that of
attorney of Sheldon. Echols v. Cheney, 28 Cal. 157. See also
Hfa7per v..Hampton, 1 H. & J. 622, 709; Elwell v. Shaw, 16
Mass. 42; Barger v. 3filler, 4 Wash. G. C. 280; Bob5 v.
Barnum, 59 Missouri, 394. Not being under the corporate
seal of the bank it is void.-X. It follows that Price, holding
under a void deed, and having no title, could convey none.
Hiney v. Thomas, 36 Missouri, 377; Elliott v. rei'eol, 1
McLean, 1.-XI. The notice on non-resident minors in Deane
v. Bryan was insufficient.-XII. Brickey's consent as guardian
that the allegations of the bill might be taken as confessed
against non-resident minor defendants was made without

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.

,

Opinion of the Court.

power.

litekfld v. Buswell, 5 How. Pr. 341; .Revely v.

Skinner, 33 Missouri, 98.-XIII. No decree can be taken
against a minor on his own admissions or those of,his guardian
ad litem.
X..

George D. 1?eynold8 for defendant in error.

MR. JusTiCE HARzLw delivered the opinion of the court. He
recited the facts, as above stated, and continued:
The objection that the record does not show-a sufficient
exception, upon the part of plaintiffs, to the instructions
given to the jury, cannot be sustained. The series of propositions announced by the dourt, although styled instructions, embodies nothing more than the reasons that induced it to direct
a verdict for the defendants. These propositions submitted no
fact for the determination of the jury; for, they were accompanied by a peremptory instruction to return a verdict for the
defendants. As the bill of exceptions contains all the evidence,
and, in addition, sets forth the exceptions reserved by the plaintiffs, in the progress of the trial, to the admission of testimony,
it is competent for this court to determine whether the exceptions were well taken, and, also, whether there was error in
directing a verdict for the defendants. If, upon all the evidence, excluding such as was incompetent, plaintiffs were entitled to go to the jury-and such is the contention here-there
was error of law in instructing them to find for the defendants.
We proceed, therefore, to consider such of the questions argued
by counsel as are deemed necessary to the determination of
the case.
By an act of Cqngress, approved April 12, 1814, ch. 52,
3 Stat. 121, provision.is made for the confirmation of the claims
of every person or persons, or the legal representatives of any
person or persons, claiming lands in the State of Louisiana, or
the Territory of Missouri, by virtue of any incomplete French
or Spanish grant or concession, or any wairant or order of survey, which was "g~anted prior to the 25th of December, 1803,
for lands lying within that part of the State of Louisiana
which composed the late Territory of Orleans, or which was

BRYAN v. KENNETT.
Opinion of the Cobrt.

granted for lands lying within-the Territory of Missouri before
the 10th day of March, 1804. In behalf of the plaintiffs it is
contended that-the Spanish grant of 1802, recited in the preamble of the act of February 14,1874, was void, because made
subsequent to the treaty of St. Ildefonso, concluded October 1,
1800, between Spain and France; Act of March 26, 1804,
2.Stat. 287, ch. 38, § 14; 1Foster v. Neil8on, 2 Pet. 253, 304;
that, i the grant to Austin was an incomplete grant, and,
therefoje, embraced by the act of 1814, that act operated only
to confirm to- him -the equitable title to the land, the legal title
remaining in the United States until the passage of the act of
Febrory 14, 1874; that the equitable title passe4 *nly under
-by the act of
the restrictions and in the manner pwsries'
1814; that, so far from Austin acquiring the legal title, the
board of commissioners, organized underthe act of Congress,
found that his title was not a grant made andicompleted prior
to the tieaty of St. ildefonso, 17, American State Papers
(2 Public Lands), 678; 18 lb. (3 Public Lands), 671; Burge8
v. Gray, 16 How. 48; that, for these reasons, Austin did not, at the date of the before-mentioned judgments, have any title
which could be mortgaged or which was subject to levy and
sale under execution; and, consequently, that all the proceedings which had for their object to acquire or reach his interest in the Mine ABreton survey are inoperative to defeat
their rights under the act of February 14, 1874, by which,
for the first time, the United States parted with the legal
title.
It is not necessary, in this case, that we should define the
precise nature and extent of the interest acquired: by Austin in
this land, prior to or apart from the'grant of 1802 by Morales,
then governor at New Orleans. The order of the governorgeneral of the Territory of Louisiana, in 1797, that he be placed
in possession; his taking possession of the land and improving
it in 1798; the orders of the lieutenant-governor of the Territory, in 1799, that the land be surveyed and Austin put legally
in possession, followed by the execution of that order, and the
recording of the certificate vf survey-all prior to the treaty
of St. Ildefonso-certainly operated to give Austin a property

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

interest in the land, capable (even if the grant of 1802 was
void) of being made a complete grant, with the consent of the
United States. In SoulaMr v. United States, 4: Pet. 511, it was
said by Chief Justice Marshall, that, in the treaty by which
Louisiana was acquired, the United States stipulated that the
inhabitants of the ceded territory should be protected in the
free enjoyment of their property; that the term "property,"
as applied to lands, comprehends every species of title, inchoate
or complete, and embraces rights which lie in contract, executory as well as executed ; and that, in this respect, the relation of
the inhabitants to their government was not changed; the new
government taking the place of that which had passed away.
In Str'other v. Lucas, 12 Pet. 410, 434-5, which involved the
,title to real estate in St. Louii, the court said that "the State
in which the premises are situated was formerly a part of the
territory, first of France, next of Spain, then of France, who
ceded it to the United States by the treaty of 1803, in full
propriety, sovereignty and dominion, as she had acquired and
held it, 2'Pet. 301; by which this government .put itself in
place of the former sovereigns and became invested with all
'their rights, subject to their concomitant obligations to the inhabitants ;" that "this court has defined property to be any right,
legal or equitable, inceptive, inchoate or perfect, which, before
the treaty with France in 1803, or with Spain in 1819, had so
attached to any piece or tract of land, great or small, as to
affect the conscience of the former sovereign 'with a trust,'
and make him a trustee for an individual, according to the law
of nations, of the sovereign himself, the local usage or custom
of the colony or, district; according to the principles of justice
and rules of equity;" and that "the term 'grant,' in a treaty,
comprehends not only those which are made in form, but also
any concession, warrant, order, or permission to survey, possess or settle, whether evidenced by writing or parol or presumed from possession." So in Hornsby v. United States, 10
Wall. 224, 242, it was said that by the term "property," as
applied to lands, all titles are embraced, legal or equitable,
perfect or imperfect. * See also Carpenter v. Rannels, 19 WalL
138, 141; .X'orton v. NSebraska, 21 Wall. 660.

BRYAN v. KENNETT.
Opinion of the Court.

And in -Landesv. Perkins, 12 Missouri, 238, the court said:
"It is a matter of history, of which this court will take judicial notice, that, at the time of the cession of Louisiana to the
United States, in that portion of the territory of which this
State is composed, nineteen-twentieths of the titles to lands
were like that involved in this case prior to its confirmation.
There were very few complete grants." M ost of the inhabitants were too poor to defray the expenses attending the completion of their titles, but they had faith in their government
and rested as quietly under their inchoate titles as though they
had been perfect. As early as October, 1804, we find the legislature speaking of freeholders and authorizing executions
against lands and tenements. There being so few complete
titles, the legislatures, in subjecting lands and tenements generally to execution, must -have contemplated a seizure and sale of
those incomplete titles which existed under the Spanish Government. At the date of the act above referred to, no titles
had been confirmed by the United States. An instance is not
recollected in which a question has been made as to the liability of such titles as Clamorgan's under the Spanish government to sale under execution. It is believed that such titles
have been made the subject of judicial sales without question
ever since the change of government."
That such was the law of Missouri is recognized by this
court in Landes v. Brant,10 How. 348, 370-1, where, among
other things, referring to a title derived from the Spanish government, and confirmation of which was obtained from a board
of commissioners, acting under the authority of the United
States, it was said: "The imperfect title as then filed was subject to seizure and sale by execution; the ultimate perfect title
demanded and granted was a confirmation and sanction by the
political power of the imperfect title, and gave it complete
legal validity."
We are of opinion, therefore, that, even upon the assumption
that the Spanish grant of 1802 was void, the interest which
Austin acquired by the concession of 1797, the order of survey,
and the recorded survey of 1799, in connection with his actual
possession, taken under competent authority, was a property
VOL. cx-13

OCTOBER. TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

right which, at least as between private parties, could be transferred by mortgage or be reached by judicial pr6cess.
But it is contended that the defendants cannot claim title
under the before-mentioned proceedings in the courts of the
Territory and State of 'Missouri, and thereby defeat the, rights
of the plaintiffs under Austin's deed of 1820, because: 1. It
was not competent for the bank to have Austin's interest sold
under execution on a judgment,- while it held a mortgage on
part of the premises sold, and thus cut off his right of redemption ; 2. The sheriff's deed to -Ross was void for want of a seal
or scroll affixed thereto. 1 Terri. Stats. Missouri, 120, § 45;
.oreau v. Detchemendy, 18 Missouri, 522; Allen v. .08s, 27
Missouri, 354:; X3oreau v. Detchemendy, 41 Missouri, 41;
Grinley v. Riley, 5 Missouri, 280 ; Barley v. Ramwey, 49 Missouri, 309; 3. The deed from the bank was not under its corporate seals and these matters all appearing upon the face of
the record in the suit. of Deazne v. Bryan, instituted in 1836, no
title passed by the decree therein, even if the court rendering
it had jurisdiction. These propositions were necessarily involved in the determination of that suit, and, so far as they
impeach the correctness of that adjudication, are not- open to
re-examination, in any collateral proceeding between the same
parties or their privies, provided the court which rendered the
decree had jurisdiction' of the subject-iatter and of the
parties.
Its jurisdiction to pass any final decree affecting the rights
of non-resident minors is assailed only upon grounds to be now
stated.
1. It is contended that there was no authority, under the
laws of Missouri, to proceed against the non-resident minors by
publication. Counsel for the plaintiffs refers to the act of
March 117, 1835, regulating the practice at law in the courts of
Missouri, and calls attention to the fact that, while it provides
for actual service of process upon infants, no provision is made
for service upon non-resident defendants by publication. And
referring to the act of March 7, i835, regulating the practice
in chancery, he insists that, while a mode is therein prescribed
for the service of process upon resident and non-resident de-

BRYAN v. KENNETT.
Opinion of the Court.

fendants, no provision is made for service on non-resident
minors. It is not questioned that, under the laws of Missouri,
adult non-resident defendants in equity suits concerning real
estate, may be proceeded against by publication in such cases
as that instituted by Deane in 1836; but it is contended that
non-resident infants could not be brought before the court in
that mode. In this view we do not concur. .It appears from
the Missouri statutes, that the court which determined Deane's
suit was a court of record, having exclusive original jurisdiction,
in tho county in which it was -heldas a courtof equityf-. "in all
cases where adequate relief "cann6t be had by the ordinary
course of proceedings atlaw," with authority "to proceed
therein according to the rules, usage and practice of courts of
equity, and to enforce their decrees by execution, or in any
manner proper for a court of chancery ;" also, that "suits in
equity concerning real estate, or whereby the same may be
affected, shall be brought in the county within which such real
estate, or a greater part thereof, is situate," and, in any county,
"if all the defendants are non-residents;" and further, that
"in all cases where the court may decree the conveyance of
real estate, or the delivery of personal property, they may, by
decree, pass the title of such property without any act to be
done on the part of the defendants, when in their judgment it
shall be proper; and may issue a writ of possession, if necessary,
to put the party entitled into possession of such real or personal
property, or may proceed by attachment or sequestration."
Rev. Stat. Mo. 1835 (2d Edit. 1840),. Title "Courts," p. 155;
Ib. Title "Practice in Chancery," art. 1, §§ 1 and 2; art.
6,§7.
By the same statute, provision is made for proceeding against
defendants who are non-residents of the State, by publication,
where the complainant, or any one for him, files with his bill
an affidavit, stating their non-residence. Upon such affidavit
being filed, the court, or the clerk, in vacation, was authorized
to make an order, directed to such non-residents, notifying
them of the commencement of the suit, stating the substance
of the allegations and prayer of the bill, and requiring them to
appear on a day to be therein named (allowing sufficient time

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

for publication) and answer the same, or the bill will be taken
as confessed. Rev. Stat. Mo. 1835, Title "Practice in Chancery," art. 1, § '. Similar proceedings were prescribed as to
persons interested in the subject-matter of the bill, whose
names appeared, from the verified allegations of the bill, to be
unknown to the complainant. Ib. % 10, 11. While our
attention has not been called to any statute of Missouri in
force when Deane's suit was instituted, which, in terms,
authorized publication against non-resident minors, there was
no exception in their favor from the provision which permits
that mode of bringing non-resident defendants before the court.
They could be proceeded against by publication whenever the
statute permitted such process against adults. 1 Daniell Ch.
Prac. 164, 659, ch. 15, § 2. The provision authorizing courts
of equity to proceed according to the rules, usage and practice
of courts of chancery, had reference to the rules and practice
which obtained in the English courts of chancery. Ruky v.
Strother, 11 Missouri, 411; Hendrick.8 v. fo-Lean, 18 Ib. 32;
Creathv. Smith, 20 Ib. 113. In conformity with that practice,
the court, in the case of Deanev. Bryan, appointed a guardian
ad litem to defend the suit for the non-resident infant defendants. 1 Daniell Oh. Prac. "160 to 163. And the record shows
that he made defence.
2. But it is claimed that the decree was based upon the admissions by the guardian ad litemn of the truth of the allegations
of the bill, and was, for that reason, void. Without stopping
to comment upon the authorities which counsel cite in support
of this position, some of which hold that decrees. _pro confesso
against infants are erroneous, not that they are subject on that
ground to collateral attack as void, it is sufficient to say
that the decree under examination was not of the character
stated. The contention to the contrary rests entirely upon
the recital in the decree, that, "by agreement of the parties
it is consented that the bill be taken in lieu of allegations." The meaning of those words is shown by reference
to the before-mentioned act regulating the practice in chancery,
by which it is provided, that, "within such time as the court
shall require, before the hearing of a cause at issue, each party

BRYAN v. KENNETT.
Opinion of the Court.

shall set down distinctly the allegations made by him and
denied by the other party, or which, by the course of proceedings in chancery, he is required to support by his testimony,
and issues shall be made thereon accordingly, Rev. Stat. Mo.
1835, Title "Practice in Ohancery," art. 3, § 1; that the testimony shall be confined to the issue thus made, Ib.§ 2; and
that "the trial of all issues and matters of fact shall be by
jury, or, if neither party require a jury, by the court, and the
allegations shall be disposed of by a general or special verdict
before a final decree shall be made, except such as shall be expressly decided by the court to be immaterial or irrelevant to
the merits of the cause." Ib.§ 5. The consent given was, not
that the court might take the allegations of the bill to be true,
but only that the "bill be taken in lieu of allegations," thereby
dispensing .with the requirement of the statute that the complainant should formally "set down" the material allegations
of his bill. The effect of the consent was to place the complainant under the necessity, imposed by statute as well as by
the established rules in equity practice, of proving every allegation of fact necessary to authorize a decree against the nonresident infants. Nothing was confessed by the guardian
ad litem, but, a jury being waived, the court found the matters
alleged in the bill to be true, and decreed accordingly. That
the evidence upon which the court acted does not appear in
the record, is, perhaps, because the suit was heard upon oral
testimony in connection with the official documents and records
referred to in the bill. Ib.§ 7.
We have, then, a final decree of a court of superior general
jurisdiction, rendered in a suit that involved the title to a tract
of land, embracing the premises in controversy, and situate in
the county in which the court was held; in which suit the
present plaintiffs, as non-resident minors, were parties defendant, having been brought, in the mode prescribed by the local
law, before the court, by publication, and having made defence
by guardian ad litem duly appointed, and by which decree it
was adjudged that the right, title, and interest of the present
plaintiffs and others, in the said tract, be vested in the complainant Deane, under whom the present defendants hold pos-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

session. The decree, as we have seen, passed the title without
any conveyance from the nrn-resident defendants, for, by its
terms whatever title they held was vested in the complainant
Deane. According to the settled principles of law, the plaintiffs are thereby estopped from asserting, in this collateral
proceeding, any interest in the premises in controversy adverse
to that of the defendants. It is not subject to collateral attack,
because there is nothing on the face of the record which shows
any want of jurisdiction in the court that rehdered it. It was
and is conclusive as to all the parties to that suit, and their
privies,-until reversed or modified on appeal, or unless, in
proper time, it-had been impeached, in some direct proceeding,
and set 1tide or annulled.
One other question remains to be considered. Upon the
supposition that Austin took nothing by the grant of 1802,
and at most had but an equitable interest in the land, capable
of being enlarged into a complete title in the mode prescribed
by the acts of Congress, the plaintiffs claim that the rights of
the United States were unaffected by any proceedings between
pivate "persons involving Austin's title; and, consequently,
that the legal title passed to them under that clause of the act
of February 14, 1874, which releases whatever title the United
States may have, "to the heirs, legal representatives, or assigns
of said Moses Austin." In other words, that the decree in
1836 does not preclude them from accepting from the govern.ment the legal title to the preiqjses in controversy. We have
seen that the propjey interest of Austin, whatever it -was,
passed, before the act 6f 1874, under valid judicial proceedings,
to others than the present plaintiffs. If Congress intended to
pass the title of the government to the heirs simply, there was
no necessity to include his "legal representatives or assigns."
But there could have been no such intention; for it was common knowledge, as it was the settled law, -that such inchoate
interest or title as Austin acquired from the Spanish government, prior to October 1, 1800, could, as between private persons, be transferred or reached by judicial process. We concur
with the court below in holding that Congress intended, by the
act of 1874, to recognize the claim of Austin arising from the

MARKET COMPANY v. KELLY.

199

Syllabus.

Concession, survey and grant recited in its preamble, and to
release to the assignee of such claim the remaining title (if any
such there was) of the United States. And those who purchased,
under the proceedings referred to, were assignees within the
meaning of the act. There was no purpose to disturb their title
or possession. On the contrary, the sole object of this legislation, so -far as it may be ascertained from the debates in Congress, was to assure those who thus acquired possession, whether
by contract or by operation of law, that they would not be disturbed by any assertion of claim upon the paxt of the United
States. It originated with the representatives in Congress from
Missouri, whose avowed purpose was to protect the interests of
their immediate constituents. The necessity of this act arose
from a then recent opinion of the Commissioner of the General
Land Office, that the legal title to the land within the Austin
claim was still in the United States. In order to quiet the
fears of those "who have been in possession for half a century,
claiming the land adversely against everybody, as well as the
United States," the act of 1874 was passed. It had no other object. Cong Rec., Vol. 2, Pt. 1, 43d Cong., ist Sess. 1874, pp.
716, 910.

There is no error in the record, and

T ejugmene i8a
qf

ed.

NORTHERN LIBERTY MARKET C03PANY v. KELLY.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME 0ODRT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUIMIA.
Submitted January 5, 188.-Decided January 19, 1885.

A market-house company, incorporated for twenty years, with power to purchase, hold and convey any real or personal estate necessary to enable it to
carry on its business, built a market house on land owned by it in fee
simple, and sold by public auction leases for ninety-nine years. renewable
forever, of stalls therein at a specified rent. The highest bidder for one of
the stalls gave the corporation several promissory notes in part payment for
the option of that stall, received such a lease, and took and kept possession of

the stall ; and afterwards gave it a note for a less sum, in compromise of

