CALIFORNIA PAYING CO. v. MOLITOR.
Syllabus.

all, and nothing had been known but the beginning corner, the
field notes would have furnished the only guide for locating
the survey. _ The position of that line being known, it controlled the survey only in respect to that line, which required
the sccond line to be extended sufficiently to reach it: But if
the two hackberry trees, in that line, were also identified as the
true northeast corner, then the position of the north line, and
the length of the first course, would be controlled by those
trees.
We think there was error in not putting it to the jury with
sufficient distinctness, that the course and distance of the first
two lines of the survey must govern, if the evidence was not
sufficient to fix the location of the northern line by identifying the two hackberries with those called for,in the field notes
for the northeast corner of the survey, or by some other marks
or monuments.
Thejudgment mu8t be revered, with&direoti=8 to grant a
new tria.

CALIFORNIA ARTIFICIAL STONE PAVING COMPANY v. MOLITOR.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

SAME v. SAME.
APPEAL FROM THE SAME COURT.
Submitted November 25, 1884. -Declded March 2, 1885.

A certificate of division of opinion under ยง 652 Rev. Stat., can be resorted to
only when "a question" has occurred on which the judges have diffared,
and where "the point" of disagreement may be distinctly stated.
It cannot be resorted to for the purpose of presenting questions of fact, or
mixed questions of fact and law, or a difference of opinion on the general
case.

VOL. Cx-89

OCTOBER TE]RM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.
When there is reasonable ground to doubt as to the wrongfulness of the conduct
of a defendant in a suit in equity to prevent the infringement of a patent,
the process of contempt should not be resorted to to enforce the plaintiff's
rights.
Plaintiff obtained a decree in equity against defendant as an infringer of plaintiff's rIghts under a patent for an improvement in pavements. Defendant
continued to lay pavements. Plaintiff proceeded against him for contempt,
alleging that he was still using plaintiff's process. Defendant denied the
allegation, and answered that he was using a process different from that
which had been adjudged to be an infringement. On this question there was
a division of opinion inthe court below. Hfeld, That the process of contempt
is not an appropriate remedy.

'This was a suit to enjoin against the use of a patented invention and for an order to show cause why defendant should
not be punished for contempt. The facts which make the case
are stated inthe opinion of the court.
-r.

XAE.
A. Wheaton for plaintiff in error and appellant.

hr.John I. Boone and -Y. E. O.
error and appellee.

arble for defendant in

Mu.JusTIcE BTADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.

A bill was filed by the appellant in this case against the
appellee. complaining that the latter had infrihged, and continued to infringe, certain letters patent granted to one John
J. Schillinger, and which had been assigned for the State of
California to the complainant. The patent was for an improvement in concrete pavement, and was originally issued
July 19, 1870, and reissued May 2, 1871. The improvement,
as described in the reissued patent, consisted in laying the
pavement in detached blocks, separated from each other by
strips of tar-paper, or other suitable material, so as to prevent
the blocks from adhering to each other. As stated in the
specification, "the paper constitutes a tight water-proof joint,
but it allows the several blocks to heave separately from the
effects of frost, or to be raised or removed separately, whenever
occasion may require, without injury to the adjacent7 blocks."
Prior to this invention, it seems, from the statement of facts

CALIFORNIA PAVING CO. v. MOLITOR.
Opinion of the Court.

made by the court, that concrete pavements had been made in
one continuous sheet, without being divided into blocks, whence
they were liable to crack in irregular directions, and to break up
in such a manner as to render them useless. The specification
of the reissued patent contained the following clause: "In such
cases, however, where cheapness is an object, the tar-paper may
be omitted, and the blocks formed without interposing anything between their joints as previously described. In this
latter case the joints soon fill up with sand or dust, and.the
pavement is rendered sufficiently tight for many purposes,
while the blocks are detached from each other, and can be
taken up and relaid, 6ach independent of the adjoining
blocks:" but this clause had been disclaimed by filing a disclaimer in the Patent Office. The patent had two claims, as
follows:
"1. A concrete pavement laid in detached blocks or sections,
substantially in the manner shown and described.
"2. The arrangement of tar-paper, or its equivalent, between
adjoining blocks of concrete, substantially as and for the purposes set forth."
The defendant answered the bill,,denying the validity of the
patent and denying infringement, and declaring that the concrete pavements made by him were made under and in accordance with certain letters patent granted to one J. B. Hurlburt,
April 20, 1875, the pirocess of which is described in the answer,
as follows:
"The said Hurlburt invention is a novel method of forming
blocks of artifical stone or cement pavement, whereby they are
prevented from becoming uneven by sinking below or rising
above a common plane, and consists in bevelling the edges of
the blocks so that they will measure more across their under
side in one direction and less across their upper side than across
their under side in the other or opposite direction; and also
consists in the novel construction of a forming frame whereby
the blocks are bevelled as devised by using the different sides of
the frame alternately; and also in the novel construction of a
parting strip, whereby the colors are kept separate, showing a
straight line between the blocks and while forming their edges
I

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

in actual contaotj the same strip being of great service to rest
a straight edgempon while bevelling the block in process of formation, and that by said invention the process of laying cement
pavements saves from 10 to 15 per cent. in cost of labor over
any~pther known process, entirely dispenses with tar-paper or
any equivalent and all other expensive superfluities, and makes
a close-bevelled joint, it being impossible to raise, or attempt to
raise, any separate piece of work without chiselling and digging
and materially injuring adjacent work."
What the proof was as to the actual process empkyed by
the defendant, whether it strictly accorded with Hurlburt's plan
or not, does not distinctly appear. The appellee's counsel in
his brief states that the respondent was originally adjudged to
have infringed the rights secured by the patent, by reason of
having pressed into the joints made by the cutting of the large
sections into blocks with a trowel, a fine concrete which was
held to be the equivalent of the tar-paper, as it accomplished,
the objects claimed to be gained by the patented invention,
viz., producing a suitably tight joint and yet allowing the blocks
to be raised separately without affecting the block adjacent
thereto, and allowed the several blocks to heave separately
from the effects of frost. But this fact is not shown by the
record before us, and we are in the dark as to what particular
form Qf pavement was adjudged by the court to have been an
infringement of the patent sued on. We of'ly know that, proofs
havinig been taken and the cause heard, the Circuit Court, on
September 10, 1881, decreed as follows:
"That the reissued letters patent No.4364; granted and issued
on the 2d day of May, A.D. 1871, to John J. Schillinger, of
New York, being the patent referred to in the bill of complaint
herein, are good and valid in law. . . . That the .said defendant, Charles A. Molitor, has infringed said reissued letters
.patent, and upon the exclusive rights of the complainant under
the same, that is to say, by making or selling one or more artificial
concrete cement pavements within the State of California, and
while the complainant was the owner of said reissued letters
patentas charged in said bill of complaint.

.

. . And that a

perpetual injunction be issued in this suit against the said de-

CALIFORNIA PAVING CO. v. MOLITOR.
Opinion of the Cour.

fendant, Charles A. Molitor, restraining him, his agents, clerks,
servants, and all claiming or holding under or through him,
from making, selling, or using, or in any manner disposing of
any artificial stqne-block pavements embracing the invention
and improvements described in the said reissued letters patent,
pursuant to the prayer of the said bill of complaint."
Had the defendant continued to make concrete pavements in
the manner set up in his answer, or in the manner in which it
was proved he did make them, and which the court decided to
be an infringement, there could have been no doubt that he
would have violated the decree; but, it would seem, that he
varied his mode of making the pavement by ceasing to make
it in separate and detached blocks, and only making a mark or
indentation on the surface whilst in a plastic state with a trowel
or marker extending to a depth of from one-eighth of an inch
to an inch, and thus giving the pavement the appearance
of being made in detached blocks, and, in fact, answering all
the purposes of detached blocks, the crease on the surface being sufficient to produce the results obtained by Schillinger's
process.
In October, 1883, more than two years after the decree was
entered, the complainant obtained a rule on the defendant to
show cause why he should not be punished for a contempt of
court in disobeying the decree; the alleged contempt consisting
of .the construction by the defendant of concrete pavements in
the manner last mentioned, to wit, at Redwood City, in San
Mateo County. Of course, the question was at once raised
whether the process now used by the defendant was an infringement of the patent. The judges being opposed in opinion, a
decree was made in conformity with that of the Circuit judge,
declaring that the pavements thus constructed by the defendant did not infringe the patent, that there was no violation of
the injunction, and that the order to show cause be discharged.
A certificate was thereupon made, showing the points on which
the judges disagreed, and the cause has been brought here both
by appeal and by writ of error-brought in both ways, as
counsel state, because of the uncertainty as to which was the
right method.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

For the purpose of showing how the points of disagreement
arose, and of furnishing materials for deciding them, the cirtificate exhibits the record and facts upon which (it is stated)
the matter was heard 'below, consisting of1st. The bill, answer, replication, decree and injunction, and
the order to show cause why the defendant should not be
punished for contempt.
2d. A statement of facts deduced by the court below from
the evidence in the case, and the report of a master. This
statement embraces a copy of the reissued patent.of Schillinger,
with the drawings annexed thereto, and a statement deduced
from the testimony, describing amongst other things, the manner in which the defendant, after the entry of the decree, constructed a certain pavement in Redwood City, to wit, substantially as before mentioned. The statement closes with the
following declaration, to wit:
"While the blocks laid in strict accordance with the specifications in the Schillinger patent can be more readily taken up,
still the cutting and marking, or the mere marking of the surface with the marker alone, as described, affords, to a very
large extent, the advantages mentioned obtained by the use of
the Schillinger patent, the additional cutting with the trowel,
during the process of formation, to a greater or less extent, increasing those advantages. The Exhibit C, offered as follows,
is a photograph of the sidewalk as laid by defendant Molitor,
claimed to be an infringement of the patent in question."
The photograph exhibit is annexed to the statement.
The certificate then concludes as follows:
"At the hearing of said order to show cause, at the present
term of the court, upon said record, and upon the facts hereinbefore stated, there occurred as questions arising thereon"1. Whether the laying of said concrete pavement of plastic
material on the ground in the manner stated, and dividing it
into smaller blocks upon the surface by cutting across the surface of the larger blocks with a trowel, and afterwards running
the marker along the line of the cutting with the trowel, in all
respects as hereinbefore stated, constitutes an infringement of
the patent to Schillinger set out in this certificateI

CALIFORNIA PAVING CO. v. MOLITOR.
Opinion of the Court.

"2. Whether the laying of the said concrete pavement of
plastic material on the -ground in the manner stated, and dividing it into smaller blocks upon the surface, by cutting across
the surface of the laiger blocks by running the marker, without any other cutting with a trowel or other intrument than
the marker described, across the blocks, on a line previously
marked, as a guide, in all respects in the manner as hereinbefore stated, thereby controlling the line of cracking, and obtaining in a greater or less degree the advantages pertaining
and belonging to the pavements laid in all respects in accordance
with the specifications of said Schillinger patent, constitutes an
infringement of said patent?
"13., Whether the defendant Molitor, by constructing the
said pavement in all respects in the manner hereinbefore stated,
is guilty of violating the injunction granted and made perpetual by the decree in this case?
"Upon which said several questions and upon each of them'
the judges were divided in opinion."
These are the-questions which we are no* called upon to
answer.
We are. met, however, at the outset, by a preliminary question, to wit, whether the points thus presented by the certificate of the judges below come within the meaning of the statute
which authorizes this court to decide questions of law on which
the judges of the Circirt Court are opposed in opinion. It is
not a difference of opinion on the general case whibh may be
thus certified. Such a difference would properly-result ina decree for the defendant, or party holding the negative, subject
to an appeal to this court in the ordinary course, It is only a.
difference on a special point of law which can be distinctly
stated, that may be certified to this court under the statute.
ยง 652 Rev. Stat. declares that when ajudgment or" decree is
entered in a civil suit, in a circuit court held by two judges,
in the trial or hearing whereof any qumtion has occurred upon
which the opinions of the judges were.opposed, tlheyoint upon
whiclh they so disagreed shall be stated and certified, &c. The
language is copied from the act of April 29, 1802, ยง 6, 2 Stat.
159, and shows that a certificate can only be resorted to when

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

"a question" has occurred on which the judges have differed,
and where "the point" of disagreenlent may be distinctly
stated. This court has fTequently held that the "question"
referred to must be a question of law, and must be capable of
being presented in a single point. Chief Justice Marshall, in
Wayman v. Southard, 10 Wheat. 1, 20, said:, "The law which
empowers this court to take ognizance of questions adjourned
from a circuit, gives jurisdiction over the single point on which
the judges were divided, not over the whole cause." In
JDennistoun v. Stewart, 18 How. 565, the matter is excamined
with precision. In that case the judges differed in opinion as
to the charge which should be given to the jury upon the
evidence adduced. The evidence was set forth in the certificate, and the points upon which the judges differed as to the
charge to be given were stated. The court, speaking by Mr.
Justice Daniel (p. 568), recapitulated the interpretations which
had been given to the act in reference to the requisites of its
jurisdiction on such certificates. 1.. They must be questions of
law and not questions of fact-not such as involve or imply
conclusions or judgment by the judges upon the weight or
effect of the testimony or facts adduced in the cause (referring
to Wilson v. Barnum, 8 How. 258). And the quesi'on on
which the judges differed must be stated; not, whether a demurrer made on several grounds should be sustained (referring
to United States v. Briggs, 5 How. 208). 2. The points stated
must be single, and must not bring up the whole case for
decision (referring to United State8 v. Bailey, 9 Pet. 251;
Adams v. Jones, 12 Pet. 207; Tdte v. Turk, 12 Pet. 238; Yesmith v. Sheldon, 6 How. 41; JFeb8ter v. Cooper, 10 How. 54).
And, inasmuch as the certificate in that case (Dennistoun v.
Stewart) did not present a single or specific question of law
arising in the progress of the cause, but referred to this court
the entire law of the case as it might arise upon all the facts
supposed by the court, the case was remanded to the Circuit
Court to be proceeded in according to law, without any answer
to the questions propounded.
The cases and points adjudged on the subject are very fully
rehearsed by Mr. Justice Swayne in Daniels v. Railroad Co.,

CALIFORNIA PAVING CO. v. MOLITOR.
Opinion of the Court.

3 Wall.250. That was an action for an injury caused by a
collision of .railroad cars, and, .after reciting the evidence, the
certificate sta.td that this was all the evidence, and thereupon
it occurred as a question whether, in point of. law, upon the
facts as stated and proved, the action could be maintained, and
whether or not the jury should be so instructed; and, on \this
question, the judges were opposed in opinion. The court refused to consider the case, and dismissed the certificate.
The case of Wil8on v. Barnum,8 How.258, is especially worthy of note in this connection. The question certified in that
case was whether, upon the evidence given, the defendant
infringed the complainant's patent. Chief Justice Taney, delivering the opinion of the court, said: "The question thus certified is one of fact, and has been discussed as suich in the
arguments offered on botlh sides. It is a question as to the.
substantial identity of the two machines.

.-

The juris-

diction of this court to hear and determine a question certified
from the Circuit Court is derived altogether from the act of
1802 [cited -above], and that act evidently gives the jurisdiction only in cases where the judges of the Circuit Court differ
in opinion on a point of law.-

.

.

.

In the multitude of

questions which have been certified, this. court has never taken
jurisdiction of a question of fact. And in a question of law it
requires the precise point to be stated, otherwise the case is
remanded without an answer." Pages 261-2. And the case
was remanded for want of jurisdiction.
It seems to us that the certificate in the present case is obnoxious to the objections presented in the cases cited. The
new controversy raised by the defendant's construction of the
pavement in Redwood City is substantially a new suit on the
patent; and we are asked to 'decide it. We are asked to say
whether a pavement constructed in such and such a manner is
an infringement of the patent as the Circuit Court has construed the patent. And this is a mixed question of fact and
law. By the final decree in the case, made in 1881, the court
decided that the pavements which the defendant had been
theretofore making did infringe the patent. How those pavements were constructed we are not informed; and therefore

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabus

we do not know what was the precise construction given by
the court to the patent. Whether the new pavement, constructed in Redwood City, is an infringement or not, is just as
much a mixed question of law and fact (as the case is presented
to us) as was the question whether the pavements formerly
constructed by the defendant were an infringement. It is a
question which the Circuit Court must decide for itself in the
ordinary way. If the judges disagi ie there can be no juagment of contempt; and the defendant must be discharged.
The complainant nqay then either seek a review of that decision in this court, or bring a new suit against the defendant for
the alleged infringement. The latter method is by far the
most appropriate one where it is really a doubtful question
whether the new process adopted is an infringement or not.
Process of contempt is a severe remedy, and should not be resorted'to where there is fair ground of- doubt as to the wrongfulness of the defendant's conduct.
The case must be dismissed, with directions to the Circuit
Court to proceed thLerein according to law.

WINONA & ST. PETER RAILROAD COMPANY v.
BARNEY & Others.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
-

DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA.

Argued December 4, 5, 1884.-Deccded March 2, 1885.

If acts granting public lands to a State to aiH in constructing railroads con.
tain words of description to which it would be difficult to give full effect
if they *ere ued in an instrument of private conveyance, the court in construing the acts will look to the condition of the country when they were
passed, as well as to the purpose declared on their face, and will read all
parts of them together.
By the act of March 3, 1857, Congress granted to the then Territory of Minne-.
sota in aid of the construction of certain railroads certain alternate sections
of lands along the lines of the roads, and further provided that "in case it
shall appear that the United States have, when the lines or routes of said
roads and branches are definitely fixed, sold any sections, or any parts

