CONSOLJDATED VALVE CO. v. CROSBY VALVE CO. 157
Syllabus.

profit of $6,115.58." The court was of opinion that there was
no violation of the contract. 19 C. C. 592.
The expression "steps and approaches leading up into -said
building," used in the petition, and the expression "approaches
or steps leading up into the building,." used in the finding of
facts, are, perhaps, somewhat vague. 'But we must infer that
the expression used in the finding means structures wholly outside of the building, not a part of it, but constituting a means
of ascent on the way into the building. In this view, the
stone used in the approaches or steps was not stone used in
the construction of the building, within the meaning of the
first contract and the original advertisement. The approaches
may have been of cut dimension stone, and necessary for use in
connection with the building after it was constructed; but, in
the absence of anything more definite in the finding, it cannot
be said that they were in the building, or a part of it.
Judgment affirmed.

CONSOLIDATED

SAFETY-VALVE

COMPAIY v.

CROSBY STEAM GAUGE & VALVE COMPAN-Y.
SAME v. SAME.
APPEALS VROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNTED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
Argued December 10, 11, 1884.-Decided Jfmuary 19, 1885.

Letters patent No. 58,294, granted to George W. Richardson, September 25,
1866, for an improvement in steam safety-valves, are valid.
Under the claim of that patent, namely, "A safety-valve, with the circular or
annular flange or lip c c, constructed in the manner, or substantially in the
manner, shown, so as to operate as and for the purpose herein described,"
the patentee is entitled to cover a valve in which are combined an initial
area, an additional area, a huddling chamber beneath the additional area,
and a strictured orifice leading from the huddling chamber to the open -ir,
the orifice being proportioned to the strength of the spring, as directed.
Richardson was the first person who made a safety-valve which, while it automatically relieved the pressure of steam in the boiler, did not, in effecting

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabus.
that result, reduce the pressure to such an extent as to make the use of the
relieving apparatus practically impossible, because of the expenditure of
time and fuel necessary to bring up the steam again to the proper working
standard.
His valve was the first which bad the strietured orifice to retard the escape of
the steam, and enable the valve to open with increasing power against the
spring, and close suddenly, with small loss of pressure in the boiler.
The direction given in the patent, that the flange or lip is to be separated from
the valve-seat by about one sixty-fourth of an inch for an ordinary spring,
with less space for a strong spring, and more space for a weak spring, to
regulate the escape of steam, as required, is a sufficient description, as matter of law, and it is not shown to be insufficient, as a matter of fact.
Letters patent No. 85,963, granted to said Richardson, January 19, 1869, for
an improvement in safety-valves for steam boilers or generators, are valid.
Under the claim of that patent, namely, "The combination of the surface beyond the seat of the safety-valve, with the means herein described for re,;ulating or adjusting the area of the passage for the escape of steam, substantially as and for the purpose described," the patentee is entitled to cover
the combination with the surface of the huddling chamber, and the strictured orifice, of a screw-ring to be moved up or down to obstruct such
orifice more or less in the manner described.
The patents of Richardson are infringed by a valve which produces the same
effects in operation, by the means described in Richardson's claims, although
the valve proper is an annulus, and the extended surface is a disc inside of
the annulus, the Richardson valve proper being a disc, and the extended
surface an annulus surrounding the disc ; and although the valve proper
has two ground joints, and only the steam which passes throtigh one of them
goes through the stricture, while, in the Richardson valve, all the steam
which passes into the air goes through the stricture ; and although the
huddling chamber is at the centre instead of the circumfereiee, and is izi
the seat of the valve, under the head, instead of in the head, and the stricture is at the circumference of the seat of the valve, instead of being at the
circumference of the head.
The fact that the prior patented valves were not used, and the speedy and extensive adoption of Richardson's valve, support the conclusion as to the
novelty of the latter.
Suits in equity having been begun, in 1879, for the infringement of the two
patents, and the Circuit Court having dismissed the bills, this court in reversing the decrees, after the first patent had expired, but not the second,
awarded accounts of profits and dmages as to both patents, and a perpetual
injunction as to the second patent.

The facts are fully stated in the opinion of the court.
-Y'. Twmas William Okarke and -Yr. Benjamin F. Butle'
for appellant.

CONSOLIDATED VALVE CO. v. CROSBY VALVE CO. 159
Opinion of the Court.

Yr. Joua
appellee.

H. .illett

and Yr. Benjamin F. Thlurston for

delivered the opinion of the court.
On the 27th of May, 1879, the Consolidated Safety-Valve
Company, a Connecticut corporation, brought a suit in equity,
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Massachusetts, against the Crosby Steam Gauge and Valve
Company a Massachusetts corporation, for the infringement of
letters patent No. 58,294, granted to George W. Richardson,
September 25, 1866, for an improvement in steam safety-valves.
The specification f the patent is as follows:
"Be it known, that I, George W. Richardson, of the city of
Troy, in the county of Rensselaer, in the State of New York,
have invented a new and useful improvement on a safety-valve
for steam generators, and I do hereby declare that the following is a full, clear and exact description of the construction and
operation of the same, reference being had to the annexed drawings, making a part of this specification, in which Fig. I is an
end view of my improved safety-valve and its seat, as seen from
the bottom; Fig. 2 is an end view of the valve alone, as sean
from the bottom: Fig. 3 is vertical section at x x, Fig 1, of the
valve and seat in position; Fig. 4 is a vertical' section at y y,
Fig. 2, of the valve alone. Similar colors and letters of reference
indicate corresponding parts in the several figures. A A is the
head of the safety-valve; B B B B are wings to guide the
valve into its seat E E; c o is a circular or annular flange or
lip, extending over, slightly below' and fitting loosely around,
the outer edge of the valve-seat E 12; D D is a circular or
annular chamber, into which the steam immediately passes
when the valve lifts from its seat at the ground joint F F;
.E E is the valve seat; FF is the ground joint of the valve
and seat; P is the countersink or centre upon which th~e point
of the stud extending from the scale lever rests, in the usual
manner. The nature of my invention consists in increasiii the
area of the head of the common safety-valve outside of its
ground joint, and terminating it in such a way as to form an
increased resisting surface, against which the steam escaping
MR. JUSTICE BLAToEFORD

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

from the generator shall act with additional force after it has
lifted the valve from its seat at the ground joint, and so, by
overcoming the rapidly increasing resistance of the spring or
scales, insure the lifting of the valve still higher, thus affording
so certain and free a passage for the steam to escape as effectually to prevent the bursting of the boiler or generator,
even when the steam is shut off and the damper left open.
7 1-YjT

F~r.

"To enable others skilled in the art to make and use my invention, I will proceed to describe its construction and operation. To the head of the common safety-valve, indicated by
all that portion of Fig. 2 lying, within the second circle from
the common centre, I add what is indicated by all that portion
lying outside of the said circle, in about the proportion shown
in the figure. A transverse vertical section of this added ppr-

CONSOLIDATED VALVE CO. v. CROSBY VALVE CO. 161
Opinion of the Court.

-

tion is indicated, in Fig. 4, by those portions of the figure lying
outside of the dotted linesp. , pp, while all that portion lying
within the dotted lines p p, p p, indicates a transverse vertical
section of the common safety-valve alone. This increased area
maybe made by adding to a safety-valve already in use, or by
casting the whole entire. I terminate this addition tci the head
of the valve with a circular or annular flange or lip, c c, which
projects beyond the valve-seat E , Fig. 3, and extends slightly
below its outer edge, fitting loosely around it, and forming the
circular or annular chamber D .D, whose transverse section,
shown in the figure, may ,be of any desirable form or size.
This flange or lip c c,fitting loosely around the valve-seat E,
is separated from it by about i -of an inch, for an ordinary
spring or balance. For a strong spring or balance this space
should be diminished, and for a weak spring or balance it
should be increased, to regulate the escape of the steam, as required. Instead of having the flange or lip c c project beyond
and extend below and around the outer edge of the valve-seat,
as shown in Fig. 3, a similar result may be obtained by having
the valve-seat itself project beyond the outer edge of the valvehead, and terminating it with a circular or annular flange or
lip, extending slightly above, and fitting loosely around, the
outer edge of the flange or lip c c of the valve-head; but I consider the construction shown in Fig. 3 preferable. With mr
improved safety-valve, constructed as now described, and attached to the generatr in the usual way, the steam, escaping
in the direction indicated by the arrows in Fig. 3, first lifts the
valve from its seat at the ground joint _FF, and then, passing
into the annular chamber D D, acts against the increased surface of the valve-head, and by this means, together with its
reaction produced by being thrown downwards upon the valveseat E E, it overcomes the rapidly increasing resistance of the'
spring or balance, lifts the valve still higher, and escapes freely
into the open air, until the pressure in the generator is reduced
to the degree desired, when the valve will be immediately
closed by the tension of the spring or balance. The escape of
the steam by means of this safety-valve is so certa:in and free,
that the pressure of the steam in the generator or boiler will
voL. 0=1-1

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

not increase beyond the point or degree at which-the valve is
set to blow off."
The claim of the patent is this: "' What I claim as my improvement, and desire to secure by letters patent, is a safety.
valve with the circular or annular flange or lip ce, constructed
in the manner, or substantially in the manner, shown, so as to
operate as and for the purpose herein described."
On the 2d of June, 1879, the same plaintiff brought a suit in
equity, in the same court, against the same defendant, for the
infringement of letters patent No. 85,963, granted to the same
George W. Richardson, January 19, 1869, for an improvement
in safety-valves for steam boilers or generators. So much of
the specification of the patent as is -inyblved in this suit. is as
follows:
"Be it known, that I, George William Richardson, of Troy,
in the State of New York, have invented certain new and useful improvements in safety-valves for steam boilers or generators ; and I do hereby declare that the following is a full, clear,
and exabt description thereof, reference being had to the accompanying drawings making part of this specification, in
which Figure 1 is a vertical section of the safety-valve and its
connections, taken in the plane of the axis of the valve-stem;
Fig. 2, a horizontal section taken in the plane of the line A a
6f Fig. 1, and Fig. 3 another horizontal section at the. line B b
bf Fig. 1. Fig. 4 is a vertical section taken in the plane of the
axis of the valve, representing a modification of my said invention ; and Fig. 5, a horizontal section thereof, taken in th6 plane
of the line Co of Fig. 4. My said invention relates to improvements in the invention described in letters patent granted to
me, and bearing date the 25th day of September, 1866, which
said patented invention relates-to a means for providing a more
free escape for the steam than could be obtained by safetyvalves as constructed prior thereto, and. to insure the keeping
of the valve open until the pressure of the steam in the boiler
or generator falls below the pressure which was required to
open it, the said means so patented consisting in forming the
valve with a surface outside of the ground joint, for the escaping steam to act against, the said surface being surrounded by

CONSOLIDATED VALVE
CO. v. CROSBY VALVE
CO. 163
Opinion of the Court.

a projecting or overlapping
lip, rim, orflange, leaving

a narrow

escape for the steam when the valve is opened but which, although of greater diameter
than the val~e-seat,
by reason of

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court

the said lap, presents a less area of opening for the escape of
steam than is produced at the valve-seat, so that the steam
which escapes through the area between the valve shall exert
pressure against the.said surrounding surface, and thereby not
only open the valve completely, but hold it up until the pressure of the steam in the boiler falls below the pressure by which
the valve was opened.
"One part of my present invention relates to .a means for
regulating or adjusting the area of the aperture for the escape
of the steam after acting on th said surface outside of the
valve-seat, so that the valve way be set to close at any desired
pressure below the pressure which will open it; and this part
of my invention consists in making the aperture or apertures
for the escape of the steam, after it has acted on the said surface outside of the valve-seat, adjustable.
. "I will first describe the preferred mode of application of my
said invention, as represented in Figs. 1, 2, and 3 of the accompanying drawings. In the said figures, a represents the valveseat, which is to be attached to a steam boiler or generator in
the usual or any other suitable manner, and which is formed,
in the usual manner, with a bevelled seat from the valve b, fitted
thereto by what is well known as a ' ground joint.'
"It is desirable, that, so soon as the pressure of the steam in
the boiler or generator reaches the pressure at which it should
be relieved, the safety-valve should open wide for the free
escape of steam, and that the valve should remain open until
the pressure in the boiler is reduced below the pressure by
which the valve was opened, and that it should be so organized that the engineer may be able to adjust it so that it will
close at any desired number of pounds pressure below the pressure at which it was opened. To accomplish these results was
the main object of my said invention.
"To the upper surface of the valve I secure a calplate or
annulus, m, formed with a downward-projecting flange, 1,at
its outer periphery, leaving an annular space, o, all around between the outer periphery of the valve and the inner periphery
of the flange n of the said cap. And the upper surface of the
valve-seat a is extended'all around, a little beyond the outer

CONSOLIDATED VALVE CO. v. CROSBY VALVE CO. 165
Opinion of the Court.

periphery of the flange n of the cap, leaving an annular surface, p, surrounded by an upward-projecting rim, q, the plane
of the upper edge of which, when the valve is closed, extends
a short distance above the plane of the lower edge of the flange
n of the cap. The said cap-plate m.ii connected with the top
of the valve by studs r P, or cast with it, in such manneF as to
leave an op.;n space, 8, between the two, for the passage of
steam to the central aperture t in the cap, through which steam
can escape when the valve is lifted from its seat. This central aperture is surrounded by a projecting c'yliidrical flange,
threaded on the outside, to which is fitted a threaded ring, u,
that can be turned up or down to any desired elevation, and
there secured by a set-screw, v. The disk-like projectionf, on
the valve rod or stem e. extends over the 'said central aperture
t in the cap-plate m, and at such an elevation that the upper
edge of the adjustable ring can be set in contact with it, or let
down so far below it as to leave sufficient space for the free
escape of steam.
"From the foregoing it will be seen, that, when the pressure
of steam in the boiler or generator becomes sufficient to lift
the valve from its seat, it acts against the surface of the annular space o between the bevel of the'valve-seat and the downward-projecting flange n of the cap, to assist in lifting and
holding up the valve, particularly when the valve is borne'
down by the tension of a spring, which presents an increasing
resistance as the valve is lifted. If the projecting rim q were
in the same plane with the lower edge of the flange n, the
diameter of these parts being greater than that of the valveseat, on the lifting of the valve and cap, the area of the opening between the flange n of the cap and the projecting rim q
would be greater than the area of the opening between the
valve and its seat, just in proportion as the diameter of the one
is greater than the other, and the steam escaping from, the
valve would pass unchecked between the flange n and rim q,
and would not exert any force against the surface of the annular space o; but, as the rim q extends above the lower edge of
,the flange n of the cap-plate, it follows that the aperture between the valve and its seat, by the lifting of the valve, is

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

always greater than the aperture between the flange n and the
rim q, and hence the escaping steam, by its elastic force, will
act against the surface of the annular space o, to assist in lifting
and holding up. the valve putil the pressure in the boiler or
generator falls below the pressure by which the valve was first
opened. The difference between the pressure against which
the valve will close and the pressure by which it will be opened
will depend upon the distance between the outer periphery of
the flange n of the cap-plate and the inner periphery of the
projecting rim q. To render this adjustable, the area of the
aperture for the escape of steam beyond the valve-seat must be
adjustable. This is effected by the raising or lowering of the
ring ,u. If it be set to its lowest position, the steam escaping
from the valve will be free to escape between the top of the
valve and the cap, through the central aperture, and thence
between the upper edge of the ring u and the disk f, without
materially aiding to lift or hold up the valve; but, by setting
the ring u nearer to the under surface of the disk f, and
thereby reducing the space for the escape of steam, it will be
caused to act, by its elastic force, against the annular space o
of the cap-plate, and thus assist in lifting the valve and holding it up.
"I have described and represented this as the simplest mode
of adjusting the area of the aperture for the escape of the steam
after it passes the valve-seat; but it will be obvious, that the
same result may be attained by equivalent means, such, for instance, as making the ring q in adjustable segments, so that its
diameter can be increased or diminished; but this would be
more complicated than the mode first and fully described; and
it will also be obvious, that the devices for holding up the valve
may be inverted, as represented in Figs. 4 and 5 of the accompanying drawings, in which a' is the valve-seat and ' the valve,
with its bevelled ground joint, the valve-seat d having a flat
annular surface ', beyond the bevel, and the valve an annular
surface d, with a downward-projecting flange e', the lower
edge of which, when the valve is closed, extends a little below
the plane of the surface c' of the 'alve-seat, and a narrow annular space being left for the escape of steam between the inner

CONSOLIDATED VALVE CO. v.CROSBY VALVE CO. 167
Opinion, of the Court.

periphery of the said flange and the outer periphery of the
valve-seat a', as set forth in my patent of September 25,
1866."
The claim of the patent is as follows:
"What I claim as new, and desire to secureby letters patent,
is, the combination of the surface beyond the seat of-the safetyvalve, with the means herein descjbed for regulating or adjusting the area, of the passage for the escape of steam, substantially as andl for the purpose described."
The answers in the two suits set up want of novelty, and
cite, as anticipating patents, three English patents-one to
Charles Ritchie, No. 12,078, August 3, 1818; one to James
Webster, No. 1,955, July 12, 1857; aqd one to William Hartley, No. 2,205, August 19, 1857; also, an English publication
made in 1858, called "The Artizani" Infringement is.denied,
and it is averred that the valves which the defendant makes
and sells are the inventions of George H. Crosby, and are described in two patents grantedto him and owned by the defendant, one No. 159,157, dated January 26, 1875; and the
other, No. 160,167, dated February 2 ,1875.
The same proofs were taken in the two suits, and they were
heard together in the Circuit Court. In each suit that court
made a decree dismissing the bill, 7 Fed. Rep. 768, and from
each decree the plaintiff has appealed.
When Richardson applied for his patent of 1866 his claim
read thus: "What I claim as my improvement, and desire to
secure by letters patent, is, increasing the area of the head of
the common safety-valve, outside of the ground joint F1, and
terminating this addition with the circular or annular flange or
lip c e,Qonsttucted in the-manner, or substantially in the manner shown,So as to operate as 4nd for the purpose herein described." This claim was rejected't$4defective, because not for
a device, and it was amnded .to read as granted.
In the application for the patent of 1869 there were two
clamns. The second related to means for preventing the guides
and stem- of the valve from binding, and was rejected as not
new, and stricken out,.tho-agh- the descriptive iatter on which
it was founded was retained. 'The first claim, as apilied for,

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

*was this: "What I claim as new, and desire to secure by letters patent, is, combining with the surface beyond the bevelled,
or equivalent, seat of a safety-valve, the means herein described,
or the equivalent thereof, for regulating or adjusting the area
of the passage for the escape of steam beyond the bevel, or
equivalent, seat, substantially as and for the purpose described."
This claim was amended, on suiggestions made by the Patent.
Office, to.read as granted.
The view taken by the Circuit Courti in dismissing the bjlls,
was, that some valves had been made before 1866, which embodied the same general principle as Richardson's, and, were of
some value, operating through the expansive power of steam
exerted upon an additional chamber outside of the ground
joint; and that what Richardson did was to so regulate the
action of the chamber outside of the ground joint, by a crack or
opening between "the lip of the valve and its main body, that
the steam would be confined or huddled, when it sought to
escape from the chamber, and so the valve would be held up
just long enough, and could fall rapidly before too much steam
was lost. But, the cases went off on the question of infringement, and the Circuit Court found, that while the defendant's
valve employed an additional surface to lift the valve as soon
as it began to blow, and the pressure was regulated in part by
a stricture, it differed from the plaintiff's, in that the additional
area was not outside of the ground joint, but inside, and was
not acted on independently of the valve itself, but was a part
of it, and the escaping steam did not act-at all by impact, but
wholly by expansion. The conclusion was, that as Richardson
was not the first to apply the idea of an additional area or of a
stricture, he could not enjoin a valve which resembled his only
in adopting such general ideas, and that his claims did not
cover a valve having the mode of operation of the defendant's.
Edward H. Ashcroft, as assignee of William Naylor, obtained reissued letters patent of the United St.ates No. 3,727,
dated November 9, 1869, on the surrender rf letters.patent No.
-58,962, issued to said Naylor, October 16, 186 t or an improvement in safety-valves. Ashcroft brought a- t t in equity, in
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Dictriet of ]Mas-

CONSOLIDATED VALVE CO. v. CROSBY VALVE CO. 169Opinion of the Court.

sachus6tts, against the Boston and Lowell Railroad Company,
for the infringement of reissue No. 3,727. The infringement
consisted in the use of valves constructed according to the patent of 1866 to Richardson. The court dismissed the bill, 5
Off. Gaz. 25, and 1 Holmes, 366, and 1U Bann. & A. 215, and
on an appeal to this court, by the plaintiff, the decree was
affirmed. 97 U. S. 189. In view of an English patent, No.
1,038, granted to CharlesBeyer, April 25, 1863, it was held by
this court, that Naylor was not the first person who devised
means for using the recoil action of steam to assist in lifting the
valve, or who invented the combination, in a spring safetyvalve, of an overhanging downward curved lip, with an annular
recess surrounding-the valve-seat, into which steam is deflected
as it issues between the valve and its seat. In speaking of the
invention of Richardson, as described in his patent of 1866, this
court said: "His invention, as he describes it, consists in increasing the area of the head of the common safety-valve outside of its ground joint, and terminating it in such a way as to
form an increased resisting surface, against which the steam
escaping from the generator shall act with additional force,
after lifting the valve from its seat at the ground joint, and so,
by overcoming the rapidly increasing resistance of the spring
or scales, will insure the lifting of the valve still higher, thus
affording so certain and free a passage for the steam to escape
as effectually to -prevent the bursting of the boiler or generator,
even when the steam is shut off and the damper left open.
Safety-valves previously in use were not suited to accomplish
what was desired, -which was to open for the piurpose of relieving the boiler, and then to close again at a pressure as nearly
as possible equal to.that at which the valve opened. Sufficient
appears, to show that Richardson so far accomplished that purpose as to invent a valve which would open at the given pressure to which it was adjusted, and relieve the boiler, and then
close again when the pressure was reduced about two and onehalf pounds to the inch, even when the pressure in the generator was one hundred pounds to the same extent of surface,
which made it, in practice, a useful spring safety-valve, as
proved by the fact that it went almost immediately into gen-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.Opinion of the Court.

eral use.
When the valve opens the steam expands,
and flows into the annular space around the ground joint.
Its free escape,'which-might otherwise be too free, is prevented
by a stricture or fiarrow space formed by the outer edge of the
lip and the valve-seat. By these means, the steam escaping
from the valve is made to act, by its expansive force, upon an
additional area outside of the device, as ordinarily constructed,
to assist in raising the valve." On these views, it was held by
this court, that., although important functions, not very dissimilar in the effect produced, were performed by the two valves
there in controversy, the means used and the mode of operation were substantially different in material respects.
In the present case, .the-defendantjhad introduced in evidence
the before-named English patents to Ritchie, Webster and Hartley, and the English patent to Wifliam Naylor, No. 1,830,
granted July 1,1863; and also letters patent of the United States,
No. 10,243, granted to Henry Waterman, November 15, 1853,
and the reissue of the same, No. 2,675, granted to him July 9,
1867. In view of all these patents, and of the state of the art,
it appears that Richardson 'was, the first person who described
and introduced into use a safety-valve which, while it automatically relieved the .pressure of steam in the boiler, did not, in
effecting that result, reduce the pressure to such an extent as
to make the use of the .reRpving apparatus practically impossible, because of the expenditure of time and fuel necessary to
bring up the steam again to the proper working standard.
His-valve, while it automatically gives relief before the pressure becomes dangerously great, according to the point -at
'which the valve is 'set to, blow off, operates so as to automatically arrest with promptness the reduction of pressure when
the boiler is relievedl" ;'h patent of 1866 gave a moderate
range of pressure, as the result of the proportions there specified, and his patent of 1869 furnished a 'means of regulating
that .range of pressire, by a screw ring, within those narrow
limits which are essential in the use of so subtle an agent as
steam.

'In regard to allof the above patents, adduced against Richardson's-,patent of 1866, it may be generally said, that they

CONSOLIDATED VALVE CO. v. CROSBY VALVE CO. 171
Opinion of the Court.

never were, in their day, and before the date of that patent, or
of Richardson's invention, known or recognized as producing
any such result as his apparatus of that patent produces, as
above defined. Likenesses in them, in physical structure, to
the apparatus of Richardson, in important particulars, may be,
pointed out, but it is only as the anatomy of a corpse resembles that of the living being. The prior structures never
effected the kind of result attained'by Richardson's apparatus,
because they lacked the thing which gave success. They did
not have the retarding stricture which gave thelifting opportunity to the huddled steam, combined with the quick falling,
of the valve after relief had come. Taught by Richardson,and by the use of his apparatus, it is not difficult for skilled
mechanics to take the prior structures and so arrange and use
them as to produce mot or less of the beneficial results first
made known by Richardson; but, prior to 1866, though these
old patents and-their descriptions were accessible, no valve was
made producing any such results. Richardson's patent of 1866
states that the addition to the head of .the valve terminates in
ah-annular lip, which fits loosely around the valve-seat, and is
separated from it by about jtth of an inch for an ordinary,
spring, and a less space for a strong spring, and a greater space
for a weak spring, forming an annular chamber, and regulating the escape of the steam; that the steam, when the valre is
lifted, passe. beyond the valve-seat, and into the annular chamber, and acts against the increased surface of the valve-head,
and thus overcomes the increasing resistance of the spring due
to its compression, and lifts the valve higher, and the steam.
escapes freely into the open air, until the pressure is sufficiently
reduced, when the spring immediately closes the valve. It is
not shown that, before 1866, any known valve produced this
result. On the contrary, Richardson .testifies, that, for about
twenty years before 1866, he was acquainted with safety-valves
in practical use, by working in the locomotive repair shops of
railroad comianies, part of the time as foreman, and as a locomotive engineer, and that he never, before his invention, knew,
in practical use or on sale, of any spring-loaded safety-valve,
capable of opening to relieve the boiler when the working

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

pressure was exceeded, and of automatically closing with a
small loss of working. pressure. He also says that he was in
England, for about four months, in 1873, bringing his valve to
the notice of officials in the shops of some of the largest railroad companies (his valve being one especially useful on locomotive engines on railroads); that, while he was in England,
he found no man who professed to be acquainted with, or to
have heard of, a safety-valve which would automatically open
and relieve the boiler at a predetermined working prcssure,
and automatically close when such working pressure had been
slightly reduced, or who admitted that such a valve could be
made until he had seen Richardson's valve work; that the
master mechanics at the shops named did not believe he could
make a valve close within 25 pounds of the blowing-off point;
that he showed them the working of his valve with no excess
beyond working pressure, and with but from 3 to 5 pounds reduction from a pressure of 130 pounds per square inch in the
boiler; that he did not hear, in England, of any of the IRitchie,
Webster or Hartley valves, but heard the N~aylor, valve blow;
and that, when it blew, the steam rose several pounds above
the point where it commenced to blow, and it did not close
promptly, tightly or suddenly. There is no evidence to contradict, or vary the effect of, this testimony.
Thomas Adams, of M anchester, England, who has spent a
lifetime in the manufacture and practical working of safetyvalves, testifies, that the iRitchie and Webster valves have never
been in use practically in England, and the Hartley only in
two or three cases, when it was a failure; that he himself has
made and applied, in England, about 15,000 of Richardson's
valves; that, if loaded at 120 pounds per square inch, his valve
returns to its seat with a very small loss of pressure; that the
Beyer valve, loaded at 120 pounds, reduces the pressure 30
pounds, before returning to its seat; and that INaylor's has
been- superseded by Richardson's.
It appears to have been easy enough to make a safety-valve
which 'would relieve the boiler, but the problem was to make
one which, while it opened with increasing power in the steam
against the increasing resistance of a spring, would close sud-

CONSOLIDATED VALVE CO. v. CROSBY VALVE CO.- 173
Opinion of the Court.

denly and not gradually, by the -pressure of the same spring
against the steam. This was a problem of the reconciliation
of antagonisms, which so .often recurs in mechanics, and without which practically successful results are not attained. What
was needed was a narrow stricture, to hold back the escaping
steam, and secure its expansive force inside of.the lip, and thus
aid the direct pressure of the steam from the boiler, in lifting
the valve against the increasing tension of the spring, with the
result, that,'after only a small, but a sufficient, reduction in the
boiler pressure, the compressed spring would, by its very compression, obtain the mastery and close the valve quickly. This
*problem was solved by Richardson and never before. His
patent of 1869 describes the arrangement and operation of the
whole apparatus, with the adjustable ring, thus: When the
pressure of the steam lifts the valve, the steam acts against
the surface of an annular space between the bevel of the valveseat and the downward projecting flange of the cap-plate, to
assist in holding up the valve against the increasing resistance
of the spring. The aperture between the valve and its seat is
always greater than that between the flange and the upward
projecting rim, and thus the steam in the annular space assists
in holding up the valve till the boiler pressure falls below that
at which the valve opened. The difference between the closing pressure and the opening pressure depends on the distance
between the flange and the rim. There is a central aperture
in the cap, through which the steam escapes when the valve is
lifted, which is surrounded by a projecting cylindrical flange,
threaded on the outside, to which is fitted a threaded ring,
which can be turned up or down, and secured by a set screw.
By this means, the area of the aperture for the escape of steam
beyond the valve-seat is adjustable, the space being largest
when the ring is down and smallest when the ring is up.
Ritchie's patent, in speaking of his valve, says: "This valve
is weighted by a helical spring i (shown at Figure 2) of sufficient power according to the required pressure of the steam;
and, when it is intended to be used as a reserve safety-valve, I
place the spring around that part of the stem below the valve,
that is to say, within the boiler,' as shown at Figure 2. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

advantage of this form of construction of valve over the ordinary valve is as follows: As soon as the pressure of the steam
raises the valve from its seat, the flange h,being exposed to
the pressure of the steam, presents an increased surface, which
compensates for the increasing resistance of the helical spring
i,until the valve.has been raised to a height equal to the area
of the steam-way, when it allows the steam or vapor to escape
freely." In an article in "The Artizan," published in England,
in July, 1858, signed by Ritchie, and referring to his patent of
1848, it is said of his valve: "The top area being made double
that of the under side or steam-way, such a valve would quickly
reducb the pressure in the boiler to, half that at which the
valve lifted; and so, also, -of other proportions. Hence it is
chiefly suited for a reserie valve." "This shows the existence
of the very evil which. :Richardson remedied. Ritchie's patent
and publication say nothing about any stricture.
The-evidenc6 in the present case shows satisfactorily, ,that
-vlves made in conformity with the measurements of the drawing of Ritchie's patent do, in practice reduce the pressure in
the boiler to such an extent, after that pressure is properly reli,§ted, and before they close, as to involve great loss of time
and consumption of fuel before the initial pressure is restored.
The experimental valves produced by the defendant as structures made according to Ritchie's patent vary from the dimensions of his drawing, and the variations are those which result
from the instructions given by, .Richardson in his patents.
Ritchie' gives no information how to make a valve work at a
predetermined pressure, or hoW to make it work with a small
range ot "ifference b.twee~i the opening and closing pressures,
or hiow to prportiQ4 the strength of the spring and the size
of "thestri9 tuije to each other. " The same thing is true of the
Webster and-the Hariley patents.
The Webster patent shows a huddling chamber and a stricture.. But tlhE evidenpce shows thIat valveg made with the propbrfions shown in the drawings of Webster work with so large
a loss 6f ooiler pressure, before closing, as to be practically and
economically, vorthless. Webster's patent describes a means
of making the- aread. itheescape of steam adjustable,consist-

CONSOLIDATED VALVE CO. v. CROSBY VALVE CO. 1T5
Opinion of the Court.

ing in adjusting up and down, on a smooth valve-stem, a sliding
collar or flange, and fixing it in place by a set-screw. But it
does not 'show the screw-ring of Richardson, with its minute
delicacy of adjustment and action.
N.othing further need be said as to the Hartley valve or the
Beyer valve.
The original patent to Waterman was issued in 1853. His
attention, had been turned to the subject of safety-valves for
locomotive engines. He invented what is described in that
patent, but he testifies that, before 1866, he never saw a safety-alve capable of keeping the pressure at a point not above
working pressure, and of relieving the boiler with but a small
loss of pressure; that his valve would let the -steam down about
15 pounds, and was not practical for an-ordinary locomotive;
and that the Richardson valve, when introduced, went at once
into general use. The Waterman valve had a supplemental
surface, on which the steam acted to aid in the raising of the
valve; and this was shown in the drawing of Watennan's
original patent, but the specification did not describe it.
Waterman's original patent did not show the use of a spring,
and prior to its reissue his valve had not been made with a
spring. After Richardson obtained his patent of 1866, and
Waterman kn6w of Richardson's valve, they combined the interests in their two patents, and the reisue of Waterman's wasobtained, with the co-operation of :Richardson, he signing as a
witness the specification of the reissue. That specification,
granted in 1867, describes an overhanging part of the valve as
increasing its area outside of, and beyond, the ground joint,
and a concentric rim or ledge, which directs the steam upward
against such overhanging part of the valve, so that the valve is
assisted in rising. The specification was drawn in view of
Richardson's patent and valve, and for the purpose of making
a claim, which was then made, and which was not in Waterman's original patent, to a combination of the concentric rim
or ledge with the overhanging part of the valve. The specification states, that the valve and its seat are so constructed that
the escaping steam will act on an increased area of the valve
after it has risen from its seat, and strike the overhanging or

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

projecting annular surface above, and outside of; and beyond,
the ground joint. It also states, that a pf~oper modification of
the overhanging or projecting annular surface will modify the
force of the steam; that, if such surface .be large, the valve
will be opened suddenly and discharge so. much steam that the
pressure in the boiler will be considerably reduced before the
valve closes; that such surface may be made so small that but
little more than the surplus steam will escape; that the success
or efficiency of the valve will depend on a proper proportion
between the overhanging annular surface and the ,concentric
rim or ledge, because, if a free discharge of steam between
them is allowed, the valve will not be assisted in rising, and, if,
the escape of steam is too small, the valve will rise too easily,
and remain open too long, and the steam Will be so much
reduced in pressure as seriously to impair the economical and
efficient action of the apparatus; and directions are given as to
the sizes of the overhanging part, and of the ledge or rim, and
of the opening, for a valve of a specified diameter, acting with
a specified pressure of steam. Nothing of all this was found
in the specification of the original Waterman patent. It, therefore, has no effect, as against Richardson's patent of 1866, to
destroy the validity of that patent.
If anything which Richardson did in respect to reissuing the
Waterman patent, could, in any event, affect the rights of the
present plaintiff under either patent sued on, as to which we
express no opinion, it is sufficient to say, that the present defendant claims, in its answers, no benefit from any action of
Richardson's in respect to the Waterman patent, as operating
in its favor or inuring to its benefit, as an 'equitable defence in
these suits.
Richardson is, therefore, entitled to cover, by the claim of
his patent of 1866, under the language, "a safety-valve with
the circular or annular flange or lip o e, constructed in the
manner, or substantially in the manner, shown, so as to operate
as and for the purpose herein described," a valve in which are
combined an initial area, an additional area, a huddling chamber beneath the additional area., and a strictured orifice leading
from the huddling chamber to the open air, the orifice being

CONSOLIDATED VALVE CO. v. CROSBY VALVE CO. 177
Opinion of the Court.

proportioned to the strength of the spring, as directed. The
direction given in the patent is, that the flange or lip is to be
separated from the valve-seat by about jth of an inch for an
ordinary spring, with less space for a strong spring, and more
space for a weak spring, to regulate the escape of the steam,
as required. As matter of law, this description is sufficient, within the rule laid down in WVood v.. Underhill,'
How. 1, and it is not shown to be insufficient, as a matter of
fact.
Richardson is also entitled to cover, by the claim of his patent of 1869, under the language, "the combination of the surface beyond the seat of the safety-valve, with the means herein
described, for regulating or adjusting the area of the passage
for the escape of steam, substantially as and for the purpose
described," the combination with the surface of the huddling
chamber,, and the strictured orifice, of a screw ring, to be moved:
up or down to obstruct such orifice more or less, in the manner
described.
The Richardson patents have a disc valve, an annular huddling chamber, an annular stricture at the outer extremitypf
the radii from the centre of the valve, an additional area which
is radially beyond the disc valve, and a cylindrical steam-way.
But, before 1866, an annular form of -safety-valve was well
known. Such a valve necessarily requires an annular steamway. In the defendant's valve, complainant's Exhibit A, the
same effects, in operation, are produced as in the Richardson
valve, by the means described in Richardson's claims. In both
structures, the valve is held to its seat by a spring, so compressed
as to keep the valve there until the pressure inside of the
boiler is sufficient to move the valve against the pressure of the
spring, so that the steam escapes through the ground joint into
a chamber covered by an extension of the valve, in which
chamber the steam acts expansively against the extended surface, and increases the pressure in opposition to the increasing
pressure of the spring, and assists in opening the valve wider;
this chamber, in the defendant's valve, has, at its termination,
substantially the same construction as Richardson's valve,
namely, a stricture, v-hich causes the steam to act, by expansive
VOL.

cxI-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court

force, against the extended surface of the valve; and in both
valves, after the pressure of the steam has been somewhat reduced in the boiler, the closing movement is quickened, as the
valve nears its seat, in consequence of the reduced pressure of
the steam on the extended surface, and the valve comes suddenly to its seat. In the Richardson valve, the valve proper
is a disc, and the extended surface is an annulus surrounding
the disc, while, in the defendant's valve, the valve proper is an
annulus, and the extended surface is a disc inside of the annulus.
But this is a mere, interchange of form between the valve
proper and the extended surface, within the skill of an ordinary
mechanic.
There is one structural difference between the two valves,
which is now to be mentioned. In the Richardson valve, all
the steam which escapes into the open air escapes from the
huddling chamber, through a stricture which is smaller than
the aperture at the ground joint. In the defendant's valve,
the valve proper has two ground joints, one at the inner periphery of the annulus, and the other at its outer periphery,
and only a part of the steam, namely, that which passes through
one of the ground joints passes into the huddling chamber and
then through the stricture, the other part of the steara passing
directly from the boiler into the air, through the other ground
joint. But all of that part of the steam which passes into the
huddling chamber and under the extended surface, passes
through'the constriction at the extremity of such chamber, in
both valves, the difference being only one of degree, but with
the same mode of operation.
In the Richardson patent of 1869, the stricture is regulated
as to size by an adjustable screw-ring. In the defendant's
valve, there is a screw-ring or sleeve, which closes the escape
orifices from the central chamber, more or less.
In the defendant's valve, the huddling chamber is at the
centre instead of the circumference, and is in the seat of the
valve under the head, instead of in the head, and the stricture,
instead of being at the circumference of the head, is at the circumference of the seat of the valve. But this is only the use of
means equivalent to those shown by Richardson, while the

BRYAN v. KENNETT.
Syllabus.

mode of operation of the parts of the mechanism is the same,
in their relation to each other, and the result is the same.
Richardson's invention brought to success what prior inventors had essayed and partly accomplished. He used some
things which had been used before, but he added just that
which.was necessary to make the whole a practically valuable
and economical apparatus. The fact that the known valves
were not used, and the speedy and extensive adoption of
Richardson's valve, are facts in harmony with the evidence
that his valve contains just what the prior valves'lacl and go
to support the conclusion at which we have arrived on the
question of novelty. When the ideas necessary to success are
made known, and a structure embodying 'those ideas is given
to the world, it is easy for the skilful mechanic to vary the
form by mechanism which is equivalent, and is, therefore, in a
case of this kind, an infringement.
It follows, from these views, that
The decrees of the Circuit Court must be r'evereged, and each
case be remanded to that court, with a direction to enter a
decree sustaining the validity of the patent sued on, and
decreeing infringement, and awarding an account of profits
and damages, as prayed for, and to take such furtherproceedings a may be _proper and not inconsistentwith th.'
opinion, and with the further direction, as to the suit
brought on thepatent of 1869, to grant a perpetualinjunc.
tion, accordingto the prayer of the bill.

BRYAN & Others v. KENNETT & Others.

IN ERROR

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UT ED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
Argued December 12, 1884.-Decided January 5, 1885.

The term "property," in the treaty by which the United States acquired
Louisiana, comprehends every species of title, inchoate or complete, legal

ot equitable, and embraces rights which lie in contract, executory as well
as executed.

