BICKNELL, v. COMSTOCK.
Syllabus.

necessarily carried ivith it the right to bail, and deprived the
court of all discretion in the premises. But that construction
of the statute is not, we think, admissible.
At the argument, counsel for appellant laid stress upon the
fact, averred in the last -petition for habeas corpus, that the
order committing him to the custody of the marshal had been
executed by confining him at the penitentiary. Mel~e return of
the officer is that the accused is in his custody under and by
virtue of the order of commitment. It is not claimed that he
is treated as a convict in the penitentiary undergoing the sentence pronounced in pursuance of the judgment appealed from,
but only that the officer uses that institution as a place for the
confinement of the accused while the latter is in his custody.
Whether that action -of.the officer be legal is a question that
does not now arise; for, the application to the Supreme Court
of the Territory for habeas corpus only raised the question of
the right of the accused to be discharged, on bail, rrom all
custody whatever; and the present appeal is froni the order,
in that court, refusing such discharge, and remanding him to
the custody of the marshal;
There is no error in the record, and the judgment is
4flrned.
MR. JUSTICE MI LER

BICO
IN

and MRTh. JUSTICE FIELD dissented.

LL v. COMSTOCK.

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Submitted Janupry 8, 185.-Decided January 19, 1S83.

The mutilation (without the consent and against the protest of the grantee) of
a patent for public land, by the Commissioner of the Land Office, after its
execution and transmission to the grantee, and the like mutilation of the
record thereof, do not affect the validity of the patent.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.
A State statute of limitations as to real actions begins to run in favor of a claimant under a patent from the United States, on the issue of the patent and

its transmission to the grantee.
The lapse of time provided by a statute of limitations as to real actions vests a
perfect title in the holder.

This was an action to recover the consideratioR paid for a
tract of land in Iowa, and the value of the improvements
thereon, brought by defendant in error, as plaintiff below,
against the plaintiff in error as defendant. The complaint
alleged a conveyance by Bicknell to one Bennett, the subsequent. transfer to the defendant by sundry mesne conveyances; valuable improvements on the premises made by Bennett
and his grantees; and a failure of title in Bicknell when the
deed was made, by reason of a superior title in the State of
Iowa under a land grant. Judgment below for plaintiff, to reverse which this writ of error was brought.
.r.

Ed-ward

. Bullardfor plaintiff in error.

3fr. A. B. Olmstead for defendant in error.
MiLLEE delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court for the Eastern
District of New York.
The action is for a breach of covenants of warranty in a conveyance of land located in Iowa. It is a manifest attempt to
MR. JuSTIo

obtain the judgment of this court on one of the complicated
phases of the disputed titles growing out of the grants of lands

on the Des Moines River to aid in improving the navigation of
that river, and in constructing railroads through these lands,
with a strong probability of the absence and ignorance of this
suit, on the part of all the persons really interested in the questions here raised-.

The plaintiff below, Comstock, is not the original grantee in
the deed on whose covenants he sues. He does not allege that

he has been evicted under any 'judicial proceedings from possession of the land, but, on the contrary, it is one of the agreed
facts on which the case was heard by the court without a jury,

BICKNELL v. COMSTOCK.
Opinion of the Court.

that defendant Bicknell, and those claiming under his deed,
including, of course, the plaintiff, have been in the actual possession of the land in question ever since May 23, 1862, a period
of more than twenty-two years.
We shall be able, however, to decide this case without answering the twenty-four errors assigned, by considering the
thirteenth assignment alone, namely, that, under the facts in
this case, the court should have found that a perfect title was
vested in Bicknell to the lot in question.
One of the facts admitted in the case stated is this: "It is
admitted that on the first day of May, 1869, a patent in due
form was executed by the President of the United States, conveying to said Bicknell said lots, 3 and 4, which patent was
duly recorded in the General Land Office on the same day at
Washington, D. C., and thereupon the original was transmitted
to the United States land office at Fort Dodge, Iowa, for said
Bicknell."
In June, 1878, the Commissioner of the General Land Office
ordered a return of this patent 'to his office, and thereupon
"tore off the seals and erased the President's name from said
patent, and mutilated the record thereof in the General Land
Office, all without the consent and against the protest of the
grantees of said Bicknell."
That this action was utterly nugatory and left the patent of
1869 to Bicknell in as full force as if no such attempt to destroy
or nullify it had been made, is a necessary inference from the
principles established by the court in the case of United States
v. Sc1hurz, 102 U. S. 378. That principle is that when the
patent has been executed by the President and recorded in the
General Land Office, all power of the Executive Department
over it has ceased.
It is not necessary to decide whether this patent conveyed a
valid title or not. It divested the title of the United States
if it had not been divested before, so that Bicknell, or his
grantees, being in possession under claim and color of title, the
statute of limitation began to run in their favor.
The agreed case further finds, that "it is also admitted that
the defendant Bicknell and his grantees have been in actual

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

possession of the premises in question ever since May 3, 1862,
and during that period made permanent improvements upon
said lot 3 of the value of more than $6,000."
As all title was out of the United States prior to this deed,
in which this suit is brought, and vested in some one else capable of suing under the various acts cited to defeat Bicknell's
title' or passed out of the United States by the patent to Bicknell in 1869, at the latest, the case makes a continued uninterrupted possession under Bicknell's title, adverse to all the world,
of fifteen years.
Under the statute of Iowa ten years of such possession is a
perfect bar to any action to recover the land, and this applies
to suits in chancery as well as actions at law. (See Cobde of
Iowa, section 2529, subdivision 5.)
The defence, therefore, of the plaintiff in this action to any
suit brought against him for the land covered by Bicknell's
deed is perfect, and he is in the undisturbed possession of the
land held under Bichiell's claim for over twenty-two years.
This court has more than once held that the lapse of time
provided by the statutes makes a perfect title.
In Lefilngwell v. TVarren, 2 Black, 599, it is said that "the
lapse of time limited by such statutes not only bars the remedy,
but it extinguishes the right, and vests a perfect title in the
adverse holder."
And this doctrine is repeated in Croxall v. Shererd, 5 Wall.
289, and in Dickerson v. Coigrove, 100 U. S. 5'18, 583.
The court was asked on the trial to rule that under the facts
found in this case a perfect title was vested in Bicknell to the
lot in question. And though this may not be literally true in
regard to Bicknell, we think it is true in regard to the title of
Bicknell under which the property is now held by plaintiff.
For this reason
The judgment of the Circuit Court is reversed, with direc-"
tions to enter a judgment for defendant Bicknell on the
agreedfacts.

