AVEGNO v. SCHMIDT.
Statement of Facts.

The difference between the two cases is obvious.
The judgment of the Circuit Court remanding the case is
affirmed.
The cases of Sully v. Manning, and Sully v. .Mfatthews, sub-

mitted with the foregoing, are governed by the principles announced in it, and are dccordingly
Affirmed

AVEGIO & Others v.SCHMIDT & Others.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.
Submitted January 12, 1885.-Declded January 26,1885.

A decree cbnfiscating real estate under the confiscation act of July 17, 1862,
12 Stat. 589, has no effect upon the interest of a mortgagee in the confiscated
property.
A District Court of the United States in proceedings for confiscating real
estate under the act of July 17, 1862, 12 Stat. 589, had no jurisdiction to
pass upon the validity of a mortgage upon the estate proceeded against.
The well established rule in Louisiana that where a mortgage contains the
pact de non alienando, the mortgagee may enforce his mortgage by proceedings against the mortgagor alone, notwithstanding the alienation of the
property, applies to an alienation by condemnation in proceedings for confiscation, and as against the heirs at law of the person whose property is
confiscated. Shieds v. Schiff, S6 La. Ann. 645, approved.
The heirs at law of a person whose life interest in real estate was confiscated
under the act of July 17, 1862, take, at his death, by descent, and not from
the United States, under the act.

This was an action brought in the Civil District Court of
the Parish of Orleans, in the State of louisiana, by the plaintiffs in error, heirs of Bernard Avegno, deceased, two of whom,
being minors, were represented by his widow, as their tutrix,
against the defendants in error, to establish their title to certain
real estate in the city of New Orleans, and to recover possession thereof. The case was tried by the court without a jury
and judgment was rendered for the defendants. Upon appeal
to the Supreme Court of the State, the judgment of the Civil

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

District Court was affirmed.

To reverse that judgment of af.

firmance, the plaintiffs brought this writ of error. The pleadings and evidence disclosed the following facts:
On April 3, 1862, Bernard Avegno, being the owner of the
property in dispute, executed a mortgage thereon to Israel C.
Harris to secure promissory notes made by Avegno, payable to
his own order and indorsed by him, amounting in the aggregate to $36,500, which he delivered to Harris. The mortgage
contained thepacet de non alienando, by which the mortgagor
agreed not to sell, alienate, or encumber the mortgaged property to the prejudice of the mortgagee. The notes and mortgage were aftei'wards transferred by Harris to Charles Morgan.
The mortgage being still in force on January 20, 1865, the
United States filed, in the District Court for the District of
Louisiana, a libel of information against the mortgaged property, of which Bernard Avegno was still the owner, to condemn
it as confiscated, under the act of July 17, 1862, 12 Stat. 589,
entitled "An Act to suppress insurrection, to punish treason
and rebellion, and confiscate the property of rebels, and for
other purposes," for the offences of its owner, Avegno. A writ
of seizure was issued to the marshal, who, in his return, dated
February 14, 1865, stated that he had seized and taken into his
possession the property libelled.
Morgan, the mortgage creditor, intervened in the suit for
confiscation, claiming to be paid out of the proceeds of the
property the amount due on his mortgage. The District Court,
on August 1, 1865, made a decree condemning the property in
question as forfeited to the United States, and ordering it to be
sold, and dismissing the intervention of Morgan, on the ground
that his mortgage "could not be acknowledged." The decree
of condemnation made by the District Court was not followed
by a sale of the forfeited premises, nor were any proceedings
taken under it.
Afterwards, on June 25, 1867, Morgan filed his bill in the
Circuit Court for the District of Louisiana against Avegno, for
the enforcement of his mortgage. On July 11 following, the
court made a decree, under which, on December 2.1, 1868, the
property was sold by the marshal and purchased by Morgan,

AVEGNO v. SCHMIDT.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

to whom, on December 26, the marshal nade a deed therefor.
On March 1, 1869, Morgan conveyed the premises to the de-•
fendants.
On August 12, 1872, Bernard Avegno died, leaving the plaintiffs, who are his children, as his heirs at law. They claim title
to the property sued for under Bernard Avegno as his heirs.
The averment of their petition is, "that, by reason of such confiscation and forfeiture, all right, title, interest and ownership
of Bernard Avegno (deceased) was absolutely divested; that
said real estate was during his lifetime forfeited to the United
States,,but that the naked ownership thereof was then vested
in your petitioners, who were his legitimate children, living at
the time of the rendition of said decree and judgment of condemnation and forfeiture; that, on the 12th day of August,
1872, Bernard Avegno died, whereupon the title and interest
of the United States in the said property came to an end, and
said life estate was terminated, your petitioner, being therefore
entitled to the full ownership thereof."
Mr. Albert Voorie8 for plaintiffs in error.--The record shows
a preliminary seizure before filing the libel for confiscation, and
a subsequent seizure and actual possession by the marshal.
This will be presumed to have continued till subsequent dispossession is shown. The judgment of confiscation vested the
life estate in the United States, and the remainder in the presumptive heirs. Semmee v. United Stat, 91 U. S. 21: The
title of the presumptive heirs does not spring from the sale, but
from the forfeiture. See Wallack v. 'an Rywick, 92 U. S.
202; Pike v. awse, 94 U. S. 711 ; Frnek v. Wad-, 102 U. S.
132. Defendants are so impressed'with the legal difficulties in
the way of their title, resulting from want of proper parties in
the foreclosure proceeding, that they fall back on the pact de
*nonalienando contained in the mortgage act. There are in
the Louisiana statutes, no textual provisions defining and regulating the pact de non alienando. Hence, when the Codes
were adopted, it was at first objected that the pact itself was
inconsistent with the provisions of both Codes-of 1808 and
1825. But the courts held otherwise, placing the matter upon

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

its true basis, to wit; a contractual stipulation, which parties
are at liberty to make to the extent that the stipulation does
not conflict with, or militate against existing legislation. Ngathan v. Lee, 2 Martin, N. S. 32; Donadso'n v. Mcaurin, 1 La.
29 ; Barow v. Bank of Louisna, 2 La. Ann. 453 ; Snow v.
Tr'otter, 3 La. Ann. 268; Stanrough v. .McCall, 4 La. Ann.
324. Individuals have no right to stipulate against forced sales
of their property under judicial sanction; nor can they shield
their property against legal proceedingg for its condemnation
in cases of rebellion ;--nor can they bind government against
any expropriation for public purposes. In other words, a
debtor may bind himself by contract not to alienate his property; but he cannot tlereby estop or paralyze the action of
courts of justice, or of the government. The defendants contend that the remedy of the mortgage creditor is by foreclosure
against the confi~catee, or against him and the purchaser at the
condemnation sale. Thereis no support fbr this position: Day
v. .Afcou, 18 Wall. 156, cited in support of it, dpes not sustain
it. Morgan was a party to the suit below, by intervention,
and his claim was rejected, on the merits. -The agreement
with the District Attorney, subsequently filed, left the judgment of condemnation in full force,-and without appeal. The
record shows affirmatively that the court dismissed Morgan's
intervention upon rejection of his demand, while it sanctioned
the other claimants' demands as mortgage creditors. Defendants further contend that, before the appeal was finally disposed
of, Avegno was pardoned, and that restored to him the property in question. There is a plain answer to this. The four
lots had already been sold at the suit of MJorgan v. Avegno, and
had been purchased by the former for the amount of his mortgage notes; before the proclamation of amnesty. How then
can defendants invoke the doctrine of EHnote v. United Statesj
95 U. S.149, 1541?
Xr.Henry C. ffiller for defendants Schmidt and Ziegler.

Mr. Henry J. Leovy for Morgan's estate.

AVEGNO v. SCHMIDT.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. JUSTICE WooDs delivered the opinion of the court. He
recited the facts as above stated, and continued :
It is plain, and is not disputed by the plaintiffs, that if there
had been no proceeding instituted by the Unite4l States for the
condemnation of the property, and no intervention therein by
Morgan, he would have acquired a good title to the premises,
by his purchase thereof at the sale made under the decree of
the Circuit Court rendered upon his bill to enforce his mortgage, and his deed therefor to the defendants would have
vested in them a good and indefeasible title.
The plaintiffs 'contend, however, that the title so conveyed
is void, for two reasons, first, because the judgment of condemnation divested Avegno of all interest and estate in the forfeited premises, and the Circuit Court was, therefore, without
jurisdiction to render a decree for the sale of the property in
the suit brought to foreclose the mortgage to which Avegno
was the only defendant ; and, second, because the District
Court dismissed Morgan's intervention on the ground that his
mortgage "could not be acknowledged," and because this was,
in effect, the judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction in
a proceeding to which Morgan was a party, declaring his mortgage to be void, and he and those claiming under him were
bound by that judgment. We do not think that either of these
grounds is well taken.
The interest of Morgan as a mortgagee was not divested or
affected by'the judgment of condemnation rendered by the
District Court. -Dayv. .flcou, 18 Wall. 156; Claims of Marcuard,20 Wall. 114. Notwithstanding the judgment of condenonation, therefore, he had a valid subsisting mortgage superior to any estate in the mortgaged property acquired by the
judgment of condemnation, or which could be acquired under
a sale made by virtue thereof. A decree for the foreclosure of
his mortgage and a sale under such a decree would carry to
the purchaser the entire estate in the mortgaged premises, provided the necessary parties were made to the proceeding to
foreclose. It does not lie with the plaintiffs to object that the
United States were not made defendants to Morgan's suit.
The estate of the government in the property having been de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

termined by the death of Avegno, it is now of no concern to
any one, so far as it respects the title to the property, whether
the government was represented in the suit of Morgan to
enforce his mortgage or not. Without pointing out who were
the necessary and proper parties to such a suit, the plaintiffs
say that Avegno was neither a necessary nor a proper party,
and that as he was the sole defendant the Circuit Court was
without jurisdiction to make any decree in the suit brought by
Morgan to enforce his mortgage.
One answer of the defendants to this contention of the plaintiffs is, that the proceedings and decree of the District Court,
in the suit brought by the United States to enforce the forfeiture of the mortgaged premises, were void because there was no
sufficient averment in the libel of a preliminary seizure, by authority of the President, of the premises against which the
libel was filed, as required by the act of July 17, 1862, and that
consequently the title of Avegno was never divested, and he was
not only a necessary, but the only proper party to the suit of
Morgan to foreclose his mortgage. We have not found it
necessary to pass upon this question. Assuming that the decree of condemnation made by the District Court was valid,
its effect was to vest in the United States an estate in the prop.
erty condemned, for the life of Avegno,,and it left in Avegno
no estate or interest of any description which he could convey
by deed or devise by will; but the ownership after his death
was in nowise affected, except by placing it beyond his control
while living. Wallach v. Yan Riewick, 92 U. S.'202; Pike v.
IFassell, 94 U. S. 711, and French v. Wade, 102 U. S. 132.
The cases cited also declare that the joint resolution passed
contemporaneously With the act of July 17, 1862, 12 Stat. 627,
was intended for the benefit of the heirs of the person whose
property was condemned, to enable them to take the inheritance after his death. And in the case of Pike v. .Waeel, ubi
-supra,a bill filed during his lifetime by the children of- the
person whose life estate had been condemned and sold, to protect the property from the. encumbiance arising fr6m the fail-

ure of the purchaser of .the life esf.te to "paythe current taxes
thereon; was sustained, the -coyt di~laring .that, as there was

AVEGNO v. SCBMIDT.
Opinion of the Court.

no one else to look after the interests of the succession, the
children might be properly permitted to do so.
These decisions, alone considered, apparently sustain the contention of the plaintiffs, that a decree in a suit to foreclose the
mortgage, to which Avegno was the sole defendant, was without the necessary parties, and was, therefore, void for want of
jurisdiction in the court to render it.
The answer of the defendants to this contention of the plaintiffs is, that, as the mortgage executed by Avegno contained
the pact de non alienando,he was a proper and the only necessary party to the suit brought by Morgan to foreclose his
mortgage.
The effect of the stipulation in a mortgage called the pact de
non alenatuo,by which the mortgagor agrees not to alienate
or encumber the mortgaged premises to the prejudice of the
mortgage, is well settled in.Louisiana. In Nathan v. Lee,
2 Martin, N. S. 32, the effect was decided to be, that "the
mortgagee is not bound to pursue a third possessor, but may
have the hypothecated property seized in via exeeutina as if no
change had taken place in its possessors, because any alienation or transfer made in violation of thepa do non alienando
is ip8ojurevoid as it relates to'the creditor, and that this effect
of the pact is not annulled by the provisions of the Civil Code
in relation to mortgages, and the rules laid down -or pursuing
the action of mortgage."
In Stambaugh v. McCall, 4 La. Ann. 324, the court reviewed
the-cases on this subject, and held that where a mortgage contained the pact de non alienando, one who subsequently purchases the property from the mortgagor cannot claim to be in
any better condition than his vendor, nor can he plead any
exception which the latter could not, and that any aJienation
in violation of the pact is null as to the creditor.
These cases, and these cited in the note,* establish the rule
* Donaldgon v. Aaurin, 1 La. 29; How v. £Qollier, 14 La. 133; Lawrence v.
Burthe. 15 La. 267; Nicolet v. .Moreau,13 La. 313 ; Guenardv. Soulie, 8 La.
Ann. 58 Sucremion of Vancourt, 11 La. Ann. 383 ; Smith v. Nettle, 13 La.
; Murphy v. Jandot, 2 Rob. La. 378; New Orleans a8 Light &
Ann.
Bankimg Co. v. Allen, 4 Rob. La. 389; Dodd v. Crain, 6 Rob. La. 58.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

that where a mortgage contains the pact de non alimando the
mortgagee may enforce his mortgage by proceeding against
the mortgagor alone, notwithstanding the alienation of the
property, and that all those claiming under the mortgagor,
whether directly or remotely, will be bound, although not
made parties,
In the present case, and in the later case of Shiedd8 v. Schif,
36 La. Ann. 645, the Supreme Court of Louisiana has held that
there was such a privity between a person whose life estate
had been condemned under the act of July 17, 1862, and his
heirs, that the latter were bound by a suit and decree to enforce a mortgage executed by their ancestor containing the
.pactde non alienando,to which the ancestor alone had been
made a party defendant.
We think this decision is right. It is sustained by the case
of Wallah v. Van .Riswi7, ubi siupra, as will appear by the
following passages fom the opinion of the court in that case,
delivered by Mr. Justice Strong:
"If it be contended that the heirs of Charles S. Wallach,"
the person whose property had been condemned, "cannot take
by descent unless their father, at his death, was seized of an
estate of inheritance, e. g., reversion or a remainder, it may be
answered, that even at common law it ws not always necessary that the ancestor should be seized to enable the heir to
take by descent. Shelley's case is, that where the ancestor
might have taken and been seized the heir shall inherit. Fortescue, J., in Thornby v. "leetwood, 1 Str. 318.
"If it were true that at common law the heirs could not take
in any case where their ancestor was not seized at his death, the
present case must be determined by the statute. Charles S. Wallach was seized of the entire fee of the land before its confiscation, and the act of Congress interposed to take from him that
seizin for a limited time. That it was competent to do, attaching
the limitation for the benefit of the heirs. It wrought no corruption of blood. In Lord de la Warre's Case, 11 Coke, 1 a,
it was resolved by the justices 'that there was a difference betwixt disability personal and temporary, and a disability absolute and perpetual; as where one is attainted of treason or-

AVEGNO v. SCHMIDT.
Opinion of the Court.

felony, that is an absolute and perpetual disability, by corruption of blood, for any of his posterity to claim any inheritance
in fee simple, either as heir to him orto any ancestor above him;
but when one is disabled by Parliament (without iny attainder)
to claim the dignity for his life, it is a personal disability for
his life only, and his heir, after his death, may claim as heir to
him or to any ancestor above him.' There is a close analogy
between that case and the present."
"Without pursuing this discussion further, we repeat, that to
hold that any estate or interest remained in Charles S. Wallach
after the confiscation and sale of the land in controversy, would
defeat the avowed purpose of the confiscation act and the only
justification for its enactment; and to hold that the joint resolution was not intended for the benefit of his heirs exclusively,
to enable them to take the inheritance after his death, would
give preference to the guilty over the innocent. We cannot so
hold."
These extracts show that it was the opinion of the court that
the children of a person whose estate was condemned under
the act of July 17, 1862, took, at his death, by descent as his
heirs, the fee simple, and did not derive their title from the
United States, or by virtue of the confiscation act.
Avegno, the mortgagor, was, therefore, the only person necessary to be made a party to the suit brought by Morgan to
foreclose his mortgage, and the proceedings and sale were valid
and binding on the plaintiffs, and vested in Morgan a good
title to the premises in dispute, which he conveyed to the defendants.
But the plaintiffs insist that the mortgage had been declared
inoperative and void by the.District Court in dismissing the intervention of Morgan in the proceeding to condemn the mortgaged property, and that the defendants are bound by that
judgment. There are two answers to this contention. The
first is that this defence, if it be a defence, should have been
pleaded in Morgan's suit brought to enforce his mortgage.
The decree of a court of competent jurisdiction cannot be collaterally attacked by averring and proving that there was a
good defence to the suit if the defendant had chosen to make

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

it. The second answer is that the District Court was without
jurisdiction to pass upon the validity of the mortgage in the
suit for the condemnation of the mortgaged property. Bigelow v. Forrest, 9 Wall. 339; Day v. Mieou, 18 Wall. 146;
Claims of Marcuard,20 Wall. 114. It does not clearly appear
from the record that the District Court intended by its decree
dismissing the intervention of Morgan to pass upon the validity of the mortgage; but if its decree is to be interpreted as
declaring the mortgage to be invalid and void, the court exceeded its jurisdiction, and the decree was without effect upon
the mortgage.
In our opinion, therefore, Morgan acquired a good title to
the premises in controversy by his purchase at the sale made to
satisfy his mortgage lien, and his deed to the defendants having vested them with his title, the judgment of the Supreme
Court of Louisiana in their favor was right.
dgm-ent afrmed.

STONE v. CHISOLM & Others.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
Submitted January 5, 1885.-Decided February 2, 1885.

A suit in equity is the proper remedy, in the courts of the United States, to
enforce the statutory liability of directors to a creditor of a corporation,
(organized under the act of the legislature of South Carolina of December 10, 1869), by reason of the debts of the corporation being in excess
of the capital stock. An action at 1aw will not'lie.

This was a writ of error prosecuted to reverse a judgment of
the Circuit Court for the District of South Carolina, dismissing
the complaint, in which the plaintiff asked for a recovery for
the sum of $1,050, with interest from July 1, 1883. The jurisdiction of this court depended upon and:was limited by a certificate of division of opinion between the Circuit and District

