OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabus.

an assignee of the judgment or decree, to the extent of his fees,,
from the date of its rendition. This right of the solicitors is superior to any which the defendant corporations acquired, subsequent to the decree, by the purchase of the claims of unsecured
creditors.
It remains only to consider whether the sum allowed appellees was too great. We think it was. The decree -gave them
an amount equal to ten per cent. upon the aggregate principal
and interest of the bonds and coupons filed in the cause, excluding those in respect of which there was, between appellees
and complainants and others, special contracts for compensation. It is shown that appellees h & with the complainants
contracts for small retaihers and five per cent. upon the sums
realized by the suit. We perceive no reason for this discrimination against creditors who were not parties except by filing
their claims after decree. One-half the sum allowed was, under all the circumstances, sufficient.
For the error last mentioned
The decree is reversedand the cause remanded,with direction8
to nodify the decree 8o as to award to appelZee only the
sum, of .$17,580, with interestfrom .March7, 1881, with the
benefit of the lien vpon the property as established by the'
decree. Each party will pay his co8t in this court, and
one-half the co8t of printing the record.

STEELE v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF (9fIS.
Submitted Dccember 22, 1884.-Decided January 19,1885.

A private sale of old material arising from the breaking up of a vessel of war,
made by an officer of the Navy Department to a contractor for repairs of a
war vessel and machinery, is a violation of the provisions of ยง l541 Rev.
Stat.
The allowance of the estimated'value of such material in the settlement of

STEELE v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.
such contractor's accounts is a violation of the provisions of ยง 8618 Rev.
Stat.
A settlement of such accounts at the Navy Department and at the Treasury,
in which the contractor was debited with the material at the estimated
value, does not preclude the United States from showing that the estimates were far below the real value, and from recovering the difference between the amount allowed and the real value.
Delay in enforcing a claim arising out of an illegal sale of property of the
United States, at v value far below its real worth, cannot be setup as a bar
to the recovery of its value.

This was an appeal from the Court of Claims. See 19 C. Cl.
182. The facts are stated ii the opinion of the court.
Mr. W. AD. Davidge and XM. ?. B. 1F48tington, for appellants.
.Xr.Solicitor-General, for appellee.
'WooDs delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellant was the claimant in the Court of Claims. He.
brought his suit April 30, 188.0, to recover from the United
States the sum of $3,400 for plumbing done by him.on the
United States Steamfship Quinnebaug under a contract made
with I. Hanscom, the'Chief of the Bureau of Construction and
Repair of the Nivy Department, on behalf of the government,
in the year 1875. There was no dispute that there was due to
him on his contract for work done the sum sued for. The
controversy arose on a plea of cross-demand, filed by the
United States, which alleged that the officers of the government delivered to the appellant a large amount of old material to be utilized and reworked by him for the plumbing of
the Quinnebaug; that a small portion of the material thus
delivered he reworked for that purpose, but the greater porMn. JusTin

tion thereof .

. he sold to third parties, realizing therefrom

the sum of $20,000.
The Court of Claims found that during the spring and summer of the year 1875, there were delivered to the appellant, by
R. W. Steele, who was a naval constructor in the United States
Navy, 103,949 pounds of old material resulting from the
VOr,. cxu-9

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Cqut.

breaking up of certain monitors; that before such delivery
there had been no survey or inspection of the old material, and
that of the amount so delivered the appellant sold, and disposed of 98,748 pounds, for which he received money and
property to the amount of $8,975.56, and the residue was lost
in breaking up, handling, and sorting. These findings fully
established the cross-demand of the government for $8,975.56.
The court, therefore, in adjusting the controversy, after. charging the appellant with a payment on his claim of $3,900 and
another item for $300, about neither of which there was any
dispute, held him liable for the amount so received by him for
the old material, which was sufficient to extinguish his claim,
and leave a balance of $3,575.56 due the United States. The
court therefore rendered judgment against him for thatamount,
and from that judgment the present appeal is taken.
Upon the facts above stated, it is clear that the judgment of
the Court of Claims was right. But the appellant insists that
the other faots found by the court show that it was in error,
and that its judgment should have been for the appellant
for the amount of the claim for which fiis suit was brought.
These facts were as follows: In the. latter part of March or
early in April, 1875, the appellant had an interview, in the city
of Washington, with Isaiah Hanscom, Chief of the Bureau of
Construction and Repair in, the Navy Department, at which
the two came to some verbal understanding that the appellant
was to do the necessary plumbing on the United States Steamship Quinnebaug, which was then on the ways in the I hiladelphia Naavy Yard, and that Hanscom gave the appellant verbal
instructions to go on with the work. In the same interview
the matter of using on the Quinnebaug old material taken out
of other vessels was talked of, and Hanscom spoke of the material as being worth $2,000, but it did not appear what material or what quantity of material was referred to. Afterwards,
on April 6, 1875, the appellant wrote a letter to. Hanscom, in
which he offered to furnish all the material and labor necessary
for the plumbing of the Quinnebaug for $14,500, and. take m
whole or part payment any brass or lead from old vessels that
he could use for that purpose.

STEELE v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

Onthe receipt of this letter, Hanscom directed Edward Hartt,
who was a naval constructoron duty at the Philadelphia Navy
Yard, to draw up specifications for the plumbing to be done
on the Quinnebaug, and to solicit proposals therefor. Proposals
were accordingly called for and received by the Bureau of
Construction and Repair, but the proposal contained in the appellant's letter of April 6th was the lowest bid for the work.
On April 15, 1875, Hlanscom sent an order in writing to
Naval Constructor R. W. Steele tQ have all the old lead, brass
and composition arising from the breaking up of the monitors,
naming them, weighed, boxed up, and sent to Philadelphia, and
to report the amount to the Bureau. The officer to whom the
order was addressed, interpreting it as authority from the Bureau to deliver to the appellant the old material therein referred
to, delivered it to him, and the appellant received the 103,949
pounds of such material heretofore mentioned as the property
of the United States. On July 9, 1875, Naval Constructor R.
W. Steele wrote to Hanscom that he had delivered the oldmaterial to the appellant, that itwas estimated to be worth $2,000,
which sum would be deducted from the first payment due him
for his work. He added : "I beg to say that it was impossible
to arrive at a satisfactory estimate of itsvalue when appraised;
there was much alloy and dirt mixed with it, and the cost of
transportation and labor in separating and preparing it for use
is not known, which makes it necessary to correct the value
after I obtain full information on the subject, and before ]ils
contract is completed and adjusted." Naval Constructor Steele
was led to put this estimate upon the value of the old material
by the statement made to him by Naval Constructor Hartt,
who was superintending the plumbing on the Quinnebaug, that
he supposed its value to be $2,000. But it did not appear that
Hartt had ever seen any: of the 103,949 pounds of old material,
but he assumed its value to be $2,000, and so set it down in an
account book in his office, and so charged it against the:appellant in the settlement of the account of -the latter.
On July 30, 1875, Hanscom, as Chief of the Bureau Df Construction and Repair, wrot6.to the appellant declining his proposal to do the plumbing woik on the Quinnebaug for $14,500,

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

and offered to pay him therefor the sum of $12,000, but with
the following stipulation: "The old materials the government
will furnish you to be reworked; which have accumulated from
the breaking up of the light-draft monitors," naming them,
"Will go towards the materials used in this work; the balance
to be paid in two equal payments, in money, on the certificate
of the naval constructor superintending the work that the work
is satisfactorily completed, according to the specifications which
will be furnished." The appellant accepted this proposition by
letter, dated August 2, 1875. There was no proof that he did
any work on the Quinnebaug until after this correspondence.
Upon these facts the contention of the appellant is that the
court should -have charged him with the value of the old material at $2,000, and not at $8,975.56. This contention is based
on the ground that Naval Constructor iR.W. Steele, in his letter to Hanscom, dated July 9, 1875, estimated the old material, delivered to the appellant, to be worth $2,000, and stated
thht this sum would be deducted from his first paymdnt, and
that Naval Constructor Hartt so charged it against him at that
sum in the settlement of appellant's account.
. We think this an inadequate reason for allowing the appellant to appropriate for $2,000 property of the United States,
which it is shown he disposed of for $8,975.56. Therehad been
no inspection or appraisement by any officer of the United
States of the old material delivered to the claimant, but merely
a loose estimate of its value by Naval Constructor Hartt, who
had never seen it, and there was no contract between the ap-

pellant and the United States which bound the latter to deliver
this old material at the estimate put upon it by IHartt, or to
deliver what was not used on the Quinnebaug at all.
The contract between the parties was that made by the offer
contained in the letter of Hanscom to the appellant of July 30,
1875,and its acceptance by the appellant in his letter to Hanscom,- dated August 2 following. These letters are set out in the
appellant's petition 'as expressing the contract which was the
basis of his cause of action. The previous verbal understanding referred to in the findings of the Court of Claims was
merged in it.

STEELE v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

It Is clear from the terms of the proposition made by Hanscom to the appellant on July 30, 1875, and accepted by the
latter on August 2, that it was only such old material as could
be reworked in the plumbing of the Quinnebaug that was to
be transferred to the appellant, and its value deducted from
the contract price of the work. There was no offer on the
part of Hanscom to deliver to the appellant old material which
could not be used on the Quinnebaug in payment of the stipulated price for his work. Even if such had been the contract
it would have been uniauth&ized, for ยง 1541 Rev. Stat. provides
that !'the Secretary of the Navy is authorized and directed to
sell, at public sale, such vessels and materials of the United
States Navy as, in his judgment cannot be advantageously
used, repaired, or fitted out; and he shall, at the opening of
each session of Congress, make a full report to Congress of all
vessels and materials sold, the parties buying the same, and the
amount realized therefrom, together with such other facts as
may be necessary to a full understanding of his acts." ยง 3618
provides that "all proceeds of old material .
.
shall be
deposited and covered into the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts, on account of 'proceeds of government property,' and
shall not be withdrawn or applied except in consequence of a
subsequent appropriation made by law.."
These sections confer upon the Secretary of the Navy the
only authority by which he can dispose of the materials of the
United States navy. When in the judgment of the Secretary
they can be advantageously used they must be used; when
they cannot be so used they must be sold at public sale and'tie
proceeds covered into the treasury. No 'officer of the Navy
Department had any authority, therefore, to deliver to the
appellant the materials of the navy to be sold by him and to
allow him to put the proceeds into his own pocket.
If we yield to the contention of the appellant we should be
required to hold that an officer of the navy could, without inspection or appraisement, trade off to a contractor in payment
of the money due him on his contract, not only materials of
every description, but even the vessels of the United States,
when in his judgment they could not be advantageously used,

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
'Opinion of the Cort.

repaired, or fitted out. It appears, therefore, that the appellant
was not entitled, by the terms of his contract, to the material
delivered to and sold by him, and if his contract had so provided, it would have been without authority of the statute, and
therefore void.
The case of the appellant is not aided by the fact of the delivery to him, before the written contract was made, of the old
material in question. The delivery was without any authority
of the Navy Department, and to put it in the most favorable
light for the appellant, the delivery was made to him by mistake. But whether with or without authority of the Department, if it was intended to vest in the appellant any title to the,
material, it was without authority of law and cannot be set up
as a ground of any right in him.
The case, therefore, comes to this: The appellant claims to
hold without accounting therefor, except at less than one-fourth
its value, the proceeds of old material belonging to the navy
of the United States, which had been delivered to him without
the sanction of law, and to which he had no title either by
contract or otherwise. The property was the property of the
United States, and the appellant must be held accountable for
its full value:
The fact that the account of thee appellant was settled by the
officers of the Navy Department, by charging him with the
value of the old material at $2,000, is no bar to the recovery of
its real value by the government. The whole transaction was
illegal, and appellant is chargeable with knowledge of the fact.
It was in effect a private sale of the property of the' United
States without survey, inspection, or appraisement, at a grossly
inadequate price. The fact that the account had been settled
by the officers of the Navy Department did not cure the unauthorized acts. Both the disposition of the property and the
settlement of the account were without authority of law. and
not binding on the govepment.
Nor can laches. in not objecting to the settlement of the
appellant's account at an earlier time be imputed to the United
States, and set up as a bar to the recovery of the value of the
property unlawfully a-ppropriated. This is a case for the appli-

ACKLEY SCHOOL DISTRICT v. HALL.
Statement of Facts.

cation of the rule nuatin empk occurit regf. Zindey v.
.AfiI/er, 6 Pet. 666, 669; Ch8on v. Ohouteau, 13 Wall. 92.

Judgment afflirmed.

ACKLEY SCHOOL DISTRICT v. HALL.
IN ERROR TO TM CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITE

STATES FOR TM

DISTRICT OF IOWA.
Argued December 2, 3, 1884.-Decided January 19,1885.

A municipal bond, issued under the authority of law, for the payment, at all
events, to a named person or order, a fixed sum of money, at a designated
time therein limited, being indorsed in blank, is a negotiable security within
the law merchant.
Its negotiability is not affected by a provision of the statute under which it was
issued, that it should be "payable at the-pleasure of the district at any time
before due."
Consistently with the act of March 3, 1875, determining the jurisdiction of the
Circuit Courts of the United States, the holder may sue thereon without refere ,ce to the citizenship of any prior holder, and unaffected by the circumstance that the municipality may be entitled to make a defence, based upon
equities between the original parties..
An act of the Legislature of Iowa entitled "An Act to authorize independent
school districts to borrow money and issue bonds therefor, for the purpose
of erecting and completing school houses, legalizing bonds heretofore issued,
and making school orders draw six per cent. interest in certain cases," is not
in violation of the provision in the Constitution of that State, which declares
that "every act shall embrace but one subject and matters properly connected therewith, which subject shall be expressed in the title."

This was a suit to recover principal and interest claimed to
be due the defendant in error, on negotiable bonds issued by
the plaintiff in error.

By an act of 'the General Assembly of the State of Iowa,
approved April 6, 1868, it was provided that independent school
districts should have power an. authority to borrow money for
the purpose of erecting and completing school-houses, "by

