HESS v. REYNOLDS.
Sy]labus.

had been paid, attracted the general attention of the revenue
department, the answer to the problem of prevention was
found by immediate inference from the existing regulations, in
the adoption of the expedient now in question. As soon as
the mischief became apparent, and the remedy was seriously
and systematically studied by those competent to deal with the
subject, the present regulation was promptly suggested and
adopted, just as a skilled mechanic, witnessing the performance
of a machine, inadequate, by reason of some defect, to accomplish the object for which it had been designed, by the application of his common knowledge and experience, perceives the
reason of the failure, and. supplies what is obviously wanting.
It is but the'display of the expected skill of the calling, and
.involves only the exercise of the ordinary faculties of reasoning
upon the materials supplied by a special knowledge, and the
facility of manipulation which results from its habitual and
intelligent practice; and is in no sense the creative work of
that inventive faculty which it is the purpose of -the Constitution and the patent laws to encourage and reward.
On this ground
M7zdecree of the Circuit Court i'8 ,evered,and thecauge remanded, with directione to enter a decree dimigging the
bill.

HESS v. REYNOLDS, Administrator.
IN

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNID STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAW.
Submitted December 9, 1884.-Decided January 5, 1885.

A proceeding in a State court against an administrator, to obtain payment of a
debt due by the decedent in his lifetime, is Yemovable into a court of the
United States, when the creditor and the administrator are citizens of different States, notwithstanding the State statute may enact that such claims
can only be established in a Probate Court of the State, or by appeal from
that court to some other State court.
The act of March 8, 1875, to determine the jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Argument for Defendant in Error.
and regulate the removal of causes from State courts, does not repeal or
supersede all other statutes on those subjects, but only such as are in conflict with this latter statute. The third clause of section 689 of the Revised
Statutes is not, therefore, abrogated or repealed.
An application for removal under that clause is in time, if made before the trial
or final hearing of the.cause in the State court.
The report of commissioners to whom a claim has been referred by a Probate
Court under the statutes of Michigin, is not such final hearing within the
meaning of that section.
The removal in all cases is into the Circuit Court of the District, which embraces territorially the State court in which the suit is pending at the time
of the removal, without regard to the place where it originated.

The record shows that plaintiff in error, who was a citizen of
Missouri, prosecuted his claim in the Probate Court of Ionia
County, Michigan, against the estate of Warren Sherwood, deceased, of which William Reynolds had been appointed administrator. The claim being resisted, was, in due course of
proceeding, referred to commissioners appointed by the probate
judge, who reported against its allowance. Thereupon Hess,
as the Michigan statute authorized, appealed to the Circuit
Court of Ionia County, where he was entitled to a trial by jury.
The judge of that court having been counsel for the administrator in the case, it was, by proper order, removed to the
Circuit Court of Jackson County after a delay of several years,
and from that court into the Circuit Court of the United States,
on the affidavit of Hess that he had reason to believe, and did
believe, that, from prejudice and, local influence, he would not
be able to obtain justice in said State court.
The Circuit Court remanded the cause to the State court
from which it had been removed; and this writ of error was
brought to that judgment.
Mr&. Henry .3ewbegi, and Mr. B. B. Kng8bury for.plaintiff
in error.
. Edgar . -Yarb e for defendant in error.-Under the
statutes of Michigan, no process can issue from the State. court
to collect the claim. The determination of the State. court is
certified to the PrQbate Court and .claims paid upon the- basis

HESS v. REYNOLDS.
Opinion of the Court.

of the allowance made. This adjustment of each claim is in
no sense a suit between parties in the meaning of the Removal
Act. Wed v. Aurora, 6 Wall 139,142; Du 7 ivier v..ffopkins,
116 Mass. 125, 128. When a case is legally removed, the
jurisdiction of the State court ceases for all purposes, and the
suit cannot be remanded to the State court for any purpose.
anouee v. .fartin, 15 How. 198; Inuranme Co. v. Dunn, 19
Wall. 214:; .2aAone v..Railroad Co.,.l1l Mass. 72; Partridge
v. Ineurance Co., 15 Wall. 573; D)u Vivier v. Bopkin, above
cited. In this case a remand would be necessary, in order to
enforce, according to Michigan laws, any judgment which
might be rendered. Even if the cause was removable, the
application for the removal caine too late. The statutes of
Michigan provided for ttie appointment of commissioners by
the Probate Court to examine and adjust claims against estates
of deceased persons. All claims must be presented to the
commissioners. They act judicially, and their judgment is final
if not appealed from. Streeter v. _Paton, 7 Mich. 341, 346;
.Fi v. Yor8e, 8 Mich. 34; -Clark V.Davi8l 32 Mich. 154, 157 ;
Sher3urn v. Hooper,40 Mich. 503. The-claimant presented his
claim to 'such commissioners. They passed upon it. This
brings his case within Stevenson v. - iliams, 19 Wall. 572,
which is'decisive. 'The late Mr. Justice Swayne, at Circuit for
the Eastern District of Michigan in August, 1878, decided this
point in accordance with our views. In re Fraser,18 Albany
Law Journal, 353. The case of Du Yivier v. Hopkins, above
cited, is also exactly in point, as the Michigan and Massachusetts
statutes are substantially alike. See also Gaines v.Fuentes,
92 U. S. 10; BroderioCVs Will, 21 Wall. 503;

Yonley v.

Lavender, 21 Wall. 276; Tarve' v. Tarver, 9 Pet. 174;
.Fouvergne v. -ew Orleans, 18 How. 470.
Mn. JusnEn MILLER delivered the opinion of the court. He
recited the facts as above stated, and continued:
The first objection to the removal is that the -proceeding in
the State court, which was commenced in the Probate Court
to obtain payment of a claim against the estate of a decedent,
then under administration in that court, was within the exclusive

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

jurisdiction of the State court, and could not be transferred to
a court of the United States.
This proposition has been often asserted here and as often
denied.
It is not denied that the laws of the States are valid whiph
provide for the descent and distribution of property of a decedent, for the proof and registration of wills, for the collection
of debts due to the decedent, and the payment of the debts
which he owed at the time of his death. Nor is it denied that
such courts as Ire usually called probate courts are rightfully
vested in a general way with. authority to supervise the collection of these debts and other assets, the _payment of the
debts of the decedent, and to. make distribution of the remainder.
But the estate of a decedent is neither a person nor a corporation. It can neither sue nor be sued. It consists-of property,
or rights to property, the title of which passes on his death,
with right of possession, according to the varying laws of the
States, to executors of a will, administrators of estates, heirs or
devisees, as the case may be.
These parties represent in -their respective characters the
rights which hve devolved on them -in any controversy, legal
or equitable, which may become a matteni of judicial contest
with other parties having coniflicting interests. In regard to
controversies with debtors and creditors, the executor, if there
be -awill, or the administrator, if one has been appointed, represents the rights and, the obligationd which had been those of
the deceased. The right of the administrator or executor to sue
in the ordinary courts of the country to enforce the payment
of debts owing the decedent in his lifetime, and unpaid at his
death, has always been recognized; and it is believed that no
system of administering the estates of decedents has changed
this principle.
The courts of the United States have always been open to
such actions when the requisite citizenship exists, and for this
purpose the citizenship of the administrator or executor controls,
and not that of the decedent'
So, also, until recent times, the administrator or executor was

HESS v. REYNOLDS.
Opinion of the Court.

liable to' be sued in the ordinary courts, whether State or
national, on obligations contracted by the decedent, and such is
probably the law of-most of the States of the Union at this day.
To such a suit the administrator could, at common law, have
pleaded that there were no assets in his hands unadministered,
or he could have denied the cause of adtion set up by plaintiff.
How fa a denial of assets would be a good plea now, depends
on the atutes of the various States and the various modes of'
obtaining equality of distribution among creditors, where there
is not enough to pay alL
Such suits, in the absence of any controlling law, can be
brought, and have been brought, ia the courts of the United
States, where the requisites of jurisdiction between the parties
exist.. This jurisdiction of the courts of the United States, in
controversies between citizens of different States, cannot be
ousted or annulled by statutes of the States, assuming to confer
it exclusively on their own courts.
It may be convenient that all debts to be paid out of the
assets of a deceased man's estate, shall be established in the
court to which the law of the domicil has confided the general administration of these assets. And the courts of the
United States will pay respect to this principle, in the execution
of the process enforcing their judgments out of these assets, so
far as the demands of justice require. But neither the principle of convenience; nor the statutes of a State, can deprive
them of jurisdiction to hear and determine a controversy between citizens of different States, when such a coptroversy is
distinctly presented, because the judgment may affect the administration or distribution in another forum of the assets of
the detedent's estate. The controverted question of debt or. no
debt is one which, if the representative of the decedent is a
citizen of a State different from that of the other party, the
party properly situated has a right, given by the Constitution
of the United States, to have tried originally, or by removal in a
court of the United States, which cannot be defeated by State
statutes enacted for the more convenient settlement of estates
of decedents.
These views have been expressed by this court in many cases,

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

where they were proper grounds for the decisions made. The
latest of them, in which the others are reviewed with care, is
that of Ellis v. Davis, 109 U. S. 485, in which the opinion was
delivered by Mr. Justice Matthews. Among the cases there
cited with approval is that of Gaines v. Fuentes, 92 U. S. 10.
That was a suit brought in the Second District Court, for the
Parish of Orleans, which, by the laws of Louisiana, was vested
with jurisdiction over estates of deceased persons and probate
of wills: It was brought to annul the will of Daniel Clark, and
to set aside the decree of the court by which it was admitted
to probate.
Application for removal of the case into the Circuit Court
for the United States, on the ground of prejudice and local influence, under the act of 1867, as in the case now before the
court, was refused, though the requisite citizenship of t'h
parties was shown. The action of the District Court having
been affirmed in the Supreme Courtof that State, the case was
brought here on the allegation of error in refusing to grant the
order of removal. The same argument was advanced in favor
of the exclusive jurisdiktion of the State court as in the brief
of the counsel in the present case.- But this court said: "The
Constitution imposes no limitation upon the class of c.ases involving controversies 'between citizens of different States, to
which the judicial power of the 'United States may be extended; and Congress may, therefore, lawfully provide for
bringing, at the option of either of the parties, all such controversies within the jurisdiction of the federal judiciary.
And if by the law obtaining in the State, customary or statutory, they can be maintained in a State court,
whatever designation that court may bear, we :think they may
be maintained by original process in a Federal court where
the parties are, on the one side, citizens of Louisiana, and on the
other, citizens of other States." This court reversed the judgment of the Louisiana courts, and held that the application for
the removal should hav'e been granted, and ordered the case to
be remanded to the .arish ]it'tricf Co.urt, with directions to
make the transfer. -The cases of -Paynev. Hook, 7 Wall. 425,
vow.
170, are to the same effect. In
and Hyde v. tnne, 20

HESS v. REYNOLDS.
Opinion of the Court.

the latter case the court said, with much force and propriety,
that it had "repeatedly decided that the jurisdiction of the
courts of the United States over controversies between citizens
of different States cannot be impaired by the laws of te States
which prescribe the modes of redress in iheir courts or which
regulate the distribution of their judicial rower."
The case of the Boom Co. v. Patterson,98 U. S. 403, is also in
point. That was a special -roceeding to condemn property
under laws of the State of Minnesota in the exercise of the
right of eminent domain, which, commencing before special
commissioners to assess damages, was by appeal brought into a
court of general jurisdiction, and from there removed, rightfully as this court held, into the Circuit Court of the United
States.
The case before us was one removable into the court of the
United States.
The next objection to the removal is, that the application
was made too late.
If thg case is only removable under theact of 1875, and if
that statute repeals or supersedes all other statutes for the
removal of causes from the State courts into the Circuit Courts
of the United States, then the motion was made too late, for
there was a period of five years in the Circuit Court of Ionia
County during all which time the case stood for trial. See
Pullman Palace Car Co. v. .pece and others, post, 81.
But though such has often in argument been asserted to be
the effect of the act of 1875, the language of the repealing
clause of it is not so comprehensive. That language is, "That
all acts and parts of acts in conflict with the provisions of this
act are hereby repealed." This implies very strongly that
there may be acts on the same subject which are not thereby
repealed.
The usual formula of a repealing clause intended to be universal is, that all acts on this subject, or all acts coming within
its purview, are .repealed, or the acts intended to be repealed
are named or specifically referred to. In this case the effect of
the statute as a repeal by implication, arising from inconsistency of provisions, or.from the supposed intention of the legis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court

lature to substitute one new statute for all prior legislation on
that subject, is not left to its usual operations, but, the statute
to be repealed must be in conflict with .the act under consideration or that effect does not follow. And this was wise,
for Congress well knew that theie were many provisions of
the laws for such removals, which might or might not come
under the provisions of the act of 1875, and which might be exercised under regulations different from .that statute, and accordingly these were left to stand, so far as they did not conflict with that act.
The provisions of the act of 1867, by which removals are
authorized on the ground of prejudice and local influence, are
embodied in the Revised Statutes in the third clause of section
639. It declares that in such a case, with the requisite citizenship, when the non-resident party fils the proper affidavit, at
any time befbre the trial or final hearing of the suit, it shall be
removed. We do not think this provision is embraced in the
act of 1875, which says nothing about prejudice or local 'influence, and is not in conflict with that act. We are of opinion
that this clause of section 639 remains, and is complete in itself,
furnishing its own peculiar cause of removal, and prescribing,
for,reasons appropriate to it, the time within which it must be
done. One of these reasons is, that the prejudice may not exist
at the beginning, or the hostile local influence may not become known or developed at an earlier stage of the proceedings. Congress, therefore, intended 'to provide against this
local hostility, whenever it existed, up to the time of the trial.
It is gaid, however, that the trial spoken of had taken place
before the commissioneri of Ionia County, to whom the case
had been referred. But we do not look at that proceeding as
a trial within the meaning of the statute. It was merely a
report, subject to be affirmed or rejected by the probate judge,
and, by the express terms of the statute, subject to a right -of
appeal to a court in which a trial by jury could be had. The
latter was the. trial or final hearing of the suit which would
conclude the right of removal, and until 8uch trial commenced
the right of removal under this provision remained.
It is argued that the cause should have been removed to the

POLLEYS -. BLACK RIVER CO.
Syllabus.

Circuit Court for the-Western District of Michigan instead of
the Eastern, because the county of Ionia, in which the suit
originated, is in the former.
But the language of the removal statute is, that suits shallbe removed into the Circuit Court of the district where tuch
suits are pending. Undoubtedly-this means where they are'
pending at the time of removal. This suit was not then pending in the Western District of Michigan, but in the County of
Jackson, which is in the Eastern District of that State.
We are of opinion that the case was properly removed from
the Circuit Court of Jackson County into the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Eastern District of Michigan, and
that that court erred in remanding it.
It judgment i8 therefore revermsed, with inmt"uction-8 to Imoceed in the case according to law.
MR.

JusTICE

GRAY dissented.

POLLEYS v. BLACK RIVER IMPROVEMENT COMPANY.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRuCrr COURT OF WISCONSIN FOR THE COUNTY
OF LACROSSE.
Submitted November 17, 1884.-Decided January 12, 1885.

In error to a Scate court, the writ may be directed to an inferior court if the
Supreme Court of the State, without retaining a copy, remits the whole
record to that court with direction to enter a final judgment in the case.
The Statute of Limitations for writs of eiror, ยง 1008 Rev. Stat., begiA to run
from the date of the entry and filing of the judgment in the court's proceedings, which constitutes the evidence of the judgment.

This was a motion to dismiss a writ of error, as brought too
late. The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. S. U. Pinney for the motion.
Mr. X P. Tr ing and .r. 1. C. Sloan opposing.
VOL. CXI-6

