oCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

and none such can be allowed, if another reasonable and consistent construction is to be found.
It is not necessary or proper to cbfsider-any question in
volved in any right of redemption. Nor is it intended to clecide anything as to the status of any of the .property, aside
from the lawfulness of the manner of its sale, under the statute
in regard to such sale.
'The decree of the Circuit Court is

UNITED STATES v. JORDAN.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Submitted January26, 1885.-Decided March i0, I885.

Under the act of Congress of July 29, 1882. 22 Stat. 723, ch. 359, providing

for the refunding to the persons therein named of the amount of taxes assessed upon and collected from them contrary to the provisions of the regulations therein mentioned, "that is to say. to" each of such persons the
sum set opposite his name, each of them is entitled to be paid the whole of
that sum, and no discretion is vested in the Secretary of the Treasury, or in
any court, to determine whether the sum specified was or was not the
amount of &tax assessed contrary to the provisions of such regulations.

The facts which make the case are stated in the opinion of
the court.
.Mf. Assitant Attorney-GeneraZ f aury for.appellant.
.Mr. Char/es F. Benjamin for appellee.

Y.R

JUSTiCE BLATcHFoim delivered the opinion of the court.
On the 29th of July, 1882, an act of Congress.was passed,
22 Stat. 723, ch. 359; providing "that the Secretary of the
Treasury, be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to remit, refund and pay back, out of any moneys in the treasury
not otherwise appropriated, to the following named citizens of

UNITED STATES v. JORDAN.
Opinion of the Court.

Tennessee, or the legal representatives of such as are deceased,
thie amount of taxes assessed upon and collected from 'the said
named persons contrary to the provisions of the regulations
issued by the Secretary of the Treasury, under date of June.
twenty-first, eighteen hundred and sixty-five, and published in
special circular numbered sixteen, from the Internal Revenue
office, of that date, said refunding having been recommended by
the Secretary of the Treasury, under date of -Tune nineteenth,
eighteen hundred and seventy-three, that is to say, to "-followed by the names of 81 persons, and the specification of a
sum of money opposite each name, and, among thom, this: "to
Edward L. Jordan, two thousand two hundred and ninety dollars;

.

.

.

all of Rutherford County, Tennessee;

said persons, and each of them~having filed their claims in the
office of the Commissioner of Internal Revenue prior to the
sixth of June, eighteen hundred and seventy-three."
Afterwards, and on the 6th of- September, 1882, the acting
Commissioner of Internal Revenue transmitted to the Secretary
of the Treasury, for his action, the claim of Edward L. Jordan,
to be paid $2,290, under the act. On that letter, under date
of September 11, 1882, the acting Secretary of the Treasury
indorsed an order directing that Jordan be paid that sum.
He was paid one-half, of it, $1;145, on November 2, 1882, but
payment of anything more was refused. On the 1st of December, 1882, he brought a suit against the United States, in
the Court of Claims, to recover the remaining $1,145. On
December 7,1882, the Secretary of the Treasury indorsed on
the order of September 11, 1882, the following: "The foreconstrued to mean only
going order of September 11, 1882, fis
that such sums shall be refunded or paid as were collected from
the persons within named contrary to the provisions of the
regulations issued by the Secretary of the Treasury under date
of June 21, 1865, mentioned in said act, and effect is to be
given to said order accordingly." The Court of Claims gave
judgment for the claimant for $1,145, 19 C. C1. 108, and the
United States have appealed.
At the request of the counsel for the defendants, the court
found the following facts:

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

"Claimant resided in the second collection district of Tennessee, in Rutherford County.' May 5, 1864, an internal revenue assessor was first appointed for this district.
August 30, 1864, an assessment division of the district, comprising Rutherford County, was first established.
June 6, 1865, the claimant paid the collector of this district
$i,145, as annual income tax for the year 1863, under the requirements of the act of July 1, 1862, chapter 119,12 Stat. 473,
474, and $1,145 as the special 5 per cent. war income tax for
the year 1863, under the requirements of the joint resolution of
July 4, 1864, No. 7, 13 Stat 417.
June 21, 1865, the Secretary of the Treasury issued Special
Circular No. 16, containing the following among other regulations :
'Section 46 of the internal revenue act approved June 30,
1864, 13 Stat. 240, provides that whenever the authority of the
United States shall have been re-established in any State where
the execution of the laws had previously been impossible, the
provisions of the act shall be put in force in such State, with
such modification of inapplicable regulations in regard to assessment, levy, time, and manner of collection as may be directed
by the Department.
Without waiving in any degree the rights of the government
in respect to taxes that have heretofore accrued, or assuming
to exonerate the tax-payer from his legal responsibility for such
taxes, the Department does not deem it advisable to insist at
present upon their payment, so far as they were payable prior
to the establishment of a collection district embracing the territory in which the tax-payer resides.
But assessors in the several collection districts recently
established in the States lately in insurrection are directed to
require returns and to make assessments for the several classes
of taxes for the appropriate legal period preceding the first
regular day on which a tax becomes due after the establishment
of the district. * *

In the States of Virginia, Tennessee, and Louisiana, collection
districts were some time since established, with such boundaries
as to include territory in which it has but recently become

UNITED STATES v. JORDAN.
Opinion of the Court.

possible to enforce the laws of the United States. In those
districts the rule laid down above will be so modified as to
require the assessment and collection of the first taxes which
become due after the establishnient of assessment divisions in
the particular locality.
June 19, 18-73, the Secretary of the Treasury addressed to
the Commissioner of Internal Revenue the following letter,
which is refeiTed to in the act of Congress:
'TaxsunY DFPARTMENT, OFFICE OF THE S==RY,
WASHINGTON, June 19, 1873.
Sm: I have considered the claim of William Gosling and
others, applicants for refunding taxes alleged to have been
illegally collected, included in schedule No. 243, from your
office, and am of opinion, that, under the existing laws, the
taxes paid by these parties were legally paid and should not be
refunded. But I fully recognize the hardship of the case, and
desire that such claimants may receive relief from Congress.
I have, therefore, to suggest, that you will, in your next
annual report, or on any other occasion which you may deem
more fitting, recommend the passage of a special act authorizing the refunding of all taxes paid by residents of the insurrectionary States, which, under Department Circular of June
21st, 1865, should not have been collected, such refunding to,
be made whether the tax in question was collected before or
after the issue of the circular.
I am, very respectfully,
WILLIAM

A.

RIcHA.RDsoN,

Secretary of the Treasry:"
It is stated in the brief f6r the United States, that the payment
of the $1,145 was refused, by the accounting officers of the
Treasury, on the ground that the statute authorized payment
of only "so much of the sum named as might be determined
at the Treasury to represent the amount of taxes assessed and
collected contrary to the regulations of the Secretary of the
Treasury named in the act," and that the sum paid to the
claimant was the sum total of the taxes that had been improp-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Coart

erly collected from him. From the published decision of the
First Comptroller in the case, 3 Lawrence's Dec. 274, the
ground of refusal appears to have been the one above stated,
and the opinion of the Court of Claims in this case shows that
such ground was urged before that court, and rejected.
The view taken by the Treasury officers was, that the annual
income tax of $1,145, for the year 1863, under the act of July
1, 1862, became, by the statute, due and payable May 1,
1864, before the 'assessment division which comprised Rutherford County was established, and, under the Treasury regulations of June 21, 1865, in Circular No. 16, which required
the collection only of "the first taxes which became due after
the establishment of assessment divisions," that sum of $1,145
was collected contrary tQothe provisions of those regulations,
and was to bp refunded, although'it was collected before the
date of the circular. But the Treasury officers decided that
the $1,145 paid for the special income tax under the joint resolution of July 4, 1864, and which, by law, did not become
due till October 1, 1864, after the establishment of such assessment division, was not collected contrary to the provisions of
those regulations, and was not to be refunded.
The Court of Claims held that the statute did not admit of
that interpretation, nor leave open any question for the court
or for the .accounting officers of the Treasury, except the identity of the claimants with the persons named in.it; and that
its language, taken together, was too clear to admit of doubt,
that Congress undertook, as it had a right .to do, to determine
not only what particular citizens of Tennessee by name. should
have relief, but also the exact amount which should be paid to
each one of them. We concur in this view. The act authorizes and directs the Secretary of the Treasury to pay to the everal persons named the respective sums named. Although the
act speaks of the sums as being "the amount of taxes assessed
upon and collected from the said named persons contrary to the
provisions of the regulations" named, there is no indication of
any intention to submit to any one the determination of the
question whether the taxes in any case were collected contrary
to the provisions of such regulations, or of the questi6n 1 >w

UNITED STATES v. JORDAN.
Opinion of the Court.

those 'provisions are to be construed. On the contrary, the
clear import of the statute is that Congress itself determines
that the amounts named were collected contrary to the provisions of the regulations. The statement in the statute that the
refunding had been recommended by the Secretary of the
Treasury under date of June 19, 1873, refers to the letter of
that date, set forth in the findings, which recommends the
passage of an act to refund all taxes which, under the circular
of June 21, 1865, "should not have been collected, such refunding to be made whether 'the tax in question was collected before or after the issue of the circular." The claimant's two
income taxes were both of them paid before the circular was
issued. In one sense, therefore, they were not collected "contrary to the provisions of the regulations;" and, in that sense,
it was wrong to refund anything to the claimant, under the
language of the act. But with the specification, in the act, of
the name and the amount, no such construction can be given
to it as would prevent the refunding of anything because the
whole amount had been paid before the issuing of the regulationg; and, if anything is to be paid, the whole must be. If
there is discretion confided 'to any oficer or court to inquire
whether the claimant's taxes were collected contrary to the
regulations,, there would be like discretfbn to inquire whether
such taxes were embraced in the letter of June 19, 1873, and
whether the claiinant had filed his claim before June 6, 1873.
No such construction is applicable to a statute of this character.
It is not an improper inference, from the language of the
statute, that Congress intended to refund the taxes covered
by the recommendation of the Secretary of the Treasury, in
his letter of June 19, 1873. That letter covers taxes described
as those which, under the circular, "should not have been collected," though collected before it was issued. Congress may,
therefore, have included sone taxes collected before the circular was issued, but which it thought should not have been, or
ought not to have been, collected, in the sense intended by the
Secretary.
The judgment of the Court of OI5ins is
4fme4.w

