CARDWELL v. BRIDGE COMPANY.
Statement of Facts.

CARDWELL v. AN[ERIOAN BRIDGE COMPTNY.
APPEAL FROM THE ORoUIT COURT OF THE H
DIST ICT OF -ALZFORNIA.

=ITED
STATES FOR THE

Submitted January 6, 1885,-Decided January 19, 1885.

The doctrine that, in the absence of legislation by Congress, a State may au-.
thorize a navigable stream within its limits to be obstructed by a bridge'or
highway, reasserted, and the former cases to that effect referred to.
The provision in the act admitting California, "that all the navigable waters
within the said State shall be common highways and forever free, as well
to the inhabitants of said State, as to the citizens of the United States,
without any tax, impost, or duty therefor," does not deprive the State of the
power possessed by other States, in the absence of legislation by Congress,
to authorize the erection of bridges over navigable waters within the State.
That provision aims to prevent the use of the navigable streams by private
parties to the exclusion of the public, and the exaction of tolls for their
navigation.

Bill in equity, for the removal of a bridge erected by the defendant in error over the American River in California, below
the lands of the plaintiff in error situate on that river.
The American River is a branch of the Sacramento River
in California- It is entirely within the State, and navigable
for small steamboats and barges from its molith to the town of
Folsom, a distance of thirty miles. By its junction with the
Sacramento River, vessels starting upon it can proceed to the
bay of San Francisco, and thence to adjoining States and
foreign countries. It is therefore a navigable water of the
United States, and, as such, is under the control of the
general government in the exercise of its power to regulate
foreign and inter-state commerce, so far as may be necessary
to insure its free navigation.
The defendant was a corporation organized under the laws
of California, and, pursuant to the authority conferred by an
act of its legislature, had constructed a bridge over the American River, of twenty feet in width and three hundred feet in
length, which was used as a roadway across the stream. Its
floor was about fourteen feet abov6 extreme low water, and
about five feet above extreme high water; and the bridge was

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Argument for Appellant.

without a draw or opening for the passage of vessels. Steamboats and other craft were therefore obstructed by it in the
navigation of the river.
The complainant alleged that he was the owner of a large
tract of land, bordering on the river, below Folsom, and raised
many tons of grain each year; that he was also the owner of
a steamboat and other vessels by which he could ship his grai
down the river but for the obstruction caused by the bridge;
that there were also large quarries of granite on his land
sufficient to supply the markets of Sacramento and San Francisco for years, and also large deposits of cobble-stone which
had a value for paving, and, but for the obstruction, he could
ship the granite and cobble-stone by his vessels and sell them
at a profit, whereas the expense of sending them by rail or
other means open to him were such as to deprive him .of all
profit on them. He, therefore, filed his bill against the company, and prayed that it might be enjoined from maintaining
the bridge across the river until a draw should have been
placed in it sufficient to allow steamboats, vessels and watercraft, capable of navigating the stream, to pass and repass,
freely and safely. A demurrer to the bill was sustained and
the bill dismissed, and the case was brought here on appeal.
Ar. J. J. rivener,and .Afr. John L. Booe for appellantrThe act admitting California, 9 Stat. 452, provided in ยง 3 that
"1
all the navigable waters within the said State shall be common
highways and forever free, as well to the inhabitants of said
State, as to the citizens of the United States, without any tax,
duty, or impost therefor." This provision withdrew the subject
matter of navigable rivers from the jurisdiction of the State,
and distinguishes this case from the line of cases as to the power
of States over them. In effect it leaves them subject to the
exclusive will of Congress under article 1, section 8, of the Constitution. The court below took this view in language which we
quote and adopt as part of our brief. The question is, has Congress
done this with reference to the navigable waters of CaliforniaI
If Congress has so acted, that legislation is found in the act
admitting California into the Union, which act provides, "that

CARDWELL v. BRIDGE COMPANY.
Argument for Appellant.

all the navigable waters within the State shall be common
highways, and forever free, as well to the inhabitants of.said
State as to the citizens of the United States, without any tax,
impost, or duty therefor." 9 Stat. 452, 453. How can 1he
American River be a "common highway," or how can it be
"free" to "the citizens of the United States," or "the inhabitants of .the State," with a low bridge across it, without a
draw, and so constructed as to preclude all navigation by
steamers or vessels I To be a common highway, or to be free
to all to use as such, involves a capacity to be practically used
as a highway, and such capacity is wanting where there is an
impassable barrier or obstruction. "Now, an obstructed
navigation cannot be said'to be free." Wheeling Bridge Case,
13 How. 518, 565. This provision is a law of Congress, and it
is valid, not as a compact between the United States and the
State of California, but as a l&w of Congress, passed by virtue
of the constitutional power of Congress to regulate commerce
a~nong the States and with foreign nations, and to establish
post roads. Pollard's lsee v. Hagan, 3 How. 212, 224, 225,
229, 230; Wheeling Bridge Case, above cited, 566; W'oodruf v. North Bloomfield Xiing Co., 1 West Coast Rep. 183,
212. What does this provision of the statute mean? Can
there be any reason to suppose that Congress intended anything else than to make or continue the navigable waters
of the State, by virtue of its power to regulate commerce,
practical free highways, and to take away the power of the
State to destroy or wholly obstruct their navigability? Had
nothing been said upon the subject in the act of admission,
but subsequently, after the admission of California into the
Union "on an equal footing with the original States in all
respects whatever," Congress had passed a separate, independent act, with no other provision in it, providing "that all the
navigable waters within the State of California shall be common highways, and forever free, as well to the inhabitants of
said State as to the citizens of the United States, without any
tax, impost, o duty therefor," would anybody suppose that
Congress, by the passage of such an act, under the circumstances indicated, could have any other purpose than to take

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

control of the navigable waters of the State for the purpose of
preventing any interference with, or obstruction to, their
navigability, or "so far as might be necessary to insure their
free- navigation ?" See also ratch v. Wallamet Iron Bridge
Co., 7 Sawyer, 127; Wallanet Bridge Co. v. Hatch, 19 Fed.
Rep. 347. These principles bring this case within the uniform
and unqualified line of decisions for a period of sixty years
from Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, to .liller v. 3Jfayor of -New
YFoTk, 109 U. S. 385.
-Yr.J. B. Haggin, and Mr. A. T. Britton for appellee.
MR. JusTicE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
He recited the facts as above stated, and continued:
The questions thus presented are neither new nor difficult of
solution. Except in one particular, they have been considered
and determined in many cases, of which the most important
are Wilson v. Blackbird Creek -farsh Co., 2 Pet. 245 ;'Penn-

sylvanda v. Wheeling Bridge Co., 13 How. 518, 564; Gilman
v. Philade4phia,3 Wall. 713; Pound v. Turck, 95 U. S. 459;
Escanaba Co. v. Chicago, 107 U. S. 678, and .iller v. .Mayor
of H~ew York, 109 U. S. 385. In these cases the control of
Congress over navigable waters within the States so as to preserve their free navigation under the commercial clause of the
Constitution, the power of the States within which they lie to
authorize the construction of bridges over them until Congress
intervenes and supersedes their authority, and the right of pri-.
vate parties to interfere with their construction or continuance,
have been fully considered, and we are entirely satisfied with
the soundness of the conclusions reached. They recognize the
full power of the States to regulate within their limits matters
of internal police, which embraces among other things the construction, repair and maintenance of roads and bridges, and
the establislment of ferries; that the Slates are more likely to
appreciate the importance of these means of internal communication and to provide for their proper management, than a
government at a distance; and that, as to bridges over navigable streams, their power is subordinate to that of Congress, as

CARDWELL v. BRIDGE COMPANY.
Opinion of the Court.

an act of the latter body is, by the Constitution, made the supreme law of the land; but that until Congress acts on the
subject their power is plenary. When Congress acts directly
with reference to the bridges authorized by the State, its will
must control so far as may be necessary to secure the free navigation of the streams.
In Wilson v. Blaek6rd Creek ffarsh Co., a dam had been
constructed across a small navigable river in the State of Delaware, by authority of its legislature;. and this court held that
the obstruction which it caused to the navigation of the stream
was an affair between the government of the State and its
citizens, in the absence of any law of Congress on the subject.
.In the case of Gilman v. Philadelpia,a bridge across the
Schuylkill River connecting East ani West Philadelphia, had
been constructed by authority of the legislature of Pennsylvania. It was without a draw, and prevented the passage of
vessels to wharves above it, although the river was tide water
and navigable to them, and commerce had been carried on to
them. for years in all kinds of vessels. The owner of the
wharves filed a bill to prevent the erection of the bridge, alleging that it would be an unlawful obstruction to the navigation
of the river and an illegal interference with his rights, and
claimed that he was entitled to be protected by an injunction
against the progress of the work, and to a decree for its abatement should it be proceeded with to completion. But the
court held that the State had not exceeded the bounds of her
authority in permitting its construction, and until the power of
the Constitution was made effective by appropriate legislstion, the power of the State was plenary, and its exercise, in
good faith, could not be made the subject of review here. The
court observed that it was not to be forgotten that bridges,
which are connecting parts of turnpikes, streets, and railroads,
were means of commercial transportation, as well as navigable waters; that the commerce which -passed over a bridge
might be much greater than would be transported on the water
obstructed; and that it was for the municipal power to weigh
the considerations that applied to the subject, and to decide
vOL. cxm-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

which should be preferred, and how far either should be made
subservient to the other.
These cases illustrate the general doctrine, now fully recognized, that the commercial power of Congress is exclusive of
State authority only when the subjects-upon which it is exerted
are national in their character and admit and require uniformity
of regulations affecting alike all the States; and that when the
subjects within that power are local in their nature or operation, or constitute mere aids to commerce, the States may provide for their regulation and management, until Congress intervenes and supersedes their action.
The complainant, however, contends that Congress has intervened and expressed its will on this sbject by a clause in
the act of September 9, 1850, 9 Stat. 452, admitting California
as a State into the Union, which declares. "that all the navigable waters within the said State shall be common highways and
forever free, as well to the inhabitants of said Stath as to the
citizens of the United States, without any tax, impost, or duty
therefor." 9 Stat. 453. This declaration is similar to that
contaiued in the ordinance of 1787. for the government of the
territory of the United States noithwest of. the Ohio River, so
far as the latter ,relates to the navigable waters flowing into
the Mississippi and the St. Lawrence. And in Escanaa Co. v.
Cicago we held, with respect to the State of Illinois, that
the clause was superseded by her admission into the Union, for
she then became entitled to, and possessed of all the rights of
domain and sovereignty which belonged to the original States.
The language of the resolution admitting her declared, that it
was on "an equal footing with the original States in all respects whatever;" so that, after her admission, she possessed
the same power over rivers within her limits that Delaware
exercised over Blackbird Creek and Pennsylvania over Schuylkill River.
The act enabling the people of Wisconsin Territory to form
a Constitution and State government, and for admission into
the Union, contains a similar clause. And yet, in Pound'v.
Turck, which was before this court at October Term, 1877, it
was held, that a statute of that State which authorized the

CARDWELL v. BRIDGE COMPANY.
Opinion of the Court.

erection of a dam across a navigable river within her limits,
was not unconstitutional, in the absence of other legislation by
Congress bearing on the case. The court does not seem to
have considered the question as affected by the clause in the
enabling act. That clause is not, it is true, commented on in
the opinion, but the section containing it is referred to, and the
declaration, that navigable streams within the State are to be
common highways, must have been in the mind of the court.
It held, however, that the case was governed by the decisions
in the Delaware and Pennsylvania cases, observing that there
were in the State of Wisconsin, and other States, many small
streams navigable for short distances from their mouths in one
of the great rivers of the country, by steamboats, but whose
greatest value, in water carriage, was as outlets to saw-logs
and lumber, coal and salt, and that, in order to develop their
great~st utility in that regard, it was often essential that dams,
booms and piers should be used, which are substantial obstructions to general navigation, and more or less so to rafts and
barges ; but that to the legislature of the State the authority
is most properly confided to authorize these structures where
their use will do more good than harm, and to impose such
regulations and limitations in their construction and use as'will
best reconcile and accommodate the interests of all concerned.
And the court added that the exercise of this limited power
may all the more safely be confided to the local legislatures as
the right of Congress is recognized to interfere and control the
matter whenever deemed necessary.
The clause, therefore, in the act admitting California, quoted
above, upon which the complainant relies, must be considered,
according to these decisions, as in no way impairing the power
which the State could exercise over the subject if the clause
had no existence. But independently of this consideration, we
do not think the clause itself requires the construction which
the court below placed upon it, and which counsel urges so
earnestly for our consideration. That court held that the
clause contains two provisions, one that the navigable waters
shall be a connon highway to the inhabitants of the State as
well as to citizens of the United States; and the other, that

OCTOBER TERMT, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

they shall be forever free from any tax, impost, or duty therefor; that these provisions are separate and distinct, and that
one is not an adjunct or amplification of the other. Possibly
some support is given to that view by language used in the
opinion in Escanaba Co. v. Chicago. ,In that case all the
bridges over the Chicago River had draws for the passage of
vessels, and we there held that a bridge constructed with a
draw could not be regarded within the ordinance of 1787 as
an obstruction to the navigation of the stream. We were not
required to express any further opinion as to the meaning of
the ordinance. But upon the mature and careful consideration,
which we have given in this case to the language of the clause
in the act admitting California, we are of opinion that, if we
treat the clause as divisible into two provisions, they must be
construed together as having but one object, namely, to insure
a highway equally open to all without preference to any, and
unobstructed by duties or tolls, and thus prevent the use of the
navigable streams by private parties to the exclusion of the
public, and the exaction of any toll for their navigation; and
that the clause contemplated no other restriction upon the
power of the State in authorizing the construction of bridges
over them whenever such construction would promote the convenience of the public. The act admitting California declares
n
into the Union on an equal footing with
that she is "a dmitted
the original States in all respects whatever." She was not,
therefore, shorn by the clause as to navigable waters within
her limits of any of the powers which the original States possessed over such waters within their limits.
-Decreeaffimd.

