TUCKER v. MASSER.
Opinion of the Court.

TUCKER & Another v. MASSER & Others.
IN

EROR TO THE OIRCOT COUnT oF THE .uDrnED sTATEs

oR

THE- DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
Submitted January 9, 185.-Decided January 26, 1885.

A patent for a placer mining claim, composed of distinct mining locations,
some of which were made after 1870, and together embracing over one

hundred and sixty acres, is valid. SrmeUing 6o. v. Kemp, 104 U. S. 686, was
catefuly considered, and is again affirmed.

The facts which make the case are stated in-the opinion of
the court.
r. L. . ?ocowetZ and Mr. C6arZe J. RoweZI for plaintiffs
in error.
No appearance and no brief for defendants in error.
M-. Jus=oE

FiRLD delivered

the Dpinion of the court.

This is an action of ejectment for the possession of three lots"
in what is known as Stevensf and Leiter's subdivision of the
City of Leadville, in Lake County, Colorado. The complaint
is in the usual form under the practice established in that
State, where the action is brought to obtain possession of land
alleged to be part of the public domain, but of which the plaintiff claims to have a better right of possession than his adversary. It alleges that on the 10th of .March, 1879, the plaintiff
was and still "is the owner, by prior actual possession on the
public domain, and by superiority of possessory title, and entitled to the immediate possession" of the desoribed premises,
and that they are of the value of $5,000 ; that on the 20th
of that month the defendants wrongfully and unlawfully entered upon the premises, and wrongfully and unlawfully withheld them from the plaintiff to his damage of $1,000; that
the rents and profits of the premises, from the date of the
ouster, have been $200 a month, and aggregate $3,000. The
plaintiff, therefore, asks judgment for the possession of the
premises and for the damages; rents and prbfits. The answer
of the defendants denies the general allegations of the com-

204_

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

plaint, and avers that they are the owners of the premises and
entitled to their possession.
On the trial the plaintiff offered proof tending to show prior
occupation of the premises, the erection of some buildings
thereon, his forcible dispossession by the defendants, and the
damages he had sustained.
The defendants introduced in evidence a patent of the United
States to William H. Stevens and Levi Z. Leiter, bearing date
November 5, 1878, which covered the premises in controversy,
and traced title from the patentees through sundry mesne conveyances. The patent was for a placer mining claim, and the
plaintiff was allowed, against the objections of the defendant,
to introduce, for the purpose of impeaching the patent, the
proceedings before the Land Department of the government
upon which it was issued,, And the court decided that as it
appeared upon such proceedings that the patent was issued
upon four mining ]ocations made after 1870 united in one
claim, embracing two hundred and ninety acres or thereabouts,
the patent was invalid and passed no title to the patentees,
holding, in effect, that several distinct mining locations could
not after that year be thus united in one claim for which a
single patent could be issued. The plaintiff accordingly recovered.
The validity of a patent for a placer mining claim, composed
of distinct mining locations, some of which were made after
1870, and together embracing over one hundred and sixty
acres, was sustained in the case before us at October Term,
1881, of Smelting Co. v. Aemp, 104: U. S. 636. All the questions
presented in .the base at bar were there fully considered after
two arguments of counsel, and we have seen no reason to question the soundness of the conclusions we then reached.
Upon the authority of that case,
The judgment below i8 reveroed, and the caue remandedfor
a new trial.

