OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabus.

dence offered by either party, and thereupon the court found
the issues for the plaintiff." A judgment was 'entered for
plaintiff, and a motion in writing for new trial was overruled,
to which defendant excepted.
1. There is no special finding of facts; and the general finding of the issues for the plaintiff is not open to review by this
court. Xartinton v. Fairbanks,112 U. S. 670.
2. The questions discussed by counsel for the defendant as
to the legal authority of the town to issue the bonds referred
to fairly arise upon the fAnst count of the declaration. But
their determination cannot affect the judgment, for the common counts are sufficient under the statutes of fllinois to support the judgment, without reference to any question of the
legal authority to issue the bonds described in the first count.
Rev. Stat. Ill. 1870, ch. 110, ยง 58; Bond v. .Dustin, 112
U. S. 604.
Judgment ffirmd.

-MoARTHUR & Others v. SCOTT & Others.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
Argued January 28, 29, 184.-Reargued April 7, 8, 9, 1884.-Decided March 2, 1885.

Words in a will, directing land to be conveyed to or divided among remaindermen at the expiration of a particular estate, are to be presumed, unless
clearly controlled by other provisions, to relate to the beginning of enjoyment by remaindermen, and not to the vesting of the title in them.
A testator devised lands and personal property to his executors and their successors, and their heirs, in trust ; and directed that the income, until his
youngest grandchild, who might live to be twenty-one years of age, should
aTive at that age, should be divided equally among the testator's children,
or the issue of any child dying, and among the grandchildren also as they
successively came of age ; that "after the decease of all my children, and
when and as soon as the youngest grandchild shall arrive at the age of
twenty-one years," the lands should be "inherited and equally divided
between my grandchildren per capita," in fee, and that "in like manner"
the personal property should "at the same time be equally divided among
my said grandchildren, share and sare alike per capita;" and that if any
grandchild should have died before the final division, leaving children, they

McARTHUR v. SCOTT.
Syllabus.

should take and receive per stirpme the share which their parent would have
been entitled to have and receive if then living ; and provided that any
assignment, mortgage or pledge by any grandchild of his share should be
void, and the executors, in the final division and distribution, should coneey and pay to the persons entitled under the will. Held, That the executors took the legal title in fee, to hold until the final division ; and that the
trusts were imposed upon them as executors. Reid, also, That all the
,grandchildren took equitable vested remainders, opening to let in those
born after the testator's death, and subject to be divested only as to any
grandchild who died before the expiration of the particular estate, leaving
issue, by an executory devise over to such issue.
Under the statute of Ohio of December 17, 1811, providing that no estate in
lands "shall be given or granted by deed or will to any person or persons,
but such as are in being, or to the immediate issue or descendants of, such
as are in being, at the time of making such deed or will," a devise of a
vested remainder to grandchildren of the testator, with an executory devise
over of the share of any grandchild, who shall have died, leaving children,
before the coming of age of the youngest grandchild, to the children of such
deceased grandchild, is valid, so far, at least, as concerns the grandchil
dren, though born after the testator's death.
All persons interested in a suit in equity, and whose rights will be directly
affected by the decree, must be made parties to the suit. unless they are too
numerous, or some of them are out of the jurisdiction, or not in being;
and in every case there must be such parties before the court as to insure a
fair trial of the issue in behalf of all.
A trustee having large powers over the trust estate, and important duties to
perform with respect to it, is a necessary party to a suit by a stranger to
defeat the trust.
A court of probate has inherent power, without specific statute authority, to
grant administration limited to the defence of a particular suit.
A citizen of Ohio devised lands in that State to his three executors in fee. in
trust, to pay the income to his children and grandchildren until the youngest grandchild who should live to be twenty-one years of age should arrive
at that age and then to convey the remainder to his grandchildren in equal
shares; and provided that if any executor should die, resign. or refuse to
act, a new executor, to act with the others, should be appointed by the
court of probate. The will was admitted to probate, upon the testimony
of the attesting witnesses, under the statute of Ohio of February 18, 1831,
and three executors were appointed and acted as such.

Two of them after-

wards resigned and their resignations were accepted by the court of probate. A bill in equity to set aside the will and annul the probate was then
filed, under that statute, by one of the children against the other children
and all the grandchildren then in being, alleging that they were the only
persons specified or interested in the will, and were the only heirs and personal representatives of the deceased ; those grandchildren being infants,
one of the children was appointed guardian ad litem of each; the third
executor, who was one of the children made defendants in their own right,

OCTOBER TE.RM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.
and who was not made a party as executor or trustee, and did not answer
as such, resigned, and the resignation was accepted by the court of probate, pending that suit, and no other executor, trustee, or administrator
with the will annexed was made a party; it was found by a jury that the
instrument admitted to probate was mot the testator's will, and a decree
was entered setting aside the will and annulling the probate. Partition
was afterwaras decreed among the heirs, and they conveyed portions of the
lands set off to them to purchasers for value and without actual notice of
any adverse title. Held, That the decree annulling the probate was absolutely void as against grandchildren afterwards born, and that they were
entitled to recover their shares under the will against the heirs and purchasers, and might, if the parties were citizens of different States, bring
their suit in the Circuit Court of the United States.
Holt v. Lamb, 17 Ohio St. 874, followed.

This is a bill in equity by the children of Allen C. McArthur, a son of General Duncan McArthur, to enforce a trust
and establish a title in fee in lands in Ohio under the will of
their grandfather.
The case was heard in the Circuit Court on the bill and answers, by which it appeared to be as follows:
Duncan McArthur, of the County of Ross and State of Ohio,
died on May 12, 1839, leaving an instrument in writing, dated
October 30, 1833, purporting. to be dulyexecuted and attested
as his last will, by which he empowered and directed his executors to sell and convey all his lands not described, devised his
home farm to his wife for life, and other lands not now in
,question to Samnson Mason, and Samuel F. Vinton, in trust for
the benefit of his five surviving children and their heirs, made
various bequests, and further provided as follows:
[15.] "Item. It is my will and direction that my lands and
lots not otherwise herein disposed of, lying and being in the
counties of Ross and Pickaway, shall not be sold; but thE
lands and lots, together with the lands herein devised to my
said wife, after her death, shall be by my executors leased or
rented out to the best advantage, for improvements to be made
thereon, or for money rents, until the youngest or last grandchild which I now'have, or may hereafter have, the lawfully
begotten child of either of my said sons Allen C. or James
McD., or of my daughters Effie, Eliza Ann, or Mary, who may
live to be twenty-one years of age, shall arrive at that age.

McARTH.UR v. SCOTT
Statement of Facts.

[16.] "Item. And it is my further will and direction that;
after the several sums of money hereinbefore devised shall
have been in all cases first paid and deducted therefrom, as
the same shall from time to time become due and payable, the
overplus or residue of the rents and profits of the lands so to
be rented or let, and of the lots not otherwise disposed of in
the counties of Ross and Pickaway, and of the dividends arising from the stock owned by me at the time of my death, and
of such stocks as shall be purchased by my said executrix and
executors, shall be annually divided equally among my children and grandchildren who may be the age of twenty-one
years when such divisions shall be-made; which division shall
be made until the power of my executors to lease said lands
shall terminate, viz., until the aforesaid youngest grandchild
above designated and described shall arrive at the age of
twenty-one years. And said annual division of rents and
profits and dividends of stock aforesaid shall lte made among
and between said Allen C.,
names McD., Effie, Eliza Ann and
Mary, and their children, share and share alike, per capita, the
said children to come in for a share in the .annual division
when they shall respectively attain the age of twenty-one
years, and not before; and in case of the death of either of
my said last-named sons or daughters, leaving a lawful child
or children under age, the child or children of such deceased
parent shall take per 8tirve8, for their education and ihaintenance, the' dividends in such division which such deceased
parent would, if living, have been entitled to receive. And
when such child or children of such deceased parent shall
respectively come of the age of twenty-one years, he, she
or they shall no longer take _per 8tirpee, but shall then
and from thenceforth take in said annual division his, her or
their shareper capita; but the coming of one of such children
of any such deceased parent to the age of tventy-one years
shall not bar or preclude those children of such parent who
may be still in their minority from continuing to take the fill
share, per 8tirpe8, of such deceased parent. And in said annual
division the children of my daughter Margaret Campbell Kercheval, deceased, or the legal issue of such said children as may

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

be deceased, shall annually for the period of ten years after
my death take and receive, per stirpes, one share as the representatives of their deceased mother, to be equally divided
among them; and at the expiration of ten years after my
death the said children of my said daughter Margaret Campbell shall not thenceforth take or be entitled to any part of
said division; but the said division shall thenceforth be made
among my said children, Allen C., James M]eD., Effie, Eliza
Ann, Mary, and their children, exclusively, in the manner
hereinbefore directed, intending hereby to exclude altogether
from said division the children .of my deceased daughter Helen
Mar.
[17.] "Item. It is my further will and direction that after
the decease of all my children now living, and when and as soon
as the youngest or last grandchild, in the next preceding clause
but one of this will designated and described, shall arrive at the
age of twenty-one years, all my lands and lots not otherwise
disposed of in said counties of Ross and Pickaway, and all my
other lands, if any shall remain unsold at that time, shall be
inherited and equally divided between my grandchildren per
capita, the lawful issue of mysaid sons and daughters, Allen C.,
James McD., Effie, Eliza Ann, and Mary, for them and their
heirs forever, to have and to hold, or tc sell and dispose of the
same at their will and pleasure; and in like manner all the
stoclts belonging to my said estate, whether invested before or
after my death, shall at the same time be equally divided among
my said grandchildren, share and share alike, er capita; but it
is to be understood to be my will and direction that if any grandchild aforesaid shall have died before said final division is made,
leaving a child or children lawfully begotten, such child or children .shall take and receive per stirpes (to be equally divided
between them) the share of my said estate, both real and personal, which the parent of such deceased child or children
would have been entitled to have and receive if living at the
time of such final distribution. In making this last and final
division and distribution of my lands and stocks, I have
excluded the children of my deceased daughters Helen Mar,
late wife of Alexander Bourne, and Margaret Campbell, late

McA'RTHUR v. SCOTT.
Statement of Facts.

wife of Robert Kerche-val, deceased, their parents having in my
opinion received their-full.share and portion of my estate.
[18.] "Item. And it is further my will that my said children or grandchilfren, or any of them, by their own act or in
conjunction with the husband of any of them, shall not have
power or authority to assign, transfer, pledge, mortgage or encumber in any way his or her or their share of the annual
dividends or profits of my said estate herein above devised; but
every such assignment, transfer, pledge, mortgage or encumbrance, by any instrument or device whatsoever, shall be wholly
null and void, and the proper receipt of such child or -grandchild, or his, her or their Jawful authorized guardian, shall alone
be a discharge to my said executors; and in like manner every
conveyance, assignment, transfer, pledge, mortgage or encumbrance, by any instrument or device whatsoever, made by any
one of my said grandchildren or their legal representatives, by
any act or deed of him or her or them, or in conjunction with
the husband of any of them, whereby his, her or their shar'e of
said lands and stocks in the final distribution thereof shall be in
any way affected or disposed of, shall be wholly null-and void.
And in such final distribution of my lands, it is my direction
that deeds of 'artition thereof shall be made to and in the
names of those who may be thus entitled thereto, and in the
name and for the use of no other person whatsoever, which
deeds of partition shall be executed by my executors fdr the
time being; and to enable my executors the more effectually
to execute the powers and duties by this will devolved upon
them, and to protect my said children and grandchildren against
fraud and imposition, I hereby devise to my said executrix and
executors, and the successors of them, all of said lands so
directed to be leased and finally divided as above, and to their
heirs, in trust for the uses and purposes "andobjects expressed
in this my will, and the performance of which is herein above
directed and prescribed, to have and to hold the title thereof
till such final division or partition thereof, and no longer.
And it is my further direction that in the final division of the
stocks aforesaid the executors inwhose name the same may then
be vested in trust shall assign and transfer to such grandchild, or

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
.Statement of Facts.

his or her legal representatives, the share or portion of such stock
belonging and coming to such grandchild or his or her legal
representatives, so that the same shall be vested in the name of
such grandchild or legal representatives; and the proper receipts
of such grandchild or'legal representatives, or of his or her or
their duly authorized guardian, shall alone discharge the executor or-4xecutors -in-whom the -stocks aforesaid shall or may
then be vested."
[23.] "Item. It is my direction that my executors shall give
bond and security for faithful administration, as in other
cases."
[24.] "1Item. And finally, for the purpose of carrying all
and singular the provisio's of 'this my last will and testament
into effect, I do hereby nominate and appoint my wife, Nancy
McArthur, executrix, aond my friends, Presley Morris and Win.
iam Key Bond, Esquires, of. Ross County, my executors; and
in case any one or more of the above named executors shall die,
resign, or refuse to act and qualify according to law, it is my will
and request that the Court of Cominon Pleas for said County of
Ross for the time being, or such other court as may hereafter
be constituted and authorized to do testamentary business, shall
nominate and appoint a suitable person or persons, who -willqual
ify and aot, to supply the place or places of the person or
persons by me herein named and appointed as my executors,
and who may not qualify and act as such, or who may, after
accepting and qualifying, die, refuse or neglect to act; 4nd such
persoNQor persons so to be nominated and appointed by said
court shall not be administrators de boni nm with the will annexed, but, the nomination by the court shall be in execution of
this will, as though the same individual had been nominated by
this my will to fill a vacancy, or as though a power of nomination had been veked in some person or individual herein named;
and such person so'nominated shall act and be executor with
my other executors for the time being, it being my intention
that the duties herein required shall always be performed ty
at least three executors, that being the number by me herein
named and appointed."
A transcript of a record of the Court of Common Pleas of

McARTHUR

. SCOTT.

Statement of Facts.

the county of Ross and State of Ohio (referred to in the bill,
and annexed to it) showed the following proceedings:
On May 6, 1839, the alleged will of Duncan McArthur was
produced to the court, and pr9ved by the oaths of the attesting
witnesses, and ordered-to be recorded. On the next day, the
court granted letters testamentary to Morris and Bond, the
surviving executors named in the will, and to Effie McArthur
Coons, an additional executrix then appointed by the court,
pursuant to the will, in the place of the testator's wife, who
died before him; and the three executors so appointed were
qualified and gave bond with sureties as required by law. On
June 21, 1839, Bond tendered his resignation of the office of
executor, and it was ac6pted by an order which recited that
the court was of opinion that good cause had been shown for
such resignation. On June 25; 1839, Morris likewise resigned,
and his resignation was accepted by a simiar order. On
October 22, 1839, "Effie McA. C6ons having this day tendered
her resignation to the court of her office of one of the executors
of the last will of the late Duncan McArthur, deceased, late of
Ross County, it is ordered by the court that the said resignation
be, and the same is hereby, accepted, and the said resignation
ordered to be recorded." On December 4, 1839, letters of
administration on the estate of Duncan McArthur were granted
to William McDonald, and he was qualified and gave bond
accordingly.
A transcript of a record of the same court, sitting in chancery
(set'forth and referred to in the answers), showed the following
proceedings:
On July 8, 1839, Alleii C. McArthur, the eldest son of the
testator, filed a bill before the judges of the court, sitting in
chancery, setting forth the death of Duncan MxcArthur, the
probate of the instrument aforesaid as his will by the oaths of
the witnesses, the appointment in that instrument of his wife
and Morris and Bond to be executorsi the death of the wife
before the testator, and the nomination and appointment by
the court of Mrs. Coons to act as executrix in her place; and
alleging that Morris, Bond and Mrs. Coons took upon themselves the executorship of the will; that Bond and Morris, at

,348 '

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

the then present term of the court, had severally resigned, and
their resignations had been accepted; and "that by the provisions of the said instrument in writing all acts to be done by
the executors require the concurrence of three executors, and
tnat no suitable persons can be found whom the court are
willing to appoint executors of the said will, and who are able
to give the bonds required by the said instrument or the law of
the land."
That bill "further insists and states that the said instrument
is void and of none effect, because it is wholly impracticable
and cannot be carried into effect; because many of its provisions are impracticable and cannot be carried into effect;
because it tends to establish perpetuities, and does establish
such peipetuities, which are contrary to the genius of our institutions and- the spirit of our people and their laws, and indeed contrary to -the common law;" and "that the said instrument in writing is void, because its provisions or many of them
are in violation of and contrary to the common and statute
law;" and also alleged that Duncan McArthur, at the time of
executing it, was of insane memory and not possessed of a
testamentary capacity; and that it was never legally executed
as, and was not, his last will and testament.
That bill further alleged that "the only persons who have
an interest in the said instrument in writing" were the complainant,; Duncan McArthur's other four children,.James McD.
MoArthur, Effie McA. Coons, Eliza Ann Anderson and Mary
Trimble, and the husbands of Mrs. Anderson and Mrs. Trimble;
three minor children of James McD. McArthur, a minor son of
Mrs. Coons, and a minor son of Mrs. Anderson; a minor son
and an adult daughter (with her husband) of Margaret C.
Kercheval, a deceased daughter of Duncan McArthur; Alexander Bourne, husband of Helen M. Bourne, another deceased
daughter of Duncan McArthur; one adult and two minor sons
of Mrs. Bourne; and Samson Mason and Samuel F. Vinton, as
devisees in trust of lands not now in question.
That bill further alleged "that the aforesaid persons are the
only heirs and personal representatives of the said Duncan
M cArthur, and that they are also the only persons specified in

McARTHUR v. SCOTT
Statement of Facts.

the said instrument in writing, claimed as the will of said
Duncan McArthur;" and made them defendants; and prayed
that an issue might be directed to be made up whether that
instrument was the last will of Duncan McArthur or not, and
that it might be set aside as void, and for further relief.
On July 10, 1839, the complainant in that cause had leave
to ameid his bill, and the cause was continued. On October
7, 1839, he filed a supplemental bill, alleging that a daughter
had been born to Mrs. Trimble, and was a granddaughter of
Duncan McArthur, and as such entitled to a provision under
and an interest in the supposed will, and praying that she
might be made a defendant.
Among the defendants named in the bill and supplemental
bill in that cause were all the children and grandchildren of
Duncan McArthur who were in existence at any time during
the pendency of that suit; and due service of process was made
on alf of them. Mason and Vinton, trustees, were served with
process, and severally filed answers, declining to accept the
trust conferred upon them by the will, and disclaiming all interest in the lands devised to them.
On October 22, 1839, the following proceedings were had
in that cause: The court appointed James McD. McArthur
guardian ad litem of his three minor children; Mrs. Coons
guardian ad litem of her minor son; Mrs. Trimble's husband
guardian ad litern of their minor daughter; Mrs. Anderson's
husband guardian ad litem of their minor son, and of Mrs.
Bourne's two minor sons; and Mrs. Kercheval's son-in-law
guardian ad litem of her minor son; and an acceptance of each
appointment was filed.
On the same day, answers to that bill were filed in behalf of
all the defendants. The answers of the four children of the
testator, James McD. McArthur, Mrs. Coons, Mrs. Anderson
and Mrs. Trimble, and the husbands of the last two, as well as
the answers of Mrs. Kercheval's daughter and son-in-law, and
of Alexander Bourne and his adult son, severally stated that
they admitted and confessed all the allegations of the bill.
The answer of Mrs. Coons further stated that "since the filing
of the same she has, to wit, at the present term of October, re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

signed the office and charge of executrix of the said supposed
last will and testament of her deceased father, the late General
Duncan McArthur, from a conviction of her. inability to discharge the duties incumbent on her as such executrix, and the.
impossibility of procuring suitable associates agreeably to the
provisions of the said instrument in writing." The several
answers of the infant defendants by their guardians ad e
stated that they would neither admit nor deny the allegations
of the bill, but left the complainant to prove them.
On the same day, the court ordered "that an issue at law be
made up between the parties to try the-validity of said will
and to ascertain by the verdict of a jury whether said writing
is the valid last will and testament of the said Duncan McArthur
or not ;" and that in making up that issue the defendants file
a declaration affirming it to be his will, and the complainant
plead thereto that it is not his will.
On October 27 the defendants filed a declaration and the
complainant a plea accordingly. On October 28 a jury was
empanelled and sworn and returned a verdict that the instrument "is not the valid last will, and testament of the said
Duncam McArthur, deceased;" and on the same day the court
entered this decree:
"The jury to whom was committed for trial the issue made
in pursuance of the order of the court, between the respondents
and the complainant, whether the instrument filed and ex*hibited in this cause and purporting to be the last will and testament of the late Duncan McArthur, of Ross County, deceased,
was or was not the valid last will and testament of the said
Duncan McArthur, deceased, having returned their verdict that
the said instrument in writing is not the valid last will and testament of the said Duncan McArthur, deceased; and the cpurt,
having heard the arguments of counsel and being fully advised
in the. premises, are of opinion that the law and equity of the
case are with the complainant, and do order, adjudge and decree
that the said instrument in writing, fied and exhibited by the
compliinant, purporting to be-the last will and testament of the
said Duncan McArthur, deceased, and admitted to probate as
such last will and testament in the Court of Comnnon 'Pleas of

McARTHUR" v. SCOTT.
Statement of Facts.

this county, be annulled, set aside and held for nought; and the
infant defendants shall respectively have until they severally
attain the full age of twenty-one years and six months thereafter, and the femes covert .defendants shall respectively have
until they are 'discovert and six months thereafter, to show
cause against this decree. And it is further ordered by the
court that the defendants pay the costs herein expended, taxed
at forty dollars and twenty-five cents. The complainant's costs
are taxed at thirty-three dollars and fifty-five cents. The defendants' costs are taxed at six dollars aid seventy cents."
William McDonald, appointed on December 4, 1839, administrator of the estate of Duncan McArthur, as stated in the
record annexed to the present bill and above mentioned, afterwards administered the entire personal estate of the deceased,
and his final account was settled by the court on August 2, 1865.
Upon a petition' for partition of all the real estate of which
Duncan McArthur died seized, filed on April 2, 1840, by his
daughter Mrs. Anderson and her husband, against Duncan McArthur's other four children, Allen C. McArthur, James McD.
McArthur, Mrs. Coons, and MTs. Trimble and her husband,
and against the two children of his deceased daughter, Mrs.
Kercheval, the Court of Common Pleas for Ross County, on
April 11, 1841, made partition among them, one sixth part
each to said Allen 0. McArthur, Mrs. Coons, Mrs. Anderson
and Mrs. Trimble, one sixth to the heirs of James McD. McArthur (who had died pending that suit), and one twelfth to
each of the two children of Mrs. Kercheval.
Upon the rendition of the decree in partition, the parties
thereto entered into possession of their shares, and afterwards
made sales of portions thereof to purchasers for valuable consideration, and without actual notice of any adverse title or
claim; and they, and other persons claiming under or through
them, respectively occupied and improved the same for the
period of thirty-four years and eleven months, and until the
filing of the present bi,'and during all that time their use and
possession was distinct, continued, exclusive, actual and notorious, under a claim of title in fee simple, and adverse to the
claims of all other persons.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

After the decree setting aside the will, and before the filing
of this bill, one of James McD. MeArthur's children died
under nine years of, age, and another child was born to him;
the son of Mrs. Coons died, unmarried and intestie, and she
married William Allen and had a daughter by him; Mrs.
Anderson had five more children born, of whom two died
under eleven yehrs of age; Mrs. Trimble's daughter married
one Madeira, .and died, leaving three children; and Allen C.
McArthur, Duncan McArthur's eldest son, had five children
born to him, four daughters and a son.
This son, also named Allen C. McArthur, was the youngest
grandchild of Duncan McArxthur who arrived at twenty-one
years of age. Eie arrived at that age on March 4, 1815, after
the death of all the children of Duncan McArthur; and he,
together with his four sisters and their husbands, all being citizens of Illinois or Qf Kentucky, are the plaintiffs in the present
bill, which was filed on March 17, 1876. An authentic copy of
the will of Duncan McArthur, and of the original probate
thereof, was recorded by the probate court in Pickaway County
on February 11, 1876.
The defendants in this bill were all citizens of Ohio, and
were the three surviving children of James McD. McArthur,
the surviving daughter of Mrs. Effie McA. Allen, the four surviving children of Mrs. Anderson, the three children of Mrs.
Madeira, and numerous purchasers of different parcels of land
from the parties to the proceeding for partition.
The present bill (without mentioning the proceeding to
annul -the probate, set forth in the answers), alleged that,
immediately after the death of Duncan McArthur, his five
children; desiring to obtain for themselves the whole of his real
and personal estate, and to deprive his grandchildren of all the
provisions intended for them by his will, unlawfully combined
and confederated with other persons, and, contriving to defraud
the plaintiffs, procured and brought about the tender and
acceptance of the resignations of the executors, and appropriated
to their own use all his personal property, and, by means of
the proceeding in partition above mentioned, divided all his
lands among themselves, and conveyed parts of the same to

McARTHUR v. SCOTT.

3 53

Counsel for Parties.

other persons, and, in defence of their fraudulent conspiracy
and doings, pretended that he died intestate, and they as his
children had inherited his lands. These allegations were denied
in the answers.
At the hearhig upon bill and answers, the Circuit Court dis-'
missed the bill, and the plaintiffs appealed to this court.
The cause was first argued in January, 1884. It was reargued in April, 1884, by order of the court.
.&. Lawrence .Maxwell,. .., for appellants at the first argument. 21r. .Maxwell and kr. Witlam X .Ram8ey for appellants at the re-argument.

.Mr. Richard A. Hamson for the appellees David H.
Scott, Administrator of William Allen, deceased, David
H. Scott, and Effie H. Scott, heirs at law of William Allen,
deceased, at the first argument; and also at. the rehearing in
April
.Xr. JohnW.. Hemon for James M. Glenn, Trustee, appellee,
at the first hearing.
..
w T..caintick for Dr. C. A. Trimble and Anna T.
Madeira and others, heirs of Mary Trimble, deceased, appellees,
at the first hearing.
.Mr.Henry F. Page for Johnson Caldwell, Lawrence Crookham, Aristeus Hulse. Levi Luiz, Hepzibah Hulse, Sarah Florence, and others, appellees, at the first hearing.
Mr. P. C. Smith filed a brief on behalf of Jonas Htulse and
Samuel M. Owens, appellees.
It is not possible to report the substance of each of these
elaborate arguments without doing injustice to other cases.
Abstracts are given: (1) of the argument of appellants' counsel; (2) of the argument of .r. Harriorm; (3) of so much of
VOL. 0in.-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Argument for .Appellants.

the arguments of his associates, as supplemented his argument,
or varied from, or was in conflict with,-his positions.
Mr. Maxwell and -Mr.Ramsey for appellants: (their brief was
also signed by Mi'. Rufus Zing and 3fXr. S. J. Thompso).-I. As to the question of _oerpetuitie8. 1. The case is governed
by the statute, passed December 17, 1811,* which has since
been in force in Ohio continuously. 2 Chase's Statutes of Ohio,
762. It is not disputed that the common law was in force in
Ohio prior to the passage of this act, Railroad Co. v. Keary,
3 Ohio St. 201. The policy of Ohio in favor of issue and descendants is shown, by this act, to be more liberal than the common
law. In Ohio an estate tail is not alienable by the donee in tail,
Pollock v. Speidel, 17 Ohio St. 439; nor, during his life, by
his issue, Dart v. Dart, 7 Conn. 250, approved in Pollocko v.
iSpeide. Therefore, an estate tail given, as it may be, to the
unborn issue of a person in being, is, in Ohio, inalienable
during three successive generations, whereas, at the common
law, land could never be tied up longer than two generations
and twenty-one years. On the part of the courts of the State,
the same liberal tendency is disclosed. In Cribson v. A1Nceely,
11 Ohio St. 131, a doubtful clause of a will was construed as
giving a life estate to children, with remainder in tail to their
issue, rather than as making the children donees 'in tail; and
upon the very ground, as stated by the court, that such construction would better effect the desire of the testator to restrain alienation as long as possible. The Supreme Court of
Ohio has nevr yet declared a devise void for remoteness. The
* -AN Acr to restrict the entailment of real estate.

SEcTiON 1. Be it enacted by the General A88embly of the State of Ohio, That
from and after the taking effect of this act, no estate in fee simple, fee tail, or
any lesser estate, in lands or tenements, lying within this State, shall be given
or granted by deed or will to any person or persons,"but such as are in being,
or to the immediate issue or descendants of such as are in being at the time of
making such deed or will ; and that all estates given in tail shall be and remain an absolute estate in fee simple to the issue of the first donee in tail.
This act to take effect and be in force from and after the first 'day of June
next."

McARTHUR v. SCOTT.
Argument for Appellants.

following cases show to what extent it has gone to uphold
wills against that "charge. Stevenson v. -Evane, 10 Ohio St.
307; Gibson v. .AfcNeely, 11 Ohio St. 131; Turley v. T2urley,
11 Ohio St. 173; Brasher v. Marsh, 15 Ohio St. 103.-The
act of 1811 is a: restraining, not an nabling act. It does not
supersede the common law. It modifies it, by cutting off
altogether the period, within which, after lives in being, an
estate must vest, except in favor of the immediate issue or descendants of persons in being at the making of the will; so that
there may be no devise except to persons in being or to their
immediate issue or descendants, leaving the common-law rule
intact with respect to such issue or descendants. The statute
does not contemplate the necessity of a 'precedent particular estate to the person to whose immediate issue or descendant the estate is subsequently limited. There need be"
no particular estate, or if there be one it may be granted to
some one other than the one to whose immediate issue the
ultimate estate is given, and .still the grant is valid under the
statute.-2. The provision for children of predeceased grandchildren, if illegal, does not affect the validity of the devise to
complainants. It is settled that the words "immediate issue"
in this statute mean children, and "immediate descendants"
include all to whom, under the statute of descents, an inheritable estate would descend immediately. Turley v. Turley, 11
Ohio St. 173. The complainants are the immediate issue of
persons in being at the making of the will, and are therefore
within the terms of the statute, and the time for final distribution
is within twenty-one years after lives in being. If the complainants, being immediate issue of persons in being at the
making of the will, are, under its terms, and necessarily within
twenty-one years after lives in being, entitled each to an
ascertainable aliquot part of the lands in suit, they may recover; and it is no answer that other portions of those lands
are limited to others too remotely. Wilkil8on v. Dancan. 30
Beav. 111 ; aGr Ith v. Pownall, 13 Sim. 393 ; Storrs v. Benbow,
3 DeG. M. & G. 390, and 2 MyL & K. 46 ; Cattln v. Brown, 11
Hare, 372; Goodier v. Johnso, 18 Ch. D. 441; Darling v.
.Rogers, 22 Wend. 483; Zane v. Gott, 24: Wend. 641; Savage

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Argument for Appellants.

v. Burnham, 17 N. Y. 561, 576; Downing v. .Mar8hall,23 N.
Y. 366; Adams v. Perry, 43 N. Y. 487; Purdy v. Hayt, 92

N. Y. 446; Zowry v. .uldrow,

8 Rich. Eq. 241.

Coun-

sel for appellees rely upon Leake v. Robinon, 2 Meriv. 363
and the cases which follow it. Those cases do not decide
that a devise to two classes, or individuals, void as to one is,
therefore, void as to the other; or that if the entire intention
of the testator with respect to any. subject matter may not be
lawfully carried out, it must, therefore, fail altogether ; or that
if a gift includes in one description persons capable and persons
incapable, by reason of remoteness, it is, -therefore,invalid as to
all; on the contrary, they recognize, and some of them expressly decide, the very opposite doctrine. The common-law
rule is completely expressed in .the simple statement that a devise, to be valid, must necessarily vest, if at all, within twentyone years after lives in being, counting a child en vente 8a
mere as in being. Any devise, which necessarily vests within
that period is good; and it is quite immaterial that in the same
sentence or clause, or with respect to the same subject matter,
there be other devises which are too remote, or even that upon
the identical devise there be engrafted remote ulterior limitations.
IL The devise to :the grandchildren was a vested estate. It
has been assumed for the purposes of argunent thus far, that
the estate devised did not vest at testator's death. But it did
vest then; and thatbeing so, the question of remoteness disappears. The trustees took a legal estate, in fee simple. Nothing
less would suffice for the execution of the trusts imposed upon
them. Seame v. Rusell, 8 Gray, 86; Bees v. William8, 2 M.
& W. 7'49; Garth.'v. Baldwin, 2 Yes. Sen. 646; Doe v. Edlin, 4 Ad. & El. 582; Doe v. Fied, 2 B. & Ad. 564; Xoore
v. Burnet, 11 Ohio, 334; .Neilson v. Lagow, 12 How. 98.
This disposes of the claim that the estate devised to the grandchildren is a vested legal remainder limited upon the legal
estate given to the trustees. Nor is the estate of the grandchildren an equitable remainder. The estate of the grandchildren is not a remainder at all; it is not what remained
after carving out a particular estate, legal or equitable; it is

McARTHUR v. SCOTT.
Argument for Appellants.

not an estate limited to take effect at the expiration of a prior
estate; but an equitable right, upon the happening of a particular event, to wit, the arrival at majority of the youngest
grandchild, the children being dead, to have the lands partitioned, and conveyed to them in fee simple. Holt v. Lamb,
17 Ohio St. 374, 387; Phipps v. Ackers, 9 01. & Fin., 583.
The devise is an executory trust, which creates a legal estate
in fee simple in the trustees, and an equitable estate in fee, to
commence infaturo,in the grandchildren living at the death
of the testator, subject to open and let in after-born grandchildren, with a devise over of the share of any grandchild
dying leaving issue, to such issue.
"hippsv. Ackers, 9 C1. &
Fin. 583; Jeefers v. Lamp8on, 10 Ohio St. 101; Linton v.
Laycock, 33 Ohio St. 128; Fox v. Fox, L. R. 19 Eq. 286;
Doe v. Considine, 6 Wall. 458; Hawkins on Wills, 237241.-To prevent a perpetuity the devise to grandchildren
dying before distribution may be construed as an estate
tail. Allyn v. .father, 9 Conn. 114, 127; Doe v. Cooer,
1 East, 229, 234; Humberston v. Humberston, 1 P. Wins. 332.
Where an instrument is open to two constructions, the one consistent and the other repugnant to law, or the one will give
effect to the whole instrument and the other will destroy a part,
the former must be adopted. Pruden v. Pruden,14 Ohio St.
251. The whole doctrine of estates tail cypres is founded on
this principle. See Hawkins on Wills, 181, quoting 2foneypenny
v. Dering. 16 M. & W. 428; same, 182, citing fVanderplanke v.
-Ying, 3 Hare, 1.
III. As to the Ross County Record. 1. Neither the complainants nor their trustees were parties to this record. The
only parties to the proceeding, so far as the land in
question is concerned, were the children of the testator, and
his then living grandchildren. The complainants were not
then in being. The trustees for grandchildren were not parties;
and the bill alleged that the persons made defendants were the
only persons specified in the will.-2. A proceeding to -contest
a will under the statute of Ohio* binds only the parties thereto.
* The statute in force at the time, and under which these proceedings were
had, was the act relating to wills, passed February 18, 1831, 8 Chase Stat.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Argument for Appellants.

It is not an 'exoparte proceeding, or in the nature of a proceeding in rem, but a suit in ipersonam in chancery, whose decree
binds none but the parties. Holtv. Lamb, 17 Ohio St. 374. This
settled construction of the statute by the courts of Ohio is
binding upon this court, as much so as if part of the statute.
Polk v. -endall, 9 Cranch, 87, 98; Thatcher v. Powell,
6 Wheat. 119, 127; Jackson v. Chew, 12 Wheat. 153; Nichols
v. Levy, 5 Wall. 433; Williams v. Kirtland, 13 Wall. 306;
Barrett v. Holmes, 102 U. S. 651; Burgess v. Seligman,
'107 U. S. 20, 33; Iefmngwell v. Warren, 2 Black, 599, 603;
ifoJeen v. .Delancy, 5 Cranch. 22; Christy v. Pridgeon, 4
Wall. 196. In order that there may be a proceeding in rem,
the res must be either (1) a thing guilty, that is, s6me act
must have been done in, with, or by it, in contravention of some
law having the forfeiture of such misused thing as its sanction;
or (2) it must be a thing hostile, in other words, owned or controlled by a public enemy; or (3) it must be a thing indebted,
that is liable in law for the payment of a sum of money. It is
manifest that a suit to.set aside a will is not in rem. Strictly
speaking, it is not a suit, but a proceeding to secure the registration of a posthumous conveyance.-3. The legal trust estate
was not affected by the proceedings to set aside the will. The
resignations did not divest the trustees of -the legal estate; but
even if they did, the estate passed to the heirs charged with the
trust. Adam8 v. Adams, 21 Wall. 185, 192; Story Eq. Jur.
976; Jeremy Eq. 163; Hargrave's note 146 to Co.Lit. 113 a;
1 Spence Eq. Jur. 501; Perry on Trusts, ยง 240.-It is equally.
clear that the equitable estate of the complainants was not
affected by the suit to set aside the will. If it did not
vest at the testator's death in the grandchildren then living,
1785. Sec. 20 (p. 1788), is as follows: "That if any person interested shall,
within two years after probate had, appear and by bill in chancery contest the
validity of the will, an issue shall be made up, whether the writing produced
be the last will of the testator or testatrix or not ; which shall be tried by a
jury, whose verdict shall be final between the parties, saving to the court the
power of granting a new trial, as in other cases ; but if no person appear in
that time, the probate shall be forever binding; saving also to infants, married
women, and persons absent from the State, or of insane mind, or in captivity,
the like period after the removing of their respective disabilities."

McARTHUR v. SCOTT.
Argument for Appellants.

-it was not represented. If it was then vested in the grandchildren who were parties to the suit, it was subject to be divested to let in after-born grandchildren. It is well settled that
the rights of the unborn in such case are not affected by a decree against the living holders. Downin v. Sprecher, 35 Maryland, 474; Graham v. Houghtalin,, I Vroom, 552; .Afonarqie
v. Monarque, 80 N. Y. 320 ; Goodess v. Williams, 2 Yo. & Col.
Ch.595. The cases cited by opposite counsel on this point are
all cases of contingent remainders, or estates tail, or suits for
partition, or by trustees to change investments. See Watson v.
Waton, 3 Jones Eq. 400; Lancaster v. Thompson, 5 Madd. 4, 13;
Adairv. New River Co., 11 Yes. 428, 444 ; York v. Pilkington,
1 Atk. 282; Atto'rney Generalv.Corporationof London, 8 Beav.
270, 282; Holland v. Baker, 3 Hare, 68. "The great and essential difference between the nature of a contingent remainder, and that of an executory devise (and that, indeed, which
renders it material to distinguish the one from the other in
their creation) consists in this: that the first may be barred and
destroyed, or prevented from taking effect, by several different
means; whereas, it is a rule, that an executory devise cannot
be prevented or destroyed, by any alteration whatsoever in the
estate out of which, or after which it is limited." Fearne on
Remainders, 418. If courts, where no person is in existence
entitled to an estate of inheritance, have sometimes placed on
record an existing tenant for life, that has never been done unless the tenant was one whose issue, if he were to have any,
would become entitled to the inheritance. Calvert on Parties,
60. And the bill must contain a specific allegation that the
parties are suing on behalf of themselves and others. The
right of one defendant to represent many in a common interest
is limited to cases where the rights in issue are in the nature
of general rights, and to cases in which the object of the suit
is merely to change the form of the property to which they attach-certainly not where its object is to divest or destroy
them. Representation by an adverse interest is an absurdity
which the law does not contemplate. Thus the unborn grandchildren, not being represented in law or in fact, in the suit to
set aside the will, their estate remains intact. Even if the will

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Mr. Harrison's Argument for Appellees.

is in law set aside, that does not cut off the equity of the bill
For a court of equity will compel trustees who have caused the
trust estate to be conveyed to themselves in fraud of the rights of
the cestuis que trust to account as trustees. Long v. .ulford, 17
Ohio St. 509; Rammelsberg v. Alitchell, 29 Ohio St. 57 ; Hill
on Trustees, 144; Perry on Trusts, ยง 181, citing ]iddleton v.
.Xiddleton, 1 Jac. & Walk. 96 ; ReecA v. Kennegal, 1 Ves. Sen.
123 ; Oldham v. Litchfeld, 2 Vernon, 506 ; Xestaer v. Gillespie,
11 Ves. 620, 638. See also Yeader v. IYorton, 11 Wall. 442,
457; Cocks v. Izard, 7 Wall. 559; Slater v. -3faxwell, 6 Wall.
268, 276 ; James v. Railroad Co., 6 Wall. -752 ; Goodin v. Cin.
& Whitewater CanalOo., 18 Ohio St. 169; .Xichoudv. Girod,
4 How. 503.
IV: As to the defence of innocent purchasers. This applies only to a defendant who has purchased the legal title
in ignorance of the complainant's equitable title. 'Fattier
v. Hinde, 7 Pet. 252; Langdell Eq. P1. ยง 140. The defendants who set up that defence either have not acquired the legal
title, or had notice of the equitable title. The probate and
record of the will passed title to.the devisees in the land devised
from the death of the testator wherever situated in the State.
Hall v. As by, 9 Ohio, 96; Carpenter v. .Denoon, 29 Ohio St.
379, 395. There can be no defence of innocent purchase in the
face of a recorded 'title. Dick v. Balch, 8 Pet. 30. See
Nichols v. Eaton, 81 U. S. 716 ; Day v. 3ficou, 18 Wall. 156.
.M.. Harrison,for appellees.-I. As to the Statute of Probate * and the proceedingsunder it in Ross ounty.-1. While
the verdict and decree annulling the will remain in force, neither
the actual parties to the proceeding in which the verdict and decree were rendered, nor the appellants, who were not born until
many years after the coiftest, can treat them as nullities, nor
collaterally impeach them. The object of the suit was, to determine the legal status of the writing' produced. All interested
and decree operpersons then in ese were parties. The verdict
ated uPon the entire instumenl, the legal status of which was in*Se a de, p. 857.

MoARTHIUR v. SCOTT.
Mr. Harrison's Argument for Appellees.

divisible. The right to make the will and: the right to contest
it were created and regulated by the same statute. The latterright to contest-within the time and in the mode prescribed,
could not be cut off by any provision in the will itself. The issue
in the contest was not an adversary suit. There were strictly
no parties. The statute conferred jurisdiction upon the court
over the thing itself. The first proceeding under the statute,
to prove the will, is ec yarte and in rem; the second, to set
aside the probate, is equally so; though in form original, in
fact it is in the nature of an appeal. The entirety of the question decided in each' court'is apparent. Therefore the verdict
establishes the will, as a whole, or annuls it as a whole. The
court, in controlling the preparation and directing the progress
of the contest, must look to the persons interested, whether
they are in existence or not, because they are to be affected,
consequentially, by the verdict. But neither the question submitted for decision nor the jury who are to decide it have any
direct reference to them. The verdict is not against persons;
it is against the thing in contest. The statute prescribed who
should be parties to the suit; and limited the time within which it
should be brought. The appellants, being born after expiration:
of the time, could not be made parties; and as the instrument
could not be set aside as to living interested persons-and remain
in force as to unborn executory devisees, it follows that the
verdict and decree bind the appellants. See Singleton v.
Singleton, 8 B. Monroe, 340; Hunt v. Acre, 28 Ala. 580; Scott
v. Calvit, 3 How. (Miss.) 148; Benoi8t v. .Afurrin, 48 Missouri, 48; tcayne8 v. _Haynem, 33 Ohio St. 598; Brown v.
Burdick, 25 Ohio St. 260; .Afee8e v. Rlqfe, 10 Ohio, 362; Bradford v. Andrew8, 20 Ohio St. 208.-2. The case of Holt v.
Lam, 17 Ohio St. 374, relied upon by opposing counsel, is not
in point. The testatrix there devised vested estates to persons in
being when the will was made and took effect, and when the
will was contested. Aside from this, the uling is unsound,
and in conflict with other decisions of the same court. .Aeese
v. efe, 10 Ohio, 362; Bradford v. Andrews, 20 Ohio St.
208; Wacdker v. Walker, 14 Ohio St. 157, 176; Brown v. Burdick, 25 Ohio St. 260, 266; Hayne8 v. Baynes 33 Ohio St.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Mr. Harrison's Argument for Appellees.

598.-3. Decrees in. chancery often bind interests in property
devised to unborn persons. Lorillard v. Co8ter, 5 Paige, 172;
Palmer . Flower, L. R. 13 Eq. 250; Basuet v. .foxon,L. R.
20 Eq. 182; fills v. Slade, 6 Yes. 498; Cro8 v. De Valle, 1
Wall. 1. If such a verdict and decree are inoperative as to
interests of persons unborn and unascertained when the decree
is rendered, then the instrument cannot be set aside as to such
interests at all, and the absolute right conferred by the statute
to contest the will would be frustrated. The purposes of the
legislature would be nullified. The right of alienation might
be suspended indefinitely, by the terms of an instrument, adjudged to be a nullity after a trial by jury. The adoption
of this theory would in many cases render the administration of
estates impracticable.--4. The rule that we contend for is
founded on public policy; it is essential to the repose of titles
founded on wills; it is necessary for quieting litigation that
verdicts and decrees in contested will cases should be binding
upon contingent and executory interests of persons not in e.se
and ascertained when the contest takes place. See fosier v.
Ifarmon, 29 Ohio St. 220, 255-6; Walker v. Walker, 14 Ohio St.
15T, 175, and the other cases above cited from the Kentucky,
Alabama, Mississippi, Missouri, and Georgia reports.-5. It
is the duty bf the court, in cases in which-the validity of a will
is contested under the wills act of Ohio, to control the preparation, and direct and control the progress of the proceedings,
and look to and protect the interests of unborn persons to
whom contingent bequests or devises are made, although it is
uncertain whether such persons will ever come into being, and,
even if they should, whether such interests will ever vest.
And see Scott v. Calvit, above cited.-6. The rule as to
the persons upon whom judgments and decrees in actions
in yersonam are binding, is not applicable in a proceeding, under this statute, to contest the validity of a will.-7.
The fact that there were no executors in existence when the
decree was rendered, does not entitle the appellants to treat it
as a nullity; upon the acceptance of their resignations they were
functi o,ficio. The contestant was not obliged to have executors appointed. To have done so would have been a recogni-

MoARTHUR v. SCOTT.
Mr. Harrison's Argument for Appellees.

tion of the will. The powers given to the executors were
given to the office, not to the persons. An executor is to be
considered as holding property devised to him in that character,
unless it clearly appear from the face of the will that the testator intended it to be held by him as a special trustee. State
v. .Z/col8, 10 Gill & Johns. 27; Perkins Y. Ifoore, 16 Ala. 9;
Steele v. Worthington, 2 Ohio, 182; Gandolpwo v. "Walker,15 Ohio
St. 251. If a special trust is cast upon an executor, as executor, the execution of such trust is a duty superadded to his
ordinary official duties as executor, and until he qualifies himself
and assumes to act in his separate capacity as special trustee, the
bond to perform his duties as executor binds him and his sureties to the execution of such trust; for in such cases he acts in
the capacity of executor, and dces not become a special trustee
until he actually qualifies as such. Perkinsv. .oore, 16 Ala. 9;
Newcombe v. WTlliams, 9 Met. 525; Dor v. Vainw2ight, 13
Pick. 328; Towne v. Ammidown, 20 Pick. 535; Felton v. Sawyer, 41 N. H. 202.-8. These executors did not qualify, or assume
to act as special trustee& Their trust was to all intents executorial The will devised the legal title to the lands in contest
to them for a limited time-qua executors, and not nominatim.
Upon their qualification, it vested in them as such. Their
resignations and the acceptance of them again divested them of
it, and the legal title vested in the heirs, until the appointment
and qualification of successors. Having ceased to be executors,
they did not represent the estate, and were not necessary parties to the suit.-9 It is not requisite in order to sustain, as
aginst the plaintiffs, the verdict annulling "the writing produced" as Duncan McArthur's will, to apply to the case the
principle of virtual representation of persons not in esse by
actual parties to a suit. If it were necessary, that principle
could be applied. According to the reasons upon which the
doctrine of virtual representation securely rests, the plaintiffs
in the present suit were virtually represented in the proceeding
to contest the alleged will, by the grandchildren of the decedent who were actual parties to the proceeding. The will
devised the lands in controversy to all the grandchildren,
whether born or unborn at the death of the testator, as a class,

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Mr. Harrsons Argument for Appellees.

and the title and possession -were, by the will, to vest in every
member of the class at one and the same time. Hence, the
grandchildren who were iii being and actual parties to the contest, stood, when the contest was had, and when it must take
place if at all, in precisely the same relation to the alleged will
and the estate devised, as the grandchildren who were afterwards born. It follows that the grandchildren who were
actual parties must, under the circumstances and from considerations of necessity, be held, for the purposes of the contest,
to have virtually represented after-born grandchildren. Afead
v. .7fitchell, 17 N. Y. 210: Baylor's Lessee v. Dejarnette, 13
Gratt. 152; Faulkner v. Davis, 18 Gratt. 651 ; Sohier v. William8, 1 Curtis, 479; Giflord v. H~ort, 1 -Sch. & Lef. 386;
Gaskell v. Gaskell, 6 Sim. 643; Powell v. TrF/94g, 7 Beav. 444;
Camn4bell v. Watson, 8 Ohio, 498.--10. When the statute says
that "the verdict shall be final between the parties" it means
all parties in interest, whether actual present parties or unborn
persons represented by acts of parties having identity of interest with them.-1. The order of the court appointing an admin-'
istrator upon the estate of the decedent, as an intestate estate,
and the order settling the final account of the administrator,
are conclusive and have universal effect. They cannot be
treated as nullities, nor collaterally attacked, by any person.
Jennison v. Hfapgood, 7 Pick. 1; Field v. Hiteheock, 14 Pick. 405,
407 ; Clark v. Pishon, 31 Maine, 503; Record v. Howard, 58
Maine, 225 ; Sever v. Russel, 4 Cush. 513.-12. If the complainants are entitled to any relief, their only remedy is by a proper
bill in the Court of Common Pleas of Ross County, in the nature of a bill of review, and not by a petition for partition in
this Court, treating the entire proceeding by which the pretended will was set aside and annulled, as absolute nullities.
Voorhees v. Bank of United States, 10 Pet. 449; Grignon
Lessee v. Astor, 2 How. 319; Comstoce v. Crawford, 3 Wall.
396; Cooper v. Reynolds, 10 Wall. 308, 315; 3foNitt v. Turner, 16 Wall. 352; Singleton v. Singleton, 8 B. Monroe, 340.
II. The supposed devises of the land in controversy would
have been held void, even if the pretended will had not been set
aside. 1. The gift of the estate in fee contravenes the statute

McARTHTUR v. SCOTT.
Mr. Harrison's 'Argument for Appellees.

of Ohio against perpetuities.*. Under the provision of the will
it is possible that the estate given might not vest during the
lifetime of a person in being when the will was made, nor at
the death of such person, nor during the lifetime of the immediate issue or descendant of such person.. It is well settled
that this possibility makes the entire gift void. :From the earliest times the English courts set ,themselves against perpetuities. First they would allow only limitations to take effect at
the end of one life from the testator's death. Then this was
elarged to include two or more lives in being; that being
regarded as only the one life of the longest lives. The next
step taken by the courts was much debated; but it was finally
settled that an executory devise might be made to vest at the
end of lives in being and twenty-one years after, to allow for
the infancy of the next taker, who, by reason of infancy, could
not alienate the estate. Taylor v. Biddal, 2 Madd. 289. The
statute of 10 and 11 William Ill., c. 16, having provided that
children en ventre 8a mere, born after their father's death,
should, for the purposes of the limitations of estates, be deemed
to have been born in his lifetime, a further extension of nine
or ten months was'allowed for the period of gestation. Goodman v. Goodright,2 Burr. 873. The next step was to allow a
period of nine months for gestation at the beginning of the
term, as the life in being during which the term would run
might be that bf a child en. ventre sa mere. Iong v. Blackll,
7 T. R. 100.-2. This common-law rule as to perpetuities
the legislature regarded as incompatible with republican institutions: this was the mischief which it attempted to remedy by
the statute. This and kindred legislation in other States aimed
to prevent property from being tied up, and the power of its
disposition suspended.-3. As to the interpretation of this
statute. It was a restraining and not *an enabling act. In
Turley v. Turley, 11 Ohio St. 173, it was held that a devise
to children of predeceased children was not in conflidt with
the statute, and that "immediate descendants" includes all to
whom, under the statute of descents, an estate would have
* See ante, page 854, note.

OCTOBER TERM, 1881.
Mr. Harrison's Argument for Appellees.

descended immediately from the particular person whose
descendants they are required by the will to be. In Harness
v. Coming, 24 Ohio St. 416, it was decided that the statute
does not change the nature of the estate in the first donee
in tail from an inheritable estate to an estate for life only.
Among other results, which, as we contend flowed from these
several decisions, were the following: (a.) Immediately upon
the termination of a particular estate by the death of the
person in being at the time of making the will, to whom
such particular estate is given, the entire inheritance must immediately vest in the person or persons to whom the estate in
remainder, or any future estate by way of executory devise,
conditional limitation, etc., is given. (b.) Grandchildren or
great-grandchildren, or other immediate issue or descendants
of persons in being at the time of making the will, may take
an estate in remainder, or any future estate, by way of executory devise, &c., provided they are in esse when the particular
estate given to a person living when the will is made terminates by his death. (c.) But grandchildren or great-grandchildren, or other issue or descendants of persons in being at the
time of making the will, who are born subsequently to the
death of the person in being when the will was made, and to
whom a particular estate is given, cannot take. (d.) By the
common law, estates in remainder, or any future estates by
way of executory devise, &c., may be so limited that the vesting of the same can be postponed until after a life or lives in
being at the death of the testator and twenty-one years; but
under the statute the vesting of such estates cannot be postponed beyond the death of a person or persons in being when
the will was made. They cannot, therefore, be so limited as
that they will not vest until after the death of a person or persons in being when the will was made, and when and as soon as
a person or persons not then in being shall arrive at twenty-one
years of age. (e.) Under the statute, where estates for life,
either legal or equitable, are given to persons in being at the
making of the will, and the fee is so given that the persons
respectively to whom it is given take the same by descent, and
not by purchase, through the tenants for life respectively, the

McARTHUR v. SCOTT.
Mr. Harrison's Argument for Appellees.

vesting of the estates in fee cannot be postponed until the death
of all the tenants for life; but in such case the estates must
vest in the immediate issue or descendants from time to time,
and as each tenant for life dies; the issue or descendants of
each tenant for life taking in fee such part of, or interest in,
the premises as was held by each tenant for life respectively.
This statute cannot be evaded by means of a trust, condition,
or other device. The limits prescribed to the creation of future
estates and interests are the same at law and in equity. Ould
v. Tashington lo&pital, 95 U. S. 303; Nforfolk *. Howard, 1 Vernon, 163; Brattle Square Murch v. Grant, 3 Gray,
141, 155, and cases there cited. It is equally well settled that
the contingency upon the happening of which the estate is
to vest, must happen within the time fixed by law. If by possibility, it may happen later, the limitation and the devises
creating it are void. Ouid v. Washington kospital,and Brattlo
SquarA Church v. Grant,both cited above; Nightingalev. Burrell, 15 Pi~k. 104, 111 ; Sears v. Russell, 8 Gray, 96, 98; Everitt
v. Everitt, 29 Barb. 112 ; Lewis on Perpetuities, 170 ; Amory v.
Laird, 5 Selden (0 N.: Y.) 403, 415; Jackson v. Billinger, 18
Johns. 367, 381 ;.' .elsh v. Foster, 12 Mass. 93 ; Done v. Van
Schaick, 7 Iai e, 221. When a gift includes in one description
persons capable and persons incapable, by reason of remoteness, the entire gift is void. Jferv. Dungannon, 1 Dru. &War.
509. An executory devise transgressing the allowed limits is
void as a whole, and not simply for the excess. Leak v. Robin80n, 2 Meriv. 363, 389. It follows, from the settled principles
above stated, that if the alleged will of Duncan McArthur by
reason of the trusts, conditions, or limitations therein, concerning
the real estate in contest, prevented, or might by any possibility
have prevented the vesting of the estate, or suspended the free
transmission thereof to a period beyond the lives of persons in
being at the time of the making of the will, the devises containing such trusts, conditions, or limitations are void and linmediately upon his decease the estate vested absolutely in his heirs at
law. We bubmit that, upon an examination of the several clauses
of the will in regard to the lands in contest, it appears beyond
doubt that they contain truscs, conditions, and limitations of

OCTOBER TER,

1884.

Mr. Harrison's Argument for Appellees.

such a natire as to prevent the vesting of the estate, or suspend the free transmission thereof to a period beyond the lives
of persons in being at the time of the making of the will, and
provide for the vesting of the estate in persons o+her than the
"immediate issue or descendants of persons in )eing at the
time of the making of the will." An analytical examination of
the clauses of the will shows: 1st. That the lands were devised to the executors in trust. 2d. That the legal estate
was in the executors, with right of possession for the lives of
the children and until the last and youngest grandchild attained the age of twenty-one years. 3d. That the fents and
profits during this time were to go to the children, the minor
child or children of a child dying, and such grandchildren as
might attain the age of twenty-one, to the exclusion of grandchildren under twenty-one. 4th, and that no vested interest
in the remainder was given: that the devise was contingent,
and became vested, when the youngest or last grandchild
reached twenty-one, in such grandchildren or great-grandchildren as were then in life. The testator intended himself to control the descent of the estate until the death .ofall his children,
and the arrival of his youngest grandchild to the age of twentyone years. He intended to keep the vast estate in his family
for generations. The-will must be construed so as to carry out
this cardinal idea. There is no distinct 'gift of the lands to
grandchildren unconnected with the actual occurrence, and the
time of the occurrence of the events nailied in the devise of the
lands. The disposition actually made by the testator is perfectly manifest, and is plainly inconsistent with the statute of
Ohio "to restrict the entailment of real estate," and is void.
See Colton v. Fox, 67 N. Y. 348 ; Qln6y v. Hull, 21 Pick. 311 ;
Thompson v. Luddington, 104 Mass. 198 ; Stephens v. Evans, 30
Indiana, 39; MeBride v. iSmyth, 54 Penn. St. 245; 'Baylor v.
Dejarnette,13 Gratt. 152. The provision of the will requiring
the executor to divide the estate among grandchildren and greatgrandchildren living when certain future events occur is inkittende v.
compatible with the idea of a present vesting.
when the
is
contingent
Y.
289.
A
remainder
Fairchild,41 N.
persons who are to take ;t are uncertan. HaWley v. James, 16

McARTHUR v. SCOTT.
Mr. Harrison's Argument for Appellees.

Wend. 60, 140. These estates are future estates. There are
no words of present gift. See also Eyre v. .- ar8den, 2 Keen,
564; Blease v. Burgh, 2 Beav. 221, 226. If a limitation be to
a class, collectively, and a part of these be beyond the limit of
remoteness, it is void as to all. Porter v. Fox, 6 Sim. 485. In
this case all of the class are beyond the limits of remoteness
tolerated by the statute of Ohio. The devise of the lands to the
executors in trust to receive the rents and profits does not save
the devise to grandchildren and great-grandchildren living at the
expiration of the trust, from the operation of the statute against
perpetuities. The trust suspends the power of alienation, and unless its continuance is limited according to law, it is void in its
creation. Boy2ton v. loyt, 1 Denio, 53. Where land is devised
upon a trust void as tending to create a perpetuity, the heir is
entitled to recover. Hillyard v. diller, 10 Penn. St. 326. The
contention that the devise creates an estate tail is untenable.
The words "children" and" grandchildren" are used in the will
as descriptive of persons, or classes of persons, to whom the
rents and profits are to be distributed; and "grandchildren"
and "child" or "1children" of "grandchildren" are further
used as descriptive of the persons in whom the fee is to vest.
In their proper sense the words "child" and "grandchild" are
words of purchase. They are not treated as words of limitation unless necessary to carry out a manifest intent of a testator. The will did not create an estate tail, but an absolute
estate in fee simple to vest upon the death of all the"testatops
children and the arrival of the last or youngest grandchild at
the age of twenty-one. Even without the statutes of perpetuities these devises would have been held void in Ohio, where
the rules of the common law in this .respect have never been
recognized. Bloom v. ]?icards, 2 Ohio St. 387; Seui'geant
v. Steinberger, 2 Ohio, 305; King v. Beck, 15 Ohio, 559.
Counsel for appellants contend that the devise is good under
the English rule against perpetuities; but that rule would not
be held to prevail in Ohio if the statute had not been enacted.
See Harkne*8 v. Corning, 24 Ohio St. 416. Their proposition
that the devise is good under the act of 1811, because, the appellants are the immediate issue of persons in being when the
voL. ci1-24

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Mr. Harrison's Argument. for Appellees..-

will took effect, is also unsound. The appellants may be the
immediate issue; but others of the same class are not, and the
devise is of one subject matter to an entire class. When a gift
includes in one description persons capable and persons inca.;
pable by reason of remoteness, the entire gift is void. ifer
v. Dungannon, 1 Dru. & War. 509; Candy v. Campbell, 2 C1.
& Fin. 421; Greenwood v. Roberts, 15 Bear. 92; Snmith v.
Snith, L. R. 5 Oh. 342; Leake v. Robinson, 2 Meriv. 363.
And when there is a gift to a class, some of the objects of
which are too remote, and some t'ot, effect cannot be gives
to the latter, separated from the former, but the Whole gift is
void. Seaman v. Mood, 22 Beav. 591. The cases of Lowry v.
iu/drow 8 Rich. Eq. 24:1, and Savage v. Burnham; 17 N. Y.
561, relied on by the other side, are not in point to their claim
that under the statute the devise is not rendered void by the provision made for the great-grandchildren, because that devise was
merely substitutional. We reply to this claim, (1)that the purpose
of the will was perpetuity-that a contingency was possible in
which the whole estate might have been divided among greatgrandchildren ; and (2) that the time for vesting of the estate
is postponed beyond the time allowed by the act of 1811.
That was a restraining, not an enabling act, as explained in
the opening of the argument. The statute sets substantially
the bounds to the postponement of the vesting, which the common law first set to executo-ry -devises.-The grandchildren do
not take estates tail under the will. The cy pres doctrine ha
no application to this devise, because, (1) the doctrine is inapplicable when the limitation to the unborn children gives them
a fe,,. Hale v. Pew, 25 Deav. 335. And (2) the doctrine of cypres
is inadmissible where the paramount intention of the testator
is to create a perpetuity, and where the doctrine, if applied,
would effectuate his purpose in contravention of the declared
object of positive law.-The devises were contingent, not only
as to the time when the estate should be decided, but as to the
persons to take. When the existence of the devisee of a contingent remainder at a particular time makes part of the confingency, or enters into it, the remainder cannot descend. Appellants disregard the distinction between a contingency

McARTHUR v. SCOTT.
Mr Herron's Argument for Appellees.

depending on the person to take, and a contingent interest.
In the latter the representatives may take when the event occurs, though the first taker pointed out may not be in existence.
In the former nothing passes until the contingency happens.
Where remainders are created in which only persons who survive a particular event are to take, it is obviousthat no person
who does not survive the event can take, or have any transmissible estate. There is a manifest difference between such
remainders and those in which certain defined persons, ascertained without reference to a particular event, are to take on
the happening of such event. Here the devise was not to certain defined persons, irrespective of the event; on the contrary,
the remainder is limited to persons who were not in being
when the will was made, and who cannot be ascertained until
the event happens. The futurity here is annexed to the substance of the devise, and not to the time of partition only. 1
Jarman on Wills, 760, 645. The will bears marks of having
been prepared by a thoughtful lawyer. The use of the words
"when and as soon as" show a purpose of fixing the date
when the interest should vest. Colt v. Tubbard,33 Conn. 281,
285. See also Festing v. Allen, 12 M. & W. 279 ; Duy eld v.
Dufleld, 1 Dow & 01. 268, 314; Augustuy v. Seabolt, 3 Met.
(Ky.) 155; Tltorndike v. .Loring,15 Gray, 391.
Mr. Herron, in addition to the points presented by Mr.
Harrison urged as special defences on the part of his client,.
(1) That he was a bona fide purchaser direct from the heirs at
law of Duncan McArthur, after the resignation of the executors,
and when the legal title was, as he claimed, vested in the heirs;
and that having acquired that title for a valuable consideration
paid to the heirs, he had improved and occupied the lards as
his home for thirty years before suit brought. As to the
effect of these facts he cited Jei-rard v. Saunders, 2 Ves.
Jr. 454; Fitzsimmons v. Ogden, 7 Cranch, 2; Anketel v.
Converse, 17 Ohio St. 11. (2) The staleness of the complainants' claim. They had two claims. The first to the enjoyment
of the property left them under the will. That could not occur
until the youngest grandchild became of age. The second was

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Mr. McClintick's and Mr. Page's Arguments for Appellees.
to have the question of the probate of the will settled. That
might have been done at an earlier date, as many of the grandchildren were entitled to set up that claim prior to 1858, and
their interests were inseparable from those of complainant.
See Bradford v. Andrew8, 20 Ohio .St. 208, 219.
Mr. Y e Clntick argued from a careful historical review of the
legislation of Ohio relating to the proof of wills,* that the proceedings in the Court of Common Pleas for Ross County, setting aside the probate of the will were a bar to the present
claim. of the complainants. On the question of perpetuities he
rested on the arguments of tr. Harzson, and Ar. Herron.
. Mr. Page contended, 1. That the executors were not necessary parties to the suit to vacate the will. The grandchildren
of the testator in esse at the date of the suit, and parties to it,
had the remainder in fee at that time, and were the only
parties in existence who had it. The present complainants
necessarily could not be made parties; but they occupy the
same position as if they had been.
The remainder in fee
which opened to let them in, was represented in that suit by
the only parties who could represent it.
The whole legal
* The following Statutes of the Territory and of the State were cited by
.Mr. MXclinlickc:
Territorial act of August 30, 1788, 1 Chase Stat. 96;
Territorial act of June 19, 1795, 1 Chase Stat. 182;
Constitution of 1802, Schedule ยง 4, 1 Chase Stat. 84;
Same,-Art. III. ยง 5, 1 Chase Stat. 79 ;
Act of January 5, 1805, 1 Chase Stat. 492;
Act of February 18, 1808, 1 Chase Stat. 571;
Act of February 20, 1808, 1 Chase Stat. 577;
Act of February 10,1810, 1 Chase Stat. 680;
Act of February 19, 1810, 1 Chase Stat. 685
Act of February 8, 1812, 2 Chase Stat. 769 ;
Act of January 25, 1816, 2 Chase Stat. 929;
Act of February 26, 1824, 2 Chase Stat. 1305
Act of February 18, 1831, 3 Chase Stat. 1785;
Act of March 12, 1831, 3 Chase Stat. 1775
Act of March 3, 1834, 32 Ohio Laws, 41 ;
Act of March 16, 1839, 37 Ohio Laws, 57;
Act of March 23,1840, 38 Ohio Laws, 120.

McARTKUR v. SCOTT.
Mr. Page's Argument for Appellees.

estate, both in life and in remainder, was vested in the children
and grandchildren of the testator in trust, and it is to be presumed that they did their duty in defending the will. The
estate now claimed was represented in the suit by parties who
had a right to represent it. The claimants, coming into the
same estate, must take it as they find it. The general rule
requiring all parties to be representedi is confined to parties to
the interest involved in the issue. The rule may be dispensed
with in case of difficulty or extreme inconvenience. Hallett v.
Hallett, 2 Paige, 15. It is within the discretion of the court to
permit a suit to proceed without the appearance of a trustee,
when all the cetuiR que trust are parties; as when a trustee
for some reason cannot be compelled to appear. Walley v.
Walley, 1 Vernon, 484; Mfoore v. VTinten, 12 Sim. 161. See also
Brookes v. Burt, 1 Beav. 106; Seddon v. Cornwl, 10 Sim. 85.
A trustee named in a will who has refused- the trust is not a
necessary party. Creed v. Creed, 2 Hogan, 215. And one who
was released and never acted ought not to be a party. Richardson v. Hulbert, 1 Anstr. 65. And when the bill states (as did
the bill in Ross County) that there are no executors and none
can be had, the defect of their non-appearance, even if it were
one, is excused. 2 Maddock Ch. Pract. 178. It is not disputed
that had there been acting executors, they should have been made
parties; but even if they had been omitted, could any one else
have treated the proceedings as Void, in a collateral suit? If
the objection of defect of parties had been raised at the time,
the court might have ,required the bill to be amended. To
raise the objection in another suit after the lapse of thirty-five
years raises a different question. For, when 'neither party
raises such an objection, it is competent for the court to go on
and settle the rights ofthe parties before it, without prejudice
to those w'ho are not parties. Lorillardv. Coster, 5 Paige, 172.
And in such case, thougWh the omitted parties or their privies
in law or estate may object to the judgment, that objection
cannot be taken by a third party. Much less can a party to
the suit object that his trustee was not a party.-2. That the
devise to the 6xecutors was virtute offlcii. The trust was
annexed to the office, and not to tfie person of the executors.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Mr. Page's Argument for Appellees.

Jackson v. Fevwis, 15 Johns. 346; Warden v. Richards, 11
Gray, 277; .Afiller v. iteetch, 8 Penn. St. 418. An executor,
who renounces his office, the renunciation being followed by
twenty years of total non-interference with the estate, is deemed
to have renounced the trust, which is personal and discretionary.
Beekman v. Bonsar, 23 N. Y. 299. These executos never
accepted a trust under this will, distinct from the executorship.
When they resigned and their resignations were accepted, their
title was extinguished.-3. That the grandchildren not in esse
were parties by representation to the suit to sot aside the will.
Lorillardv. Ooster, 5 Paige, 172; Campbell v. Watson, 8 Ohio,
498; Mitford P1. 173; 1 Daniel Ch. Pract. 274; Dursley v.
Fitztardnge,6 Vesey, 251; Eagle Fire 1nsurance Co. v.
Canmett, 2 Edw. Oh. 127. See Faulkner v. Davis, 18 Gratt.
651, 684; Baylor v. Dejarnette, 13 Gratt. 152; .nott v. Stearns,
91 U. S. 638; Sohier v. Mfllian?ยง, 1 Curtis, 479; ffodi,,e v.
Greenfeld, 7 Paige, 544; Adams Eq. 315; Freeman v. Freeman, 9 Heisk. 301; .Jead v. Xfitchell, 17 N.- Y. 210, 214;
Clemens v. Olemens, 37 Id. 59; Brevoort v. CGrace, 53 Id. 245;
ONin v. Keith, I Hun, 589; Calvert on Parties, ch. IV.4. That executory interests are barred. The interests of the
grandchildren were vested. In Ohio future contingent interests, whether a remainder or executory devise, are transmissible by deed or will. Tkwmpson v. Hoop, 6 Ohio St.
480. Contingent limitations and executory devises, to persons not in being may be bound by a decree against a
person claiming a vested estate of inheritance. Story Eq.
P1. ยง 147; Mitford P1. 174; Calvert on Parties, 51.
The English rule is to bring before the court the person
entitled to the first estate of inheritance with those claiming
prior interests, omitting those who might claim the remainder
or reversion after such vested estate of inheritance. It would,
therefore, follow as a matter of course from this rule, that contingent limitations and executory devises to persons not in being
would in like manner be bound by a decree against the virtual
representatives of these remote and contingent interests, the
person having the first vested estate of inheritance. Mlead v.
Afitchell, 17 N. Y. 214; Clemens v. Clemens, 37 N. Y. 59;

McARTHUR v. SCOTT.
Opinion of the Court.

Brevoort v. Grace, 53 N. Y. 245. The English case of Goosde8
v. Willianm, 2 Yo. & Col. Ch. 596, is opposed to previous
English cases, and is in conflict with an unbroken line of
American cases.-5. That the grandchildren not in e88e were
properly represented.-6. That the plaintiff was not required
to have representatives appointed.-7. That if the court should
have appointed executors, it is an error not affecting the jurisdiction.-8. That the defence by guardian ad litem was
sufficient.-9. The counsel discussed the effect of'the verdict
and judgment under the Ohio act as to wills.-O. -That the
proceedings in Ross county cannot be impeached collaterally,
because of the omission to appoint executors.
GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case presents three principal questions:
First. Whether the equitable estate in fec. which Duncan
McArthur by his will undertook to devise to hiN grandchildren,
children of his five surviving children, was vested or contingent ?
Second. Whether the devise of that estate, so far as it is to
the present plaintiffs, was void for remoteness?
Third. Whether the decree in 1839, setting aside his will and
annulling the probate, is a bar to this suit?
I. The principal provisions of the will of Duncan McArthur,
material to the decision of this case, are as follows:
By the fifteenth clause, he directs that his lands in the
counties of Ross and Pickaway shall be leased or rented by his
executors "until the youngest or last grandchild which I now
have, or may hereafter have," the child of either of his five
surviving children, Allen 0., James MciD., Effie, Eliza Ann or
Mary, "who may live to be twenty-one years of age, shall
arrive at that age." By the sixteenth clause, he directs that,
until that time, the income of these lands, and the dividends of
all stocks held by him or purchased by his executors, shall be
by them annually divided equally among the five children
aforesaid, or the issue of any child dying, and among the grandchildren also as they successively come of age.
The seventeenth clause provides as follows: "It is my further
will and direction that after the decease of all my children now
MR. JusTicE

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

living, and when and as soon as the youngest or last grandchild, in the next preceding clause but one of this will designated and described, shall arrive at the age of twenty-one
years, all my lands" in question "shall be inherited and
equally divided between my grandchildren per capita, the lawful issue of my said sons and daughters, Allen C., James MOD.,
Effie, Eliza Ann and Mary, for them and their heirs forever, to
have and to hold, or to sell and dispose of the same at their will
and pleasure; and in like manner all the stocks belonging to
my.said estate, whether invested before or after my death,
shall at the same time be equally divided among my said grandchildren, share and share alike, per capita; but it is to be
understood to be my will and direction that if any grandchild
aforesaid shall have died before said final division is made,
leaving a child or children lawfully begotten, such child
or children shall take and receive per .stirpes (to be equally divided between them) the share of my said estate, both real
and personal, which the parent of such deceased child or children would have been entitled to have and receive if living at the
time of such final distribution." The word "deceased," near
the end of this passage, was evidently intended to be prefixed
to the word "'parent," instead of to the words "child or children," so as to read "deceased parent of such child or children."
By the eighteenth clause, he directs that "in such final distribution of my lands" the executors fpr the time being shall
make *deedsof partition "to and in the names of those who may
be thus entitled thereto;" and "to enable my executors the
more effectually to execute the powers and duties by this will
devolved upon thei- and to protect my said children and
grandchildren against fraud and imposition," he devises the
lands to his executors and their successors, "and to their heirs,
in trust for the uses and purposes and objects expressed in this
my will, and the performance of which is herein above directed
and prescribed, to have pnd to hold the title thereof till such'
final divisioip, or partition thereof, and no longer." By the
twenty-fourth clause, he appoints three executors, and directs
and requests that if either of them shall die, resign, or refuse to
act, the court having probate jurisdiction for the county of

McARTHUR v. SCOTT.
Opinion of the Court

Ross shall appoint a new one instead, to act as an executor with
the others, so that there shall always be three executors.
The devise in the eighteenth clause of the title in the lands
to the executors and their successors, and their heirs, in trust
for the uses and purposes expressed in the will, to have and to
hold until the final division or partition, clearly gave them an
estate in fee, to last until that time. Doe v. Edlin, 4 Ad. &
El. 582; Yaden v. Taylor, 45 Law Journal (N. S.) Oh. 569
And there can be no doubt that as contended by the learnedcounsel for the defendants, the powers conferred and the trusts
imposed upon the executors were annexed to their office of executors, and did not make them trustees in another and different capacity. Colt v. Colt, 111 1T. S. 566, 581 ; Teadwell v.
Cordie, 5 Gray, 341, 358; Gandolfo v. Walker, 15 Ohio St. 251.
The equitable estate created by the gift in the sixteenth clause
of the income to the children and grandchildren, being an estate
which must endure for the lives of the children; and might endure throughout the lives of the grandchildren, though subject
to be sooner determined in the contingency of the coming of
age of the youngest grandchild, was technically an estate for
life. 2 Bl. Com. 121.
The nature of the equitable estate in remainder created by
the seventeenth clause demands more consideration.
The counsel for some of the defendants contended that it
was contingent upon the arrival of the youngest grandchild at
twenty-one years of age. In that view, the whole estate in
remainder, being dependent upon the termination of the particular estate for life, and vestingat that. time and not before,
would be in legal effect an equitable contingent remainder to
the grandchildren then living, and the issue then living of
grandchildren theretofore deceased, as one class.
In behalf of other defendants it was contended that the remainder in fee expectant upon the estate for life vested immediately in the grandchildren living at the death of the testator,
opened to'let in afterborn grandchildren, and vested in them
successively at birth, and would be divested as to the shares of
those grandchildren only who sh6uld die, leaving children, before the determination of the life estate, by force of the direc-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

tion that such children should take those shares. In this view,
all the grandchildren took a vested remainder in fee; and the
gift over to the children of any deceased grandchild, inasmuch
as it did not depend upon any precedent particular estate, but
was by way of substitution for the devise in fee to that grandchild, was an executory devise.
For many reasons, not the least of which are that testators
usually have in mind the actual enjoyment rather than the
technical ownership of their property, and that sound policy as
well as practical convenience requires that titles should be vested
at the earliest period, it has long been a settled rule of construction in the courts of England and America that estates,
legal or equitable, given by will, should always be regarded as
vesting immediately, unless the testator has by very clear words
manifested an intention that they should be contingent upon a
future event.
In the will before us, the testator directs the income to be
divided annually, in specified and changing proportions, among
his five children living at his death and their children, until the
youngest grandchild comes of age. He gives no part of the
income to children of grandchildren. He gives the fee, when
the youngest grandchild comes of age, to the grandchildren
and the children of deceased grandchildren. His general-intent clearly is to give the income of the estate to the children
and grandchildren so long as any grandchild is under age, and
the principal to the issue of the five children, whether such issue
are his grandchildren or his great-grandchildren.
If all the children and grandchildren should die before any
grandchild should come of age, the distribution of the income
would necessarily cease. In that event, if any of the grandchildren dying under age should leave children, the effect of
holding the remainder to be contingent upon the coming of
age of the youngest grandchild would, as that contingency had
never happened, cut off the great-grandchildren from any share
in the estate, in direct cbntravention of the general intent of
the testator. The more reasonable inference is, that upon the
determination of the life estate by the death of all children and
grandchildren, for whose benefit it was created, the great-

McARTHUR v. SCOTT.
Opinion of the Court.

grandchildren would be immediately entitled to the remainder.
Ca8tle v. Eate2 7 Beav. 296; Afansfield v. Dugard, Gilb. Eq.
,36; S. C. 1 Eq. Cas. Ab. 195, pl. 4. Upon that construction,
the contingency contemplated must necessarily happen at some
time, either by the arrival of the youngest grandchild at
twenty-one years of age, or by the death of all the grandchildren under age; and the case would come within the settled
rule that "where a remainder is so limited as to take effect in
possession, if ever, immediately upon the determination of a
particular estate, which estate is t 9 determine by an event
which must unavoidably happen by the effiux of time, the remainder vests in interest as soon as the remainderman is in ese
and ascertained; provided nothing but his own death before
the determination of the particular estate will prevent such
remainder from vesting in possession."
Doe v. Considine, 6
Wall. 458,476 ; _Moore v. Lyon8, 25 Wend. 119, 144; Blanchard
v. Blanchard,1 Allen, 223, 227.
The terms in which the testator has expressed his intention
likewise point to a vesting of the remainder in all his grandchildren.
The only gift of real estate in remainder to grandchildren is
contained in the opening words of the eighteenth clause, by
which the testator directs that "after the decease of all my
children now living, and when and as soon as the youngest
grandchild shall arrive at the age of twenty-one years," the
lands "shall be inherited and equally divided between my
grandchildren per capita, the lawful issue of my said sons and
daughters," in fee.
This gift is not to such grandchildren only as shall be living
at the expiration of the particular estate; but it is to "my
grandchildren per capita, the-lawful issue of my said sons and
daughters," words of description appropriate to designate all
such grandchildren.
At the expiration of the particular estate, the lands are to be
"inherited and equally divided" among the grandchildren, and
"in like manner" the stocks are to" be "equally divided"
among them. The real estate and the personal property are
clearly to go to the same persons and at the same time.

880

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court

The word "inherited " (which is applied to the real estate
only) implies taking immediately froim the testator upon his
death, as heirs take immediately from their ancestor upon his
*death. Devises or bequests in remainder, by the use of similar
words, though preceded, as in this case, by the word "then,"
have been often held to be vested from the death of the
testator. -Bullock v. Downes, 9 H. L. Ca'. 1; .Hortimorev.
Iortimore, 4 App. Cas. 448; Parkerv. Converse, 5 Gray, 336;
Dove v. Torr, 128 Mass. 38. The case of Twrndike v. Loring,
15 Gray, 391, cited for the defendants, is clearly distinguished
by the fact that there the bequest of the principal'at the expiration of fifty years was confined to "those who would then
be my lawful heirs and entitled to my estate if I had then died
intestate."
The words "and equally divided per capita," while they
qualify the effect of the word "inherited" so far as to prevent
a taking by the grandchildren per 8t1ir)e8 as under the statute
of descents, also plainly indicate a vested remainder. Words
directing land to be conveyed to or divided among remaindermen after the termination of a 'particular estate are always
presumed, unless clearly controlled by other provisions of the
will, to relate to the beginning of enjoyment by the remaindermen, and not to the vesting of the title in them. For instance,
under a devise of an estate, legal or equitable, to the testator's
children for life, and to be divided upon or after their, death
among his grandchildren in fee, the grandchildren living at the
death of the testator take a vested remainder at once, subject
to open and let in afterborn grandchildren; although the
number of grandchildren who will take, and consequently the
proportional share of each, cannot of course be ascertained
until the determination of the particular estate by the death of
their pareuts. Doe v. Considine,6 Wall. 458 ; Cropley v. Cooper,
19 Wall. 167; Dingley v. Dingley, 5 Mass. 535; Doe v. Provoost,
4 Johns. 61; Lintom v. Laycock, 33 Ohio St. 128; Doe v.
Perry, 3 T. R. 484; .Randoll v. Doe, 5 Dow, 202. So a
direction that personal property shall be divided at the expiration of an estate for life creates a vested interest. Shattuck
v. Stedman, 2 Pick. 468; HraZlifax v. Wilson, 16 Yes. 168; _In

McARTHUR v. SCOTT.
Opinion of the Court.

re Bennett'8 Tr t, 3 K. & J. 280; Strother v. Dutton, 1 DeG.
& Jon. 675.
The remainder, being vested according to the legal meaning
of the words of gift, is not to be held contingent by virtue of
subsequent provisions of the will, unless those provisions necessarily require it. The subsequent provisions of this will had
other objects.
The direction that if any grandchild shall have died before
the final division, leaving children, they shall take and receive
.per8tirpe the share of the estate, both real and personal,
which their parent would have been entitled to have and receive if then living, was evidently intended merely to provide
for children of a deceased grandchild, and not to define the
nature, as vested or contingent, of the previous general gift to
the grandchildren; and its only effect upon that gift is to
divest the share of any grandchild deceased leaving issue, and
to vest that share in such issue. Smithers v. TFillocek, 9 Ves.
233; Goodier v. ohnson, 18 Ch. D. 441; Darling v. Blanchard, 109 Mass. 176; 1 Jarman on Wills (4th ed.) 870.
The addition, in the eighteenth clause of the .will, of the provisions that any assignment, mortgage or pledge by any grandchild of his share shall be void, and that the executors, in the
final partition and distribution, shall convey and pay to the persons entitled under the will, rather tends to show that the testator considered the estate to be vested, and to be in danger of
being alienated but for these provisions; and, whatever their
legal effect may be, they cannot be construed as making a
remainder contingent, which the terms of the previous gift,
and the general intent of the testator, as appearing from the
whole will, require to be vested. Hall v. Tufts, I8 Pick. 455.
For these reasons, we are of opinion that the will purports
to devise to all the grandchildren _per capita, children of the
five surviving children of the testator, a vested remainder in
fee; and to the children per 8ti pes of any grandchildren deceased before the arrival of the youngest grandchild at twentyone years of age, a similar estate in fee by way executory
devise.
II. To come within the rule of the common law against per-

382

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

petuities, the estate, legal or equitable, granted or devised, must
be one which, according to the terms of the grant or devise, is
to vest upon the happening of a contingency which may by
possibility not take place within a life or lives in being (treating a child in its mother's womb as in being) and twenty-one
years afterwards.
In the case at bar, as the youngest granclcmla musu De m
being in the lifetime of his parent, and that parent was born in
the. testator's lifetime, the devise to the grandchildren, and even
the devise over, upon the arrival of the youngest grandchild at
twenty-one years of age, to the children of any grandchild
deceased before that time, must necessarily take effect, as to
every devisee, within a life or lives in being and twenty-one
years afterwards, and therefore do not violate the yule of the
conmon law; and it is unnecessary to consider whether that
rule is in force in"Ohio.
The statute of Ohio of December 17, 1811, in force at the
making of this will and at the testator's death, imposed different
restrictions upon grants .and devises of real estate, by enacting
that "no estate in fee simple, fee tail, or any lesser estate, in
lands or tenements lying within this State, shall be given or
granted by deed or will to any person or persons, but such as
are in being, or to the immediate issue or descendants of such
as-are in being, at the time of making such deed or will." 2
Chase's Statutes, 762.
It was assumed at the argument, and can hardly be doubted,
that in'this statute the words "the time of making such deed
or will," which, as applied to a deed, designate the time both
of its execution and of its taking effect, denote, as applied to a
will, the time when it takes effect by the death of the testator,
and not the date of its formal execution. By the law of England, the question of remoteness depends upon the state of
facts at the time of the testator's death, though differing from
that existing at the date of the will. Williams v. Teale, 6
Hare, 239, 251; Cattlin v. Brown, 11 Hare, 372, 382; Lewis
on Perpetuities, Supplt. 53-60, 64; 1 Jarman on Wills, 254.
Under the common-law rule against perpetuities, a devise to
a class, some members of which may possibly not take within the

McARTHUR v. SCOTT.
Opinion of the Court.
prescribed period, is wholly void. leake v. Robinson, 2 Meriv.
363; Peark8 v. .Moseley, 5 App. Cas. 114. But that is because,
as observed by Sir William Grant, "it is the period of vesting,
and not the description of the legatees, that produces the incapacity," and the devise is not "to some individuals who are,
and to some who are not, capable of taking." 2 Meriv. 388,
390. The rule of the common law, by which an estate devised
must at all events vest within a life or lives in being and
twenty-one years afterwards, has reference to time and not to
persons. Even the "life or lives in being" have no reference
to the persons who are to take, for the testator is allowed to
select, as the measure of time, the lives of any persons now in
existence; and the "twenty-one years afterwards" are not
regulated by the birth or the coming of age of any person, for
they begin, not with a birth, but with a death, and are twentyone years in gross, without regard to the life, or to the coming
of age, of any person soever. Cadell v. Palmer, 1 01. & Fin.
372; S. 0. 7 Bligh N. IR. 202.
It is doubtful, to say the least, whether the like effect can
be attributed to the statute of Ohio, which has no reference
to time, and only avoids devises to persons who are not either
in being theinselves, or the immediate issue or immediate descendants of persons in being, at the time of the making of the
will. The devise of their parent's share to the children of any
grandchild deceased before the time of division would seem to
be valid as to those great-grandchildren whose parent, a grandchild of the testator, was living at the time of his death, because
they would be "immediate issue" of a person in being at that
time; and valid also to any great-grandchildren, whose parent,
though born after the testator's death, had died before their
grandparent, a child of the testator, because they would be, if
not "immediate issue," certainly "immediate descendants," of
that child, who was in being at that time; and invalid as to
those great-grandchildren only, whose parent (as in the case of
Mrs. Madeira, daughter of the testator's child Mary Trimble),
born since' the testator's death, died after their grandparent,
and who, therefore, by, reason of 'the interposition of the life of
their parent, were neither "immediate issue" nor "immediate

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Qinion of the Court.

descendants" of a person in being when the testator died. See
Sevenson v. Evans, 10 Ohio St. 307; Turley v. Turkly, 11
Ohio St. 173.
But, however that may be,the conclusion, already announced,
that the estate in remainder devised by Duncan McArthur was
vested in all his grandchildren _er capita, with an executory
devise over of the shares of those only who should die, leaving
issue, before the final division, removes all difficulty in the application of the statute to the shares devised to the plaintiffs,
grandchildren of the testator; for the devise to grandchildren,
immediate issue of persons in being at the making of the will,
was clearly not prohibited by the statute; and, even under the
English rule, the executory devise over of the shares of deceased grandchildren to their children, if void for remoteness,
would not defeat the previous valid devise of a vested remainder to the grandchildren, nor alter the share which each living
grandchild would take. Catlin v. Brown, 11 Hare, 372;
Lord Selborne, in Pecrks v. MHoselay, 719, 724, 725; Goodier
v. Johnson, 18 Oh. D. 441.
The necessary conclusion is that these plaintiffs, being grandchildren of the testator, took equitable vested remainders under
his will. But until the determination of the particular estate
by the death of all the testator's children and the arrival at the
age of twenty-one years of the youngest grandchild who
reached that age, the legal estate in fee being in the executors,
the grandchildren owning the equitable estate in remainder
had no right to a conveyance of the legal title. The present
bill, filed little more than a year after one of the plaintiffs,
who was the youngest grandchild of the testator who lived to
the age of twenty-one years, arrived at that age, must therefore
be maintained, unless the title of the plaintiffs under the will
of their grandfather has been defeated by the decree rendered
in 1839, setting aside the will.
III. The proceedings relating to the will of Duncan McArthur were had under the statute of Ohio of February 18, 1831,
the material provisions of which are as follows:
By section 7, a will bequeathing or devising any personal
property or real estate may be brought by the executors, or by

McARTHUR v. SCOTT.

385

Opinion of the Court.
any person interested therein, before the Court of Common
Pleas, and the testimony of the, attesting witnesses reduced to
writing, and if it shall thereupon appear that the will was duly
executed, and that the testator was of full age and of sound mind
and memory, aid not under any restraint, the court shall order
the will, together with the proof so taken, to be recorded. By
section 13, the will is to be recorded in every county in which
there is any land devised. By, secti6n 16, if the executor
named in any will dies or refuses to act, or if no executor is
named therein, the court may receive the probate of the will
and grant letters of administration with the will annexed.
The statute also contains the following sections:
"Sxa. 20. If any person interested shall, within two years
after probate had. appear, and by bill in chancery contest the
validity of the will, an issue shall" be made up, whether the
writing produced be the last will of the testator or testatrix or
not; which shall be tried, by a jury, whose verdict shall be
final between the parties, saving to the court the power of
granting a new trial, as in other cases; but if no person appear
in that time, the probate shall be forever binding; saving also
to infants, married women, and persons absent from the State,
or of insane mind or in captivity, the like period after the removing of their respective disabilities."
"S=or. 22. Appeals may be had from the decision of the
Court of Common Pleas to the Supreme Court, when any will
or other matter relating thereto shall have been contested."
3 Chase's Statutes, 1786-1788.
The forms of procedure, thus prescribed with regard to the
original probate of a will and the subsequent setting aside of
the probate, are in some respects peculiar, and their effect has
been fully defined by decisions of the Supreme Court of Ohio.
The original probate on the testimony of the attesting witnesses, under section 7,is analogous to the probate in England
in common form.
The subsequent proceeding by bill in
equity, under section 20, to contest the validity of the will, is
analogous to the probate in solemn form by the executor upon
being cited in by the next of kin ; and the jurisdiction exercised
by the court and jury is virtually that of a court of probate.
VOL. 0=-25

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

Both stages of the proceedings extend to the real estate as well
as to the personal property, differing in this respect from the
former English probates. Upon the subsequent contest, as
upon the original probate, the only issue is will or no will,
and the court has not the powers of a court of construction,
and has no authority to pass upon the question whether the
devises in the will are void for remoteness. Afear8 v. MAearq,
15 Ohio St. 90.
The form of issue being prescribed by the statute, no answer
is necessary, and if one is filed, it cannot be read at the trial of
the issue. Green v. Green, 5.Ohio, 278. The position of the
parties on the record, as plaintiffs or defendants, is immaterial;
all are actors; and if some of the heirs are made plaintiffs and
some defendants, all have an equal right to contest the will.
Runyan v.'Price,15 Ohio St. 1, 6; Bradford v. Andrew8, 20
Ohio St. 208, 220.
The bill in equity is so far in the nature of an appeal from
the original probate, that the same issue is to be tried anew.
Bfaynes v. Hfaynes, 33 Ohio St. 598, 618. But, strictly speaking, it is an original proceeding on the chancery side of the
Court of Common Pleas, and does not, until final decree, vacate
or affect the probate. "The statutory contest of a will lacks
the essential elements of an appeal, It has not the same parties as in the court below. In the latter, in fact, it is purely
exparte, while in the Common Pleas it is interpartes." Bradford v. Andrews, 20 Ohio St. 222. The original probate cannot be impeached, except in the form of proceeding given by
the statute. Swazey v. Blackman, 8 Ohio, 5, 19; Bailey v.
Bailey, 8 Ohio, 239, 246; Mosier v. Harmon, 29 Ohio St. 220.
Even while such a proceeding is pending, and until set aside by
the final decree therein, the probate is conclusive evidence of
the validity of the will, as against all persons, in a collateral
suit. Brown v. Burdick, 25 Ohio St. 260.
In a proceeding under the statute to contest the validity of
a will, it is error to render final judgment upon a demurrer to
the answer; because theprovision of the statute, requiring an
issue to be made up and tried by a jury, is imperative in its
terms, and "was deliberately enacted with a view to prevent

McARTHUR v. SCOTT.
Opinion of the Court.

a disposition of cases for the contest of wills upon the mere
consent or acquiescence of parties in any form."
Walker v.
Walker, 14 Ohio St. 157, 176.
If a bill to contest the validity of a will is seasonably filed
by an infant heir who is within the saving clause of the statute,
and there is no defect of parties defendant, and the instrument
is found to be no will, the proper decree is to annul the whole
order of probate. .Aeese v. Kelfe, 10 Ohio, 362. But persons
claiming under the will admitted to probate, who are not made
defendants to the bill to set it aside, are not bound, or their
rights affected, by the decree upon that bill; and may treat it
as a nullity, and maintain actions, against any one claiming
under it, for lands devised to them by the will as originally
admitted to probate. Holt v. lamb, 17 Ohio St. 374.
The case of Holt v. Lamb, just referred to, decided in 186"7,
has so important a bearing on the case at bar that it will be
appropriate to state it with some fulness. Sarah Stevenson
devised land to her brother George for life, and after his death
to be sold and divided between his four daughters, and appointed him her executor. Upon a bill in chancery filed under
the statute against him and another brother by the other
brothers and sisters and heirs at law of the testatrix (to which
those daughters, the devisees in remainder, were not made
parties), alleging'that the will was not duly executed and that
the testatrix was of unsound mind, and an answer filed by him
denying these allegations, the court, in 1826, without framing
or submitting any issue to a jury, entered a decree setting aside
the will. In 1827, upon a petition for partition between the
brothers and sisters of the testatrix, the land was ordered to be
sold, and was sold and conveyed to a stranger, who afterwards
sold and conveyed it to another person. George died in 1863,
and his four daughters with their husbands brought an action
against the last purchaser and the heirs at law of the testatrix
to recover the land.
That case was elaborately and learnedly argued, and the defence was rested on similar grounds to those taken in the case
at bar. It was contended that the suit to contest the validity
of the will was a proceeding in rem; that the plaintiffs were

OCTOBEIR TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

not necessary parties to it; that they were parties by representation of George Stevenson, the executor, who appeared
and filed an answer in the cause, and defended their interests;.
that if they should have been made parties, the omission to
make them parties did not render the decree void against them,
and could be availed of only by applying to the court in which
that cause was pending to be made parties, or by proceedings
in that court to impeach the decree for irregularity; and that
they might not have been within the jurisdiction of the court
and subject to its process, and after so great a ]apse of time it
must be presumed that the court for good reasons declined to
order them to be brought in. 17 Ohio St. 381, 382.
But the Supreme Court of Ohio, after observing that it had
been expressly decided in Walker v. Walker, above cited, that
the omission of a jury rendered the decree at least voidable on
appeal, and that it was unnecessary to determine whether that
omission rendered the decree absolutely void, gave judgment
in favor of the plaintiffs, upon the ground that, not having
been made parties to the bill to set aside the will, their rights
under the will as originally admitted to probate were not
affected by the decree, and might be asserted in this action.
Judge Welch, deliverin& the opinion of the whole court, said:
"But whatever effect may be given to the decree, or to the
verdict of a jury in such case, we have no hesitation in saying,
that that effect must be confined to 'the. parties' in the cause.
The words I'ke parties,' in the section quoted, can have no
other legitimate meaning than that of parties to the proceeding.
This is their primary legal meaning, and that such is their import here is quite obvious, from their being used in connection
with the subject of a 'bill in chancery,' which, of itself, implies
proper parties. That meaning is made still more obvious from
the fact, that to give the words any other meaning would do
injustice, by depriving persons in interest of a day in court.
The meaning cannot be partie8 in, inftreet, because such had
been spoken of before as Ipeisons interested.' And in the subsequent clause, .where the effect of the probate is declared, it is
said it ' shall be .forever binding,' without naming any parties
upon whom it is to be so binding. If the same meaning was

?XfcARTHUR v. SCOTT.
Opinion of the Court.

intended in both places, why were different forms of expression
employed? Why use the words ' between the parties ' in the
one case, and omit them in the other? It seems to us quite
plain that it was -because the intention was to express, what, in
fact, ought to be implied in all proceedings in I chancery,' that
none but 'the parties' to the proceeding were to be bound
thereby." "The decree setting aside the will, if binding at all,
was binding only 'between, the parties;' and it binds those
parties by way of estcyyel. Although the will may be, infaa4
a lawful, valid will, the parties to the decree axe estopped by
it from aemerting or proving it to be such will. But the plaintiffs axe not so estopped. As to them, it is a valid and subsisting will. They are still estopped by the probate from
denying that it is such will. It is to them as though the
chancery case had never been commenced. Their rights stand
wholly unaffected by the proceeding." 17 Ohio St. 385-387.
In Bradford v. Andrews, above referred to, decided in 1870,
it was held that where a proceeding to contest the validity of
a will was commenced, within the statutory period of limitation, by some of the heirs only, the right of action was saved
to other heirs who were ultimately made parties, and who by
their answers joined in the prayer to set aside the will, although
they were not brought into the case until after the period of
limitation had expired. In the opinion of thA 'court, also delivered by Judge Welch, it was said: "If any person interested
appears, and in good faith files his petition for a contest, the
statute entitles him to a trial and the verdict of a jury, touching the validity of the will; and that verdict will be binding
upon all parties who may be before the court as such at the
time of its rendition. The interest of the parties is joint and
inseparable. Substantially this is a proceeding in rem, and the
court cannot take jurisdiction of the subject matter by fractions. The will is indivisible, and the verdict of the jury either
establishes it as a whole, or whblly sets it aside. To save the
right of action, therefore, to one is necessarily to save it to all.
The case belongs to that class of actions where the law is compelled either to hold the rights of all parties in interest to be
saved, or all to be barred."

uOTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

It is contended by the defendants in the present-6ase that
this decision is inconsistent with that in Holt v. Lamb. But
we perceive, no inconsistency. Apart from the improbability
that the court, speaking by the same judge as in Holt v.
Zamb, only three years before, intended to overrule or to cast
a doubt upon that case without mentioning it, the observation in the first sentence of the statement relied on, that the
"verdict will be binding upon all parties who may be before
the court as such at the time of its rendition," as well as the
further explicit affirmation, already quoted, that the proceeding
to set aside the will "is inter Partes," clearly shows that the
court had no thought of holding that any one, claiming under
the will once adujitted to probate, was bound by the decree
setting it aside, who had not been made a party to the suit
in which it was rendered. 20 Ohio St. 219, 222.
In Reformed Presbyterian Jhurck v. TVMelson, 35 Ohio St.
638, decided in 1880, in a proceeding by heirs at law, under
the statute, to contest the validity of a will, the executors and
all the devisees and legatees were made defendants, except one
person to whom the will gave a silver watch; and it was held
that the omission to make this legatee a party, before trying
the issue and rendering the decree setting aside the will, was
error, for which those who had been made defendants and
taken part in the trial might obtain a reversal of the decree,
although the objection was not taken below. The court said:
"It is the duty of the plaintiff, instituting a suit to settle a controversy, to see that the necessary parties are brought before
the court." 'And after referring, without intimating any doubt
of the correctness of the decision therein, to Holt v. Lamb, as
a case in which no question arose as to the decree being reversible in error, but the effect of the decree was drawn in question in a collateral suit, and in which it was held that the
parties to the suit in which the decree was rendered were
bound by the decree, and it was not void as to them, but that
as to all other persons in interest the decree was void; the
court observed that "as it was held to be void as to some of
the persons in interest and binding as to others, in respect to
the same property, it would seem to be necessarily erroneous

McARTHUR v. SCOTT.
Opinion of the Court.

as to the parties to the suit;" and referred to the decision of
the Court of Appeals of Kentucky in Singleton v. Singleton, 8
B. Monroe, 340, 356, as taking a different view of'the effect of
such a decree, and holding that the verdict must be binding
upon all interested in the will, or not binding upon any, and
yet recognizing the .absence of a necessary party to the decree to be ground for its reversal on error.

35 Ohio St. 642-

644.
The decision of the Supreme Court of Ohio in Holt v. Iamh,
eighteen years ago, recognized by the same court thirteen years
afterwards in Reformed Ppesbyterian (iurok v. 3T elson, as establishing. that under the statute of Ohio a decree setting aside
a will was void as against all persons in interest who were not
parties to the suit in which it was rendered, and never impugned or doubted in that State, must, upon a question of the
construction of a statute of Ohio, the effect of the will of a citizen of Ohio admitted to probate in Ohio, and the title of land
in that State, be accepted by this court as conclusive evidence
of the law of Ohio, even if a different construction has been
given to similar statutes by the courts of other States. AfcKeen
v. Delancy, 5 Craunch, 22; Polk v. W'endall, 9 Cranch, 87;
Thatcher v. Powell, 6 Wheat. 119; _Elmendorf v. Taylor, 10
Wheat. 152; Suydam v. Williamson, 24 How. 427; Christy v.
Pridgeon, 4 Wall. 196; VTilliams v. JHirtland,13 Wall. 306.
It is therefore unimportant to consider how far the terms of
the statutes of other States, construed by the courts of those
States in the cases cited by the defendants, corresponded to
*thoseof the statute of Ohio.
The case of Fraser v. Jennison, 106 U. S.191, arose under a
wholly different statute of the State of Michigan, providing for
an ordinary appeal, which vacated the original probate; and
the point decided by this court, in accordance with decisions of
the Supreme Court.of Michigan, was that on such an appeal,
although taken by the heirs at law separately, the validity of
the will was a single issue, as regarded all the parties who appeared and contested it.
The general rule in equity, in accordance with the fundamental principles of justice, is that all persons interested in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

object of a suit, and whose rights will be directly affected by
the decree, must be made parties to the suit. Exceptions to
this rule have been admitted, from considerations of necessity
or of paramount convenience, when some of the persons interested are out of the jurisdiction, or not in being, or when the
persons interested are too numerous to be all brought in. But
in every case there must be such parties before the court as to
insure a fair trial of the issue in behalf of all.
The plaintiffs in the present case, being as yet unborn,
could not, of course, have been made actual parties to the suit
in which the decree setting aside the will of their grandfather
was rendered; and the question remaining to be considered is,
whether there was such a virtual representation of .their interests, that they are bound by the decree. This question cannot
be satisfactorily or intelligibly treated without first recapitulating the facts.
The will was originally admitted to probate on the testimony
of the attesting witnesses; letters testamentary were issued to
the two surviving executors of the three named in the will, and to
Mrs. Coons, a daughter of the testator, appointed by the Court
of Probate, pursuant to the provisions of the will, in the place
of the one who died before the testator; and the three executors so appointed were qualified and gave'bond, and took upon
themselves the executorship.
The bill in equity to contest the validity of the will was filed
by Allen C. McArthur, one of the five surviving children and
heirs at law of the testator, and afterwards the father of these
plaintiffs. The defendants in that bill were the testator's four
other surviving children and heirs at law, namely, James McD.
McArthur, Mrs. Coons, Mrs. Anderson and Mrs. Trimble, and
the husbands of Mrs. Anderson and Mrs. Trimble; all the children who had then been born of those four children of the testator, and who were all then under age, namely, three children
of James McD. McArthur, one child of Mrs. Coons, one child
of Mrs. Anderson, and one child, born pending the suit, of
Mrs. Trimble; the son, daughter, and son-in-law of Mrs. Kercheval, a deceased daughter of the testator; the husband and
three sons of Mrs. Bourne, another deceased daughter of the

McARTHUR v. SCOTT.
Opinion of the Court.

testator; and Samson Mason and Samuel F. Vinton, as devisees
in trust of lands not now in question.
The joinder, as defendants in that suit, of Mrs. Kerchevalยง
and Mrs. Bourne's children, and of Mason and Vinton, trustees,
is unimportant, and may be laid out of consideration; because
'the will gave to those children no estate in lands, in fee or for
life, legal or equitable; and Mason and Vinton refused to accept their trust, and by answer formally disclaimed all interest
in the lands devised to them.
No executor and general trustee under the will was made a
defendant in the capacity of executor and trustee. The three
executors who had previously qualified and acted had resigned,
and their. resignations had been accepted by the Court of
Probate; two of them a few days before the bill was filed, and
the third while it was pending; and no successor of either, and
no administrator with the will annexed, was appointed.
The only parties to that suit, then, so far a is material to the
question before us, were a son and heir at law of the testator, as
complainant, and the other four children and heirs at law, and
-the grandchildren then in being, each a minor child of one of
those four children, as defendants. The bill alleged that these
were the only persons specified in the will or having an interest
in it, and were the only heirs and personal representatives of
the testator. That all the heirs at law were before the court
is true, for the five children (with the Kercheval and Bourne
grandchildren) were the heirs at law. But, according to the
will, the children, as well as the grandchildreh, took merely
equitable interests. To none of them was any legal title devised. The five present plaintiffs, children of the complainant
in that suit, as well as the children afterwards born of the
testator's other surviving children, all grandchildren of the
testator, and entitled under the will to share with his other
grandchildren, were not parties, and, being yet unborn, could
not be personally made parties. And although the testator,
to secure the interests of all his children and grandchildren,
under the will, and, as he declared, to .prevent them from
being defrauded or imposed -ugpon, had devised the legal title
in fee to his executors and their successors, and committed

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

to them the execution of the trusts which he created, yet no
personal representative of the testator, no executor or trustee
appointed under the will, and no administrator with the will
annexed, was a party to the proceeding at the time of the trial
of the issue and the rendering of the final decree setting aside
the will and annulling the probate.
The only parties to that proceeding, who were of age and
capable of representing themselves, were the heirs at law, interested to set aside the will, and one of whom, afterwards
father of the present plaintiffs, filed the bill for that purpose.
The guardian ad litem, appointed to represent the opposing interest, under the will, of each minor giandchild then in being,
was either its parent, interested as an heir-at law, and as a party
to the suit in his own right, to defeat the will, or was the husband of such a parent and heir at law. Each of the persons so
appointed confessed in the answer filed in his own behalf all
the allegations of the bill, and in his answer as guardian neither
admitted nor denied those allegations. All the appointments
of the guardians ad Utem were made, all the answers were filed,
and the issue to the jury was ordered, in that suit, and the resignation of the sole remaining executrix (who was also one of
the'heirs at law and guardians ad litem) was tendered and accepted .in the court of probate, on one andthe same day, within
a week before the verdict and final decree.
The charges, made in the present bill, of actual fraud and
'conspiracy in procuring that decree, having been denied in the
answers, and the plaintiffs, by setting down the case for hearing upon bill and answers, having admitted the truth of all
statements of fact in the answers, must be taken to be disprov'ed. Those who took part in obtaining that decree may
have thought that they were doing the best thing for all persons interested in the estate. But it is impossible to read the
record of that base without being satisfied that the verdict and
decree were entered without any real contest, and that the heirs at
law, whose interest it was to set aside the will, in fact controlled
both sides u the controversy: the attack upon the will, as heirs
and a parties in their own right; the defence of the will, as
guardians ad litem of the only devisees brought before the court.

McARTHUR v. SCOTT.
Opinion of the Court.

The appointment of persons, having adverse interests, to be
guardians ad litem of the grandchildren then living and made
parties defendant, may, so far as those parties were concerned,
have been a mere irregularity in the mode of proceeding, for
which they could not afterwards collaterally impeach the decree. Colt v. Colt, 111 U. S. 566. But neither the living
grandchildren, nor the guardians appointed to represent them,
could represent the estate devised by the testator to his executors in trust for unborn grandchildren and great-grandchildren.
In suits affecting the rights of residuary legatees or of next
of kin, the general rule is that "allthe members of the class must
be made parties. Davoue v. -Fanning,4 Johns. Ch. 199; Dehart v. Dehart, 2 H. W. Green (N. J.) 471; Hawkins v. Hawkin8, 1 Hare, 543, 545 and note; Calvert on Parties (2d ed.),
49, 237. Where they are numerous, and only some of them,
together with the executor and trustee under the will, are made
parties, the court, upon being satisfied that it has a sufficient
number before it to secure a fair trial of the question at issue,
may hear the cause. Bradwin v. Harpur, Ambler, 374;
Harvey v. Harvey, 4 Beav. 215, and 5 Beav. 134. But it
would seem that the decree must be without prejudice to the
rights of those who are not made parties, and who do not come
in before the decree. Harvey v. Harvey, 5 Beav. 139; Willats
v. Bmu8by, 5 Beav. 193, 200; Powell v. J5ight, 7 Beav. 444,
450; Calvert on Parties, -72; Hallett v. Hallett, 2 Paige, 15;
Rule 48 in Equity, 1 How. lvi. And where a suit is brought
by or against a few individuals as representing a numerous
class, that fact must be alleged of record, so as to present to
the court the question whether sufficient parties are before it
to properly represent the rights of all. _,an chester v. :Thonq8on, 5 Madd. 4, 13; Calvert on Parties, 44, 169.
In the proceeding to contest the validity of Duncan McArthur's will, on the contrary, so far from the attention of the
court being called to any such question, it was positively
alleged in the bill, and'not contradicted in any of the answers,
that those named as parties in the bill were the only persons
specified in that will, and the only persons having an interest
in it. Under the Ohio statute .and decisions, the court had

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

nothing to do with the construction or the legal effect of the
provisions of the will, but had only to try the question of will
or no will as between the parties -before it, and with no effect
upon the rights f those not made patties. The rights of those
infant grandchildren who were made defendants, to show
cause against the decree, were saved by the express tefus of
the statute and of the decree itself until their coming of age and
for six -months 4fterwards; and no-provision was made for the
preservation of the ights of after-born grandchildren.
But the graver objection is that at the time of renderihg the
decree the court had before it no one representing the office of
the executors, or the trust estate devised to them.
A trustee who has large powers over the trust estate, and
important duties to perform with respect to it, is a necessary
party to a suit brought by a stranger to aefeat the trust, and
often sufficiently represents the beneficiaries. Calvert on
Parties, 273; .Kerr8.onv.Swart,93 U. S. 155, 160; Campbell
v. Watson, 8 Ohio, 498. Where such a trustee for a married
woman was not made a party, Mr. Justice Miler, delivering
the judgment of this court reversing the decree, said: " H ow
the decree can clear the property of this trust without having
the trustee before the court it is difficult to see. This was the
object of the suit; but how can it be mide effectual for that
purpose in the absence of the person in whom the title is
vested?" O'HIarav. .acConnl,,93 U. S.150, 154.
When a will has been once admitted to probate, the estate,
so long as the probate remains unrevoked, can only be administered by the executor or by an administrator with the will annexed. The executor is the principal and the necessary representative of the estate vested in him, and of all those interested
ii it; "the executor," said Lord Hardwicke, "in all cases sustaining the person of the testator, to defend the estate for him,
creditors and legatees." Peacock v. .onk, 1 Yes. Sen. 127,
131. By the settled doctrine of the English ecclesiastical courts,
in any proceeding to contest the probate or the rejection of a
will, dr to compel probate in solemn form, the executor is a
necessary party, and, unless fraud or collusion is suggested, the
only party to represent the will. The executor, in the words

McARTHUR v. SCOTT.
Opinion of the Court.

of Sir John -Kicholl, "prima facie is to be considered as pars
principdi or legitimu contradictor;" Wood v. XAedley, 1
Hagg. Eccl. 64:5, 668; and, as observed by Sir Herbert Jenner,
"represents and is the protector of the legatees. under the will,
being specially entrusted by the deceased with the care and
management of his property and to see his intentions carried
into effect." Hayle v. la8ted, 1 Curt. EceL 236, 240, 241.
When there has been a probate in common form and there is
no executor, the administrator with the will annexed is the
proper party to be cited to prove the will in solemn form or to
show cause why an intestacy should not be declared. Gacoyre
v. Chandler, 2 Cas. temp. Lee, 241.
By the devise in fee to these executors, their appointment by
the Court of Probate, and their acceptance of the trust, the
legal title in the real, estate under the will vested in them.
The subsequent acceptance by that court of their resignation
of the office of executors no doubt discharged them from the
performance of the duties of executors and trustees under the
will. But the legal title in the real estate, which had once
vested in them, could not be divested without a conveyance, or
a decree of a court of chancery, or an appointment by the Court
of Probate of new executors and trustees in accordance with
the will. At common law, a conveyance, sanctioned or ordered
by a court of competent jurisdiction, or at least a new appointment pursuant to the instrument by which the trust was created,
would be necessary to divest the title of each trustee; and no
statute or decision in Ohio, establishing a different rule in this
respect, has been brought to our notice. The three executors
and trustees who had once accepted and acted as such, therefore, still held the legal title. In re Van Wyco, 1 Barb. Oh.
565, 570; Drury v. Nztick, 10 Allen, 169, 183; Vooldridge v.
Planters' Bank,, 1 Sneed,.296; 2 Washburn on Real Property
(4th Pd.) 512, 513. And as holders of that title they were
necessary parties to the suit. Adam8 v. _Paynter, 1 Collyer,
530, 534.
But even if the mere legal title could be deemed, upon the
acceptance by the Court of Probate of the resignation of two
of the executors and trustees, to have vested in the remaining

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

one, Mrs. Coons, and upon the acceptance of her resignation to
have vested in the heirs at law, the more serious difficulty remains. The heirs did not succeed to the office of executors,
and neither Mrs. Coons after her resignation, nor all the heirs,
could represent the testator's will, or the trust created by it,
or the beneficiaries of that trust. The heirs were not alleged
in the bill to be trustees, were not made parties as trustees, did
not answer as trustees; but were actors in support of their
individual rights only, asserting, one of them by allegations in
his bill, and the others by confession in their answers of those
allegations, a title adverse to the will and to the trusts created
by it.
The resignation, of the persons who had been appointed executors and trustees did not dispense with the presence of
representatives of the testator and of the trust estate. It was
necessary that others should be appointed in their stead to represent the estate devised to the executors in trust for the
protection of the cestui ue trust designated in the will,
and especially the interests of those who might be born in
the future, and who could not be otherwise sufficiently represented.
No additional force is given to the decree, rendered without
having any such representatives before the court, by the
allegation in that bill that no persons could be found whom the
court was willing to appoint executors and who were able to
give the requisite bonds, or by the allegation in the answer of
Mrs. Coons that one reason for her resignation of the office of
executrix was the impossibility of procuring suitable associates.
Those were wholly irrelevant allegations, which the court, sitting in chancery to try the single issue of the validity'of the
will, had no authority to pass upon, or to assume to be true.
The power and-the duty, upon any vacancy in the office of executors ,or-ustees under a will, to appoint new executors or
trustees, or.administrators with the will annexed, was in the
court acting strictly as a court of probate. Statutes of Ohio
of March 12, 1831, ยง 22, and February 18, 1831, ยง 16, 25 ; 3
Chase's Statutes, 1779, 1787, 1788. The alleged impossibility
of finding proper persons to- accept the, office of executors

McARTHUR v. SCOTT.

399

Opinion of the Court.
affords no more excuse for holding a decree binding upon
persons not otherwise represented, than it would for disregarding a Nill which had been admitted to probate, and settling the
estate as if the deceased had died intestate.
Nor can we doubt that the court, in the exercise of the appropriate branch of its jurisdiction, might in its discretion have
granted administration limited to the single object of defending
the will and the probate against the bill in equity of the heirs.
Courts vested with the jurisdiction of granting letters testamentary and of administration have the inherent power of
granting a limited administration, whenever it is necessary for
the purposes of justice; as, for instance, durante minore mtate,
while the executor named in the will is under age; durante
absentia, when he is out of the jurisdiction and therefore has
not taken out letters testamentary; or ad litem, to defend a
suit in chancery while the probate of a will is under contest;
and the powers exercised by the English courts in this respect
appertain to the courts of like jurisdiction in this country, although not specified in the statutes under which they act. Davi8
v. Chanter,2 Phillips, 545, 550, 551 ; 1 Williams on Executors
(7th ed.) 479, 502, 523, 524; GriJflth v. Frazier,8 Cranch, 9,
26; Yfartin v. Dry Dock Co., 92 N. Y. 70; 3Ic3airy v. Bell,
6 Yerger, 302; Jordan v. Polk, 1 Sneed, 429, 434,
These defendants rely on Andrews v. Andrews, 7 Ohio St.
143, as showing that to a bill in equity by the heirs at law
under the Ohio statute to set aside a will which has been admitted to probate, the executors are not necessary parties.
But in that case, a will bequeathing the bulk of the testator's
property to certain charitable corporations having been set
aside upon a bill by the heirs against the executors and the
residuary legatees, the only point decided was that the executors were not bound to assume the burden of the defence, or
entitled to charge the expense thereof to the estate; and the
court, in delivering judgment, said that, in analogy to ordinary
cases in chancery, it had been the general, and perhaps uniform,
practice to make the executors, &swell as legatees and devisees,
parties defendant, and that, "granting the propriety, and even
the necessity, of the practice," it did not follow that the execu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

tor was therefore bound to take upon himself the burden of
the contest.- 7 Ohio St. 151. The court thus recognized, what
is indeed self-evident, that the question whether the executor is
bound to make an active defence at the expense of the estate
is wholly different from the question whether he must be made
a party, and so have an opportunity to defend the interests
which he represents. In later cases in that State, the practice
of making the executor a party has been followed, and it has
never been intimated that his presence could be dispensed with,
although he has been held not to be of himself a sufficient representative of the devisees and legatees to make the decree
binding on them. Hole v. Lamb, 17 Ohio St. 374, and Be.formed Presbyterian Church v. Selson, 35 Ohio St. 638,
already cited. But costs in probate cases generally rest in the
discretion of the court, and are often not allowed even to the prevailing party. Summerell v. Clements, 32 Law Journal (Prob.)
33 and note; ichols v. Binn8, 1 Sw. & Tr. 239 ; .XitekeZl v.
Gard, 3 Sw. & Tr. 275 ; Davies v. Gregory, L. R. 3 P. & D.
28 ; .fumper'8 Appeal, 13 W. & S. 441 ; COhica
v. .iner, 112
Mass. 269. In Andrews v. Andrews, no trust was created by
the will; but the bequest was outright to existing corporations,
themselves parties to the suit, and capable of representing their
own interests; and under such circumstances there would seem
to -havebeen no reason why the executor should have incurred
any expense in the matter. Dyce Sombre v. Troup, Deane, 22,
119, 120; S. C. on appeal, nom. Prinep v. Dyce Sombre, 10
Moore P. . 232, 301-305.
The cases in courts of general chancery jurisdiction, cited in
behalf of the defendants, are clearly distinguishable from the
case before us, and naturally range themselves in several
classes.
Some of them were of mere changes of investment, leaving
undiminished the interests of all parties in the property in its
new form. Such were Sokier v. Williams, 1 Curtis, 479; -Faulkner v. Davis, 18 Gratt. 651; and KnottM v. Stearn, 91 U. S.
638. To the same class belong suits for partition, which are
either for a division in severalty of lands before held in common, or else for a sale of the whole land, and a division or in-

McARTRUR v. SCOTT.
Opinion of the Court.

vestment of the proceeds for the benefit of those who, but for
the sale, would have had interests in the land. In the case of
a strict partition, by division of the land itself, it is sufficient
to make the present owner, or, in some cases, the tenant for
life of each share, a party, because the interest of those who
come after him is not otherwise affected than by being changed
from an estate in common to an estate in severalty. WWi v.
Slade, 6 Ves. 498; Gakell v. Ga87t-l, 6 Sim. 643; (lemen8 v.
Clemen8, 37 N. Y. 59 ; Calvert on Parties, 60, 259. In the case
of a partition by sale of the land, and a division or investment
of the proceeds according to the interests in the several shares,
the interests of alt persons in the proceeds correspond to their
respective interests in the land, and are secured by the decree
of sale. Mead v. Mitchell, 17N. Y. 210; B"anett v. Noxon,L.
R. 20 Eq. 182. But a decree for partition of either kind, which
cuts off remaindermen, not then in emse, from having, when
they come into being, any interest in either land or proceeds,
does not bind them. Monarque v. Aonargue, 80 N. Y. 320;
Downin v. Sp1recher, 35 Maryland, 474.
Another class of cases is that of creditors, who are entitled
to present payment of their debts, whoever may be the future
owner of the estate. For instance, in a bill to enforce a debt
charged upon real estate devised to one for life, with contingent remainder to his unborn son, the executor and th6 tpnant
for life are sufficient parties, because, as was said long ago by
Lord flardwicke, if there is no one in whom the estate of
inheritance is vested, "it is impossible to say the creditors are
to remain unpaid and the trust not to be executed until a son
is born. If there is no first son in being, the court must take
the facts as they stand." Finek v. Finch, 2 Ves. Sen. 491;
.Baylor v. Dejarnette, 13 Gratt. 152, 168. See also Goodchild
.v. Terrett, 5 Beav. 398.
In some other cases, when all the interests are legal and not
equitable, the owner of the first estate of freehold, representing
the whole estate, and identified in interest with all who come
after him, sufficiently represents those yet unborn. In the case
of an estate tail, for instance, Lord Redesdale held it to be
sufficient, in order to bind contingent remaindermen, to bring
To,. cxnlz--26

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.
before the court the first tenant in tail (although an infant, incapable at law of barring remaindermen), And if no tenant in
tail in being, the first person entitled to the inheritance, and if
no such person, then the tenant for life. But the reason assigned by that great master of equity pleading was, "that
where all the parties are brought before the court that can be
brought before it, and the court acts on the property according
to the rights that appear, without fraud, its decision must of
necessity be final and conclusive." Gifard v. Iort,1 Sch. &
Lef. 386, 408; Calvert on Parties, 55-60. The necessity of
the case being the only reason for this, it follows that where
the successive estates are equitable, and supported by a legal
estate devised in trust, the trustees also are necessary parties.
Hopkin v. Hopkins, West Ch. 606, 619; S. C. 1 Atk. 581,
590; Clolmondeley v. Clinton, 2 Jacob & Walker, 1, 133;
fullins v. Townsend, 5 Bligh N. R. 567, 591; S. . 2 Dow &
01. 430, 438 ; Ex parte Dering, 12 Sim. 400 ; Calvert on Parties, 253, 327.
So in the case of a bill in equity for the construction of a
will, the court, from necessity, in order to protect the trustee
and. to give proper instructiofis as to the execution of the trusts,
is sometimes obliged to settle the validity and effect of contingent'limitations even to persons not in being.. But, as was
said by Mr. Justice Grier in Cross v..De ialle,1 Wall. 1, 16,
"It is this necessity which compels the court to make such
cases exceptions to the general rule; " and, as Chancellor Walworth observed in Lorillardv. Coster, 5 Paige, 172, 215, there
cited, "the executors and trustees must be considered as the
legal representatives of the rights of persons not yet in eme."
And they are necessary parties. -onnelay v. Balls, 6 Jur.
550. In Palmer v. Flower, L. R. 13 Eq. 250, cited for the
defendapts, in which the court construed a will without bringing in a child born pending the suit, who had like interests
with parties already before the court, the trustee was a party.
In the cases in which bills in equity, without an executor or
administrator being made a party, have been maintained while
the probate or the administration was being contested in the
ecclesiastical court, the court of chancery exercised a jurisdic-

?AcARTHUR v. SCOTT.
Opinion of the Court.

tion, concurrent with that of the ecclesiastical courts in appointing special administrators, for the simple purpose of preserving the property until there was some person entitled to
receive it. Xbnntonwry v. Clark, 2 Atk. 378; King v. King,
6 Ves. 172 ; Atkinson v. Renshaw, 2 Ves. & B. 85 ; WVatkins v.
Brent, 1 Myl. & Cr. 97; Tf-itworth v. WV7yddon, 2 ]Macn.
& Gord! 52; Statute of Ohio of 'arch i2, 1831, ยง 8, 3 Chase's
Statutes, 1777. Under like circumstances, a bill of discovery.
of real assets can be maintained only to preserve a debt. Conway v. Stroude, Freem. Oh. 188; Plunket v. Pensco, 2
Atk. 51.
In a suit in which a general administration .of the assets of
a deceased person is nece-.ary to the relief prayed, an allegation that a suit is pending in the ecclesiastical court for a grant
of administration may prevent the bill from being held bad on
demurrer; because in equity it is sufficient if administration is
obtained at any time after bill filed and before a hearing upon
the merits. Penny v. Watts, 2 Phillips, 149, 154; Fell v. Lutwidge, Barnard. Oh. 319, 3a0; Humphreys v. Humphreys, 3
P. Wins. 349, 351 ; Simons v. Afilman, 2 Sim. 241; Beardmore
v. Gregory, 2 Hem. & Mil. 491. 3ut it has been uniformly held
that such a suit cannot proceed to a final decree, even when
the executor is out of the jurisdiction, or no executor has been
appointed, until an appointment of a personal representative
has been made within the jurisdiction, by the competent
court; and it appears to be settled in England that this must
be a general administrator, unless the court of probate, upon
application made to it for administration, insists on appointing an administrator ad litem ofily. Mitford P1. (4th ed.)
177, 178 ; Tyler v. Bell, I Keen, 826, and 2 Myl. & Cr. 89;
Green v. Lane, 16 Jur. 1061; Devaynes v. Robinson, 24 'Beav.
86, 98; Cary v. Hills, L. R. 15 Eq. 79; ]?oweell v. 3foarris,
L. R. 17 Eq. 20; Dowdeswell v. Dowdeseell, 9.Oh. D. 294.
In England, while the probate of wills in the ecclesiastical
court was conclusive as to the personal estate only, a court of
chancery, upon a bill by creditors for the sale of real estate for
the payment of debts, or by beneficiaries to enforce trusts
created by the will, might indeed ,render a decree as between

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

the parties before it ; and sometimes, as incident to such decree,
would declare that, as between them, the will was established.
But no decree establishing the will in the absence of the
heir at law, even if out of the jurisdiction or not to be found,
could bind him. French v. Baron, 2 Atk 120; S.C. 1 Dick.
138; Banister v. WVay, 2 Dick. 599; Smith v. Hibernian
Xining Co., 1 Sch. & Lef. 238, 241; Fordham v. Bole, Tamlyn,
1, 3, and note; W[aterton v. Croft, 6 Sim. 431; Mitford P.
173; Calvert on Parties, 218-220; 1 Maddock Oh. Pract 604;
Story Eq. P. ยง 87; Rule 50 in Equity, 1 How. Ivi.
Executors and trustees, appointed by the testator to perform
the trusts of the will and to protect the interests of his beneficiaries, are as necessary parties to a proceeding to annul a
probate, as the heirs at law are to a suit to establish the
validity of a will. And upon a review of the cases no precedent has been found, either in a court of probate or in a
court of chancery, in which a decree disallowing a will, rendered in a suit brought to set it aside, or to assert an adverse
title in the estate, without making such executors, or an administrator with the will annexed, a party to the suit, has been
held binding upon persons not before the court.
As under the statute of Ohio, as construed by the Supreme
Court of that State, a decree annulling the probate of a will is
not merely irregular and erroneous, but absolutely void, as
against persons interested in the will and not parties to the
decree, and as these plaintiffs were neither actually nor constructively parties to the decree setting aside the will of their
grandfather, it follows that that decreer is no bar to the assertion of their rights under the will. To extend the doctrine of
constructive and virtual representation, adopted by courts of
equity on considerations of sound.policy and practical necessity,
to a Oecree like this, in which it is apparent that there was no
real representation of the interests of these plaintiffs, would be
to confess that the court is powerless to do justice to suitors
who have never before had a hearing.
The subsequent partition among the heirs at law, and the
conveyances by them to third persons for valuable consideration, cannot affect the title of these plaintiffs. All the facts

McARTHUR v. SCOTT.
Opinion of the Court.

upon which that title depends appeared of record in judicial
proceedings, of which all persons, whether claiming under or
adversely to the will, were bound to take notice. The will and
the original probate thereof were of record in the county in
which the probate was granted. The will as there recorded
showed the estate devised to these plaintiffs and to the executors in trust for them. The recording of thfe will and probate in any other county in whibh there was land devised was
required for the purpose of evidence only, and not to give effect
to the probate. Hall v. Aahly, 9 Ohio, 96, 99; Carpenter v.
Denoon, 29 Ohio St. 379, 395. The record of the decree setting
aside the will showed that neither these plaintiffs, nor any executors or successors of executors in the trust, were parties to
the suit; and consequently that the plaintiffs' title under thle
will, as originally admitted to probate, was not affected by that
decree. The subsequent purchasers must therefore look to
their vendors, and have no equity as against these plaintiffs.
Even a purchaser of land sold under a decree in equity, though
he is not affected by mere irregularity in the mode of proceeding against the parties to the suit in which the decree is
rendered, yet, as has been observed by Lord Redesdale, and
repeated by the Supreme Court of Ohio, is to see that all
proper parties to be bound are before the court, and that taking
the conveyance he takes a title that cannot be impeached
aliundce. Bennett v. Hamnmill, 2 Sch. & Lef. 566, 577; .7fasse v.
Donaldson, 8 Ohio, 377, 381.
The present suit does not seek to annul or impeach a decree
of a State court granting or refusing probate of a will, but to
assert the title of the plaintiffs under a probate granted according to the law of the State, and Ivhich, by that law, stands
unaffected, as to them, by the subsequent proceedings between
other parties, and conclusively establishes their title. The case
thus avoids the difficulties considered in Ellis v. Davis, 109 U.
S.485, and cases there cited.
[The decree of the Circuit Court must therefore be reversed,
and the case remanded for further proceedings in cowformity with this opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Dissenting Opinion: Waite, C. J., Harlan, J.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE (with whom MR. JUSTICE A RLAN
concurred), dissenting.
Mr. Justice Harlan and myself are unable to agree to this
judgment. In our opinion the decree of the IRoss County Court
of Common Pleas, setting aside the will of Duncan McArthur,
is binding on the complainants in this case. The devise of the
property in dispute was in its legal effect to a class of persons,
that is to say, to the grandchildren of the testator, the lawful
issue of his five surviving children, when the. youngest or last
grandchild should arrive at the age of twenty-one years. If a
grandchild died before the division of the estate, leaving a child
or children, his or her share was to go to his or her child or
children. All the childien of the testator, and all the grandchildren in being when the decree was rendered, were parties
to the suit. Thus it appears that at the time of the decree all
persons then in life of the class of devisees to which the complainants belong were in court and subject to its jurisdiction.
This court now decides that these grandchildren, living at
the death of the testator, took in equity a vested remainder at
once, subject to open and let in afterborn grandchildren.
Such being the case, it seems to us that the grandchildren in
whom such estate vested represented those to be born afterwards for all the purposes of a contest of the will under the
Ohio statute governing that proceeding. At most, the executors and the executrix held only the naked legal title. The
equitable title was in the grandchildren. Under these circumstances the failure to cause new executors to be appointed
after the resignation of those who had legally qualified, a, to
bring them in as parties, is not, in our opinion, fatal to the
decree. The entire equitable estate was represented by the
grandchildren in being, and whatever is sufficient to bind them
must, as we think, bind also those of the same class of devisees
with themselves who were afterwards born.
The devise of the legal title was to the "executors and the
successors of them." The two executors who qualified resigned
their offices, and their resignations were accepted, before the
suit was begun. Mrs. Coons, the executrix, did not resign until
afterwards, and she was made a party to the suit both in her

McARTHIUR v. SCOTT.
Dissenting Opinion: Waite, C. J., Harlan, J.

representative and individual capacity. Before her resignation,
and before the suit was begun, she had 8ucceeded to all the rights
of the executors in the property.

She was the 8uccesso of the

executors who had resigned, and as such alone represented the
legal title. She continued a party to the suit until the final'
decree. It is difficult to see, therefore, why the naked legal
title, which was all the executors took under the will, was
not represented in the suit during the whole course of the
proceeding.
But whether this be so or not is to our minds a matter of no
importance. The suit was brought to contest the will. The
grandchildren of the testator, the lawful issue of his five
enumerated children, formed one class of beneficiaries provided
for in the will. As a class, their interests were opposed to the
contestants. Those of the class who were in being took the
title as well for themselves as for those who should be afterwards born. The interests of those in being ind those born
afterwards were in all respects the same. It would seem, therefore, that whatever bound those who held the title should bind
all those not then in being for whom they held it. Otherwise,
as in Ohio, no suit can be brought to contest a will except within
two years after probate, it is difficult to see how a will can be
contested there when the devise is to a class of persons which
may not be full until after that period has elapsed. It is no
part of the duty of executors to defend a will against a contest.
That is left to the devisees or those interested in sustaining the
will. As this, in our opinion, disposes of the case, we have
deemed it unnecessary to refer specially to any of the other
questions which were presented for argument.
MR. JusTIcE MATrH.ws, having been of counsel, did not sit

in this case, or take any part in the decision.

