STEAMSHIP CO. "v. EMIGRATION COMMISSIONERS. 33
Opinion of the Court.
LIVERPOOL, NEW YORK AND PHILADELPHIA
STEAMSHIP COMPANY V. COMMISSIONERS OF
EMIGRATION.
IN

ERROR

TO THE

CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES F6R

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Argued March 24, 25, 1884.-Decided January 5, 1885.

In an action of indebiatus awsump8it, to recover money alleged to have been
illegally exacted, a declaration, which avers the fact of indebtedness, and
a promise in consideration thereof, is sufficient on general demurrer, unless
it appears that the alleged indebtedness was impossible in law.
To such a declaration, treated as a complaint according to the New York Code,
an answer was filed, setting up, as a defence, an act of Congress tolegalize
the collection of head moneys already paid, approved June 19, 1878. The
Circuit Court refused to hear evidence in support of the plaintiff's case,
and gave judgment, on the pleadings, in favor of the defendant.
Held, That this was error, because'it did not appear from the record that the
money sued for was within the description of the act of Congress.

This was an action of assumpsit to recover, back moneys paid
to the Commissioners of Emigration of the State of New York
by the steamship company, a carrier of emigrants to the
United States. The case was elaborately argued, but the question on which the case is remanded was not discussed in the
briefs. The facts in respect of it are stated ifithe opinion of
the court.
.r.

Athbe

Green for plaintiff in error.

.Mr. George I . Sanders (Mr. Thwis Sanders was with him),
for defendants in error.
Mi. JUSTICE MATTHEWS delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff in error was plaintiff below, and, being a corporation under the laws of Great Britain and an alien, brought
this action in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York, the defendant being a corporation of that State.
voL. cxn-3

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

The action was in form inbi~ttu8 assumpsit, and the substance of the declaration was as follows:
"3d. And the said plaintiff, by its said attorneys, complains
of the said defendant in a plea of assumpsit upon implied promise for that whereas the said defendant on the 10th day of February, 1875, at the city of New York, in the Southern District
of New York afoFesaid, was indebted to the said plaintiff in
the sum of one million and ninety-three thousand dollars and
upwards, lawful money of the United States of America, for
certain commutation moneys from the plaintiff unlawfully demanded, exacted, and received at the city of New York by the
said defendant under color of certain laws in the State of New
York concerning passengers in vessels coming to the State of
New York, and concerning the powers and duties of Commissioners of Emigration, and for the regulation of marine hospitals, and paid by the said plaintiff under the inducement of
certain representations of the defendant, this plaintiff being an
alien and not knowing the laws of the State of New York, and
under protest at various times preceding the said 10th day of
February, 1875, and in: various sums, and to and for the use of
the plaintiff.
"4th. And being so indebted, the said defendant, in consideratioil thereof, afterwards, to wit, on the same day and year
last aforesaid, at the place aforesaid, undertook and then and
there faithfully promised the said plaintiff well and truly to pay
unto the said plaintiff, the said sum of money when," &c., and
alleging a breach there6f.
To this declaration, treating it as a complaint according to
the procedure under the New York Code, the defendant filed
an answer, setting up several distinct- defences, and among
others the following
"VII. That by au act of Congress entitled ' A bill to legalize the collection of head moneys already paid,' approved June
19th, 1878, the acts of every state and municipal officer or corporation in the several states of the United States in collection
of head moneys for every passenger brought to the United
States prior to the first day of January, 1877, under then eleisting laws of the several States, were declared valid, and the

STEAMSHIP CO. -v. EMIGRATION COMMISSIONERS. 35
Opinion ol the Court.

said acts were ratified, adopted, and confirmed by the United
States ; and it was furthei declared that no suits for the recovery of the moneys so paid should be maintained against any
state or municipal officer or corporation.
"That plaintiff, in prosecuting this action, is maintaining it;
for the recovery of head moneys paid prior to 1st January,
1877, pursuant to the then existing laws of the State of New
York, for passengers, by the master, consignee, or owner of
vessels bringing passengers to the United States from a foreign
port, against this defendant as a state corporation of New York,
against the form of the statute aforesaid, which said statute
this defendant pleads in bar of plaintiff's right to maintain
this action and of the jurisdiction of this court to entertain the
same.)-

The bill of exceptions, taken at the trial, shows the following
proceedings:"The counsel for the said plaintiff opened the cause to the
jury. The defendant's counsel moved to dismiss on the grounds
that ihe court had no jurisdiction, and that an act of Congress
entitledI A bill to legalize the colection of head moneys already paid,' approved June 19, 1878, was a bar to any recovery on any of the alleged causes of action set forth in the complaint.
"Whereupon the court, being of opinion that said bill was a
bar to any recovery on any of the alleged causes of action set
forth in the complaint , upon that ground refused to hear evidence,-and directed a verdict for the defendants, and that the
defendants have judgment against the plaintiff with costs.
"Whereupon the counsel for the plaintiffs, in due time, then
and there duly 6xcepted to fhe ruling, opinion, decision, and
direction of the said judge," &c.
Judgment was accordingly rendered foi the defendant, to review which this writ of error is prosecuted.
The act of Congress of June 19, 1878, referred to in the bill
of exceptions by its title, is as follows:
"Be it enacted, &c., That the acts of every State and munic
ipal officer, or corporation of the several States of the United
States, in the collection of head moneys, prior to the first day

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

of January, eighteen hundred and seventy-seven, from the
master, consignee, or owner of any vessel bringing passengers
to the United States from a foreign port, pursuant to the then
existing laws of the several States, shall be valid, and no action
shall be maintained against any such State or municipal officer,
or corporation, for the recovery of any moneys so paid or collected prior to said date." 20 Stat. 177.
It is contended by counsel for the plaintiff in error that the
sole question open for argument here, because the only one
passed on by the Circuit Court, is whether this act of Congress
is a valid enactment, though it is admitted that this question
divides itself into two; whether Congress had constitutional
power to make valid, by subsequent ratification, those laws of
the States, which had been previously declared to be void, as
regulations of commerce with foreign nations; and whether, if
not, it nevertheless could forbid resort to the courts of the
United States to those otherwise entitled, claimiig redress for
what had been done, to their damage, under such statutes'of
the States.
On the other hand, it has been argued in support of the judgment by counsel for the defendant in error:
1. That the payments alleged to have been made in the complaint were voluntary, for which no recovery can be had on
general principles of law.
2. That the defendant in error, being sued in its official
capacity, is n6t suable, being merely the official representative
of the State of New York, and that, at least, its relation to the
subject is such under the laws of New York, under which it
assumed to act, that it is not chargeable upon any principles of
implied contract for the moneys alleged, to have been paid.
3. And that the act of Congress referred to is a valid enactment and a bar to the action.
These questions, particularly that which challenges the constitutionality of the act of Congress, it is-manifest, are of very
grave importance; and,'after much consideration, we feel constrained to reverse the judgment, without deciding any of them.
The reasons, which seem to us to requfre this course, may be
very briefly stated.

STEAMSHIP CO. r. EMIGRATION COMMISSIONERS.

37

Opinion of the Court.

The bill of exceptions states that the counsel for the plaintiff
below, after the jury had been sworn to try the, issues, opened
the cause to the jury, that is, made a statement of the facts
constituting the cause of action which he expected to prove;
but it does not show what that statement was, nor what were
the facts which the plaintiff relied on and expected to prove.
In this respect the case differs from that of O8canyan! v.Arm
Co., 103 U. S. 261, where it was held to be entirely proper for
the trial court to direct a verdict for the defendant upon the
opening statement of counsel for the plaintiff, when,- as in that
case, such statement is full, exact, and explicit. "Of course,"
said the court in that case, "in all such proceedings nothing
should be taken, without full consideration, against the party
making the statement or admission. He should be allowed to
explain and qualify it, so far as the truth will permit; but if,
with such explanation and qualification, it should clearly appear that there could be no recovery, the court should not hesitate to so declare and give such direction as will dispose of the
action." The practice under that rule is not objectionable.
On the contrary, it is convenient to court and parties, and not
only saves time and expense in shortening trials, but has the
merit of presenting the whole case, in a condensed and precise form, for the consideration of a court of review.
In the present case, the fact that a statement was made of
the plaintiff' case, without disclosing, in the bill of exceptions
the facts suposed to constitute it, is referred to for the purpose qf shoving that the court below did not act upon that
stateihent, and that it is not open to this court to conjecture
what it was. The legal inference only is, that it was any case
which he was at liberty to prove under his complaint and the
issues framed upon it.
What the Circuit Court did was to refuse to hear evidence,
not on the ground that the opening statement of the counsel
disclosed no right of action, but because it was of opinion that
the act of Congress "was a bar to any recovery on any of the
alleged causes of action set forth in the complaint ;" that is,
that, in view of the act of Congress, the coniplaint was substantially defective in not stating a cause of action, so that it

- OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

would be bad on general demurrer; and thereupon judgment
was rendered for the defendant on the pleadings alone:
The complaint, upon examination, shows the allegation of an
indebtedness from the defendant to the plaintiff, for money un-,
lawfully demanded, exacted and received by the defendant
under color of law, and paid by the plaintiff in ignorance of
-its rights, in consequence of representations made by the defendant, and under protest; and this indebtedness is alleged
as the consideration of an implied promise to repay the same.
This statement, it is quite true, is general and vague. It does
not allege with particularity the laws under color of which the
exactions were made, nor the circumstances attending the payment. But it is sufficient; for an actual indebtedness is alleged, and, there is nothing in the complaint *tocontradict the
fact, or to demonstrate its impossibility as matter of law.
And, although the complaint states that the money was exacted
"under color of certain laws in the State of New York concerning passengers in vessels coming to the State of New York,
and concerning the powvers and duties of Commissioners of
Emigration, and for the regulation of marine hospitals," this
does not necessarily identify the mcneys alleged to have been
thus exacted and paid with the "head moneys," the collection
of which it was the professed object of the act of Congress to
legalize. If it be- said that it is matter of judicial cognizance
that there were ih New York at the time no other laws, under
color of which such exactions and payments could have been
made-which we do not admit-nevertheless, it remains, that,
consistently with the allegations of the complaint, the moneys
paid may have been illegally exacted in violation of the laws
under color of which, it is alleged, their payment was demanded
and made. And the allegation in the answer, that the moneys
sued for are, in fact, the "head moneys" which the act of
Congress prohibits the recovery of, does not cure the difficulty,
for that may have been the very issue to be tried. Taking the
complaint to be true, which is what we are bound to do in the
present state of the record, the indebtedness alleged to exist
must be admitted to exist in fact, if it is possible to exist in law;
and. this, we may affrm, even though the act of Congress

STEAMSHIP CO. v. EMIGRATION COMMISSIONERS. 39
Opinion of the, Court.
pleaded and adjudged to be a bar, be a valid law; for it is not
apparent on the record that the money sued for was "head
money," nor that it was exacted and paid in accordance with
the laws of the State. It will certainly not be denied that, if
the moneys sued for were exacted and paid in violation of the
laws of New York, under color of which, it is said, they were
demanded, and the exaction and payment were made under
circumstances authorizing a recovery under the laws of that
State, or of the common law in force there, it was not the intention of Congress to interpose a bar to the suit. It is impossible for us on this record to say that this is not such a case.
If, on the other hand, we should assume the plaintiff's case
to be within the terms of the statute, we should have to deal
with it purely as an hypothesis, and pass upon the constitutionality of an act of Congress as an abstract question. That
is not the mode in which this court is accustomed or willing to
consider such questions. It has no jurisdiction to pronounce
any statute, either of a State or of the United States, void, because irreconcilable with the Constitution, except as it is called
upon to adjudge the legal rights of litigants in actual controversies. In the exercise of that jurisdiction, it is bound by two
rules, to which it has rigidly adhered, one, never to anticipate
a question of constitutional law in advance of the necessity of
deciding it; the other never to formulafe a rule of constitutional law broader than is required by ',he precise facts to
which it is to be-applied. These rules are safe guides to sound
judgment. It is the dictate of wisdom to follow them closely
and carefully.
In the present case, the main and ultimate question is whether
the defendant is legally liable to repay the moneys sued for,
and, as incidental to that, whether the act of Congress pleaded
as a bar to the action is valid. The solution of these questions
depends upon facts not apparent upon the present record. That
these may be made to appear there must be a new trial.
For these reasons
The judgment of the Circuit Court i8 reversed, and the caus
remanded,.with direction8 to award a iew trial; and it ig
8o ordered.

