FLAGG v. WALKER.
Syllabus.

strong when the witness, after reading it, has no -recollection
of the facts stated in it, but testifies to the truth of those facts
only because of his confidence that he must have known them
to be true when he signed the memorandum. Haeey v. Sinebaugh,15 N. Y. 485; .Xarclyv. Shults, 29 N. Y. 34 6 ,355; State
v. RawlM, 2 Nott & McCord, 331; O'.Teall v. Walton', 1 Rich.
234.
In any view of the case, therefore, the'copy of the protest
was erroneously admitted, bechuse the memorandum in ink,
which was tke only one on which the witness relied, was made
long after the transaction which it purported to state; and its
admission requires that the
Judgment be reversed, and a new trial ordered.

FLAGG & Another v. WALKER.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUrr COD7T OF THE UITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHPERl DISTRIOT OF ILLINOIS.
Argued January 16, M85.-DecIded March 2, 1885.

A, being embarrassed, conveyed by deed absolute several parcels of land in
Illinois to B, amobg which were a tract known as ",
the pasture," encumbered by a mortgage to 0 ; other tracts occupied by shops and tenements;
and "the homestead," also encumbered with a mortgage. B agreed verbally to advance to A and wife $1,500 a year for four years ; to dispose of
the property conveyed to him ; to apply the proceeds'to the payment of A's
debts ; and to divide equally between himself and them what might remain
at the end of four years. Subsequently B made and delivered, and they
received and accepted, a written agreement substantially to that effect, and
further providing that B's liability to C should not exceed th amount realized from sale of "the pasture ;" that the deed to B was absolute for all
purposes ; and that B was to hav cle free and unobstructed control and
ownership of the property. B remained for some time in possession ; paid
sundry debts due from A ; made advances in cash for A's use and for taxes
and repairs ; and advanced money for and took an assignment to himself of
the mortgage on "the homestead." A then resumed possession, and subsequently thereto the mortgage on "the pasture" was foreclosed and the
property sold. Held, (1) That the relation of B to A and his wife was

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.
not that of mortgagee, but that of trustee, under the original deed
and subsequent agreements ; (2) That B was not bound to advance out of
his own means money to pay the mortgage debt on the pastnre tract ; (3)
That A was under no personal liability to B for advances made by him ;
(4) that the mortgage debt on "the homestead" was one of the debts which
B had undertaken to pay out of the proceeds of the property, and that he
was entitled to be reimbursed for advances for its purchase not merely out
of the mortgaged premises, -but out of the proceeds of all the property conveyed to him by A.
The time fixed by the decree in the court below for payment by appellant to
appellee of a sum named in the decree, in order to secure a reconveyanceof
the property in litigation having expired pending the appeal, and without
payment, and the appellants having given an appeal bond which superseded
the decree, in affirming'the judgment the court modifies the decree, so as
to extend the time of payment.

William F. Flagg, one of the appellees, was the owner, in
February, 1875, of real estate in and near the city of Bloomington, Illinois, which may be generally described as follows:
1. A large manufacturing establishment, known as the Empire
Machine Works, and about. three acres of land upon which it
stood. 2. A tract of land containing about 69 acres, known as
"the pasture," situate in the northeastern part of the city. 3.
Block No. 1, in Flagg's third addition to the city of Bloomington, containing about five acres, on which stood his residence.
This property is designated in the record as the "homestead."
4. A large number of lots in the city, most of them vacant, but
on about ten of which were tenement houses. 5. A tract in
Fayette County, Illinois, and lands in Pettis County, Missouri.
He also owned a large amount of personal property, consisting
mainly of the machinery and tools in the Empire Machi'.Works.
At the date mentioned he was embarrassed in business and
owed over $50,000. The larger part of this indebtedness boreinterest at the rate of ten per cent. per annum. Much of the
real estate was covered by mortgages; his tenement houses
were out of repair; he was largely in arrears for taxes and for
interest on his indebtedness, and was in broken health. In
this condition of his affaus he sent for the appellee, Samuel
Walker, who resided in Massachusetts, and who was the brother

FLAGG v. WALKER.
Statement of Facts.

of his first wife, and made a statement to him of his financial
condition and embarrassments.
On February 22, 1875, after a conference between Flagg
Maggie R. Flagg, his wife, Walker, and"J. H. iRowell, who,
up t" that time, had been the counsel of Flagg, but who on
that occasion, with the knowledge of Flagg, , cted as attorney
for Walker, Flagg agreed to convey all his real estate to
Walker by deed, his personal property by bill of sale, and his
choses in action by assignment.
Although .there is some conflict in the testimony on this
point., it plainly appears that these transfers were to be made
to enable Walker to control and dispose of the property as he
saw fit. Its management and the disposition of the proceeds
were left entirely to his judgment and discretion, both Mr. and
Mrs. Flagg having full confidence in his business ability and
integrity; but their understanding was that the proceeds of
the property were to be applied to the payment of Flagg's
debts, and Walker was to advance money temporarily for that
purpose.
The effect of the proposed transfer was explained to Mr. and
Mrs. Flagg by Rowell. On the next day, February 23, Flagg
and wife executed to Walker deeds of conveyance, absolute on
their face, of all the real estate above mentioned, and Flagg
gave him a bill of sale of all his personal property and an
assignment of his choses in action. Walker at once took possession of all the property, except the "hometeatl," which by
agreement was to be left in the occupancy of Mr. and Mrs.
Flagg.
In the following April Walker stated to Mrs. Flagg that he
would allow her $1,500 per year for four years; that, at the
end of that time, he thought he would be able to dispose of
the property and would give a bond that whAtever was left,
after paying all the indebtedness and the expenses of disposing
of the pioperty, he would divide equally between himself and
Mr. and Mrs. Flagg. This proposition was accepted.
Afterwards Walker executed anddelivered to Mrs. Flagg
(Mr. Flagg being absent from home) a writing, which opened
with the following recital:

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

"This agreement, made this 12th day of April, 1815, between
Samuel Walker, of the.first part, and William F. Flagg, of the
second part, witnesseth, that the said Flagg and wife have
heretofore conveyed to the said Walker all the real and personal
property of the said Flagg."
The writing then declared that, in consideration of such conveyance, Walker agreed, in addition to the moneys already
advanced by him for Flagg, to pay him $1,500 per yea for
four years, and pay off all the ascertained indebtedness of
Flagg which had at that time been made known to him, and
that Flagg should occupy his residence for one year free from
any interference by sale of the same or otherwise. But Walker,
by the same instrument, limited his liability to pay the sum of
$25,000 due to Hiram Sibley, secured by trust deed to Corydon
Weed, "to the amount realized out of the lands mortgaged to
secure the same." He further agreed that, after "a disposition"
of the property conveyed to him by Flagg, if anything should
remain of the proceeds after reimbursing Walker for payments
for. Flagg, and paying the expenses of. the management and
sale of the trust property, he would pay to Flagg, or his legal
representatives, the one-half of such excess.
The writing then stated, and was signed and witnessed, as
follows:
"It being the express understanding that the conveyance
heretofore made to said Walker is absolute for all purposes;
that the said Walker is to have the free and unobstructed
ownership and control of said Property; that he will dispose
of such property at pleasure, and according to his best judgment; and in all things be the sole judge of time and manner of
using and disposing of said property,, both real and personal;
and this agreement is to include the property known as the
Empire Machine Works, as well as the other property of said
Flagg. The said Flagg, by his acceptance of this contract,
agrees to its terms and consents to all its parts. Witness our
hands the day and year first above written.
SAM'L WALKER.
"Witness: J. H. Rowell and John M. Hamilton."

FLAGG v. WALKER.
Statement of Facts.

There is no doubt that the agreement of Walker embodied
in this paper was accepted by Mr. and Mrs. Flagg, and was for
a time acted on by both them and Walker..
Walker, upon the transfer above mentioned by Flagg of the
property of the latter, paid off all, or nearly all, of the unsecured debts of Flagg, and furnished Mrs. Flagg with money to
pay the taxes which were due and interest due and unpaid on
the residue of Flagg's debts, and supplied Flagg with money
to take a journey for the improvement of his health. The
money so advanced amounted on August 27, 1875, to over
$11,000.
Among the other indebtedness of Flagg there was due from
him to one Soper about $5,000 in notes and on open account.
Walker, acting upon the advice of Flagg, sold to Soper the
tools and machinery in the Empire Machine Works, and as
part consideration therefor Soper acknowledged payment of
the debt due to him from Flagg, and gave his notes for the
residue. Walker also leased to Soper, by the advice and with
the consent of Flagg, one-half of the Empire Machine Works
buildings for $1,500 per year. Walker began repairing the
tenement houses so as to put them in good condition for renting.
H ving appointed one Du Bois as his agent to look after the
property, superintend the repairs which he had begun, and collect the rents, he returned to his home in Massachusetts.
When the transfer of his property was made by Flagg to
Walker in February, 1875, there was a deed of trust on the
sixty-nine acre tract, known as "the pasture," to Corydon
Weed, trustee, to secure $25,000 due to Hiram Sibley, bearing
interest at the rate of ten per cent. per annum, payable semiannually, and there was a mortgage on the "homestead" for
$9,000, bearing like interest. In November, 1876, the interest
on the debt due to Sibley being in arrear, Weed, the trustee,
by virtue of a power contained in the deed of trust, advertised
"the pasture" for sale, and on the day mentioned in the notice
sold it at public sale to Hiram Sibley for $10,500.
The mortgage for $9,000 on the homestead was purchased
by Walker on July 1, 1876, the amount paid, principal and
interest, being $9,976.77.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

After these events, on September 25, 1878, the original bill
in this case was filed by Mrs. Flagg against Walker, Sibley,
Weed, the trustee, and her husband, William F. Flagg. It
alleged that since the conveyances made by her husband to
Walker, in February, 1875, the former had by mesne conveyances transferred and conveyed to her "all his interest, right,
and title in and to said real estate above mentioned," referring
to the real estate conveyed by Flagg to Walker, "and all personal property appertaining thereto, or that went into the
hands of Samuel Walker." The bill set out the transfer to
Walker by Flagg and his wife of the real and personal estate of
Flagg, and in referencethereto made the following averments:
"That the said deeds were intended by said William F.
Flagg and oratrix to secure the said Samuel Walker for his
advances to be made by him, as above set forth, and as a further security for a reasonable compensation to be paid to him
for the rendition of such services, and that :he might out of the
sale of a portion of said property be reimbursed for such advances and compensation.

It was also, agreed

.

.

.

that

when the purpose for which such conveyance had been made
was fully completed the said Samuel Walker was to reconvey
to William F. Flagg, or to oratrix, as they might elect, at least
one-half of the property, remaining unsold and undisposed of,
and should keep for himself and for his compensation a portion
of said lands, not exceeding one-half of the residue, after payment of all debts." The bill also averred "that shortly after
receiving the said deeds of conveyance the said Samuel Walker
executed a statement, in writing, in which he set forth and
stated to.your oratrix the use and purpose, both set forth, upon
which the said Samuel Walker had received the said property
in trust." The bill charged "that said deeds of conveyance
made to Samuel Walker, while, in fact, warranty deeds,"
were, "in equity, no more or less than mortgages, made to
secure said Samuel Walker for his advances to be made by
him, and said advances were to be, sufficient in amount to pay
all indebtedness of said William F. Flagg to other persons than
said Samuel Walker; and that said Samuel Walker was to
reimburse himself out of the sales to be made by him."

FLAGG v. WALKER.
Statement of Facts.

The bill alleged that Walker neglected and refused to furnish money to pay the interest on the- debt to Sibley, secured
by the tiust deed to Weed on "the pasture," which was well
worth $80,000, and that, had it not been for the conveyance
thereof by Flagg to Walker, Flagg would havo been able to
raise money to pay the interest on the debt as it accrued, or
could have made a new loan and paid off Sibley's claim in full;
but by reason of the conveyance to Walker he was unable to
do so; and that Walker knoWingly and wilfully permitted
Sibley, by Weed, his trustee, to sell the premises at a forced
sale for about $10,000, when its real value;-at the time of the
sale, was $80,000.
The bill further charged as follows: "That Walker, as to
the real estate conveyed to him by Flagg, is to be taken and
deemed as mortgagee thereof;

.

.

.

and that by reason of

the execution of said instrument in writing by Walker, as the
purpose for which he received said conveyance," said conveyance "is to be taken and deemed in equity as a trust deed on
said lands;" and that Walker should "be charged with-the
value of all the real estate which, in fault of his said trust, he
has permitted to be sold, and thereby alienated from said
William F. Flagg or the plaintiff, and is likewise to be charged
with a reasonable rental value of all said premises."
The prayer of the bill was as follows: That Walker might
be charged with all the waste committed or permitted by him
on the property conveyed to him by Flagg, and with "the
value of property allowed by him to be alienated ;" the amount
of taxes and interest paid by Flagg or the plaintiff, ;with interest thereon ; and that he might be credited with what he
had paid out for Flagg or the plaintiff, with interest, "and
that the difference between the said 'items' should be charged
to said Samuel Walker by reason of his failure to act as trustee
as aforesaid; that said mortgage by him now held up6h the
homestead of your oratrix, should be cancelled; that if there
be any outstanding claims against the said William F. Flagg
which were liens" [or] "encumbrances at the time of the conveyance to liim,-that they should be satisfied and paid out of the
decree so awarded against said Samuel Walker, and the prop-

666

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

erty above mentioned now remaining in the name of said
Samuel Walker be thereby free, clear, and released from all encumbrances -and liens, and that said Samuel Walker should be
decreed by this court to reconvey the residue, or such portion
thereof as the court shall decree your oratrix is entitled to, by
proper deeds of conveyance."
Walker filed his answer alleging that he came to Illinois at
the request of Flagg and his wife, and upon examination of
Flagg's affairs found thAt he was deeply in debt; that his real
estate was heavily encumbered, and that he owed a large floating debt and was- out of funds, and that all of his property was
likely to be taken from him if it should be forced to sale; but
that, after a full investigation, he became'satisfied that Flagg's
property, with good management, was worth more than his indebtedness, an d that he proposed that Flagg should convey all
his property to him$and let him manage his business for him;
that Walker .agreed- that he would take the property without
any future right of control, management -or ownership remaining in Flagg, and would pay off the debts of Flagg specified in
a list furnished to him by Flagg.
This list did not include the debt due to Sibley, and he refused to assume that debt, and would not agree to pay it, but
promised that he would use the rents and profits of the land
towards keeping down the interest on the Sibley debt and the
taxes, and if he could sell the property so as to pay the debt he
would do so, or he would convey the same to any parties to
whom Flagg might sell.
HKe denied wastb or mismanagement, and'averred that the
conveyance to him was absolute and not a mortgage.
He alleged that he had paid out of his own means on the
indebtedness of Flagg $10,000. more than he had realized out
of the personal property transferred to him by Flagg, in addition to the money paid for the trust deed or mortgage on
the "homestead" property. He further alleged that the
whole property now held by him would not bring the money,
paid out by him and the accumulated interest, and that the
amount was growing larger because he was deprived of the
rents and profits of the property.

FLAGG v. WALKER.
Statement of Facts.

On June 28, 1878, Walker filed a cross-bill, to which he made
'William F. Flagg, Maggie R. Flagg and Hiram Sibley defendants, and in which he set up substantially the same facts as in
his answer, and prayed for a decree that his title to the premises be confirmed, and that the claim of the defendants to any
title thereto be declared null and void; and that if, upon the
final hearing, his title should be held to be a mortgage, an account might be taken of the amount of money paid out by
him in consideration of said conveyances, and that the amount
of the same, together with the interest, should be declared a
lien upon said real and personal property, and that in
default of payment thereof a strict foreclosure might be
granted.
To this cross-bill, by leave of court, the original bill of Maggie R. Flagg was made to stand as an answer.
A large mass of evidence having been taken, the court, on
August 5, 1879, made an interlocutory decree, in which it was
found that Walker held said real and personal property, conveyed and transferred to him by Flagg, in trust for the purposes expressed in the declaration of trust made by Walker on
April 12, 1875, and for the purpose of security to himself for
all moneys paid out by him for Flagg, or for or on behalf of
the property of Flagg; that Walker had expended large sums
of money in paying off the indebtedness of Flagg, and in
taking care of and repairing the property, and in necessary
expenses in the execution of the trust, in paying off and discharging liens and encumbrances upon the property, for all of
which he was entitled to a first lien upon said real estate and
upon all the personal property conveyed to him; that Walker
assumed no portion of the debt due and owing by Flagg to
Sibley, beyond what the land covered by the, mortgage to
secure it might be sold for, and that Walker was not liable for
any damages growing out of said indebtedness on said mortgage. The decree declared that the acts of Walker were approved, and referred the case to a master, to state an account
beween Walker and William F. Flagg and Maggie R. Flagg;
and directed that the master, in stating the account, should not
charge anything for any failure on the part of Walker to sell

OCTOBER TERM, 1884..
Argument for Appellants.

any of the real estate, or on account of any depreciation of the
value thereof.
On the 5th of September, 1879, the master filed his report,
in which he credited Walker with the sum of $28,996.63, and
charged him with the sum of $3,789.50, leaving a balance due
to Walker of $25,207.13.
On the 4th of October, 1880, th6 court entered a final decree
in the cause, in which it was found that there was due to
Walker the sum of $25,207.13, and that said snm was a first
lien upon the property conveyed by Flagg to Walker and remaining unsold; that said property was scant security for said
indebtedness; that said William F. Flagg was insolvent; and
that a large part of said property ivas unoccupied and deteriorating in value. It was therefore decreed that Flagg should
pay to Walker the sum of $25,207.13, with six per cent. interest, and also the costs of suit, on or before the first day of
April, 1881 ; that such payment being made, Walker -should
re-convey all said real estate and personal property by quitclaim deed and cancel and discharge the indebtedness of record;
and that in default of such payment on or before the first of
April, 1881, the title of Walker to all of the real estate and
personal property conveyed to him by Flagg and not already
disposed of should become absoldte, and the title of William F.
Flagg and Maggie R. Flagg be forever barred and foreclosed.
From this decree Maggie R. Flagg and William F. Flagg
-brought this appeal.
_r. 1P. S. Gro88up (M . Leonaid Swet was with him) for
appellants.-I. Walker, in accepting' the conveyance of the real
and personal property of William F. Flagg, became a trustee
for the purpose of managing the property and paying off the
debts that were encumbrances upon said property, as well as
those that were general and floating, and should be held to the
duties and liabilities of such trustee. The trust capacity in
which Walker took the conveyance of the real and personal
property, cannot be defeated by the fact that the evidence of
such trust is merely by parol. A trust can be shown by parol,
except where, by the statute of frauds of a particular State, it

FLAGG v. WALKER.
Argument for Appellants.

is specifically provided that no express trust shall be established
except in writing; but in Illinois, where such a provision of
the statute of frauds exists, it has uniformly been held that the
statute must be pleaded in order to defeat the parol trust
alleged. Zinsie v. Penrose, 2 Scam. 515; Dyer v. MAfartin, 4
Scam. 146; Tareton v. V'iete8, i Gil. 470; Switzer v. Skiles,
3 Gil. 529; Marren v. )i7moa, 27 ]]1.115; Cliamber8 v. Rowe,
36 ill. 171. The agreement of April 12, 1875, constituted a
declaration of trust. Mals~h v. Brennan, 52 Ill. 193. See
also Fast v. .XcPherson,98 Ill. 496; Kingsbury v. Burnsi&e,
58 Ill. 310; Cumberland v. Graves, 9 Barb. 595; Starrv. Starr.
1 Ohio, 321; Jaekson v. ffoore, 6 Cow. 706.-1. The Circuit
Court erred in finding that Walker was not liable for any
damages arising out of the indebtedness of Flagg to Sibley
upon the trust deed for $25,000, and in excluding the master
from inquiring into any damages that Flagg had suffered by
reason of Walker's breach of trust in neglecting to look after
and provide for the interest upon the said trust deed, and in
allowing the Eaid sixy-nine acre tract of land to go to sale
without any personal attention from himself, in consequence
of which the said land was sold for $10,500, when it ought,.if
properly managed, to have brought in the neighborhood of
from $60,000 to $100,000. Litchkield v. TWhite, 3 Sand. Sup.
Ct. 545; S. C. on appeal, 7 N. Y. 438.-ILl The court erred in
decreeing a strict foreclosure of these premises to Walker, thus
cutting off the statutory right of redemption and the benefits
arising from competition at a public sale. The Circuit Court
assumed that tbe conveyance to Walker was "by way of a
mortgage" to secure the advances made by him, and that he
had all the rights of a mortgagee to a strict foreclosure. We
contend that Walker's relation to this land was not solely that
of a mortgagee, and that thig convPyance ought not to be
treated as a mortgage at all. But if the conveyance is treated
as a mortgage, and Walker as entitled to all the rights of a
mortgagee, yet under the facts of this case and the rules of law
governing the foreclosure of inortgages in the State of Illinois,
he was not entitled to a strict foreclosure of the premises. In
the case of Farrellv. Parlier,50 Ill. 274, it was held as follows:

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

"It is only in strong cases which form exceptions that there
could be decreed a strict foreclosure or a sale without redemption, and then only in rare cases, when, perhaps, the
property is of less value than the debt for which it is mortgaged, and the mortgagor is insolvent, and the mortgagee is
willing to take the property in discharge of the debt. But it
is not proper when- there are other encumbrances upon the
property, or creditors, or purchasers of the equity of redemption." H7ollis v. Smith, 9 Bradwell, App. Ill. 109; .Jiller v.
Davis, 5 Bradwell, App. Ill. 474; -uphy v. Stith, 5 Bradwell,
App. Ill. 562; .Roure v. Coulton, 4 Bradwell, App. Ill. 257;
Boyer v. Boyer, 89 Ill. 447; SUhedon v. Patterson,55 Ill. 507.
A strict foreclosure cannot be sustained, because: First, the
value of the lands securing the debt found due was much greater
than the debt itself. Sgcond, because it was not shown affirmatively by the party asking for such strict foreclosure that
the property securing the mortgage debt is insufficient to pay
the debt. Third, because there were creditors other than
Walker, who had a lien upon this property. Fourth, because
Walker not merely a mortgagee, but stood also in the relation
of a trustee, and the policy of the law does not give a trustee
the extraordinary power of a strict foreclosure. Tennant v.
T'renchard,4 L. R. Oh. App. 537.--V. The court erred in consolidating the amount found to be due to Walker on account
of the advances and expenses in the management of the said
estate, with the amount of the mortgage upon the homestead
of which he had become the owner by purchase from the mortgagee, and decreeing that the whole sum, as an entirety, was
a first lien upon the property other than the homestead, as
well as upon the homestead itself, and granting a strict foreclosure of all the property for such sum.
.Mr.
Jonathan H. Rowell (Afr. A. E. Stevenson was with
him) for appellee.
MP.. JusTIcE WooDs delivered the opinion of the court.

He
recited the facts as above stated, and continued:
The appellants make no objection to that part of the decree

FLAGG v. WALKER.
Opinion of the Court.

which finds the balance due to Walker. It must, therefore, be
accepted as a fact in the case, that the sum so due, over and
above all moneys received by Walker from the property conveyed to him by Flagg, was, on October 4, 1880, $25,207.13.

Nor upon this appeal is there any charge of waste or other
mismanagement by Walker of Flagg's property, except in his
failure to furnish money to pay the accruing interest on the
Sibley debt, and in allowing the property mortgaged to secure
it to be sold at a sacrifice, as is alleged, under the trust deed.
It is, therefore, virtually conceded by the appellants that, in all
other respects, Walker's administration of the trust was honest
and faithful.
But the appellants complain of the decree upon the following grounds:
First. Because it does not hold Walker liable for his breach
of trust in not providing for the.payment of the interest on the
Sibley debt, secured by trust deed upon the "p.sture," and in
allowing it to be brought to sale without competition or any
personal attention from himself, and to be sold for $10,500,
when it ought to have brought from $60,000 to $100,000.
Second. Because it orders'a strict foreclosure, as the appellants call it, of the premises to Walker.
Third. Because it consolidates the advances made and expeuses incurred by Walker in the management of the estate
with the amount of. the mortgage or trust deed upon the
homestead, and debrees a strict foreclosure for the whole sum
upon all the property.
We do fiot think either of these grounds for reversal well
founded. The evidence makes it perfectly clear, that the terms
upon which Walker took the conveyance, as set out in the
writing executed by him on April 12,1875, were assented to by
Flagg and his wife. Neither of them ever objected to the writing, or after its execution expressed the slightest dissent from
its provisions. On the contrary, although both Mr. and Mrs.
Flagg were examined as witnesses, neither of them says that
the writing was not satisfactory to them, or that they did not
accept it as showing the terms upon which the transfer of
Flagg's property v as made to Walker. In fact, the execution

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

of this paper is referred to in the original bill, and made in part
the basis of the relief therein prayed for by Mrs. Flagg; and
her counsel, in their brief, quote it at length, and insist that it
shows the trust character in which Walker accepted the conveyance, and the consideration thereof. Of course Walker is
bound by his written admission of the terms upon which the
property was transferred to him.*
By this writing Walker agreed to pay off all the ascertained
indebtednesq of Flagg, except the Sibley debt, and as to that
'he was only to pay so much of it as could be made out of a
sale of the lands mortgaged to secure it. Walker did in fact
pay off all the other indebtedness of Flagg. The complaint
made against him is, that he did not furnish money to pay the
Sibley debt or sufficient to keep down the interest, But made
default in the payment of interest, and thus allowed the
property to be sacrificed at a forced sale.
It must be conceded that in accepting the conveyance of the
property Walker became a trustee to manage the property and
pay off the debts of Flagg according to the terins 6f the trust,
and should be held liable for a faithful discharge of his trust.
But this liability was imposed upon him on the condition and
with the understanding"that he was to be allowed the undis.turbed possession and management of the property transferred
to him, and reception of the rents and profits,, which the testimony shows exceeded $3,000 per annum. It was to give him
this undisturbed possession and control that the transfer of the
property was made to him.
The evidence shows that Walker, after the conveyance to

him, did furnish money sufficient to pay off the interest for six
months due on the Sibley debt. It also shows that Flagg, having been absent from home for five or six weeki in. the spring
of 1875, returned with greatly improved health, in the latter
part of April. He at once claimed as his own all the property
which he had conveyed or transferred to Walker. He stopped
the repairs which Walker had begun on the tenement houses,
drove off the workmen, refused to recognize DuBois, the agent
appointed by Walker to take care of the property and collect
the rents, and before the first of August he had resumed pos-

FLAGG v. WALKER.
Opinion of the Court.

session of all the property he had conveyed and delivered to
Walker, both real and personal, and from that time on until
the filing of the original bill on September 25, 1878, had collected and enjoyeA all the rents and profits of the real estate
except of such part as Flagg and wife had undertaken to sell
and dispose of, or such as had been sold under mortgage or
other encumbrances. In shoA, within less than five months
after Flagg had transferred his property to Walker and put him
in possession thereof, and after Walker had paid a large sum
upon Flagg's indebtedness, the latter repudiated, as far as he
could, the transfer of the property, and resumed possession of it
as if iio conveyance thereof had beenmade. Singe that time he
had, with Walker's consent, sold and disposed of a large part of
the property conveyed to Walker and appropriated the proceeds,and, until the date of the final decree, he had ejijoyed and
managed the residue without interference from Walker or his
agents. By the tacit consent of Walker .the management of
the property was recommitted to Flagg; he was allowed the
undisturbed control of it; he was permitted to contract for the
sale of a large part of the trust property,- and Walker made
deeds therefor whenever requested by Flagg, until only sufficient was left to afford'what the Circuit Court found to be but
a scant security for Walker's advances.
It was after Flagg had himself in this manner interfered
with the execution of his trust by Walker, and, in effect, had
released Walker from all duty as trustee, that he called upon
the latter to provide, m6ney to pay another instalment of
interest on-the Sibley debt. This Walker declined to do; but,
at Flagg's request, he executed a conveyance of a lot, part of
the property transferred to him, and out of the proceeds Flagg
paid one instalment of the interest due on the Sibley debt.
It was in November, 1876, about sixteen months after Flagg
had resumed possession of his property and undertaken its
management, and was in receipt of its rents and profits, that
the "pasture" was sold by Weed, the trustee, at public sale,
for default in the payment of interest due on the Sibley debt.
It is clear that under the declaration of trust of April 12,
1875, Walker was not'bound to advance, out of his own means,
voL. cr-48

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

money to pay the .principal or interest on the Sibley debt. He
was only bound to apply the rents and profits to the satisfaction of interest. Upon what ground, therefore, any just complaint can be made against him for not keeping down the interest, or paying the principal of the debt after Flagg had
resumed the possession and management of his property, and
was receiving its rents and profits, it is not easy to see. But if
Walker had agreed to advance money out of his own means to
keep down the interest, the conduct of*Flagg in disregarding
.his conveyance to Walker, and in resuming possession of the
property, would have released Walker from his engagement.
We do not, therefore, find it necessary to examine thd question whether the property was sold at a sacrifice or not. There
is great conflict in the testimony on this subject; but, as Walker,
under the circumstances which we have stated, was under no
obligation to carry out an agreement which Flagg had repudiated and made impossible of performance, that question is
immaterial. Walker was not liable for any loss, if there was a
loss resulting from the sale of the property covered by the trust
deed to secure the -Sibley debt. The proceeds of the property
by which the debt was secured have been applied to its payment, and that is all that Walker agreed, in any event, should
be done.
The next ground upon which the decree of the Circuit Court
is complained of is that the court decreed "a strict foreclosure
of the property to Walker, thus cutting off the statutory right
of redemption, and also cutting off the benefits of a public
sale."
. The contentibn of appellants' council is that if Walker is to
be considered as a mortgagee, and entitled to the rights of a
mortgagee, the court should have decreed a sale, and not a
strict foreclosure.
The provisions of, the statute law of Illinois on which this
assignment of error is based are as follows:.
Rev. Stat. ch. 7, ยง 16: "When any real estate is sold by
virtue of an execution, judgment, or decree of foreclosure of
mortgage, or enforcement of mechanic's lien, or vendor's lien,
or for the .payment of money, it shall be the duty of the sheriff,

FLAGG v. WALKER.
Opinion of the Court.

master in chancery or other officer, instead of executing a deed
for the premises sold, to give to the purchaser a certificate describing the premises purchased by him, showing the amount
paid therefor, or, if purchased by the person in whose favor the
execution'or decree is, the amount of his bid, the time when the
purchaser will be entitled to a deed, unless the premises shall
be redeemed, as provided in this act."
ยง 18 provides, in substance, that any defendant, his heirs,
administrators, or assigns, or any person interested in the
premises under the defendant, may redeem the property so sold
by paying to the purchaser, or the officer who sold the same,
for the benefit of the purchaser, the sum of money for which
the premises were bid off, with interest from the time of sale,
and upon such payment the sale and certificate shall be void.
It will be observed that it is only in the case where the court
orders a sale that there is any right of redemption. So that
this assignment of error is resolved into the contention, that it
was the duty of the court to order a sale, so as to gite the
plaintiff a chance to redeem.
But it 1s been repeatedly held by the Supreme Court of
Illinois that the courts of that State may under certain circumstances decree a strict foreclosure. Johnson v. Donnell, 15 Ill.
97; Wilon v. Gei8ser, 19 Ill. 49; Teiner v. Heintz, 17 Ill. 259;
Stephens v. Bicknell, 27 Ill. 444; Farrell v. Parlier,50 Ill.
274; Boyer v. Boyer, 89 Ill.' 447. A mortgagor, or other
creditor, has not, therefore, in every case the right to insist
that the court shall order a sale.
It is settled by the decisions of that court, that when the
property is of less value than the debt for which it is mortgaged, and the mortgagor is insolvent, and the mortgagee is
willing to take the property in discharge of. the debt, the court
is justified in decreeing a strict foreclosure, unless there are
other encumbrancers, purchasers of the equity of redemp#on,
or creditors to object.
The evidence satisfies us that a public sale for, cash of the
trust property now remaining undisposed of wou I fall short
of paying the advances of Walker, which now am. mt to near
$30,000, and that Flagg is insolvent. He does not appear to

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

be the owner of any assets, and Sibley has an unsatisfied judgmenty against him for $18,685.22, with interest from February
8, 1878. Flagg is under no personal liability.to Walker for
the a:dvances made by the latter, and if Walker gets title to
the property in question under the decree of the Circuit Court,
he is entitled to no other relief against Flagg. The property
satisfies his demand. There are no other eneumbrancers, and
no purchasers of the equity of redemption, and Sibley is the
only creditor, and he, although a party to the decree of the
Circuit Court, has not appealed. This is, therefore, a case
where, if the suit was for the foreclosure of a mortgage, the
court might, according to the local law, decree a strict foreclosure.
But there is no mortgage in this case, and this suit is not
brought for the foreclosure of a mortgage, or other lien, or to
enforce, the payment of money by sale. The original bill filed
by Mrs. Flagg was for the settlement of a trust and the redemption of real estate in the hands of the trustee from liens
alleged to be in the nature of a mortgage for money. advanced
by him for the purpose of the trust. The claim of the bill was,
that although the defendant Walker had advanced money to
pay th6 debt of Flagg, which was a lien upon the property
held by him in trust, yet he had neglected his trust and wasted
the trust estate, and that the money lost to the trust property
by his neglect and waste should be charged against the moneys
advanced by him, and that upon a just and fair settlement
there would be nothing due the trustee for his advances, and
the prayer was for a reconveyance by the trustee.
The cross-bill of Walker averred that the conveyance by
Flagg to him was absolute, and prayed that it might be confirmed, and his right to the peaceable and quiet enjoyment
established; but if the court should be of opinion that his title
to the property was to be considered a mortgage, that the
amount due him from Flagg might be declared a lien thereon,
and if the sum so due was not paid within a day to be fixed by
the court, The conveyance already made to him 6f the property
should be declared absolute.
In view of the declaration of trust made by Walker on April

FLAGG v. WALKER.
Opinion of the Court.

12, 1875, it is clear that the transaction between Flagg and
Walker was not a mortgage. A mortgage is a deed whereby
one grants to another lands, upon condition that if the mortgagor shall pay a certain sum of money, or do some other act
therein specified, at a day certain, the grant shall be void.
Conardv. AtZanti Insturance Co., 1 Pet. 386; -Aontgomery v.
Bruere, 1 Southard, 260, 268; Erskine v. Townsend, 2 Mass.
493, 495; Lund v. Lund, 1 N. I. 39, 41. In this case there
was a conveyance by Flagg to Walker of certain property to
be administered and sold by the latter, and in consideration of
the-conveyance Walker agreed to pay certain specified debts
owing by Flagg, and if, after the payment of the debts there
was any residue resulting from the sale of the property, to pay
Flagg one-half of such residue. The conveyance was made t6
secure neither the payment of any money, nor the performance
of any act, by Flagg. All the money to be paid was to be
paid by Walker; all the acts to be done were to be done by
him. There was no agreement by Flagg'to pay Walker any
money in any event. Flagg never owed Walker any money
by reason of the matters shown by the record in this case, and
never came unde any obligation to him. Walker was to reimburse himself out of the property conveyed to him by Flagg,
and the parties never contemplated a reconveyance by Walker
to Flagg of the property in question. We are not required to
apply to such a transaction the ruled prescribed by the statute
of Illinois for the foreclosure of a mortgage. It is the case of
a trust. The bill was filed for settlement of the trust, and the
question we are to decide is whether, under the circumstances
shown by the testimony, the appellants are entitled, as matte
of equity and right, to have a sale of the premises.
The only interest which remained to Flagg in the property
conveyed by him to Walker was his right to receive one-half
the net proceeds of its sale, after repayment to Walker of all
the moneys advanced by him for Flagg, and the expenses incurred in the administration of the trust. But the decree of
the Circuit Court has in effect given the appellants the entire
net proceeds of the property after the payment of Walker's
advances; for, on the payment by Flagg within six months of

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

the sum found due to Walker, it directs a re-conveyance of all
the trust property remaining unsold. Upon the averments of
their bill they have no right to demand a sale. The property
was conveyed to Walker to dispose of "at pleasure and according to his best judgment," and he was "in all things to be the
sole judge of the time and manner of using and disposing of
said property." The right thus to dispose of it he had bought
and paid for, and he could not be deprived of it unless he was
wrongfully using it to the damage of the Flaggs. There is no
charge in the bill that he has abused that discretion, or that
the neglect to sell at the present time would result in loss-to
the appellants.
The prayer of the original bill was not for a sale, but for a
reconveyance by Walker to the appellants of the trust property still remaining in his name. The decree of the Circuit
Court is in accordance with their prayer, first, however, requiring a repayment to Walker of his advances. It does not,
therefore, lie in the mouths of the appellants to object that the
decree does not order a sale, which they did not pray for, and
which they have not shown themselves to be entitled to demand as a matter of right.
The last objection to the decree of the Circuit Court is, tha.t
it included the amount paid by Walker for the mortgage or
trust deed upon "the homestead," with the advances made by
him and the expenses incurred in the management of the trust,
and decreed a strict foreclosure for the whole sum upon all
the property. The contention of appellants is, that for the
sum paid by Walker for the purchase of this mortgage lhe
should 'be limited for his security to the property covered by
the mortgage" But there is no warrant for this claim in the
declaration of trust of April 12, 1875. The mortgage on'the
homestead was one of the debts which Walker had expressly
agreed to pay, and it was the understanding that he was to be
reimbursed for his advances, not merely out of the mortgaged
premises, but out of the proceeds of all the property 'conveyed to him by Flagg, so far as they might be necessary. For
the purpose of securing Walker the whole property was regarded and treated by the parties as an entirety. The fact

BLAKE v. SAN FRANCISCO.
Syllabus.

that Walker's payment of the mortgage debt took the form of
a purchase of the mortgage lien does not deprive him of that
security.
We find no error in the proceedings and decree of the Circuit Court. But as the time limited by the decree, to wit,
April 1, 1881, for the payment to Walker by W. F. Flagg, or
some one of the defendants to the cross-bill, of the said sum of
$25,207.18, with interest, has passed, we think the time for
such payment should be extended. The appelladts, while they
were litigating their rights with Walker in this court, having
given an appeal bond which' superseded the decree of the
Circuit Court, were not required to make the payment.
We therefore direct that the decree of the Circuit Court be
8o modified a8 to extend the time for the pqyment of the
8um coming to Walker for the period of ix mronth from
thefiling of the mandate of thi8 court in the Circuit Court;
and, a8 8o modified, the decree of the Circuit Court ie
affirmed-

BLAXE v. SAN FRANCISCO.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT c.oVRT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
Argued January 30, 1885.-DecIfed March 2, 1885.

The second claim in the reissued patent of September 18, 1877, to Charles E.
Blake, assignee of the administratrix of Thomas H. Bailey, deceased, for an
improvement in relief valves fcr water cylinders, is for a combination of
an automatic valve with a pinhole and pin to effect the desired object;
and, as automatic valves had been previously used for that purpose in
other combinations, it is ot infringed by a combination of such a valve
with a screw, sleeve or cap toeffect the same objects.
The adaptation of an automatic valve, a device known and in use before the
plaintiff's patent, to a steam fire engine, is not such invention as will sustain
a patent.
Where the public has acquired the right to use a machine or device for a particular purpose, it has the right to use it for all like purposes to which it
can be applied, unless a new and different result is obtained by a new application of it.

