ACKLEY SCHOOL DISTRICT v. HALL.
Statement of Facts.

cation of the rule nuatin empk occurit regf. Zindey v.
.AfiI/er, 6 Pet. 666, 669; Ch8on v. Ohouteau, 13 Wall. 92.

Judgment afflirmed.

ACKLEY SCHOOL DISTRICT v. HALL.
IN ERROR TO TM CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITE

STATES FOR TM

DISTRICT OF IOWA.
Argued December 2, 3, 1884.-Decided January 19,1885.

A municipal bond, issued under the authority of law, for the payment, at all
events, to a named person or order, a fixed sum of money, at a designated
time therein limited, being indorsed in blank, is a negotiable security within
the law merchant.
Its negotiability is not affected by a provision of the statute under which it was
issued, that it should be "payable at the-pleasure of the district at any time
before due."
Consistently with the act of March 3, 1875, determining the jurisdiction of the
Circuit Courts of the United States, the holder may sue thereon without refere ,ce to the citizenship of any prior holder, and unaffected by the circumstance that the municipality may be entitled to make a defence, based upon
equities between the original parties..
An act of the Legislature of Iowa entitled "An Act to authorize independent
school districts to borrow money and issue bonds therefor, for the purpose
of erecting and completing school houses, legalizing bonds heretofore issued,
and making school orders draw six per cent. interest in certain cases," is not
in violation of the provision in the Constitution of that State, which declares
that "every act shall embrace but one subject and matters properly connected therewith, which subject shall be expressed in the title."

This was a suit to recover principal and interest claimed to
be due the defendant in error, on negotiable bonds issued by
the plaintiff in error.

By an act of 'the General Assembly of the State of Iowa,
approved April 6, 1868, it was provided that independent school
districts should have power an. authority to borrow money for
the purpose of erecting and completing school-houses, "by

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

issuing negotiable bonds of the independent district to run any
period not exceeding ten years, drawing a rate of interest not
exceeding ten per centum, which interest may be paid semiannually; which indebtedness should be binding and obligatory
on the independent school district for the use of which said
loan shall have been made." The act prescribed the mode in
which the school board should submit to the voters of the district the question of issuing bonds, and declared that "if a
majority of the votes cast on that question be in favor of such
loan, then said school board shall issue bonds to the amount
voted,

.

.

.

due not more than ten years after date, and

payable at the pleasure of the district at any time before due,
Which said bonds shall be given in the name of the independent
district issuing them, and shall be signed by the president of
the board and delivered to the treasurer, taking his receipt
therefor, who shall negotiate said bonds at not less than their
par value, and countersign the same when negotiated."
With those statutes in force there were issued in the name of
the plaintiff in error, certain instruments in the following form:
"No. 1.

$500.00.

Independent School District, Ackley, Hardin County, Iowa.
The Independent School district of Ackley, Hardin County,
Iowa, promises to pay to Foster Brothers, or order, at the Hardin
County Bank, at Eldora, Iowa, on the 1st day of May, 1872,
five hundred dollars for value received, with interest at the rate
of ten per cent. per annum, said interest payable semi-annually,
on the 1st day of May and November in each year thereafter, at
the Hardin County Bank, at Eldora, on the presentation and sur.
render of the interest coupons hereto attached.
This bond is issued by the board. of school directors by
authority of an election of the voters of said school district,
held on the 23d day of August, 1869, in conformity with the
provisions of chapter.98,' acts12 General Assembly of the State
of Iowa.
In testimony whereof. th6 sa d Inde .endent School District,
by the board of directors thereo.f,-have caused the same to be

ACKLEY SCHOOL DISTRICT

. HALL.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

signed by the president and secretary, this 1st day of :November, 1869.
W. I. ROBERTs1
(Signed)
Pre8idntof the Board of -Director8.
S. S. LocxwooD,
Secretary of the Board of lDrector8.
Countersigned:
F. EGG=RT, TreaurerSc hoo lDitrict."

To each was attached coupons in the following form:
"Treasurer of Independent School District, Ackley, Hardin
County, Iowa, will pay the holder hereof, on the 1st day of
November, 1874, at the Hardin County Bank, at Eldora, Iowa,
twenty-five dollars, for interest due on school-house bond No. 8.
W. H. ROBERTS, Preidet.
(Signed)
S. S. LoomwooD, Secretary."
The defendant in error became the holder of eight of these
obligations, with interest coupons attached, each one being
indorsed in blank by Foster Brothers, the original payees.
This suit was brought by him as plaintiff below to recover the
amount due thereon. He averred himself to be a citizen of
New York; but there was no avermnent in the pleadings as to
the citizenship of the payee. The district made defence upon
various grounds. The case was tried by the court without the
intervention of a jury, and there was a general finding for the
plaintiff, upon which a judgment was entered against the district. To that finding and judgment the defendant excepted
(but without preserving, by bill of exceptions, the evidence
upon which the court acted), and brought this writ oferror.
Yr. GalwUha Parson8 (Mfr. John F. Duhncombe was with
him) for plaintiff in error.-The decision of this case will-depend upon whether these instrimenfs are "promissoy notes,
negotiable by the law merctant," within the meaning of the
act of Mfarch 3, 1875, § 1, 18 Stat. 470, regulating the jurisdic-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

tion of Circuit Courts of the United States. As these instruments were issued under authority derived from a State statute, we assume that the court will follow the decisions of the
State c-burts in construing them. The Code of Iowa makes
the use bf seals no longer necessary, but it continues the distinction between "bonds" and "notes" "negotiable by indorsement or delivery" "according to the custom of merchants;" and it provides that "bonds are assignable by indorsement," "subject to any defence the maker may have
against the assignee." It would involve a reconstruction of
the records of the Iowa courts, and the language of the legal
profession of that State, to describe instruments in this form,
issued by school districts or other municipal corporations in that
State as promissory notes, and it would require a very considerable revision of the judicial law of the State to subject them
to tjie rules, and to extend to their transfer the incidents, to
give to their holders the rights, and to impose upon them the
obligations, of the holders of promissory notes negotiable by
the law merchant. This statute was before the Supreme Court
of Iowa in .MfcPherson v. Foster,43 Iowa, 48; Mosher v. I-ndelendent Shool District of Ackley, 44 Iowa., 122. In the
first of them there was an extended review of the authorities.
And see Clark v. Des 2foines, 19 *Iowa, 199; Chamberlainv.
Burlhngton, 19 Iowa, 395.
-Mr.C. C,NYourse and .Mf'. B. F. Kaufman for defendant
in error.
MR.JUSTicn HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court. He
recited the facts as above stated, and continued:
The jurisdiction of the court below is questioned upon the
ground that the bonds in suit are not promissory notes negotiable by the law merchant, within the meaning of the first section of the act of March 3, 1815, determining the jurisdiction
of the Circuit Courts of the United States; and, consequently,
that the court could not take cognizance of the case unless it
appeared, affirmatively, that a suit could have been brought
thereon by the original payees, Foster Brothers, had they not

ACKLEY SCHOOL DISTRICT v. HALL.
Opinion of the Court.

parted with the bonds. In this proposition we do not concur.
The recital, on their face, that they were issued on the authority of a popular eleQtion, held in conformity with a local statute, does not take from them the qualities and incidents of
commercial securities. Indeed, the statute evidently contemplated that the bonds issued under its provisions should be
negotiable instruments that would do the work of money in
financial circles. They are described as "negotiable bonds'"
to be used for the purpose of borrowing money to be applie,1
in the erectibn and completion of school-houses for the district.
Its treasurer was directed to negotiate them at not less than
their par value, and purchasers were assured by the statute that
the indebtedness so incurred "shall be binding and obligatory
on the independent school district, for the use of which said
loan shall have been made." And this special enactment is in
accord with the general law of Iowa; for, by the code of that
State, "notes in writing, made and signed by any person,
promising to pay to another person or his order or bearer, or
to bearer only, any sum of money, are negotiable by indorsement or delivery in the same manner as inland bills of exchange, according to the custom of merchants;" while the
transfer of "bonds, bills, and all instruments in writing, by
which the maker promises to pay to another, without words
of negotiability, a sum of money," is declared to be subject to
any defence or counterclaim which the maker or debtor had
against any assignor thereof before notice of assignment; thus,
showing that, equally in respect of negotiable promisscry notes
and negotiable bonds, the rights of, the parties are determinable by the law merchant. Iowa Code of 1873, §§ 2082, 2083,
2084.
These instruments, although described in the Iowa statute
as bonds, have every characteristic of negotiable promissory
notes. They are promises in writing to pay, at all events, a
fixed sum of money, at a designated time therein limited, to
named persons or their order. Upon being indorsed in blank
by the original payees, the title passes by mere delivery, precisely as it would had they been made payable to a named
person or bearer. After such indorsement, the obligation to

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.

Opinion of the Court.

pay is to the holder. The decisiops of this court are numerous
to the effect that municipal bonds, in the customary form, payable to bearer, are commercial securities, possessing the same
qualities and incidents that belong to what are, strictly, prom.
issory notes negotiable by the law merchant. There is no reason why such bonds, issued under the authority of law, and
made payable to a named person, or order, should not, after
being indorsed in blank, be treated by the courts as having
like qualities and incidents. That they are so regarded by the
commercial world cannot be doubted. .Aanufaeturing Co. v.
Bradley, 106 U. S. 180.
But it is contended that the word "negotiable," in the Iowa
statute, is qualified by that clause, in the same eiactment,
which provides that bonds issued under it shall be "payable .at
the pleasure of the district at any time before due." These
words were not incorporated into the bond. But if the holder
took, subject to that provision, as we think he did, it is clear
that this option of the district to discharge the debt, in advance
of its maturity, did not affect the complete negotiability of the
bonds; for by their terms, they were payable at a time which
must certainly arrive; the holder could not exact payment before the day fixed in the bonds; the debtor incurred no legal
liability for non-payment until that day passed. The authorities baring upon this question are cited in Byles on Bills,
Sharswood's Ed., chap. 7; 1 Daniel Negotiable Instruments,
43, et se. ; Chitty on Bills, 525, et seq.
In School D qtsrict v. Stone, 106 U. S. 183, it was held, in
reference to similar bonds issued by another independent school
district, in the same county, that their recitals were not sufficiently comprehensive to cut off a defence resting upon the
ground that the bonds there in suit were in excess of the amount
limited by the State Constitution, 4nd consequently invalid.
Applying that decision to the present case, counsel for the district insist that, as these bonds may be open to such a defence
as was made in School Disticv v. Stone, they cannot be deemed
negotiable by the law merchant; in other words, that the
negotiability of the instrument ceases, whenever the maker is
permitted, as against a bona,,fde holder for value, to establish a

ACKLEY SCHOOL DISTRICT v. HALL.
Opini6n of the Court.

defence based upon equities between the original parties. But
suqh is not the test prescribed by the statute defining the jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts of the United States. If a
promissory note is expressed in words of negotiability, the
right of the holder of the legal title to invoke the jurisdiction
of the proper Circuit Court of the United States is not affected
by the citizenship of any prior holder, or by the circumstance
that the party sued asserts, or is able to make out, a valid
defence to the action.
The assignments of error present another question that
deserves ceonsiileration. The Constitution of Iowa provides that
"every act shall embrace but one subject and matters properly
connected therewith, which subject shall be expressed in the
title. But if any subject shall be embraced in an act which
shall not'be expressed in the title, such act shall be void only
as to so much thereof as shall not be expressed in the title."
The title of the statute under which those bonds were issued is
"An Act to authorize independent school districts to borrow
money and issue bonds therefor, for the purpose of erecting
and completing school-houses, legalizing bonds heretofore issued, and making school orders draw six per cent. interest in
certain cases." The act contains six sections, the fourth providing that "all school orders shall draw six per cent. interest
after having been presented to the treasurer of the district, and
not paid for want of funds, which fact shall be indorsed upon
the order by the treasurer." As there are two kinds of school
districts in Iowa, "district township" and "independent district,"1-the latter carved out of the former-it is contended
that the title to the act in question embraces two subjects; one,
relating to matters in which independent school districts alone
are concerned; and the other, to matters in which the township
district and independent districts are concerned; that whether
school orders, which may be issued for many purposes, by districts of either kind, should bear interest or not is wholly foreign
to the borrowing of money to build school-houses in independent
districts. Iowa Code of 1873, ch. 9, title 12.
We are not referred to any adjudication by the Supreme
Court of Iowa which sustains the point here made. On the

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

the Supreme Court of the Territory. In his petition therefor
he stated that he was then imprisoned and in the actual custody of the United States marshal for the Territory at the
penitentiary in the' county of Salt Lake. He, also, averred
that, upon the denial of bail by the court in which he was
tried, "he was remanded to the custody of said United States
marshal, who from thenceforth has imprisoned and still imprisons him" under said order of commitment, which "is the sole
and only cause and authority" for his "detention and imprisonment ;" that "his said imprisonment is illegal" in that "he
has been and is able and now offers to give bail pending his appeal in such sum as the court may reasonably determine;" and
that, "as a matter of right, and in the sound exercise of a legal
discretion, the petitioner is entitled to bail pending the hearing
and determination of said appeal."
The Supreme Court of the Territory overruled the application for bail, and remanded the petitioner to the custody of
the marshal. From that order the present appeal was prosecuted.
The statutes of Utah regulating bail are printed in thie margfn.*

* Laws of Utah, 1878, Title VIII.
SEc. 358. Either party in a criminal action, may appeal to the Supreme
Court on questions of law alone, as prescribed in this chapter.
SEC. 360. An appeal may be taken by the defendant:
1. From a final judgment of conviction;
2. From an order denying a motion for a new trial;
3. From an order made after judgment, affecting the substantial rights of
the party.
SEc. 362. An appeal from a judgment must be taken within one year after
its rendition, and from an order within sixty days after it is made.
SEC. 363. An appeal is taken by filing with the clerk of the court in which
the judgment or order appealed from is entered or filed, a notice stating the
appeal from the same, and serving a copy thereof upon the attorney of the adverse party.
SEC. 366. An appeal to the Supreme Court from a judgment of conviction
stays the execution of the judgment,-upon filing with the clerk of the court
in which the conviction was had, a certificate of the judge of such court, or
of a justice of the Supreme Court, that in his opinion there is probably cause
for the appeal, but not otherwise.

