MARKET COMPANY v. KELLY.

199

Syllabus.

Concession, survey and grant recited in its preamble, and to
release to the assignee of such claim the remaining title (if any
such there was) of the United States. And those who purchased,
under the proceedings referred to, were assignees within the
meaning of the act. There was no purpose to disturb their title
or possession. On the contrary, the sole object of this legislation, so -far as it may be ascertained from the debates in Congress, was to assure those who thus acquired possession, whether
by contract or by operation of law, that they would not be disturbed by any assertion of claim upon the paxt of the United
States. It originated with the representatives in Congress from
Missouri, whose avowed purpose was to protect the interests of
their immediate constituents. The necessity of this act arose
from a then recent opinion of the Commissioner of the General
Land Office, that the legal title to the land within the Austin
claim was still in the United States. In order to quiet the
fears of those "who have been in possession for half a century,
claiming the land adversely against everybody, as well as the
United States," the act of 1874 was passed. It had no other object. Cong Rec., Vol. 2, Pt. 1, 43d Cong., ist Sess. 1874, pp.
716, 910.

There is no error in the record, and

T ejugmene i8a
qf

ed.

NORTHERN LIBERTY MARKET C03PANY v. KELLY.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME 0ODRT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUIMIA.
Submitted January 5, 188.-Decided January 19, 1885.

A market-house company, incorporated for twenty years, with power to purchase, hold and convey any real or personal estate necessary to enable it to
carry on its business, built a market house on land owned by it in fee
simple, and sold by public auction leases for ninety-nine years. renewable
forever, of stalls therein at a specified rent. The highest bidder for one of
the stalls gave the corporation several promissory notes in part payment for
the option of that stall, received such a lease, and took and kept possession of

the stall ; and afterwards gave it a note for a less sum, in compromise of

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.
the original notes, and upon express agreement, that if this note should not
be paid at maturity, the corporation might surrender it to the maker, and
thereupon the cause of action on those notes should revive: Held, That the
new note was upon a sufficient legal consideration; and that the corporation, holding and suing upon all the notes, could recover upon this
note only.

This was a writ of error to reverse a judgment for the defendant in an action brought on April 4, 1884, by a corporation
formed for the purpose of erecting. a market-house in the city
of Washington and carrying on a marketing business.there,
upon twenty promissory notes made by him to the plaintiff,
dated January 1, 1875, for $171.05 each, two payable in fiftytwo months, two in fifty-eight months, two in sixty-four
months, and two at the end of each succeeding six months, the
last two being payable in one hundred and six months after
date, and all bearing interest at the yearly rate of eight per
cent.; also upon a promissory note made by the defendant,
dated August 5, 1881, for $1881.60, payable in ninety days
after date; and upon a promissory note, dated March 11, 1881,
for $394.08, made by one William S. Cross, and guaranteed by
the defendant, and payable in sixty days after date; each of
the last two notes bearing interest at the yearly rate of six
per cent.
The judgment was rendered upon a case stated by the parties,
in substance as follows: The plaintiff is and since M ay 18,
1874, has been a corporation, duly incorporated under the
general incorporation act in force in the District of Columbia,
]Rev. Stat. D. C. ยง 553-593,.by which it became a corporation
for twenty years, and capable of suing and being sued, and of
taking, holding and conveying any reai and personal estate
necessary to enable it to carry on its business. On January 1,
1875, being the owner in fee of a parcel of land in the city of
Washington, and having built a market-house thereon, it offered
for sale by public auction leases for ninety-nine years, renewable forever, of the stalls in the market-house, at a specified
rent, the highest bidder being entitled to his option of the
stalls., At the sale the defendant was the highest bidder for a
stall, and made and delivered to the plaintiff, in part payment

MARKET COMPANY v. KELLY.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

of the purchase money for the option of that stall, the twenty
notes for $171.05 each, and afterwards received from the plaintiff such a lease of that stall, and took and has since retained
possession of the stall under the lease. On August 5,1881, the
defendant, with full knowledge of the foregoing facts, including
the fact that by the terms of incorporation the plaintiff's corporate existence was limited to twenty years, made and delivered to the plahrtiff the note for $1881.60, in compromise of
the twenty original notes, and upon express agreement that, if
this note should not be promptly paid at maturity, the plaintiff
might surrender it to the defendant, and thereupon the plaintiff's cause of action upon the original notes should revive.
The note for $394.08 was made by Cross and guaranteed by
the defendant under like circumstances, and in consideration
of the surrender of two other notes similar in amount and consideration to the twenty notes before mentioned. All the notes
in suit remain unpaid, otherwise than by the giving of the note
for $1881.60, and all are still.held by the plaintiff.
.Mr. R. T. Merrick and Xr. T J Darlngton,for plaintiff in
error.
.3.7,. Jame& G. Payne for defendant in error.-The corporate existence of the company ,being limited to twenty
years, the company was without power to make a lease
for ninety-nine years with renewals. There was an entire failure of the consideration for which the original notes were
given, the undertaking of the plaintiff being absolutely void.
ThArnm v. Railroad Co., 101 U. S. 71. -This disposes of the
claim on the original notes. As to the note alleged to have
been given in compromise, it was given and accepted upon the
express agreement that if not promptly paid at maturity the
plaintiff might surrender it to the defendant, and its cause of
action upon the, original notes should thereupon immediately
revive. The plaintiff sues upon the original cause of action.
This disposes of that claim. If it be claimed that the new
note was a renewal of the original debt, we answer that as a
renewal it would be open to the same objection of want of

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

legal consideration. fMrrijeldv. Baker, 9 Allen, 29, 34; Pearce
v. Railr',ad Co., 21 How. 441. The same considerations apply
to the notes upon which the defendant is sued as guarantor.
MR. JUSTICE GRA-Y delivered the opinion of the court. He
recited the facts as above stated, and continued:
The plaintiff insists that the original notes were valid, because a corporation, empowered to hold and convey real estate for the objects of its incorporation, may convey an estate
in fee or any less estate in lands which it has purchased, and
may therefore make a valid lease of them for any term of
years, though extending beyond the limit of its corporate exitence. But it is unnecessary to express a definitive opinion upon
that point, because it is agreed in the case stated that the defendant gave, in compromise of the original twenty notes for
$171.05 each, the new note for $1881.60. -If the plaintiff had
exceeded its corporate powers in making the original contract,
yet it had authority to compromise and settle all claims by or
against it under that contract. AfMorville v. American Tract
Society, 123 Mass. 129. The compromise of the disputed claim
on the original notes was a legal and sufficient consideration
for the new note. Cook v. TFright, 1 B. & S. 559; Tuttle v.
Tuttle, 12 Met. 551 ; Riggs v. Hawley, 116 Mass. 596. By the
terms of the agreement of compromise, the plaintiff's cause of
action on the original notes was not to revive, in case of the
new note not being paid at maturity, except upon the surrender of this note to the defendant. The plaintiff, not having
surrendered it, but holding and suing upon it as well as upon
thfe oriinal notes, has not performed the condition on which
the revival of the right of action on the original notes depended.
It follows, that the plaintiff cannot recover in this action on
the original notes for $171.05 each, but is entitled to recover on
the new note for $1881.60, and also, for like reasons, on the note
for $394.08, made by Cross and guaranteed by the defendant.
eludgment reversed, and case remanded witA directions to
enter judgmentfor the plaintif on the tw ty-irst and
twenty-second counts.

