BOYER v. BOYER.
Syllabus.

and accepted. Early in the present term that motion was
overruled.
The docketing of the cause by the defendant in'error in advance of the return day of the writ did not prevent the plaintiff in error from doing what was necessary while the writ was
in life to give it full effect. The present motion to dismiss is,
therefore, overruled.
The original rule allowing a motion to affirm to be united
with a motion to dismiss was promulgated May 8, 1876, 91 U.
S. vii., and in Whitney v. Cook, 99 U. S. 607, decided during
the October Term, 1878, it was ruled that the motion to affirm
could not be entertained unless there appeared on the record at
least some color of right to a dismissal. This practice has been
steadily adhered to ever since, and, in our opinion, prevents our
entertaining the motion to affirm in this case. That motion is
consequently
Denied.
In Gaines v. Corbin and Another, there is a motion to dismiss, with which is united a motion to affirm.
These motions are denied. There is not sufficient color of
right to a dismissal to make it proper for us to entertain a
motion to affirm.

BOYER v. BOYER & Others, County Commissioners.
IN

ERROR

TO THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE

STATE

OF PENNSYL-

VANIA.
Submitted January 9, 18S.-Decided March 2, 1885.

The laws of Pennsylvania exempted from local taxation, for county purposes,
railroad securities; shares of stock held by stockholders in corporations
which were liable to pay certain taxes to the State; mortgages; judgments;
recognizances; moneys due on contracts for sale of real estate ; and loans
by corporations, which were taxable for State purposes, when the State
tax should be paid.
The pleadings in this case admitted, in detail,
large amounts of exempted property urder these heads in the State: Held.
That, under these circumstances, this constituted a discrimination in favor

VoL. c:;nx--44

OCT(6BER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

of other 'moneyed capital against capital invested in shares in national
banks, which was inconsistent with the provision in ยง 5219 Rev. Stat., that
the taxation by State authority of national bank shares shall not be at a'
greater rate than is assessed upon other moneyed capital in the bands of

individual citizens of such State.
The previous decisions of this court respecting State and local taxation of
shares in national banks considered and reviewed.
The former decisions of this court do not sustain the proposition that national
bank shares may be subjected, under the authority of the State, to local
taxation where a very material part, relatively, of other mo4eyed capital
in the hands of individual citizens within the same jurisdiction or taxing
district is exempted from such taxation.
While exact uniformity or equality of taxation cannot be expected under any
system, capital invested in national biank shares was ntended by Congress
to be placed upon the same footing of substantial equality in respect of
taxation by State authority as the State establishes for other' moneyed capital in the hands of individual citizens, however invested, whether in State
bank shares or otherwise.

Bill in equity commenced and tried in the State courts of
Pennsylvania to prevent the collection of a tax levied under an
assessment alleged to be in violation of the statutes of the
United, States. The facts which raise the federal question are
stated in the opinion of the court.
Y,. Car'Zes W. WeZ8/ for plaintiff in error.
2frB. TV. J. V hteoue for defendants in error.
MR. JusTIcE ]MmLiA, delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff in error brought this suit in a State court of
Pennsylvania for an injunction restraining the commissiones
of Schuylkill County from levying a county tax for the year
1883 upon certain shares in the Pennsylvania National Bankan association organized under the National Banking Act:
The suit proceeds upon the ground that such levy violates the
act of Congress prescribing conditions upon State taxation"of
national bank shares, in this that "other moneyed capital in
the hands of individual citizeiis" of that county is exempted,
by the laws of Pennsylvania, from such taxation. A demurrer
to the bill was sustained, and the suit was dismissed. 'Upon
appeal -o the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania that judgment

BOYER v. BOYER.
Opinion of the Court.

was affirmed, on the ground that the laws of the State, under
which the defendants sought to justify the taxation, were not
repugnant to the act of Congress.
State taxation of national bank shares was permitted by the
act of Congress of June 3, 1864, 13 Stat. 111, ch. 106, ยง 41, subject to the restriction that it should not be at a greater rate
than that imposed upon other moneyed capital in the hands of
individual citizens of the same State. But that section contained a proviso to the effect "that the tax so imposed, under
the laws of any State, upon the shares of any of the associations authorized by this act, shall not exceed the rate imposed
upon the shares in any of the banks organized under the authority of the State where such association is located." The
case of Lionberger v. Rouse, 9 Wall. 468, arose under that act.
The question there was whether shares in anational bank wereexempt from State taxation merely because two State banks
of issue, organized before the national banking act was passed,
and which held a very inconsiderable portion of the banking
capital of the State, had by their charter the right to pay a
certain' per cent. on the amount of their capital stock in full of
all State bonus and taxes-an amount less than that imposed
upon national bank shares. - The shares of other associations
in the State, having the privileges of banking, except the
power to emit bills, were taxed like the shares in national
banks. It was hold that Congresa meant, by reference in the
act of 1864 to taxation of State bank shares, to require, as a
condition to taxation by the State of shares in national banks,
that she should, unless restrained by valid contract, tax in like
manner the shares of banks of issue of her own creation. There
was no question in that case of discrirmination against capital
invested in national bank shares in favor of moneyed caplt
which was invested otherwise than in bank stock.
But the act of 1864 was so far modified by that of February
10, 1868, 15 Stat. 34, ch. 7,that the validity of such State taxation was thereafter to be determined by the inquiry, whether
it was at a greater rate than was assessed ,upon other moneyed
capital in the hands of individual citizens, and not necessarily
by a comparison with the particular rate imposed upon shares

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

in State banks. The'effect, if not the, object, of the latter act
was- to preclude the possibility of any such'interpretation of
the act of Congress as would justify States, while imposing the
same taxation upon national bank shares as upon shares in
State banks, from discriminating against national bank shares,
in favor of moneyed .capital not invested in State bank stock.
At any rate; the acts of Congress do not now permit any such
discrimination. ยง 5219 of the Revisbd Statutes is as follows:
"1Nothing herein shall prevent all the shares in any association from being included in the valuation of the personal
property of the. owner or holder of such shares, in assessing
taxes imposed by authority of the State within which the
association is located; but the legislature of each State may
determine and direct the manner and place of taxing all the
shares of national banking associations located within the
State, subject only to the two restrictions, that the taxation shall
not be at a greater rate than is assessed upon other moneyed
capital in the hands of individual citizens of such State, and
that the shares of any national banking association, owned by
non-residents of any State, shall be taxed in the city or county
where the bank is located, ahd not elsewhere. Nothing herein
shall be construed to exempt the real property of associations
fropn either State, county, or municipal taxes to the same extent, according to its value, as other real property is taxed."
'Whether the proposed taxation for coumty purposes of the
plaintiff's shares of national bank stock is at a greater rate than.
is assessed, for like purposes, on other moneyed capital in the
hands of individual citizens, is the single question upon which
depends the affirmance or reversal of the judgment.
Before examining the statutes of Pennsylvania upon the subject of taxation, it will be well to ascertain how far the decisions of this court have fixed the true meaning of the words
"at a greater rate than is assessed upon other moneyed capital
in the hands of individual citizens of such State."
The Supreme Court of Pennsylvania is of opinion that the
commissioners are fully. sustained by the decision in He bur
v. The" Sekool Diretors, 23 Wall. 480. In that case, the
question-was, whether the owner of national bank shares, re-

BOYER v. BOYER.
Opinion of the Court.

siding in Cumberland County, Pennsylvania; was exempt from
a local tax by reason of a statutory exemption from all taxation
in that county, except for State purposes, of "mortgages,
judgments, recognizances, and money owing upon articles of
agreement for the sale of real estate," except mortgages,
judgments, and articles of agreement given by corporations.
Laws Penn. 1868, p. 61. The value of such securities (if they
could. all be properly so described), as compared with other
moneyed capital in the hands of individual citizens in that
locality, did not appear in that case. What the court had to
decide, and all that it did decide, was whether the exemption
from local taxation, of mortgages, judgments, recognizances,
and money due upon agreements for the sale of real estate, in
the hands of individuals, was a partial exemption only; that
is, whether it was so substantial in its nature and operation as
to affect the integrity of the general assessment for local purposes. The court, after observing that money at interest was
not the only moneyed capital to which the national banking
act had reference, and that the words "other moneyed capital"
included investments in bank shares and other stocks and
securities, said: "This is a partial exemption only. It was
evidently intended to prevent a double burden by the taxation,
both of property and debts secured upon it. Necessarily, there
may'be other moneyed capital in the locality than such as is
not exempt. Some part of it only is. It could not have been
the intention of Congress to exempt bank shares from taxation
because some moneyed capital was exempt." That case is
authority for the proposition that a 2artial exemption by a
State, for local purposes, of moneyed capital iih the hands of
individual citizens does not, of itself and without reference to
the aggregate amount of moneyed capital not so exempted,
establish the right to a similar exemption in favor of natiopal
bank shares held by persons within the same jurisdiction. But
it is by no means an authority for the broad proposition that
national bank shares may be subjected to local taxation where
a very material part, relatively, of other moneyed capital in the
hands of individual citizens, within the same jurisdiction or taxing district, is exempted from such taxation. Indeed, such an

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

interpretation of the statutes might entirely defeat the purpose
that induced Congress to confine State taxation of national
bank shares within the limit of equality with other moneyed
capital; for, it would enable the States to impose upon capital
invested in such shakes materially greater burdens than those
to which other moneyed capital in individual hands is subjected.
The case of Adam8 v. Nashville, 95 U. S. 19, is also relied
upon to support the judgment below. The question there raised
was whether an alleged exemption from municipal taxation,
under an ordinance of a city, of its interest-bearing bonds,
operated to exempt from like taxation the shares in a national
bank located in the same city. The court held that as the
ordinance had been abrogated by subsequent legislation of
the State, no such exemption existed. However, considering
the question on its merits, it was said that the act of Congress
did not intend "to cut off the. power to exempt particular
kinds of property, if the legislature chose to do so." In illustration of this view reference was made to exemptions of
homesteads, household furniture, school-houses, academies, and
libraries-regulations sustained, as a general rule, iupon grounds
of -policy and humanity, or because the property exempted is
employed foi objects more or less connected with the public
welfare. And it was observed that the discretionary power of
the legislature over such subjects remained as before the act of
1868, the intention of that statute being to protect corporations
formed under its authority from unf'idly discrimination by
the States in the exercise of their taxing power. "That particular persons or particular articles are relieved from taxation is not a matter to which either class can object." It s
scarcely necessary to say that this language leaves untouched
the question as to the power of the State to subject the shares
of national banks to taxation, when a very material portion of
other moneyed capital in the hands of individual citizens and
corporations, is exempted from like taxation.
The court has had occasion to examine the provisions of the
national banking act in several other cases recently determined. People v. Teaver, 100 U. S. 539 ; Peltan v. National
Bank, 101 U. S. 143; Cumming8 v. -Yational Bank, 101 U. S.

BOYER v. BOYER.
Opinion of the Court.
'8or8
v. Stanky, 105 U. S. 305; van8ville Bank v.
153; Supve
Britto, 105 U. S. 323.
From these cases may be deduced certain rules for the construction of that act:
1. That the words "at a greater rate than is ameeed upon
other moneyed capital in the hands of individual citizens"
refer to the entire process of assessment, which, in the case ofnational bank shares, includes both their valuation and the
rate of percentage on such valuation; consequently, that the
act of Congress is violated if, in connection with a fixed percentage applicable to the valuation alike of national bank
shares and of other moneyed investments or capital, the State
law establishes or permits a mode of assessment by which such
shares are valued higher in proportion to their real value than is
other moneyed capital.
2. That a State law which permits individual citizens to deduct their just debts from the valuation of their personal property of every kind, other than national bank shares, or which
permits the tax-payer to deduct from the sum of his creits,
money at interest or other demands to the extent of his bona
ftde indebtedness, leaving the remainder to be taxed, while it
denies the same right of deduction from the cash value of bank
shares, operates to tax the latter at a greater rate than other
moneyed capital.
These decisions show that, in whatever form the question
has arisen, this court has steadily kept in view the intention of
Congress not to permit any substantial discrimination in favor
of moneyed capital, in the hands of individual citizens, Is
against capital invested in the shares of national banks. In
People v. 'Weaver, the court said: "As Congress was conferring a power on the .States which they would not otherwise
have had, to tax these shares,-it undertook to impose a restriction on the exercise of that power, manifestly designed to
prevent taxation which should discriminate against that class
of property as compared with other moneyed capital. In permitting the States to tax these shares it was foreseen that the
States might be disposed to tak the capital invested in these
banks oppressively. This might have been prevented by fixing

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

a limit on the amount. But Congress, with due regard-to the
dignity of the States, and with a desire to interfere only so far
as was necessary to protect the banks from anything beyond
their equal share of the public burdens, said: You may tax the
real estate of the banks as other real estate is taxed, and you
may tax the shares of the bank as the personal property of the
owner, to the same extent you tax other moneyed capital invested in your State. It was conceived that by this qualification of the power of taxation equality would be secured and.
injustice prevented."
We come now to consider whether the laws of Pennsylvania,
undeg which defendants propose to levy a tax for county pur-:
poses, upon the plaintiff's shares of stock, are open to the objection that they violate the principle of equality, which the act
of Congress intended to establish between capital invested in
such shares, and other moneyed capital?
By a law of that State, passed March 31, 1870-iipon which
the defence mainly rests-it is provided, "That all the shares
of national banks, located within this State, and of banks and
savings institutions incorporated by this State, shall be taxable
for State purposes at the rate of three mills [subsequently,
four] per annum upon the -assessed value thereof; and for
county, school, municipal and local purposes at the same rate
as now is or may hereafter be assessed and imposed upon other
moneyed capital in the hands of individual citizens of this State."
Laws of Penn. 1870, p. 42. This act suggests, upon its face, the
inquiry as t6 what. moneyed capital, in the hands of individual
citizens,.is subject o taxation for county and other local purposes; for, such capital, if exempted from local taxation at the
date of the passage of that act, remains exempt, unless the legislature of the State has since subjected it to taxation. Evidently,
in respect of taxation for local purposes, the legislature did not
intend, by the act of 1870, to remove the then existing exemptions, and subject all moneyed capital, of whatever desciption, to such taxation; but only to establish a uniform rate of
local taxation as between capital invested in national bank
shares, and such, and only such, moneyed capital as was then,
or might hereafter be, subjected to taxation.

BOYER v. BOYER.
Opinion of the Court.

To ascertain what moneyed capital w-as at the passage of the
act of 1870, or has since become exempted in Pensylvania
from taxation for county purposes requires an examination of
several statutes commencing with the one passed iii 1844. The
latter subjected to taxation, "for all State and county purposes
whatsoever," the following personal property: mortgages;
money owing by solvent debtors, whether by promissory note,
penal or single bill, bond or judgment; articles of agreement
and accounts bearing interest, except notes or bills for work
and labor done, and bank notes; shares or stock in any bank,
institution or company then or thereafter incorporated by or inpursuance of any law of the State, or of any other. State orgovernment; shares of stock or weekly deposits in unincorporated saving fund institutions; public loans or stocks, except
those issued by the State; money loaned or invested on interest
in any other State. 2 Brightly's Purdon's Dig. 1380; Laws
Penn. 1844, p. 497.
In 1850 shares of stock in State banks, created after the
State banking act of 1850, were, relieved from taxation for
county purposes. Laws Penn. 1852, p. 443; 1 Gran, 35.. And
in 185.4 all bonds or certificates of loan of any railroad company incorporated in the State were declared liable to taxation "for State purposes only." 2 Brightly's Purdon's Dig.
1369, ยง 81.
By an act approved April 12, 1859, it was provided that
thereafter the capital stock of all banks, savings institutions,
and companies whatever of the State, "shall be subject to and
pay a tax into the treasury of the commonWealth annually, at
the rate of one half mill for each one per cent. of dividend
made or declared by such bank, savings institution, or company;" and in case of no such dividend being declared, then
three mills upon a valuation of the capital stock, agreeably to
the above act of 1844. The same act exempted from tax upon
dividends any institution or company (except banks of issue)
then liable for tax on capital stock. It was further declared
that that act should not be so construed as to make building
associations, plank-road or turnpike companies liable for any
tax to the commonwealth, when such companies make or de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

clare no dividends. Laws Pe..n. 1859, p. 529. And by an act
passed January 3, 1868, it was declared that from and after its
passage the shares of stock -held by any stockholder in any institution or company incorporated under the laws of the State,
which in its corporate capacity is liable to, and pays into the
State treasury the tax imposed by the act of April 12, 1859,
"shall not be taxable in the hands of said stockholder personally, for State, county, or local purposes;" sq much of the
act of 1844 as imposed a tax for State or county purposes upon
any stockholder in his individual capacity being repealed in
terms, without relieving such corporations from any tax then
imposed by law, or their real estate from any State, county,
or local tax to which it then was or might thereafter b/, subjected., Laws Penn. 1868, p. 1318.
Then followed the act of 1879, by the third section of which
every incorporated company or association doing business in
Pennsylvania, or having capital employed there in the name of
any other company or corporation-except foreign insurance
companies, banks, and savings institutions-was required to
pay a certain annual tax on Jts capital stock into the State
treasury. Laws Penn. 1879, p. 112.
This brings us to the act of June 10, 1881, whereby mortgages; moneys owing by solvent debtors, whether by promissory note, penal br single bill; bond or judgment; articles of
agreement and accounts bearing interest-except notes or bill.
for work and labor done; obligations to banks for money
loaned; bank notes ; shares of stock in banks, banking or saving
institutions or conipanies, then or thereafter incorporated under
any law of Pennsylvania; public loans or stocks, except those
issued by that State or the United States; money loaned or invested in any other State, and all other moneyed capital in the
hands of individual citizens of that State; are declared " to be,
and are hereby, taxable for State purposes, at the rate. of four
mills on the dollar of the value thereof annually; provided.
that all mortgages, judgments, and recognizances whatsoever,
and all moneys due or owing upon articles of agreement for
the sale of real estate, shall, after the passage of this act, be
exempt from all taxation except for State purposes; provided,

BOYER v. BOYER.
Opinion of the Court.

the provisions of this act shall not apply to building and loan
associations," the money loaned .bythem being subjected to
the same tax as money loaned by individuals. By.the second
section of the same act, all corporations paying interest on a
loan or loans, taxable for State purposes, whether secured by
bond, mortgage, recognizance, or otherwise, are required to report to the auditor-general, annually, the amount of such indebtedness owned by residents of Pennsylvania, and to pay
into the State treasury four mills upon ever r dollax of such indebtedness, such tax to be deducted by the corporation paying
it from the interest on such indebtedness; whereupon, "such
indebtedness, whether secured by bond, mortgage, judgment,
or otherwise, shall be exempt from other taxation in the hands
of the holders thereof." Laws Penn. 1881, p. 99.
Unless we greatly misapprehend the effect of this legislation,
a very large amount of property made subject by the act of
1844 to taxation for both State and county pdrposes, has since
been relieved from the burdens of county taxation; while the
imposition by the act of 1870. upon national bank shares of
local taxation at the same rate -as was at the latter date, or has
been since, imposed upon other moneyed capital in the hands
of individual citizens of the State, leaves such shares subject to
taxation as provided in the act of 1844. The burden of county
taxation, imposed by the latter act, has, at all events, been removed from all bonds or certificates of loan issued by any railroad company incorporated by the State; from shares of stock
in the hands of stockholders of any institution or company of
the State which, in its corporate capacity, is liable to pay a tax
into the State treasury under the act of 1859; from mortgages,
judgments, and recognizances of every kind; from moneys due
or owing upon articles of agreement for the sale of real estate;
from all loans however made by corporations which are taxable
for State purposes when such corporations pay into the State
treasury the required tax on such indebtedness.
As the present case comes before us upon demurrer to the
bill, we have, excepting the allegations of the latter, no means
of determining the value of the capital thus exempted from the
county taxation which is imposed upon capital invested in

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

national bank shares. After referring to the acts of 1870 'and
1881, the bill charges:
"That for the year 1881, as is shown by the public report
and by the books of the auditor-general of Pennsylvania, the
sum of $1,692,938.66 was paid- into the State treasury as tax
upon the capital stock of such corporations by them in their
corporate capacity, which sum of money was paid upon a gross
capital stock of the corporations paying the same, of the value,
approximately stated of 564: millions of dollars.
"That it appears, as is shown by the books and published
report of the secretary of internal affairs for the year 1881,
that the total valuation throughout the State for that year of
'all mortgages, money owing by solvent debtors, whether by
promissory note, penal or single bill, bond or judgment, also all
articles of agreement iind accounts bearing interest, owned or
possessed by any person or persons whatsoever (except notes or
bills for work or labor done, and all obligations given to banks
for money loaned and bank notes), and all public loans or
stocks whatsoever, except those issued by this State or the
United States, and all moneys. loaned or invested on interest in
any other State and all other moneyed capital in the hands of
individual citizens of the State,' amounts to $74,931,765;
"That for the same year, as is shown by the books and published reports of the auditor-general, a tax was paid into the
State treasury upon corporation and municipal loans not probably included in the foregoing sum, upon an aggregate valuation of 851,404,162.50;
"That by the provisions of section I of the act of 10 June,
1881 (P. L. 99), all mortgages, judgments and recognizances
whatsoever, and all moneys due or owing upon articles of
agreement -for the sale of real estate were exempt from all
taxation except for State purposes;
"That the section 2 of said act of 1881, exempts from local
taxation in the hands of the holders thereof, all loans issued by
corporations paying interest thereon, where such corporations
pay, into the State treasury the State tax of four mills on each
dollar thereof, and by act of I May, 1854 (P. L. 535), ' all bonds
or certificates of indebtedness of any railroad company incor-

BOYER v. BOYER.
Opinion of the Court.

porated by this Commonwealth be and the same shall be liable
to taxation for State purposes only;'
"That the total paid-in capital of all the State'banks and
savings institutions in said Commonwealth, other than national
banks, as appears by the books and published reports of the
auditor-general for the year 1881, is $7,161,740.68, while the
total paid-in capital of the national banks located within said
State, in said year, amounted to $5,7,452,051."
The demurrer, of course, admits these allegations of fact to
be true. Their materiality is not affected by the circumstance
that they are stated.to appear, also, upon the book and published reports of the auditor-general and the secretary of internal affairs of Pennsylvania. Upon such facts, and in view
of the revenue laws of the State, it seems difficult to avoid the
conclusion that, in respect of county taxation of national bank
shares, there has been, and is, such a discrimination, in favor
of other moneyed capital against capital invested in such
shares, as is not consistent with the legislation of Congress.
The exemptions in favor of other moneyed capital appear to be
of such a substantial character in' amount as to take the
present case out of the operation of the rule that it is not absolute equality that is contemplated by the act of Congress; a
rule which rests upon the ground, that exact uniformity or
eqality of taxation cannot in.the nature of things be expected
or attained under any system. But as substantial equality is
attainable, and is required by the supreme law of the land, in
respect of State taxation of national bank shares, when the
inequality is so palpable as to show that the discrimination
against capital invested in such shares is serious, the courts
have no discretion but to interfere.
The Suprente Court of Pennsylvania, after referring to Hepburv v. Te School -Directars,cited above, as having involved
the same question that is now presented, and observing that the
exemption is here, as there, only partial, says: "Not only is
some other moneyed capital of a miscellaneous character taxable
for local purposes, but all such capital of the same character as
that which you desire to exempt; that is to say, the shares of
State banks and savings institutions." Again: "The General

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

Assembly has authorized the taxation of the shares of these
banks in no other manner and at no higher rate than other
capital of 'a similar character." If by this language it is
meant that an illegal discrimination against capital invested
in national bank shares cannot exist where no higher rate or
heavier burden of taxation is imposed upon them than upon
capital invested in State bank shares, or in State savings insti.tutions, we have to say that such is not a proper construction
of the act of Congress. Capital invested in national bank shares
was intended to be placed upon the same footing of substantial
equality in respect of taxation by Stdte aothority, as the State
establishes for other moneyed capital in the hands of individual
citizens, however invested, whether in State bank shares or
otherwise. As the act of Congress does not fix a definite limit
as to percentage of value, beyond which the States may not
tax national bank shares, cases will arise in Which it will be
difficult to determine whether the exemption of a particular
part of moneyed capital in individual hands is so serious or
material as to infringe the rule of substantial equality. But
unless we have failed to comprehend the scope and effect of
the taxing laws of Pennsylvania, and unless the allegations of
the bill be untrue, the present case is not of that class.
Our attention is called by counsel for the defendants to the
fact that Pennsylvania derives, probably, her principal revenues
from railroads, and therefore has good reasons to look to her
interests, 'as a Commonwealth, in respect of such improvements. To this fobt he refers the legislation which makes railroad securities liable to taxation for State purposes only, and
exempts them from local taxation. Upon like grounds he defends the exemptions made, in respect of local taxation, in
favor of the bonds and shares of other corporations, that pay
an annual tax into the State treasury. It is quite sufficient, in
respect of such matters, to say that this court has no function
to deal with the *considerations of public policy which control
that Commonwealth in the assessment of property for purposes
of revenue..- We have no duty beyond that of ascertaining the
intention of Congress in its legislation permitting the several
States to tax the shares of institutions organized under national

SOON HING v. CROWLEY.
Syllabus.

authority, for the purpose of providing a national currency
secured by United States bonds. If the principle of substantial equality of taxation under State authority, as between
capital so invested and other moneyed capital in the hands of
Individual citizens however invested, operates to disturb the
peculiar policy of some of the States in respect of revenue
derived from taxation, the remedy therefor is with another
department of the government, and does not belong to this
court.
We are of opinion that upon the allegations of the bill the
defendants should have been put to their answer. The facts
may then disclose a case quite different from that made by the
bill. What we have said relates to the case as now presented.
The judgment must, therefore, be reversed, and the cause remanded for further proceeding8not incon.sitent with this

SOON HING v. CROWLEY.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF OALIFORNIA.
Submitted December 16, 1884.-Decided March 16, 1885.
The decision in Barber v. Connely, ante, 27-that a municipal ordinance
prohibiting from washing and ironing in public laundries and wash-houses
within defined territorial limits, from ten o'clock at night -to six in the
morning, is a police regulation within the competency of a municipality
possessed of ordinary powers-affirmed.
It is no objection to a municipal ordinance prohibiting one kind of business
within certain hours, that it permits other and different kinds of business to
be done within those hours.
Municipal restrictions imposed upon one class of persons engaged in a particular business, which are not imposed upon others engaged in the same business and under like conditions, impair the equal right which all can claim
in the enforcement of the laws.
When the general security and welfare require that a particulai kind of work
should be done at certain times or hours, and an ordinance is made to that
effect, a person engaged in performing that sort of work has no inherent
right to pursue his occupation during the prohibited time.

