OCTOBER TERM,

1884.

Opinion of the Court.

priority over Dorsey E. W. Carter on account of the peculiar
circumstances under which Carusi bought his note from John
E. Carter. That question is not brought up by this appeal, as
neither Qhrusi nor his representatives have been made parties.
As to the distribution between Dorsey E. W. Carter and Mrs.
Burr,-the counsel for the appellant admits in his brief that the
pro rata rule was followed by the general term, and no preference given to Mrs. Burr as the holder of the note first falling
due. This certainly is all that Carter can ask.
"The decree at the general term is

Aff~md.

GREGORY & Others v. HARTLEY & Another.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEBRASKA.
Submitted December 9, 1884.-Decided March 16, 1885.

It is again decided that the words "term at which said cause could be first
tried and before the trial thereof," act of March 3, 1875. ch. 137, ยง 3, 18
Stat. 471, mean the first term at which the cause is in law triable: i. e. in
which it would stand for trial, if the parties had taken the usual stes as
to pleadings and'other preparations. Bab itt v. Clark, 103 U. S. 606, and
.RdIman Paace Car Co. v. Sieck, ante, 87, re-affirmed.
It is again decided that there cannot be a removal of a cause under that act,
after hearing on demurrer to a complaint on the ground that it does not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. Alley v. Nott, 111 U.
S. 472, and Scharf v. Levy, 112 U. S. 711. affirmed.

This was a motion to dismiss. The facts which make the
case are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. F. J. Lawnb and Mr. E. E. Brown for the motion.
-Mr. Charlem 0. Wheadon, opposing.
MR. CansF JUSTICE WA=m delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to reverse a judgment of the Supreme
Court of Nebraska on, the single ground that the Supreme
Court decided that the District Court of Lancaster County had
jurisdiction to proceed with the suit after a petition for the re-

GREGORY v. HARTLEY.
Opinion of the Court.

moval thereof to the Circuit Court of the United States had
been made and fied in the District Court. The transcript,
which has been returned with the writ, is evidently very imperfect, and it -purports to contain only a part of the record
below. It is not authenticated by the clerk as a full transcript,
and it shows on its face that much which'is important to a correct understanding of the case has been omitted. From what
has been returned, however, it sufficiently appears that the suit
was originally brought in the District Court of Lancaster
County by Milo F. Kellogg against Luke Lavender, James E.
Phillpot, John S. Gregory, E. Mary Gregory, Thomas J.
Cantlon, R. F. Parshall, and perhaps some others, to enforce
the specific performance of a contract in writing entered into
on the 30th of July, 1872, between the plaintiff Kellogg and
the defendant Lavender for the sale by Lavender to Kellogg of
certain lots in Lincoln, Nebraska, The price to be paid was
$2,5.00. Of this amount $500 was paid in hand, and for the
remaining $2,bOO Kellogg executed two notes of $1,000 each,
payable to the order of Lavender, one on the first day of May,
1873, and the other on the first day of May, 1874, with interest
at the rate of twelve per cent. per annum. At what time the
suit was begun nowhere appears, but an amended petition was
filed on the 22d 'of November, 1879, making Joseph W. Hartley, Reuben R. Tingley, and many others parties. To this petition Hartley filed an answer and cross-petition on the 2d of
December, 1879, Tingley an answer on the 1st of December,
1879, and Parshall an answer and cross-petition at some time
before May 17, 1880. The answer and cross-petition of Hartley
are found in the record, and from them it appears that he
claimed and sought to enforce a lien on the property as security
for the payment of money he advanced Kellogg to aid in paying the note due to Lavender in May,1873. The answer of
Tingley and the answer and cross-petition of Parshall are not
copied into the transcript. On the 17th of May, 1880, the two
Gregorys, Lavender, Cantlon and Phillpot filed demurrers to
the answers and cross-petitions of Hartley and'Parshall, and to
the answer of Tingley, on the ground that they'did not state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action or a defence.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

These demurrers were heard and overruled by the court on the
17th of August, 1880, and thirty days given the demurring defendants to answer.
At the time of the filing of the amended petition the legal
title to the property was in E. Mary Gregory, the wife of J. S.
Gregory, Lavender having conveyed it to Phillpbt and Cantlon
after he made his contract with Kellogg, and they having
afterwards sold and conveyed it to Mrs. Gregory. On the
28th of November, 1879, Mrs. Gregory settled all matters in
dispute with Kellogg, and he assigned to her his contract with
Lavender. After this settlement, on the 22d of September,
1880, Mrs. Gregory filed her answer to the amended petition,
in which she set up her title to the property and her adjustment
of the controversy with Kellogg. On the 27th of September.
1880, Lavender, Phillpot and Cantlon fied their answer to the
cross-petition of Hartley. On the 5th of November, 1880, leave
was given Parshall and Tingley to file amended answers in
forty days, and, on the 13th of December, 1880, Parshall did
file his answer and cross-petition, claiming to be the owner of
Kellogg's note to Lavender falling due in 1874, and asking to
enforce a lien on the property for its payment. At the same
time Tingley filed his answer and cross-petition, in which he
claimed an interest in the note due in 1874,,and prayed affirmative relief in his own behalf. On the 3d of March, 1881,
Lavender, Phillpot, Cantlon and Mrs. Gregory, With leave of
the court, filed a reply to the answer and cross-petition of
Parshall. On the 23d of March, 1882, leave was granted
Tingley to amend his pleadings, and to Mrs. Gregory to file an
amended aswer in thirty days. Mrs. Gregory did file her
amended answer to the cross-petition of Hartley on the 17th of
April, 1882, and, on the 15th of June thereafter, the Gregorys,
Lavender, Cantlon, Philipot and Kellogg presented their
petition for the removal of the cause to the Circuit Court of the
United States. That petition, so far as it is material to the
question now under consideration, is as follows:
"Your petitioners now show to this court that the plaintiff
herein, Milo F. Kellogg, is a citizen of the State of Missouri;
defendant Thos. J. Cantlon is a citizen of the State of Colorado;

GREGORY v. HARTLEY.
Opinion of the Court.

defendant iReville F. Parshall is a citizen of the State of Wis-.
consin; defendant J. W. Hartley is a citizen- of the State of
Ohio; and that defendants E. Mary Gregory, James E. Phillpot,
J. S. Gregory, and Luke Lavender are citizens of the State of
Nebraska; and that said Thos. J.Cantlon and Reville E. Parshall were non-residents of the State of Nebraska at the commencement of this action.
"That none of the other defendants in said cause have made
any appearance or set up any claims of interest in the cause or
controversy, and that the defendants named herein are the
only ones appearing to have any interest therein. Your
petitioners further represent that no final hearing or trial of
said cause has been had, but said cause is now pending for trial
in this court."
Upon the presentation of this petition the District Court refused to surrender its jurisdiction, and the petitioners excepted.
On the l1th of November, 1882, a decree was entered sustaining the several claims of Hartley and Tingley, and establishing
liens in their favor on the property in dispute. From this decree the Gregorys, Phillpot, Cantlon and Lavender appealed to
the Supreme Court of the State, and assigned for error the refusal of the District Court to surrender its jurisdiction on the
presentation of the petition for removal. The Supreme Court
sustained the action of the District Court, and to review that
decision this writ of error was brought.
To our minds it is very clear that there was no error in the
rulings of the courts below upon the federal question involved,
which alone can be considered by us. The District Court was
not bound to surrender its jurisdiction until a case was made
which on the face of the record showed that the petitioners
were in law entitled to a removal. The mere filing of a petition is not enough, unlezs, when taken inconnection with the
rest of the record, it shows on its face that the petitioner has,
under the statute, the right to take the suit to another tribunal.
RailroadCo. v. Xoontz, 104 U. S.5,14.
The act of March 3, 1875, ch. 137, ยง 3, 18 Stat. 471, which
governs this case, provides that the petition for removal must
be filed at or before the term at which the cause could be first

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

tried, and before the trial. This has been construed to mean
the first term at which the cause is in law triable-the first
term in which the cause would stand for trial if the parties had
taked the usual steps asto pleadings and other preparations.
Babbitt v. Clark, 103 U. S. 606; Pullman Palace Car Co. v.
,Sqpeck, ante, 87. It has also been decided that there cannot be a removal after a hearing on a demurrer to a complaint
because it does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action. Alley v. .Yott, 111 U. S. 472 ;"Scharfv. Levy, 112 U.
S. 711. Either one of these rules is fatal to the present' case.
If we treat the suit as originally one to enforce the liens of
Hartley and Tingley upon the property as security for the
payment of the amounts due them respectively, it was begun
when their respective answers and cross-petitions claiming
affirmative relief were filed, and this was certainly not later
than December 13, 1880, or a year and a half before the petition
for removal was presented. Five terms of the c6urt had passed,
at either one of which the case would have been triable if the
parties had taken the usual steps as to pleadings and preparations. In fact more than a year had elapsed from the time the
issues had actually been made up on the pleadings of some of
the parties.
Then again, the answers and cross-petitions of the claimants
of these several liens are to be treated as their petitions for relief upoii their respective causes of action. The answer and
cross-petition of Hartley, the original answer of Tingley, and
the original answer and cross-petition of Parshall, were all demurred to on the 17th of 'May, 1880, and the demurrers overruled, nearly two years before the petition for removal was
fied. After the hearing on the demurrers it was too late, under our decisiotis, to ask for a removal.
Without considering any of the other objections to the removal which might be urged, the judgment is

