BLAKE v. SAN FRANCISCO.
Syllabus.

that Walker's payment of the mortgage debt took the form of
a purchase of the mortgage lien does not deprive him of that
security.
We find no error in the proceedings and decree of the Circuit Court. But as the time limited by the decree, to wit,
April 1, 1881, for the payment to Walker by W. F. Flagg, or
some one of the defendants to the cross-bill, of the said sum of
$25,207.18, with interest, has passed, we think the time for
such payment should be extended. The appelladts, while they
were litigating their rights with Walker in this court, having
given an appeal bond which' superseded the decree of the
Circuit Court, were not required to make the payment.
We therefore direct that the decree of the Circuit Court be
8o modified a8 to extend the time for the pqyment of the
8um coming to Walker for the period of ix mronth from
thefiling of the mandate of thi8 court in the Circuit Court;
and, a8 8o modified, the decree of the Circuit Court ie
affirmed-

BLAXE v. SAN FRANCISCO.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT c.oVRT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
Argued January 30, 1885.-DecIfed March 2, 1885.

The second claim in the reissued patent of September 18, 1877, to Charles E.
Blake, assignee of the administratrix of Thomas H. Bailey, deceased, for an
improvement in relief valves fcr water cylinders, is for a combination of
an automatic valve with a pinhole and pin to effect the desired object;
and, as automatic valves had been previously used for that purpose in
other combinations, it is ot infringed by a combination of such a valve
with a screw, sleeve or cap toeffect the same objects.
The adaptation of an automatic valve, a device known and in use before the
plaintiff's patent, to a steam fire engine, is not such invention as will sustain
a patent.
Where the public has acquired the right to use a machine or device for a particular purpose, it has the right to use it for all like purposes to which it
can be applied, unless a new and different result is obtained by a new application of it.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

Bill in equity to restrain the infringementr of a patent for an
invention. The facts which make the case are stated in the
opinion of the court.
.Xr. George lF.Dyer for appellant.
A1 . Wiallamr Craig for appellee.
JUSTICE WooDs delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree dismissing a bill filed by the
appellant to restrain the infringement by the appellees of reissued letters patent granted to the appellant, as the assignee
of original letters patent issued to Thomas H. Bailey. The
original patent was dated February 9, 1864, and the reissue
September 18, 1877. They were for "1anew and improved
valve for the water cylinders of steam fire engines and other
pump cylinders." The specification, which was substantially
the same in both patents, stated that previous to the invention
therein described the only valve used to relieve the pressure
upon fire hose to prevent them from bursting was one operated
by hand. To obviate the defects of such a valve, the inventor
applied, at some point between the engine or pump and the
hose nozzle, a valve which opened automatically by the pressure
in the hose or the pump cylinder, so as to discharge an additional
stream, and thereby relieve the pressure.
The specification then minutely described an automatic relief or safety valve, and added: "To enable the valve to be
screwed down to bring all practical pressure upon the pump
and hose in a trial of an engine, there is a hole d' drilled
through the upper part of the screw-cap D and valve stem d,
when the valve is down in its seat, for the reception of a pin,
by the insertion of which the valve stem and cap can be connected rigidly, so that by slightly turning the cap the valve
may be screwed down close to its seat."
The reissued patent contains two claims, the second of which
only is found in the original. They are as follows:
1. The combination, with a pump cylinder and hose of a fire
engine of an automatic relief valve, arranged relatively thereto,
substantially as snecified.

MR.

BLAKE v. SAN FRANCISCO.
Opinion of the Court.

2. The combination of the valve 0, stem d', spring E, adjustable cap D, and pin-bole d, whereby the valve may be either
held upon its seat with a variable yielding pressure, or may be
elevated therefrom, or'held immovably thereon, as an ordinary
screw-plug.
The answer of the defendants denied infringement, denied
that Bailey was the original inventor of the devices described.
in his patent, and averred that his alleged invention had been
in notorious public use many years before the application of a
patent therefor by Bailey.
The appellant does not contend that the appellees infringe
the first claim of the reissued patent. He bases his demand for
relief on the alleged infringement of the second claim only.
We think that the proper construction of this claim is that
it covers an automatic valve in combination with a contrivance
consisting of a pin-hole and pin, by which the valve may be
raised from its seat, so as to leave the valve hole permanently
open, or by which the valve may be rigidly closed upon its seat,
making a closed or plug valve.
The evidence shows that Bailey was not the first to conceive
the idea of a device for opening or closing rigidly an automatic
valve. The same thing had been done by means of wedges
and screws and other devices. He cannot, therefore, cover by
his patent all the devices for producing this result, no matter
what their form or mode of operation. The claim must be
confined to the specific device described in the specification and
claim, namely, a pin-hole and pin. If this construction of the
claim be adopted, it is clear that no infringement is shown, for
the appellees do not use a pin-hole and pin for holding their
valve open or closed, but a screw, sleeve or cap; and, therefore, one of the elements of the combination, covered by the
second claim of appellant's patent, is wanting in the device used
by the appellees. Prouty v. Rugglee, 16 Pet. 336. See also
iRowell v. Lindgay, ante, page 97, and cases there cited.
But if it be contended that the device covered by the second
claim of the appellant's patent is infringed, simply by the use
of an automatic relief valve, which can be converted at will into
an open or closed valve, the evidence in the record is abundant

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

to show that long before the application of Bailey for the
original' patent, automatic safety valves, which could be thus
rigidly opened or closed, were in common use for the purpose of
relieving pipes and cylinders from the pressure of steam or
water, and that the valve of the appellant did not materially
differ from those which were in common use. This was virtually conceded by the appellant when, being under examination as a witness in his own behalf, he was asked by counsel
for the appellees in what respect the valve, described in his
patent, differed from any other automatic relief valve, he replied:
"It is about the same as others." "1It is similar to other automatic steam pump valves."
Upon this state of facts it was plain that the mere employment by the defendant of the old and well-known automatic
safety valve afforded no ground upon which.to base the relief
prayed for in the appellant's bill. Appellant's counsel, therefore, disclaimed any right to the exclusive use of an automatic
safety valve, and said: "We do not claim the valve any further
than in this combination with a steam fire engine."
If it be conceded, therefore, that the secoud claim of appellant's patent covered the use of an automatic relief valve
applied to a steam fire engine and hose, the question is presented
whether the appellant§ patent thus construed is valid.
"It is settled," says Mr. Justice Gray, speaking for the
court, "by many decisions of this court

.

.

.

that the ap-

plication of an old process, or mdehine, to a similar or analogous
subject, with no change in the manner of application and no
result substantially distinct -in its nature, will not sustain a
patent, even if the new form of result has not before been conterhplated." PennylvaniaRailroad Co. v. Locomotive Truck
Co., 110 U. S.-490, and cases there cited.
It follows from this principle that, Where the -public has acquired in any way the right to use a machine or device for a
particular purpose, it has the right to use it forall the like purposes to which it can be applied, and no one can take out
a patent to cover the application of the device to a similar
purpose.
If there. is any qualification of this rule, it is that if a new

'3LAKE v. SAN FRANCISCO.
Opinion of the Court.

and different result is obtained by a new application of an invention, such new-application may be patented as an improvement on the original invention; but if the result claimed as new
is the same in character as the original result, it will not be
deemed a new result for this purpose. For instance, an automatic relief valve, used to relieve the pressure of steam, produces no new result in character when used to relieve the
pressure of water, unless some further effect besides the mere
relief of pressure is obtained. This qualification, therefore, will
not affect the present case, because no new result in character
is accomplished by the supposed invention of the plaintiff.
Besides, it appears from the evidence that before Bailey's
patent was applied for, relief valves were in common use, both
on land and at sea. They were commonly used on the steam
feed-pumps of steamships. These pumpt were usually fitted
with nozzles for the attachment of hose, so that the feed-pump
could, in case of need, be used as a steam fire engine. LIt is,
therefore, plain that in this state of 'the art Bailey could not
obtain a valid patent for applying a similar valve to a portable
steam fire engine. lie could not do this for two reasons. first,
because the public had the right to use the valve for all similar purposes for which it was adapted; and, second, because
the application of a valve, which had been used on a stationary
steam fire engine on ships, to a portable steam fire engine on
land, did not require any ingenuity or involve invention:
It is no answer to this to assert that the applIcation of a relief valve to a portable steam fire engine is the invention of a
new combination.. There was no- invention; the combination
was already in public use on steamships. The application of
the valve to a similar use on land was not a new combination
or a new invention.
We are of opinion, therefore, that construing his patent as
the appellant has been compelled by the testimony to do, Bailey
invented nothing but the pin-hole and- pin mentioned in his
specification, and this is not used by the appellees.
2Yhe decree of t~w Circuit Court i8 azfflrnwd.

