SCHTMEDER v. BARNREY.
Opinion of the Court.

SOHMIEDER v. BARNEY.
iN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR TEM
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Submitted November 26,1884.-Decided March 2, 1885.

The act of July 14, 1862, ยง 9, 12 Stat. 558, imposes, as a duty, "On all delaines

.

.

.

and on all goods of similar description, not exceeding in

value forty cents per square yard, two cents per square yard :"Held, That

the similarity required is a similarity in product, in adaptation to uses, and
inuses, eventhoughincommerce they may be classed as different articles;
affirming Greenleafv. Goodrich, 101 U. S. 278.
It is competent to inquire of a witness in a suit to recover back duties paid
under this clause of the act of 1862 whether the words "of similar descril:P
tion" is.a commercial term, and if so what is its commercial meaning ; but
it is no t competent to inquire whether the particular goods, alleged to have
been improperly subjected to duty, were of similar description to delaines.
The language of-tariff acts is construed as having the same meaning in commerce that it has in the community at large, unless the contrary iยง shown.
Swan v. Arthur, 108 U. S. 598, to this point, affirmed.

The facts which make the case are stated in the opinion of
the court.
2M. A. W. GiriwoZ/d and 2!. Sidney W dSer for plaintiffs
in errcrr.

.Mr. Solicitor'-Generalfor defendant in error.
delivered the opinion of the court.
The only fact in issue in this case on the trial below was
whether the "Saxony dress goods" imported by the plaintiffs
in error were "goods of similar description" to "delaines,"
within the meaning of that term as used in the tariff act of
July 14, 1862, ch. 163, ยง 9, 12 Stat. 553. To maintain this
issue on their part, the plaintiffs in error called a number of
merchants and commercial experts, by whom they offered to
prove that, in trade, among merchants and importers, "Saxony
woven dress goods" were not, in 1861 and 1862, and prior
MR, CHIEF JUSTcE W

ITE

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of ,the Court.

therbto, "commercially known or considered as goods of similar description to delaines," "but cnpmrercially belonged to

another class, that of woven dress goods, classed as different'
articles, and kept in a different department of goods from the
family of printed dress goods, known as delaines." Other witnesses, who were commercial experts, were asked, in substance,
whether, in their opinion, the goods which had been imported
by the plaintiffs in error were known in tiade among merchants, in 1861 and 1862, as goods of similar description to

delaines. All this evidence was excluded by the court, and
exception taken. 5 Fed. Rep. 150. That ruling is now assigned
for error.
In Greenleaf v. Goodrich, 101 U. S. 2T8, decided by this
court at the October term, 1879, after the trial below in the
present case, it was held that it was not error to charge the
jury (p. 283) "that the similarity referred to in the expression
'goods of similar description,' in the act of 1862, is a similarity
i respect to the product, and its adaptation to uses, and to its
uses, and not merely to the process by which it was produced,
and that if a class of goods were not, in 1862, commercially
known as delaines, it does not follow that they were not goods
of similar description, within the meaning of the 'statute;" ot
to charge that "these words are to be taken and understood in
their popular and received import, as generally understood in
the community at large at the time of the passage of the act."
In reference to this, and other portions of the charge then
under examination of a like import, this court said, speaking
by Mr. Justice Strong (p. 284): ":Notwithstaiding the strenuous objections urged against such a submission to-the jury, we
think it was correct. At least it was quite as favorable to the
plaintiffs as they had the right to demand. Reliance is placed
upon the rule, which we admit to be established, that the commercial designation of an article among traders and importers,
when such designation is clearly established, fixes its character
for the purpose of the tariff laws. But the present is not a
case of commercial designation of articles. The phrase 'of
similar description' is not a commercial term, and, if it were,
there is no evidence in the record. to show what it is understood

SCHMhIEDER v. BARNEY.
Opinion of the Court.

to mean among merchants and importers." To this ruling we
adhere, notwithstanding what is said in the able argument
which has been presented to us on behalf of. the present importers. It is quite true that, in the case then presented, the
fact that delaines were "woven in the gray," that is to say, in
the natural color of the materials of which they were composed, and not in colors, as was the case with "Saxony dress
goods," was much relied on as showing that the dress goods
were not of a similar description with delaines; but the real
point for decision was whether goods must be commercially
classified with delaines to make them of "similar description."
It was there decided that if they were similar in product, in
adaptation to uses, and in uses, they were of, similar description, even though in commerce they might be classed as different articles. Upon that question the decision in Greenleaf v.
Goodrich must be taken as conclusive.
It is contended, however, that in this case the plaintiffs in
error went further than was done in that, and that they offered
to prove that in commerce " Saxony dress goods" were not considered as of "similar description" to delaines. It is argued
that this brings the case within what should be taken as an exception reserved in the former decision. The exception claimed
is. drawn from the following clause in the opinion: "The
record exhibits nothing tending to show what was commonly
understood among merchants as distinguishing goods, known
in commerce as of a similar description with delaines, from all
other goods. Nor was there any evidence that there were any
goods known by merchants, or in commerce, as goods of similar description with delaines, much less was it in proof that
being woven in the gray was regarded by merchants as determining that goods so woven were. not of similar description
with delaines. In regard to all these matters the record is
silent. Composed, as the goods were, of the same materials as
delaines, having a similar general appearance, and intended for
the same uses, they might well have been of similar description
with colored delaines, though there were differences in the
process of manufacture."
Undoubtedly the language of tariff acts is to be construed

OCTOBER TEAM, 1884.
Syllabus.

according to its commercial signification, but it will always be
understood to have the same meaning in commerce that it has
in the community at large, unless the contrary is shown.
Swan v. Arthur, 103 U. S. 597, 598. The most that can be
claimed for the alleged reservation in GreenZaf v. Goodrich
is, that it would have. been proper to inquire whether the phrase
"of similar description" was a comnercial term, and if so,
what it was understood by merchants and importers to mean.
That, however, is not what was attempted in this case. The
witnesses were asked, in effect, not what the words "of similar
description" were understood among commercial men to mean,
but whether the goods of these importers were known in commerce as goods of similar description to delaines.
The effort was to put the opinion of commercial experts in
the place of that of the jury upon a question which was as well
understood by the community at large as by merchants and
importers. This it was decided in Greenleafv. Goodrich could
not be done, and upon the point supposed to have been reserved
in that decision this case stands just where that did. The
testimony offered was, therefore, properly rejected.
The opinions of the collector of the port and of the board of
official appraisers were no' more admissible on this question
than those of any other competent experts.
The judgment is
Affirmed.

CAMP v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Argued January 27, 28, 1885.-Decided March 2, 188.
When a regulation, made by the head, of an executive department in pursuance of law, dmpowers subordifiates, of a class named, to contract on
behalf of the United States as to a given subject matter; and further directs
that "any contract made in pursuance of this regulation must be in writing," a verbal executory contract relating thereto is not binding upon the
United States.

