SANTA ANNA v. FRANK.
Opinion of the Court.

SANTA AINA v. FRANK.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT CUXr OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Submitted January 9, 1885.-Decided February 2,18.

When a jury is waived by stipulation, a general finding of' the issues by the
court is not open to review.
The declaration contained a special count upon municipal bonds and coupons,
and general counts for money had and received, &c. A jury was waived,
and the court found generally on all the issues. The bill of exceptions
contained all the evidence, but showed no exception to its admission. HPId,
That the general counts were sufficient to support the judgment, and that
questions raised 'asto the subject matter of the special count were therefore immaterial.

The facts which make the case are stated in the opinion of

the court.
.r. Hamilton Sjencer and

2'. Thomas F. Tipton for plain-

tiff inerror.
.MXr. T. C. 1father for defendant in -error.
MR. JUSTICE IIARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
The first count in the declaration is upon certain bonds and
coupons purporting to be the obligations of the town of Santa
Anna, in the State of Illinois, and to have been issued in pursuance of an act of the legislature of Illinois, entitled "An Act
to amend thi articles of association' of the Danville, Urbana,
Bloomington and Pekin Railroad Company, and to extend the
powers of and confer a charter upon the same," approved
February 28, 1867, and in accordance with the vote of the
electors of said township, at the special election held July 21,
1866. The declaration, also, contains the common counts for
money paid, money had and received, &c. A jury having
been waived by a stipulation in writing, the case was tried by
the court. The bill of exceptions, which embodies all the evi'deuce, does not sbow any exception by either party to the
admission of evidence, and concludes: "This was all the evi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabus.

dence offered by either party, and thereupon the court found
the issues for the plaintiff." A judgment was 'entered for
plaintiff, and a motion in writing for new trial was overruled,
to which defendant excepted.
1. There is no special finding of facts; and the general finding of the issues for the plaintiff is not open to review by this
court. Xartinton v. Fairbanks,112 U. S. 670.
2. The questions discussed by counsel for the defendant as
to the legal authority of the town to issue the bonds referred
to fairly arise upon the fAnst count of the declaration. But
their determination cannot affect the judgment, for the common counts are sufficient under the statutes of fllinois to support the judgment, without reference to any question of the
legal authority to issue the bonds described in the first count.
Rev. Stat. Ill. 1870, ch. 110, ยง 58; Bond v. .Dustin, 112
U. S. 604.
Judgment ffirmd.

-MoARTHUR & Others v. SCOTT & Others.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
Argued January 28, 29, 184.-Reargued April 7, 8, 9, 1884.-Decided March 2, 1885.

Words in a will, directing land to be conveyed to or divided among remaindermen at the expiration of a particular estate, are to be presumed, unless
clearly controlled by other provisions, to relate to the beginning of enjoyment by remaindermen, and not to the vesting of the title in them.
A testator devised lands and personal property to his executors and their successors, and their heirs, in trust ; and directed that the income, until his
youngest grandchild, who might live to be twenty-one years of age, should
aTive at that age, should be divided equally among the testator's children,
or the issue of any child dying, and among the grandchildren also as they
successively came of age ; that "after the decease of all my children, and
when and as soon as the youngest grandchild shall arrive at the age of
twenty-one years," the lands should be "inherited and equally divided
between my grandchildren per capita," in fee, and that "in like manner"
the personal property should "at the same time be equally divided among
my said grandchildren, share and sare alike per capita;" and that if any
grandchild should have died before the final division, leaving children, they

