OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of"Pacts.

they do not employ an equivalent, it follows that they do not
infringe the plaintiffs' patent.
The decree of the Circuit Court, which dismi8sed the plaintiffs' bill, is afflrmed.

FIND LAY v. McALLISTER & Others.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

OR

THE EASTERN DISTRIOT OF 1iISSOURL
Submitted December 2, 1884.-ecIded January 12, 158.

The confederating together of divers persons with a purpose of preventing the
levy of a county tax, levied in obedience to a writ of mandamus, in order
to pay a judgment recovered against the-eounty upon its bonds ; and the
prevention of the sale of property seized under the levy bythreats, menaces, and hostile acts, which deterred persons from bidding for the property levied on, and intimidated tax-payers and influenced them not to pay
the tax, whereby the judgment creditor was injured to the amount of his
judgment, constitute good cause of acti a iA his favor against the parties so
conspiring.

The plaintiff in error was 'the plaintiff in the Circuit Court.
He brought his suit against Thomas McAllister and fourteen
other defendants to recover damages upon a cause of action,
which was stated in his petition substantially as follows: The
plaintiff, being the holder and owner of certain bonds issued by
the County of Scotland, in the State of Missouri, and of certain
interest coupons detached-. therefrom, recovered, on September
25, 1877, in the same Circuit Court in which the present action
was brought, a judgment on his coupons against the county for
the sum of $4,008.86. The county failing to pay the jidgment,
the Circuit Court issued a peremptory writ of mandamus commanding the County Court of Scotland County to levy and
cause tb be collected a special tax upon all the taxable property
within the county, suificient to pay the judgment, with the interest thereon and costs. At the same time writs of mandamus
were issued by the same Circuit- Court, directing the same

FINDLAY v. :McAULISTER.
Statement of Facts.

County Court to levy similar special taxes to pay vatious other
judgments rendered against the county, upon like d6mands, in
favor of several other plaintiffs. In obedience to these writs
the County Court levied a special tax, denominated "judgment
tax," sufficient to pay off all the judgments, and caused the same
to be placed on the tax books of the county, and the tax books
-to be delivered to the collector of the county for the collection
of the tax. A part of this *taxso levied was levied in obedience
to the writ of mandamus in the case of this plaintiff against the
county, and for the purpose of raising nioney to pay off his
judgment. "Wherefore the plaintiff," the petition averred,
"had a vested right and interest in said special tax to the
amount of his judgment, interest and costs."
After the special tax had been levied, and the tax book placed
in the hands of the collector for collection, the defendants, with
about two thousand other evil-disposed persons, residents of Scotkind County, for the purpose of depreciating the value of the
bonds held by the plaintiff, and thereby inducing and compelling
him to compromise his judgment and bonds at much less than
their value, did unlawfully and maliciously, and in contempt of
the orders and mandates of the Circuit Court, combine and conspire to hinder and prevent the County Court and the collector,
-from performing the things required by the mandate of the
Circuit Court, to wit, the collection and payment of the special
tax.
To this end The defendants and their confederates organized
themselves into an associatibn called "The Tax-payers' Association of Scotland County,". with branch organizations in
various school districts of the county, for the purpose, among
other things, of resisting the collection of the special tax, and-the
defendants "andtheir confederates did pledge themselves to contribute of their means and influence, and to protect each other
in all efforts ,made to resist the payment thereof.
In furtherance of their design, the defendants and their confederates, members of gaid association, made and published
threat of violence against the attorneys of the plaintiff, who
were employed to represent him in the collection of his judgment; and gave out and ,circulated the -threat that no person

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

would be allowed to bid upon, or purchase any property that
might be offered for sale by the collector to enforce the payment
of the special tax, intending thereby to intimidate any person
from bidding upon or purchasing any property offered for sale
by the collector for the payment thereof.
To induce the tax-payers of the county to join the association
and aid in carrying out their unlawful conspiracy, the defdnd-.
ants and their confederates falsely and fraudulently gave out
and published, that such bonds and special tax were illegal, null
and void, and that they were under no obligation, legal or
moral, to pay the same, well knowing. that such declarations
were false.
During the month of February, 1878, the collector of the
county, for the purpose of collecting the special tax, levied
upon a large number of horses and mules, and advertised them
to be sold on February 28,1878, at Memphis, in said county of
Scotland; whereupon- the defendants and their confederates,
in order to prevent the sale of the property so levied on, and
prevent the payment of plaintfff's judgment, and so to harass
and wrong him as to induce him to compromise his judgment
and bonds at much less than their value, assembled in vast
numbers at the time and place advertised for the sale, and, by
their combined influence, threats and hostile demonstrations,
did so overawe and intimidate the persons who had gone to
the place of sale, for the purpose of and with intent to bid on
the property, as to prevent them from bidding when the same
was offered for sale; and, by reason of such combined influence,
threats and menaces, the defendants: and their' confederates,
members of said association, acting under its orders, did prevent
any person from bidding on the property when so offered for
sale, and did prevent it from being sold.
The unlawful combination and conspiracy of the defendants,
to injure and defraud the plaintiff, and prevent the collection
of.his judgment, still existq; and, by reason of the combined
influence, threats, menaces and hostile demonstrations of the
defendants, the tax-payers of Scotland County are overawed
and intimidated, and so influenced that they do not pay thespecial tax, nor has the collector, by reasbn of said combination

FINDLAY v. McALLISTER.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

and association, been able-to cbllect. the same. The plaintiff,
by reason of the premises, has been damaged to the amount of
his judgment, to wit, $4,008.86, with interest thereon from
September 25, 1877, and costs; for -which, with $3,000 exemplary damages, he demands judgment against the defendants.
The defendants demurred to the .petition. In support of
their demurrer they -assigned and aizgued, both in the Circit
Court and this court, the following grounds:
1. That the plaintiff had no such legal property interest in
the taxes in question as to entitle him to maintain actions for
conspiracy.
2. That he had sustained no legal damages by the alleged
acts of the defendants.
The court sustained the demurrer, and rendered a judgment
for the defendants, to reverse which the plaintiff brought this
writ of error.
2fr. A. J. Baker and .Mr. F. . HuglhS, for plaintiff in
error.
.rH.
H.A. Cunninghzm and r. James 0. Broadhead,for
defendants in error.-There are two main propositions, either
one of which ought to conclusively determine this case in favor
of the defendants. 1. The plaintiff has no sua legal property interest in the taxes in question as to entitle him to'
maintain actions for conspiracy. 2. The 'plaintiff has sustained no legal damages by the alleged acts of the defendants.
These propositions will be considered together. The judgments are against the county, an artificial person. Individual
tax-payers are not liable, nor are the judgments liens on their
property.. The responsibility of tax-payers is to the tax officers,
not to creditors of the county to whom the money may or may
not go when collected. True, when the law says that taxes
may be levied by certain. officers, as county courts, to pay
certain debto, and collected by certain county collectors, the
courts may by mandamus compel those officers to proceed-to
the performance of their duties, but this in nowise enlarges the

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

scope of their, official pdwers. The courts can only command
them to proceed according to the law defining their duties.
See Rees v. Watertown, 19 Wall. 107; Heine v. levee Commissioners,'17 Wall. 655 ; Barkley v. Levee Commi sionem, 93 U.
S. 258. Mandamus is theremedy agaist an officer in such cage,
simply because there is no other. But mandamus will not lie
against the tax-payer to compel him to pay the tax. That is a
question between him and the collector. There is no relation
between the tax-payer and the plaintiff which warrants- an
action for conspiracy. No action lies for a simple conspiracy
to do an unlawful act. The act itself and the resulting damage
are the only grounds of action. XimbaZ v. Bfarmo, 34 Maryland, 401, 407 ; Adler v. -Fenton,2d: How. 408 is much in point.
See Saville v. Roberts, 1 Ld. Raymond, 374; Huchin8 v. Hutchins, 7 N. Y. 104 ; Lamb v. Stone, 11 Pick. 527 ; Wellington v.
Smdll, 3 Cush. 145; Smith v. Blake, 1 Day, 258 ; Barnet v.
-Davidson, 10 Ired.' 94; Green v.Iiimble, 6 Blackford, 552;
C6wles v._Day, 30 Conn. 406, 410. In an action for conspiracy
to injure, the damage, and not the conspiracy, is the gist of the
action. Iaverty v. 7an Arsdale, 65 Penn. St. 507; Parkerv.
Huntingdon, 2 Gray, 124; Jones v. Baker, 7 Cowen, 445;
Hutchins v. Hutchins, 7 Hill, 104; specially Adler v. FTenton,
24 How. 408. If the plaintiff may have redress by any of the
forms of action now known or practised it would be unwise
and unsafe to sanction an untridd one, the practical operation
of which cannot be foreseen. Lamb v. Stone, cited aboy'e;
Randall -,.
Hazelton, 12 Allen, 412; Anthony v. Slaid, 11
Metcalf, 290 (Shaw, Ch.J.). These taxes can only be collected
in the manner and by the officers designated by-law,. and this
court cannot indirectly collect them. The plaintiff's .judgment
against the county remains unaffected, with full right to enforce it in a legal way. The tax-payers, not being debtors of
the plaintiff, these actions will not lie.
MR.JusTicE

WooDs delivered the opinion of the court. "]Ie

recited the facts in the foregoing language, and continuied;
The facts stated in the petition are admitted by the demurrer,
and, for the present consideration of the case, must be taken as

FINDLAY v. McALLISTER.
Opinion of the Court,

true. The statutes of Missouri, -which were in force when the
bonds mentioned in the petition were issued, aad which still
remain in force, provide as follows: There shall, be a collector
of revenue for every county, who shall give bond conditioned
that he will faithfully and punctually collect and pay over all
State. county and other revenue for the two years next ensuing the first day of March thereafter. .After the tax book for
the year has been.corrected, and the amount of the county tax
stated therein, the County Court shall cause the same to be de.livered to the collector, and he shall be charged with the whole
amount of the tax book 'so delivered to him. The collector
shall diligently endeavor and use all lawful means to collect
the taxes which he is required to collect in his county. After
the first day of October he shall have power to seize and sell
the goods and chattels of any person liable -for taxes, in the
same manner as goods and chattels are or may be required to
be seized and sold under executions issued injuidgments at law;
and no property shall be exempt from seizure and sale for
taxes due on lands and personal property. The collector, having made settlement according to law of the revenue collected
by him, shall pay the amount found due into the county treasury.
When a demand against a county is .presented to the County
Court, the court shall-ascertain the amount due and order it to,
be paid out of the particular .fund--designating it-applicable
to the payment of such demand, and order their clerk to issue
a warrAnt therefor on the treasurer of the counity, which shall
designate the particular fund out of which the same is to be
paid.
The treasurer of the county is required to malie an entry in
a book to be kept by him of all warrants for moneyt lawfully
drawn by the County Court presented to him for payment;
and all warrants so presented sh all be paid out of the funds
mentioned in such warrants, and in the order in which they shall
be presented for payment. See sections 5370, 5394- 6733,
6754, 6774, 6821, 6822, Revised Statutes of Missouri of 1879.
The question presented by the demurrer to the petition is
not one of the measure of damages. If the plaintiff has sustained any substantial injury by reason of the wrongful acts of

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

the defendants set out in the petition,'for which he is entitled
to his action against them. the demurrer to the petition should
have been overruled.
It is evident from the provisions of the statutes of Missouri,
whose substance has been given, that the money received by
the collector of Scotland County in payment of the special tax
ordered by the County'Court to be collected for the payment
of the judgment of the plaintiff and other judgment creditors,
would, when collected, constitute a separate fund in the county
treasury, applicable to this purpose. If the special tax had
been collected, the plaintiff would have had such an interest
therein that a court of equity would at his instance enjoin its
diversion to any purpose save that for which it had been levied
and collected, and compel its payment to the satisfaction of the
judgment of the plaintiff. .feriweather v. Garrett, 102 U. S.
472,.514, 515 ; Attorney-General v. Dublin, 1 Bligh N. S. 312.
And see Davies v. Corbin, 112 U. S. 36. The use of the money
by the county, except for~the payment of the judgments, which
the writ of mandamus had been issued to enforce, would have
been a clear contempt of the orders and process of the Circuit
Court, as well as a violation of the law of the State.
The writ of mandamus under which the collector, according
to the averments of the petition, was proceeding to collect the
money to pay the judgment of the plaintiff, was a substitute
for the writ of fl~ri~acias,and was the only remedy by which
the plaintiff could enforce satisfaction. He had, therefore, as
clear an interest in the money to be raised by the special tax
for the payment of his judgment, as he would have had in the
money to be collected by the sheriff on execution- if his judgment had been against an individual. It would seem fairly to
follow that he had the same rights in the one case as in the
other, against those'who, to prevent the satisfaction of his judgment, unlawfully interfered with the officer in the discharge of
his duties.
It is plain that the injury of which the plaintiff complains is
not one common to himself and the public at large, as it would
have been had the defendants interfered to prevent the collection of the general taxes of the county. The alleged unlawful

FINDLAY v. McALLISTER.
Opinion of the Court.

acts of the defendants could injure only the plaintiff and the
other judgment creditors of Scotland County, for whose benefit the special tax was levied. If there is any cause of action
against the defendants, it belongs to the plaintiff and other
judgment creditors individually, and,the public has no share in
it. The objection that the plaintiff is only injured in common
with all the other members of the body politic, and has no separate and individual cause of action, cannot be successfully
urged.
The right of a judgment creditor to proceed by action against
those who rescue the person of his debtor arrested on mesne or
final process, oF interfere with the goods of his debtor so as to
prevent a levy or sale by the sheriff to satisfy his judgment, is
well recognized at common law.
Thus, in Smith v. 'Tondta&l, Carthew, 3, 4, adjudged on demurrer in the King's Bench and affirmed in the House of Lords:
A, a judgment creditor, sued B for procuring J. S., the judgment debtor, to confess a judgment in favor of one J. N., to
whom he did not owe anything, and J. N. sued out execution
on this feigned judgment by -virtue of which he seized all the
goods and chattels of J. S., which he esloined to places unknown and converted to his own use, by reason whereof the
plaintiff lost his debt. Held, that the action lay.
In Coinyns's Digest, under the head of Action on the Case
for Misfeasance, A. 5, it is stated that ark action will lie for
rescue of a person arrested upon mesne or judicial process, citing 2 Cro. 419, 486; Cro. Car. 109; or of goods taken in execution. And the action lies by the party to the suit in which
the arrest was, citing 2 Cro. 486; Cro. Car. 109; 2 Rolle's Ab.
556, pl. 14, 15.
Under the head of Rescous, D. 2, the same author says:
"So, if a person arrested upon mene process be rescued, an
action upon the case lies against the rescuers by the plaintiff in
the suit; for he has the loss and noremedy against the sheriff,"
referring to 2 Cro. 485-6, above cited, and also to 3 Bulst. 200.
In 2 Rolle's Ab. 556, pl. 14, 15, it is said: If a sergeant of
Ldndon or bailiff of the counter take a man on a capias in
process at my suit, and J. S. rescues him out of his pessession,

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

I may have a general writ of trespass against him, because the
sergeant is, for this purpose, my servant as well as the King's,
and -because the taking out of the sergeant's possession, he
being my servant, is a taking out of mine. Trin. 15, Jac. I.,
Wheatley v. Stone, adjudged on a writ of err6r at Sergeant's
Inn. But I may have action in the case as well. Trin., Jac.
I., Speere v. Stone, aflirmed same time; S. C. Hobart, 180, sub
nom. -W eatley v. Stone.
So in fynn v. Cougkton, Oro. Car. 109, cited in ]Bac. Ab.,
Execution 0, it was held that, if a defendant be rescued after
being taken on a capias ad 8atiefaciendum, the plaintiff .may
have an action for the misfeasance against the rescuers, for he
is the party who hath the loss, and to whom the injury is done,
and he ought not to be compelled to sue the sheriff, 'who may
be dead, and if he recover,.the rescuers may plead it if sued
by the sheriff, so that there is no danger of being doublecharged. 3 to 7. S. 0. Hutton, -98, sub nom. Congham'ns
Case.
In -fMay v. Sheri of.Jiddlesex, Cro. Jac. 419, which was an
aption on the case for escpape on-mesne process, it was held that
rescue may be pleaded in bar, but not for escape on final process. On mesn e process, the sheriff was not bound to take
posse comitatms, and on rescues returned by sheriff on mesne
process, process may be awarded ag.inst the rescuers, and an
action on the case lies against them. S. C. 3 Bulst. 198-201,
where a full -argument by Coke and Doddridge is reported.
The latter refers to Fitz. N. B.102, to show that the party may
sue rescuers.
Hodges v. arks,.Oro. Jac. 485, was an action on the case
for rescuing plaintiff's debtor out of sheriff's possession after
arrest on mesne process whereby the debtor escaped and went
to places unknown. Held good, for the loss is the plaintiff's,
as he cannot sue the sheriff ; and therefore it,is reason that he
should have action against those who did the injury- to him
whereby he lost his process and his means to recover his debt.
S. P. Kent v. Elwis, Cro. Jac. 241. Sce also 3 Bulst. 200; 5
Mod. 217 ; 2 T.R. 6, -126.
In Bentley v. Donnelly, 8 T. R. 127, which was an action 1y

FINDLAY v. McALLISTER.
Opinion of the -Court.

plaintiff in primer action against rescuers of defendant after
arrest on mesne process, the action was sustained.
These principles have been recognized by courts of high authority in this country.
In Yatev v. Joyce, 11 Johns. 136, Yates, the assignee of a
judgment against John Joyce, which was a lien on the prop
erty of the latter, was about to take out execution and seize a
certain lot of land, and the defendant, G. Joyce, knowing this,
pulled down and carried away certain buildings from off the
land, whereby Yates was deprived of the benefit of his judgment. It was held that Yates might maintain an action on
the case against G. Joyce for fraudulently removing the property of John Joyce and converting it to his own use, with intent to defeat the judgment of Yates. In giving judgment
on a demurrer to the declaration, the court said: "It is obvious, from the statement of the plaintiff's case in the declaration,
the truth of which is admitted by the demurrer, that he has
sustained damage by the act of the defendant which, he alleges,
was done fraudulently and with intent to injure him. It is the
pride of the common law that, whenever it recognizes or creates
a private right, it gives a remedy for the wilful violation of it.
It is a sound principle, that where the fraudulent
misconduct of a party occasions injury to the private rights of
another, he shall be responsible in damages for the same, and
such is the case presented by the pleadings in this *cause.
Penrodv. Xifitcheli, 8 S. & R. 522, was an action on the case
in the nature of a writ of conspiracy for fraudulently wiftdrawing the goods of the defendant in an execution, from the
reach of the plaintiff. It was not questioned that the action
would lie. The court held that the meastlre of damages was
the value of the goods thus withdrawn, and not the amount of
the judgment on which the execution was issued. In Mott v.
Danforth, 6 Watts, 304, it was held that a creditor, without
judgment or execution, and even before his debt was due;
might sue parties at law who conspire to defeat his right of
collection by fraudulently concealing and converting the debtor's goods. See also, to the same effect, Keleey v. Mu'rphy, 26
Penn. St. 78. And see Mkferedith v. Benning,1 Hen. & Manf. 585.
VOL. cxIU--8

OCTOBER "TERM,--1884.
Opinifa of the Court.

*The three cases last cited extend the rule further than the
exigency of the present case requires, and further than this
court has been disposed to go.
These authorities establish the right of a judgment creditor to his action against rescuers of the person or goods of the
debtor, seized by the sheriff to satisfy. the judgment, or against
one who prevents the seizure of the debtor's goods on execution; and the principle on which they rest is directly in the
face of the, contention of the defendants in error, that the
plaintiff has no legal interest in the taxes to be collected to
pay- his judgment, and has sustained no legal damages by the
alleged acts of the defendants. We think tb "y support the
action in the present case.
Of the authorities cited by the counsel for the defendants in
error in support of the demurrer, the principal case is Adler v.
Fenton, 24 How. 407, where it was held that an action would
not lie by a creditor, whose debt was not yet due, against his
debtors and two others for a conspiracy carried into effect to
-enable the debtors fraudulently to dispos9 of their property, so
as to hinder and defeat the creditor in the collection of his
debt. Mr. Justice Campbell, who delivered the opinion, put
the decision of the court on the ground that to sustain the action it must be shown not only that there was a conspiry,
but that there were~tortious acts in furtherance of it and consequent damage; that Adler & Schiff, the judgment debtors,
were the lawful owners of the property, .and had the legal
right to use and enjoy or sell it at their pleasure, and the plaintiffs, being gdneral creditors, had no interest in or lien upon it.
There was, therefore, no wrong of which the plaintiffs could
.complain.

In the other cases cited by the defendants* the plaintiff was
merely a general creditor, and had no judgment, attachment
or lien, the enforcement of which was obstructed by the de* Lamb v. Stone, 11 Pick. 527 ; Wellingtoln v. Small, 3 Cush. 145 ; Smith
v. Blake,.1 Day, 258 ; Burnet v. Davidson, 10 Ired. 94 ; Green v. Kimble,
6 Blackf. 552; Austin v. Barrows, 4t Conn. 287; Cowles v. Day, 80 Conn.
406, 410; Moody v. Burton, 27 Maine, 427; and Bradley v. Fuller, 118
Mass. 239.

FINDLAY v. McALLISTER.
Opinion of the Court.

fendant, or the' casea were otherwise inapplicable to the question in hand.
In the present case there was a conspiracy, tortious acts in
furtherance of it, and consequent damage to the plaintiff. The
property seized by the collector was in the custody of the law.
The tax-payers, for whose unpaid taxes it had.been seized, had
no longer any right to its possession or use, and could not sell
or otherwise dispose of it. It was devoted by the law to be
sold to raise a fund to pay the plaintiff's judgment. The plain-.
tiff had, therefore, an interest, which the law gave him, in the
property and its sale, and suffered a direct damage from the
alleged acts of the defendants b5 which a sale was prevented.
The plaintiff, according to the averments of his petition, had
recovered his judgment against the county; and he had obtained
his mandamus to the County Court directing it to levy and cause
to be collected a special tax to pay the judgment, The collector of the county, in obedience to the orders of the County
Court, which were themselves in obedience to the mandamus
of the Circuit Court, was proceeding to collect the tax, and
had levied on property to that end, and was about to sell it
when the threats and hostile demonstrations of the defendants
defeated the sale, and the petition averred the defendants continued to overawe and intimidate the tax-payers of the county,
so that they didnot pay the tax, and the collector had not been
able, by reason thereof, to collect .the tax.
The plaintiff cannot sue the collector, for he has done his
duty, and no suit lies against him. Unless the plaintiff has a
cause of action against the defendants, he is without remedy.
To hoid that the facts of this case do not give a cause of action
against them would be to decide that a citizen might be sujected to a wilful and malicious injury at the hands of private
persons without redress; that an organized band of conspirators could, without subjecting themselves to any liability, fraudulently and maliciously obstruct and defeat the process of the
courts, issued for the satisfaction of the judgment of a private
suitor, and thus render the judgment nugatory and worthless.
Such a conclusion would be contrary to the principles of the
common law and of right and justice.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabus.

It is no answer to the case made by the petition to say, ag
the defendants, by their counsel do,-that the judgment of the
plaintiff is still in force and bearing interest, and the liability
of the county still remains undisturbed. What is a judgment
worth that cannot be enforced? The gravamen of the plaintiff's. complaint is that .the defendants have obstructed, and
continue to obstruct, the collection of his judgment, and he
avers that he has -been damaged thereby to the amount of his
judgment and interest; in other Words, that by reason of the
unlawful and. malicious conduct of the defendants, his judgment has been rendered worthless. To reply to this that the
judgment still remains in force on the records of the court is
an inadequate answer. to the plaintiff's cause of action.
It follows from the views we have expressed that the Circuit
Court erred in sustaining the demurrer to the petition.
Judgment revred,and tiw cauee remandedfor furt.ler proceedhzg8 in on.formity wit thi8 opin-on.
MR. JUSTCE MnILER and MR. JusTicE FIELD dissented.

CENTRAL RAILROAD & BANIKING COMPANY OF
GEORGIA v. PETTUS & Others.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

MIDDLE DISTRICT OF ALA AMA.
,Argued April 14,15,1884.-Decided January 5,1885.

Certain unsecured creditors of a railroad company in Alabama instituted proceedings in equity, in a court of that State, on behalf of themselves and of
all other creditors of the same class who should come in and contribute to
the expenses of the suit, to establish a lien upon the property of that com.
pany in the hands of other railroad corporations which had purchased and
had possession of it. The suit was successful, and the court allowed all unsecured creditors -to prove their claims before a register. Pending the reference before the register the defendant corporations bought up the claims of
complainants, and other unsecured creditors. Thereupon the golicitors of
complainants filed their petition in the cause to be allowed reasonable compensation in respect of the demands of unsecured creditors (other than their

