OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

COON & Another v. WILSON.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Argued January14, 15,1885.-Decided January 26,1885.

Reissued letters patent No. 8,169, granted to Washington Wilson, as inventor,
April 9, 1878, on an application therefor filed March 11, 1878, for an "improvement in collars" (the original patent, No. 197,807, having been
granted to him December 4, 1877), are invalid as to claims 1 and 4.
The original patept described and claimed only a collar with short or sectional bands, that is, a band along the lower edge of the collar, made in
parts or sections, and having a graduated curve. The reissued patent and
claims 1 and 4 thereof were so framed as to cover a continuous band, with
a graduated ctrve, but not in sections. The defendants' collars were
brought into the market after the original patent was issued, and before
the reissue was applied for, and the reissue was obtained to cover those
collars; and, although it was applied for only a little over three months
after the date of the original patent, there was no inadvertence or mistake,
so far as the short or sectional bands were concerned, and it was sought
merely to enlarge the claim. Claim 2 of the reissue was substantially the
same as. the single claim of the original patent, and claim 8 bad, as an element, short bands. As the defendants' collars had a continuous band, with
a graduated curve, and not short or sectional bands, and did not infringe
the claim of the original patent or claims 2 and 3 of the reissue, and claims
1 and 4 thereof were invalid, the bill was dismissed.

This was a suit in equity, brought, in May, 1878, in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of
New York, for the infringement of reissued letters patent No.
8,169, granted to the plaintiff, Washington Wilson, as inventor,
April 9, 1878, on an application therefor filed March 11, 1878,
for an "iimprovem e nt in collars" (the original patentj No. 197,807, having been granted to him December 4, 1877). The
specifications, and claims of the original and reissued patents
were- as fd]lows, the original being on the left hand, and the
reissue on the righi hand, and the parts of each which are not
found in the.other being in italic:

COON v. WILSON.
Statement of Facts.

Original.

_iRei8eue.

"Be it known that I, Washington Wilson, of the city,
county, and State of New York,
have invented a new and improved collar, of which the following is a specification:
In the accompanying drawings, Figure I represents a side
elevation of my improved collar, and :Fig. 2 a perspective
view of the same. - Similar let- view of the same. Similar letters of reference indicate cor- ters of reference indicate corresponding parts.
responding parts.
This invention refers to an
This invention refers to an
improved standing collar, that improved standing collar, that
retains all the advantages of retains all the advantages of
the old-style curved band,with- the old-style curved bandwithout the objection of springing out the objection of springing
the collar too far from the neck, the collar too far from the neck'
so as to come in contact with so as to come in contact with
the coat and soil the collar. the coat and soil the collar.
The collar also hugs the neck- The collar also hugs the neckband in such a manner that the band in such a manner that the
collar is prevented" from over- collar is prevented from overriding it, resulting in a more riding it, resulting in a more
comfortable fit.
comfortable fit.
The invention consists of a
The invention consists of a
standing collar, having 8ect'onal standing or other collar, having
bands, starting from centre of curved and graduated bands
collar, or any other point be- -thatextend along the lower edge
tween centre and ends, andcon- of te collar, either from the
tinuingwith a graduatedcurve centre of the collar, or,from any
to and beyond the.ends of the other point between centre and
collar.
ends, to and beyond the ends
of the collar. The rear lutton:
hole i8 t rown into the top or
"Be it known that I, Washington Wilson, of the city,
county, and State of New York,
have invented a new and improved collar, of which the following is a specification:
In the accompanying drawings, Figure 1 represents a side
elevation of my improved collar, and Fig. 2 a perspective

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

Referring to the drawing,A
represents a. standing collar of
my improved construction, and
B the short or sectional bands,
which start from the centre of
collar, or any other point between the centre and ends, and
continue along the lower part
of the same, with a graduated
curve and increasing width, to
and beyond the ends of the
collar, in the same manner as in
ordinary bands.
The bands B are made either
to overlap the collar proper, or
the collar is made to overlap
the bands, or one part of the
'bands laps over the collar ends,
while the remaining part is
overlapped by the collar, so as
to obtain smoothly-covered
joints at both meeting ends of
collar and sectional bands.
The bead formed by the connection of collar and band may
also be continued, if desired,
along the lower edge of that
part of the collar between the
bands, and thereby a more ornamental appearance imparted
to the same.
The ue of the short or sec-

body of the collar above the
band or binding of the same.
Referring to the drawings,
A represents a standing or other
collar of my improved construction, and B the curvedand
graduatedbands, which extend
from the centre of the collar, or
any other point between the
centre and ends, and continue
along the lower part of the top
or body of the collar, with a
graduated curve and increasing
width, to and beyond the ends
of the collar, the ends -being
curved in the same manner as
in ordinary bands.
The bands B are made either
to overlap the collar proper, or
the collar is made to overlap
the bands, or one part of the
bands laps over the collar ends,
while the remaining part is
overlapped by the collar, so as
to obtain smoothly-covered
joints at both meeting ends of
collar and graduatedbands.
The bead or binding formed
by the connection of collar and
band may also be continued, if
desired, along the lower edge
of that part of the collar-body
between the bands, so as to
connect the graduated bands,
and impart thereby a more
ornamental appearance to the
collar.
TF"
he rear button-hole a is ar-

COON v. WILSON.
Statement of Facts.

ranged in the top or body of the
collar,above the bead or binding
at the lower edge of the same,
wichposition of the button-hole,
in connection with the graduated bands,produces a collarthat
hugs the neck-band in superior
manner without springingback,
so as to come in contact with
the coat-collar. The shorter
graduatedbands produce also a
considerablesaving of material,
as compared to the old style of
continuous band, that extends at
uniform width along the lower
part of collar.
Having thus described my
Having thus described my
invention, I claim as new and invention, I claim as new and
desire to secure by letters pat- desire to secure by letters patentent1. A collar provided with a
band composed of thepartsB B,
curved and tapered, or decreasingly graduatedfrom the ends
towards the middle, as shown
and described.
2. A collar having short or
sectional
A,
having
A collar,
bands, starting from
sectional
the
cenbands B, starting from
of the collar, or any
centre
point
the
or
any
tre of the collar,
between the centre and ends point between the centre and
thereof, and continuing with a ends thereof, and continuing
graduated curve to and beyondj with a graduated curve to and
the ends of the same, substan-. beyond the ends of the same,
tially as described and shown, substantially as and for the purand for the purpose set forth." pose set forth.
3. The combination, with a
collar having short bands gradu zted on a curve and decreas-

tional bandsproduces a saving
of material, as compared to the
old style of continuous band,
and furnishes a collar that
hugs the neck-band in superior
manner,without springingback
80 as to come in contact with
the collar.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts

ingly toward the middle, of a
band-connecting bead or binding along the lower edge, as set
forth.
4. -A ollar having curved
and graduated bands that extend along the top or body of
the collar,from the centre, or
any otherpoint between the cen-

tre and ends thereof, to and
beyond the ends of the collar,
and having the rear button-hole

placed above the band or binding.into the top or body of the
collar, substantially as shown
and described."
The following are the drawings of the reissue, those of the
original patent being the game, except that the button-hole is
not lettered in the original:
F .Z.

_ . .

The answer set up, as defences, (1) that the reissue was ob-

4J00N v. WILSON.
Argument for Appellee.

tamined for the purpose of covering a style or form of collar not
intended tc be covered by the original patent, the original
covering a short or sectional band collar only, and the reissue
being intended to cover a different style of band, subsequently
adopted by the plaintiff, and not having been procured for the
purpose of correcting a mistake in the claim of. the original;
(2) that the plaintiff was not the original and first inventor of
the thing patented; (3) non-infringement.
The case was heard on pleadings and proofs, and a decision
rendered, 18 Blatchford, 532, in favor of the plaintiff, on which
an interlocutory decree was entered, January 8, 1881, adjudging the reissued patent to be valid, and to have been infringed
by the defendants, by the manufacture and sale of four collars:
Exhibit F, Delhi; Exhibit G, Orion; Exhibit H, Zenith; and
Exhibit I, Spy ; and awarding an account of profits and damages, to be taken by a master, and a perpetual injunction. On
the report of the master, a final decree was entered, July 28,
1881, in favor of the plaintiff, for $8,355.32, which included
costs. The defendants appealed to this court.
Mr. William F. Coggswell for appellants.
.Mr. Edmund Wetmore and MrM. llamilton WaIlIs for appellee, argued the questions of infringement and anticipation; and
also the construction of § 4916 Rey. Stat., concerning reissues.
So much of that section as is relevant is as follows: "Whenever any patent is inoperative or invalid by reason of a defective or insufficient specification, or .by reason of the patentee
claiming as his invention or discovery more than he had a right
to claim as new, if the error has arisen by inadvertence, accident or mistake, or without any fraudulent or deceptive intention, the Commissioner shall, on the surrender of such patent
and the payment of the duty required by law, cause a new
patent for the same invention, and in accordance with the corrected specification, to be issued to the patentee

.

.

for

the unexpired part of the term of the original patent. .
The specifications and claim in every such case shall be subject
to revision and restriction in the same manner as original appliVOL. Cxm-18

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Argument for Appellee.

cations ae. Every patent so reissued, together with the corrected specification, shall have the same effect and operation in
law, on the trial of all actions for causes thereafter arising, as if
the same had been originally filed in such corrected form; but no
new matter shall be introduced into the specification, nor in the
case of a machine patent shall the model or drawigns be amended,
except each by the other; but when there is neither model nor
drawing, amendments may be made upon proof satisfactory to
the Commissioner that such new matter or amendment was a
part of the original invention, and was omitted from the specification by inadvertence, accident or mistake, as aforesaid."
The word "specification," when used separately from the word
"claim," in § 4916, means the entire paper referred to in § 4888,
namely, the written description of the invention "and of the
manner and process of making, constructing, compounding and
using it," and the claims made. The word "'specification,"
meaning description and claims, is used in that sense in § 4884,
4895, 4902, 4903, 4917, 4920 and 4922. In some cases, as in
§ 4888 and 4916, the words "specification and claim" are
used, and in § 4902 the word "description" and the word
"specification" are used. But it is clear that the word "specification" when used without the word "claim" means description and claim. If, then, the original patent is within the
statute as to either its "description" or "claim," or both, the
reissue was valid. But what meaning shall be given to the
remainder of the section? It will be observed that two terms
are employed, "invalid" and "inoperative." The word "invalid" plainly refers to cases where, from either of the causes
stated, the patent is a nullity and should never have been issued. Its application is limited to patents void for insufficiency
of the specification. If the word "inoperative" is to be construed as meaning the same thing, its use was superfluous. We
are then driven to seek another meaning for it, and this is not
difficult to find. Where the subject of an invention is plain,
from th6 drawing or model, or both, and the specification is
defective, in that the language used fails to fully describe the
thing invented, then, as to the part of the invention omitted,
the specification may well be said to be inoperative. This

COON v. WILSON.
Opinion of the Court.

principle has received the general sanction of the courts, in a
long line of authorities.
MR. JUSTICE BLATOHFOBD delivered the opinion of the court.
He recited the facts as above stated, and continued:
The defendants' collars have bands which are continuous from
end to end of the collar, and are not in two parts, nor divided
by any vertical or other seam, at the centre of their length or
elsewhere. They have no short or sectional bands, which start
from the centre of the collar, or from any point between the
centre and the ends. The band is not shorter than the length
of the collar. In the original patent,.the invention is stated to
be a collar having short or sectional bands, that is, the collar
has not a continuous band, of one piece of cloth as long as the
collar, and extending from end to end of the collar, but has its
band made in two sections, and each of those sections starts or
begins to run from the centre of the length of the collar, or
from a point between the c~ntre and the end, to and beyond
the end. The bands have a graduated curve and increasing
width, from their starting points, to and beyond the ends of
the collar. But that is only one feature in the claim of the
original, patent. The other feature, the sectional bands, is
made equally important in that claim, and a collar is not the
collar of that claim unless it has both of those features. That
claim is limited to a collar with .those features, "substantially
as described and shown."
The Circuit Court adopted the view, that a band, composed
of two sectional bands, starting from the centre, and proceeding with a graduated curve and increasing width, would not
make the whole band any less a continuous band with -agraduated curve and increasing width towards each end; that the
use of a continuous band of the latter description .would not
make the parts of it each side of the centre any the less sectional bands; that neither would be a continuous band of uniform width, and, as compared with that, there would be a
saving of material by the use of either arrangement; and that
it made no difference, in the Wilson invention, whether there
was a vertical seam in the centre of the band or not, provided

OCTOBER TERM,

1884.

Opinion of the Court.

the other features of the collar existed; that, if there existed,
-before Wilson's invention, a collar having those features, the
fact that it had not such vertical seam would not distinguish it
from the Wilson 'invention; that the real invention shown in
the original specification was that claimed in the reissue; and
that the reissue was, therefore, valid.
The defendants' collars have a band-of continuous material
from end to end of the collar, and the back button-hole in the
body of the collar, but the band is not of uniform width
throughout, being narrowed in the centre. It has, as a whole,
the same style of graduated curve which the Wilson collar has.
The defendants' collars were first made and sold after the. original patent of Wilson was granted, and after the defendants
had seen sectional band collars made under it. The first of the
defendants' four collars was made and sold ii February, 1878,
and the other three in March, or April, or May, 1878. The
reissue was applied for March 11, 1878, and Wilson testifies
that his impression is, that he fad previously heard of the defendants' collars. It Is evident that the reissue was obtained
because the defendants' collar, with a continuous band, had
een put on the market, and for the purpose of obtaining claims
which would certainly cover such a collar. The changes made
in the specification and claims show this. The specification of
the reissue, in stating what .the invention consists of, omits the
statement that it is a collar having sectional bands, and states
that it is a collar having curved and graduatedbands. It also
omits the statement that the bands start from the centre, or
from a point between the centre and the ends, and states that
the curved and graduated bands extend along the lower edge of
the collar, from the'centre, or from a point between the centre
and the ends. The statement of the invention, in the original
patent, did not cover the defendants' collars, nor did the claim
of that patent. The 2d claim of the reissue is substantially the
same as the claim of the original patent. ,But the 1st and 4th
claims of the reissue, corresponding with the changes made in
the description, ignore the short or sectional bands, and refer
only to a curved and graduated band. The 3d claim preserves
the short bands, curved and graduated. As the defendants'

COON v. WILSON.
Opinion of the Court.

collars do not have the short or sectional bands, and so do not
infringe the 2d and 3d 61aims of the reissue, the question arises
as to the validity of the 1st and 4th claims, which it is alleged
are infringed.
The final decree in this case was entered July 28, 1881. The
decisions of this court in Miller v. Bras8 Co., 104 U. S. 350,
and James v. Cambell, 104 U. S. 356, were made January 9,
1882. Under those decisions, and many others Imade by this
court since, the 1st and 4th claims of the reissue cannot be sustained. Although this reissue was applied for a little over
three months after the original patent was granted, the case is
one where it is sought merely to enlarge the claim of the original patent, by repeating that claim and adding others; where
no mistake or inadvertence is shown, so far as the short or sectional bands are concerned; where the patentee waited until
the defendants produced their continuous band collar, and then
applied for such enlarged claims as to embrace the defendants'
collar, which was not covered by the claim of the original
patent; and where it is apparent, from a comparison of the
two patents, that the reissue was made to enlarge the scope of
the original. As the rule is expressed in the recent case of
MAahn v. lalrtoood, 112 U. S. 354, a patent "cannot be lawfully reissued for the mere purpose of enlarging the claim, unless there has been a clear mistake, inadvertently committed,
in the wording of the claim, and the application for a reissue
is made within a reasonably short period after th6 original
patent was granted." But a clear mistake, inadvertently committed in the wording of the claim, is necessary, without reference to the length of time. In the present case, there was no
mistake in the wording of the claim of the original patent.
The description warranted no other claim. It did not warrant
any claim covering bands not short or sectional. The description had to be changed in the reissue, to warrant the new
claims in the reissue. The description in the reissue is not a
more clear and satisfactory statement of what is described in
the original patent, but is a description of a different thing, so
ingeniously worded as to cover collars with continuous long
bands and which have no short or sectional bands. The draw-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabus.

ings show no continuous band; and the statement in the original patent, that "the use of the short or sectional bands produces a saving of material, as compared to the old style of
continuous band," shows that the patentee was drawing a
sharp contrast between the only bands he contemplated-short
or sectional bands-and a continuous band, of one piece of
material, as long as the collar. The original patent industriously excluded from its scope a continuous band. In the reissue, to cover a continuous graduated band, the two bands B B
are converted into a single band composed of the parts B B,
and, while that is described as extending along the top or body
of the collar, the "shorter graduated bands" are described as
saving material, as compared with an old style continuous
band, of uniform width.
While we are of opinion that the views of the Circuit Court,
as before recited, were erroneous, we presume that if this case
had been decided after January, 1882, the decree would not
have been for the plaintiff.
The decree qf the Circuit Court is reversed, and the case is
remanded to that court, with a direction.to dimziss the bll,
with costs.

SPAIDS v. COOLEY.
TN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMiBIA.
Argued January 19,1885.-Decided February 2, 1885.

The declaration in an action to recover money contained the money counts.
The defendant pleaded the' general issue, and the statute of limitation.
The plaintiff replied a new promise within the statutory time. At the
trial, before a jury, he offered in evidence a deposition, taken under a commission, to prove the new promise. The defendant objected to the deposition, hut did not state any ground of objection. The bill of exceptions set
forth, that the court "sustained the objection, and refused to permit the
said deposition to be read to the jury, and ruled it out because of its informality." The deposition appearing to be iegular in form ; and the evidence
contained in it, as to the new promise, being material, and such as ought to

