36S

OF THE UNITED STATES.

1820.
Mlarshall
V.

Beverley.

(CHANcEnY.)

MARSHALL V.

P. R.

BEVERLEY.

In 2quity, a final decree cannot be pronounced until all parties in
interest are brought before the Court.
'Where a bill was filed for a perpetual injunction, on judgments obtained on certain bills of exchange drawn by the plaintiff; and
negotiated to the defendant, and which had subsequently passed from
the latter into the bands of third persons, by whom the judgments
were obtained ; held, that the injunction could not be decreed until
their answers had come in, although the bill stated, and the defendant admitted, that he had paid the judgments, and was then the only
person interested in them, because such statement and admission
might be made by collusion.

from the Circuit Court of Virginia.
Carter Beverley, being indebted to the appellant,
Horace Marshall, assigned to him several bills of
exchange, amounting, in the aggregate, to 9001.
sterling, which had been drawn by the respondent,
Peter R. Beverley,. on Bird Beverley, of London, in
favour of the said Carter Beverley. These bills
were severally transferred, for valuable consideration;
by the appellant, to Luke Tiernan & Co., Stewart
APPEAL

Montgomery & Co., Jesse Eichelberger & Co., and

Cornelius and John Comegys; and having been forwarded by them to London for payment, were protested for non-acceptance and non-payment, and
so returned. Suits were instituted by these parties against Peter R. B everley, on which he confessed judgments. Having been taken in execuqon.
o..

4n

1AES

314
1820.
Marshall

eV

March 41 .

IN TIlE SUPREME COURT

and imprisoned, lie gave bond for the prison bounds,

which he broke.

A second series of suits were

brought on the prison bounds bonds, after judgments
on which, he filed the present bill against Horace
Marshall, Carter Beverley, Luke Tiernan & Co.,
Stewart Montgomery & Co., Jesse Eichelberger
Co., Cornelius and John Comegys, and John Brown,
charging usury in the transactions between Carter
Beverley and Horace Marshall, and a fraudulent
sale of certain slaves of Carter Beverley, on which
Horace Marshall retained a lien, as a collateral security for his debt; and charging, also, that although
the suits were in the name of Luke Tiernan and
others, (to whom the bills had been transferred,)
they were, in fact, for the complainant's benefit, he
having paid to his endorser what was due on those
bills. On these grounds, a perpetual injunction was
prayed for and awarded. The appellant, by his answer, admitted the last allegation ; but denied the
usury, and insisted that the sales of Carter Beverley's
negroes had been made in strict conformity with the
deed of trust under which they were sold. None of
the other defendants answered the bill.

This cause was argued by the .Attorney-General,
for the appellant, and by Mr. Jones and Mr. Taylor.
for the respondent.

oMarch 9th.

Mr. Justice LvINGSToN delivered the opinion of
the Court. This is an appeal from a decree in
equity, of the Circuit Court for the district of Vir-

Or THE UN[TED STATES.

to which the ibllowing objections have been
made:
1st. That thereis a defect of parties. Although all

the persons in interest are made defendants to the
bill, yet none of :em had anieared to it except the
appellant, on whose answer, and the proofs in the
cause, the decree was made.
2-d. Another objection is, that there was competent relief at law against the usurious contract stated
in the bill ; hut as no defence of this kind was there
set up, a Court -of Chancery ought not to have interfered, especially after judgment had been obtained
on the hills, and even on the prison bounds bonds,
which were taken on the execution which had issued
on those judgments.
3d. It is also contended, that .there was no usury
in any of the contracts between the appellant and
Carter Beverley, and that the sale of the negroes
under the deed of trust was fair, and in strict pursuance of the authority vested in the trustee.
4th, and lastly : Admitting the usury,'and a frand
in the sale, it is insisted that the respondent, being an
entire stranger to these transactions, had no right to
-call the appellant -o account, mor to any xelief as
against him.
The Court has had under its cnsideration all
these objections ; but wilt now give its opinion only
on the first of them. We are all satisfied, that when
this decree was pronounced, the case was not prepared for a final hearing. The bills, which had
been drawn by P. R. Beverley, baving passed by
Marshall into the bands of third persons, who hav

01b
1820.

v.

Beverley,.

316

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1820.

obtained judgments on them, and it being a principal

Marsbai

object of the suit to enjoin further proceedings on

V.

verey.

them, the parties in whose favour they were rendered, ought not only to have been made defendants, but
a perpetual injunction ought not to have been decreed until their answers were filed. Itwas not
enough in their absence that the complainant should
state, and the defendant admit, that the latter had
paid these judgments, and was now the only person
interested in them. This might be done by collusion,
and although that may not be the case here, it is not
the course of a Court of Equity, to make a decree
which is to operate directly upon the parties in interest, as the perpetual injunction does here, without
affording them an opportunity of being heard. For
this error, the decree must be reversed, and the cause
remanded for further proceedings.
Decree reversed.
DECREe.

This cause came on to be heard on the

transcript of the record of the Circuit Court, for the
district of Virginia, and was argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof, it is the opinion of this Court,
that the said Circuit Court erred in perpetually enjoining the proceedings on the judgments obtained
against the respondent, Peter R. Beverley, and the
appellant, Horace Marshall, because the bills of exchange, which had been drawn by the said Peter R.
Beverley, had passed into the hands of third persons,
by whom the said judgments bad been obtained, and
before the answers of such creditors, who had been
made defendants to said bill of complaint, had come

OF THE UNITED STATES.

in. It is therefore DECREED and ORDERED, that the
decree of the said Circuit Court in this case be, and
the same is hereby, reversed and annulled. And it
is further ordered, that the said cause be remanded to
the said Circuit Court for further proceedings to be
had therein according to law.

317
82o.
oh
Loughbo.

rough
V.

Blake.

(CO STITUTIONAL LAWT.)

LOUGHBOROUGH

v. BLAKE.

Congress has authority to impose a direct tax on the district of Columbia, in proportion to the census directed to be taken by the
constitution.
The power of Congress to levy and collect taxes, duties, imposts and
excises, is co-extensive with the territory of the United States.
The power of Congress to exercise exclusivejursdictionin all cases
whatsoever within the district of Columbia, includes the power of

taxing it.

THIS case, which was an action of trespass
brought in the Circuit Court for the district of Columbia, to try the right of Congress to impose a direct tax on that district, and in which the Court
below gave judgment for the defendant, was argued
by Mr. Jones for the plaintiff, and by the Attorney
Generalfor the defendant.

Marclzth.

Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opi- xarc 10.h.
nion of the Court. This case presents to the consideration ol the Court a single question. It is this;

