OF THE UNITED STATES.
1820.
have been committed in a certain haven, near the
island of Bonavista, out of the jurisdiction of any U. States
r.
particular State, and that it is not competent for a Pirates.
jury to find a general verdict of guilty on both
counts.
Upon which grounds, the Judges being divided in
opinion, it was ordered, that the indictment and proceedings thereon, together with the grounds of the
motion in arrest of judgment, be transcribed Uy the
cldrk of the Circuit Court, and certified by him, under the seal of the Court, and sent to this Court for
their decision.

The

UNITED STATES V. DAVID BOWERS

and

HENRY MATHEWS.

TrI prisoners were indicted before the Circuit

Court of Georgia, under the act of the 30th of April,
1790, c. 36. for a piratical robbery committed on a
ship, the property of British subjects, and called the
Sir Thomas Hardy, upon the high seas. The prisoners were citizens of the United States, and part
of the crew of the Louisa privateer, mentioned in
the preceding case. The prisoners were found guilty,
and their counsel moved that the judgment be arrested upon the following grounds, viz.:
1st. That the act of the 30th of April, 1790, c. 36.
eighth section, does not extend to piracy committed
by the crew q a foreign vessel on a vessel exclusively owned by persons not citizens of the United
States.
2d. That the eighth section of the act of the 30th

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

of April, 1790,c. 36. entitled, "an act for the punishent
n of certain crimes against the United States;'
has been virtually repealed by the act of the 3d of
March, 1819, c. 76. entitled, "an act to
protect the
commerce of the United States, and to punish the
crime of piracy,"
Upon which grounds, the Judges being divided
in opinion, it was ordered, that the indictment and
procedings thereon, together with the grounds of
the motion in arrest of judgment, be transciibed by
the clerk of the Circuit Court, and certified by him,
under the seal of the Court, and sent to this Court
for their decision.

1820.

U. State

V.

Feb. 21st.

Aftarck st.

These causes were argued by the Attorney General for the United States, and by Mr. Webster and
Mr. Winder, for the prisoners.
Mr. Justice JOHNSON delivered the opinion of the

Court. A variety of questions have been referred to
this Court in these cases, and in the decisions to be
certified to the Circuit Court, it will be necessary to
notice each question in every case; but in the opinion
now to be expressed, the whole may be considered
in connexion, as they all depend upon the construetion of the same laws.
Apimeyeoo on
mitred fr~om o

In the two cases offnI~
Smith and
n Klinto

, it has

board a vessel,
which
has
thrown ON her
national cha.

been already adjudged, that the 8th section of the
act of 1790 was not repealed by the 6th section of

ratpi,
b
le'ind

does not apply to the case of a crew, whose conduct

e- that of 1819, and that the decision in Palmer's case'
h

act of '9O, C.
35., whatever
might
have
been the originat
national
character
of
6 ch
vessel,

a The substance of their arguments will be found in the
preceding cases of the United States v. Klintock, ante, p. 144.
and the United States v. Smith, ante, p. 153.

195

OF THE UNITED STATES.

is such as to set at nought the idea of thus acting under allegiance to any acknowledged power.

From

which it follows, that when embarked on a piratical
cruize, every individual becomes equally punishable
under the law of 1790, whatever may be his national
character, or whatever may have been that of the
vessel in which he sailed, or of the vessel attacked.
This decision furnishes an answer to all those
questions made in the above cases, which are founded on distinctions in the national character of the
prisoner, or in that of the vessels, in relation to the
piracies committed by the crew of the Louisa. The
moment that ship was taken from her officers, and
"proceeded on a piratical cruize, the crew lost all
claim to national character, and whether citizens or
foreigners, became equally punishable under the act
of 1790. It also furnishes an answer to all the exceptions taken in the case of piracy charged against
Furlong. For whatever the Court might have
thought on the effect of the act of 1819, he would
have been still punishable under the act of 1790.
The indictment against him is general, against the
form of the statute in such case made and provided,
and it matters not that his offence was committed.
subsequent to passing the act of 1819, since the
other act still remains in force, and reaches his case.
It would seem to be unnecessary to go further in
the cases against Furlong, as this conclusion decides
his fate ; but this Court cannot foresee how far it
may be necessary to the administration of justice,
against accessories or otherwise, that the question in
the cases of murder should also be decided.
VOL. 11

is20.
V.
Pirates.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

194
1820.
U. States

V.

The Courts
of the United

The question whether murder committed at sea
on board a foreign vessel be punishable by the laws
of the United States, if committed by a foreigner
upon a foreigner, is one which involves a variety
of
considerations, and which, in the two cases before us,
is presenled under an obvious distinction ; on the
one indictment it appears as having been committed
simply on board the Anne of Scarborough, a foreign
vessel, by a foreigner upon a foreigner ; on the other,
as committed on board the Anne of Scarborough,
from an American vessel by a mariner of the American vessel. It is obvious that neither case comes
within the express words of the decision in Palmer's
case. And with regard to the case in which the
American vessel is brought in view, there can exist
but one difficulty.
No difference can be supposed to exist between
case of a murder committed on the seas by
means of a gun discharged from a vessel, and by

Stat.sbave u-the

rt~diction ofEa

Ijurdt r connitted on the
high seas from'
. ressel belonging to the
U.Sates, by a
foreigner, beboard
igu
o-uhvessel,
npon another
foreigner being
on bo(rd of a
foreign vessel.

means of a boat's-crew despatched for that purpose,
as was actually the case here. And as to the right
of the United States to punish all offences committed
on or from on board their own vessels, it cannot be
doubted nor has it been doubted that the act of
1790 extends to such offences when committed on
the seas. But, we have decided, that in becoming a
pirate, the Mary of Mobile, from which the prisoner
committed this offence, lost her national character.
Could she then be denominated an American vessel ?
We are of opinion, that the question is immaterial;
for, whether as an American or a pirate ship, the of-

OF "THE UNITED STATES;

fence committed from her was equally punishable,
and the words of the act extend to her in both characters. But if it were necessary to decide the questhat
tion, we should find no difficulty in maintaining,

195
18o,
U. States

V.

no man shall, by crime, put off an incident to his situation which subjects him to punishment. A claim
to protection may be forfeited by the loss of national
character, where no rights are acquired, or immunity
of
produced by that cause. The other case presents a The
the Cours
United
States have not
question of more difficulty. It includes the case of Jtnlsdiction
of
a murder committed by one of a crew upon another, .u'rdercnrnitted by one
on board a foreign vessel on the high seas. The pri- fore-mer on,
soner is a British subject, the deceased was the same, aeinr
, iboa
ognbvesand the ship also British.
safoeign
This, though not in all its circumstances the same,
is in principle precisely that of the United States v.
Palmer. The only difference is, that the case of
Palmer supposes the prisoner and the deceased to
belong to different vessels, and the certificate of the
Court would seem to cover the case of an American
as well as a foreigner, who commits an offence on
board a foreign vessel.
So far as relates to the point now under consideration, I have no objection to accede to the decision
in the case of Palmer. I did not unite in the opinion
of the Court in that case, on this point, because I
thought it was carried too far in being extended to
piracyas well as murder, and to American citizens as
well as foreigners. To me it appears, that the only
fair deduction from the obvious want of precision in
language and in thought, discoverable in the act of
1790, and insisted on in the case of Palmer, is, that in

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1820.

V.
Pirates.

construing it we should test each case by a reference
to the punishing powers of the body that enacted it.
The reasonable presumption is, that the. legislature
intended to legislate only on cases within the scope
of that power; and general words made use of in
that law, ought not, in my opinion, to be restricted
so as to exclude any cases within their natural meaning. As far as those powers extended, it is reasonable to conclude, that Congress intended to legislate,
unless their express language shall preclude that
conclusion.
It is true, that the 8th section declares murder as
well as robbery to be piracy; but, in my view, if any
thing is to be inferred from this association, itis only
that they meant to assert the right of punishing murder to the same extent that they possessed the right
of punishing piracy; which would be carrying the
construction beyond what I contend for. The contrary conclusion, viz. that they meant to limit the
cases of piracy made punishable under that act, to
the cases in which they might, upon principle, punish
murder, is rebutted by the generality of the terms
used; and it would seem that, with this object in
view, they ought to have taken the contrary course,
and declared piracy to be murder.
It is obvious that the penman who drafted the
section under consideration, acted from an indistinct
view of the divisions of his subject. He has blended all crimes punishable under the admiralty juris-diction in the general term of piracy. But there
exist well-known distinctions between the crimes
of piracy and murder, both as to constituents and

OF THE UNITED STATES.

1820.
incidents. Robbery on the seas is considered as
an offence within the criminal jurisdiction of all na- U. States
V.
tions. It is against all, and punished by all; and there
Pirates,
can be no doubt that the plea of autre fois acquit
would be good in any civilized State, though resting
on a prosecution instituted in the Courts of any other
civilized State. Not so with the crime of murder.
It is an offence too abhorrent to the feelings of man, to
have made it necessary that it also should have been
brought within this universal jurisdiction. And
hence, punishing it when committed within the jurisdiction, or, (what is the same thing,) in the vessel
of another nation, has not been acknowledged as a
right, much less an obligation. It is punishable under the laws of each State, and I am inclined to
think that an acquittal in this case would not have
been a good plea in a Court of Great Britain. Testing my construction of this section, therefore, by the
rule that I have assumed, I am led to the conclusion,
that it does not extend the punishment for murder to
the case of that offence committed. by a foreigner
upon a foreigner in a foreign ship. But otherwise
as to piracy, for that is a crime within the acknowledged reach of the punishing power of Congress.
As to our own citizens, I see no reason why they
should be exempted from the operation of the laws
of the country, even though in foreign service. Their
subjection to those laws follows them every where;
in our own Courts they are secured by the constitution from being twice put in jeopardy of life or
member, and if they are also made amenable to the

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1820.
U. States

PirVtes.

laws of another State, it is the result of their own

act in subjecting themselves to those laws.

Nor is it any objection to this opinion, that the law
declares murder to be piracy. These are things so
essentially different in their nature, that not even the
omnipotence of legislative power can confound or
identify them. Had Congress, in this instance, de.clared piracy to be murder, the absurdity would have
been felt and acknowledged; yet, with a view to
the exercise of jurisdiction, it would have been more
defensible than the reverse, for, in one case it would
restrict the acknowledged scope of its legitimate
powers, in the other extend it. If by calling murder piracy, it might assert a jurisdiction over that
offence committed by a foreigner in a foreign vessel,
what offence might not be brought within their
power by the same device ? The most offensive interference with the governments of other nations
might be defended on the precedent. Upon the
whole, I am satisfied that Congress neither intended
to punish murder in cases with which they had no
right to interfere, nor leave unpunished the crime of
piracy in any cases in which they might punish it:
and this view of the subject appears to me to furnish
the only sufficient key to the construction of the 8th
section of the act of 1790.
As to piracy, since the decision that a vessel, by
assuming a piratical character, is no longer included
in the description of a foreign vessel, no case of difficulty can occur, unless the piracy be committed by
the crew of a foreign vessel upon their own vessel,
or by persons issuing immediately from shore. If

OF THE UNITED STATES.

199

1820.
such cases occur under the act of 1790, 1 shall rebe
it
if
case,
spectfully solicit a revision of Palmer's
U. States
v.
considered as including those cases. And shall do
Pirates,
an
by
committed
the same in the case of murder
American in a foreign ship, if it ever occur ; under
the belief that it never could have been the intention
of Congress that such an offender should find this
country a secure assylum to him.
Thereare a few minor points presented. in these
cases, which it is necessary to notice.
It was moved in favour of the prisoners, that the Itsaryis notneces.
to prodocuonly legal testimony of the character of the ships duce
mentary eri.
plundered, must have relation to their register, or dence, in order
rather, to the documentary papers which establish naliepaI cha-

racter of a yes.
n in.

their national character. But this we think wholly d ' on
indefensible. It is obvious, that such testimony might pirac..
be suppressed in various ways by the aggressors.
Nor is it at all decisive of the real ownership of a
vessel. Our laws recognize the possibility of the register's existing in the name of one, whilst the property is really in another person. The laws that require such documents to be on board a vessel, have
relation to financial, commercial, or inter-national
objects, but are not decisive or necessary in a prosecution for this offence. Property or character is -a
matter in pais,and so to be established. However,
it is unnecessary to examine the question farther, as
we have decided, that the national character of the
vessels plundered was, in these cases, wholly immaterial to the crime.
It was also moved, in two of the cases of piracy,
that as the offences charged were com~mitted on yes-

200

0ASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1820.
U. States

V.

sels then lying at anchor near the shore of the islands
of Mayo and Bonavista, in a road, and within a marifle league of the shore, the prisoners could not be

Pirates.

convicted:
1. Because the words, " out of the jurisdiction of
any particular State," in the 8th section of the act
of 1790, includes foreign, as well as domestic States.
2. Because a vessel at anchor in a road, is not a
vessel on the high seas, as charged in the indictment.
On the first point, we think it obvious, that out of
The words,
out of thejurisdictio
-of
any
particular State, must be construed to mean
any particular
State," in the
17o, c.
act ofconstrued..
36.

"toeexm
Out of

any one of the United States."

By exam-

to refer only to mmg the context, it will be seen, that particularState
a particular
State
of the
Fgtnioni.

unfrlcniaslctn

is uniformly used in contradistinction to UnitedStates.
For what reason, it is not easy to imagine;
but it is

obvious, that the only piracies omitted to be punished by that act, are land piracies, and piracies committed in our waters.
_ vessel lying
On the second point, we are of opinion, that a yesin an open
roadstead
of a sel in an open road may well be found by a jury to
foreign coun-.
tr,
1 u,,the is
high seas"
within the act
of 190, c. 36.

3. 8.

be on the seas.

It is historically known, that in pro-

secuting trade with many places, vessels lie at anchor in open situations, (and especially where the

trade winds blow) under the lee of the land. Such
vessels are neither in a river, haven, basin or bay, and
are no where, unless it be on the seas. Being at anchor
is immaterial, for this might happen in a thousand
places in the open ocean, as on the Banks of Newfoundland. Nor can it be objected that it was
within the jurisdictional limits of a foreign State ;

OF THE UNITED STATES.

for, those limits though neutral to war, are not netitral to crimes.

It was also moved, in the same cases, that as there
were two counts in the indictment, the one charging
the offences as committed on the high seas, the other

1820.

U. States

V.

Pirates,
Each

co.t

i,

." ditint

in a haven, basin or bay, a general verdict of guilty ,sandi

could not be sustained on account of repugnancy
and inconsistency, as both facts could not be true.

verdict
the
conformtoany
of the
one

which
Founts,
in itself will

But, on this, it is only necessary to remark, that each suportt itl
count is a distinct substantive charge. Internal re- sfient.

pugnancy in any one is a good exception, but nom
constat as to the whole, taken severally, but each
may be for a distinct offence.
of
There is,. finally, another question certified to. this theA U.citzen
States,
out
a
Court, in one of the cases which arose under the h,,ine
United
the
of
an
states,
to
captures made by the Louisa. It is, whether
aainst
cuizeo
American
an
in
vessel
a
out
fitting
a power in,
American citizen,
the
a power at peace with amity with
cruize against
port, really toportrealy
States,
aginstUnited
is not protect-

the United States, is protected by a commission from edby.forig
rom",'usha power belligerent as to the power against which meat
for any
comofnce against
he undertakes to cruize, from offences committed by
•
mitted
Uesels o the
him against the United States?
of this question is
It will be seen, that the object

to bring the whole crew of the Louisa under the
immunities which it is supposed Almeida might have
claimed by virtue of his commission. But, having
decided that the vessel and crew had forfeited all
pretensions to national or belligerent character, this
question is anticipated. Yet, lest the ingenious views
on this point, presented to the Court by one of the
geatlemen who argued it, should tempt the unwary
into practices that may be fatal to them, we think it
VOL. V.

CASES IN THE SUPR1EME COURT

1.12,.
U

U. States

V.

proper to remark, that in Klintock's case it has been
decided, that a belligerent character may be put off,
and a piratical one assumed, even under the most unquestionable commission. And if
the laws of the
United States declare those acts piracy in a citizen,
when committed on a citizen, which would be only
belligerent acts when committed on others, there can
be no reason why such laws should not be enforced.
For this purpose the 9th section of the act of 1790
appears to have been passed. And it would be difficult to induce this Court to render null the provisions
of that clause, by deciding either that one who takes
a commission under a foreign power, can no longer be
,deemed a citizen, or that all acts committed under
such a commission, must be adjudged belligerent, and
not piratical acts.
The UNITED STATES V. JOHN FURLONG, alias
JOHN HoBsoN.
CERTIMcATE.-This cause came on to be heard
on the transcript of the record of the Circuit Court
of the United States for the District of Georgia, and
on the question on which the Judges of that Court
were divided in opinion, and was argued by counsel.
On consideration whereof, this Court is of opinion,
that the 8th section of the act of the 30th of April,
1790, on which the indictment is founded, is not repealed by the act of the 3d of March, 1819, entitled, ," an act to protect the commerce of the
United States, and to punish the crime of piracy."

