CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1sn.
The London

racket.

district of Georgia, and on the farther proof exhibited
in this cause, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is DECREED and ORDERED, that
the decree of the Circuit Court for the district of
Georgia in this case, condemning the cargo of the
ship Venus, be, and the same is, hereby reversed and
annulled. And this Court, proceeding to pass such
decree as the said Circuit Court should have passed,
it is further DECREED and ORDERED, that the said cargo
of the ship Venus be restored to the claimant; and it
is further decreed, that the said claimant pay to the
libellants the costs and expenses incurred in the prsecution of this suit.

(PRIZE.)

The LONDON PACKE.-Merino, Claimant.
A question of proprietary interest on farther proof. Restitution decreed, with costs and expenses to be paid by the claimant.
In general, the circumstance ofgoods being found on board an enemy's
ship raises a legal presumption that they are enemy's property.

THis was the claim of a Spanish subject, to a
parcel of hides laden on board of the London Packet,
a British ship, at the port of Buenos Ayres, in South
America, in the month of June, 1813. The London Packet, on her voyage to London, was captured
by the private armed brig the Argus, and carried

OF THE UNITED STATES.

into Boston for adjudication. On beinglibelled in the

182o.

District Court as prize of war, the consul of his The London
Catholic Majesty filed a claim for the property in .,Paokot.
question in favour of Don Jeronimo Merino, a Spanish subject. The District Court condemned the
vessel and the whole of the cargo, except these hides,
which were restored to the claimant, the Court being
satisfied there was not such proof of enemy's property
therein, as to authorize a decree of condemnation.
For the ship and residue of the cargo no claim was
interposed. From this decree, as to the hides, there
was an appeal by the captors to the Circuit Court,
where the same was reversed. The Court, although
it reversed the sentence which had been pronounced
.below, expressed its entire satisfaction as to the
national character and domicil of the claimant, and
.that the hides had been originally shipped by him;
but condemned the property, because, on the order
for farther proof, no affidavit had been offered, either
of the claimant or his confidential agent, or clerk, of
his interest in the cargo at the time of the shipment.
It was considered, that the'absence of such a document, so universally expected and required by prize
tribunals, unavoidably threw a suspicion over the
cause, and being wholly unaccounted for, it atithorized a belief that there had been a voluntary, if not a
studied omission on the claimant' part. At the same
term in which the. sentence of reversal -was. pronounced, but not until after such sentence wag
known, the affidavit of the claimant, which had been
received since the last adjournment of the Court,
was produced by the Spanish Consul, with a petition

13,4
1820.
'eodo

The London

Packet.

CASES IN THE SUPREIME COURT

that the decree might be rescinded, for the purpose
of admitting it into the case, or that the same might
be so far opened, for the consideration of the Court,
as to make the affidavit of Merino a part of the evidence therein, so as to accompany the other testimony in the appeal to this Court. Upon this application the Circuit Court ordered, that the affidavit
should be received by the clerk, and sent up with
the other papers de bene esse, subject to the directions of this Court. The affidavit had been taken
on an order below for farther proof, but had not been
received, as has been stated, when the decree of condemnation was pronounced.a
Mr. Webster and Mr. Pitman, for the captors, argued, that it was a well-settled principle in the Prize
Court, that the onus probandi, lies on the claimant.
"In the Prize Court," says Sir Wm. Scott, "where
special reasons for deception are perpetually occurring, and where the Court exercises a much more
unconfined jurisdiction on questions of property than
it exercises in its civil forum, proof of property lies
generally on the claimant, and he may be called upon
to support the prima facie evidence of a good title
which is already exhibited.' b This burden would
lave rested on the claimant in the present case if the
goods in question had been found on board of a neutral
ship ; but it is increased by the fact that the property
was found on board an enemy's ship, and an enemy's
a Vide S. C. I Mason's Rep. 14: Ante, vol. II. 371.
b The Countess of Lauderdale, 4 Rob. 234-

185

OF THE UNITED STATES.

iso.
armed ship. The maxim as laid down by Grotius,
LondoU
The
hostiur,
esse
presumuntur
navibus
is: " Res hostium
donec contrariumprobetur." A presumption which, Packet.nevertheless, may be destroyed by strongproofs to
the contrary.a In this case, the property was not
only found on board an enemy's armed ship, but was
unaccompanied by the documentary evidence required.to prove its neutrality. No papers were found
at the time of capture relating to the cargo, except
the bills of lading; and all the letters and invoices
were sunk by the order of the master of the London
Packet, in the letter bag, as sworn by two of the
crew upon their examination on the standing interrogatories. The spoliation of papers, is, therefore,
superadded to the fact of the property being found
on board a ship of the enemy, destined to an enemy's port; and the claimant is called upon to produce the strongest, and most satisfactory proof to destroy the many presumptions arising from these facts,
that, in truth, the property belongs to the enemy.
The claimant has had abundant opportunity afforded
him to produce this proof. The first order for further proof was made in the District Court the 26th
of November, 1813, and the claimant was indulged
until nearly the close of the year 1815, in the Courts
below, to establish the verity of his claim. Having
failed so to do, this Court afforded him further time,
and he has had from February,-1816, until this term,
a period of four years, to produce plenary proof in
a De Jure Belli ac Pac. b. 3. c. 6. s. 6.
1. 1. c. 13. Loccenius, 1.2. c. 4. n.I1.

Birnk. Q. .L Piel.

CASES IN TIE SUPREME COURT
1820.
The0ondon

The London

Packet,

reference to a claim so much indulged, and surrounded with so many circumstances of suspicion. If the
claimant has failed to produce this proof, the presumption is irresistible, that his claim must be false.
In such a suspicious case too, something more is to
be expected from the claimant himself, than "a mere
test affidavit, which is all the evidence (coming from
himself) which the claimant has yet furnished.

Mr. D. B. Ogden and Mr. Winder, contra, admitted the rule of the Prize Court, that property
found on board an enemy's vessel is presumed to be
enemy's property: but, for this very reason, they
insisted, such a vessel would seldom be made the
vehicle of enemy's property intended to be covered
as neutral.- The records of the Court would show
that in a great majority of the cases, where attempts
have been made to disguise enemy's property, such
attempts have been made by lading the goods on
board a neutral vessel, in order to avoid that suspicion on which the rule of law is founded. But in
this case, the presumption itself can have but little
weight; because it appears in evidence that the
claimant'was compelled, by necessity, to lade his
goods on board an enemy's vessel, there being, at
that time none but British ships, at Buenos Ayres,
destined for Europe, for which market his goods
were intended. Some indulgence is due to the subjects of neutral States, who not having sufficient
shipping of their own to carry on their trade, are
compelled to resort to the navigation of other couna The Magnus, I Rob. 31.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

tries, which may happen to be belligerent. Nor can
th6 circumstance of a spoliation of papers by the
enemy master hake any unfavourable effect upon the
claim of a neutral shipper conducting, bona ficle.
Even the actual resistance of the enemy master will
not preclude the neutral shipper from receiving restitution, unless he participates in such resistance,
and thus forfeits the privileges of his neutral character.b The counsel on both sides also argued
upon the facts, with great minuteness and ability.

182o.

The Londft
P'acket.

Mr. Justice LI 'NGSTON delivered the opinion of Feb. 20th.
the Court. In the argument of this cause, the counsel
have not confined themselves to the effect which the
affidavit of the claimant ought of itself to have upon
the decision of itbut have animadverted on all the testimony below. The Court has, therefore, also extended its examination to all the proofs in the causes
and will now pronounce its judgment on them.
Pr--umion
The captured vessel was confessedly British pro- arising
rn
fact of the
the
perty, as well as a great part of its cargo, and its desbeing
* goods
tination was to a port in the enemy's country, which foundonboar,
raises a legal presumption, that the property claimed ,,o.,eL .
was not neutral; It is not denied, that a neutral may
use the vessel of a belligerent, for the transportation
of his goods, and whatevei presumption may arise
from the ciicumstance; that it is not of itself a cause
of condemnation. In this case, it does not appear,
nor was it probably the fact, that any nehtral vessel
a The Friendschaft, 3 W'heat. 14. 48.
b The Nereide, 9 Cranch,388. 423.
VOL. V.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

182o0.
Thc London
Packet.

bound to London, was then at Buenos Ayres, and,

therefore, this presumption ought to have but little
influence on the present decision. If the proprietary
interest be satisfactorily made out, the claimant is
entitled to restitution.
There was no letter found on board from Merino
to his correspondent in London, nor any invoice of
this property. The only document relating to it was
a bill of lading in Spanish, dated.the 19th of June,
1813, purporting that 6,276 hides had been shipped
on board the London Packet, by Jeronimo Merino,
on his account and risk, to be delivered to Antonio
Daubana, or in his absence to William Heiland, they
paying the freight therein stipulated. This bill of
lading was not signed by the master. To the omission of a signature to this bill of lading, much importance cannot be attached. It was found in possession of the master, and serving only as a memorandum for him of the cargo on board; and not being
intended to pass into the hands of any other persons,
it was a matter of indifference whether he put his
name to it, or not. Of seven bills of lading which
were found on board, no less than three were without his signature. Those which were delivered to
the shippers, were, no doubt, signed, which was all
that was necessary for their security. If this bill of
lading be compared with the one produced, and proved
by Daubana, it is impossible not to be struck with
the exact similarity between them. They correspond
in all respects, excepting only that one has not the
signature of the captain, and appears most manifestly
to have been filled up with the same ink, and in the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

same hand-writing, and at the same time; which is 1820.
no small proof of their being cotemporaneous acts, The""I'
London
and of the authenticity of the one which is now Vak,.
produced by the consignee. But no letter from Merino to his correspondent, nor any invoice, nor any
bill of lading for the consignee, being found on board,
it is urged, that the proof of proprietary interest is
defective, and that the sentence of condemnation
ought, therefore, to be affirmed. Had no farther
proof been introduced, relieving the case from this
difficulty* the argument would be entitled to great
consideration. But the absence of those papers is
now accounted for. It appears by the testimony of
Stephenson, a passenger on board the London Packet, who was examined by the captors, that a large
bag, containing a great number of private letters,
and other papers, was sunk by order of the master
,of the London Packet, about half an hour before
his vessel was taken. It is then but a fair presumption, that the letter, invoice, and bill of lading trans-.
mitted by Merino to his correspondent in London,
were among the papers thus destroyed. The loss of
these papers being thus accounted for, and the master
of the captured ship not being brought in as he
ought to have been, there was a propriety under the
peculiar circumstances <of this case, in affording, as
the Court below did, an opportunity to the Spanish
owner, of offering subsidiary proof respecting the
property mentioned in the bill of lading found ork
board, and which was claimed by him. This farther proof, which consists of documents from tho
custom house at Buenos Ayres, of the positive testi-

CASES IN T1E SUPREME COURT
1820.
The London
Packet.

mony of Mr. Daubana, the consignee in London,
and of the test-affidavit of Mr. Merino himself, is
satisfactory, that the proprietary interest of these
hides was, at the time of shipment and of capture,
in the claimant. That they belonged to Smith notwithstanding the mark of S. on some of them, as
has been suggested, cannot be believed. On that
supposition, his conduct is utterly inexplicable. If
the adventure was on his account, the disguise of
the shipment could have been intended for no other
purpose than to impose, as to them, on the Courts of
the United States; for this contrivance or cover could
not protect his vessel from capture and condemnation. Yet, if we believe some of the witnesses,
Smith declared, that the whole of the cargo belonged to himself, and some merchants in London.
These declarations of Smith, as lie was set at liberty
by the captain of the Argus, and, of course, not examined on the standing interrogatories, ought not to
militate against the integrity of the present claim
but if they were really made, they afford strong evilence, that if this bill of lading were designed as a
cover for belligerent property, some other person,
and not Smith, was to be benelitted by it. For if he
were the real owner, why, it may be asked, did he
voluntarily abandon the property, (for he was put on
board of another vessel, at his own request,) at the
very moment when this fraud, if he ever intended to
avail himself of it, was to be consummated ? Why
did he not remain in his vessel until her arrival in the
.United States, and apply to a Spanish Consul, or
some other gentleman, to prefer a claim in favour of

OF THE UNITED STATES.

1820.
the pretended Spanish owner? Why did he not support this claim with his own oath, as he must have in- The Lonaon
tended to do if he ever intended to derive any advan- Packet.
tage from a contrivance which must have had its
inception at Buenos Ayres, at his instigation, and
for his emolument ? There is no accounting for his
conduct on any other hypothesis, than that he had no
interest in this property, and was, therefore, willing
to leave it to its fate.
The counsel for the captors, aware of the full and
conclusive nature of the proof, so far as it establishes
Merino's interest in the merchandize claimed by
him, have endeavoured to show that Merino was not
at Buenos Ayres when this shipment took place, and
if he was, that it is impossible that his letter, which
bears date the 10th of July, 1813, could have been
put on hoard of the London Packet, which had sailedon the 24th of June, fourteen days before. If this
be so, a gross attempt has been made to impose on
the Court, which ought to be followed with consequences fatal to the present claim. But the Court
is not of opinion that either of these suppositions is
supported by the evidence. Not a single witness
whose testimony is relied on to establish the fact of
Merino's not being at Buenos Ayres at the time of
the shipment, speaks with any certainty, or tells us
affirmatively where he then was. This negative testimony, which, if it stood alone and uncontradicted,
might excite a strong suspicion, is rendered of very
little consequence, by much proof of a contrary character. The custom house document which has
"alreadybeen referred to, establisles the residence of

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1o.
Merino at Buenos Ayres at the date of the shipment "
rbe London so does the affidavit of Merino himself, who is proved
to be a gentleman of character, of property, and rePacket.
spectability. Daubana also swears to the same fact,
with as much certainty as one correspondent can
establish the domicil of another residing at so great
a distance from each other. He proves that Merino
remained there until the 15th of August following,
at least, that he received a letter from him, dated at
Buenos Ayres, on that day. Another witness, who
saw him at Rio Janeiro in the year 1814, says, that
he did not leave Buenos Ayres until after the middle
of the year 1813. The weight of testimony, therefore, may be considered as in favour of the claimant
being at Buenos Ayres when this shipment was
made. Nor is it so certain, as seemed to be taken for
granted at the bar, that the London Packet sailed on
her voyage for Europe on the 24th of June, 1813.
It is true, that the cook, and some others who were
examined in preparatorio, fix the time of her departure to that day ; but the second mate, and only
officer of the captured vessel who was examined, and
who was most likely to know, says that she sailed
in the month of July. Under this uncertainty respecting a fact which is deemed so material, and to
which the claimant's attention has never been called,
it cannot be expected that the Court should not only
act upon it, as positively proved, but follow it up
with the condemnation of property so clearly proved
to belong to a neutral. It would be more charitable,
and not unreasonable, even if the fact were proved,
to presume that witnesses were speaking of the time

OF THE UNITED STATES.
is2o.
of the London Packet's first weighing anchor at Bureason
or
other
The
Landon
enos Ayres, and that she may for some
have been detained in the river until the Oth of July, Packet.
which is the date of Merino's first letter to his correspondent in London. It may be added, that it is
not easy t6 believe, that if a fraud were intended,
care would not have been taken to make the letter of
advice, and all the other papers, correspond with the
time of the departure of the vessel.
Upon the whole, a majority of the judges are of w Restittion
be
expenses
by to the
opinion, that upon the farther proof the sentence of paid
claimant.
prothe
and
the Circuit Court should be. reversed,
perty restored to the claimant. But as the captors
have been put to great expense in consequence of
the imperfect documents found on board, and the
great delay which has attended the production of the
farther proof, they are of opinion that their costs
and expenses must be paid by the claimant.

Decree reversed.
DECREE.-This cause came on to be heard on
the transcript of the record of the Circuit Court of
the United States for the District of Massachusetts,
and the farther proof exhibited in this cause, and was
argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is
DECREED and ORDERED, that the Decree of the Circuit Court for the District of Massachusetts in this
case, condemning six thousand two hundred and
seventy-six ox hides, as good ald lawful prize to the
libellants, be and the same is hereby reversed and annulled. And this Court, proceeding to pass such

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1820.
U. States

V.

Decree as the said Circuit Court should have passed,
it is further DECREED and ORDERED, that the said six

thousand two hundred and seventy-six ox hides, be
restored to the claimant: And it is further DECREED,

that the said Claimant pay to the Libellants the costs
and expenses incurred in the prosecution of this suit.

The UNITED STATES V. KLINTOCK.

A commission issued by Aury, as "Brigadier of the Mexican republic," (a republic wnose existence is unknown and unacknowledged,)
or as " Generalissimo of the Floridas," (a province in the possession
of Spain,) will not authorize armed vessels to make captures at sea.
Qumre-Whether a person acting with good faith under such a commission may be guilty of piracy?
However this may be, in general; under the particular circumstances
of this case, showing that the seizure was made, not jure belli, but
animo furandi, the commission was held not to exempt the prisoner from the charge of piracy.
The act of the 30th of April, 1790, c. 36. s. 8. extends to all persons,
on board all vessels, which throw off their national character by
cruizing piratically, and committing piracy on other vessels.

Tins was an indictment in the Circuit Court of
Virginia, against Ralph Klintock, a citizen of the
United States, charging him with a piracy committed on the high seas, in April, 1818, on a vessel called the Norberg, belonging to persons to tle
jurors unknown. He was found guilty generally.
The facts stated were, that the prisoner is a citizen of the United States; that the vessel in which
he sailed as first lieutenant was called the Young

