CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

of April, 1790,c. 36. for a piratical robbery, committed
The offence
U. States
Stas on an American ship. Verdict, guilty.
U.
was committed on a vessel of the United States, from a
v.
Pirates. vessel of the United States, which had been run away
1-0.

with by the captain and crew. The prisoner is an
English subject. It was moved bythe prisoner's cpun,sel, that the judgment be arrested, on the ground, that
the .,th section of the act of 30th of April, 1790, c. 36.
on which the indictment is founded, is virtually repealed by the act of the dd of March, 1819, c. 76. entitled,
"Can act to protect the commerce of the United States,
and punish the crime of piracy." Upon which ground
the Judges being divided in opinion, upon the request
of the counsel for the prisoner, it was ordered, that
the indictm.ent and proceedings thereon, together with
the grounds of the defendant's motion in arrest of
judgment, be transcribed by the clerk of the Circuit
Court, and certified by him, under the seal of the
Court, and sent to this Court for their decision.

The UNITED

STATES v. BENJA.r1N BRAILSFORD and
JAMUEs GRIvFEN.

THE prisoners were indicted before the Circuit
Court of South Carolina, for piracy on an American
ship, under the act of Congress of the .30th of April,
1790, c. 36. The Court divided on the following
*questions:
1st. Whether an American citizen, fitting
out a
vessel in an American port, really to cruize against a
power at peace with the United States, is protected
by a commission from a belligerent from punishment

OF THE UNITED STATES.

for any offence committed by him against vessels of
the.United States.
2d. Whether it is competent for a jury to find, that
a vessel within a marine league of the shore, at anchor in an open roadstead, where vessels only ride
under shelter of the land at a season when the course
of the winds is invariable, is upon the high seas.
3d. Whether the words, out of 'the jurisdiction of
any particular State, in the 8th section of the act of
Congress, of the 30th of April, 1790,c. 36. entitled, an
act for the punishment of certain crimes against the
United States, must he construed to mean, out.of the
jurisdiction of any particular State of the United
States.
4th. Whether the said 8th section of the said act
is virtually repealed by the 5th section of the act of
Congress, of March 3d, 1819, c. 76.
5th. Whether the said 6th section of the said act
of March 3d, 1819, c. 76. furnishes any, and what
definition of the crime of piracy.
The

UNITED STATES

v.

DAVJD BOWERS

and HENRY

MATHEWS.

THE prisoners were indicted before the Circuit
Court of Georgia, under the act of 30th of April,
1790, c. 36. for a piratical vobbery committed on an
American ship. Verdict, guilty. The prisoners
were part of the crew of the Louisa privateer, who
rose upon their officers in October, 1818, and putting
them out of the ship, proceeded on a piratical cruize.
The Louisa was commissioned by the republic of

1820.
U. States

v.

