412

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1820.
U. States
V.

Holmes..

(LAW 6F NATION.

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW.)

THE UNITED STATES V. HOLMES et al.
The Courts of the United States have jurisdiction under the act of the
30th of April, 1790, c. 36. of murder or robbery committed on the
high seas, although not committed on board a vessel belonging to
citizens of the United States, as if she had no national character,
but wag held by pirates, or persons not lawfully sailing under the
flag of any foreign nation.
1n the same case, and under the same act, if the offence be committed
on board of a foreign vessel by a citizen of the United States, or on
board a vessel of the United States by a foreigner, or by a citizen
or foreigner on board of a piratical vessel, the offence is equally
cpgniz~ble by the Courts of the United States.
It makes no difference in such a case, and under the same act, whetherthe offence was committed on board of a vessel, or in the sea, as by
throwing the deceased overboard and drowning him, or by shooting
him when in the sea though be was not thrown overboard.

THE prisoners were indicted at the Circuit Court
of Massachusetts, at the October term of said Court,
1818, for that the prisoners being citizens of the
United States, on the fourth day of July then last
past, with force and arms, upon the high seas, out of
the jurisdiction of any particular State, in and on
board a certain schooner or vessel, the name whereof
being to the jurors unknown, in and upon a person
known, and commonly called by the name of Reed,
a mariner, in and on board said vessel, in the peace
of God, and of the said United States, then and there
being, piratically, &c., did make an assault; and that
tbey, the said William Holmes, Thomas Warrington

ft THE UNITED STATES.

413

1820.
otherwise called Warren Fawcett, and Edward
Rosewain, with a certain steel dagger, &c. which
v.
he, the said William Holmes, in his right hand, then
Holmes.
commonly
person
said
the
held,
and
had
and there
called Reed, in and upon the arms and breast of
him, the said Reed, upon the high seas, and on board
the vessel aforesaid, and out of the jurisdiction of
any particular State, piratically, &c. did strike and
thrust, giving to the said person commonly called
Reed, in and upon the arms and breast of him, the
said Reed, upon the high seas, in and on board the
vessel aforesaid, and out of the jurisdiction of any
particular State, piratically, &c. in and upon the
said arms and breast of him, the said Reed, several
grievous wounds, and did then and there in and on
board the vessel aforesaid, upon the high seas, and
piratiout of the jurisdiction of any particular State
rally, &c. him, the said person commonly called
Reed, cast and threw from out of said vessel into
the sea, and plunge, sink, and drown him, in the sea
aforesaid, of which said grievous wounds, casting,
throwing, plunging, sinking, and drowning, the said
person commonly called Reed, upon the high seas
afor.esaid, out of the jurisdiction of any particular
State, then and there instantly died.
And so the jurors aforesaid, upon their oath afbresaid, do say, that the said William Holmes, &c. him,
the said person commonly called Reed, then and
there, upon the high seas as aforesaid, and out of the
jurisdiction of any particular State, piratically, &ce.
did kill and murder, against the peace and dignity of
the said United States, and against the form of the

CASkS IN THE SUPREME COURT
1820.

U. States

.

statute of the said United States, in such case made
and provided, &c. Upon which indictment the prisoners were found guilty of the offence charged
therein. And, thereupon, the counsel
for the prisoners moves the Court for a new trial for the misdirection of the Court upon the points of law which
had been raised at the trial. And upon arguing the
said motion for a new trial, the several questions occurred before the Circuit Court, which are stated in.
the opinion of this Court, upon which the opinions of
the judges of the Circuit Court were opposed.
From the evidence it appeared that a vessel, apparently Spanish, (whose national character, however, was not distinctly proved by any documentary
evidence, or by the testimony of any person conusant of its characiter,) was captured by two priva-.
teers from Buenos Ayres, a prize crew put on board,
and the prisoners were of that prize crew. One of
the prisoners was a citizen of the United States, and
the other prisoners were foreigners. The crime was
committed by the prisoners on the person whose
death was charged in the indictment, by drowning
him on the high seas, he being, at the time, a prize
master of the captured vessel, and thrown or driven
overboard by the prisoners. 'There was no proof
who were the owners of the privateers, nor where
they' resided, nor what were the ships' papers or
documents, nor where, nor at what time, they were
armed or equipped for war. The privateers had
been at Buenos Ayres, and openly kept a rendezvous
there, and shipped the crews there. The crews consisted chiefly of Englishmen, Frenchmen, aid Ame:,

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1820.
ricans. The commander of one of the privatees
was, by birth, a citizen of the United States, and U.States
V.
had a family domiciled at Baltimore. The cornHolmes.
Englishman,
an
birth
by
was
other
mander of the
but had long been domiciled at Baltimore. There
was no proof that either of them had ever lived at
Buenos Ayres, or been naturalized there. All the
witnesses agreed that-both the privateers were built
at Baltimore. They had been at Buenos Ayres, before their sailing on this cruise, but a short time, one
about six weeks, the other a few days only.
And the said Judges being so opposed in opinion
upon the questions aforesaid, the same were then
and there, at the request of the district attorney for
the United States, stated, under the direction of the
Judges, and ordered by the Court to be certified under the seal of the Court to thip Court, to be finally
decided.

This case was argued by the Attorney General Feb. 14tb.
for the United States, and by Mr. Webster for the
prisoners, upon the same grounds which are stated
in the argument of the preceding cases of the United States v. Klintock,a the United States v. Smith,b
and the United States v. Furlong et al.c
Mr. Justice WAS15INGTON delivered the opinion of March 1ish..
the Court. This case comes before the Court upon
a division of opinion of the Judges of the. Circuit
Court for the district of Massachusetts. The de-.
fendants are indicted for murder committed on the
a Aqnte, p, 144.

b .Ate, V. 153.

c A~nte, p. 184.

416

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

182o.

high seas; and the questions adjourned to this Cobrt

U.. States

are,
1. Whether the Circuit Court had jurisdiction of
the offence charged in the indictment,
unless the ves-

v.

sel on board of which the offence was committed,
was, at the time, owned by a citizen, or citizens of
the United States, and was lawfully sailing under its
flag.
2. Whether the Court had jurisdiction of the offence charged in the indictment, if the vessel on
board of which it was committed, at the time of the
commission thereof, had no real national character,
but was possessed and held by pirates, or by persons
not lawfully sailing under the flag, or entitled to the
protection of any government whatever.
3. Whether it made any difference as to the point
of jurisdiction, whether the prisoners, or any of them,
were citizens of the United States, or that the offence was consummated, not on board of any vessel,
but in the high seas.
4. Whether the burthen of proof of the national
character of the vessel on board of which the offence
was committed, was on the United States, or, under
the circumstances stated in the charge of the Court,
was on the prisoner.
The two first questions have been decided by this
Court at its present session. In Klintock's case,0 it
was laid down, that to exclude the jurisdiction, of
the Courts of the United States, in cases of murder.
or robbery committed on the high seas, the vessel in
which the offender is, or to which he belongs, must
a A,te, p. 144.

417

OF THE UNITED STATES.

be, at the time, in fact, as well as in right, the property of a subject of a foreign State, and in virtue
of such property, subject, at that time, to his conin a vessel,
trol. But if the offence be committed
not at the time belonging to subjects of a foreign
State, but in possession of persons acknowledging
obedience to no government or flag, and acting in
defiance of all law, it is embraced by the act of the
30th of April, 1790. It follows, therefore, that murder or robbery committed on the high seas, may be
an offence cognizable by the Courts of the United
States, although it was committed on board of a
vessel not belonging to citizens of the United States,
as if she had no national character, but was possessed
and held by pirates, or persons not lawfully sailing
under the flag of any foreign nation.
The third question contains two propositions,
1. As to the national character of the offender, and
of the person against whom it is committed ; and, 2.
As to the place where the offence is committed.
In respect to the first, the Court is of opinion,
and so it has been decided during the present term,
that it makes no difference whether the offender be
a citizen of the United States or not. If it be committed on board of a foreign vessel by a citizen of
the United States, or on board of a vessel of the
United States by a foreigner, the offender is to be
considered, pro hac vice, and in respect to this subject, as belonging to the nation under whose flag he
sails. If it be committed either by a citizen or a
foreigner, on board of a piratical vessel, the offence
is equally cognizable by the Courts of the United
Vo,.. V.

.53

1820.

"
o-

'

418

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1820.

Lyle

V.

Rodgers.

States, under the above mentioned law. 2. Upon
this point, the Court is of opinion, that it makes no
difference whether the offence was committed on
board of a vessel, or in the sea, as by throwing the
deceased overboard and drowning him, or by shooting him when in the sea, though he was not thrown
overboard. The words of the above act of Congress are general, and speak of certain offences committed upon the high seas, without reference to any
vessel whatsoever on which they should be committed ; and no reason is perceived why a more restricted meaning should be given to the expressions of the
law, than they literally import. In the case of Furlong, for the murder of Sunley, decided during the
present term of the Court, it was certified, that murder committed from on board an American vessel,
by a mariner sailing on board an American vessel,
by a foreigner on a foreigner, in a foreign vessel, is
within the act of the 30th of April, 1790.a It follows
from this, and the principles laid down in Klintock's
case, that the same offence committed by any person
from on board a vessel having no national character,
as by throwing a person overboard, and drowning
him, is within the same law.
It is stated, in the charge of the Court below,
that it did not appear by any legal proof, that the
privateers had commissions from Buenos Ayres, or
any ship's papers or documents from that government, or that they were ever recognized as ships of
that nation, or of its subjects; or who were the owners, where they resided, or when or where the privateers were armed or equipped. But it did appear
a Xnee, p. 184.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

419

in proof, that the captains and crew were chiefly
1820.
Engtisimen, Frenchmen, and American citizens;
V.
thar the captains were both domiciled at Baltimore, 1 Rodgers.
where the family of one of them resided, and that
he was by birth an American citizen. It was also
proved, that the privateers were Baltimore built.
Un: er these circumstances, the Court is of opinion, .hat the burthen of proof of the national chara.'ter of the vessel on board of which the offence
was committed, was on the prisoners.
CERTYFICATE.

This cause came on to be heard on

the transcript of the record of the Circuit Court of the
United States, for the district of Massachusetts, and
on the questions on which the Judges of that Court
were divided in opinion, and was argued by counsel.
On consideration whereof, this Court is of opinion:
1. That the said Circuit Court had jurisdiction of
the offence charged in the indictment*, although the
vessel on board of which the offence was committed
was not, at the time, owned by a citizen, or citizens
of the United States, and was not lawfully sailing
under its flag.
2. The said Circuit Court had jurisdiction of the
offence charged in the indictment, if the vessel, on
board of which it was committed,' had, at the time
of the commission thereof, no real national character
but was possessed and held by pirates, or by persons
not lawfully sailing under the flag, or entitled to the
protection of any government whatsoever.
3. That it made no difference, as to the point of
jurisdiction, whether the prisoners, or any of them,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

420

were citizens of the United States, or whether the
was a citizen of the United States, or that
the offence was committed not on board any vessel,
but on the high seas.
4. That the burthen of proof of the national character of the vessel, on board of which the offence
was committed, was, under the circumstances stated
in the charge of the Court, on the prisoners."

1620.
Owings

'deceased

"
Speed.

(CONSTITUTIONAL

LAW)

OWINGS V. SPEED

et al.

The present Constitution of the United States did not commence its
operatin until the first WVedncsday in March, 1789, and the piovi.ion in the Constitution, that " no Stqte shall make any law impairing the obligatien of contracts," does not extend to a State law
enacted before that day, and operating upon rights of property
veAted before that time.
The books of a corporation, established for public purposes, are evidence of its acts and proceedings.

arc,~ 13th.

cause was argued by Mr. B. Hardin, for
the defendants, no counsel appearing for the plaintiff.

,

Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered tlhe
opinion of the Court. This was an ejectment
brought by the plaintiff in the Circuit Court of
the United States, for the District of Kentucky,
to recover a lot of ground lying in Bardstown.

.J1arch1

THIS

a Fide APPENDIX, .,Vote IV.

