374
1820.
Handly's

Lessee

Anthony.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

This cause came on to be heard on
transcript of the record of the Circuit Court for
the district of West Tennessee, and was argued by
JUDGMENT.

Sthe

counsel.

On consideration whereof, this Court is of

opinion, that the Circuit Court for the district of
West Tennessee erred in instructing the jury, that
they might use the demarcation, in the bill of
exceptions and opinion of the Court mentioned, for
the purpose of ascertaining the land contained in
the grant under which the defendant claimed. It
is, therefore, ADJUDGED and ORDERED, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this case be, and
the same is, hereby reversed and annulled. It is
further ORDERED, that the said cause be remanded
to the said Circuit Court, with directions to issue a
venirefaciasde novo.

(LoCAL LAW.)

HANDLY'S

Lessee v.

ANTHONY

et al.

The boundary of the State of Kentucky extends only to low water
mark on the western or northwestern side of the river Ohio; and
does not include a peninsula, or island, on the western or northwestern bank, separated from the main land by a channel or bayou,
which is filled with water only when the river rises above its banks,
and is, at other times, dry.
When a.river is the boundary between two nations or states, if the
original property is in neither, and there be no convention respecting it, each holds to the middle of the stream. But when, as in this

37.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
tase. one State (Virginia) is the original proprietor, and grants the

1820.

territory on one side only, it retains the river within its own domain,
and the newly erected State extends to the river only, and the low
water mark is its boundary.

Handly's
Lessee
v.

Anthony.

THI s cause was argued by the Attorney- General
for the plaintiff, and by Mr. B. Hardin for the defendants in error.

March 4th

Mr. Chief Justice MAr.SHALL delivered the opinion
of the Court. This was an ejeetment brought in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Kentucky, to recover land which the plaintiff claims
under a grant from the State of Kentucky, and
which the defendants hold under a grant from the
United States, as being part of Indiana. The title
depends upon the question whether the lands lie in
the State of Kentucky, or in the State of Indiana.
At this place, as appears from the plat and surveyor's certificate, the Ohio turns its course, and
runs southward for a considerable distance, and then
takes a northern direction, until it approaches within less than thtee miles, as appears from the plat, of
the place where its southern course commences.
A small distance above the narrowest part of the
neck of land which is thus formed, a channel, or
what is commonly termed in that country a bayou,
makes out of the Ohio, and enters the same river a
small distance below the place where it resumes its
westward course. This channel, or bayou, is about
nine miles by its meanders, three miles and a half in
a straight line, and from four to five poles wide.
The circuit made by the river appears to be from

Jrark 14t,

676
1820.
'

Handly's

Lessee

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

fifteen to twenty miles.
'channel

About mid-way of the

two branches empty into it from the north-

west, between six and seven hundred yards from

Anthony. each other; the one of which runs along the chan-

nel at low water, eastward, and the ofher westward,
until they both enter the main river. Between them
is ground over which the waters of the Ohio do
not pass until the river has risen about ten feet above
its lowest state. It rises from forty to fifty feet, and
all the testimony proves that this channel is made
by the waters of the river, not of the creeks which
empty into it. The people who inhabit this peninsula, or island, have always paid taxes to Indiana,
voted in Indiana, and been considered as within its
jurisdiction, both while it was a Territory, and since

it has become a State. The jurisdiction of Kentucky has never been extended over them.
The question whether the lands in controversy
lie within the State of Kentucky or of Indiana, depends chiefly on the land law of Virginia, and on
the cession made by that State to the United States.
Both Kentucky and Indiana were supposed to be
comprehended within the charter of Virginia at the
commencement of the war of our revolution. At
an early period of that war, the question whether the
immense tracts of unsettled country which lay within the charters of particular States, ought to be considered as the property of those States, or as an acquisition made by the arms of all, for the benefit of
all, convulsed our confederacy, and threatened its
existence. it was probably with a view to this
question that Virginia, in 1779, when she opened her

OF THE UNITED STATES.

land office, prohibited the location or entry of any

isio.

H
land "on the northwest side of the river Ohio."
In September, 1780, Congress passed a resolution, Lessee
recommending "to the several States, having claims- 4thoq#.
to waste and unappropriated lands in the western
country, a liberal cession to the United States, of a
portion of their respective claims, for the common
benefit of the Union." And in January, 1781, the
Commonwealth of Virginia yielded to the United
States "all right, title, and claim, which the said
Commonwealth had to the territory northwest of the
river Ohio, subject -to the conditions annexed to the
said act of cession." One of these conditions is,
4' that the ceded territory shall be laid out and formed
into States." Congress accepted this cession, but
proposed some small variation in the conditions,
which was acceded to; and in 1783 Virginia
passed- her act of coinfirmation, giving authority to
her members in Congress to execute a deed of conveyance.
It was intended then by Virginia, when she made
this cession to the United States, and most probably
when she opencd her land office, that the great river
Ohio should constitute -a boundary between the
States which might be formed on its opposite banks.
This intention ought never to be disregarded in construing this cession.
At the trial, the counsel for the defendants moved
the Court to instruct the jury,
1. That the lessor of the plaintiff cannot recover,
the land in contest not being at any time subject to
'the laws of Kentucky, but to those of Indiana.
4R
VOL. V..

378

37ASE IN THE SUPr-EMIE CO tUItT

2. Because the evidence does not show that the
Handly's land is within the limits of the State of Kentucky.
The Court instructed the jury that, admitting that
Less"
V.
Amtbony. the western and northwestern boundary of Kentucky
included all the islands of the Ohio, and extended
to the western and northwestern bank of the Ohio,
yet no land could be called an island of that river,
unless it was surrounded by the waters of the Ohio
at low water mark; and to low water mark only,
on the western or northwestern side of the Ohio,
did the boundaries of the State of Kentucky extend.
The counsel for the plaintiff excepted to this opinion, and then moved the Court to instruct the jury,
that if they found the land in question was covered.
by the grant to the lessor of the plaintiff, and that it
was surrounded by a regular water channel of the
.Ohio on the northwestern side, and was, at the middile and usual state of the water in the Ohio, embraced and surrounded by the water of the Ohio, flowing in said channel, it was an island, and within the
State of Kentucky. But the Court refused to give
the instructions aforesaid, but instructed the jury,
that if the water did not run through said channel
at low water, but left part thereof dry, it was not an
island, nor within the State of Kentucky.
To this opinion, also, the counsel for the plaintiff
excepted. The jury found a verdict for the defendant.,bn which the Court rendered judgment; which
judgment is now before this Court on a writ of
error.
The two exceptions present substantially the same
eluesfions to the Court, and may therefore be con3820.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

379

isw.
sidered together. They are, whether land is pToperly denominated an island of the Ohio, unless it "IHtndly's
be surrounded with the water of the river, when Lessee
low? and whether Kentucky was bounded on the AntT ny.
west and northwest by the low water mark of the
river, or at its middle state? or, in other words,
whether the'State of Indiana extends to low water
mark, or stops at the line reached by the river when
at its medium height?
In pursuing this inquiry, we must recollect that
it is not the bank of the river, but the river itself, at
which the cession of Virginia commences. She
conveys to Congress all her right to the territory
d situate, lying, and being, to the northwest of the
river Ohio." And this territory, according to express
stipulation, is to be laid off into independent States.
These States, then, are to have the river itself,
wherever that may be, for their boundary. This is
a natural boundary, and in establishing it, Virginia
must have had in view the convenience of'the future
population of the country.
When a great river is the boundary between two
nations or states, if the originai prpperty is in neither,
and there be no convention respecting it, each holds
-to the middle of the stream. But when, as in this
ease, one State is the original proprietor, and grants
the territory on one side only, it retains the river
within its own domain, and the newly-created State
extends to the river only. The river, however, is
its boundary.
"In case of doubt," says Vattel, "every country
lying npon a river, is prespmed to have g other

380
1820.
H-Atdly's

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

limits bit the river itself; because nothing is more
than to take a river for a boundary, when a
.'natural

state is established on its. borders; and wherever
Antaony. there is a doubt,'that is always to be presumed which
is most natural and most probable."
'"If," says the same author, "the country whicb.
borders on a river, has no other limits than the river
itself, it is in the number of territories that have natural or indetermined limits, and it enjoys the right
Lesee

of aIuvion.

"a

Any gradual accretion of land, then, on the Indiana side of the Ohio, would belong to Indiana, and
it is not very easy to distinguish between land thus
formed, and land formed by the reeeding of the water.
If,. instead of an annual and' somewhat irregular
rising and falling of the river, it was, a daily and
almost regular ebbing and flowing of the tide, it
would -not-be doubted that a country bounded by the
river would extend to low water mark. This rule
has been established by the common consent of
mankind. It is founded on common convenience.
Even when a State retains its dominion over a river
which constitutes the boundary between itself and
another State, it would be extremely inconvenient
to extend its dominion over the land on the other
side, which was left bare by, the receding of the
water. "And this inconvenience is not less where
the rising and falling is annual, than where it is
diurnal., Wherever the river is a boundary between
States, it is the main, the permanent river, which
constitutes that boundary; and the mind will- find
a1.1.

e. 22. 6 268.

OF THE UNITED STATES%

itself embarrassed with insurmountable difficulty in
1829.
attempting to draw any other line than the low water Handly's
Lessee
mark.
V.
When the State of Virginia made the Ohio the Anthony.
boundary of States, she must have intended the
great river Ohio, not a narrow bayou into which its

waters occasionally run. All the.inconvenience which
would result from attaching a narrow strip of country lying on the northwest side of that noble river
to the States on its southeastern side, would result
from attaching to Kentucky, the State on. its southeastern border, a body of land lying northwest of
the real river, and divided from the main land only
by a narrow channel, through the whole of which
the waters of the river do not pass, until they rise
ten feet above the low water mark.
The opinions given by the Court must be considered in reference to the case in which they were.
given. The sole question in the cause .respected
the boundary of Kentucky and Indiana; and- the
title depended entirely upon that question. The
definition of an island which the Court was requested to give, was eiiher.an abstract proposition, which
it was uhnecessary to answer, or -one which was to
be answered according to its bearing on the facts in
the, cause. The definition of an island was only
material, so far as that definition might aid in fixing
the boundary of Kentucky. In the opinion given
by the Court on .the motion made by the counsel for
the-defendants, they say, that "no land.can be calle.d
an island" of the Ohio, unless it be surrounded by
the waters of that river at low water mark." We

582

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

are not satisfied that this definition is incorrect, as
Ilandly's respected the subject before the Court; but it is
rendered unimportant, by the subsequent member of
Lesses
A-thony. the sentence, in which they say, "1 that to low water
mark only, on the western and northwestern side of
the Ohio, does the State of Kentucky extend."
So, in the motion made by the counsel for the
plaintiff, the Court was requested to say, that if the
waters of the Ohio flowed in the channel, in its
middle and usual state, it was not only an island, but
"within the State of Kentucky."
If the land was not within the State of Kentucky,
the Court could not give the direction which was
requested. The Court gave an instruction substantially the same with that which had been given on
the motion of the defendant's counsel.
If it be true, that the river Ohio, not its ordinary
bank, is the boundary of Indiana, the limits of that
State can be determined only by the river itself.
The same tract of land cannot be sometimes in
Kentucky, and sometimes in Indiana, according to
the rise and fall of the river. It must be always
in the one $tate, or the other.
There would be little difficulty in deciding, that
in any case other than land which was sometimes
an island, the State of Indiana would extend to low
water mark. Is there any safe and secure principle, on which we can apply a different rule to land
which is sometimes, though not always, surrounded
by water?
So far as respects the great purposes f6r which
the river was taken as the boundary, the two case%
1a2o.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1820.
-seem to be within the same reason, and to require
I
the same rule. It would be as inconvenient to the Handly's
from
Lesee
land,
separated
neck
of
people- inhabiting this
Indiana only by a bayou or ravine, sometimes dry for Anthony.
six or seven hundred yards of its extent, but separated from Kentucky by the great river Ohio, to form
a part of the last mentioned State, as it would for
the inhabitants of a strip of land along the whole
extent of the Ohio, to form a part of the State on
the opposite shore. Neither the one nor the other
can be considered as intended by the deed of cession.
If a river, subject to tides, constituted the boundary of a State, and at flood the waters of the river
flowed through a narrow channel, round an extensive body of land, but receded from that channel at
ebb, .so as to leave the land it surrounded at high
water, connected with the main body of the country-; this portion of territory would scarcely be considered as belonging to the State on the opposite side
of the river, although that State should have the
property of the river. The principle that a country
bounded by a river extends to low water mark, a

principle so natural, and of such obvious convenience as to have been generally adopted, would,
we think, apply to that case. We perceive no sufficient reason why it should not apply to this.
The case is certainly not without its difficulties;
but in great questions which concern the boundaries
of States, where great natural boundaries are established in general terms, with a view to public convenisnce, and the avoidance of controversy, we think
the great object, where it can be distinctly perceived,

384

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1820.

Handly's
Lessee

V.

Anthony.

ought not to be defeated by those technical perplexities which may sometimes influence contracts between individuals, The State of Virginia intended
to make the great river Ohio, throughout its extent,
the boundary between the territory ceded to the
United States and herself. When that part of Virginia, which is now Kentucky, became a separate
State, the river was the boundary between the new
States erected by Congress in the ceded territory,
and Kentucky. Those principles and considerations
which produced the boundary, ought to preserve it.
They seem to us to require, that Kentucky should
not pass the main river, and possess herself of lands
lying on the opposite side, although they should, for
a considerable portion of the year, be surrounded by
the waters of the river-flowing into a narrow channel.
It is a fact of no inconsiderable importance- in tbi
case, that the inhabitants of this land have uniformly
considered themselves, and have been uniformly considered, both by Kentucky and Indiana, as belonging
to the last mentioned State. No diversity of opinion
appears to have existed on this point. The water on
the north western side of the land in :'6oitroversy,
seems not to have been spoken of as a part of the
river, but as a bayou. The people of the vidinage,
who'viewed, the river in:all its changes, seem not to
have-considered this land as being an island of thd
Ohio, and as a part of Kentucky, but as lying on thd
north western side of the Ohio, and being a part of
Indiana.

t)

THE UNITED STATES.

885

i8-2o.
The compact with Virginia, under which Kentucky became a State, stipulates, that the navigation "'
La Amistad
of, and jurisdiction over, the river, shall be concurrent ae rues.
between the new States, and the States which may
possess the opposite shores of the said river. This
term seems to be a repetition of the idea under which
the cession was made. The shores of a river border on the water's edge.
Judgment affirmed, with costs.

(enIzE.)

LA AmiSTAD DE

Ru s.-Almiral, Libellant.

Qucere, Whether, where a prize has been taken by a privateer fitted
out in violation of our neutrality, the vessels of the United States
have a right to recapture the prize and bring it into our ports for
adjudication?
in cases of marine torts, the probable profits of a voyage are not a fit
rule for the ascertainment of damages.
In cases of violation of our neutrality by any of the belligerents, if the
prize comes voluntarily within our territory, it is restored to the
original owners by our Courts. But their jurisdiction for this purpose, under the law of nations, extends only to restitution of the
specific property, with costs and expenses, during the pcndency of
the suit, and does not extend to the infliction of vindictive damages
as in ordinary cases of marine torts.
Where the original owner seeks for restitution in our Courts upon the
ground of a violation of our neutrality by the captors, the onus pro.
bandi rests upon him, and if there be reasonable doubt respecting
the facts, the Court will decline to exercise its jurisdiction,]

APPEAL
VOL. V.

from the District Court of Louisiana.
49

