OF THE UNITED STATES.

.69

1820.
not encroach upon the rights of third parties. (Erskine's Inst.
B. 3. tit. 10. s. S.) A bastard is not only excluded, I. From %..,v .'
Perkins
V.
his father's succession, because the law knows no father who is
llamsey.
all
heritable
From
2.
;
and,
marriqg
by
lawful
but
-marked
not
succession, whether by the father -or mother ; because he cannot be pronounc'ed lawful heir by the inquest, in terms of the
Brie; but, also, 3. From the ndveable succession of his mother ; for, though the mother be known, the bastard is not her
lawful child, and legitimacy is implied in all succession deferred
by law. But though he cannot succeed jure sanguinis, he may
succeed by destinatlion,where he is specially called to the snc,
cession -by an entail or testament. (lb. s. 4.)
The laws of England respecting illegitimate children, are too
well known to render any particular account of Them necessary
in this place. Vide 1 Bl. Comm. 454. et seq. Co. Litt. by
HIargr. 8y Butler, 3 6. note 1. Id. 123. a. note 8. Id. 123. b.
1d.J243. b. note '. Id. 244. a. note 1, 2. 79. 244note 1,'!.
-b. note 1.

(LocAL LAw.)

13EluXNs

et -at. v.

RAM 5E-Y Ctal

The-following -enryis invalia for want of t0t -certainty and precision
required by law: " William Perkins and William Hoy, enter 6,714
acres of land on a treasury warrant, No. -10,692, to join Lawrence
Thompson and Jlames NI'Millan's entry of 1,000 acres that is laid on
the adjoining-idge between Spencer's-creek and lingston's fork of
'Licking on the east, and to ran east and south for quantity." The
entry referred to in the foregoing was as follows: "9th of December,
1782, Lawrence Thompson and James 'IMillan, assignee of Samuel
Vaker, eiter 1,000 acres on alreasury warrant, No. 4,222, on the dividing ridge between Kingston's fork of Licking andSpencer's creek,
-awest branch ofs aidfork, to includealarge pond .in the centre of a
square, and a white oak tree'marked X, also an elm tree marked
"VS,near the side ofthe pond."

Tais cause was argued by Mr. B. Hardin,for the F
appellants, and by Mr. Trimble, for the respondents.

171t.

CASES IN THE SUPREME
1820.

COUIV

Mr. Justice TODD delivered the opinion of the

Court. This is an appeal from the decree of the
seventh
Circuit Court in the district of Kentucky,
Rlamsey.
.March 61h. and is a controversy between conflicting claims to
land originating under the land law of Virginia.
The respondents relying on their elder legal titles,
and denying the validity of the entries, under which
the appellants derive their titles, it is necessary to
examine those entries only.
The entry under which the appellants derive title
is in the following words, as it stands amended, viz.
" William Perkins and William Hoy enter 6,714
acres of land on treasury warrant No. -10,692, to
.join Lawrence Thompson and James M'Millan's eniry of 1,000 acres that is laid on the dividing ridge,
between Spencer's creek and Hingston's fork of
Licking, on the east, and to run east and south, for
quantity."
Perkins
at

The entry referred to in the foregoing one, is in
the following words, viz : " 9th of December, 1782,
Lawrence Thompson and James M'Millan, assignee
of Samuel Baker, enter 1,000 acres on a treasury
warrant, No. 4,222, on the dividing ridge between
1-ingston's fork of Licking and Spencer's creek,
a west branch of saidfork, to include a large pond
in the centre of a square, and a white oak tree marked X, also, an elm tree marked V S, near the side
of the pond."
On reading this last entry, the impression would
be strong, that the dividing ridge, Spencer's creek,
and the large pond, were all to be found on the west
side of Hingston's fork of Licking : a subsequent

OF THE UNITED STATES.

locator, or those desirous of ascertaining the land
embraced by this entry, on making inquiry for the
objects called for, would be informed that Spencer's
creek is not a water of Hingston's fork; but is a
water of Slate creek, and lies on the east, and not
on the west side of Hingston. Each of those creeks
was, at the date of this entry, generally known by
their respective names. There is, then, in this entry
a mistake in describing Spencer's creek as a west
branch of Hingston's. fork. If this mistake can be
corrected according to legal principles, and well settled rules of construing entries, it should be done, if
by the correction the entry can be sustained. It is
stated to be a rule of construction adopted in the
Courts of Kentucky, that where there are repugnant,
false or mistaken calls in an entry, they may be rejected. Admitting the correctness of this rule, the
call for Spencer's creek as being a west branch of
Hingston's fork, is not a repugnant, but is a mistaken
one. This mistake being corrected, the entry would
then read, "Lawrence Thompson and James M'Mil]an, assignee of Samuel Baker, enter 1,000 acres
on a treasury warrant, on the dividing ridge between
Hingston's fork of Licking, and Spencer's creek, to
include a large pond in the centre of a square, and a
white oak tree marked X, also, an elm tree marked
VS, near the side of the pond." Those who were
acquainted with Hingston's fork, and -Spencer's
creek, would know, and the connected platt before
-the Court shows, that there is a dividing ridge extending in a northern and southern direction, between
those water courses. A subsequent locator might

s!o:
Perkiua

V.
Ramsey.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

thus have ascertained three of the objects called for
' Perkins in this entry, viz. the dividing ridge, Hingston's fork,
and Spencer's creek; but the large pond and markv.
Ramsey. ed trees are still wanting to ascertain the specialty
1820.

and precision of this entry. The most diligent inquiry and laborious research would not enable him
to find them, on, or near this dividing ridge. Here
another false call or description is discovered. How
is this to be corrected? It is contended, that Slate
creek must be substituted for Hingston's fork, by
doing which, all mistakes will he corrected, and
every object called for in the entry may be easily
found, land correctly ascertained. Waiving for the
present all objection to this substitution, let it be
examined how the entry would then stand. The
description would then be " on the dividing ridge
between Slate creek and Spencer's creek, a west
branch thereof, to include a large pond in the centre
of a square, and a white oak tree marked X; also, an
elm tree marked V S, near the side of the pond."
With'this correction, a subsequent locator being
placed at the mouth of Spencer's creek, would
naturally look for the dividing ridge to conduct him
-to the pond, and marked trees. The connected platt
exhibits three ridges, one extending in a northern
-direction, between Slate, and a branch of Spencer's
creek; a second, extending westwardly up Spencer's
creek, on the south side thereof, which is a dividing
ridge between Spencer's creek and Greenbrier creek,
also a water of Slate; and a third, extending westwardly up Greenbrier on the south side thereof, which
is a dividing ridge between Greenbrier and Brash

OF THE UNITED STATES.

creek, also a witer of Slate. Which of these would
lie decide to be the dividing ridge between Spencer's
creek, and Slate ; or can either of them be properly
so called? It is contended on the part of the appellants, that the ridge on the upper, or soufh side of
Spencer's creek would, in the general, and common
acceptation of men, be considered as the proper one.
It may be admitted, that in many, perhaps in most
cases, a call for the dividing ridge between two
streams would generally be considered as designa.tirng that point above the one, and adjoining the

other; but it must also be admitted, that in some
cases it would not be so considered ; it would depend on the direction -or course of the streams,
.and the manner in which they are united with
each other. If the general course of the one was
south, and the other north, and the other running
south, should turn east to form the junction, and
-the one running north should continue its course,
then the land below the junction, would by every
.person be considered as dividing the one stream from
the other. Take as an example that branch of Spen.cer's Creek, called Harper's Fork; suppose it the
main stream, and that it formed a junction with Slate
Creek instead of Spencer's Creek, could a doubt
- exist that the land on the lower side was the dividing ridge between that stream and Slate Creek ? The
dividing ridge -on the south side of Spencer's Creek,
-is, in truth and in fact, a dividing ridge between that
.creek and Green-brier, another water of Slate, running nearly parallel with Spencers's Creek, and
.forming ajunction with Slate above.it. The same
Vor. V,

5

273
182o0.
Perkins

V.
R~amsey.

274

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

fact exists as to the dividing ridge between Green~ brier and Brush Creek. Tie ridge, then, extending
Perkins
V.
northwardly from the mouth of Spencer's Creek
might, with equal probability, be pursued aseitherof
amso,-.
1820.

the others; it would lead to a pond, as designated
on the connected platt B2. It is true, this pond is
not proved to be a large one, and a subsequent locator on a view of it might conclude it did not answer
the description of that called for in the entry. If
he returned and pursued the ridge between Greenbrier and Brush Creek, he would be conducted to a.
pond, designated on the connected platt 38. This
also is not a large pond, and may be considered as
not answering the description. But supposing he
should pursue the ridge on the south side of -Spencer's Creek, would it conduct him certainly to the
pond No. 1., as designated on the connected platt ?
We think it very doubtful, from the proofs in the
cause. It is not situate on the dividing ridge, but is
nearly surrounded by the drains and branches of
Green-brier, is from 50 to 80 poles distant from the
ridge, was nearly surrounded by high, strong, and
thick canes ; and, although from the testimony, there
appears to have been a good deal of conversation
among the reiidents at Boonesborough respecting a
large pond in this section of country, yet its precise
situation was known only to a few, among some of
whom existed an agreement to conceal their knowledge of it, and many of the residents at that place
and its vicinity knew not, nor had heard any thing
respecting it: to which may be added, that the pond
designated on the connected platt 37., is a large

OF THE UNITED STATES.

pond, was also known to many, and possibly may
have been the one spoken of in some of the general
and loose conversations at Boonesborough; and it
may be further observed, that the residents at
Strode's and M'Gee's stations, (which were the nearest ones,) as well as many others, who were conversant in that section of country, had never seen,
and did not know of, the pond No. 1. until a consi-derable time after the date of the entry. The Court
is, therefore, of opinion, that this pond was not so
.generally known, or could be so readily found, as to
support and uphold this entry ; and that it would be
requiring more than ordinary and reasonable diligence to traverse and search all the dividing ridges
represented on the connected platt.
But weare not satisfied that, according to the legal
principles or well settled rules for construing entries,
Slate creek, can be substituted for Ilingston's fork :
on the contrary, we believe it would be making, rather than construing an entry. No case has been
produced, where this has been permitted, and it is believed none such exists. The counsel for the appellants contends, that as from the proofs in the cause,
it appears that Slate creek was by many supposed to
be Hingston, this circumstance would authorize such
substitution; to this it may be answered, that this
mistake existed among the hunters and locators at
Boonesborough only, and that among them, there
were several'who knew Slate creek by its appropriate
name; to which it may be added, that all the hunters
and locators at Strode's and M'Gee's stations, as well as
rmany others, also knew Slate creek, and that it was

27h
1820.
Perkins

V.

Ramsey

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

76

1820.
Perkins
V.

not a water of Hingston's fork ; so that a majority
of those conversant in that section of country did
not labour under the mistake.

We are therefore of

opinion, that it would be extending the rules
of construction too far to make this substitution, in support
of the mistake. of the few, against the knowledge
of the majority ; if a substitution could be permitted
in any case. We are farther of opinion, that - ingston's fork, was of more general notoriety than any
of those streams, and ouight not to be disregarded in
construing this entry ; that it is one of the prominent calls to ascertain its situation ; and that a subsequent locator having arrived at Hingston's fork,
and finding the pond designated on the platt 37,
which is proved to have been known to many, and
isliitle inferior in size to the-pond 1, mightrationally
conclude, that the locator of the entry under consi..
deration, had mistaken some western branch of
flingstoni for Spencer's creek; thus situated, he
would conjecture, that an entry containing such incorrect, mistaken, or false calls, and requiring so
much diligence and labour, was so doubtful and Uncertahi, as to induce him to abandon further research.
This entry, therefore, from a full view of all the
proofs and circumstances, is deemed invalid, for want
of that certainty and precision required by law.
In accordance with this opinion, is the decision of
*the Court of Appeals of the State of Kentucky, in
the suit of Dunleary against Reed and others, wherein the same entry was examined upon substantially
fhe same evidence.
Decree affirmed with costs.

