OF THE UNITED STATES.

rendered in the said Circuit Court, was vested in
David Ross, whereas the said Court ought to have
said
instructed the jury that only a moiety of the
land was vested in him. It is, therefore, ADJUDGED
and ORDERED, that the judgment of the said Circuit
Courtin this case be, and the same is, hereby reversed
and annulled. And it is further ordered, that the
said cause be remanded to the said Circuit Court
with directions to issue a venirefacias de novo.

(PRIZE.)

The

VEN*S, JADEMEROWSKY,

Claimant.

A question of proprietary interest, on farther proof.

Restitution de-

creed.
Captors' costs and expenses ordered to be paid by the claimant, it
being his fault that defective documents were put on board.
On fartherproof, the affidavit of the claimant is indispensably necessary.

APPEAL

from the Circuit Court of Georgia.

This cause was continued for farther proof at February term, 1816. (Vide ante, vol. I. p. 112.) Owing to various accidents, the farther proof was not
received until the last term, and the cause was now
argued upon the farther proof then produced and
filed. It consisted of invoices of the cargo ; bills of
lading; accounts of sale ; accounts of disbursements the original correspondence between the

1820.

The Venus.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1820.

"The

Venus.

Feb. IIth.

claimant and Mr. Jones, his agent in London ; and
procuration from the claimant to Mr.
the original
o
Jones, recited in the power given from the latter to
Diamond, the supercargo, one of the original papers
found on board ; to which was added, the affidavit of
Mr. Jademerowsky, the claimant, verifying the correspondence, and explainitg the circumstances of
doubt and suspicion which appeared upon the original evidence.

Mr. Harper, for the claimant, recapitulated the
facts of the original case, stating that this ship sailed
from London under Russian colours in April, 1814;
joined a British convoy at Portsmouth, and sailed for
Barbadoes, where she arrived, and having again sailed bound to the Havanna, was captured on the latter
-voyage by aBritish cruizer, &arried in foradjudication,
and acquitted. She changed her destination for Amelia island, and was captured by an American cruizer.
At the hearing in the District Court, the ship was restored by consent, and the cargo acquitted ; but the
latter was condemned on appeal to the Circuit Court,
the origin of the adventure not being traced farther
than London, and it being supposed to .be enemy's
property concealed under a Russian garb. He ar.
gued from the farther proof, that all the circumstances of suspicion arising from the original evidence were now satisfactorily explained, and tha
consequently the claimant was entitled to restitutionThe Attorney General, contra, insisted, that tle
farther proof now produced was insufficient to satisfy

OF THE UNITED STATES.

the doubts originally existing in the cause. The
ship was captured in the same year with the St.
under circumNicholasa and the Fortuna,b and
stances strikingly similar. They were all sailing
under Russian colours, and documented as Russian
vessels; but exclusively directed by British merchants,
professing to be the mere agents of the neutral claimants. Even some of the same parties also appear in
this case; and the captors have a right to look into
these other cases in order to bring this circumstance
to the notice of the Court., The documents now
produced are not such, nor verified in such a manner,
as the Court had a right to expect. It is not difficult
to conceive what fate such documents would have
experienced had they been offered in a similar case
to Sir W. Scott, after the eloquent description he has
given, in the case last cited," of the inexhaustible ingenuity with which new arts are invented to cover
enemys' property under a neutral garb; and the jealous rigour with which, in very suspicious cases, he
examines the documents offered to his inspection.
In another case, he says, "goods shipped in the
enemy's country are to be considered primafacie as
the property of the enemy, and can only be taken
out of that piesumption by fair and unbiassed evidence, and not from evidence supplied only from the
enemy. "le But the greater part of the evidence in the
a I Wheat. 417. b 2 Wheat. 161.
c The Rosalie and Betsy, 2 Rob 281.
d lb.
e The Juno, 1 Rob. 100.
37
VdL. V.

1820.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COUkT
1s0.

Trhe Venus.

present case comes from that source, and is liable to
objection.

Sthat

Mr. D. B. Ogden, for the claimant, in reply, argued, that as this Court, in granting the order for fartier proof, had not stated what were the doubts to be
explained by the claimant, it was sufficient if he had
satisfactorily answered those suggested in the opinion of the Circuit Court. The claimant has given
such an answer to those doubts, both by the production of documentary evidence, and by his own affidavit, which it is admitted, is indispensably necessary
in order to guard against the inferences that might
otherwise fairly be drawn from his silence. The
documents are duly verified; and that not merely
by his agents in the enemy's country, but by his own
oath, and by other testimony.
1'cb. 21st.

Anfioy betweenthis case

and
thest.
cholas
and Nithe

Forte.

Mr. Justice JOHNSO N delivered the opinion of the
Court. When this case was first brought to the view
of this Court, it was accompanied by some others, in
which Russian claimants presented themselves under
circumstances which satisfied this Court, that their
claims were false and fraudulent. On comparing
those cases with this, there was such a striking similitude in their machinery, that it was impossible not
to suspect that they were all fashioned upon the same
model, and adapted to the same end. With the St.
Nicholasa and the Fortuna,' full in view, this Court
could not adjudge the case of this vessel to be a case

of restitution.

Still, however, there was a possibi-

lity that those may have been the forged copies, and
a I Wheat. 417.

b 2 Wheat. 167.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

this the genuine prototype. This Court, therefore,
trusting that a Russian character of high standing
could not have pledged himself for the fairness of the
transaction, but without better evidence than was
then presented to our view, gave the most liberal indulgence for procuring evidence to support the claim.
We now express our satisfaction in having done so;
inasmuch as it has enabled an honest man both to
save his property, and vindicate his reputation. And
we cannot omit this opportunity to remark, how
much it becomes the interest, as'well as principles of
the fair neutral, to discountenance the conduct of him
who indulges himself in fraudulent practices. The
claimant in this case had nearly fallen a sacrifice to
the bad faith of some of his countrymen; a great
loss from it he must unavoidably incur:

The Ven,,s,

For, this captors co:(,

is one of those cases in which, by the course of the
and
admiralty, we shall be obliged to throw the costs
expenses upon the claimant, although we decree restitution. It is altogether upon the evidence of
Jones, and the test-affidavit of the claimant, intrioducing and verifying their original correspondence,
that restitution is now decreed. Unsupported, and
unexplained by the evidence introduced as further
proof, the condemnation was unavoidable. It is,
therefore, the claimant's misfortune, not that of the
captors, that the agent Jones had furnished the vessel with the defective documents which accompanied
her.
Decree reversed.
DFCRE.

1820.

This cause came on to be heard on the

transcript of the record of the Circuit Court for the

to be paid by
he claimant.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1sn.
The London

racket.

district of Georgia, and on the farther proof exhibited
in this cause, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is DECREED and ORDERED, that
the decree of the Circuit Court for the district of
Georgia in this case, condemning the cargo of the
ship Venus, be, and the same is, hereby reversed and
annulled. And this Court, proceeding to pass such
decree as the said Circuit Court should have passed,
it is further DECREED and ORDERED, that the said cargo
of the ship Venus be restored to the claimant; and it
is further decreed, that the said claimant pay to the
libellants the costs and expenses incurred in the prsecution of this suit.

(PRIZE.)

The LONDON PACKE.-Merino, Claimant.
A question of proprietary interest on farther proof. Restitution decreed, with costs and expenses to be paid by the claimant.
In general, the circumstance ofgoods being found on board an enemy's
ship raises a legal presumption that they are enemy's property.

THis was the claim of a Spanish subject, to a
parcel of hides laden on board of the London Packet,
a British ship, at the port of Buenos Ayres, in South
America, in the month of June, 1813. The London Packet, on her voyage to London, was captured
by the private armed brig the Argus, and carried

