394

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1820.
(CosxnoN LAw.)

Lyle

Rodgers.

LYLE

et (ti. V. RODGERS.

Where claims against a party, both in his own right, and in a representative character, are submitted to the award of arbitrators, it is
a valid objection to the award, that it does not precisely distinguish
between moneys which are to be paid by him in his representative
character, and those for which he is personally bound.
An award may be void in part, and good for the residue. But if the
part which is void be so connected with the rest as to affect the justice of the case between the parties, the whole is void.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the district of Columbia.
This was an action of debt against the defendant, on a bond given by Jerusha Dennison, and the
defendant, to the plaintiffs, with a condition to perform the award 6f certain persons chosen to arbitrate
all differences, &c. between the plaintiffs and Jerusha Dennison, either as administratrix of Gideon
Dennison, deceased, or in any other capacity. The
condition of the obligation is in these Words: "1Whereas the said Jerusha Dennison, and the said James
Lyle and Joshua B. Bond, have agreed to refer all
matters in dispute between them, to the award and
arbitrament of David Winchester and Thomas Tenant, of the city of Baltimore; and in case they differ
in opinion, then to them and such third person as
the said David Winchester and Thomas Tenant
shall choose and appoint. Now, the condition
of the obligation is such, that if the above bound
Jerusha Dennison, her heirs, executors and administrators, do, and shall well and truly stand to, abide
by, and keep the award and arbitrament of the said

OF THE UNITED STATES.

David Winchester and Thomas Tenant, arbiters,
indifferently named and appointed by them to arbitrate, award, and adjudge of, and concerning all actions and causes of actions, debts, dues, controversies, claims or demands whatsoever, both at law and
in equity, which the said James Lyle and Joshua .
Bond have, or either of them hath, against her the
said Jerusha Dennison, as administratrix of Gideon
Dennison, or in any other capacity. Or in case the
said arbitrators shall differ in opinion, if then the said
Jerusha Dennison, her heirs, executors and administrators, and every of them, do, and shall stand to,
abide by, perform and keep the award and arbitrament of them the said David Winchester- and Thomas Tenant, or either of them, and of such discreet
and indifferent person as they shall elect and appoint
as a third person as aforesaid; then this obligation
to be void, and of none effect, otherwise to be and
remain in full force and virtue."
Upon this submission, the following award was
made: C,Whereas certain differences have arisen between Joshua B. Bond and James Lyle, of the city
of Philadelphia, in the State of Pennsylvania, of
the one part, and Jerusha Dennison, of Harford county, in the State of Maryland, of the other part; and
whereas, for the purpose of putting an end to the
said differences, the said parties, by their several
bonds, bearing date the fifteenth day of November
last past, have reciprocally become bound, each to
the other, in the penal sum of 12,000 dollars, current money of the United States, to stand to, abide
by, perform, and keep the award of David Winches-

395
1820.

Ljle

V.

Rlodgers.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

396
i820.
Lyve

v.

Rodgers.

Tenant, arbiters indifferently
named and appointed to arbitrate, adjudge, and award
of, and concerning all actions, or causes of actions,
debts, dues or demands, whatsoever, both of law and

ter

and Thomas

in equity, which the said Joshua B. Bond, and James
Lyle, or either of them, have against the said Jerusha
Dennison, as administratrix of Gideon Dennison;,or
in any other capacity:
"Whereupon, we, the above named arbitrators, after
having heard the allegations of the parties, proceeded to an examination of the accounts, documents
and proofs, by them respectively produced, and having maturely considered the same, do adjudge and
award in manner and form following:
' First. We do adjudge and award, that there is
due from Jerusha Dennison to Joshua B. Bond
and James Lyle, the sum of 8,726 dollars and
4i cents, wiih interest from this date, until paid;
upon the payment whereof, all suits at law and in
equity, between them, shall cease and determine.
And,
"Second. We doadjudge and award, that upon the
payment by the said Jerusha Dennison, of the sum
above awarded, with interest, as aforesaid, the said
Joshua B. Bond and James Lyle shall execute to the
said Jerusha Dennison, a good and sufficient release
of all claims against her, both in her private capacity,
and as administratrix of the late Gideon Dennison;
and, also, that they shall re-convey, or release, as
the case may require, all lands heretofore conveyed
or pledged to them hy the late Gideon Dennison, as a
collateral security; and further, that they shall deli-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

ver to the said Jerusha Dennison, or account for on
oath, all bonds, notes, bills, or other securities heretofore given to them by the late Gideon Dennison, as
collateral security:-And,
Lastly. We do adjudge and award, that this
award shall be conclusive between the parties."
The sum awarded by the arbitrators not having
been paid, this suit was instituted. The defendant,
after praying oyer of the bond, and of the condition,
pleaded no award. The plaintiffs, in their replication, set forth the award, and assigned as a breach of
it, the non-payment of the sum of 8,726 dollars and
46 cents, with interest, awarded to be due to them
from the said Jerusha Dennison. The defendant rejoined, that among the matters in dispute between
the parties, was a dispute relating to certain lands
conveyed in fee simple by Gideon Dennison, the intestate of the said Jerusha Dennison, to the plaintiffs,
in his lifetime, without any condition or defeazance
expressed therein, but with an understanding and
agreement between them, that the same should be
held by the plaintiffs is a collateral security for the
payment of whatever debt was due from the said
Gideon Dennison to the plaintiffs. And, also, as to
certain other lands and land titles, pledged in like
manner as a collateral security for the said debt.
But because the said matters in dispute are left unsettled by the said award, and for other causes appearing on the face of the said submission and award,
the arbitrators made thereon no award, &C.
To this rejoinder the plaintiffs demurred, and the
defendants joined in demurrer. It was, however.

397
1820.
Lyle

V.

Rodgef.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

i82o.
Lyle

v.

Rodgers.

afterwards agreed between the parties, that instead of
arguing the demurrer, the matter contained in the
t

foregoing pleadings, and the law arising thereon,
should be subject to the opinion of the Court, on a
statement of facts made by the parties, and the questions stated as arising thereon.
This statement admits the submission, the appearance of the parties before the arbitrators, the award,
due notice thereof, a demand of the sum awarded
to be due, and a refusal to pay the same. The statement also contains certain letters which passed between the plaintiffs and Jerusha Dennison, and Samuel Hughes, acting for and in behalf of the said
Jerusha, dated in 1799 and 1800; and, also, a letter
from the plaintiffs, dated in 1800, addressed to Mr.
Hollingsworth, a lawyer of Baltimore, containing a

copy of the correspondence above mentioned, and
transmitting him a note for 5,568 dollars, drawn by
Gideon Dennison in his lifetime, of which the plaintiffs were holders, and which had been regularly protested. On this note, Mr. Hollingsworth was requested to take the proper means to obtain payment.
The correspondence admitted, that " grants of lands
in North Carolina and Tennessee had been given
as security, without any acknowledgment or receipt
for the same;" but contained no information whatever, ascertaining what grants were so given, although full information on that subject had been requested on the part of Jerusha Dennison.
.

111.

1IMr. Jones, for the plaintiftf, stated, 1. That the first
objection made to the award by the defendant was,

OF THE UNITEDSTATES,

that the arbitrators had not determined all the matters in controversy between the parties. But the
only evidence to support this allegation is inadmissithe arbible and insufficient for that purpose; and
trators have done enough if they decide all that the
parties submit to them. 2. It is also objected, that the
administratrix could not submit differences relative
to her intestate's estate to arbitration. But the right
of executors and administrators to submit to arbitration is well established by authorities, and the submission is an admission of assets to the extent which
may be awarded ; or, rather, it is a personal engagement to pay whatever the arbitrators may direct.
without regard to the question of assets.a S. But it
is again objected, that the award is void for uncertainty. To which it is answered, that the universality of the award is advantageous to the defendant,
and that a general release, such as the award contemplates, is the best release for him. In the old
cases, the judges employed all their astuteness to defeatawards; but in the progress of society, they have
been justly viewed with more favour, and many
things are now deemed certain which were formerly
considered incurably bad. It is not necessary that
every thing should be stated with positive certainty
in the award itself. It may be rendered certain by
reference aliunde. The question is, whether the
party has a certain and definite remedy. Here the
defendant may show that certain deeds have been exOcuted, and are not released. It is sufficiently certain
a Barry v. Rush. I T. R. 691.
T.R. o.

Pearson Y. Pearson. 5

182o.

rLrl e
V.
Rodger-

.100

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

what bonds, &c. may be delivered up. It is within
knowledge of the parties. If the plaintiffs should
Sthe
Lyle
v.
attempt to sue upon other securities, the award might
Rodgers. be pleaded in bar, with an averment that they were
1820.

meant to be included.a As to the alternative part of
the award, to deliver up the papers, or account for them
on oath; an alternative award is good, if certain.'
This is sufficiently certain. They shall deliver them
up, or disclose where they are. Why might not the
arbitrators direct the bonds, &c. to be accounted for
on oath, instead of being actually delivered up ?
Mr. Pinkney and Mr. Key, contra, contended, I.
That the award was of a controversy about lands,
which the administratrix, in her representative character, was not competent to submit to arbitration.
That this was the nature of the controversy appears
from the letters offered in evidence, which are competent evidence of what was in dispute. It appears
.also from the award itself. But this award is no
proof of assets. rhat question was referred to the

arbitrators. If they say the money shall be paid, it
finds assets; otherwise, if they only decide that so
much is due. But they have not decided either, as
to J. Dennison in her representative character. 2.
The award finds a sum due from J. Dennison, but

does not say that she shall pay it. Now, the arbitrators may have intended merely to liquidate the claim,
leaving it to her to pay it or not, as she might, or might
a Kyd on Awards, 205, and the cases there cited.
b Id. 203.

401

OF THE UNITED STATES.

not be satisfied with the restoration by the plaintiffs
of the property pledged. The Court will not intend '
that it was meant that she should pay, whether they

1820.

Lyle

even if -odgq
offered to restore the pledges or not. And
this were doubtful, it adds another objection upon
the ground of uncertainty. 3. There are several
other uncertainties. It is uncertain what "lands ?'
are meant: and they are to be reconveyed or released "as the case may require." Who is to judge
what the case may require ? If the arbitrators had said
who should judge, it would even then be void; for it
is a judicial act which they could not delegate to
any one.a The lands are to be "released." But to
:whom.? The award does not state. They are to de-liver "all bonds," &c. heretofore given to them by
the late G. Dennison as collateral 'security." But
they are not specified, and this is a fatal defect,"
Again; They are required. to deliver them, or account for them "on oath." Here it is left uncertain
how they are to account for them on oath. It is said
,that it means that they shall disclose where they are.
-But what good will this do the administratrix, if she
does not get them ? If the plaintiffs knew where the
4securities were, the arbitrators ought to have compelled their production. If they do not know, what
good will their oath do us ? But perhaps it may be
,said, that it means that they shall account on oath
for their value. This, indeed, would be more reaa

Kyd on .Swards,127.

b Pope v. Brett, 2 Saund. 292. Ross v. Hodges, 1 LA.
Raym. 234.
VOL. V.

51

v.

1

402

"CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1820.

sonable, than merely telling us where they were: and

Lyle

if this was the intention of the arbitrators, they ought

V.
to have valued them, and could delegate this power
Red~gets.

to no other person, much less to a party. Suppose
it to mean .either, the award is void. And it is void
for uncertainty, because it may mean either. It is
idmitted, on the other side, that an award nmust be
certain on its face, or refer to something by which it
may be made certain. Now this award is full of
uncertainties on its face, and refers to nothing by
which they can be explained. It is said that it refers
us to a knowledge of the parties. But that is not
sufficient. The case cited from Lord Raymond,was between .mortgagor and mortgagee, who may
be presumed to know, and there was no dispute as to
facts: but here it is the case of an administratrix who
did not know, and a part of the dispute was what
was pledged. All these uncertainties are left to be
determined by the plaintiffs, who are to return whatever they may choose. But we have the same right
to the pledges which they have to the debt, and the
value or amount of neither should be left to the parties; Suppose the award had been, that one party
should return all the pledges,. and the other should
pay all the money borrowed. Here would have
been the same uncertainty, but it would have been

reciprocal: and if an award that one party should
pay all that was lent, or account on oath for all that
was lent, would be a nullity ; an award that the other
party shall return all the pledges, or account for them
a Ld. Raym. 234.

OF THE UNITED STATEIS.

on oath, is equally void. The rules relative to "12o.
Lyle
awards have been derived from the civil law, and
v.
that law deems them void upon the same ground of Rodgers,
what
or
nothing,
award decides
uncertainty.'

This

is the same thing, it decides what was unimportant,
and leaves all that was material to be taken ad referendanz. It does not state in what character J. Dennison is indebted to the plaintiffs. The award ought
to show the character ii which she is chargeable. It
is impossible to charge the debt on the estate. If
this award had been against her in her representative
character, and it had simply declared a debt due from
her intestate, specifying the amount, she might have
pleaded plene administravit. Otherwise, if it had declared that she should pay a certain sum. But it has
done neither, and the award is, therefore, void for uncertainty. The great object of the- arbitration was, to
ascertain what deeds were in fact mortgages, though
purporting to be absolute conveyances; and what
bonds, &c. were pledged, the plaintiffs not having
admitted them. It was designed to ascertain the
doubtful equitable circumstances of the case; every
thing, in -short, which the arbitrators have forborne
to decide. The award recognises the existence of
these conveyances and pledges, but does not ascertain them, nor provide any mode of ascertaining
them. It was not general, but specific relief, which
was expected fi'om the award. We admit that an
alternative award is valid, if entirely good; but if
either branch of the alternative be bad, the whole is
a Dig. 1. 4. t. 8. s, 21. n, 3.

404

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1820.
Lyle
L

V.

The award here does not entitle the administratrix to a disclosure on oath. If the plaintiffs
adopted the alternative of delivering up the securities, they were not to perform the other, that
is, to
take the oath. The acts were not conjunctive, but
disjunctive; and one part being void, the whole is
void. The same argument applies to other parts of
the award. There is an intimate connexion between
those which are certain, (if there are any such,) and
those which are uncertain. The whole is, therefore,
void.
void.a

Mr. Hopkinson, in reply, argued, that all the objections to the award in this case were merely technical. It was not attempted to impeach it upon the
ground of partiality or misconduct in the arbitrators;
nor could it be denied, that the debt liquidated by it
was justly due to the plaintiffs. As to the objection
that administrators and executors have no power to

submit to arbitration the title to lands, it does not
appear by the submission bond that the title to any
lands was in dispute, or was submitted. No question as to lands ever came before the arbitrators.
And if the arbitrators had awarded as to lands, it
might be rejected as surplusage. The alternatives of
reconveying or releasing, as the case might require,
the lands pledged, would be determined in each particular case, by the fact, whether the conveyance
was absolute on its face or conditional. If the former, then it was to be reconveyed; if the latter, it
a 2 Saund. 292.

Sergeant Williams' Note.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

was to be released.

But it is said, that the arbitra-

tors ought to have distinguished the character in
which J. Dennison was indebted. This was unnecesupon hersary, as she had assumed the whole liability
self in her individual capacity. In the bond she has
bound herself personally to perform the award, and
she has mixed her individual accounts with those of
the estate. Non constat, that any part of the debt is
due from the estate. The award to reconvey all
lands, and to return all bonds, &c. pledged as collateral security, is good; because the arbitrators
could not tell what lands were conveyed as collateral security, nor what bonds, &c. were pledged for
the same purpose. Both were within the knowledge of the parties, and neither were within the
knowledge of the arbitrators. It is denied that if
one part of the alternative, as to the securities, is
void, the other is so. We do not contend that the
arbitrators have decided what was not submitted to
them; but we say it was not submitted to them
to determine what conveyances were made as
pledges, and what were absolute on the face of them.
The award is good unless the arbitrators were bound
to give a list of the conveyances and security. This
they could not do, because they had no means of
ascertaining them specifically. But they ascertain
them sufficiently by classification, which it is in the
power of the parties to apply to each individual

405
182o.

Lyle

V.
Rogers.

case.

Mr. Chief Justice MARtSHALL delivered the opinion of the Court. The questions submitted to the

Jarck 151A

CASES IN TIE SUPREME COURT *

ge

Court on the statement of facts made by the parties
were, 1st. " Whether the said letters so offered.by
the defendants, or any of them, are competent and
sufficient evidence to prove what matters of dispute

The letters offered by the
defendant

or controversy were submitted to the said arbitrators
under the said bond?"
2d. " Whether the said award in the terms aforesaid, or taken in connexion with the evidence so offered by the defendant, (if such evidence be decided by
the Court to be competent and admissible,) is valid,
and sufficient in law ?"
The matter contained in the letters was pleaded
by the defendant in his rejoinder, as being part of

1820.
Lyle

V.

were
tent

ce

tIdnthe subject in controversy, and is, consequently, conHad the demurrer been
topute e st- fessed by the demurrer.
drepectIng
argued, therefore the first question could not have
thw lands
e

mention, d in
the k,,ters,

But as a statement of facts has been sub- stituted for the demurrer, we presume, the question
o bougthe
bitrators.
respecting the admissibility of the evidence offered
by the defendant is to be considered as if issuie had
been joined on the fact stated in the rejoinder. So
considering it, there is, we think, no doubt of the admissibility of the testimony, nor of its competency,
taken in connexion with the award itself, to prove,
that a dispute existed respecting the lands mentioned
in those letters, which was brought before the arbitrators.
We proceed to the second question, which respects
Pefect in the
Pefc in o- the validity of the award.
mitting to
The first exception taken to this award is, that it
state whether
the sum due
from J. D.was omits to state, whether the sum due from Jerusha
due in herown
right, or in her Vennison, was due fxom her in her own right, or as
which dispute

caate.
r resentatie

arisen.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
182o.
administratrix of Gideon Dennison. The claims
upon her in both characters, are submitted to the reLyle
..
ferees; and they ought to have decided upon all, and
to have distinguished between those which she was Rodgers.
required to pay in her representative character, and
those for which she was bound personally. Had this
case been depending in Chancery, where alone the
two claims could have been united in one suit, the
Chancellor would unquestionably have discriminated
between them ; and would, in his decree, have ascertained in what character the whole. sum was to
be paid, or how much was to be paid in each. If
this award was made against Mrs. Dennison as administratrix, she would not only be deprived by its
form, of the right to plead a full administration, (a
defence which might have been made before the arbitrators, and on which their award does not show
certainly, that they have decided,) but also of the
right to use it in the settlement of her accounts as
conclusive evidence, that the money was paid in her
representative character If this objection to the
award is to be overruled, it must be on the supposition, that it is made against her personally; yet the
statement of facts shows the claim against her to be
in her representative character. There is certainly
a want of precision in this part of the award, which
exposes it to solid objection, and might subject Mrs.
Dennison to serious inconvenience.
The second exception to which the Court will ad- Second dcf"t
vert, affects still more deeply the merits of the award, inU,e.d
as well as its justice.
It is apparent from the pleadings in the cause,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

408
1820.
Lyle

v.

'Rodgers.

from the facts stated, and from the award itself, that
titles to land were deposited by Gideon Dennison,
in his life time, with the plaintiffs, as collateral security for the debt claimed by them; and that the
conveyances purported to be absolute. Not only
was there uncertainty as to the right of redemption;
but it was, so far as the Court can discover, absolutely uncertain what lands had been so conveyed.
This subject appears to have been brought before
the arbitrators, and they have awarded upon it. Is
their award sufficiently certain to give Jerusha Dennison the benefit they intended her ? They have
awarded C1that the said Joshua B. Bond and James
Lyle, shall reconvey or release as the case may require, all lands heretofore conveyed or pledged to
them, by the late Gideon Dennison, as a collateral
security. 2 The award does not determine what
lands were so conveyed. If the arbitrators had directed that all the lands conveyed or pledged by
Gideon Dennison should be reconveyed, there would
have been some difficulty in ascertaining what lands
had been conveyed or pledged, from the uncertainty
where deeds might have been recorded, and whether
grants might not have been deposited without a conveyance; but they have directed that those lands
only shall be reconveyed, which had been conveyed
or pledged as collateral security. No one of these
deeds exhibited on its face any mark of its being
made as a collateral security. The question, whether a conveyance was absolute, or as a security only, was a material question, which ought to have
beefi decided by the arbitrators. They have not de-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

409

1so.
cided it, but have left it open to be decided by the
%
This
tribunal.
other
some
by
or
parties themselves,
Lyle
V.
is a very important part of the award, and with reRodgers.
obviis
It
incomplete.
is
it
subject,
this
spect to
ously as uncertain now, as it was before the award
was made, what lands had been conveyed or pledged
to Gideon Dennison as collateral security. This
part of the award then is void, and the question is,
whether that part which directs the payment of money be void also?
That an award may be void in part, and good foxt Thatapart ot
void
the residue, will be readily adwitted ; but if that whichis
ty, being so
part which is void be so connected with the rest as coanectedvit
the rest as io
ffect the justo affect the justice ofthe case between the parties, tice
of the case
the
the whole is void.e There is great good sense in this between
parties, the

distinction.

If A. be directed to pay B. $100, and

also to do some other act not well encugh defined to
be obligatory, there is no reason why B. should not
have his $100, because he cannot also get that other
thing which was intended for him. But if A. be
,directed to pay B. $100, and B. to do something for
the benefit of A., which is not so defined as to enable
A. to obtain it, there'is much reason why A. should
not pay the $100 ; since he cannot obtain that which
the arbitrators as much intended he should receive,
as that he should pay the sum awarded against
him.
The cause in 2 Saunders, 292, is it point. In
that case the arbitrators awarded, that William Popq
a Kyd, 246.
Von. V.

52

wholeisvoid

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

410
1820.

Lyle

V.

todger.

should be satisfied and paid by John Brett, the nioney due and payable to the said William Pope, as
well for task work as for day work, and then the
said William should pay to the said John the sum of
£Z25 lawful money of England. Mutual releases
were also awarded.
It was admitted that so much of the award as directed payment to be made for task work and day
work, was void for uncertainty, inasmuch as the arbitrator had not ascertained how much was to be
paid on those accounts; but it was contended that
the award was good for the residue, inasmuch as
enough remained to make it mutual. But the Court
said, "that if the clause of task work and day work
be void, as it is admitted to be, the whole award is
void, for it appears that William Pope was awarded
to pay the £25, and to give a geneial release, upon a
supposition by the arbitrator, that he should be paid
the task work and day work by virtue of that award ;
and that not being so, it was not the intention of the
arbitrators, as appears by the award itself, that he
should pay the money, and give a general release,
and yet receive nothing for the task work and day
work, as by reason of the uncertainty of the award
in that part he could not."
The application of this case to that under cqnside-.
ration is complete. The award to reconvey all lands
heretofore conveyed or pledged to the plaintiffs by
Gideon Dennison, in his life time, as collateral sequrity, is as uncertain as the award to pay for task work
and day work already performed; it ;aas as much

OF THE UNITED STATZS.

the intention of the arbitrators that the parts of their
-awardwhich were favourable to the different parties
should be dependent on each-other in this case, as in
the case of Pope v. Brett. The arbitrators never
could have designed that Bond and -Lyle should get
their money; and retain their deposits.
In his note upon this case, Sergeant Williams says,
"If by the nullity of the award in any part, one of
the parties cannot have the advantage intended him
as a recompense or consideration, for that which he
is to do to the other, the award is void in the
whole."
Thisjust principle must always remain a part of
the law of awards.
The objection to the part of the award which has
been considered, applies equally to that part of it
w1ich respects bonds, notes, bills, or other securitie.
Judgment affirmed..

1820.
Lyle
Lyle

V.

Rodlgers

