338

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1820.

facts are necessarily inquirable into by a Court and

The Josefa
Segunda.

jury; and this inquiry is not confined to written instruments, (to which alone the principle contenoed
for could apply,) but to any act with, or without writing, within the scope of the power or confidence re-

posed in the agent; as, for instance, in the case of
money credited in the books of a teller, or proved to
have been deposited with him, though he omits to

credit it.
Judgment affirmed.

(PaIzE AND INSTANCE COURT.)

The

Carricaburaet al.
Claimants.

JOSEFA SEGUNDA,

An information under the act of the 3d of March, 1807, c. 77. to
prevent the importation of slaves into the United States. The alleged unlawful importation attempted to be excused upon the
plea of distress. Excuse repelled, and condemnation pronounced.
Upon a piratical capture, the property of the original owners cannot
be forfeited for the misconduct of the captors in violating the municipal laws of the country where the vessel seized by them is carried.
But where the capture is made by a regularly commissioned captor,
he acquires a title to the captured property, which can only be devested by recapture, or by the sentence of a competent tribunal of
his own country ; and the property is subject to forfeiture for a violation, by the captor, of the revenue or other municipal laws of the
neutral country into which the prize may be carried.

APPEAL

from the District Court of Louisiana.

From the proceedings in the Court below, it appear-

OF

T

HE UNITED STATES.

199

ed, that the brig Josefa Segunda being Spanish property, and on a voyage from nthe coast of Africa to

The Josefa

the island of Cuba, with a cargo of negroes, was

Segu~da.

captured on the lIth day of February, 18 18, off
Cape Tiberon in St. Domingo, by the Vcnmzuelan
privateer, the General Arismendi. On the 24th of
April following, she was seized in the river Mississippi, by certain custom house officers, and conducted to New-Orleans, where a libel was filed against
her in the District Court for the Louisiana district.
The libel contained four counts. The first alleged, that the said negroes were unlawfully brought
into the United States from some foreign country
in the said brig, with intent to hold, sell, or dispose
of them as slaves, or with intent that the same
should beheld to service or labour, contrary to the
act of Congress in such case made and provided.
The second .count alleged, that these negroes were
taken, received and transported on board the said
brig, from some, of the coasts or kingdoms of Africa, or from some other foreign; kingdom, place, or
country, for the purpose of selling them in some port
or place within the jurisdiction of the United States,
as slaves, or to be held to service or labour, contrary,
&c. In the third count it was charged, that the said
brig was found.in some river, port, bay, or harbour
of the United States, or on the high seas, within the
jurisdictional limits of the United States, or hovering
on the coast thereof, to wit, in the river Mississippi,
having on board some negroes, mulattoes, or people
of colour, for the purpose of selling them as slaves,
or with an intent to land the sdrhe, in some port or

1820.

CASES IN TIIE SUPREME COURT *

840
38,20.

place within the jurisdiction of the United States,

To Josefa% contrary,
The

Seguanda.

&c.

The fourth allegation or count was,

that one hundred and seventy-five persons of colour,
not being native citizens, or registered seamen of
the United States, or natives of countries beyond the
Cape of Good Hope, were landed from said brig, in
a port or place, situate in a State which, by law, had
prohib'ted the admission or importation as aforesaid,
to wit, at or near the Balize in the State of Louisiana, contrary, &C.
This libel was filed on the 29th of April, 1818,
and on the 5th of May following, a claim was interposed by Messrs. Carricabura, Arieta & Co. merchants of the Havanna, which stated, that they were
owners of the said brig, which, with the said negro
slaves, was on the high seas, while pursuing a lawful voyage, captured and taken from them by a certain Rene Beluche, and the crew of the armed ship
or vessel called the General Arismendi, sailing under the flag of the revolted colonies of Venezuela
and New-Grenada; that the said brig put into the
Balize in very great distress, and without any intention on the part of the crew, or any other person on
board, toinfringe or violate any law of the United
States. That whatever may have been the conduct
of the prizc crew, or of any other persons on board,
the claimants insist, that they cannot be made responsible for any of their acts, because the said brig,
with her cargo. was taken from their possession unlawfully, and in iolation of the law of nations, inasmuch as the captors had no legal authority to take the
same ; and if they had any commission, the capture

OF THE UNITED STATES.

was illegal, because the privateer the General Aris-

182o.

mnendi, was armed and fitted out, or her armament

The Josefn

or equipment increased, in a port of the United States, Segunda.
in violation of the laws thereof.
On this libel and claim, it appeared in evidence
that the capture of the brig Josefa Segunda, with
a cargo of slaves, was made off Cape Tiberon, in
the Island of St. Domingo, on the I1th of FebruaTy, 1818, on a voyage to the Havanna, from the
coast of Africa, which she had left in the preceding
month of December or January. The capture was
made by a Ven'ezuelan brig, the General Arismendi.
This vessel was commissioned as a privateer, by
John Baptista Arismendi, who styled himself commanding General of Venezuela, and Captain General of the Island of Marguerita. The caption of the
commission was, "1 Republic of Venezuela ;1 and it
purported to have been given in the Island of Marguerita, the 1st of February, in the year 1818, and
to be sealed with the great seal of the State. At the
time of capture, there were from two to three hundred slaves on board ; some of these, but what number does not appear, afterwards died; others, but
how many is not stated, were sold at the Jardias de
]a Reine. on the south side of the Island of Cuba, in
order to purchase provisions. T oward the end of
the month of February, the prize master of the brig
received written orders from the Captain of the privatee" to conduct the prize to the Island of Marguerita ;
and always steered, a he says, eastward, the winds
being always ahead, The prize master had no log
book on board; he wrote every day's octcuirrences on

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

a slate, effacing what had been written the day before,
The Josefa~ On the 18th of April, 1818, in the morning, the brig
-Segunda. was boarded by a pilot, about 40 miles from the
Balize, and arrived there at 4 o'clock, P.x. About
25 miles from the Balize, the brig fell in with the
American ship Balize, from which no provisions
were asked, but from whom he received six bags of
rice. On the 24th of April, the brig was seized by
the custom-house officers, and conducted to NewOrleans. On the 27th of April, 1818, Laporte, who
was the agent of Beluche at New-Orleans, wrote a
letter to the prize master of the brig, containing,
-anong others, these expressions, "Maintain always
your declaration of being forced into port."--" Take
care that your sailors neither say, nor do any thing,
-which may prejudice the interest of Venezuela."
The privateer, after the capture of the brig, went to
Jamaica for provisions. The pilot who first boarded
the-brig stated, that her mainmast was sprung, her
ropes were all bad, the sails not fit to go to sea ; that
they were pumping the last cask of water on board.
Her spars were middling, except the mainmast; there
were no provisions on board-the men were in a
state of starvation-that the slaves had nothing but
skin upon their bones. A witness, who was on
board in her passage .up the river, stated that the
brig sailed equal to any thing in the river-that he
would not be afraid to make a voyage in her--,.her
tackle, ropes, &c. were as good as usual-she was
pumped out but once while he was on bard-they
carried-topsails coming up-the spars were gene.ally good. He saw nothing in the appearance of
1820.

M

OF *THE UNITED STATES.

the crew of their having been starved. It also apNew-Or6 claimants in~The
peared that the agent of the
leans, received letters from the owners of the brig
sometime prior to her arrival at New-Orleans, and
that one of the owners had arrived in that city, while
this cause was depending, and before the 19th of
June, 1818.
It was admitted by the claimant, that there existed an understanding between them and the captors ;
that the tbrmer were to render to the latter a compensation for their not interposing any claim, which
was so far ascertained, that the sum which the captors were to receive, was not to be less than six, nor
more than eight thousand dollars, to depend on the
expense and trouble incident to the prosecution,
and the repairing of the vessel; that this arrangement
was made by the advice of the captor's counsel, from
a conviction on his part, that they could not recover
on account, as he conceived, of the illegality of the
commission. It was also admitted, that the claimants were the original owners of the -brig and slaves
on board.
On this testimony, the District Court condemned
the brig, and effects found- on board, to the Uited
States, and the cause was brought by appeal to this
Court.

1820.
T

e
Josefa

Seunda.

Mr. C. J. Ingersoll, for the appellants and claim- march 9La.
ants, argued, L. That the vessel was compelled by
necessity to enter the Mississippi, and, therefore, was
not liable to forfeiture under the acts of Congress
for suppressing the slave trade. 2. That the com-

.3"4
1820.

e
The Josefa

Segundu.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

mission of General Arismendi, under which the original capture was made, was unlawful, he having no
authority to issue it as Governor of the island of
Marguerita, a dependent province of the new State
of Venezuela. The owners were, therefore, entitled
to restitution under the 9th article of the Spanish
treaty of 1795, as well as under the general law of
nations; the right of property not being changed by
a piratical seizure.a 3. But supposing it to have
been a regular capture in the exercise of the rights
of war, and supposing the captors to have entered
the waters of the United States with the intention
of violating the -acts of Congress; it is insisted, that
the prize thus carried into a neutral port, before udjudication, cannot be forfeited to the neutral State
for a breach of its municipal laws committed by the
captors, without the consent or collusion of the original owners. It has been repeatedly determfined,
that when captures are made in violation of our neutral rights, as ascertained by the law of nations, the
acts of Congress, and treaties with foreign powers,
restitution of the captured property will be decteed
by our tribunals to the original owners.' Why ?
Because it is the right as well as duty of 'the nation
to -prevent its neutral territory and resources from
being used for the purposes of hostility by either belligerent. It will, therefore, restore in two cases:
a Grotius, de T. B. ac P. 1. 3. c. 9. s.17. Bynk. Q.J. Pub.
1. 1. c. 17. Valin, sur I'Ordon. 1. 3. tit. 9. art. 10.. 2 -Bro.
Civ. 4-Adm. Law, 461.
b The Divina Pastora, 4 Wheat. 52. 55. and the caecs cited in.

]Rote.(a)

OF TH

UNITED STATES.

First, where the capture is made within its territorial is2.
limits; and, secondly, when made by a vessel armed The Josefa
or re-equipped in its ports. The same principles Segund-.
apply where the captor violates the laws of police,
or the revenue laws of the neutral State. The infringement of the one is as injurious to that State,
and to the captured belligerent, as the infringement
of the other. The injury to the original owner is
equally great, whether the privateer was fitted in the
neutral ports, or is permitted to carry his prizes into
those ports for sale. The spes recuperandiis gone;
and will the neutral sovereign condescend to avail
himself, as against an innocent friend, of the forfeiture incurred by the misconduct of the enemy of the
latter ? The captor cannot sell ; he cannot completely
devest the original owner of his remaining right to
the captured property before its lawful condemnation: shall he then be permitted to do so by smuggling, or even by attempting, or barely intending to
smuggle it in a neutral port? It is the well estabushed doctrine of public law, that belligerents have
no right to sell or dispose of their prizes in a neutral
port, before they are judicially condemned in a competent Court of the captor's country ; unless in case
of necessity, or when the right is secured to them
by treaty, or by the express permission of the neutral government; or in case of the intervention
of peace.a If, then, the captor has not such an
a Bee's 4dm. Rep. 263. The Flad Oyen, 1 Rob. 114. The
The Scboone Sophie,
Purissima Conception, 6 Rob. 45.
b. 138. 2 Bro. Cir. 4. 4tdm. Law, 255. 1 Peters' Adm. Dec.
24. 2 Peters' A. D. 345. The Kierlighett, 3 Rob. 82. WheelVOL. V.

44

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1820.
Teofhim

The Josefa
Segunda.

interest in his uncondemned prize, as will enable
dispose of it by sale to another, how can he
toodips
be said to have such an interest as will enable him
to forfeit it to the neutral State for a breach of its
municipal laws ? This is a novel question, both here
and in the European Courts of prize. It is indeed
settled, that the Prize Court may dismiss the claim
of a citizen, violating the law of his own country
where the court sits ; or of an ally or neutral violating the treaties between his own country and that
of the Court; and that it may dismiss the libel of a
captor (of the country where the Court sits,) for a
collusive capture, or for a violation of the laws of
trade. But the moment the neutral Court, in the
present case, ascertained that this was a capture jure
beifi, or piratical, it had nothing to do but to restore
it to the original possessor. The captor had not such
a proprietary interest as rendered him capable of forfeiting it to the United States. The first case of a
forfeiture in the Prize Court for a breach of municipal law, which is reported, is that of the Walsingham Packet :4 that was the case of a British packet,
retaken from the enemy, wherein a claim was given
for the cargo as the property of British and Portuguese merchants, and resisted on the part of the captors, on the ground that such trade was prohibited
by act of Parliament. Here the jurisdiction of the
right v. Depeyster, 1 Johns. Rep. 471. 481.
Sur l'Ord. 272. and seq.

of Nations, 323.
a 2 Rob. 64.

2 Vatn. Com.

Vattel, 1. 4. c. 2. s. 22. Marten's Law

Wheat. on Capt. 262.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Court, with respect to the thing recaptured, was un182o.
questionable; and Sir W. Scott rejected the claim The Josefa
e"'a
on account of the claimants own personal mis- Segunda.
conduct,' reserving the ultimate question, to whom
the property should be condemned. In the case
of the Etrusco,a it was subsequently determined, that
condemnation in such cases should be, not to
the captors, but to the crown. In the case of
the Recoveryb Sir W. Scott determined, that the
claim of a neutral could not be rejected in a Prize
Court of the captor's country, for violating the municipal law of that country. Why ? Because, as to
him, it was a mere Court of the law of nations,
though as to British subjects it was also a Court of
municipal law. As to him, the offence was merely
nalum prohibitum; as to British subjects, it was
2nalum in se : and they had no right to complain if
they were punished for it in any tribunal of their
own country, however constituted. The cases of
the Bothnea and the Jahnstaffe and of the George, d
in this Court, were also cases where the Court had
undoubted prize jurisdiction, and the original owner
being an enemy, could interpose no claim. The
captor had been guilty of collusion with the public
enemy, and had assisted him in violating the non-importation act. The Court, therefore, dismissed his
libel, and condemned the property to the United
a 4 Rob. 256. Note.
b 6 Rob. 341.
c 2 Wheat. 169.
d ib. 278.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

States. A similar observation is applicable to the
The Josefa case of the Venusa in which the joint claim of a citiSegunda. zen, and an alien, to the vessel, was rejected, on the
ground that the former bad made a false oath, in
order to obtain a register, whereby she became liable
to forfeiture under the registry act. The District
Court of Louisiana, beside its Circuit Court powers,
may exercise jurisdiction as a Prize Court, or an Instance Court of Admiralty. In neither of these capacities could it take cognizance of the present case.
Not as a Prize Court: for the jurisdiction belonged
exclusively to the Venezuelan tribunals. Nor as an
Instance Court of the law of nations: since, as such,
its decree could only be for restitution to the captors
or to the original owners, according as our neutrality had or had not been violated. Nor as an Instance
"Court of municipal law, could it condemn the captured property of a friend before it had been
declared good prize by a competent prize tribunal ; unless perhaps where the owner or his
agent had subjected his property to such a forfeiture by an offence against the municipal law,
consummated before the capture. The proper course
of proceeding, where there is no collusion between
the captor and the former owner, is to punish those
captors who attempt to violate our municipal laws in
th same manner as those who violate our neutrality;
that is, by dispossessing them of their prizes, and
restoring them to the original proprietors. Such was
the conduct of Holland on a similar omission, as
1820.

a 8 Cranch, 253.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

349

stated by Bynkershoek.a It is true, that he animad- 1820.
verts upon these ordinances of the States General; h
but his reflections will be found to be solely applica- Segu-da.
ble to his own favourite notion of the right of belligerents to carry their prizes into neutral ports, and to
a The passage of Bynkershoek here alluded to is as follows:
He begins by observing: " Although it be lawful, on national
principles, to carry a prize into neutral territory, and there to
sell it, if the captor thinks proper, laws have, nevertheless,
more than once been made to the contrary." He then pro-,
ceeds : " The States General, on the 9th of August, 1658, issued an edict, by which they ordered, that no foreign captor
who might be compelled by stress of weather, or some other
reasonable cause, to bring his prize into the ports of this country, should presume to sell any part of it, or even to break
bulk, but that he should inform the bailiff of the place -of his
arrival, who, having placed a guard on board of the ship, should
keep a strict watch over her, until her departure: inflicting,
moreover, a discretionary penalty, and a fine of one thousand
florins, on any one that should assist in unloading, or purchase
any thing out of her. To which edict, the said States General, on the 7th of November, in the same year, enacted a supplement, by which it was ordered, that no prize ship should be
brought into the port itself, but merely into the outer roads,
where she might be sheltered from danger, and that nothing
should be unladen or sold out of her; and ifany one should act
to the contrary, the prize should be restored to the former owner,
as though it had never been taken, and the captor himselfshoulid be
detained,and his own vessel seized and confiscated. The remainder of the edict merely confirms that of the 9th of August above
mentioned. Whether those edicts were extorted from the
States General by fear, or by any other cause, I do not know;
but lest they should hereafter militate against national principles, we must declare, that we rather believe them to have
been temporary than perpetual laws." Bynk. Q. J. Pub. L.
1. p. 121. of Mr. DTonceau's translation.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

sell them there, which has long since been exploded.
The force of this historical example is not diminishTh oe'
Segunda. ed by his criticism, founded, as it is, upon a false
theory. In the case now before the Court, there
can be no objection to restitution, on the ground
of the traffic in which the original owners were engaged, being prohibited by the laws of their own
country ; for it is notorious, that Spain tolerates the
trade. The principle, therefore, applied by the
Lords of Appeal in England, to an American slave
trader, in the case of the Amediea does not apply to
this case. And Sir Win. Scott, since the determination of the Lords, has decided, in the -case of a Swedish vessel, that he would not condemn, because
there was no positive proof, that Sweden had prohibited the trade, although it did not appear, that
this State had ever sanctioned it, or that her subjects
had been in the habit of carrying it on.b If it be
said, that the condemnation rests on the act of Congress, and that this act is general in its terms, and
makes no distinction as to the manner in which vessels violating the law may have been brought into
our waters; it is answered, that, like all other penal
laws, it must receive an equitable and liberal construction, and cannot be applied to cases of distress,
or other cases of vis major.
1820.

The Atorney General, contra, argued principally
upon the facts, to show, that the capture was collua Acton's Rep. 240. Edinburgh Retv
436.

Wheat. on Capt. 227.

b The Diana, Dodson, 9K.

Pot. 16. .No. XXI.p.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

sive, and that, consequently, the Court had jurisdiction to condemn the property to the United States,
in a case where the captor and captured had combined in a scheme of fraud to defeat the execution of
our municipal laws. He insisted, that even if this
were not the fact, that the captors had by possession,
jure belli, such a title to the property as rendered it
liable to confiscation for any breach of our laws by
the captors. Their title could only be devested by
recapture, or by the sentence of a competent prize
Court of their own country; and how improbable it
was that such Court would dispossess them of it, is
shown by the proofs and the pleadings in this cause,
by which it appears, that the property was Spanish,
and, therefore, liable to condemnation in the Prize
Courts of Venezuela. The establishment of a contrary doctrine by the Court, would furnish an effetual recipe by which all our laws of trade might be
violated with impunity; since it would be extremely
difficult in many cases to show, that the capture was
collusive, and in case of detection in the attempt to
smuggle, the claimant would have nothing to do but
to throw the blame upon the pretended captor, whilst
in case of success, he would reap the fruits which
might attend it. However ingeniously contrived
such a scheme might be, it was the duty of the Court
to penetrate through it, and when detected, to visit
it with the penalty of confiscation.

1820.

The Josefa
Segunda.

Mr. Justice LIVINGSTON delivered the opinion of .rarcl
the Court, and after stating the facts, proceeded as follows: The third count of the libel is the only one

Ni,.

352
1820.

The Josefa
Segunda.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

that has any bearing on the present case. It alleges
a violation of the seventh section of an act of Congress, prohibiting the importation of slaves into the

United States, after the first day of January, in the
year 1808, and which passed the 3d of March,
1807.
By this section it is enacted, "1That if any ship or
vessel shall be found, from and after the first day of
January, 1808, in any river, port, bay, or harbour, or
on the high seas, Within the jurisdictional limits of
the United States, or hovering on the coast thereof,
having on board any negro, mulatto, or person of
colour, for the purpose of selling them as slaves, or
with intent to land the same in any port or place
within the jurisdiction of the United States, contrary to the prohibition of this act, every such ship or
vessel, together with her tackle, apparel, and furniture, and the goods or effects which shall be found
on board the same, shall be forfeited to the use of
the United States, and may be seized, prosecuted,
and condemned, in any Court of the United States
having jurisdiction thereof. And the proceeds of all
such ships and vessels, their tackle, apparel and furniture, and the goods and effects on board of them,
which shall be so seized, prosecuted, and condemned,
shall be divided equally between the United States
and the Officers and men who shall make such seizure, or bring the same into port for condemnation,
and the same shall be distributed in like manner, as
is provided by law for the distribution of prizes taken
from an enemy: provided that the officers and men
to be entitled to one half of the proceeds aforesaid,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

9"51

1820.
shall safe-keep every negro, mulatto, or person of
colour, found on board of any ship or vessel so seized The Jnsefa
by them, and deliver them to such persons as shall Segunda.
be appointed by the respective States to receive the
same," &c.
It is not denied, that the brig Josefa Segunda,
shortly before her seizure, had been hovering on the
coast of the United States, having on hoard a large
number of persons of the description of those whose
importation into this country is prohibited by the act:
nor can there be any doubt, from the situation and
circumstances under which she was found, and the
mniner in which she came within the jurisdictional
limits of the United States, which appears to have
been a voluntary act on the part of the prize master,
that there is at least priafaicieevidence of an intention to dispose of these people as slaves, or to
land them in some port or place within the jurisdiction of the United States.
The claimants, aware of the necessity of accounting for circumstances, which, unexplained, could not
but prove fatal to their interests, contend, in the first
place, that the coming into the Mississippi was a
matter of necessity, produced by the perilous situation
of the vessel, and the famishing condition of the
people on board: and that, therefore, neither she nor
her cargo can be obnoxious to the provisions of the
act of Congress. If the claim be not sustained on
this plea ; it is insisted,
In the next place, that the capture being illegal or
piratical, the original owners cannot be affected by
any of the acts of the prize crew; and,
VOL. V.

45

354
1820.

' Josefa
The
gunda

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

In the third place, it is asserted, that the vessel
having been ransomed, and taken out of the hands
of the captors, the claimants are restored to all their
original rights, unimpaired by any acts on the part of
the former.
Each of these claims for restitution will now be
examined.
When any aet is done, which of itself, and unexplained, is a violation of law, and a party to extricate
himself, or his property, from the consequences of it,
resorts to the plea of necessity or distress, the burthen of proof is not only thrown upon him; but
when the temptation to infringe the law is great,
and the alleged necessity, if real, can be fully and
easily established, no Court should be satisfied with
any thing short of the most convincing and conclusive testimony. The proofs before us. are so far
from being of this character, that we look in vain for
testimony of any serious disaster having befallen this
vessel in her voyage from the Island of Cuba, to the
.Mississippi,-or for a calamity of any kind, which
might not have been averted or prevented, had the
master seriously and honestly endeavoured to reach
the Island of Marguerita, which is now pretended to
have been her real port of destination. That neither
he, nor his employer, should have any great solicitude for the arrival of the prize at Marguerita, is
easily accounted for, when it is recollected that this
island, as well from its small extent, being not more
than forty miles in length, and perhaps not more
than half as broad, as from the scantiness and poverty of its population, could afford but a wretched, if

OF THtE UNITED STATES.

1820.
any market at all for slaves; while at New-Orlean,
each of them would produce the extravagant and The rosea
tempting sum of one thousand dollars. It has not Segunu-.
escaped the observation of the Court, that the General Arismendi, made the passage from Marguerita to
the place of capture off the Island of St. Domingo,
in the short space of nine days; for the owner's letter of instructions to the Captain bears date at Marguerita on the 2d day of February, 1818, and on
the IIth of the same month, the capture was made;
and yet with the important fact before us, it is seriously contended, that a voyage which had just been
made in nine days, could not be performed back
again in six weeks. This is a possible case ; but
we ought not to be expected on slight grounds to believe that a vessel after leaving the Island of Cuba,
in the latter end of February, should, on the 18th of
April following, be found, not only several miles
farther from h*er destined port than at the time of
sailing, but that she had pursued this circuitous route
in search of provisions: a story so improbable could
hardly, under any circumstance, be entitled to belief;
but it becomes absolutely incredible, when so many
ports, more contiguous, and where supplies might
easily have been obtained, were passed in her way
to the Balize, without a single effort to procure a
supply at any of them. Why not go to Kingston, in
Jamaica, which was in the neighbourhood of the
place where the capture was made, and to which
port, the privateer went after making the capture ?
Her not going there can be accounted for on no
supposition other than that of her being well 9uppli-

356
1820.

~It

The Josefa

Segunda.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

ed with provisions at the time of her leaving Cuba.
is vain then to urge a plea, which is contradicted
by the internal evidence of the case. If, however,
it can be made out, that an attempt were really made
to reach Marguerita, which was frustrated by adverse winds, or by any one of those disasters which
so frequently occur on the ocean, or that the Josefa
was forced by stress of weather so very far from the
track of a direct voyage. to that island, the claimant
might still contend, that their plea of necessity had
been made out. But, on this subject, there is an
impenetrable obscurity, which it was their duty to
remove. What winds, or what weather were encotintered, we are not informed. No log book, from
which alone, accurate and safe knowledge might be
derived, is produced. A journal of that kind was
not even kept, a circumstance which, of itself, excites a suspicion, which none of the testimony in the
cause is calculated to dispel. But it is not necessary
to pursue this inquiry farther, or to take notice of
several minor circumstances which are relied on, and
which so far from making out a case of real distress,
only serve to confirm the view which has already
been taken of the other evidence, and leave no reasonable doubt of the whole story being a fiction ; or
that the want of provisions, if real, at the time of
seizure, was produced by a voluntary protraction of
the voyage for the purpose, and with the intent of
violating the law on which the present libel is founded. If, on testimony so vague, so contradictory, and
affording so little satisfaction, this Court should
award restitution, all the acts of Congress which

OF THE UNITED STATES.

1157

182o.
have been passed to prohibit the importation of
slaves into the United States, may as well be ex- The sefa

punged from the statute book ; and this inhuman
traffic, for the abolition of which the United States
have manifested an early and honourable anxiety,
might, under the most frivolous pretexts, be carried
on, not only with impunity, but with a profit which
would keep in constant excitement the cupidity of
those who think it no crime to engage in this unrighteous commerce. In the execution of these
laws, no vigilance can be excessive, and restitution
ought never to be made, but in cases which are
purged of every intentional violation, by proofs the
most clear, the most explicit and unequivocal.
But the claimants, not relying exclusively on the
plea of necessity, contend, that the capture being piratical, and by a vessel having no commission, they
ought not to be injured by any acts of the prize master
which may be deemed infractions of the laws of the
United States.
It would, indeed, be unreasonable and unjust, to
visit upon the innocent owners of this property, the
sins of a pirate ; and were this allegation made out,
the Court would find no difficulty in r4aking the
restitution which is asked for. But is it so; was the
General Arismendi a piratical cruizer ? The Court
thinks not. Among the exhibits is a copy of a commission, which is all that, in such a case, can be expected, which appears to have been issued under the
authority of the republic of Venezuela. This republic is composed of the inhabitants of a portion of
the dominionsof Spain in South America, who have

Segunda.

359
1820.
The Josefa

segunda.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

been for sometime past, and still are, maintaining a
contest for independence with the mother country.
Although not acknowledged by our government as
an independent nation, it is well known that open war
exists between them and his Catholic Majesty, in
which the United States maintain strict neutrality.
In this state of things, this Court cannot but respect
the belligerent rights of both parties ; and does not
treat as pirates, the cruizers of either, so long as they
act under, and within the scope of their respective
commissions. This capture, then, having been made
under a regular commission of the government of
Venezuela, the captors acquired thereby a title to
the vessel and cargo, which could only be devested
by recapture, or by the sentence of a Prize Court of
the country under whose commission the capture
was made. The Courts of neutral nations have no
right to interfere, except in cases which do not embrace the present capture. The captors, therefore,
at the time of the violation of our laws, must be regarded as the lawful owners of the property, and as
capable of working a forfeiture of it, by any infraction on their part of the municipal regulations of the
United States. The property, in the present case,
not only belonged, at the time, to the captors, in virtue of the capture which they had made, but it is
evident from the testimony and admissions in this
cause, that it was owned at the time of capture by
an enemy, and that a condemnation in a Prize Court
of Venezuela was inevitable.
As little foundation is there for. resting a claim to
restitution on the ransom, which it is alleged took

OF THE UNITED STATES.

359

place, of this vessel and cargo. This ransom, whether real or pretended, whether absolute or contingent, (about which, doubts may well be'entertained,)
cannot affect the rights of the United States.

The

forfeiture having attached before any ransom took
place, could not be devested by any act between
parties, conusant as these were, not only of the
fact that a seizure had taken place for a violation of
law, but that legal proceedings had been instituted,
and were then carrying on, to obtain a sentence of
condemnation founded on such violation.
Decree affirmed, with costs.

(LoCAL LAW.)

BLAKm

et al. v.

DOHERTY

et al.

It is essential to the validity of a grant, that the thing granted should
be so described as to'be capable of being distinguished from other.
things of the same kind. But it is not necessary that the grant itself should contain such a description, as without the aid of extrinsic testimony to ascertain precisely what is conveyed.
NKatural objects called for in a grant may be proved by testimony, not
found in the grant, but consistent with it.

The following description, in a patent, of the land granted, is not void
for uncertainty, but may be made certain by extrinsic testimony:
"A tract of land in our middle district on the west fork of Cane
Greek, the waters ofElk river, beginningat a hiccory, running north
1000 poles to a white oak, then east 800 poles to a stake, then south
1000 poles to a stake, thence west 800 poles to the beginning, as
per plat hereunto annexed doth appear."

1820.
BMake

V.
Doherty.

