185

.OF THE UNITED STATES.
A vessel loses her national character by assuming a piratical character; and a piracy ctmmitted by a foreigner, from on board such a
vessel, upon any other vessel whatever, is punishable under the 8th
section of the act o4 the 30th of April, 1190, c. 36.
character
On an indictment for piracy, the jury may find the national
of a vessel upon such evidence as will satisfy their minds, without the
certificate of registry, or other documentary evidence, being produced, and without proof of their having been seen on board.
On an indictment for pitacy, the national character of a merchant vessel of the United States may be proved without evidence of her certificate of registry.
Each count io an indictment is a substantive charge; and if the finling of the jury conform to any one of the counts, which, in itself,
will support the verdict, it is sufficibnt,. and judgment may be given
thereon.

THESE were several indictments in the Circuit
Court of Georgia and South Carolina. The following are the- cases as stated for the decision of this
Court:
rhe

UNITED STATES.V. JOHN FURLONG,

alias

11OBSON.
THE prisoner was indicted before the Circuit

Court of Georgia, for the piratical murder'of Thomas
Sunley, on the act of Couigress of the 30th April,
1790, c. 36. Verdict, guilty. The offence was
committed on a vessel and crew, all English. The
person murdered was an English subject. The piratical vessel was a vessel 6f the United States, and
rum away with by the captain and crew. The prisoner is an Irishman, and a subject of the king of
Great Britain. It was moved, by the prisoner's
counsel, that the judgment be arrested on the following grounds, viz.:
VoL. V.

e4

1820.
U. States
v.
Firates.

CASEb IN TIIE SUPREME COURT

1st. Because the indictment does not charge tit
S
U. States
Statesprisoner as a citizen of the United States.
V.
2d. Because the indictment doeq not charge the
act, as committed on board of an American
vessel,
but charges it as committed on board of a foreign
vessel, or vessel of owners unknown.
3d. Because the 8th section of the act of 30th
April, 1790, c. 36. is virtually repealed by the act
of 3d March, 1819, c. 76. to protect the commerce of
the United States, and punish the crime of piracy.
Upon which grounds, the judges being divided in
opinion, at the request of the counsel for the prisoner, it was ordered, that the indictment and proecedings thereon, together with the grounds of the
defendant's motion in arrest of judgment, be transcribed by the clerk of the Circuit Court, and cerified by him, under the seal of the court, and sent to
this Court, for their decision.

The UNITED STATES v. JoH FURLONG, alias
HoBsoN.
THIs was another indictment against the same
prisoner, before the same Court, on the act of Congress, of the 30th of April, 1790, c. 36. for the piratical murder of David May. Verdict, guilty. The
same statement appears in the record, as in the case
of the indictment of Furlong, for the murder of Thomas Sunley.

