OF THE UNITED STATES.

for any offence committed by him against vessels of
the.United States.
2d. Whether it is competent for a jury to find, that
a vessel within a marine league of the shore, at anchor in an open roadstead, where vessels only ride
under shelter of the land at a season when the course
of the winds is invariable, is upon the high seas.
3d. Whether the words, out of 'the jurisdiction of
any particular State, in the 8th section of the act of
Congress, of the 30th of April, 1790,c. 36. entitled, an
act for the punishment of certain crimes against the
United States, must he construed to mean, out.of the
jurisdiction of any particular State of the United
States.
4th. Whether the said 8th section of the said act
is virtually repealed by the 5th section of the act of
Congress, of March 3d, 1819, c. 76.
5th. Whether the said 6th section of the said act
of March 3d, 1819, c. 76. furnishes any, and what
definition of the crime of piracy.
The

UNITED STATES

v.

DAVJD BOWERS

and HENRY

MATHEWS.

THE prisoners were indicted before the Circuit
Court of Georgia, under the act of 30th of April,
1790, c. 36. for a piratical vobbery committed on an
American ship. Verdict, guilty. The prisoners
were part of the crew of the Louisa privateer, who
rose upon their officers in October, 1818, and putting
them out of the ship, proceeded on a piratical cruize.
The Louisa was commissioned by the republic of

1820.
U. States

v.

GASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

Buenos Ayres, and commanded by Captain Almcida.
U. States There is no proof of her being American owned.
The prisoners are American citizens, and the piracy
V.1820.

Piratcs.

for which they are convicted, was committed on the
ship Asia, bearing the American flag. The captain
asserted himself and vessel to be American; and on
her stern was painted " N e w -Y o r k . " The ship Asia,
at the time of the robbery, was at anchor in an open
roadstead, at the Island of Bonavista. The registet
of the ship Asia was not produced in evidence. Verdict, guilty.
The prisoner's counsel moved that the; judgment be
arrested on the following grounds, viz.
1st. That it is not competent to prove the national
character of an American vessel, without evidence
of her register.
2d. It is not competent for the jury to find that
the piracy was committed on the high seas, when
the evidence ascertained the Asia, at the time she
was boarded, to have been at anchor in an open roadstead, at the island of Bonavista.
3d. That the prisoners are not punishable under
the 8th section of the act of 30th of April, 1790, c. 36.
entitled, "1An act for the punishment of certain crimes
against the United States ;" the same having been
virtually repealed by the act of 1819, c. 76. to protect
the commerce of the United States, and to punish the
crime of piracy.
4th. That there are two counts in the indictment,
the first charging the offence to have been committed
on the high seas, out of the jurisdiction of any particular State; the second, charging the offence t,

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1820.
have been committed in a certain haven, near the
island of Bonavista, out of the jurisdiction of any U. States
r.
particular State, and that it is not competent for a Pirates.
jury to find a general verdict of guilty on both
counts.
Upon which grounds, the Judges being divided in
opinion, it was ordered, that the indictment and proceedings thereon, together with the grounds of the
motion in arrest of judgment, be transcribed Uy the
cldrk of the Circuit Court, and certified by him, under the seal of the Court, and sent to this Court for
their decision.

The

UNITED STATES V. DAVID BOWERS

and

HENRY MATHEWS.

TrI prisoners were indicted before the Circuit

Court of Georgia, under the act of the 30th of April,
1790, c. 36. for a piratical robbery committed on a
ship, the property of British subjects, and called the
Sir Thomas Hardy, upon the high seas. The prisoners were citizens of the United States, and part
of the crew of the Louisa privateer, mentioned in
the preceding case. The prisoners were found guilty,
and their counsel moved that the judgment be arrested upon the following grounds, viz.:
1st. That the act of the 30th of April, 1790, c. 36.
eighth section, does not extend to piracy committed
by the crew q a foreign vessel on a vessel exclusively owned by persons not citizens of the United
States.
2d. That the eighth section of the act of the 30th

