CASES IN THE SUPREIE COURT
1820.
U. States
V.

Pirates.

(Co~STITUTIONAL

The

LAW, and LAW OF NATIONS.)

UNITED STATES V. FURLONG,

The

UNITED STATES v.

The

UNITED

STATES V.

alias HOBSON.

The

SAME.

'110

SAME.

The UNITED STATES V. The SAME.

The

UNITED STATES V. GRIFFEN
UNITED STATES V. BOWERS

The

and

BRAILSFORD.

and MATHEWS.
THE UNITED STATES V. The SAME.

The 8th section of the act of the 30th of April, 1790, c. 36. for the
punishment of certain crimes against the United States, is not
repealed by the act of the 3d March, 1319, c. 76. to protect the
commerce of the United States, and punish the crime of piracy.
In an indictment for a piratical murder, (under the act of the 30th
of April, 1790,) c. 36. s. 8. it is not necessary that it should
allege the prisoner to be a citizen of the United States, nor that the
crime was committed on board a vessel belonging to citizens of the
United States; but it is sufficient to charge it as committed from on
board such a vessel, by a mariner sailing on board such a vessel.
A citizen of the United States, fitting out a vessel in a port of the
United States, in order to cruise against a power in amity with the
United States, is not protected, by a commission from a belligerent,
from punishment for any offence committed against vessels of the
United States.
It is competent, in an indictment for piracy, for the jury to find, that a
vessel within a marine league of the shore, at anchor, in an open
road stead, where vessels only ride under shelter of the land at a
season when the course of the winds is invariable, is upon the highI
seas.

The words " out of the jurisdiction of any particular State," in the act
of the 30th April, 1790, c. 36. s. 8. must be construed to mean out
of the jurisdiction of any particular State of the Union.
The act of the 3d of March, 1819, c. 76. s. 5. furnishes a sufficient
definition of piracy; and it is defined to be robbery on the seas.

185

.OF THE UNITED STATES.
A vessel loses her national character by assuming a piratical character; and a piracy ctmmitted by a foreigner, from on board such a
vessel, upon any other vessel whatever, is punishable under the 8th
section of the act o4 the 30th of April, 1190, c. 36.
character
On an indictment for piracy, the jury may find the national
of a vessel upon such evidence as will satisfy their minds, without the
certificate of registry, or other documentary evidence, being produced, and without proof of their having been seen on board.
On an indictment for pitacy, the national character of a merchant vessel of the United States may be proved without evidence of her certificate of registry.
Each count io an indictment is a substantive charge; and if the finling of the jury conform to any one of the counts, which, in itself,
will support the verdict, it is sufficibnt,. and judgment may be given
thereon.

THESE were several indictments in the Circuit
Court of Georgia and South Carolina. The following are the- cases as stated for the decision of this
Court:
rhe

UNITED STATES.V. JOHN FURLONG,

alias

11OBSON.
THE prisoner was indicted before the Circuit

Court of Georgia, for the piratical murder'of Thomas
Sunley, on the act of Couigress of the 30th April,
1790, c. 36. Verdict, guilty. The offence was
committed on a vessel and crew, all English. The
person murdered was an English subject. The piratical vessel was a vessel 6f the United States, and
rum away with by the captain and crew. The prisoner is an Irishman, and a subject of the king of
Great Britain. It was moved, by the prisoner's
counsel, that the judgment be arrested on the following grounds, viz.:
VoL. V.

e4

1820.
U. States
v.
Firates.

