OPINION OF INDIVIDUAL JUSTICE
IN CHAMBERS
BLODGETT, SUPERINTENDENT, WASHINGTON
STATE PENITENTIARY v. CAMPBELL
ON APPLICATION TO VACATE ORDER
No. A-851.

Decided May 14, 1993

An application to vacate an order by the Ninth Circuit en banc, remanding
this case to the District Court for an evidentiary hearing on whether
hanging is cruel and unusual punishment, is dismissed without prejudice. Although the progress in this case has been glacial, see In re
Blodgett, 502 U. S. 236, it would exceed a Circuit Justice's authoritywhich is limited to providing or vacating stays and other temporary
relief where necessary or appropriate in aid of this Court's jurisdictionto vacate an en banc court's remand order, thereby barring the case's
return to district court and prohibiting the taking of more evidence.

Justice.
I have before me an application requesting that I vacate a
remand order issued by an en banc panel of the United
States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. This is not
the first time that applicant James Blodgett, who is Superintendent of the Washington State Penitentiary, has sought relief here with respect to Charles Campbell's second petition
for a writ of habeas corpus. Last Term applicant sought a
writ of mandamus to compel the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit to issue a decision in Campbell's
appeal from a District Court decision denying the petition.
In re Blodgett, 502 U. S. 236 (1992). Campbell's appeal,
which had been argued and submitted on June 27, 1989, still
had not been resolved in January 1992, a delay of well over
two years. Id., at 237. Although we declined to issue a
writ of mandamus-applicant had failed to seek appropriate
relief from the Court of Appeals before seeking extraordiJUSTICE O'CONNOR, Circuit

1301

1302

BLODGETT v. CAMPBELL

Opinion in Chambers

nary relief here, id., at 240-we expressed concern about the
delay and noted that applicant was free to seek mandamus
relief again if the panel did not handle the case expeditiously.
Id., at 240-241. In fact, we cautioned that "[in view of the
delay that has already occurred any further postponements
or extensions of time will be subject to a most rigorous scrutiny in this Court if [applicant] files a further and meritorious
petition for relief." Ibid. Approximately three months
later, the Ninth Circuit panel issued an opinion in applicant's favor.
That, however, did not end the matter. If applicant's account is correct, the Ninth Circuit since then has extended
the time for filing a petition for rehearing in Campbell's case,
granted rehearing en banc, and denied applicant's motion for
expedited review. After vacating submission of the case so
it could receive and review supplemental briefs, the Ninth
Circuit en banc panel issued an order remanding the case
to the District Court for an evidentiary hearing on whether
hanging is cruel and unusual punishment under the Eighth
Amendment. The court, however, did not indicate that the
hearings the District Court already had held were inadequate. Nor did it conclude that the District Court would
have erred had it denied Campbell a hearing altogether. Instead, the en banc court stated that, because it had "chosen
to address whether hanging is cruel and unusual punishment," it would be helpful to have "the benefit of an evidentiary hearing, with findings and conclusions by the district
court." Campbell v. Blodgett, No. 89-35210 (Apr. 28, 1993),
p. 1. Applicant moved for reconsideration of that order, and
the en banc court denied the motion. Judges O'Scannlain
and Kleinfeld dissented:
"Over a year ago, the Supreme Court reminded us
that the State of Washington has sustained 'severe prejudice' by the stay of execution in this case, which is now
over four years old. In re Blodgett, [502 U. S. 236
(1992)]. While the further delay to be caused by this

Cite as: 508 U. S. 1301 (1993)

1303

Opinion in Chambers

remand order may not be egregious, it is symptomatic
of this court's handling of this case.... Absent any indication by this court that the district court erred-by
holding that Campbell was [wrongfully] denied a hearing
on this issue altogether or that the hearing given was
somehow inadequate as a matter of law-I can see no
basis to remand for a new evidentiary hearing." Campbell v. Blodgett, No. 89-35210 (May 7, 1993), pp. 2-3.
Frustrated with the slow rate of progress and the additional delay occasioned by the en banc court's April 28 remand order, Blodgett has submitted an application that asks
me to vacate that order. Although I am concerned about
the glacial progress in this case, I have grave doubts about
my authority to offer such relief by way of application.
After all, most applications seek temporary relief, such as a
stay of judgment, vacation of a stay, or a temporary injunction, and only where necessary or appropriate in aid of this
Court's jurisdiction. See, e. g., Drummond v. Acree, 409
U. S. 1228 (1972) (Powell, J., in chambers) (application for
stay); O'Brien v. Skinner, 409 U. S. 1240 (1972) (Marshall, J.,
in chambers) (application for stay); see also Coleman v. Paccar Inc., 424 U. S. 1301 (1976) (REHNQUIST, J., in chambers)
(application to vacate lower court stay); American Trucking
Assns., Inc. v. Gray, 483 U. S. 1306 (1987) (BLACKMUN, J., in
chambers) (application for injunction requiring that funds be
escrowed pending outcome of case). Applicant, however,
does not seek interim relief. Nor has he filed with this
Court a petition for either a writ of certiorari or an extraordinary writ. Rather, he requests that I act alone to vacate
the remand order of the en banc court, thereby barring the
case's return to district court and prohibiting the taking of
more evidence. I have not located a single published order
in which a Circuit Justice has vacated or reversed a court of
appeals' order, other than an order providing interim relief;
indeed, it appears that such an action would exceed my authority, which is limited to providing or vacating stays and

1304

BLODGETT v. CAMPBELL
Opinion in Chambers

other temporary relief where necessary or appropriate in aid
of this Court's jurisdiction. See Kimble v. Swackhamer, 439
U. S. 1385 (1978) (REHNQUIST, J., in chambers) ("It scarcely
requires reference to authority to conclude that a single Circuit Justice has no authority to 'summarily reverse' a judgment of the highest court of a State; a single Justice has
authority only to grant interim relief in order to preserve
the jurisdiction of the full Court to consider an applicant's
claim on the merits"). Because I do not believe I have the
authority to vacate the Court of Appeals' remand order unilaterally in my capacity as Circuit Justice, the application is
dismissed without prejudice.

