RYAN

v.

BINDLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

article is a wrong which he is not permitted to take advantage
of, and besides, there is no hardship in the case, for if he
desired to remove any particular article, the covenant permits it on replacing goods of equal value.
The removal of the goods took place on the 18th of May,
1857, some year and five months before the expiration of the
lease, so that practically the reservation of the rent in advance,
on the event in the lease happening, works but simple justice
to all parties. It became the substitute for the rent reserved
payable monthly. If the tenant had brought about the event
by the removal of the goods within a year of the termination
of the lease, whether or not he might have had a remedy to
abate the excess, we need not discuss.
JUDGMENT REVERSED,

and cause remanded for a venire de

novo.

RYAN v. BINDLEY.
1. Where a declaration claims a sum not sufficiently large to warrant error
to this court, but where the plea pleads a set-offof a sum so considerable
that the excess between the sum claimed and that pleaded as a set-off
would do so,-the amount in controversy is not the sum claimed but the
sum in excess, in those circuits where by the law of the State adopted
in the Circuit Court, judgment may be given for the excess as aforesaid.
For example: A declaration in assumpsit claimed one thousand dollars damages,-a sum insufficient to give the Supreme Court jurisdiction: more
than two thousand being required for that purpose. The plea pleaded a
set-off offour thousand, and by the laws of Ohio, adopted in the Federal
courts sitting in that State, judgment might be given for the three thousand in excess, if the set-off was proved. Held, that three thousand,
and not one thousand, was the amount in dispute; and accordingly, that
the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court attached.
2. The rules of evidence prescribed by the laws of a State being rules of
decision for the Federal courts while sitting within the limits of such
State, they must be obeyed even though they violate the ancient laws
of evidence so far as to make the parties to the action witnesses in their
own cause; herein adopting a practice in opposition to a specific rule by
the Federal court for the circuit.

THE Judiciary Act provides * that final judgments and decrees in civil actions and suits in equity in:a CircuitCourt, when
* a 2a

Dec. 1863.]

Ry± . v. BnwmLEY.
Opinion of the court.

the matter in dispute exceeds the sum or value of two thousand
dollars, exclusive of costs, may be re-examined and reversed
or approved in the Supreme Court. With this law in force,
Bindley had sued Ryan in assumpsit in the Circuit Court for
the Southern District of Ohio, and laid his damages at one
thousand dollars. Ryan, however, put in a plea, insisting
that Ryan owed him four thousand dollars, which sum he
claimed a right to set off against Bindley's demand, and to
have judgment against Bindley for the excess: a sort of
defence and judgment allowed by the laws of Ohio and the
practice of the Circuit Court of the United States for its districts, which herein by rule of court had adopted the practice
of the State tribunals. The verdict found $575.85 for the
plaintif.
In the course of the trial the defendant offered himself as a
witness; not being competent of course by the general laws
of evidence which prevail in the Federal courts, and indeed
being, by rule of the Circuit Court where the case was
tried, made, as a party, specifically incompetent, but claiming to be competent by virtue of the Ohio code of civil pro.
cedure; one section of which* declares that "No person
shill be disqualified as a witness in any civil action or proceeding by reason of his interest in the event of the same,
as a party or otherwise."
The Circuit Court, holding to its own rule, rejected the
witness; and on error here two questions were raised.
1. Did the sum involved exceed $2000 in such a sense as
that the Supreme Court had jurisdiction?
2. Was the defendant in this suit rightly rejected as a
witness?
.Messrs.Lee and Fisherfor the plaintiff in error.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court:
1. The allegation in the declaration must be taken, generally, as fixing the amount or value for the purposes of
jurisdiction. But the subsequent pleadings may so change
the original character of the suit as to involve an amount or
* 1 810.

68

RYAN v. BINDLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

value in excess of two thousand dollars, and when this is
done, the judgments and decrees of the court below are
subject to be reviewed here.
In this case Ryan interposed a notice of set-off, and insisted
that Bindley owed him four thousand dollars, for goods sold
and money lent, which he claimed the right to set off against
Bindley's demand, and to recover against Bindley ajudgment
for the excess. By the laws of Ohio such a defence is permitted, and if the defendant succeeds in proving his set-off,
and it is larger than the plaintiff's claim, he is entitled to a
judgment for the excess. The parties are concluded by the
judgment, and cannot again litigate the same subject-matter,
unless the judgment should be reversed, on appeal or writ
of error to the Supreme Court. This law of set-off, or counter claim, and the practice under it, has been adopted as a
rule of court, by the Circuit Court of the United States for
the districts of Ohio. The plea in this case was therefore
proper, and after it was interposed the matter in dispute
rightfully exceeded the sum of two thousand dollars, exclusive of costs, and as the plaintiff had judgment, it is plain
that the defendant had the right to sue out his writ of error.
2. A reversal of the judgment is claimed, because the Circuit Court refused to permit the defendant to testify as a witness. In Ohio a party to the suit is a competent witness on
his own behalf. The rules of evidence prescribed by the
laws of a State are rules of decision for the United States
courts, while sitting within the limits of such State, under
the 34th section of the Judiciary Act.* The court having
rejected the witness, when he was competent, the judgment
below must be reversed, and a venire de novo awarded.
JUDGMENT ACCORDINGLY.
* Vance v. Campbell, 1 Black, 480; Wright v. Bales, 2 Id., N&

