Dec. 1863.]

COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF.

43

Opinion of tbh court.

If an issue in fact had been joined on the fifth plea, and found
for the defendants, judgment was inevitable for them, because
the plea was in bar of the action, and the other pleas would
then have presented immaterial issues. If the plea was true,
being a complete defence, it would have been useless to have
tried other issues, for no matter how they might terminate,
judgment must still be for the defendants. The state of
pleading leaves the fifth plea, precisely as if traverse had been
taken on a matter of fact in it, and determined against the
plaintiff. "On demurrer to any of the pleadings which go
to the action, the judgment for either party is the same as it
would have been on an issue in fact, joined upon the same
pleading and found in favor of the same party." (Gould's
Rleading, ch. ix, § 42.) "And when the defendants' plea goes
to bar the action,- if the plaintiff demur to it and the demurrer is determined in favor of the plea, judgment of nil
capiat should be entered, notwithstanding there may be also
one or more issues in fact; because, upon the whole, it appears that the plaintiff had no cause of action." (2Ydd's -Pra.
tice, 4th American Edition, 741-2.)
There is no error in the record.
JUDGMENT ATFIRMED WITH COSTS.

COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF.
1. Parties excepting to a report of a commissioner in admiralty proceedings, should state, with reasonable precision, the grounds of their exceptions, with the mention of such other particulars as will enable the court
to ascertain, without unreasonable examination of the record, what the
basis of the exception is. Ex. Gr. If the exception be that the commissioner received "improper and immaterial evidence," the exception
should show what the evidence was. If, that "he had no evidence to
justify his report," it should set forth what evidence he did have. If,
that "he admitted the evidence of witnesses who were not competent,"
it should give their names, and specify why they were incompetent,
what they swore to, and why their evidence ought to have been rejected.
2. This same necessity for specification it is declared-though the case was
not decided on that ground, the point not having been raised on argument-exists in a high degree in regard to an answer put in to an admi-

C0MMANDER-INoCHIEF°

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
ralty claim, which answer ought to be full, explicit, and distinct: and
hence a defence to a libel for collision, which sets forth that the injured
yessel "lay in an improper manner, and in an improper place," without showing in any respect wherein the manner, or why the place was
improper, is insufficient, it seems, as being too indefinite.
8. Objections to want of proper parties being matter which should be taken
in the court below, a party cannot, in an admiralty proceeding by the
owners of a vessel, to recover damages for a cargo lost on their ship by
collision, object here, for the first time, that the owners of the vessel
were not the owners of the cargo, and therefore that they cannot sustain
the libel. Independently of this, as vessels engaged in transporting
merchandise from port to port are "carriers"-if not exactly "common
carriers"-and as carriers are liable for its proper custody, transport
and delivery, so that nothing but the excepted perils of the sea, the act
of God, or public enemies, can discharge them-it would seem that they
might sustain the action within the principle of the 'o!pellcr Commerce
(1 Black, 582).
APPEAL from a decree of the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Southern District of New York in a cause of
collision, the case being thus:
La Tourette & Butler, appellees in the case, were owners
of the schooner William Clark, and fled their libel in the
District Court of the United States for that district, alleging,
among other things, that on the 26th of January, 1860, the
schooner of the claimants, called the Commander-in-chief,
while their schooner lay safely at anchor to the north and east
of Little Egg Harbor, and about a half a mile from the New
Jersey shore, came down, under full sail, and ran into her,
cutting her through, abreast of the main chains. The allegation was, that the William Clark sank within fifteen minutes after the collision, and the claim was for a total loss
both of the vessel and the cargo. The collision occurred about
ten o'clock .in the evening. The libellants alleged that it
was a clear, moonlight night; that their schooner was properly anchored, and had a competent watch on deck, and a
bright light set in the rigging, and that the collision occurred
in consequence of the negligence, mismanagement and unseamanlike conduct of those in charge of the vessel of the
respondents, and without any fault on the part of those in
charge of their own vessel.

Dec. 1863.]

COMMANDEP.-IN- CHIEF.
Statement of the case.

The answer of the claimants, in general terms, denied the
material matters alleged in the libel. A separate denial of
each article was interposed, and the substance of the defence
was, that the collision, if it occurred at the time and place
alleged in the libel, was occasioned through the fault of the
officers and crew of the vessel of the libellants; the respondents alleging, in the general terms quoted, that the vessel of
the libellants " lay in an improper manner and in an improper
place, without a light or other necessary precautions, and
that the collision, so far as their vessel was concerned, was
unavoidable."
Testimony was taken by both parties. It showed that the
schooner of the libellants,.bound from Indian River, in Delaware, to- the city of New York, anchored a mile or two to
the northward of Little Egg Harbor light (a place where vessels
frequently sail), in consequence of the severity of the cold, and
because it was blowing so heavily that those in charge of her
did not deem it safe to proceed on the voyage. It was proved,
however, that the anchorage was not an improper one, and
that a number of vessels were anchored still further in the
general track, towards the south. The master of the Commander-in-chief swore it was a moonlight night-very cold.
"There was a vapor on the water. Anything above the
vapor you could see a good way; but a vessel's hull you
could not see beyond a short distance. You could see a light
half a mile." He then proceeded to state some facts from
which the conclusion was inferrible that there was no light:
but the proofs of the other side were full that there was a light,
and that it was suspended in the rigging of the injured vessel,
some twelve feet above the deck; and moreover, that the
mate was on deck as a lookout.
After a fall hearing, an interlocutory decree was entered
in favor of the libellants and the cause referred to a commissioner to ascertain and compute the amount due to the libellants for the actual damages to the vessel and cargo occasioned
by the collision. The commissioner having made and returned his report, by which he gave a specific sum as the
value of the vessel, and an additional specific sum as-the value

COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF.

[Slip. Ct.

Argument for the libellants.

of the cargo, the respondents filed nine exceptions to the report,
as follows:
1. "That the commissioner allowed improper and immaterial evidence to be put in by libellant;" the exception,
however, not stating what the evidence was.
2. "That he had no evidence to justify his report;" the
exception not setting forth what evidence he did have.
3. "That he reported more than the evidence warranted;"
the exception stating nothing further.
4. That he had "failed to report the principle of the
decree."
5. That he "admitted evidence of witnesses as to the value
of the vessel on the part of the libellant, who were not competent as to that fact, and whose evidence should have been
rejected;" no names of witnesses being given, nor any specification of the reasons why they were incompetent; nor what
they swore to; nor why their evidence should have been
rejected.
6. That he "reported the value of the cargo as part of the
damage," when the libellant is not entitled to recover therefor.
7. That the evidence showed the vessel to be of far less
value than the report made it.
8. That the loss of the vessel was not the necessary or
actual results of the injury to the vessel.
9. That the loss is shown to have been incurred by the
fault of the libellant or his agents.
The court, after full argument, overruled these exceptions,
including the sixth, and entered a final decree in favor of the
libellants for the amounts reported. Appeal was then taken
by the respondents to the Circuit Court, where the parties
were again fully heard, and the decree of the District Court
affirmed; whereupon the respondents appealed to this court,
and now sought to reverse the last-named decree.
AHr.-faskettforthe libellants: The answer is in some respects
too indefinite. It does not specify as it ought to have done
wherein the ship was lying improperly at anchor, if she was
lying so at all. The exceptions, also, to the commissioner's

Dec. 1863.]

(.OMMANDER-IN-CHIEP.
8.

Argument for the respondents.

report are for the most part far too indefinite. Certainly
this is true as respects the first, second, third, fourth, and fifth
exceptions. Theywould impose upon the judges of this court
the labor of hunting in the most minute way, throughout the
record, to see wherein the alleged error of the commissioner
consisted; leavingthem in the end to guess at it only. This
is irregular. The sixth exception is without foundation in
law. The evidence shows that the collision was through the
fault of the respondents alone. If this is so, the libellants
are entitled to damages for her cargo. The collision was the
cause of the loss, and the owners of the vessel as common
carriers are liable to the owners of the cargo. The Propeller
Commerce, decided lately,* in this court, is in point.
M r.Gillet, contra: The injured vessel was anchored, of a
very cold night, in a great thoroughfare of navigation. Her
light, if any light was on her, was in the rigging. There was
a mist on the water, and the light was obscured. The case
is one of misfortune at worst; for which the respondents are
not liable.
The answer and first five exceptions are in sufficient form.
The court has the whole record, in a printed shape, before
them. Learned in law, and instructed by the evidence in
the facts, they can readily see wherein the point of each
exception lies.
The sixth exception is well founded. The libellants are not
entitled to recover for the value of the cargo. They have
neither averred or proved that it belonged to them, nor that
they were carriers. The inference is fair that it was taken
as freight for third persons. They do not even show that the
claim for the loss of the cargo was assigned to them, nor that
they became the insurers of it; nor that under the circumstances claimed by libellants in this case, they would be liable
over to the shipper. It does not appear whether the libellants or shippers insured, or not; or if insured, whether they
have abandoned to the underwriters, so that the claim, if
valid, belongs to the latter. It is no answer to say that the
* 1 Black, 574.

COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF.

[Slip. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

libellants are liable to the shippers for it. This may, or may
not be so, and depends more upon what is not, than what is
to be found in the record. The libellants have no right to
impose upon the claimants the chances of double payment
for the same thing. They had it in their power to have
placed this matter upon proper footing by filing the libel in
behalf of themselves and for the benefit of the shippers, or in
some other way made the shippers parties, so that a recovery
would have enured to their advantage and concluded them,
and would have left the proceeds, when collected, in the
registry, for them. It is clear, if the libellants could not do
this, and thus bind the shippers, they cannot bind them when
not named or referred to in the libel; and if they could not
thus bind them, they cannot recover for the value of the
shippers' property. The case of the Propeller Commerce,
cited on the other side, does not determine this question.
That was'a case of common carriers, and this is not. Whether
the owners of the cargo were protected by the form of the
proceedings, or concurred therein, is not stated. Ordinary
shipments, like the present, are upon special agreement, and
the freighter is not a common carrier. But even in case of
common carriers, the owner of property retains his ownership and right to control and to sue for injury to it.*
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court:
1. Persons appearing as claimants, or for the purpose of
making defence in causes civil and. maritime, are required,
under all circumstances, to an-swer on oath or solemn affirmation, and the authorities are unanimous that the answer
should be full, explicit, and distinct, to each separate article
and allegation of the libel.t Claimants merely allege, in
this case, that the vessel of the libellants lay in an improper
manner, and in an improper place; but the answer does not
set forth, or in any form point out, in what manner she lay,
or in what respect the manner was improper, nor is there
* New Jersey S. N. Co. v. Merchants' Bank, 6 Howard, 380, 381.

t

8 Greenleaf on Evidence, 398, 435.

Dec. 1863.]

CoMMbAN DER-IN- CHIEF.

Opinion of the court.

any definite description of the place where she lay, or any
reasons assigned why it was an improper anchorage. Explanations in that behalf are entirely wanting; nor is it
possible to determine from the allegations of the answer
whether the respondents intended to set up that the place
selected as an anchorage was an usual one, and that those in
charge of their vessel were thereby misled, or whether that
part of the answer was intended as an averment that she
lay too near to or too far distant from the shore, and more
or less in the pathway of navigation than was customary or
necessary. Such indefinite allegations are hardly sufficient
to constitute a valid defence; but as no exception was entered
to the answer in the District Court, and inasmuch as this
point was not made here in argument, perhaps it is but right
that the decision of the case should turn upon the merits of
the controversy.
2. Evidence shows that the schooner of the libellants wrs
bound on a voyage from Indian River, in the State of Delaware, to the port of New York; that she anchored a mile or
two to the northward of Little Egg Harbor light, in consequence of the severity of the cold, and because it was blowing so heavily that those in charge of her did not deem it
safe to attempt to proceed on the voyage. Proofs also show
that the anchorage was a proper one, and that a number of
vessels were anchored still farther to the south. She had a
good light suspended in the rigging, and the mate was on
deck as a lookout. Suggestion is made that there was some
mist or vapor on the water; but if it were conceded that the
testimony establishes that fact, still it could not benefit the
respondents as a defence, because the proofs are full to the
point that it was a clear, moonlight night, and that the light
suspended in the rigging of the schooner was some twelve
feet above the deck of the vessel. Witnesses for the respondents, or some of them, testify that they did not see the
light until just before the collision omurred, and the inference is attempted to be drawn from ilhat fact, that the light
was in an improper place; but the %eight of the evidence
satisfies the court that it might easily have been seeni if there
VOL. L

4

COMMANDER-INa-CHIEF.

[S up. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

had been proper vigilance on the part of those in charge of
the respondents' vessel. Both the courts below held that
the respondents were in fault, and we entirely concur in that
opinion.
3. None of the exceptions to tho report of the commissioner are entitled to any consideration exce]t the sixth.
Firstexception was, that the commissioner allowed improper
and immaterial evidence to be introduced by the libellants;
but the exception is not accompanied by any report of the
evidence objected to, and of course there is no means of
determining whether it was proper or improper. Second exception was, that the commissioner had no evidence to justify
his finding, which, without a report of the facts, is quite too
indefinite to be available for any purpose, and the same
remark applies to the thirdandfourth exceptions, which need
not be reproduced. Fifth exception was to the effect that
witnesses were admitted to testify as to the value of the
vessel who were not competent, and whose evidence should
have been rejected; but the names of the witnesses are not
given, nor is it stated why they were incompetent, nor what
their testimony was, nor on what ground it is claimed that
the testimony should have been rejected. Suffice it to say,
that in the judgment of this court these several exceptions
are without merit, and were properly overruled. Sixth exception is to the effect that the commissioner improperly
reported the value of the cargo as part of the damage, when,
in point of fact, the libellants were not entitled to recover
therefor. Report of commissioner shows that he estimated
the actual damage to the cargo as well as the actual damage
to the vessel, and the decree states that the report, as made,
was confirmed by the court. Taken together, therefore,
the report and decree affirm the principle that the libellants,
under the circumstances of this case, were entitled to recover
both for the damage to the vessel and cargo. Appellants
insist that the action of the court in confirming the report
was erroneous, and that the decree on that account should
be reversed. Common carriers, however, it is conceded, are
liable for the safe custody, due transport, and right delivery

Dec. 1863.]

COMM ANDER-IN- CHIEp.

Opinion of the court.

of goods and merchandise intrusted to them to be conveyed
from one port or place to another; and where the owners of
the ship or vessel damaged by a collision sustain that relation
to the cargo, it is admitted that they may recover for its loss
or injury in the suit for the collision, if the libel is properly
framed and the proofs sustain the charge. Admission to
that effect could hardly have been withheld, as it was so
decided by this court in the recent case of the Pr'opeller
Commerce,* to which reference was very properly made. But
it is contended that the decision in that case was placed exclusively upon the ground that the lake boat Isabella was a
common carrier in the strict technical sense, and the argunient is th'at the schooner of the libellants was not such a
carrier, and, therefore, that the rule adopted in that case
cannot be applied in the case under consideration. Whether
all ships and vessels employed in transporting goods or merchandise from port to port are, strictly speaking, common
carriers or not, it is not necessary to determine in this case.
Suffice it to say, that they are carriers, and as such are liable
for the safe custody, due transport, and right delivery of the
goods or merchandise which they receive and undertake to
transport, and nothing can discharge them from the obligation of the undertaking, as specified in the bill of lading, but
the excepted perils, or the act of God, or the public enemy.
Liability, therefore, of the schooner of the libellants as a
carrier, was precisely the same as that of the lake boat Isabella, in the case referred to, so that the rule adopted in that
case is fully applicable to the case at bar.t Undoubtedly, all
persons interested in a cause of collision may be joined in the
libel for the prosecution of their own claims and the protection of their own interests. Owners of the vessel and the shippers of the cargo, for example, and all other persons affected
by the injury, may be made parties to the suit, or it may be
prosecuted by the master as the agent of all concerned.
Where it appears that the party or parties named as libel(ants are competent to prosecute the suit, the nonjoinder of
* 1 Black, 582.

t The Niagara v. Cordes, 21 Howard, 26; Clark v. Barnwell, 12 Id., 272.

COMMANDER-T'N-CHIEF.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

others having an interest in the controversy must be shown
by exception, and, if not made to appear in the court below,
cannot be made available as an original objection in the appellate tribunal. Objections to parties, or for the want of proper
parties, should be made in the court below, where amendments may be granted in the discretion of the court. Parties
improperly joined may, on motion, be stricken out, and new
parties may be added by a supplemental libel or petition.*
Service of regular process is a warning to all parties who
have any interest in the cause to come in and protect their
interest; and unless they do so, if due notice was given,
they are bound by the decree.t Amendments are readily
granted in the Admiralty Court, as carrying out the maxim
that all the world are parties to the proceeding; and if due
notice be given, and any one interested fails to appear,
he cannot thereafter have any ground of complaint. Collision suits are frequently prosecuted by tlhe owners of the
injured vessel for damages to the cargo as well as to the
vessel, and it does not appear that any serious embarrassment
has grown out of the practice. Manifestly, where the prosecution is instituted by one or more parties for themselves
and others not named, it would be more regular that it should
be so averred in the libel; but as there can be only one prosecution for the same collision, it is not perceived that the
omission of that averment can operate to the prejudice of
the claimant.t Persons appearing as claimants may object
to the want of proper parties, and it may be that, if the
exception is seasonably and properly taken, the proceeding cannot be sustained. On that point, however, we express no decided opinion, but leave the question to be
determined when it shall arise. Suit in this case was commenced by the owners of the vessel, and no exception was
taken to the nonjoinder of the shippers of the cargo, either
in the pleadings or in any stage of the proceedings, prior to
the appeal. Under these circumstances, we are all of the
* Dunlap, Practice, 87.

f Benedict, Admiralty, J 364, p. 203; The Mary, 9 Cranch, 144.
$ The Kalamazoo, 9 English Law and Equity Reports, 567.

Dec. 1863.]

HUTCHI.NS V. KI]NG.
Opinion of the court.

opinion that the objection must be overruled.*. No inconvenience will result from this rule to the claimants of the
other vessel, and there will still be sufficient power in the
eourt to afford protection to the rights of the shipper of
the cargo, provided proper measures are taken by him to
assert his rights. before the controversy is completely
ended. Where the suit is commenced by the owners of
the injured vessel, it is undoubtedly competent for the
owners of the cargo to petition to intervene for the protection of their interests at any time before the fund is actually
distributed and paid out of the registry of the court. Our
conclusion is, that the suit was well brought, and that it was
well and properly prosecuted in the name of the libellants.
Case does not show that the libellants are not the owners of
the cargo; but if not, the real owners thereof may still intervene.

The decree of the Circuit Court is therefore affirmed with
costs.

DECREE ACCORDINGLY.

HUTCHINS ET AL. V. K1NG.
I. Growing timber constitutes a portion of the realty, and is embraced by a
mortgage of the land. When it is severed from the freehold without
the consent of the mortgagee, his right to hold it as a portion of his
security is not impaired.
2. When the amount due according to the stipulation of the mortgage is
paid, the lien of the mortgage upon the timber thus severed is discharged, and the property reverts to the mortgagor, or any vendee of
the mortgagor. Any sale of the timber by the mortgagee, or assignee
of the mortgage, after such payment, is a conversion for whizlh an
action will lie by the mortgagor or his vendee.
8. By the law of New Hampshire, the interest of a mortgagee is treated as
real estate only so far as it may be necessary for his protection, and to
The Steamboat Narragansett, Olcott Adm. R., 255; The Iron Duke,
9 Jurist, 476; The Monticello v. Mollison, 17 Howard, 155; Fretz et al. V.
Bull et al., 12 Id., 466; Sedgwick on Damages, 3d ed., 469; Mer. Shipp.
by Maclachlan, 280; Hay v. Le L eve, 2 Shaw's Appeal Cases, 395; The
Pete.-field, MS. Cs. temp. Marriott.

