UNITED STATES r. JOuNSOix.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

do so, the two petitions are to be considered as parts of the
same transaction, and both as constituting one continuous
application, within the meaning of the law.
The question of the continuity of the application should
have been submitted to the jury. In directing them to return a verdict for the defendant, we think the learned judge
who tried the case in the court below, committed an error.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD dissents.
JUDGMENT REVERSED AND VENIRE DE NOVO AWARDED.

UNITED STATES V.

JOHNSON.

I Objections to Mexican grants ought not to be taken as if the case was
pending on a writ of error, with a bill of exceptions to the admission of
every item of testimony offered and received below.
2. When there is any just suspicion of fraud or forgery, the defence should
be made below, and the evidence to support the charge should appear
on the record.
. The want of approval of a grant by the Departmental Assembly does
not affect its validity.

fr-om the District Court of the United States for
the Southern District of California, the case being thus:
Johnson and others, the respondents, claimed title under
the Mexican government, through one Chavest a tract of
land called Pleyto, lying in the present county of Monterey,
State of California, and containing about three leagues;
which land he had petitioned for on the 2d of June, 1845.
The deed to Chaves purported to be made on the 18th July,
1845, by Pio Pico, one of the Mexican governors of Cali.
fornia; and it recited that "the necessary steps and investigations were previously taken and made in conformity with
the requirements of laws and regulations." On the 8th May,
1846, the "1expediente"* was laid before the Departmental
APPEAL

* This term expedienk is a term of the Mexican land law, and of course
hot familiar to the reader of law reports in general, though it ha now
become so to those of the reports of this court.
,"When complete, an expediente usually consists of the petition

Dec. 1863.]

UNITED STATES V. J

NSON.

327

Statement of the case.

Assembly, and was ordered to be referred to the Committee
on Vacant Lands. The land asked for by Chaves having been
once occupied by a community of priests, of the mission of
St. Antonio, and being said to have a house upon it which
they had built, the committee recommended that "the expediente be remitted to the authorities of that jurisdiction
to be reported on, and to the person in charge of San Antonio, in order that he may say in what condition that house
was at the time the grant was made, so that it might be
valued, and that community be indemnified, to avoid questions relative to the expediente, to the end that, after these
proceedings are concluded, the respective approval may be
given." The Departmental Assembly, thus referring it, was
soon afterwards dissolved, and nothing further done. The
original grant made it a condition that Chaves should occupy
the land, which there was evidence, though not wholly uncontradicted, that he did.
In some of the deeds through which the respondents
claimed, the parties signing the deeds did not, apparently,
sign them by the exact names with which, in the instruments, they were described. One deed, for example, purported to be made by Tomas Soberannes, and was signed
Thoimws G.. Soberannes. Another purported, in the body of
it, to be made by Tomas Guadaloup Soberannes; but said
that the land was devised to the said Toms Guadaloup
Sanchez, under the -name of Guadaloup Soberannes. It was
signed T. Guadaloup Sanchez, and acknowledged T. Guadalupe Sobrannes; and so in other instances. Some of the witnesses to papers making part of the title were persons whose
names had been before this court in former cases, and had
the diseffo annexed; a marginal decree approving the petition, the order of
reference to the proper officer for information; the report of that officer in
conformity to the order; the decree of concession, and the copy, or a duplicate of the grant. These several papers,-that is, the petition with the
diselo annexed, the order of reference, the inform6, the decree of concession,
and the copy of the grant, appended together, in the order mentioned,constitute a complete expediente within the meaning of the Mexican law.- .Untted States r. KnigIt's Admr., 1 Black, 245.

UNITED STATES V. JOHNSON.

[Sup. CL

Opinion of the court.

been spoken of, in judicial opinions reported, as not worthy
of confidence.
With these documents and this evidence, Johnson and the
other claimants having presented their petition to the Board
of Commissioners established by the act of March 3d, 1851,
"to ascertain and settle private land claims in the State of
California," and that board having confirmed it, the United
States took the case by appeal into the District Court,
which court having also confirmed it, the case came here,
as already mentioned; the question being whether the petition for confirmation of the claim was rightly granted and
affirmed.
The title of Chaves was found among the archives. The
deed of Governor Pico was authenticated below by proof
of his handwriting, and that of his secretary, who witnessed it.
Mr. Wills, for the United States, contended that this deed
was not properly proved by proof of the handwriting of the
officers attesting it; that the signatures might be genuine,
but the dates might be prior to the true ones; that the governor himself and his secretary should have been called;
that the parties signing other deeds were not the parties described in them. He referred to decisions in this court and
to local land history in Mexico, to show doubtful 6haracter
in some of the witnesses in the case, and in a general way
to infer fraud in some parts of the transaction; several of
the objections made not having been taken in the court below, and being first made here.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court:
The title of Chaves is found among the archives. Its au.
thenticity was not disputed before the commissioners or the
District Court; but in this court the objection is first made
that the handwriting of the public officers was proved,
whereas the governor and secretary should have been called
as the proper witnesses to authenticate their own acts.
In taking ob)j(ctions to these Mexican grants, it ought to

Dec. 1863.]

UNITED STATES V. JOHNSO.
Statement of the case.

be remembered that the case is not brought here on a writ 3f
error with a bill of exceptions to the admission of every itEm
of testimony offered and received below. Nor is it a part of
the duty of counsel representing the government to urge
microscopic objections against an honest claimant, and urge
the forfeiture of his property for some oversight of the commissioners, in not requiring proof according to the strict
rules of common law. When there is any just suspicion of
fraud or forgery the defence should be made below, and the
evidence to support the charge should appear on the record.
If testimony of witnesses is alleged to be unworthy of belief,
the record should show some reason to justify the court in
rejecting it. The former opinions of this court may be referred to in questions of law, but cannot be quoted as evidence of the character of living witnesses.
On the 2d of June, 1845, Antonio Ohaves petitioned the
governor for the grant of a place called Peyto, containing
three leagues, a little more or a little less. The record does
not show the usual reference for information. But the grait
by Pio Pico, dated 18th July, 1845, recites that "the necessary steps and investigations were previouly taken and made
in conformity with the requirements of laws and regulations."
On the 8th of May, 1846, "this espediente was laid before
the Departmental Assembly, and was ordered to be referred
to the Committee on Vacant Lands." The committee recommended "that the present espediente be remitted to the authorities of that jurisdiction to be reportbd on, and to the
person in charge of San Antonio, in order that he may say
in what condition the town was at the time the grant was
made, so that it may be valued, and that community be indemnified to avoid questions relative to the espediente, to
the end that after these proceedings are concluded the respective approval may be given." As this Assembly was
soon after finally dissolved, nothing further appears to have
been done. There is evidence that Chaves was in the occupancy of the land granted.
We have frequently decided that the want of approval by
the Departmental Assembly will not affect the validity of the

JONES t

GREEN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

grant. In this c.ase the approval is not denied, but the question suspended.
Although some of the grants purporting to be made by
Pio Pico, in the spring of 1846, shortly before his expulsion,
have been shown to have been executed after that time, there
is no evidence in this case to justify the court in deciding
that this grant is not authentic.
DECREE AFFIRMED

JONES

i).

GREEN ET AL.

A bill in equity will not lie on behalf of judgment creditors to subject real
property of their debtor, held by a third party upon a secret trust for
him, to the satisfaction of their judgment, until a fruitless attempt has

been made for its collection by execution at law.
APPEAL from the Supreme Court of the Territory of Nebraska, the case being thus:
In February, 1859, C. and J. Green and C. and L Gill filed a
bill in Chancery in the District Court of the Territory just
mentioned, against one Jones and a certain Brown. It set
forth that in March, 1858, the said Greens had obtained judgment in the District Court of the First Judicial District of
Nebraska, against Brown, for $1155, and that in October of
the same year, the other two complainants, G. and C. Gill,
had obtained judgment against him in the same court for $450.
It charged, that on the 15th of July, 1857, Brown was engaged in mercantile pursuits in the city of Omaha; that he
was on that day utterly insolvent, and being about to suspend business and the payment of his debts, purchased certain real estate in the city just named; and in order to place
it beyond the reach of his creditors, procured a conveyance
to be made to the othef defendant, Jones, who it was alleged
now held the property upon a secret trust for him. The bill
set forth also that executions had been issued and returxed
unsatisfied, and prayed that the premises might be sold and
the proceeds applied to the payment of the judgments. The

