Dec. 1863.]

VAN HOSTRuP V. MADISON CITY.

291

Statement of the case.

VAN HOSTRUP V. MADISON CrY.
1. An authority to a city to take stock in any chartered company for making "a road br roads io said city," authorizes taking stock in a road
between other cities or towns, from the nearest of which to the city subscribing there is a direct road; the road in which the stock is taken
being in fact a road in extension and prolongation of one leading into

the city.
2. *Where authority is given to a city to take stock in a road, provid d the
act be "on-the petition of two-thirds of the citizens," this provisc will
be presumed to have been complied with where the bonds show, on their
face, that they were issued in virtue of an ordinance of council of the
city making the subscription; the bonds being in the hands of bondfid
holders for value. In the case before the court the minutes of council
recorded that the citizens, ", with great unanimity," had petitioned.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of Indiana.
The suit was brought in the court below against the city of
Madison, in Indiana, for moneys due upon coupons attached
to certain bonds issued by the city authorities, signed by the
mayor and the city clerk, and to which was affixed the seal
of the corporation, by which the city acknowledged, that in
virtue of an ordinance of the Common Council, passed 2d
September, 1852, it owed and-promised to pay the president
of the Columbus and Shelby Railroad Company, or bearer,
$1000, redeemable on the 1st of November, in the year 1872,
with interest at the rate of six per cent. per annum, semiannually, on the first days of May and November of each
year, from the date of the bonds, at the banking house of
Vinslow, Lanier & Co., in the city of New York.
These bonds were negotiated and put into circulation by
the Columbus and Shelby Railroad Company, and purchased
in the market by the plaintiffs, bonO jide, and for a valuable
consideration. They had been issued to the railroad company for stock subscribed in that company by the city of
Madison, aforesaid.
As respected the authority of the city to subscribe, it ap
peared that one section of its charter * authorized it "to take.
viii, subdivision 38.

VAN HoSTRUP V. MADISON CITY.

[Sup. t

Statement of the case.

stock in any chartered company for making a road or roads
to said city, provided, that no stock shall oe subscribed, &c.,
unless it be on the petition of two-thirds of the citizens who are
freeholders, &c., and provided, that in all cases where stock
is taken, the Common Council shall have power to borrow
money," &c.
At the time when the subscription to the Columbus and
Shelby road was made and the bonds issued, a railroad called
the Madison and Indianapolis Railroad, a road leading from
Indianapolis,in the interior of the State,
to Madison, was in operation, and
NDIANAPOUS
brought down from one part of the interior where Indianapolis is, to MadisHowviLLE son, on the Ohio River, the products of
the State. This road passed through
Columbus. The Columbus and Shelby
COLUMBUS

Company (the company to which the

subscription was made), was organized to construct a road from Columbus
to Shelby County, terminating at Shelbyville. But Columbus was forty-six
miles from Madison; Shelbyville being
MADMON
about twenty-three north of it. Through
Columbus, and by means of the connection with the Madison and Indianapolis road, the Columbus and Shelby road
did lead to Madison and nowhere else; though if regarded
as an independent and isolated road, and as one between
Shelby and Columbus only, it could not be said to be a road to
the city designated. The diagram will elucidate the matter.
As respected the required "petition of two-thirds of the
citizens," the matter rested apparently upon an entry on the
minutes of the City Council, which stated that "the freeholders -of the city of Madison, with great unanimity, had petitioned," &c.
The defences set up by the city, were "that the bonds
were issued to the Columbus and Shelby Railroad Company,
to pay for a subscription by the city to the capital stock of
the zaid railroad company, and for no other consideration;

Dec. 1868.]

VAN

0losTauP

'.

MADISON CITY.

293

Argument for the City.

that the said Columbus and Shelby Railroad Company was
not a chartered company for the purpose of making a road
to the city of Madison aforesaid, but to make a road from
Columbus to Shelbyville, the nearest terminus of said road
being forty-six miles distant from Madison."
2. That the bonds were issued without the petition or me"morial of two-thirds of the freeholders of said city requesting the Common Council to take the stock and issue the
bonds.
The court below gave judgment in the case, which was
upon the pleadings wholly, for the city. On error here, the
validity of the defences-as in the court below-were the
points in issue.
Mr. Johnson,for the city of MTadison: If these bonds were
issued, as alleged, to the Columbus and Shelby Railroad Company,-a company not chartered to make a road to Madison,
.but to other points,-they were void in the hands of said
railroad company when delivered to it.* They appear on
their face to be issued to such company, and every person must take notice of the charter of that company, and
must know that it is a chartered company to make a road
to Madison, because such charter is a part of the law of the
land, and because it is the very thing that is required to
exist to enable the city of Madison to act. Parties dealing
with a corporation must know that the facts exist upon which
its power to act is founded. The city of Madison, without
special authority from the legislature, has no power to subscribe for stock in railroad companies. It cannot compcl
the citizens to become parties or stockholders in private corporations, nor pledge or incumber the individual property of
the citizens in speculative undertakings. Its powers are
only coextensive with its duties. The Common Council
may borrow money for the special purposes of the trust and
authority intrusted to them, and may levy taxes to raise
money for these purposes, but none other.t
* Commonwealth v. Brie, &c., Railroad, 27 Pennsylvania State, 339.
f Beatty v. Knowler, 4 Peters, 153; Sharp v. Speir, 4 Hil N. Y., 87;

VAN HOSTRUP v. MADISON CITY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the creditor.

If the city of Madison may subscribe to a road whose nearest terminus is forty-six miles away from it, because another
road leads from that terminus to the city, it may subscribe
not only to a road in parts of Indiana the most distant from
Madison, but to roads in the most distant parts of the United
States. It may build a road between any towns in California, provided only, that any other road or series or concatenation of roads exists by which a traveller can get from
either terminus of that California road by rail, to Madison.
It is easy to see how capable of abuse is such a power.
There is no sufficient evidence of a "two-thirds" petition.
The expression, "great unanimity," is loose. It is impossible
to say, in reference to the population of a city, what it means.
Whatever it may mean, it is no record of that fact which the
act authorizing the subscription declares must pre-exist, and
is therefore valueless.
Messrs. Porterand Boelker, contra:
1. In La Fayette v. Cox (5 Indiana, 38), it was held thatthe
city had no power, under any circumstances, to subscribe for
railroad stocks. In City v. West (9 Id., 74), that city had a
power as this one has, "to take stock in any chartered
company for making roads to the city." The Ohio and
Mississippi Railroad Company was chartered to make a road
between Lawrenceburgh and Vimcennes, and to extend east
to Cincinnati, and west to St. Louis. The city of Aurora,
some five miles below Lawrenceburgb, on the Ohio River,
was not mentioned in the charter; but the road was located
through Aurora, and it was held that the city might subscribe
for its stock as a road to the city. The court say, "This case
is entirely different from that of Lafayette v. Cox. There the
charter did not confer the power to take stock, but it was attempted to be inferentially derived. Here the power is expresslyi
granted, and the question is merely whether the road in which
the stock was subscribed is one contemplated by the charter."
The geographical facts within the cognizance of the court,
Graves v. Otis, 2 Hill N. Y., 466; People v. Goodwin, 1 Selden, 56
Fayette v. Cox, 5 Indiana, 38; Rex v. Sutton, 4 31aule & Selwyn, 54(

Dec. 1863.]

VAN HOSTRUP V. MADISON CITY.

295

Opinion of the court.

will not enable it to say, that the judgment of the people of
Madison, in attempting to make the counties with which
this road brought them into direct connection, tributary to
the commercial and manufacturing interests of their city,
was erroneous.
The city would undoubtedly have been authorized to take
stock in a company for building a road from Shelbyville
directly to the city line. But this would have secured her
no greater commercial advantages, and would have involved
a useless outlay of capital, since two-thirds of such a road
must have run alongside the Madison and Indianapolis Railroad, already in operation. May not the city use the economical discretion that a natural person might? Must she
pay three dollars instead of one, that the road to which she
subscribes may fall within the literal description of the roads
to which her privilege extends ? Hills of solid rock surround the city of Madison. Did the legislature contemplate
that the city should aid in making no roads except such as
unnecessarily cut through them ?
2. The City Council was the proper judge whether or not
the required number of resident freeholders had petitioned
for a subscription to the stock of the company to which the
bonds were issued.* Conceding that the entry was not in
the precise language of the -proviso, we nevertheless submit,
that the plain implication is, that a greater proportion than
two-thirds had petitioned. The entry is, that "the freeholders of the city of Madison, with great unanimity, had petitioned," &c.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court:
One point of objection to the bonds is that the Columbus
and Shelby Railroad does not, by the terms of its charter or
in fact, terminate at the city of Madison; and hence, that
the road is not within the description of one in which the
city was authorized to take stock.
* Bissell v. The City of Jeffersonville, 24 Howard, 287; Commissioners
of Knox Co. v. Aspinwall et al., 21 Id., 539; The Evansville, &c, Railroad
Co. v.. The City of Evansville, 15 Indiana, 895

VAN H_0STRUP V. MADISON CITY.

[Sup. CL.

Opinion of the court.

The words are, "to take stock in any chartered company
for making a road or roads to the said city." It is supposed
that the authority to subscribe is tied down to a chartered
road, the line of which comes within the limits of the city;
and that the words are to be taken in the most literal and
restrictive sense. :But this, we think, would be not only a
very narrow and- strained construction of the terms of the
clause, but would defeat the manifest object and purpose
of it.
The power was sought and granted, with the obvious idea
of enabling the city to promote its commercial and business
interests, by affording a ready and convenient access to it
from different parts of the interior of the State, and thus to
compete with other cities on the Ohio River and in the interior which were or might be in the enjoyment of railroad
facilities. This object and purpose, we think, should be
kept constantly in view in giving a construction to the clause
in the charter. For while it will operate to prevent a narrow and fruitless interpretation, it will have the effect of
guarding against any abuse or unreasonable extension of the
power.
We think it quite clear, a subscription to a road wholly
unconnected with roads leading to the city, would not be
within its fair meaning and intent, but are equally satisfied
that a subscription to a road in extension and prolongation
of one leading into the city is within it.
It will be admitted if a railroad had been chartered, originally, from the city of Madison to Shelbyville, by the way of
Columbus, a subscription to the stock would have come
within the very words of the charter, and what difference, in
good sense or principle, or with reference to the object and
purpose of the clause, is there between that case and the one
before us? The object of the subscription in the first was
to extend the facilities of railroad communication through
the interior between the two towns, the termini of the road.
In the second, as a road had already been made to Columbus,
and in operation, the intercommunication is accomplished
by a sabscription to a line from Columbus to Shelby. The

Dec. 1863.]

VA, HOSTRUP V. MADISON CITY.

297

Opinion of the court.

difference between the two cases is simply a dispute upon
words.
The terms of the clause do not limit the subscription to
one road or to one company, "road or roads in any chartered
company." The argument, therefore, against the power rests
exclusively upon the effect to be given to the concluding
words, "to said city;'' We have already -considered and
given our construction of them.
It was strongly argued, that upon this construction great
abuses may be committed by the city corporation in subscriptions of stock to remote companies, in which it would
have but little, if any, interest or advantage. In the construction of the grant of powers, extreme cases -may be suggested against it, which it is difficult to answer. But in the
present and kindred cases, something may be trusted to the
'wisdom and integrity, as well as the interest, of the body appointed to execute the power.
•Another objection taken is, that the proviso requiring a
petition of two-thirds of the citizens, who were freeholders
of the city, was not complied with. As we have seen, the
bonds signed by the mayor and clerk of the city recite on
the face of them that they were issued by virtue of an ordinance of the Common Council of the city, passed September
2d, 1852. This e.oncludes the city as to any irregularities
that may have existed in carrying into execution the power
granted to subscribe the stock and issue the bonds, as has
been repeatedly held by this court.
Our conclusion upon the whole case is, that full power existed in the defendants to issue the bonds, and that the plaintiffs are entitled to recover the interest coupons in question.
Even if the case had been doubtful, inasmuch as the city
authorities have given this construction to the charter, and
bonds have been issued and in the hands of bond fide purchasers for value, we should have felt bound to acquiesce
in it.
JUDGMENT REVERSED WITH COSTS, AND CAUSE REMANDED, &C.

