Dec. 1863.]

HUTCHI.NS V. KI]NG.
Opinion of the court.

opinion that the objection must be overruled.*. No inconvenience will result from this rule to the claimants of the
other vessel, and there will still be sufficient power in the
eourt to afford protection to the rights of the shipper of
the cargo, provided proper measures are taken by him to
assert his rights. before the controversy is completely
ended. Where the suit is commenced by the owners of
the injured vessel, it is undoubtedly competent for the
owners of the cargo to petition to intervene for the protection of their interests at any time before the fund is actually
distributed and paid out of the registry of the court. Our
conclusion is, that the suit was well brought, and that it was
well and properly prosecuted in the name of the libellants.
Case does not show that the libellants are not the owners of
the cargo; but if not, the real owners thereof may still intervene.

The decree of the Circuit Court is therefore affirmed with
costs.

DECREE ACCORDINGLY.

HUTCHINS ET AL. V. K1NG.
I. Growing timber constitutes a portion of the realty, and is embraced by a
mortgage of the land. When it is severed from the freehold without
the consent of the mortgagee, his right to hold it as a portion of his
security is not impaired.
2. When the amount due according to the stipulation of the mortgage is
paid, the lien of the mortgage upon the timber thus severed is discharged, and the property reverts to the mortgagor, or any vendee of
the mortgagor. Any sale of the timber by the mortgagee, or assignee
of the mortgage, after such payment, is a conversion for whizlh an
action will lie by the mortgagor or his vendee.
8. By the law of New Hampshire, the interest of a mortgagee is treated as
real estate only so far as it may be necessary for his protection, and to
The Steamboat Narragansett, Olcott Adm. R., 255; The Iron Duke,
9 Jurist, 476; The Monticello v. Mollison, 17 Howard, 155; Fretz et al. V.
Bull et al., 12 Id., 466; Sedgwick on Damages, 3d ed., 469; Mer. Shipp.
by Maclachlan, 280; Hay v. Le L eve, 2 Shaw's Appeal Cases, 395; The
Pete.-field, MS. Cs. temp. Marriott.

HUTCHINS V. KING.

[Sup. Ct,

Statement of the case.
give him the full benefit of his security: he holds the timber growing
on the land as a portion of the security only, and does not become its
absolute owner when it is severed from the land.

THIs was a writ of error to the Circuit Court for New
Hampshire; the case being thus:
In September, 1853, Dunn and his partner having bought
timber land in New Hampshire, of Goodall, mortgaged it
back to him, as security for the payment of the purchasemoney; the purchasers having given their notes for the
money; and the mortgage being intended to secure their
payment. One of the notes was payable September 1st,
1854; another, September 1st, 1855; and a third, September 1st, 1856: all of them with interest from an anterior date,
to wit, from June, 1853. The first note was paid at maturity,
but the second was not paid until five months after maturity;
while neither on it nor on the third note, was any interest
paid until two years after it became due. It was then collected
by process of law.
The mortgage contained a stipulation that the mortgagors
might enter and cut timber to the value of ten hundred dollars, and afterwards as fast as they made the several payments designated in the mortgage, but if they failed to make
any one of the payments designated, they were "to cease
cutting, and to yield possession" until the amount was paid;
"we to cut timber "-was the language of one part of the mortgage-" as fast as we pay the notes, and no faster." During the
time that the mortgagors were thus in default by non-payment of the second note, and of interest on both it and the
third, they entered and cut timber, and in June, 1856, sold it
to one King. In September, 1856, two persons, named
Hutchins and Woods, who had succeeded by assignment to
the 'ights of Goodall, the mortgagee, took possession of the
timber thus cut, sold it, and appropriated to themselves the
proceeds; the sale of the timber by them being after the unpaid
intcrest had been collected and the note had been paid.
In 1859, King, who had purchased from the mortgagors,
brought an action on the case against Hutchins and Woods,
to recover the value of the timber which they had thus taken

Dec.1863.]

HUTCOIN S V. KM.G.
Argument for the mortgagee.

possession of and sold. And among several questions raised
on the trial was this--the only one considered by this courtwhether the assignees of the mortgage, Hutchins and Woods,
were liable to King, the vendee of the mortgagors, for the
value of the timber which they had sold after they had
received the principal and interest due to them.
The court below ruled that they were so; and the correctness of this ruling was the chief point now in issue
here.
The record had no proper bill of exceptions. The bill, so
called, gave the rulings of the court, but did not show that
exceptions to these rulings were taken by either party. No
objection was, however, made to the record on this ground
by counsel on the argument; and the associate justice of this
court who presided at the circuit where the cause was tried,
informed the court that an exception to the ruling on the
material point considered, had been in truth taken, and that
the omission of the bill to state the fact was a clerical error.
2esrs.JHutchins and Carpenter for the plaintff in error:
1. It will be admitted that a mortgagor has no right in
general to cut timber from mortgaged premises; and if he
does so he is liable to the mortgagee in trespass or trover.
If he sells the timber so cut, his vendee is liable to the mortgagee in like manner. The mortgagee's rights in this respect
are not affected by the fact.that there has been no breach of
the condition of the mortgage; for the mortgagee, as against
the mortgagor, is the owner of the land, and indeed if there is
no stipulation, either express or implied, to the contrary, he
is entitled to the possession, and may sue for .and recover it
immediately upon the execution of the mortgage.
2. But this case has special strength. The stipulation
contained in the mortgage gave the mortgagors a right to cut
timber from the premises only as they paid the mortgage
debt "and no faster;" that is to say, until such time as they
might fail to pay an instalment of principal or interest when
due and payable, and no longer. Upon the happening of
that event, i.e., a failure to pay, they were, by the terms of

HUTCHINS V. ]I'NG.

[Sup.M

Opinion of the court.

the deed, to "cease cutting, and yield possession," &c., until
payment of another note.
The conclusion is unavoidable that the mortgagors had no
right to cut timber from the mortgaged premises while in
default either for principal or interest.
Moreover, when the timber was severed it became the personal property of the assignees of the mortgagee, as it was
before their real property. It could no longer pass with the
land, and was no longer covered by the mortgage. By a
recovery of the land in a suit on the mortgage, the assignees
would not have recovered the severed timber, nor could the
mortgagors recover it or gain title to it by redemption of the
mortgage and recovery of the land.
3. The reception by the mortgagees of the money due
on the mortgage debt could not operate as a waiver of any
right which had accrued to them through the default of the
mortgagors. They were bound by law to receive, or suffer
the loss of interest. Their right to collect and receive payment of the debt secured, was independent of their rights to
the timber under the mortgage and had no connection with
them.
AXr. Wells for the defendant in error.
Mr. Justice FIELD delivered the opinion of the court:
The stipulations in the mortgage to Goodall provided, as
we construe them, that the mortgagors should have the right
to enter upon the mortgaged premises and cut timber, at first
to the value of ten hundred dollars, and subsequently as they
made the several payments designated, to the value of the
sums paid; but that in case they failed to make any one of
the payments designated, they were to cease cutting and to
surrender possession until the amount due was paid. The
timber, for the conversion of which the present action is
brought, was cut after the interest on some of the notes
secured had become due, and whilst it remained unpaid, and
the greater portion of it was cut after the principal of one of
the notes had matured and was also unpaid.
In June, 1856, after the note which had matured was paid

Dec. 1863.]

H UTCHINS V. KING.

Opinion of the courL

but whilst a suit for the interest on the other notes was
pending, the mortgagors sold the timber cut to King, the
plaintiff below, the defendant in error in this court The
defendants below, Hutchins and Woods, who had succeeded
by assignment of the notes and delivery of the mortgage, to
the rights of the mortgagee, in September, 1856, took possession of the timber cut, and subsequently disposed of it,
and appropriated the proceeds. In November following, the
interest due on the unpaid notes was collected. It does not
appear from the record at what precise period the defendants
disposed of the timber, but we assume from the argument
of counsel that this was done after their collection of the
interest. In 1859, the present action was brought to recover
the value of the timber alleged to have been thus converted.
The defence rested mainly upon a claim of ownership in
the property by the defendants. The position taken by their
counsel in the-court below, and urged in this court, was substantially this: that between the parties to the mortgage, the
mortgagee was the owner of the land, and as such was clothed
with all the rights and privileges of ownership; that the
license to cut timber contained in the stipulations of the
mortgage ceased upon the first failure to meet one of the
payments designated; and that after default the defendants
Succeeding to the interests of the mortgagee had the absolute
right to all the timber cut from the land, without liability to
account to any one. We do not state the position of the
defendants in the precise language of their counsel, but we
state it substantially.
A mortgage is in form a conveyance, vesting in the mortgagee upon its execution a conditional estate, which becomes
absolute upon breach of the condition. At law it was originally held to carry with it all the right and incidents of
ownership. The right of the mortgagee to be treated as
owner of the mortgaged premises could only be defeated upon
the performance of the conditions annexed by the day designated. Subsequent performance only gave a right to the
mortgagor to resort to a court of equity for relief fiom the
forfeiture arising upon breach of the conditions. Such is

H UTCHINS V). KING.

[Sup. ct.

Opinion of the court.

the law at this day in some of the States of the -Union. But
in a majority of the States the law in this respect has been
greatly modified by considerations drawn from the object
and intention of the parties in executing and receiving instruments of this character. The doctrine established by courts
of equity, looking through the form to the real character of
the transaction, that a mortgage is a mere security for a debt,
and creates only a lien or incumbrance, and that the equity
of redemption is the real and beneficial estate in the land,
and may be sold and conveyed in any of the ordinary modes
of transfer, subject only to the lien of the mortgage, has to a
great extent, "by a gradual and almost insensible progress,"
as Kent observes, been adopted by the courts of law.* To
such a degree has this equitable view prevailed that the interest of the mortgagee is now generally treated by the courts
of law as real estate, only so far as it may be necessary for
the protection of the mortgagee and to give him the full
benefit of his security. Although, in the absence of stipulations as to the possession, he may enter upon the premises,
his interest is widely different from that of owner. He cannot by conveyance transfer any interest in the premises without a transfer of the debt secured; t his interest is not subject
to attachment or seizure on execution; I he cannot remove
the buildings on the premises, nor the fixtures attached; nor
can he subject the premises to any uses but such as may furnish the means for the payment of the debt secured without
impairing the value of the estate.
In few States is the equitable doctrine respecting mortgages more clearly asserted than in lNew Hampshire, where
the mortgage was executed upon which the rights of the parties to the present action arise. Thus, in Southerinv. lendum,ยง
the Supreme Court of that State, in considering the nature of
the interest which a mortgagee possesses, said: "In order to
give him the full benefit of the security, and appropriate remedies for any violation of his rights, he is treated as the owner
* 4 Kent, 160.

: Jackson v.Willard, 4 Id., 41.

t Jackson v. Bronson, 19 Johnson, 325.
J 5 New Hampshire, 429.

Dec. 1863.]

e1UTCHINS

V. KILG.

Opinion of the court.

of the land. But for other purposes the law looks beyond the
mere form of the conveyance to the real nature of his interest,
and treats his estate in theland as a thing widely different from
an estate in fee simple." In that case it was held that the
interest of the mortgagee in the land was a mere chattel, and
passed by a simple delivery of the note secured as an incident
of the debt. And in Lison v. -Daniels,*the same court said:
"The light of the mortgagee to have his interest treated as
real estate extends to and ceases at the point where it ceases to
be necessary to enable him to avail himself of his just rights,
intended to be secured to him by the mortgage." In that
case the demandant in a writ of entry was mortgagor, and
the tenant claimed under the mortgagee through various
mesne conveyances executed after the law day, and it was
held that nothing passed to the tenant, the court observing
that to enable the mortgagee to sell and convey his estate
was not one of the purposes for which his interest is to be
thus treated; that there was no necessity that it should be so
treated, as the sale could be equally well effected by the transfer of the note secured by the mortgage.
With these views of the nature of the interest of the mortgagee, under the law of New Hampshire, the question presented in the case at bar becomes one of easy solution. The
timber growing upon the land mortgaged constituted a portion of the realty. It was embraced in the pledge of the
land as security. As the assignees of the mortgage held the
land, so they held the timber upon it both before and after it
was cut, as a portion of their security. They could not sell
it, any more than they could pass, by their conveyance, the
fee of the land.
The mortgagors had, it is true, no right to cut the timber
after default made in any of the payments designated in the
mortgage. They could do nothing to diminish the value of
the estate. The right to cut the timber rested upon the
license contained in the stipulations of the mortgage. Their
cutting, except in pursuance of such license, might have been
* 1N
lew Hampshire, 274.

HUTCHINS V. KING.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

restrained, upon proper application, by a court of equity.*
The sale by them, after it was cut, did not divest the lien of
the assignees of the mortgage; the purchaser took the timber
subject to their paramount rights. The assignees could follow it and take possession of it, and hold it until the designated amounts due at the time were paid. When these were
paid, their rights over it ceased, and the vendee of the mortgagors became invested with a complete title. The subsequent detention of the timber by the assignees was wrongful,
and the sale of it a conversion, for which they were liable to
the purchaser.
Some other positions were pressed by the plaintiffs in error
upon the attention of the court on the argument, but we do
not notice them; because what is termed in the transcript
"a bill of exceptions," does not show that any exception was
taken to the rulings of the court. The bill simply shows
that certain positions were urged by the paities, and that
ceriain rulings were made. We have, however, considered
the material question argued, because no objection was taken
to the record on the argument, and because the associate justice of this court, who presided at the circuit where the cause
was tried, informs us that an exception was in truth taken,
and that the omission of the bill to state the fact is a mere
clerical error. We do not intend, however, to allow this
case to be drawn into a precedent. To authorize any objection to the admission or exclusion of evidence, or to the
giving or refusal of any instructions to the jury, to be heard
in this court, the record must disclose not merely the fact
that the objection was taken in the court below, but that
the parties excepted at the time to the action of the court
thereon.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.
* Brady v.Waldron, 2 Johnson's Ch., 148.

