Dec. 1863.]

BEAVER V. TAYLOR.
Syllabus.

The court below directly charged the jury, that it was their
duty to find a verdict against the plaintiff, Matilda C. Gray,
which histruction was particularly excepted to, and was
erroneous.
Case No. 169, in which Brignardello and others are plaintiffs in error, is affirmed with costs; and case No. 223, in
which Matilda C. Gray is plaintiff in error, is reversed vith
costs, and remanded, and a venire de novo awarded.
JUDGMENT ACCORDINGLY.

BEAVER V. TAYLOR.
1. Under the first section of the Statute of Limitations of March 2, 1839,
of Illinois, entitled "An act to quiet possessions and confirm titles to
]and,"-which section gives title to persons in "actual possession of
land, or tenements, under claim or color of title made in good faith,
and who for seven successive years continue in such possession, and
during said time pay all taxes,"-the bar begins with the possesion
under such claim and color of title; and the taxes of one year may be
paid in another. But under the second section of the same act, which
section says that, "whenever a person having color of title, made in
good faith, to vacant and "unoccupiedland, shall pay all taxes for seven
successive years," he shall be deemed owner,-the bar begins with tie
firstpayment of taxes after the party has acquired color of title. Hence,
in a trial of ejectment, when the said different sections of this statute
are set up, any instructions, outside of the facts, which do not keep this
distinction between the two sections in view, and by which the jury,
without being satisfied as to the requisite possession under thefirst section, might, under the second section, have found for the party pleading
the statute, upon the ground that the taxes had been paid for seven
-successive years, although the first payment was made less than seven
years before the action was commenced, will be reversed, upon the wellsettled principle that instructions outside the facts of the case, or which
involve abstract propositions that may mislead the jury to the injury
of the party against whom the verdict is given, are fatally erroneous.
I- To prove payment of taxes, the defendant offered in evidence two receipts without dates; and to prove the date offered two 4etters having date ?,"
which letters inclosed the receipts; also to prove the date, and the
agency of the person who had made the payment and written the letters, offered certain entries in the account books of the parties on behalf
of whom the payment was alleged to have been made. These persons

638

BEAVERt.v. TAYLO.

[Sup. Ct,

Statement of the case.

residing away from the land, and the clerk who made the entries being
dead, of which death and of the handwriting proof was also offered:
Held, that fhe evidence was all admissible: the receipts on the plainest
principles of evidence; the letters and entries on principles not so plain,
but still admissible, as falling within the category of verbal facts; neither of them being hearsay, nor declarations made by the party offering them, and tending, both of them, to illustrate and characterize the
principal fact, to wit, the transmission of the receipts, and to put that
fact in its true light, and to give to it its proper effect.
THIS was an action of ejectment, brought in the Circuit
Court for the Southern District of Illinois, by Beaver, the
plaintiff in error, against Taylor et al., to recover premises
described in his declaration. The action was brought on the
17th July, 1854. The date is important. Upon the trial, the
plaintiff having shown title in himself, the defendants relied
upon the first and also upon the second section of the Statute
of Limitations of the State of Illinois of March 2, 1839, as
making a bar.* The two sections were thus:

"First. Every person in the actual possession of land or tenements under claim and color of title made in good faith, and who
shall, for seven successive years, continue in such possession, and
shall also, during said time, pay all taxes legally assessed on such
land or tenements, shall be held and adjudged to be the legal
owner of said land or tenements to the extent and according to
the purport of his or her paper title.
"Second. Whenever a person having color of title made in good
faith, to vacant and unoccupied land, shall pay all taxes legally
assessed thereon for seven successive years, he or she shall be
deemed and adjudged to be the legal owner of said vacant and
unoccupied land, to the extent and according to the purport of
his or her paper title."
The defendants, to show color of title, gave in evidence a
certain deed. The deed itself was admitted to be void, but.
the good faith of the defendants and the sufficiency of the
deed for the purpose for which it was offered were not dis"An act to quiet possessions and confirm titles to land," U.8 and 9 of

the chapter "Conveyances," in the Revised Code of 1845.

Dec. 1863.]

BEAVER v. TAYLOR.
Statement of the case.

puted. The defendants also gave evidence tending to prove
possession for more than seven years before the commencement of the suit.
In making proof of the payment of the taxes the defendants
offered in evidence two receipts, without date, from the collector to one Gilbert, one for the State and county taxes, and
the other for the road tax, of the year 1847. They proved
that the "collector had made a final settlement of the State
and county taxes for the year 1847 with the proper officers;"
and they gave evidence tending to prove that, during the
years 1847 and 1848, Gilbert was the agent of Taylor & Davis
(claimants of the premises under the statute) in respect of
the taxes. The plaintiffs objected to the receipts as evidence,
because it did not appear when the taxes were paid, nor that
Gilbert had any connection with the color of title relied upon
by the defendants. To meet the objection as to the time of
payment, the defendants offered in evidence two letters from
Gilbert to Taylor & Davis; one of the 10th of March, 1848,
inclosing the receipt for the State and county taxes, and the
other of the 4th of May, 1848, inclosing the receipt for.the
road tax. They offered also certain entries in an account book
of Taylor & Davis, relating to the property in question and
other property held by them in the same right. The letter
gave an account in detail of Gilbert's debits and credits as
agent in respect of the taxes, and referred particularly to
the receipts in question. The books contained entries relating to the same subject and showing the recognition of
his agency in the transaction. It appeared that the book
was kept in Philadelphia, where Taylor resided, and that
the clerk who made the entries was dead. Proof was offered
of his death and of his handwriting. The letters and book
were also objected to. The court admitted all the evidence,
and the plaintiff excepted.
The evidence being closed, the counsel of the plaintiff
asked the court for nine different instructions to the jury.
the only ones important to be here mentioned, however,
being three, which were in regard to the defence arising.
under the second sectiin of the Statute of Limitations already

B EAvER v. TAYLcR.

[Sup. ct.

Statement of the case.

mentioned. In regard to such defence the instructions
prayed for were these:
"1. That if the jury believe from the evidence that the land
in controversy was vacant and unoccupied in the year 1847, they
will find for the plaintiff, unless they also believe from the evidence that Taylor & Davis paid the taxes assessed on said lands
ibr the year 1847, before the seventeenth day of July, 1847.
"2. That the second section of the act of 1839 does not begin
to run until the payment of the first of the series of taxes required by that act, and the bar under that section is not com
plete until the end of seven yearsfrom the time of the payment of
the first of said series of taxes.
"3. That to constitute a bar under the second section of said
act of 1839, the payment of taxes must concur during seven
successive years prior to the bringing of suit with the color of
title; and it must also appear to the jury by the evidence that
during such seven years the land was vacant and unoccupied,
that such bar does not begin until the first of such series of taxes is
paid by the person having color of title, and is not complete
until the payment of taxes for seven successive years thereafter
has concurred with such color of title, and that the burden of
proof of such facts as constitute such bar is on defendants."
The court refused to give these instructions, and instructed
the jury as follows:
"Three things must unite to give a party the benefit of this
section :
"1. He must pay all taxes levied on the land for seven successive years.
"2. The land must for the same time be vacant and unoccupied.
"3. He must during the same time have color of title to the
laud acquired in good faith."
The court had previously charged that to bring a party
%%ithinthe first section:
"1. He must have actual possession of the land for seven successive years.
"2. He must pay all taxes levied on the land for the same
seven years.

Dec. 1863.]

BEAVER

v.

TAYjOR.

Opinion of the court.

"This possession and payment must be under claim and color
of title to the land made in good faith."
The plaintiff excepted to the instructions given, including
those in regard to the second section, and to the refusal to
instruct as . rayed. The jury found for the defendants.
On error here the matters complained of were the admission of the evidence excepted to, and the refusal to give the
instructions as asked, and the giving of those that were
made.
Mr. Grimsluaw,for theplaintiffin error;Mr. Trumbull, contra.
Mr. Justice SWAYNITE (stating the facts) delivered the
opinion of the court.
Under the first section of the Statute of Limitations of
the State of Illinois, of the 2d of March, 1839, it was necessary for the defendants to show actual possession of the
premises for seven successive years; the payment of all taxes
for seven successive years; and that the possession was under
"claim and color of title made in good faith." Under this
section, the period of limitation begins with the possession.*
A void deed taken in good faith is a sufficient color of
title.t It is not necessary that each year's taxes should have
been paid within the year. The taxes "for one year may
be paid in another of the seven years."$
Under the second section, the defendant must show the
payment of the taxes for seven successive years; that the
land was "vacant and unoccupied" during that time, and
that he had, during the same time, "color of title made in
good faith." Under this section the bar begins with the
first payment of taxes after the party has acquired color of
title. Payment of taxes without color of title is unavailing.ยง
* Uinchman v. Whetstone, 23 Illinois, 185.

t Id., 187; Goewey v. Urig, 18 Id., 242; .Woodward v. Blanchard, 16 Id.,
424; McClellan v. Kellogg, 17 Id., 501; Wright v. Mattison, 18 Howard, 50
finchman v. Whetsone, 23 Illinois, 187.
H
Stearns v. Gittings, 23 Id., 390.
VOL. 1.

41

BEAVER v. TAYLORt.

[Sup. (Ot.

Opinion of the court.

2. As respects the evidence admitted and excepted to.
In connection with the proof of Gilbert's agency in paying
the taxes, it was clearly proper to allow the receipts to go in
evidence to the jury. His agency could be proved by evidence aliunde. Such testimony was admissible upon the
plainest principles of the law of evidence. The jury were
the judges of its weight.
The letters and account stand upon a different footing,
and their competency is not so free from doubt; but after
the fullest consideration, we are all of opinion that there was
no error in admitting them. It was proper for the agent to
transmit the receipts to his principals. What was said and
done in that connection was a part of the res gestm. The
contents of the accompanying letters relative to the receipts
are within the rule upon that subject. The entries in the
books of Taylor & Davis, after the receipts came to hand
showing their action, were admissible for the same reasons.
Both the letters and entries belong to the same category
with what are called "verbal facts," and neither fall within
the rule which excludes "res inter alios acta,"--hearsay and
declarations made by the party offering them in evidence.
The principal fact was the transmission of the receipts.
The other facts so illustrate and characterize it, as to constitute the whole one transaction, and render the latter necessary to exhibit the former in its true light and give it its
proper effect.
It is, perhaps, not possible to lay down any general rule
as to what is a part of the res geste which will be decisive
of the question in every case in which it may be presented
by the ever-varying phases of human afiairs. The judicial
mind will always be compelled frequently to apply the general principle and deduce the proper conelusion. The circumstances to which we have just adverted furnish the tests by
the light of which the question, whenever it arises, must
receive its solution.*
* Bruce v. Hurly, 1 Starkie, 20; Murray v. Bethune, I Wendell, 196;
Cox v. Gordon, 2 Devereux, 522; Enos v. Tuttle, 3 Connecticut, 250; Allen
v. Duncan, 11 Pickering, 309; B. & W. R. B. Corp. v. Dana, 1 Gray, 83;

Dec. 1863.]

BEAVE@R v. TA on.
Opinion of the court.

3. After the evidence was closed, the plaintiff's counsel
submitted numerous prayers for instructions to the jury.
The learned judge refused to give them, but submitted the
facts with instructions according to his own views. This
was proper, provided the instructions given were correct.*
We find nothing in these instructions which calls for remark,
except what related to the second section of the statute. [BHis
honor here repeated this portion of the instructions, as already given.] In regard to these there is a material difference between the instructions refused and those given.
The former directed the attention of the jury particularly
to the proposition, that, as regards this section, the statute
did not begin to run until the first payment of taxes was
made, and that seven years must have elapsed after that
time to render the bar complete; while the latter overlooked
this point, and made no distinction between the payment of
taxes under this section and the preceding one. The language, he "must pay all taxes levied on the land for seven
successive years," is substantially the same with that used by
the learned judge in regard to the first section. Under that
section, as we have shown, the bar begins with the time of
the possession, and the taxes for the seven years "may be
paid in one year for another." This was an error.
But it is said that the bar was complete under the first
section, and that what was said as to the second section was
needless, and in the nature of an abstract proposition. We
cannot so regard it. The bill of exceptions purports to
contain all the evidence. The action was commenced on
the 17th of July, 1854. To raise a bar under the second
section, the first payment of taxes must have been made as
early as the 17th July, 1847. There is no proof of any payment earlier than that referred to in the first letter of Gilbert.
That letter bears date on the 10th of March, 1848, and shows
Lund v. Tyngsiorough, 9 Cushing, 36; Sessions . Little, 9 New Hampshire, 271; Thordike v. Boston, 1 Metcalf, 242; Mitchell v. Planters' Bank,
8 Humphrey, 216; Robertson v. Smith, 18 Alabama, 220; Clealand v. Huey,

Id., 843.
* Law -v.
Crnss, 1 Black, 533.

RoGERs V. THE MARSHAL.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

the payment to have been made prior to that time. How
much earlier it was made does not appear. It is clear that
so far as this section is concerned the plaintiff was entitled
to recover, and the court should have so instructed the jury.
The defence rested wholly upon the flist section.
Under that section, as before remarked, there must be
possession for seven years prior to the commencement of the
suit. The first payment of taxes may be later than the
beginning of that period. As the jury were instructed,
they may not have been satisfied as to the requisite possession under the first section, and have found for the defendants under the second section, upon the ground that the
taxes had been paid for seven successive years, although
the first payment was made later than seven years before
the action was commenced.
The law, as to instructions outside of the facts of the case,
or involving abstract propositions, is well settled. If they
may have misled the jury to the injury of the party against
whom their verdict is given, the error is fatal.*
The judgment below is reversed, and a
VENIRE DE NOVO AWARDED.

ROGERS V.

THE

MARSHAL

1. The marshal is not responsible on his official bond for the act of his deputy in discharging sureties on a replevin bond, in any case wherA the
attorney of the plaintiff in that suit, though he gave no direct and pmitive instructions to the deputy, has still done that which was calculated
to mislead the deputy, and to induce his erroneous act. And in the
consideration of a question between the deputy and attorney, it is to be

remembered that the former is but a ministerial officer, unacquainted
with the rules which discharge sureties from their obligations, while
the latter, in virtue of his profession, is supposed to be familiar with
them.

2. Where an instruction, though not in the best form of words, is sufficiently intelligible, and has been rightly interpreted by the jury, in reference to the evidence, a reversal will not be ordered in the indulgence
of a nice criticism.
* Clarke v. Dutcher, 9 Cowen, 674; Wardell v. Hughes, 3 Wendell, 418

