DECISIONS
I

T

SUPREM1E COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
DECEMBER TERM, 1863.

CRoss v. DE VALLF.
L The well-settled principle, that aliens may take land by deed or devise,
and hold against any one but the sovereign until office found, exists in
Rhode Island as elsewhere; not being affected by that statute which
allows them to hold land "prorided" they previously obtain a license
from the Probate Court.
2. Although equity will, in some cases, interfere to assert and protect future
rights,-as Ex. G-. to protect the estate of a remainder-man from waste
by the tenant for life, or to cut down an estate claimed to be a fee to a
life interest only, where the language, rightly construed, gives but an
interest for life; or will, at the request of trustees asking protection
under a will, and to have a construction of the will and the direction
of the court as to the disposition of the property,-yet it will not decree
in thesi as to the future rights of parties not before the court or in esse.
8. Langdale v. Briggs (89 Eng. Law and Equity Reps. 194), followed and
approved; distinguished, also, from Loillardv. Coster, and Hawley v.
James (5 Paige, 172, 442).
4 A "cross-bill" being an auxiliary bill simply, must be a bill touching
matters in question in the original bill. If its purpose be different
from that of the original bill, it is not a cross-bill even although the
matters presented in it have a connection with the same general subject.
As an original bill it will not attach to the controversy unless it be filed
under such circumstances of citizenship, &c., as give jurisdiction to
original bills; herein differing from a cross-bill, which sometimes may
so attach.

HALsiEY devised real estate in Rhode Island to trustees
there, in trust for the benefit of his natural daughter, Maria
5

CROSS v.

DE

VALLE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

De Valle, a married woman, during her life, for her separate
use; and upon her decease the trustees were directed to convey in fee one-half of the estate to the eldest son of the said
daughter living at her decease, if of age, and one-half part
to her other children living at her decease, and in default of
male issue to her daughters equally. Mrs. De Valle, who
-mas born in 1823, was a native and resident of Buenos
Ayres, and had five children born there. After a certain
time she came to Rhode Island, and had one child born
there.
The trustees were directed not to convey the real estate to
his grandchildren, unless they should, within five years after
being duly informed of his decease, have their permanent
residence in the United States, and adopt and use the name
of Halsey.
In case his daughter should die without issue living, or
with issue who should neglect or refuse to comply with the
conditions, the trustees were directed to pay two legacies out
of the estate, and convey the residue to a certain Cross, the
complainant, if then living, and if he should adopt and use
the name of Halsey; or if said complainant should not then
be living, or if he should refuse to adopt the name of Halsey,
then to a nephew of Cross, upon condition that he should
adopt the name of Halsey.
Cross now filed his bill in the Circuit Court of the United
States for Rhode island against the trustees and the beneficiaries of the trust, setting forth that the trusts in favor of
Mrs. De Valle and her children had failed by reason of her
and their alienage and incapacity to hold real estate in Rhode
Island, and that the trust for the benefit of the complainant
was hastened in enjoyment by such failure; claiming that the
devise over to him took effect upon the probate of the will,
or, that it took effect in favor of the heirs at law, or of the
Statb of Rhode Island as sovereign, and praying that the
estate should be conveyed to him by the trustees, or to the
heirs at law, or to the State.
A cross-bill, or bill purporting to be so, was also filed in
the same court by heirs at law of Halsey against this complain-

Dec. 1863.)

CRoss v.

DE VALLE.

Statement of the case.

ant, Cross, the trustees, and other parties in interest,-the
parties in both bills being the same, but being partially
reversed,-for the purpose of more distinctly asserting and
putting in issue the rights of the heirs at law, as against Mrs.
De Valle, Cross, and those other devisees, and so of having
the limitations on Mrs. De Valle's life-estate declared void,
as tending to a perpetuity: and generally of having the
rights of the heirs at law declared and protected by the court
in its exercise of equitable jurisdiction. The complainants
were citizens either of Massachusetts, or of Wisconsin, or of
Ohio, or of New York. The defendants were all, with one
exception, either citizens of 1?hode Island, or aliens commorant
there. The excepted defendant, Cross, complainant in the
original bill, was a citizen of Louisiana, and not commorant
in Rhode Island.
On the subject of alienage, it is necessary to mention that
no special enactment had been made in Rhode Island, giving
to aliens more ability to hold real estate than they had by the
common law. On the contrary, rather, by a statute in force
at Halsey's death, it had been enacted as follows :*
" Courts of Probate shall have power to grant petitions of
aliens for leave to purchase, hold and dispose of real estate
within their respective towns, provided the alien petitioning
shall, at the time of his petition, be resident within this State,
and shall have made declaration, according to law, of his intention to become a naturalized citizen of the United States."
On demurrer the Circuit Court dismissed the bill, and dismissed also the cross-bill. On appeal here, along with other
questions argued-including the one whether the remainders
were void as tending to perpetuities-were the following, the
only ones considered by the court:
1. Was the equitable life-estate given by the will to Mrs.
De Valle void in consequence of her alienage, so that persons who have interests in remainder have a right to be hastened in the enjoyment of the estate?
* Revised Statutes of R. I., 1857, page 351,

21.

CRoss v. DE

VALLE.

[Sup. Ot

Argument in support of the limitations.

2. If not, did the court err in dismissing the cross-bill, and
refusing to declare the future rights of the parties?
31r. Jenkes in support of the Will:
1. Unless there be something special in the law of Rhode
Island, alienage is no sufficient cause to declare the life-estate,
ipsofacto, void; however voidable the estate may be by the
sovereign power, if such power is brought into action. This
is familiar law. But Rhode Island herself interposes not.
The statute relied on does but give the means by which an
alien can acquire real estate, so that even the commonwealth
has no rights of office found against it.
2. The application to declare future rights is made by what
is called a cross-bill. But the bill is no proper cross-bill. It
brings up new matter not touched on by the original parties.
The bill of Mr. Cross asked nothing about future rights, nor
did it seek to avoid anything as tending to perpetuity. This
so-called cross-bill is, therefore, an original bill; and being so
there was no jurisdiction. Cross was a citizen of Louisiana;
all the defendants, therefore, were not citizens of Rhode
Island, while all the complainants were citizens of States
other than Rhode Island. Each of the complainants, therefore, could not, under the Judiciary Act, sue each of the
defendants.* But supposing that bill rightly brought as
respects fbrm,3. Will this court decree, as asked by the heirs, on future
rights? If it will not, it is unimportant whether the limitations over are void for remoteness or not. The question
proposed was deeply considered so lately as 1856, in an
English case, in the Court of Appeals in Chancery;t a case
which is in point, and which we believe this court will follow. Lord Justice Turner there said, that long as he had
known the court, he had always considered it to be settled
that it did not declare future rights, but would leave them
to be determined when they came into possession. He
* Connelly -v. Taylor, 2 Peters, 5664; Moffat v. Soley, 2 Paine, 103;
Kitchen v. Strawbridge, 4 Washington, 84.
t Langdale v. Briggs, 39 English Law and Equity, 194.

Dee. 1863.]

CROSS v. DE VALL..
Argument against the limitations.

added, that in all cases within his experience, where there
had been tenancies for life with the remainder over, the
course had been to provide for the interests of the tenants
for life, reserving liberty to apply upon their deaths. Various considerations were urged before him in support of the
proposition, which will be pressed by the other side, here,
and among them the convenience and advantage it would be
to parties to have their futifre rights ascertained and declared.
To all arguments of this kind the judge replied, in effect,
that the question was not one of discretion, but deeply
affected the law of the court; that the course and practice in
such cases constituted the law of the court; and added:
"I cannot agree to break through that law upon any nere
ground of convenience. If the law is productive of inconvenience, it is for the legislature to alter it." In Jackson v.
Turney,* the Vice-Chancellor would not entertain a suit for
the purpose of declaring that a person who claims to have a
right which may arise hereafter has no such right.
Miessrs. Curtis and Curry on the other side:
1. The Rhode Island statute shows the only mode by which
an alien can hold land in that State.. He may hold it, "provided"-he gets previous license. It declares, in effect, that
without license from the Courts of Probate no one can hold
it at all. It gives an increased severity to the already hard
rule of the common law, never previously modified in the
least in Rhode Island. On the contrary, as opposite counsel
will admit, before its enactment, aliens were obliged always
to have recourse by petition to the General Assembly for the
privilege of taking or holding, or disposing of real property
in that State. Will this court, by its decision of this cause,
uphold our local immemorial law, or disregard it, and make
another law for us?
2. If the second bill was an original one, the objection to
the jurisdiction would be well taken as respects Cross. But
it is a true cross-bill; a bill by some of the defendants to a
former bill, touching the same matters and still depending,
* 21 English Law and Equity, 13.

Caoss v. DE VALL..

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the limitations.

against the other defendants and the plaintiff to the former
bill, which plaintiff is the party on account of whose citizenship the objection is made that it cannot stand as an original
bill. All the parties to both bills are the same, only that they
are partially reversed. The subject-matter is the same; but
the plaintiffs in the cross-bill assert rights to the property
different from those allowed to them in the original bill,
claiming an affirmative decree upon those rights, which the
forms of pleading might deny to them as defendants to the
former suit. The jurisdiction of the court having once
attached to the controversy and the parties, it is coextensive,
by the settled law of the court, with all the equities of the
cause for every purpose properly arising in its progress, and
especially as regards the original mover.
3. The general preventive power of equity; its capacity
to treat vested estates in remainder as present interests to be
protected; its habit of declaring a scheme of trusts, and so
of deciding whether limitations over tend, or do not tend, to
perpetuities, are all supposed to be shut off from exercise in
a case apparently one for their application, by Langdale v.
Brigs, decided in an English court. We believe that case
to have been wrongly decided even upon English authorities.
It is notoriously not in accordance with Scotch ones. Turner,
L. J., though he said that during the hearing he had been
surprised at the length to which the argument had been
carried in favor of that view which we now take, yet adds:
"But having looked into the cases since the argument, I feel
bound now to say that I have been not less surprised to find
how little authority is to be found upon the subject." He
consoles himself by remarking, that "a u thority, however,
is not wholly wanting;" and makes good his assertion by
citing a book of no more modern and no more full character
than "Equity Cases Abridged." His lordship also declared:
"1I am far from thinking that, to some extent, the legislature
might not usefully interpose and provide some remedy for
the ascertainment of future rights." Certainly, when a case
decided in the face of expressions like these is pressed upon
an American tribunal of supreme authority in limitation of
its powers, we may pause before we adopt it.

Dec. 1863.]

Citoss v. [DE

VALLE.

Argument against the limitations.

Now, in the United States we .have the New York cases
of Lorillardv. Coster, and Hawley v. James.* In the former,

the trustees of Lorillard, who had left property to be divided
among collateral relatives, brought their bill to have the
trusts of the will established, and for guidance by the court.
Among other provisions in the-will was one requiring the
trustees to convert all the residue of the testator's property
into real estate in New York; the income to be paid in
equal parts to such of the nephews and nieces as should
from time to time be living; and two years after the death
of the last of them the property remaining was to be divided among their surviving children and grandchildren 1per
stirpes. The heirs at law, who were parties defendant to the
bill, contended that the limitations, after the death of the
nephews and nieces, were void, and that they were entitled
to the remainder. The complainants contended that this
question was not ripe for settlement, because the life-estates
were pending, and because the proper parties were not yet all
in esse. But the court held that the heirs at law were entitled
to a settlement of the question, giving as a reason that the
trustees could only be authorized to invest the property as
required by the will, so far as the trusts were valid, and if
the ultimate limifations were void, the investment must be
made in such a way as to secure the rights of all parties. It
was said that the trustees must be regarded as representing
the parties not in esse. The other case, Hawley v. James,
gave rise to a similar question, which received a similar
decision.
It is impossible to reconcile these decisions with the views
of Lord Justice Turner. Moreover, the reason given by him
for the rule he lays down is insufficient. The difficulty in
the way of equitable jurisdiction, in such cases, is not that the
court cannot deal with futitre rights. A right in remainder
is not a future right. It is a present right to a future enjoyment It is recognized at Law and in Equity as an estate,
and is protected as such just as an estate in possession.
Even in Langdale v. Briggs, so much relied on, Turner, L. J.,
* 5 Paige, 172, 442.

12

Cross v. DE VALLE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

says that the appellant whose rights he refused to declare,
might bring his bill for a receiver, if the mortgages upon
the estates were not kept down.* Of course the court would
have to begin, in such a case, by deciding that he had an
interest in the estates.
-Davisv. Angel, decided by the Master of the Rolls, and on
appeal by the Lord Chancellor, so lately as 1862,t would indicate that the opinion of Lord Justice Turner is not law in
Westminster Hall. It was a bill by a remainder-man to have
his rights declared. It was held that he could not maintain
the bill, because he had no vested interest, and it was contingent
if he would ever acquire any. And the Lord Chancellor says,
that if the complainant had had any vested interest, however
future and remote it might be, it would have been sufficient.
In the case at bar, the property was devised to trustees, and
if the limitations of the equitable estates are void for remoteness,-as we think they are,--the heirs at law have present
vested interests by way of resulting trusts; and the trustees
are accountable to them now, as the owners of those interests, as entitled to have their rights admitted by the trustees, and all investments so made as to protect those interests,
and so as to enable the trustees to pass over the property to
the heirs at law, on the termination of the life-estate, if that
be valid. It is one of the duties of trustees to admit the
existence of the trust; a duty not dependent on the right of
the cestuis que trust to present possession. A vested interest
in remainder is a subject of sale, and the denial of the trust
throws a cloud upon that title, which the trustee cannot
properly do. These trustees deny the title of the heirs as
cestuis que trust under this will. And for this reason, if there
were no others, equity may entertain this bill
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court:
The bill alleges that the trusts declared in the will are all
void, because of the alienage of Mrs. De Valle and her children, and prays that the trustees may be ordered to convey
* P. 219.

t 8 Jurist N. S. 709, and on appeal, 8 Id. N. S. 1024.

Dec. 1863.]

Cxoss v. DE VAL.LE.
Opinion of the court.

to the complainant as one of these numerous contingent
remainder-men who is not an alien; or that the estate be
conveyed to the heirs at law of the testator. As it is not
alleged that the complainant is one of these heirs, it is not
easy to apprehend on what grounds he claims as an alternative remedy that the court. should decree in favor of those
who claim adversely to himself. Perhaps it was to favor the
attempt to give jurisdiction to the court to declare the future
rights of the parties by converting an original into a cross-bill.
That an alien may take by deed or devise, and hold against
any one but the sovereign until office found, is a familiar
principle of law, which it requires no citation of authorities
to establish. Nor is it affected by the fact that a statute of
Rhode Island will permit aliens to take a license to purchase,
which will protect them even as against the State; nor by
the fact that a chancellor may not entertain a bill by an alien
to enforce a trust, which, if conveyed to him, might immediately escheat to the crown.
Now, as the court rightly decided that Mrs. De Valle took
an equitable life-estate by the will, defeasible only by action
of the sovereign, Cross was in no situation to call upon the
court to declare the fate of these numerous contingent remainders.
1. For if the remainders were void because of remoteness
and tending to a perpetuity, his own remainder fell with the
others.
2. And if declared to be valid, not only the six children
of Mrs. De Valle, who are parties to the suit, but possibly
and before her death there might be six more, not now in
esse, who would be entitled to come in before him.
3. The bill demands no such declarationoffuture rights, nor
does it suggest how it could be done, or any sufficient reason
why the court should pass upon the rights of persons not in
esse.
4. The bill charges no fault to the devisees except alienage,
and before any of the contingencies happen the party entitled
to take may be a citizen .nd capable of taking and holding
the estate. In fact, one of the children of defendant was

CRoss v. DE VALLE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court

born in Rhode Island, and therefore is as capable of taking
as Cross.
The decree of the court was final and complete as to the
case made by the complainant's bill. If the decree had been
against Mrs. De Valle, and she had been held incapable of
taking, then the heirs might well say, that in such a case
the estate should be conveyed to them, and not to Cross, and
have their cross-bill for that purpose. But the decree being
in favor of Mrs. De Valle, and the bill dismissed, the crossbill must have the same fate with the original. A cross-bill
"is a mere auxiliary suit, and a dependency of the original."
"It may be brought by a defendant against the plaintiff in
the same suit, or against other defendants, or against both,
but it must be touching the matters in question in the bill;
as where a discovery is necessary, or as where the original
bill is brought for a specific performance of a contract, which
the defendant at the same time insists ought to be delivered
up and cancelled; or where the matter of defence arises after
the cause is at issue, where in cases at law the defence is by
plea puis darrein continuance." The bill filed by the heirs is
for an entirely different purpose from that of Cross. It called
upon the court to decree on the future rights of their codefendants and others not in esse, and decree the limitations
on the life-estate to be void as tending to a perpetuity. This
would be introducing an entirely new controversy, not at all
necessary to be decided in order to have a final decree on the
case presented by the original bill.
As an original bill the court might properly refuse to consider it. First, on account of the parties, and secondly, on
account of the subject-matter.
The bill is filed in Rhode Island. All the complainants
are citizens of States other than Rhode Island or Louisiana,
while one of the defendants, Cross, is a citizen of the State
last named, and not commorant in Rhode Island. It was
admitted that this objection was conclusive, if the bill was
an original. The second objection is equally conclusive,
whether it be called a cross-bill or an original. A chancellor
will not maintain a bill merely to declare future rights. The

Dec. 1863.]

Cnoss v. DE

VALL.

Opinion of the court.

Scotch tribunals pass on such questions by "declarator," but
the English courts have never assumed such power.* In
Langdale v. Briggs,t Iord Justice Turner remarks: "As
long as I have known this court, now for no inconsiderable
period, I have always considered it to be settled that the
court does not declare future rights, but leaves them to be
determined when' they may come into possession. In all
cases within my experience, where there have been tenancies
for life with remainders over, the course has been to provide
for the interests of the tenants for life, reserving liberty to
apply upon their death."
A remainder-man may have a decree to protect the estate
from waste, and have it so secured by the trustee as to protect his estate in expectancy. The court will interfere under
all needful circumstances to protect his rights, but such cases
do not come within the category of mere declaratory decrees
as to future rights.
There is also a class of cases in which recommendations or
requests in a will to a devisee or legatee have been construed
as cutting down an absolute fee into an estate for life, with
an equitable remainder to the person indicated by the testator in his request. In such cases the court will entertain a
bill during the life of the first taker to have the right of the
claimant in remainder established. Nor do these cases
infringe upon the doctrine we have stated as to mere declaratory decrees concerning future contingent executory estates.
But there is a class of cases which are exceptions to this
rule, and being exceptional, only tend to prove the rule. The
New York cases of Lorillardv. Coster, and .Hawleyv. James,4
cited by the counsel of the heirs at law, are of this character. There the bills were filed by the executors or trustees
for their protection, and that they might have a construction
of the will, and the direction of the court as to the disposition of the property. In such cases, from necessity, and in
order to protect the trustee, the court are compelled to settle
questions as to the validity and effect of contingent limita
Grove v. Bastard, 2 rhillips, 621.
5 Paige, 172, 442.

t

39 English Law and Equity, 214.

16

WRIGHT V. ELLISON.

[Sup. Ct,

. Statement of the case.

tions in a will, even to persons not in esse, in order to make
a final decree and give proper instructions in relation to the
execution of the trusts.* It is this necessity alone which
compels a court to make such cases exceptions to the general
rule. But in the present case no such necessity exists. The
court is not called upon to make a scheme of the trusts, nor
could they anticipate the situation of the parties in the suit,
or those who may be in existence at the death of Mrs. De
Valle. The court has no power to decree in thesi, as to the
future rights of parties not before the court or in esse.
DECREE AFFIRMED WITH COSTS.

WRIGHT V. ELLISON.
1. To constitute an equitable lien on a fund there must be some distinct
appropriation of the fund by the debtor. It is not enough that the
fund may have been created through the efforts and outlays of the
party claiming the lien.
2. A power of attorney drawn up in Spanish South America, and by Portuguese agents, in which throughout there is verbiage and exaggerated
expression, will be held to authorize no more than its primary and
apparent purpose. Hence a power to prosecute a claim in the Brazilian
courts will not he held to give power to prosecute one before a Commissioner of the United States at Washington; notwithstanding that
the first named power is given with great superfluity, generality, and
strength of language.

Iw 1827, the American brig Caspian was illegally captured
by the naval forces of Brazil, and condemned in the prize
courts of that country. There being nothing else to be done
in the circumstances, her master, one Goodrich, instituted
legal proceedings to recover the brig, and gave to Zimmerman, Frazier & Co., an American firm of the country, a
power of attorney with right of substitution, to go on with
matters. The power was essentially in these words:
"I authorize, &c., in my name and representing me, to appear
in and prosecute the cause I am this day prosteuting before the
* See Bowers v. Smith, 10 Paige, 200.

