GREGG V. VON PHUL.

[Sup. (%t

Opinion of the court.

MAfr. Knox, for Seybert, submitted the case by brief.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered, in a few words, the opinion
of the court. He stated the case, quoted the language ol
the Pennsylvania decision as just given, and announced that
"as this court fully concur in the construction of the act
made by the highest tribunal of the State of Pennsylvania,
it was unnecessary to make further remark." That the
judgment of the Circuit Court was therefore to be reversed,
and judgment entered for the plaintiff on the special verdict.
JUDGMENT ACCORDINGLY.

GREGG V. VON PHUL.
1. *Whether a coutract to give a deed with "full covenants of seizure and
warranty," is answered by adeed containing a covenant that the grantor
is "lawfully seized in fee simple, and that he will warrant and defend
the title conveyed against the claim or claims of every person whatsoever,"-there not being a further covenant agains incumbrance, and
that the vendor has a ight to sel--need not be decided in a case where
the vendee, under such circumstances, made no objection to the deed
offered, on the ground of insufficient covenants, but only stated that
he was not prepared to pay the money for which he had agreed to give
notes; handing the deed at the same time, and without any further
remark, back to the vendor's agent who had tendered it to him.
2. Where a vendor agrees to give a deed on a day named, and the vendee
to give his notes for the purchase-money at a fixed term from the day
when the deed was thus meant to be ,given, and the vendor does not
give the deed as agreed, but waits till the term that the notes had to run
expires, and then tenders it-the purchaser being, and having always
been in possession-such purchaser will be presumed, in the absence of
testimony, to have acquiesced in the delay; or, at any rate, if when
the deed is tendered he makes no objection to the delay, stating only
that he is not prepared to pay the money for which he had agreed to
givethe notes, and handing back the deed offered,-he will be considered,
on ejectment brought by the vendor to recover his land, to have waived
objections to the vendor's non-compliance with exact time.
8 While it is true that in an executory contract of purchase of land, the
possession is originally rightful, and it may be that until the party in
possession is called upon to restore possession, he cannot be ejected without demand for the property or notice to quit; it is also true that by a
failure to comply with the terms of sale, the vendee's possession becomes tortious, and a righ of immediate action arises to the vendor.

Dec. 1863.]

GIEGG V. VON PHUL.

275

Statement of the case.
A non-compliance with a request to pay money on the ground that the
party is not prepared to do so, and a return to the vendor, without promise to pay at a future time, and without further remark of any sort,
of a deed offered, is a failure to comply with buch terms. And ejectment lies at once, without demand or notice, even though the vendor
may not himself have been perfectly exact in the discharge of parts,
merely formal, of his duty-such want of formality on his part having
been waived by the vendee-and, though the vendee may have made
valuable improvements on the land.

VON PHUL and Gregg entered into articles of agreement
on the 6th of December, 1856, by which Von Phul agreed
to sell and convey to Gregg certain premises in Peoria, which
Gregg agreed to purchase, paying Von Phul for them $8550
as follows, to wit: $2800 on the 1st of March, 1857 (which
was paid), and the residue in three payments of $1900 each
in twelve, eighteen, and twenty-four months from the same
day. Von Phul covenanted that he would convey the premises by deed in fee simple, " withfull covenants of seizure and
warranty, on or before the first day of March, 1857," and Gregg
agreed to execute his three promissory notes (dated on that
day), each for $1960, payable in twelve, eighteen, and twenty-four months, and secured by a deed of trust on the land
sold and conveyed. On the 4th of May, 1860, one Purple,
acting by the request and as the agent of Von Phul, tendered
a deed to Gregg and demanded, not the notes, but the money
due on the contract of purchase. The deed which was tendered covenanted "that the said Von Phul is lawfully seized
of a fee simple in the premises aforesaid, and that he will warrant and defend the title, &c., hereby conveyed, against the
claim or claims of every person." Gregg looked at the deed
and made no objection to it, but stated that he was not prepared
to pay the money, and handed it back to Purple. Gregg,
who was in possession, had gone into it under the contract
of purchase, and had no other right of possession. Previous
to the tender and demand he had improved the property,
and built houses on it worth from $6000 to $7000. Von
Phul was in Peoria while the improvements were being
wade. His residence, however, was in St. Louis.
On ejectment brc Tght by Von Phul against Gregg, in the

GREGG V. VoNI PHuL.

[Sul). Ct.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

Circuit Court for the Northern District of Illinois, to recovei
possession of the property, the court, upon the above facts,
decided the law to be for the plaintiff, and the defendants
excepted.. The question in this court on error was, whether
the court below had decided rightly.
Mr. Ballance, for Gregg,plaintif in error:
1. To answer its requisitions of a deed "with full covenants of seisin and warranty," the document ought to have
warranted against incumbrances,and that the vendor had a right
to sell. The covenants in this deed would not have been
broken, had it turned out that, by reason of judgments,
mortgages or other incumbrances, the title conveyed by the
deed had wholly failed: nor, if it should turn out that
although he was seized of the premises, yet for any reason,
he could not convey it to the vendee. Suppose, for instance,
an order of a court of law or injunction in chancery had
prohibited him from conveying, it is no answer to say that
he covenants "that he will warrant and defend the title to
said premises against the claim of every person whatsoever."
This covenant is not equivalent to a covenant of a right to
sell, or that the premises were free from incumbrances, because, in this case, although the vendor may have no title,
there is no cause of action until there is an eviction; but in
the other two cases there is a present cause of action, provided it be known that there are incumbrances, or that there
is no power to sell.
2. The covenant was, that the said Von Phul should, "on
or before the first day of March next, make said deed,"
whereas, it was not done until May 4, 1860.
This was
material; Gregg bad paid part of the purchase-money, and
had Von Phul made such a deed on that day, as he had
agreed to make, Gregg could, on that day, have mortgaged
the premises to raise the money, especially as he had expended several thousand dollars in building stores on the
ground. But Gregg had not agreed to pay any money at
this time. He was only bound, in case the deed with proper covenants had been made, "to execute his three promis-

Dec. 1863.]

GItEGG V. VON PHUL.
Argument for the plaintiff in error.

sory notes, dated on said first day of March, 1857," "secured
by a deed of trust on the premises." This he was not bound
to do until the deed was executed. *What, then, was Gregg's
duty when the deed was tendered him (provided it had been
a proper one)? Certainly not to surrender the ground on
which he had paid $2850, and expended $6000 or $7000 in
building houses. This was not pretended nor demanded; yet
the effect of the decision of the court is to take the land and
all the houses from the vendee, and give them to the vendor.
8. A tenant having gone into possession with the consent
of the landlord, must be put in the wrong, by having a notice
served on him to quit, and a refusal or failure on his part to
do so. Here the possession was obtained under a contract
of purchase, $2850 paid, and costly stores built on the premises by the vendee, with the knowledge of the vendor, and
then comes a suit in ejectment, without any formal notice to
quit! Had formal notice been given, perhaps the defendant
would have surrendered. What right had plaintiff to mulct
him with a heavy bill of costs without giving him an opportunity to do so if he liked? That all who have come into
the possession of real estate rightfully, are. entitled to notice
to quit, before they are liable to be sued in ejectment, is well
established. There is no English decision, nor decision of
this court to the contrary. In England, -Doe v. Jackson*is
like the present, except that no payment appears to have
been made, and the court decided a notice to quit indispensable. Right v. Beardt was similar, except that a part of the
purchase-money had been paid. The defendant contended,
"that until demand and refusal of the possession, he was not
a trespasser, as the declaration supposed him to be." In
answer to which it was said that "the defendant had taken
possession under a supposed title, and had not been let in
under any tenancy, and therefore not as a tenant at will."
"The learned judge concurred in thinking that the defendant's possession being lawful, required to be determined
by notice to deliver it up." In the Court of King's Bench,
*1 Barnewell & Cresswell, 448.

t

3 East, "210.

GnRGG v. VON P11L.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

Lord Ellenborough said, "that after the lessor had put the
tenant into possession, he would not, without a demand of
the possession, and a refusal by the defendant, or some
wrongful act by him to determine his lawful possession,
treat the defendant as a wrong-doer and trespasser, as he
assumes to do by his declaration in ejectment."*
In the New York case of Jackson v. .Rowan,t which was
one of purchase, one payment was made, and possession
taken, pursuant to an agreement between the parties. The
residue not being paid, ejectment was brought for the premises. The court say, "At the date of the demise, the possession of defendant was lawful, and not tortious. He entered
on the premises under an agreement with the lessor to sell.
That agreement purported that possession was to be delivered
on the payment of $100, and the defendant paid that sum on
taking possession, under the agreement. He was consequently entitled to notice to quit, or a demand for possession,
before suit was brought." Sugden says :1 "As the possession is in these cases lawful, being with the assent of the
seller, an ejectment will not lie against the purchaser without a demand for possession, and a refusal to quit." And
authorities are quoted. The English decisions are as stated,
and there is not one decision of the Supreme Court of either
the State of Illinois, or the United States, annulling them.
Certain New York cases, especially Jackson v. Miller,ยง may
be cited as establishing a contrary doctrine; but this case
should have no weight with this court: Because 1st, the New
York courts are not consistent on this subject. A number
of New York cases, it may be true, lay down the law differently. In Jacksonv. Miller, Savage, J., pretends to collect
all the authorities on this subject, whereas, he omits those
that would show his position to be fallacious. 2d. In this
See also Jackson v. Niven, 10 Johnson, 335; Jackson v. Wisley, 9 Id.,
267; Taylor v. McCrackin, 2 Blackford, 264; Maynard v. Cable, Wright's
Ohic. 18.
t 9 Johnson, 330.
V7endors and Purchasers, 249, bottom paging, 9 Lond. ed.
7 Cowen, 751.

Dec. 1863.]

GREGG V. VON PHUL.
Argument for the defendant in error.

same decision he admits the English authorities to be against
him. 3d. The English decisions are law in Illinois, and
binding on this court, which, in this case, is to administer
the law of Illinois; whereas, 1New York decisions have no
efficacy in Illinois, only as they tend to show what the common law is.*
Mr. Noell, for Von Phul, defendant in error:
1. The deed tendered by Von Phul was such a deed as,
was stipulated for in the contract which preceded it. It contained all the covenants of warranty required by the agreement.
2. The covenants in the agreement are independent covenants. Von Phul covenants for himself to convey, and
Gregg covenants to pay and execute his notes. The time
for the tender of the deed was immaterial, as to the rights
of Von Phul under the agreement. If Gregg desired it
earlier, he had but to offer to comply with his part of the
contract, and thereby protect himself against the enforcement
of Von Phul's legal title. There is no evidence of any such
offer.
3. The covenants in the agreement being independent, the
remedy of Gregg is upon the covenants for damages, in case
Von Phul has failed to comply. He cannot hold possession
against the legal title after the time for the performance of
the covenants on both sides has elapsed.
4. The plaintiff in error having refused to receive the deed
and comply with the agreement, has thereby abandoned and
waived, by his own act, any right of possession he may have
had, and at the same time rendered a notice to quit unnecessary. He, by the act of refusing the deed, and refusing
to perform the agreement, disavowed his tenancy under a
* The first legislature that sat in Illinois, enacted (Rc-vised Statutes of 1845,
p. 837), that "the common law of England and all statutes or acts of the
British Parliament, made in aid of, or to supply the defects of the common
law, prior to the fourth year of James I, shall be the rule of decision, and
shall be considered of full force until repealed by legislative authority."

GREGG V. VTON PHUL.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

contract for purchase, and can claim no benefits from such a
tenancy.*
5. A tenancy may be determined in three ways: 1st. By
efflux of time, or the happening of a particular event. 2d.
By notice to quit. 3d. By a breach on the part of the tenant of
any of the conditions of his tenancy, as von-payment of rent, or
non-performance of covenants. This latter mode meets the
case at bar, and in such cases no notice to quit is necessary.t
Mr. Justice DAVIS, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court:
In the view we take of this case it is not important to determine whether the deed tendered was such a one as Von
Phul was bound to make, or Gregg obliged to receive. If
the deed was justly liable to objections they should have been
stated% Gregg is estopped now on the most obvious principles of justice from interposing objections, which he did not
even name when the deed was tendered and the money due
on the contract demanded. If the deed was defective and
the defects pointed out, non constat but they could have
been obviated. There is nothing in the evidence, even tending to show, that Von Phul did not act in good faith. The
very silence of Gregg was well calculated to influence the
conduct of Von Phul, and to convince him that the want of
money was the only reason Gregg had for declining to perform the contract. And it would be against good conscience
to permit Gregg now to avail himself of objections which his
failure to make when the deed was tendered, must have induced Von Phul to suppose did not exist.
But it is said that Von Phul covenanted to make the deed
on the first day of March, eighteen hundred and fif y-seven,
when in fact it was not until April, eighteen hundred and
sixty. If this is so, it does not appear how the delay has
harmed Gregg. He was not asked for payment until long
after the contract had matured, and it is fair to presume, in
Lane's Lessee v.Osment, 9 Yerger, 86; Jackson v. Miller, 7 Cowen,
751 ; Den v.MeShane, 1 Green, 35.
- Doe v. Sayer 3 Campbell, 8; Doe r. Lawder, 1 Starkie, 246.

Dec. 1863.]

GREGG r. VON PHUL.
Opinion of the court.

the absence of testimony, that he acquiesced in the delay.
At any rate, as he made no complaint that the deed was
not tendered in season, he has waived his right to object to
the irregularity. The doctrine of estoppels inpais,or by the
act of the party, is founded in natural justice, "and is a principle of good morals as well as law." "The primary ground
of the doctrine is, that it would be ifraud in a party to assert
what his previous conduct had denied, when on the faith of
that denial others have" acted."* No one is permitted to
keep silent when he should speak, and thereby mislead another to his injury. If one has a claim against an estate and
does not disclose it, but stands by and suffers the estate sold
and improved, with knowledge that the title has been mistaken, he will not be allowed afterwards to assert his claim
against the purchaser.t And justly so, because the effect of
his silence has actually misled and worked harm to the purchaser. And in this case the silence of Gregg concludes
him. He cannot now take exceptions to a deed which he
failed to perceive when it was tendered to him, or if he knew
them, failed to disclose.
But it is contended that Gregg was entitled to notice to
quit.
How far a notice to quit is necessary before an action of
ejectment can be brought has been much discussed in England. In this country the authorities are not uniform. In
some of the States the subject is regulated by statute law, or
by rules of court. In New York the question has been fully
considered. The courts of that State hold that where there
isa contract of purchase. and the vendee enters into possession with the consent of the vendor, that ejectment will lie
at the suit of the vendor without a previous notice to quit.4
Notice to quitis generally necessary where the relation of
Hill v. Epley, 31 pennsylvania State, 334; Simons v. Steele, 86 New
Hampshire, 73; Todd v. flaggart, 22 English Common Law, 268.
t Hill v. Epley, 81 Pennsylvania State, 834; Breeding v. Stamper, 18
B. Monroe, 175.
$ Smith v. Stewart, 6 Johnson, 46; Jackson v. Miller, 7 Cowen, 747;
Whiteside v. Jackson, 1 Wendell, 418; Jackson v. M1oncrief, 5 Id., 26.

MALARIN v. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

landlord and tenant exists, and no definite period is fixed for
the termination of the estate, but where a lease is to expire
at a certain time, a notice to quit is not necessary in order
to recover in ejeetment, because to hold over would be
wrong after the duration of the estate was fixed and well
known to lessor and lessee. In an executory contract of
purchase the possession is originally rightful, and it may be
that, until the party in possession is called upon to restore it,
he cannot be ejected without a demand or notice to quit.
But the vendee can forfeit his right of possession, and if he
fails to comply with the terms of sale, his possession afterwards is tortious, and there is an immediate right of action
against him.* It would be an idle ceremony to demand possession, when to a previous demand for the money due on
the contract of purchase, the vendee refused to respond.
This refusal, unaccompanied by any promise to pay the
money at a future day, was equivalent to a direct notice to
Von Phul that Gregg declined to execute the contract.
This action is a possessory one, and it settles nothing but
the right of possession. The equities between the parties
must be determined in another proceeding.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED WITH COSTS.

MALA-RIN V. UNITED STATES.
'When the validity of a Mexican grant has been affirmed by a decree of the
District Court, and an appeal is taken by the claimant seeking a modi-

fication of the decree as to the extent of land embraced by the grant,
but no appeal from such decree is taken by the United States, the validity of the grant is not open to consideration upon the appeal.
When a grant of land, issued and delivered, is subsequently altered in the
quantity granted by direction of the grantor, on the application of the
grantee, and is then redelivered to the grantee, such redelivery is in
legal effect a re-executi6n of the grant.
"When a Mexican grant issued to the claimant is alleged to have been
fraudulently altered after it was issued in the designation of the quan* Prentice v. Wilson, 14 Illinois, 92; Baker v. Lessee of Gittings, 16
Ohio, 489.

