Dec. 1863.]

SCHUCHARDT

v.ALLEINS.

Statement of the case.

ing their authority over the ceded country, to enforce forfeitures, but to afford protection and security to all just
rights which could have been claimed from the government
they superseded.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

SCHUCHARDT V. ALLENS.
1. If no exception have been taken below to a question asked on trial, no
objection can be made to it here.
2. If the answer to a question asked may icnd to prove the matters alleged
in the narr.-if it be a link in the chain of proof-the question may be
asked. It is not necessary that it be sufficient to prove them.
8. In an action for false warranty, whether the action be in assumpsit or in
tort, a scienterneed not be averred; and if averred, need not be proved.
4. Authority without restriction to an agent to sell carries with it authority
to warrant.
5. Where a contract of sale is complete, the vendor cannot hold the vendee
to terms not agreed on, by sending him a bill or memorandum of sale,
with such terms set out upon it, as that ,,no claims for deficiencies or
imperfections will be allowed, unless made within seven days from the
receipt of goods."
6. Whenever the evidence is not legally sufficient to warrant a recovery, it
is the duty of the court to instruct the jury accordingly. But if there
be evidence from which the jury may draw an inference in the matter,
the case ought not to be taken from them. It is not necessary, in order
for the court properly to leave the case with the jury, that the evidence
leads unavoidably to the conclusion that the plaintiff has no case. If
there be evidence proper to be left to the jury it should be left; and a
remedy for a wrong verdict sought in a motion for new trial.

Tnis was an action on the case for false warranty, and for
deceit in the sale of one hundred casks of Dutch madder;
and was brought in the Circuit Court for the Southern District of New York. The declaration contained seven counts.
The first three were for false warranty(without any scienter),
1st. That it was a prime article.
2d. That it was pure and unadulterated.
8d. That it was good, merchantable Dutch madder.
The last three counts were for deceitful representations(witb
stienter) of the same facts. The fourth count, aftei stating

360

SCHUCHARDT V. ALLENS.

[Sup. Ot.

Statement of the case.

that the plaintiffs were calico printers, and required and were accustomed to use Dutch madder, avers that the defendants, knowing this and that the madder was for use, "by falsely and fraudulently representing it to be fit and proper for use in their
business," sold the same, whereas it was not such, and so the
defendants "deceived the plaintiffs."
The defendants pleaded Not Guilty to the whole declaration.
The facts were these: The madder was owned by merchants in Amsterdam, who consigned it to the defendants
in New York for sale upon commission. The vessel containing the madder arrived at New York on the 6th April,
1856, previous to which the defendants had received, by a
Liverpool steamer, a sample put up in the usual way in a
small clear glass bottle, with a ground glass stopper, covered
with bladder, and marked 1 to 100, according to the number
of casks. The sample was handed to R. H. Green & Sons,
who were regular brokers in drugs, &c., in New York, to be
sold.
Mr. Green gave the following account: "I received from
a young man in the employ of defendants a small bottle of
madder, marked 1 to 100, said to represent one hundred casks
of -Dutch madder, with the injunction that it must not be
opened. He left it with me. I asked him subsequently why
he would not have it opened, and he replied, that it was the
only sample bottle which they had, and that it would deteriorate by being opened; which is the fact. The vessel with
the madder was here. They were urgent to have it taken
from the wharf, and as I was about going eastward, I said I
would try and sell it, but still I was told not to have it opened.
It was very handsome to look at. I went to Providence, and
called on the Allens. Mr. Allen is one of our best calico
printers, and has ahvays been in the habit of using the best
madder. Young Allen went with me to the works; he wanted
to see his overseer. We met his overseer, and the bottle was
submitted to him; he thought it was handsome, and the conclusion was, they agreed to take it. The price was named.
He inquired concerning the quality. I told him I knew no-

Dec. 1863.]

SCHUCHARDT

v. ALLENS.

Statement of the mse.

thing of it, except that it came from one of our best houses; the
standing of the house was the best guaranty. The conversation
carried the idea that it was very handsome madder....
The price named was 11 cents per pound for one hundred
casks, without knowing the amount contained in them. lie
said he would take it, and I said he should have it. The price
was fixed by the defendants. The sample bottle was in-the
usual form of such samples. It is usual to have one for every
cask, but here there was but one. I brought the bottle back
with me from Providence. Subsequently, I was applied to
for the sample bottle, afid sent it on; I have never seen it
since. There was no objection to my giving the sample bottle
to the plaintiffs after the sale; it then belonged to them. I
promised to bring back the bottle from Providence. I did
so, and afterwards sent it back to Providence." [This bottle,
it appeared, had been lost by the .Allens.]
The overseer testified as follows: "I saw the sample bottle
in question in Ir. Green's hands, and was told not to open
it. It was verjfair to lookat, and I said so at the time, but I
told them that I could not tell anything about it unless the
bottle could be opened. I was asked about it, and I said it looked
very well; it could not be judged of by any one without
opening the sample bottle. It is the custom to open and
examine the sample bottles. There was no sand in the bottle
apparent to the eye; I saw none in it. No one could have
discovered adulteration from looking at the madder in the
bottle ..... No wise man will buy madder without looking
at it; this is the first I ever knew of a purchase being made
where it was not examined. The madder in the bottle is
always taken out, rubbed and examined. I have had an experience of forty-five years in the business. On the occasion
of this purchase I told them that it was impossible to tell what
the quality of the madder was, unless I examined it; I could only
say that it looked very well."
Without other examination, and without any knowledge
of the quality of the sample, except as it appeared to the eye,
and as inferred from "the standing of the house," the plaintiffs agreed to purehase the lot at 11 cents a pound. Accord-

SCHUCHARDT V. ALLENS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

ingly, upon his return to New York, April 17th, Mr. Green
made an entry of sale in his sales book, and sent a copy to
the defendants. The madder was afterwards weighed, a bill
made out by the defendants, and, on the 28th of April, forwarded to the plaintiffs. This bill contained a memorandum
notice, in small type, in one corner, reading thus: "1.-o claims
for deficiencies or imperfections allowed unless made within seven
days from receipt of goods." It appeared from the testimony
of foreign witnesses that the madder in the flask was of th ,
same quality as that in the casks. About three weeks after
the madder was received by the plaintiffs at their print
works, they began to use it, when they found it not equal to
what they had been accustomed to use. It was "full of
sand;'" "they were obliged to shovel the sand out of the
vats twice a day;" the quantity of sand "varied from two
and a half ounces to four ounces in the pound;" "this variation took place in the same cask;" sand was found "in
streaks" in it; it was "streaked through and through with
sand;" it "was palpable as soon as it was opened ;" "the
streaks were both lengthwise and crosswise;" "they were
strata."
It should be here mentioned that, as was here proved, there
are different qualities of madder, such as mull, little ombro,
ombro, and crops, but they are all known by the common
term of Dutch madder, and also that all madder has in it
more or less sand and other impurities. Even the first
quality has in it from two to eight per cent.; but this madder "was out of all proportion, out of all character;" thirty
to forty per cent. of impurity, fifteen to sixteen per cent.
being sand.
The testimony being closed, the counsel for the defendants
requested the court to instruct the jury as follows:
"1. The gist of the plaintiffs' action is an alleged false warranty and deceit, on the part of the defendants, in the sale of
the madder in question; and to entitle them to recover against
the defendants, they must establish, to the satisfaction of the
jury, such alleged false warranty and deceit.
"2. That, in this form of action, the plaintiff cannot recover

Dec. 1863.]

SCHUCHARDT V. ALLENS.

363

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

without evidence to establish a sczenter on the part of the detendants.
"3. That the broker had no authority or power to warrant
that the bulk should correspond with the madder contained in
the bottle, and thus bind the defendants. But even if he had
such power, still he did not so warrant the same.
"4. That there was not such a sale by sample as in law
amounts to a warranty that the bulk should correspond with
the sample.
"5. That if there was any warranty, it was at most an implied
one, under which the defendants are not liable for any adulteration of the bulk of the madder, unless the plaintiff have, by
competent evidence, established fraud on the part of the defendant in respect thereto.
"6. If there was a warranty of any kind, still the terms stated
in the bill rendered limited the defendants' liability thereon to
seven days, and as no demand for damages was made by the
plaintiff within that time, they are not entitled to recover in this
action."
The court refused to give any one of the instructions asked
for, and the counsel for the defendants thereupon excepted.
During the trial, the broker was asked by the plaintifl'
counsel what kind of madder he had been in the habit of
selling the: plaintiffs, to which the defendants' counsel objected. The court overruled the objection, and counsel for
the defendants excepted. The witness, however, said nothing responsive to the question, until cross-examined by
the defendants' counsel; and no objection appeared in the
record to the testimony which he gave.
The jury rendered a verdict for the plaintiffs for $7333,
being a deduction of thirty per cent. from the price paid for
the madder, which reduced the same to 7J cents per pound.
Thereupon the defendants took a bill of exceptions.
Messrs. Owen and Stougidon, for the plainftff in error:
1. The question about the kind of madder the broker was
in the habit of selling to the plaintiffs was improperly allowed; for the defendants had never sold any madd&x before

SCHUCHARDT

v.

ALLENS.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

ihe lot in question, and there is no evidence that they knew
to what kind the plaintiffs had been accustomed.
2. As respects the exceptions:
The exceptions to the first and second instructions are not
so strong as the others. We press them least.
The third is well founded.
The broker was not authorized to warrant that the madder
to be sold was equal to that contained in the bottle exhibited,
and of this the purchasers had notice at the time the article
was offered to them. Madder, it appeared, is of several
qualities; all contains sand, earthy matter, and other impurities; and in the best, these are found to the extent of from
two to eight per cent. The presence or quantity of these
impurities, the overseer testified, could not be ascertained
fiom an inspection of the sample in the bottle without opening it, and he so told his employers. Thus we have notice
to the buyers that the best and poorest of madder contains these impurities; and knowledge, also, that no one
could tell by the inspection of the sample bottle whether it
contained the best or poorest. The buyers also had notice
that the sellers declined to permit the bottle to be opened,
so as to allow of such an inspection as would enable them to
ascertain from the sample what the bulk of the madder was
to be; and from all this, it follows that the broker was not
authorized, by means of the sample, to make any representation whatever of the quality of the article offered. Under
these circumstances, if the buyers wished to protect themselves by a warranty, they were bound so to have informed
the broker, that his principals might have exercised their
own discretion on the subject, giving or withholding it as
they should deem proper.*
Nqo warranty was in fact made. The mere exhibition of
the sample does not amount to a warranty that the bulk sold
is like it. Representations must be superadded.t In the
* Pplinson v. Lee, 2 East, 314, 322; Welsh v. Carter, 1 Wendell, 190.
t 'Waring v. Mason, 18 Wendell, 425; Hargous v. Stone, 1 Selden, 73;
Bradford v. Manley, 13 Massachusetts, 139, 145; Ormrod v. Ruth, 14 Meeson
!nd Welsby, 651.

Dec. 1863.]

SCHUCIIARDT

v. A.LLENS.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

present case there was no exhibition of a sample. To exhibit a sample, is so to show it that it is to be regarded as a
representative of the bulk to be sold. The buyer examines
the sample, as he would the bulk, if present; and in place
of inspecting the whole, examines the part exhibited to show
what the whole is. But in this case the sellers expressly
declined to permit the madder in the bottle to be so examined that its quality could be determined, and, therefore,
-as it was known to the buyers that whether it contained
the best or poorest could not be ascertained without opening,-there was no measure of excellence known by either
party to which a warranty could be applied, and, therefore,
no agreement upon the subject.
The fourth exception as well as the third is disposed of by
these remarks.
If it be urged that a warranty may be implied from the
fact that the party buying had no opportunity to inspect the
bulk, and, therefore, might rely upon an implied warranty
that it should be as good as the sample appeared to be from
looling at it, the answer is, that the buyers were told by their
experienced overseer, and were bound themselves to know,
that the appearance to the eye would not disclose any of the
impurities .known by all dealers in the article to exist in
madder, even of the best quality. Hence, appearance to the
eye cannot be separated from knowledge by the other senses;
and, therefore, when the eye looked, the mind gave notice
that imperfections existed which the eye could not discover.
Whilst, therefore, to the eye, the madder looked fair, yet
the ordinary dealer knezo that it contained sand and other
impurities; and that although fair to look upon, it might be
of the poorest quality to be found inthe market. Moreover,
the law presumes every dealer in articles brought to market
acquainted with the circumstances usually attendant upon
such articles.*
If it should be held that a warranty existed, at the most
it was but a warranty that the bulk should correspond with
Sands v. Taylor, 5 Johnson, 405.

SCHU CHARDT

v.

ALLENS.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

the actual quality of the sample produced; and this being so,
it follows that there is a fatal variance between the contract
as set forth and that proven. As the sample may, from the
proof, have been of any quality-from the poorest to the
best-the warranty could have been only, that the bulk
ranged in quality between those degrees; and therefore, the
delivery of any madder, merchantable within this range,
would have satisfied the warranty.*
Thus, it is clear, that if a warranty of any kind was made,
the plaintiffs were not entitled to recover; for there was no
evidence to show what was the actual quality or value of the
sample exhibited. The only evidence is the opinion of the
overseer, that it was impossible to say anything about its
quality. There is, therefore, no proof that the madder sold
was not equal to the sample. Indeed, the rule of damages
was assumed to be the difference, not between the value of
the sample and bulk, but between the bulk and the very
best quality of madder known. And this rule was adopted,
not in view of the fact that the sellers had withheld or concealed the sample. It was forwarded by Mr. Green to the
buyers, at their request, and after they had ascertained the
character of the bulk by using from it. They had the means
of showing whether it was of like quality or not; the burden
of this proof was upon them. "The party who extinguishes
the light, and precludes the other party from the means of
ascertaining the truth, ought to bear the loss."
It is manifest from the rule of damages adopted, that the
court below considered, the warranty to have been established, and did not confine themselves to enforcing the principle that the bulk should in fact correspond with the sample exhibited.
As respects the fifth exception, the law is, that, if there
be no warranty, the party seeling to recover must aver and
prove that the seller knew of the defect insisted on; must
accordingly, establish fraud. This is old law, as old as
* Weall v. King, 12 East, 452; Snell v. Moses, 1 Johnson, 96; Perry v.
Aaron, Id., 129; Gardner v. Gray, 4 Campbell, 144; Fraley z. Bispham,
10 Pennsylvanin State, 320.

Dec. 1868.]

SCHIUCIARDT.v. ALLENS.

Opinion of the court.

Chandelor v. Lopus, reported by Croke, temp. 1 James 1,
and made familiar to all in this day by Smith in the Leading
Cases.* "The defendant," says the syllabus in that case,
"sold to the plaintiff a stone, which he affirmed to be a Bezoar stone, but which proved not to be so. Nb action lies
against him, unless he either knew that it was not a Bezoar
stone or warranted it to be a Bezoar stone." "For every
one," says the report, "in selling his wares will affirm that
his wares are good." Mr. Green, however, did not even do
this. His conduct was very careful and upright.
As respects the sixth request for instructions: If the purchasers had not, in judgment of law, an opportunity to inspect the bulk at the time the contract was made at Providence, yet they had opportunity, and it was practicable to do
so, while it was in New York before its delivery. At all
events, they should have made such examination promptly
after it was received at their print works, and within the time
secified in the notice, and communicated the result to the defendants. Their neglect to do this operated to discharge the
implied warranty, or, in other words, it estops the plaintiffs
from insisting that the bulk did not so correspond.t
Mr. Strong, on the other side.
Mr. Justice SWAY1NE delivered the opinion of the court:
1. As respects the question objected to and overruled. Until
cross-examined by the defendants' counsel, the witness said
nothing responsive to the question objected to. No objection
appears in the record to the testimony which he gave. This
is a sufficient answer to the exception. But if the testimony
which the question sought to elicit had been given, its admission would not have been an error.

The fourth count

* 1 Smith's Leading Cases, 238 (5th American edition, by Hare and Wallace). The American principles and authority are set forth by Judge Hare.
See also Parkinson v. Lee, 2 East, 314; Hoe v. Sanborn, 21 New York, 552;
Kingsbury v. Taylor, 29 Maine, 508; Emerton v. Mathews, 1 American
Law Register, N. S., 231; 5 Law Times, 681.
t Yanderhoist v. McTaggart, 2 Bay, 498; Muller v. Eno, 3 .Duer, 421,
425; Prosser v Hooper, 1 Moore, 106; Hargous v.Stone, 1 Selden, 86.

SCIUCHIARDT

v.

ALLENS.

[Sup. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

averred that the plaintiffs "carried on the business of cahco
printers, and as such required fbr their use and were accustomed to use the best Dutch madder, and that the defendants,
by falsely representing the madder in question to be fit for
use in that business, and well knowing that it was bought
by them for use in their business, sold it to the plaintiffs,
whereas," &c. An answer to the question would have been
directly applicable to this count. It would have tended to
prove the kind of madder used by the plaintifls. It was not
necessary that it should be sufficient for that purpose. If such
were its tendency-if it were "a link in the chain of proof,"
it was within the sphere of competency, while its effect was
for the consideration of the jury.
2. The testimony being closed, the counsel for the defendants asked the court to instruct the jury as follows. (His
Honor here stated the requests as given, ante, pp. 359-60.)
The exceptions to thefirst two instructions asked were properly abandoned at the argument in this court. They affirm
propositions which are not legal truths.
The ancient remedy for a false warranty was an action on
the case sounding in tort. Stuart v. Wilkins (1 Douglas, 18);
Williamson v. Allison (2 East, 447). The remedy by assumpsit is comparatively of modern introduction. In Williamson
v. Allison, Lord Ellenborough said it had "not prevailed
generally above forty years." In Stuart v. Wilkins, Lord
Mansfield regarded it as a novelty, and hesitated to give it
the sanction of his authority. It is now well settled, both in
English and American jurisprudence, that either mode of
procedure may be adopted. Whether the declaration be in
assumpsit or tort it need not aver a scienter. And if the
averment be made it need not be proved.*
One of the considerations which led to the practice of declaring in assumpsit was that the money counts might be
Williamson v. Allison, 2 East, 446; Gresham v. Postan, 2 Carrington
W
and Payne, 540; Brown v. Edgington, 2 .Manning and Granger, 279; Holman v. Dord, 12 Barbour, S. C., 386; House v. Fort, 4 Blackford, 293; Trice
v. Cockran, 8 Grattan, 449; Laseter v. Ward, 11 Iredell, Law, 443.

Dec. 1863.]

SCHUCHARDT V.. -ALLENS.

Opinion of the court.

added to the special counts upon the warranty.* If the declaration be in tort, counts for deceit may be added to the
special counts, and a recovery may be had for the false warranty or foi the deceit, according to the proof. Either will
sustain the action.t
The third instruction affirms that the broker by whom the
madder was sold had no power to give any warranty.
Authority, without restriction, to an agent to sell, carries
With it authority to warrant.$
The sixth instruction refers to the memorandum upon the
bill of the madder transmitted by the broker who made the
sale, from New York, on the 28th of April, 1856, to the
plaintiffs at Providence, Rhode Island. The sale was entered
on the broker's books on the 17th of that month. It was
made previously to one of the defendants. The broker says
in his testimony, "The price named was 11J ets. per pound
f6r 100 casks, without knowing the amount contained in
them; he said he would take it, and I said he should have
it. The price was fixed by the defendants." The contract
between the parties thus became complete, and nothing done
subsequently by the defendants or their agent could affect
the rights of the plaintiffs.
The fourth and fifth instructions sought in effect to take
the case from the jury. A Circuit Court has "no authority
to order a peremptory nonsuit against the will of the plaintiff."ยง Where there is no dispute about facts, and the law
arising upon them is conclusive against the right of the
plaintiff to recover, it is proper for the court so to instruct
thejury.I If the evidence be not sufficient to warrant a recovery, it is the duty of the court to instruct the jury accord* Williamson v. Allison,- 2 East, 451.
t Vail v. Strong, 10 Vermont, 457; Brown v. Edgington, 2 Manning and
Granger, 279.
1 Andrews v. Kneeland, 6 Cowen, 354; The Monte Allegre, 9 Wheaton,
616.
J Elmore v. Grymes, 1 Peters, 469; D'Wolf v. Eabaud, Id., 476; Crama
r The Lessee of Morris and Astor, 6 Id., 698.
if Toland v. Sprague, 12 Id., 300.
VOL. L

24

SCHUCHARDT V. ALLENS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

ingly. "This is equivalent to a demurrer to the evidence,
and such an instruction ought to be given whenever the evidence is not legally sufficient to serve as the foundation of a
verdict for the plaintiff."* This practice "has in many of
the States superseded the ancient practice of a demurrer to
evidence. It answers the same purpose and should be tested
by the same rules. A demurrer to evidence admits not only
the facts stated therein, but also every conclusion which a
jury might fairly or reasonably infer therefrom."t
Where the evidence, or any part of it, if believed by the
jury, is decisive of the case, it is proper for the court to instruct the jury to that effect.1
In order to determine whether the court erred in refusing
to give the fourth and fifth instructions, it will therefore be
necessary to consider the state of the evidence before thejury.
At the time of the sale the agent produced a sample bottle. There was but one for the one hundred casks of madder.
It was usual to have one for each cask. The broker was
instructed by his principals not to allow the bottle to be
opened, because the contact of the atmosphere would injure
the appearance of the sample which it contained, and he
acted accordingly. The arrival of the sample preceded the
arrival of the casks from abroad. The sale was to be made
and was in fact made by that sample. The agent says in his
testimony, "The sample was very handsome to look at."
"The conversation carried the idea that it was very handsome madder." There was no sand in the bottle. The sale
was made at Providence, Rhode Island. The casks were at
that time in New York, and it seems from the evidence still
on shipboard. The plaintiffs had no opportunity to examine
their contents. The transaction was a large one. The vendees had no means of forming a judgment of the quality of
the madder in the casks but from the appearance of that in
the bottle, which they were not allowed to open. From
these facts we think the jury were well warranted in drawing
*

Parks v. Ross, 11 Howard, 362.
Bliven v. New England Screw Co., 28 Id., 483.

t Id., 878.

Dec. 1863.]

HARDY V. JO03SO&
Opinion of the court.

the inference that it was the understanding of the vendees
that they were buying under a warranty that the quality of
the madder in the casks was equal to that of the sample in
the bottle, and that the agent of the vendors intended to be
understood as giving such a warranty. It is hardly credible
in the presence of such facts that the understanding and intention of the parties could have been otherwise.
But it is not necessary that the state of the evidence should
have been such as necessarily to lead to this conclusion. It
is enough that there was evidence upon the subject proper
to be left to the consideration of the jury. If the jury erred,
the remedy was by a motion for a new trial, and not by a
writ of error. This part of the case was argued as if such
a motion were before us. The rules of law which would be
applicable in that event are very different from those which
apply as the case is presented. A motion for a new trial in
the courts of the United States is addressed to the sound
discretion of the tribunal which tried the case, and to grant
or refuse it cannot be made the subject of exception.* Here
the question is, whether the court erred in refusing to take
the case from the jury. Upon that subject we concur in the
opinion of the learned judge who tried the cause. If a motion for a new trial were before us we should overrule it. In
our opinion right and justice have been done. The judgment below is
AP.ikMED WITH COSTS.

HARDY V. JOHNSON.
1. By the law of California, one tenant in common of real property can sue
in ejectment, aild recover the demanded premises entire as against all
parties, except his co-tenants, and persons holding under them. But the
judgment for the plain'iff in such case will be in subordination to the
rights of his co-tenants.
2. According to the system of pleading and practice in common law cases
which prevails in the courts of California, and which has been adopted
by the Circuit Court of the United States in that State, a title acquired
. * Brown v. Clarke, 4 Howard, 15.

