400

UNITED STATES V. MORENO.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

This question has been expressly decided by the Supreme
Court of flhinois. That court has held,* "that a judgment for
taxes is fatally defective which fails to show the amount of
tax for which it was rendered, and that the use of numerals,
without some mark indicating for what they stand, is insufficient." The judgment was therefore void, and the court was
right in excluding the evidence from the jury.
Judgment is
AFFIRMED WITH COSTS.

UNITED STATES V.

MORENO.

1. Where there are no subscribing witnesses to a Mexican grant in coloni-

zation, the signature of the governor who executed the grant, and of
the secretary who attested it, may be proved by any one acquainted
with their handwriting. Such evidence is in no sense secondary. United
States v. Auguisola (ante, p. 352), approved.
2. The cession of California to the United States did not impair the rights
of private property. These rights were consecrated by the law of nations, and protected by the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo. The act of
March 3d, 1851, to ascertain and settle private land claims in the State
of California, was passed to assure to the inhabitants of the ceded territory the benefit of the rights thus secured to them. It recognizes
both legal and equitable rights, and should be administered in a liberal
spirit.

ON an appeal from the decree of the District Court of the
United States for the Southern District of California, the
record disclosed the following facts: On the 5th of April,
1845, Moreno submitted to Pio Pico, then Governor of the
Department of California, a petition, wherein he set forth
that he had "denounced, in due form, a square league of land
situate between Temecula and the Lagoon called Santa Bosa, to
which, after preirious judicial investigation," he prayed "to
be awarded the respective title, on the ground that it is absolutely vacant and without any availableness." The governor
ordered the petition " to be sent for the report of" the proLawrence v. Fast, 20 Illinois, 340; Lane v. Bommelmann, 21 Id., 147.

Dec. 1863.]

8UNITED

STATES V. MORENO.

Statement of the case.

per officer. The officer reported that the land was "in an
entire vacant state." The governor thereupon ordered the
petition to be returned to Moreno, that he might annex a
plat of the land,-the application to come again before the
government. Moreno was authorized to occupy the land
"provisionally," and it was added, "meanwhile the mentioned title-deed is being made out."
On the 31st of January, 1846, Moreno presented the governor a new petition with the required plat. In this petition he says: "In accordance with the decree your excellency thought fit to give in the month of April, in the year
1845, requiring me to present the plat of the land I occupy
provisionally, called Santa R-osa, I hereby, with the deepest
submission, accompany my petition and the plat, that your
excellency may have the goodncss to make out the title-deed
of ownership to me of the land bordering on Temecula, the
Lagoon, and Santa Margarita, not naming the number of leagues,
as I might be mistaken, but I ask that the land which has
no owner, and which I demand in due form, be set apart for
my individual benefit and that of my family."
The governor ordered "the title-deed to be issued and
given to the interested party with obligation to amend the
plat." On the day last mentioned, a deed was issued, subject
to the approval of the Departmental Assembly. It purported
to be subscribed by the governor and secretary, but there were
nr subscribing witnesses to it. It contained with others the following clauses:
"The land donated to him is the same as exhibited in the plat
attached to this expediente, and borders on land of Temecula, on

fhe Lagoon, and on Santa Margarita.
"The judge who shall possess him of it will cause it to be
measured conformable to ordinance, and give notice to the go-

vernment of the number of leagues (sitios de ganado mayor) it nmy
contain.
, " Consequently, I order that this title-deed, being held firm
and valid, it be entered in the respective book and delivered to

the interested party for his security and other purposes."
VOL. 1.

26

UNITED STATES V. MORENO.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The subject was submitted to the Departmental Assembly,
and on the 3d June, 1846, that body approved and confirmed
the grant.
It appeared by the testimony of one Foster, in early life
a justice of the peace, but who had been for many years a
"ranchero" in California, that "Santa Rosa" was the name
given to a well-known tract; that it adjoined another wellknown tract, called" Temecula," on the east, a second, known
as "Santa Margarita," on the west, and that a third, called
"La Laguna," stood off in a direction northeasterly. This
was confirmed by two other witnesses.
Moreno resided upon and cultivated the land from the
time he was authorized to occupy it until the acquisition of
the country by the United States.
After the acquisition he presented a petition to the Board
of Commissioners, established by the act of Congress of 3d
March, 1851, to ascertain and settle private land claims in
Califoruia, to have his title confirmed, pursuant to the provisions of that statute. The commissioners having confirmed
it, an appeal was taken by the United States to the District
Court; and that court having affirmed the report of the
commissioners, the United States brought the case here by
appeal.
It was objected on behalf of the United States to the decree of the District Court:
1. That the "grant is proved, by secondary evidence of
handwriting, without the legal basis for its introduction
having first been laid;" this objection being made in the case,
however, in this court only.
2. That the location and quantity of the land are entirely
ancertain both in the grant and in the disefio.
Mr. Willes, for the United States.
Mr. Justice SWAY-IE delivered the opinion of the court:
The first objection refers to the proof of the signatures of
the governor and secretary to the deed to Moreno, which was
made by persons acquainted with their handwriting, without
those officers being called or their absence accounted for.

Dec. 1863.]

STATES V. MOREIMo.
. .
UITED
Opinion of the court.

There are no subscribing witnesses to the deed. It was
therefore allowable, according to the common law, to prove
the signatures by any one acquainted with their handwriting.
Such evidence was as competent and valid as the testimony
of the writers themselves. It is in no sense secondary evidence.* Were the rule otherwise, it is a sufficient answer
to the objection, that it does not appear that the evidence
was objected to when it was offered and received in the court
below. If no objection be made, the existence and contents
of a record may be proved by parol evidence, and a court of
errors will not for that reason reverse the judgment.t The
testimony is found in the record, without aiiy exception, and
must have its legitimate effect. In this class of cases, where
the documentary proof of title is plenary, and no suspicion
is raised as to its genuineness, it is the settled rule of this
court to regard such evidence as both competent and suifcient.$ We have no doubt of the genuineness of all the
papers composing this espediente. No question was made
upon the subject in the court below.
It is further objected to the decree that "the location and
quantity of the land are entirely uncertain, both in the grant
and the diserio."
The tract is described in the titulo as known by the name
of SantaRosa, and as bounding upon Temecula, the Lagoon,
and Santa Margarita. The petitioner asked for a title to all
the vacant land in that locality, and it was conceded to him
accordingly.
It is proved by the testimony of three witnesses that Santa
Rosa was a well-known rancho; that Temecula, the Lagoon,
and San Margarita were well-known contiguous ranchos,
and that there was not the least difficulty either in identifyig Santa Rosa, or in ascertaining its boundaries. There is
no contradictory evidence upon the subject. The District
Court held the evidence to be sufficient, and we concur in
that opinion.
2 Phillips on Evidence, 4th American edition, 604.
t Newberry v. Lee, 3 Hill, 523.
1 United States v. Auguisola, ante, p. 352.

U.NIrED STATES V. MORENO.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

The record presents every link in the chain of a perfect
espediente. There is a petition with a diseno, an order of
reference, an informe by the proper officer, a decree of concession, a titulo, and the approval of the Departmental -Assembly.*
The Surveyor-General of California certifies that the espediente is copied from the archives in his possession. It is
not necessary to the validity of the title that the land should
have been surveyed and the quantity ascertained.t
California belonged to Spain by the rights of discovery
and conquest. The government of that country established
regulations for transfers of the public domain to individuals.
When the sovereignty of Spain was displaced by the revolutionary action of Mexico, the new government established
regulations upon the same subject. These two sovereignties
are the spring heads of all the land titles in California, existing at the time of the cession of that country to the United
States by the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo. That cession
did not impair the rights of private property. They were
consecrated by the law of nations, and protected by the treaty.
The treaty stipiulation was but a formal recognition of the
pre-existing sanction in the law of nations. The act of
March 3d, 1851, was passed to assure to the inhabitants ot"
the ceded territory the benefit of the rights of property thus
secured to them. It recognizes alike legal and equitable
rights, and should be administered in a large and liberal
spirit. A right of any validity before the cession was equally
valid afterwards, and while it is the duty of the court in the
cases which may come before it to guard carefully against
claims originating in fraud, it is equally their duty to see
that no rightful claim is rejected. No nation can have any
higher interest than the rigtht administration of justice.
The decree of the District Court is
AFFIRMED.

* United States v. Knight's Adm'r, 1 Black, 245.

:Fremont v. United States, 17 Howard, 542; United States v. Maca, 18
Id.. 556.

