Dec. 1863.]

UNITED STATES V. WORMA1_.

745

Statement of the case.

class of cases where confirmation has been refused, because
there was no record evidence to support the claim. United
States v. Cambuston, 20 How., 59; United States v. Teschmaker,
22 Id., 892; Fuentes v. United States, 22 Id., 448; UnitedStates
v. Osio, 28 Id., 280; United States v. Bolton, 28 Id., 841; Luco
et al. v. United States, 28 Id., 515; -Palmeret al. v. United States,
24 Id., 126; United States v. Castro, 24 Id., 846; United States
v. Veleigh, 1 Black, 298; United States v. Knight, 1 Id., 229;
United States v. Vallejo, 1 Id., 541; United States v. Galbraith,
2 Id., 894.
But the present case, in one respect, is much stronger than
any one of those which have preceded it. All of the preceding decisions rest upon the ground that there was an entire
want of record evidence to support the claim, but in this
case the record evidence itself, if there be any, shows that
the supposed grant was never issued. Our conclusion, therefore, is, that the decree of the District Court is correct, and
it is accordingly
ANFnuED.

UNITED STATES V. WORKMAN ET AL.
The Governor of California had no power, on the 8th June, 1846, either
under the colonization law of August 18, 1824, and the regulations of
November 21, 1828, nor yet under the despatch of Mfarch 10, 1846, from
Tornel, *Minister of War, nor under the proclamation of Mariano
Paredes y Arrilaga, President, ad interim, of the Mexican Republic,
dated March 13, 1846-these two last made in anticipation of the invasion of California by the forces of the United States-nor under any
other authority, to make a valid sale and grant of the mission of San
Gabriel in California.
APPEAL by the United States from a decree of the District
Court for the Southern District. of California, confirming a
decision of the Board of Commissioners appointed by the act
of March 8, 1851, for the settlement of private land claung
in the State just named, by which decision an estate known
as the ex-mission of San Gabriel was confirmed to Workman

UNITED STATES V. WORKMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

and Crosby, appellees in the case. The petition represented
that "on the 8th day of June, 1846, Pio Pico, then Governor
of California, in the name of the Mexican nation, by virtue
of authority in him vested by the laws of Mexico, the authority given him by the DepartmentalAssembly for the alienation of the missions, and the instructions and authority conferred upon him by the Supreme Government, as -well as the
laws and customs of the country, and also to pay debts of
the government, sold and conveyed unto the said Workman
and one Perfecto Hugo Reid the said ex-mission, with the
appurtenances which at that time were considered as appertaining to the same, whether of lands, improvements, real
estate, or cattle; that juridical possession was duly given to
said Reid and Workman, and that they remained in peaceable possession until they were forcibly ejected by soldiers
under command of officers of the government of the United
States; that at the time of the grant, the said Reid and
Woikman were large creditors of the Mexican government,
and that the sale of the mission to them was in all respects
fair and for its full value, at that time honestly'paid by
them." The appellant Crosby claimed by transfer from
Reid.
The alleged grant as translated was substantially in these
words, and, as presented below, had written upon it an undated proclamation; all as here printed.
"Pio PIco, CONSTITUTIONAL GOVERNOR, &C.

"Having been first authorized by the most excellent the Departmental Assembly, for the alienation of the missions, as well as for
paying their debts, and avoiding the total ruin of the same, and
to provide resourcesthat may assist in case offoreign invasion,which
according to self-evident data is very near happening, in which
case the government of the department has received ample powersfrom
the supreme one of the nation; considering that the Sefiores Reid
and Workman have rendered valuable services to the governmeut, and furnished eminent aid for the better protection and
security of the department under the guarantee of a just indemnification when the general treasury should be unembarrassed, and
whereas those Seaores have solicited for their personal benefit,

Dec. 186-3.]

UNITED STATES V. WORKMAN.

Statement of the case.

and that of their families, the mission of San Gabriel. with all its
lands, improvements of town and country, in payment of the
sums which at different periods they have advanced to the
departmental government, binding themselves to satisfy the
debts against said mission, &c., as also to assign a proportional
part or sum for the maintenance of the ministering fathers, who
may live there, and for the preservation of the divine worship:
Having seen and considered all that it behooves to see and consider : In the exercise of the powers wherewith Ifind myself invested,
I make a real sale and perpetual alienation forevermore to the
Sefores, &c., of the mission of San Gabriel, with all the appurtenances, recognized as thereunto belonging, consisting of lande,
improvements, real estate, or self-moving property.
"The following conditions are imposed:
"1st. They will pay to the creditors of the mission the sums
which may be proved at the farthest in the term of two years at
most.
"2d. They will advance on their own account the necessaries
for the subsistence of the father minister, who at any time may
live there, as also for thb preservation of divine worship.
"In consequence by these present titles, that the above-named
are legitimate owners -of the said mission of San Gabriel jointly,
on the terms, and under the conditions above stated.
"By virtue whereof they may take possession of the same from
this moment; and for due testimony in all times, I give this
instrument as a deed in due form, &c., on the eighth day of
June, eighteen hundred and forty-six.
"Pio Pico.
"JOSE MIATIAS

MORENO,

Secretary ad interim.

"This patent is entered on the respective book.
MORENO."

Cc

The proclamation annexed was as follows, viz.:
"PROCLAMATION.
"fIO PICO, CONSTITUTIONAL

GOVERNOR OF THE DEPARTMENT

OFCALI-

FORNIA, TO ITS INHABITANTS:

"Know ye that the country being menaced by the sea and
land forces of the United States of America, which already occupy
the towns q" Xonterey, Sonoma, San Francisco, and other frontier

748

TUrrED STATES V. WORKMAN.

[Sup. Jt.

Statement of the case.

places north of this department, where already waves the flag of the
stars, threatening to occupy the other ports and towns, and subject the same to their laws; and this government being firmly
resolved to make all possible efforts to repel the most unjust of
aggressions which the latter centuries have beheld made by a
nation inspired by the most unheard of ambition."
The authenticity of the grant was proved by a certain
Nicholas A. Den, who testified that he knew the handwriting
of both Pico and Moreno, having frequently seen them both
write, and that the signatures to the grant were genuine.
Moreno, who was secretary of state while Pico was governor,
testified that a bargain was made between Pico on the one
part and Reid and Workman on the other, for the mission
in question, and that a written document was given to them
in the form of a title; though he did not recollect the date,
but thought it was in May or June, 1846.
As respected the power of the governor to grant mission
lands, there was no doubt that under what is known as the
colonization law of August 18, 1824, and certain regulations
of 21st November, 1828, the governor had power to grant
vacant lands belonging to the Supreme Government. But
whether under those laws he could grant lands like these
missions, was one of the questions in the suit. [The reporter
not having heard this case, which was decided before his
appointment, and not finding a reference on his brief to the
place where the important language is, is unable here to set
it forth.]
The power, though claimed in part as coming under those
laws, was placed more particularly upon other grounds,
grounds arising from acts relating specially to the missions,
or from supreme powers given to the governors about the
time of the invasion of the country by the United States,
and in order to enable the governors to repel it. On the
17th August, 1833, the Supreme Government passed a decree
to secularize the missions of California.
It declared, among other things:
"ART. 1. The government will proceed to secularize the mis.

sions.

Dec. 1863.]

e NITED STATES V. WORKMAN.
Statement of the case.

"ART. 2. In each shall be established a parish, served by a
secular clergyman, with a stipend, as the government shall
decide.
"1ART.3. These parochial curates shall not recover or receive
any fees for marriages, baptisms, or under any other name.
".ART. 7. Of the houses belonging to each mission, the most
suitable shall be selected as the residence of the curate; the land
appropriated to him not to exceed two hundred yards square,
and the rest shall be specially devoted to a town-house,_primary
school, and public establishmentsand offices."
On the 3d November, 1838, the Mexican Congress passed
an act authorizing the executive to adopt the measures necessary for their colonization, and with this view to use
the property granted to pious uses, in order to facilitate
the operations of the commissions and the transportations
of families. On the 16th April, 1834, another law was
passed, declaring that "all the missions of the republic shall
be secularized." They "shall be converted into curacies,
the limits of which shall be designated by the governors of
the States where the said missions are." On the 9th August,
1834, certain rules, "agreeably to the spirit" of previous laws
and instructions, were accordingly issued for the secularization of the missions, the rules, however, being provisional,
and it being declared that "the Supreme Government will,
by the quickest route, be requested to approve of them."
On the 3d November, 1834, a decree of the Departmental
Assembly provided for the colonization of the lands which
had been secularized. On the 7th November, 1835, however,
a law was passed by the Mexican Congress, enacting that
until the curates should take possession, under the second
article of one of the previous laws, "the government shall
suspend the execution of the remaining article,, and keep
matters in the condition in which they were before the pas;
sage of the said law." On the 17th November, 1840, Franco,
Bishop of the Californias, addressed the Supreme Government on the subject of these missions. His letter, imperfectly translated, contains passages like these:
"From the time that the temporalities, which they created

UNITED STATES V. WORKMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

and augmented with their personal labor and their stipends,
were taken away from the missionaries, and that the seculars
and their attendants (among whom are some I am acquainted
with), and to whom no one would trust anything, entered into
the possession of the property of the missions, their destruction
was already doomed. In 1836, I notified to the Supreme Government the evils which the missionaries have to contend with, and
not the least among these, that the administrators of them took
possession of the houses in which the fathers were living,houses built by the religiosi, and in the construction of which
they had invested the stipends they were receiving, and the labor
of their hands. The fathers have been compelled, as I myself
can bear witness, to live there as so many bankrupts, and with
great inconvenience. The administrators keep in the habitations
certain people who disturb all rest at nights, by their intoxication, gambling, and dancing, which the converts witness with
shame. How insupportable is this! And what a miserable life
for a few devoted religiosi! So much so is it, indeed, that many
of them contemplate the abandonment of the missions, and to
seek peace and tranquillity of mind in retirement. A tormenting life, indeed, and one which has dissuaded many persons from
going to the missions, because they would not expose themselves
to such suffering and to such disregard for their character. I
well know, and have already communicated it to the government, that within a short time there will be nothing of the
property of those opulent missions, which the administrators
received when the fathers delivered them over. What missionftary father is there who will be willing to labor to increase
the property of the unhappy Indians, if experience teaches him
that the fruit of his labor is to be taken away from the legitimate owners, and delivered to others, whom it has cost no anxiety
or labor, to enjoy? Who is the religiosothat would desire to build
a house or plant an orchard for his recreation and comfort, if he
sees that they are to be taken away from him, and to be possessed by the men who before have been supported by alms, the
gift of these 'very missionaries, and that the unhappy fathers
have to live at their own expense? What I insist on, and will
always insist on, is that the houses and orchards which they or
their predecessors have made, and which are contiguous to and
in immediate communication with the churches, remain to the
benefit and use of the missionaries. The administrators, as they

Dec. 1863.]

UNITED STATES V. WORKMAN.

Statement of the case.

have at their disposition the Indians and property of the missions, can build a house for them, and leave the fathers in peace
and quietude. I deem this measure of so great necessity, that
if it is not adopted, there will not be any one who will desire to
go to serve the missions at all."
To this letter were appended eight different requests, the
purpose of which was to give effect to the wishes precedentedly expressed. And on the day of its date, an order
issued from the Ministry of the Interior, reciting that his
excellency the President had been pleased "to decree in
conformity with everything asked in it;" and stating that
an order was issued from the said ministry to the Governor
of California, "to restore without delay to the missionary
fathers the possessions and property which were under their
administration for the conversion of the heathen."
In the year 1843 (June 12th), the Mexican government
adopted a new constitution,-Bases Organica. Its seventh
chapter is entitled, Gobierno de los Departementos,and relates,
as its name implies, to the government of the departments.
Among the powers given to the Departmental Assembly are
these:
111. To establish the means of meeting their ordinary expenditures, or of making those that are extraordinary,which they may
direct according to their powers with the approbation of the
Congress.
"2. To decree what may be proper respecting the acquisition,
alienations, and exchanges of the property that may belong to
the community of the department. With regard to the alienation
of lands, they shall observe the existing laws, and whatever is decreed
by the laws of colonization."
On the subject of these missiont, it appeared that on the
21st April, 1845, Pio Pico being then governor, the Assembly decreed thus:
"The government will demand information of all the persons
having charge of the missions, in order that they may give it
truthfully, of active and passive debts, showing the resources
they have to pay the passive ones.

UNITED STATES V. WORKMAN.

[Sup. Ot.

Statement of the case.
"The government, from the publication of the present decree,
will suspend, until a convenient time, the granting of the lands
immediately contiguous to the missions, considering that some of
them are indispensable, or reserved and appropriated under the
class of common lands."
On the 28th May, 1845, it made this decree:
"The departmental government shall call together the Indians
of the missions of San Rafael, Dolores, Soledad, San Miguel, and
La Purisima [San Gabriel, it will be observed, is not mentioned],
which are abandoned by them, by means of a proclamation, which
it will publish, allowing them the term of one month from the
day of its publication in their respective missions, or in those
nearest to them, for them to reunite for the purpose of occupying and cultivating them; and they are informed that, if they
fail to do so, said missions will be declared to be without owners,
and the Assembly and departmental government will dispose of
them as may best suit the general good of the department."
On the 28th October, 1845, it decreed thus:
"There will be sold in this capital, to the highest bidder, the
missions of San. Rafael, Dolores, Soledad, San Miguel, and La
Purisima, which are abandoned by their neophytes. The missions of San Fernando, San Buenaventura, Santa Barbara, and
Santa Ynez, shall be rented out to the highest bidder for the term
of nine years." [Bonds, &c., to be given.]
It will be observed that the mission in question in this
suit is not mentioned as among either those to be sold or
those to be rented.
On the 30th March, 1846, another decree was passed:
"The government is authorized to carry into effect the object
of the 'decree of the 28th of May last respecting missions; to
which end the departmental government will act in the manner
which may appear most conducive to obviate the total ruin of
the missions of San Gabriel, San Luis Rey, San Diego, and the
remainder which are in similar circumstances.
"As most of these establishments are owing large amounts,
if the property on hand should not be sufficient to satisfy their
acknowledged debts, attention shall be had to what the laws determine respecting bankruptcies, and steps shall be taken accordingly.

Dec. 1868.]

UNITED STATES V. WORKMAN.

Statement of the case.

•Should government., by virtue of this authority, find that in
crder to prevent the total ruin which threatens said missions, it
will be necessary to sell then to privatepersons, this shall be done.
at public auction, the customary notice being previously given

This decree was soon followed by a letter from the
It
MINISTRY OF INDUSTRY AIND PUBLIC INSTRUCTION.

It
MOST EXCELLENT SIR:

"His Excellency, the President, has received information that
the government of that department has ordered that the property belonging to the missions thereof be put up for sale at
public auction, which your Excellency's predecessor had ordered
to be returned to the respective missionaries for the direction
and administration of their' temporalities; therefore he has
deemed proper for me to say that the said government will
please to report upon these particulars, suspending immediately
all proceedingsrespecting the alienation of the aforesaidproperty till
the determinationof the Supreme Government. I have the honor, &C.
"GOD AND LiBERTY.
"MONTESDEOCA.

"IMExIco,

Nov. 14, 1845.

"To his Excellency the Governor of the

Department of the Californias."
On the other hand, reliance was had, among other, things,
on a circular public letter, or authority, as follows:
"MINISTRY Or WAR

AND MARINE.

"To THE GENERAL COMMANDER OF CALIFORNTA:

"The preparations which the 'United States are making, and
the approach of the naval forces towards our ports, leave no
doubt that war with that power is about. breaking out, and as
his Excellency the President pro tern. is resolved to sustain the
rights of the nation, he wishes that in all the ports of the republic where the enemy may present itself a rigorous defence be
made, capable of giving honor and glory to the national flag.
For that object, and until the Supreme Government appropriates
and sends you the necessary means, it relies upon your patriotism and fidelity to dictate the measures which you may judge
necessary for the defence of that department, for which purpose
you and his Excellency I are invested with full powers. And I
VOL. L

48

-UNITED STATES V. WORKMAN.

[Sup.-Ct.

Argument against the sale.
have the honor to transcribe the same to you for your cognizance, hoping that you on your part will leave no efforts to preserve ent-re the rights of the nation.
"GOD AND LIBERTY.

"TORNEL.

"EMxico,

March 10, 1846."

And also a proclamation of President Paredes y Arillaga,
of which the important part was:
MA RINO PAREDES Y ARILLAGAI GENERAL OF DIVISION A.ND PRESIDENT
AD INTERIM OF THE MEXICAN REPUBLIC.

"TO THE INHABITANTS THEREOF.

KNOw YE:

"That, on account of the actual state of the country, threatened
with a foreign war, and a large and important part of its territory invaded, considering that the time has arrived to act with
the greatest activity and energy, to repel the most unjust aggressions, to recover the usurped territory, and to preserve the glory
and honor of the nation; and convinced that, for the accomplishment of objects so grand, it is necessary to secure order and
peace within; in the exercise of the powers vested in me, &c., I
have thought proper to decree the following:
"The attention of the governors of the departments is called
to the circular of the 24th December of last year past for the
punctual observance thereof, wherein is conferred upon them the
extension of the powers granted to the Executive by the decree
of Congress, dated the 21st of the same month, in conformity
with the 198th article of the organic law.
"The governors of the departments are authorized to act expeditiously in extraordinary cases, and with due justification to
preserve the great interests of the independence and the integrity of the national domain, and to secure tranquillity and
public order, without which these inestimable blessings cannot
be sustained.
"MARIANO PAREDES Y ARILLAGA.
S NATI'NAL PALACE, MEXICO,

March 13, 1846.
"To Don Joaquin Maria Castillo y Lanzas."
Messrs. Bates, A. G., and Wills, for the United Sates:
1. The deed is not genuine, but has been fabricated, and
this after the date at which it purports to have been exe-

Dec. 1863.]

UNITED STATES V. WORKMAN.
Argument against the sale.

cuted. It purports to have been made June 8, 1846. The
governor's proclamation, which forms part of the expediente.
and must have been contemporaneous with the grant (else
why should it be connected with it?) recites the capture and
"occupancy of the towns of Monterey, Sonoma, San Fran-.
cisco, and other frontier places north of this department,
where already waves the flag of the stars." These events
we know, historically, occurred after July 7, 1846. The proclamation was added to the expediente in order to furnish
evidence of the public exigency under which the grant was
made,-a sale made, as it was pretended, to raise money for
the public defences. But the appended proclamation proves
the very fraud which it was invented to conceal.
2. Supposing the deed genuine, it is not formally proved.
No evidence of the authenticity of the grant has been offered,
but secondary evidence of the handwriting of the governor
and secretary, no legal basis having been laid for its introduction. *Moreno, the secretary, did not testify to the genuineness of this grant or of his signature, but spoke of "a
bargain" and "a title."
3. There is no evidence of the performance of the conditions of sale. In United States v. Bolton,* where the Mission
Dolores had been sold on condition of paying its debts, evidence of this kind was held to be necessary, and its absence
regarded as evidence of the fraudulent character of the grant.
4. The power to grant lands under the colonization law of
August 18, 1824, and the regulation of November 21, 1828,
has always been considered to -apply to vacant lands; and
the lands which came within the scope of these provisions
were not the subject of sale, but of colonization. Under
those provisions the sale cannot be sustained. Neither is
there anything in any of the decrees, &c., which gives such
power as Pio Pico, supposing his grant genuine, has attempted to exercise. The sale of the missions was extremely
odious to the Catholic clergy, as the letter of the Bishop of
California shows; and the project was arrested,as the letter
* 23 Howard, 353.

UNITED STATES V. IVORKMAN.

[SuILp. Ct.

Argument in favor of the sale.

of Montesdeoca also shows. To assert that under the loose
powers given by Secretary Tornel's circular of March 10,
1846, the governor was vested with absolute ownership of
all lands in Mexico, as well those which had been scrupulously withheld from sale as those that had been granted,
claims too much for it, and the case is not aided by the subsequent proclamation of Paredes. Abundant effects can be
given to both papers to answer every requisition of their
language without giving the immense, despotic, and unjust
power here asked for by the counsel of the claimants.
Messrs. Butterworth and Walker, contra:
1. The fact that on the back of the office copy of the grant
there is found a rough draft of an official proclamation, which,
from its terms, appears to have been written after the 7th
of July, is an evidence of the integrity of the grant. It
makes the fact clear that the document was at that time remaining in the secreta)y's office. It is known and proved that
the government was then destitute of funds and of all necessaries. This writing upon the back of the grant may have
been from accident or want of paper.
2. The proof of handwriting is not secondary evidence.
Precedent establishes this. The objection will not be made,
it is to be hoped, after this term.*
3. The payment of the debts of the missions was but a
charge upon the estate, which the creditors may enforce at
any time, if they have not already done so.t If a condition,
it was a condition subsequent, and no law of denunciation
exists to forfeit the estate.t
Although the grant of the mission was made on sale, it is
nevertheless a colonization grant. Sales were one of the
most effective means of colonization. It cannot be pretended
that, if in additiou to settlement, the governor had received
money from the grantee, that that fact would avoid the grant.
Even if the officer had exacted it illegally and wrongfully,
See United States v. Moreno, ante, 403.-REP.
t Taft v. Morse, 4 Metcalf, 528; Sheldon v. Purple, 15 Pickering 528.
Fremont v. United States, 17 Howard, 542.

Dec. 1863.]

UNITED STATES V. WORKMAN.
Argument in favor of the sale.

in addition to settlement and occupation, there is no pretence for saying it would have avoided the grant; much less,
when it is shown that the money so received went into the
treasury or to the necessary use of the government. The
governor in his grant recites that he acts in virtue of all the
power he possessed fiom whatever source derived. The title
recites that the grantees "have rendered considerable services to the government, and also lent good assistance for
the better preservation and security of the department, under
guarantee of just recompense, whenever the general treasury
should be released." The ninth article of the colonization
law of 1824 expressly makes services a good consideration
for a grant. This court recognizes such service as a good
consideration for a grant.* The same consideration is recognized in the Sutter case,t as to the defence of the frontier
and the civilization of the Iudians,-things not specially
mentioned in the colonization laws. The colonization law
does not define the character of the services. They may be
either personal or pecuniary. "Serviio" is the word used
both in the law of 1824 and in these grants. It is defined by
Newman: "Services, utility, benefit, advantage; a sum of
money voluntarily offered to the king; service to the kings
in war." It is thus evident that it includes pecuniary service, and was so intended by the act of 1824.
The Departmental Assembly seems always, in conjunction
with .the governor, to have exercised a large jurisdiction
over the missions. They were clothed with the power of
administering them as a branch of the public revenue, and
an a subject of public property. It is notorious that they
granted the agricultural and pastoral lands once occupied
by the missions at pleasure. The regularity of these grants
was always recognized by the Supreme Government of
Mexico. The acts of. Governor Alvarado in this respect
were expressly approved in 1840. Their validity has been
declared by this court.t
* United States v. Larkin, 18 Howard, 557.
t Same v. Sutter, 21 Id., 170.
$ Same v. Cruz Cervantes, 18 Id., 553.

-UNITED STATES V. WORKMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

It cannot be doubted that the 7th chapter of the Constitution of 1843, Bases Organica,gave very ample powers to the
Departmental Assembly. The first article confers the largest
power which any government can have, that of providing
the means of meeting the expenses of the government, both
ordinary and extraordinary. With the power to provide
for ordinary and extraordinary expenses of the government,
and raise revenue and means for those purposes, does it
admit of doubt that the public domain might be resorted to,
so that the general object of colonization and the settlement
of the country were secured in these alienations? It is also
well known to the court and the case shows that a decree
was passed by the Supreme Government, when the war broke
out, enlarging the powers of the governors of departments.
In March, 1846, the government of Mexico was nearly absolute in the hands of the Federal Executive. On the 10th of
that month the President directed to the Governor of California an order instructing that officer to prepare for a vigorous defence; for which purpose the governor was invested
"withfull powers" to do what he "judged necessary" for the
defence of California. This left the means of raising funds
entirely within the discretion of the governor, and operated
as a repeal of the order of 14th November, 1845, known as
the "Montesdeoca Decree." Besides which, the word "property" (bienes), used in the latter decree, referred only to the
personal property, church and curate's lot. It never was
intended to apply to the agricultural and grazing land formerly in use by the mission.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Appellees, in their petition to the commissioners, represented that Governor Pio Pico, on the eighth day of June,
1846, granted, sold, and conveyed in full property unto the
first-named appellee and one Perfecto Hugo Reid, the mission of San Gabriel, with all the appurtenances appertaining
to the same, whether they consisted in lands, improvements,
or cattle; and they also alleged that the juridical possession
was duly given to the grantees of all that property, "whether

Dec. 1863.]

UNITED STATES V. WOImiMAT.
Opinion of the court.

buildings, vineyards, orchards, gardens, or land, and that
the grantees remained in peaceable and quiet possession of
the premises until they were forcibly ejected from the same
under the orders of al officer of the 'United States. Representation also was, that the grantees at the time of the purchase were large creditors of the Mexican government, and
that the sale was in all respects fair and genuine, and for the
full value of the property. Other appellee claims title as
grantee under the other original purchaser, and the record
shows that a copy of that conveyance was filed with the
petition.
I. Claimant introduced the grant described in his petition
as. the foundation of his claim, and it bears date as represented in the petition, and purports to have been signed by
the governor as therein set forth and alleged. Recitals of
the document show that the grantees solicited the grant for
their own benefit and that of their families, and yet the
record furnishes no trace of any such petition. None such
was introduced, nor was there any attempt made at the hearing to account for its absence. Authority to grant the property of the missions, as specified in the instrument,, is
claimed to have been derived from the Departmental Assembly. Reasons assigned for the exercise of the power were,
that it was necessary both for the payment of their indebtedness, and to prevent their total ruin, and as if those reasons
were insufficient or unsatisfactory, it is added, "and to provide resources that may assist in the common defence in case
of foreign invasion, which, according to self-evident data, is
very near happening." Theory of claimant is, that the sale
was a public sale, but there is no evidence of the fact; and
the presumption, if any, fiom the recitals of the grant, is
clearly the other way. Had the sale been a public one, then
it.would have beep -f no importance whether the purchasers
were worthy or unworthy persons, provided they were the
highest bidders and competent to take, and actually paid or
secured the consideration. But the representation is, that
they had "rendered valuable services to the government,
and furnished eminent aid for the better protection and seen-

760

UNITED STATES V. WORKMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

rity of the department, under the guarantee of a just indemnification when the general treasury should be unembarras 3ed," and these representations are evidently put forth as
considerations which influenced the granting power in acceding to the application Qf the grantees, and in making the
grant for their own benefit and that of their families.
I. All that was necessary having been considered and
examined, the recital in effect then is, that the governor, in
the exercise of the powers with which he was invested, decided to execute a real sale and perpetual alienation of the
mission in question to the original grantees, "with all the
appurtenances recognized as thereunto belonging, consisting
of lands, improvements, real estate, or self-moving property."
Principal conditions were: 1. That the grantees-should pay
to the creditors of the mission the amounts presented against
it, and properly proved within the period of two years. And
2. That they should thereafter and forever provide for the
support of the father minister residing at the mission, and
for the preservation of divine worship. Authenticity of the
grant was proved before the commissioners by the testimony
of one Nicholas A. Den, who testified that he was acquainted
with the handwriting both of the governor and that of the
secretary appearing on the document, and that the respective
signatures were true and genuine. Evidence to show a compliance with the principal conditions is entirely wanting, or
that the grantees ever went into the possession of the property under the grant. Grant bears date on the eighth day
of June, 1846, but it is accompanied by a proclamation, signed
by the governor, which, from its contents, though without
date, must have been written at least a month later. Lastnamed document recites that the forces of the United States
were then in the occupation of the towns of Monterey,
Sonoma, San Francisco, and other frontier places north of
the department, "where already waves the flag of the stars."
Our forces took possession of Monterey on the seventh day
of July, 1846, and the governor of the department well knew
when that event occurred, for on that day the Mexican
forces fled from that city, and never afterwards had posses-

Dec. 1863.]

UNITED STATES V. WORKMAN.
Opinion of the court.

sion of the place. Commissioners confirmed the claim, and
the United States appealed to the District Court.
III. Deposition of the secretary of the governor was then
taken by the claimant, and the witness ultimately testified,
that there was a written document given to the original
grantees in the form of a title, but he admitted that he could
not recollect the date.
United States resisted the confirmation of the claim upon
several grounds. First, they contended that the grant was
antedated and fraudulent. Secondly, that the evidence introduced to establish its authenticity was incompetent and
insufficient to justify a finding in favor of the claimants.
Thirdly, that the governor had no authority under Mlexican
law to warrant him. in making the grant, and consequently
that the same was void.
District Court aflirmed the decree of the commissioners,
and the United States appealed to this court. Questions
discussed here are substantially the same as those presented
in the court below, but in the view taken of the case, it will
only be necessary to examine the third proposition, as we
are all of the opinion that the sale was made and the grant
issued without any pretence of authority.
IV. Ample authority was conferred upon the Governor of
California to grant vacant lands belonging to the Supreme
Government. Such authority was derived from the colonization law of the eighteenth of August, 1824, and the regulations of the twenty-first of November, 1828, as has been
affirmed by repeated decisions of this court. IBut all of those
decisions proceed upon the ground that the authority conferred is limited and restricted to the granting of unoccupied
public land. Grants under those laws were required to be
made subject to the approval of the Departmental Assembly,
and consequently unless such approval was obtained, the title
was not regarded as perfect and complete. Public establishments of the department could not be granted under those
laws, nor even lands which were in the lawful possession
and occupancy of persons claiming provisional title under
tha government. Repeated decisions of this court have an-

UTNITED STATES V. WORKMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

thorized these conclusions, and in United States v. Vallejo, 1
Black, 541, it was expressly held that the Spanish system of
disposing of public lands differed so widely from that provided for by the Mexican law of the eighteenth of August,
1824, and the regulations of the twenty-first of November,
1828, that the former system must be regarded as repealed,
on account of the inconsistency and repugnancy of the latter
system. Effect cf that ruling is to regard all prior regulations upon the subject as inoperative, but the court went
farther, and held that those laws were the only laws of the
Mexican Congress passed on the subject of granting the
public lands which were in force in that department, with
the exception of those relating to the missions and towns,
which will presently be considered. All pretence of authority, therefore, may be considered at an end, unless it can be
found in the laws relating to the missions, or can be regarded
as conferred by the Departmental Assembly, as is assumed
in the grant. Appointment of the governor of a territory
emanated from the Supreme Government, and all his powers
were derived from the same source. Departmental Assembly consisted of seven members, who were elected from districts previously assigned by law. Many duties were devolved
upon the governor, and also upon the Departmental Assembly, where each was required to act independently of the
other. But other duties were prescribed, in the performance
of which the governor and the Assembly were requirecd to
act in concurrence. In the latter class the governor could
not act separately, though in some instances it was competent for the Assembly to act in his absence. United States v.
Osio, 23 How., 285. Powers of the governor as such emanated from the same source as that from which he derived
his commission, and there is no reason whatever to conclude
that his authority over the public lands or public establishments of the department could be enlarged or diminished by
the Departmental Assembly. 1 Arrillago Recop., pp. 202210.
Supreme Government, on the seventeenth day of Augast,
1833, issued its decree secularizing the missions in California-

Dec. 1863.]

UNITED STATES V. WORIKMAN.

Opinion of the court.

Intention of that decree was to make a radical change in regard to the temporalities of the missions, by taking -their
management and control from the priests, and vesting them
in the civil authorities.
I V. Congress of Mexico, on the third day of November,
1833, passed an act authorizing the executive to adopt all
measures which should secure their colonization, and for
that purpose gave authority to use the property donated to
pious uses, in order to facilitate the operations of the commissions and the transportation of families. Mexican Government also published another decree of secularization,
on the sixteenth day of April, 1834, which provided that the
missions of the republic should be secularized; that they
should be converted into curacies, the limits of which were
to be designated by the governors of the territories in which
the missions were situated. Assembly, on the ninth day of
August, 1834, adopted certain provisional rules for secularizing the missions and converting them into pueblos; but
those rules were made subject to the approval of the Supreme Government. Additional regulations were also promulgated by the governor, on the third of November, in the
same year, upon the same subject; but on the seventh day
of November of the following year, the Supreme Government issued a decree suspending the Secularization Act until
the curates should take possession of their parishes, as had
been provided by the second section of the act. Bishop of
California, on the seventh day of November, 1840, addressed
a petition to the Supreme Government, containing eight
special requests, which in effect contemplated the suspension
or repeal of the Act of Secularization. Corresponding decree of the President is dated on the same day, and directs
that a general order be issued to the governor for the restoration, by means of the subaltern authorities, without delay
or impediment, of the possessions and property used by them
under their administration for the conversion of the heathen.
Proof is entirely wanting to show that that order was evei
annulled. On the contrary, the clear presumption is that it

764

UNITED STATES V. WORKMAN.

[Sup. Ct-

Opinion of the court.

remained in full force at the treaty of peace between the
two countries.
VI. Constitution of 1824 did not define the powers of
Departmental Assemblies or Territorial Deputations, as they
were always called while that constitution remained in force.
During the administration of Santa Anna, on the twelfth
day of June, 1843, the Mexican Government adopted a new
organic act, known as the "Bases Organica." Title seven
defines the powers of the Departmental Assemblies, and the
provision, among other things, contains the following, to wit:
"To decree what is useful and conformable respecting the
acquisition, alienation, and exchanges of the property that
may belong to the community of the department. With regard
to the alienation of lands, the existing laws shall be observed."
Those bodies were vested, as will be seen, with the power
of acquiring, alienating, and so changing the property belonging to the department; btit it is not perceived that they
could confer any power upon the governor even upon that
subject, while in relation to the alienation of lands, that power
was expressly restricted to what was conferred by the laws
of colonization, which, as is now well known, was to approve
or disapprove of a grant when regularly made by the governor
under those laws.
VII. First decree of the Departmental Assembly, under
Governor Pio Pico, upon the subject of the missions, is dated
on the twenty-first day of April, 1845, and recites that the
government will demand exact information as to their debts,
and will suspend until a convenient time the granting of the
lands immediately contiguous to the missions. Second decree bears date on the twenty-eighth day of May following,
and provides for calling together the Indians of certain missions therein named, by means of a proclamation; and also,
if they fail to reunite within one month from the day of the
publication of the proclamation, that they should be considered as notified that the missions would be declared
vacant, and be disposed of as might best suit the general
good of the department. Decree of the twenty-eighth of
October, 1845, authorized the sale to the highest bidder of

Dec. 1863.]

UNITED STATES V. WORKMAN.

Opinion of the court.

certain missions therein named, which, however, did not
include the one in question. Provision was also made in
the same decree for renting the other missions, under certain stringent regulations. Third decree was passed on the
thirtieth of March, 1846, and purports to authorize the Departmental Government in carrying into effect the object
specified in the second decree, so far as respects the mi.ssions
ol San Gabriel, San Luis Rey, San Diego, and any others in
similar circumstances, to act in such a manner as may appear
most conducive to prevent their total ruin. Reference is
doubtless made in the grant to this last-named decree, as the
foundation of the authority for making the sale. Information, however, had reached the Supreme Government long
before any such pretended authority was exercised, that the
governor of the department was devising measures for the
sale of these properties. Effective measures were immediately taken to prevent any such abuse of the powers committed to his charge. Those measures consisted in the order
of the President suspending all proceedings respecting the
alienation of the property till the determination of the Supreme Government, and was accompanied by directions
given to the Departmental Government to make a report of
all the particulars.
Evidence that these preventive measures were taken, consists of a despatch from the Minister of Industry and Public
Instruction, addressed directly to the governor, in which
those facts are very formally and fully stated.
VIII. Even suppose such a power had been conferred upon
the governor by the Supreme Government, still it was clearly
competent to withdraw the power and forbid its exercise; but
the truth is, the governor never had any such power. Despatch of the Minister of Industry and Public Instruction was
not issued to recall a power previously conferred, but to prevent the attempt to exercise a power never possessed.
Reference is also made to the despatch of the Minister of
War, of the tenth of MXiarch, 1846, and also to the proclamation of the President, of the thirteenth of March, in the
same year, as conferring such an authority; but it is so obvi.

UNITED STATES V. CAREY JONES.

[Slip. C1L

Statement of the case.

ous that neither of the documents will bear any such construction that we do not think it necessary to enter into any
argument upon the subject, and only advert to it that it may
not appear to have been overlooked.
The decree of the District Court is therefore reversed, and
the cause remanded, with directions to
DISMISS THE PETITION.

NOTE.

At the same time with the preceding case, and argued
with it on one brief, another case, relating to a different
mission, that of San Luis Rey, in the County of San Diego,
but so far as respects the law governed by the same principles, was decided. It was thus :
UNITED STATES V.

CAREY JONES.

The Governor of California had no power, on the 18th May, 1846, either
under the colonization law of August 18, 1824, and the regulations of
November 21, 1828, nor yet under the despatch of March 10, 1846,
from Tornel, Minister of War, nor under the proclamation of Mariano Paredes y Arillaga, President ad interim of the Mexican Republic, dated March 13, 1846,-these two last made in anticipation of the
invasion of California by the forces of the United States-nor under
any other authority, to make a valid sale and grant of the mission of
San Luis Rey.
LIKE the preceding case, this one came before the court upon
appeal from a decree of the District Court of the United States
for the Southern District of California, and arose originally upon
a petition for the confirmation of a land claim, before the Board
of Commissioners appointed under the act of the 3d M farch, 1851.
The grant in this case was thus:
'PIO PIcO, CONSTITUTIONAL GOVER-NOR, &c.

" Whereas, Don Antonio Jose Cot and Don Jose Antonio Pico have presented themselves to this government, petitioning that it shall give them as
a legitimate possession the mission of San Luis Rey and the rancho of Palas,
with thA lands which pertain to them, in payment of $2000 in money, and
$437 and four reals in grain, with which they have assisted the government
in its exigencies; they both obligating themselves to satisfy, in every desoription of produce, the debt of the said mission of San Luis Rey in the

