Dec. 1863.1

ORCHARID V.

HUGHES.

Opinion of the court.

In granting the new trial the District Court seems to have
been governed by two reasons: -First,because the statutes
of Iowa prescribed that a second trial may be had of course,
in actions brought for the recovery of real estate; and
Secondly, because the court below had the power, after the
cause was presented there by a mandate from this court and
the judgment of reversal entered, to hold that the cause stood
on the same footing that it would have done, had the District Court entered the judgment for the defendant before
the cause was brought up to this court. And in that case it
is true the District Court could have granted a new trial at
its discretion.
The 24th section of the Judiciary Act of 1789 governs the
practice in cases brought up and reviewed in this court. It
is bound to give such judgment as the court below ought to
have given, and the law directs that a mandate shall be sent
down to have the judgment entered as final in the lower
courts, when it is for the defendant below, as here. The
District Court had no power to set aside the judgment of the
Supreme Court, its authority extending only to executing
the mandate.*
We order that a writ of mandamus do issue to the Circuit
Court of the District of Iowa, commanding it to vacate and
erase the order granting a new trial in the aforesaid cause;
and that a judgment be entered in conformity to the mandate
of this court.
ORDER ACCORDINGLY.

ORCHARD V. HUGHES.

Id. v. Id.
I. It is no defence to a suit for debt that the debt arose from the receipt of
the bills of a bank that was chartered illegally and for fraudulent purposes, and that the bills were void in law, and finally proved worthless
in fact; the bills themselves having been actually current at the time
the defendant received them, and they not having proved worthless in
his hands, nor he being bound to take them back from persons to whom
he had paid them away.

* Ex parte Sibbald, 12 Peters, 492.

ORCHARD

v).

HUGHES.

[Slip. Ct.

Statement of the case.
2. When a bond is given for appeal in a bill of foreclosure of mortgage, the
condition of the bond being simply that the appellant shall pay costs and
damages, it does not operate to stay a sale of mortgaged premises already
decreed.
8. Independently of a rule of court, execution cannot issue in a decree for
foreclosure of a mortgage in chancery for the balance left due after a
sale of the mortgaged premises (Noonan v. Lee, 2 Black, 499, recognized); and this (by opinion, however, of but a majority of the court),
applies to the Territorial Court of Nebraska, as much as to the courts
of States organized under the Judiciary Act of 1789.

THESE were, in form, two causes; though in fact, two

branches of one case, which were heard and disposed of
together; both of them coming here on appeal from the Supreme Court of the Territory of N~ebraska, to which tribunal
they had been taken by appeal from the District Court for
the same Territory.
A suit had been brought by Hughes, the appellee in this
court, against Orchard, the appellant, to foreclose a mortgage.
Orchard set up by way of answer, that a part of the consideration of the mortgage consisted of the bills of the Bank
of Tekama, of the Territory of N~ebraska; that this bank,
though chartered by the legislature of that Territory, had
never been approved of by Congress, as was necessary that it
should be, in order to be legally chartered; that the bank was
never organized; that it was a device to deceive the public;
that its notes were fraudulently issued and put in circulation
without authority of law, and were of no validity or value
whatever. But the answer showed that the bills were current and in circulation at the time they were received by him,
and did not state in any sufficient way that they had proved
worthless in Orchard's hands, or that they had ever been
tendered back either to or by him. On the contrary, it set
forth that many of them had been paid away to his creditors;
some to a certain Davis, and that they had turned out to be
worthless in his hands. To this answer there was a demurrer;
upon which the District Court gave judgment for the complainant, so deciding that the defence set up was insufficient.
A sale of the premises was accordingly decreed. After this
decree Orchard gave bond for an appeal to the Supreme

Dec. 1863.]

ORCHARD V. HUGHES.
Opinion of the court.

Court-the condition of the bond being that "he shall diligently prosecute said appeal, and shall pay all costs and damages that may be awarded against him." The sale went on
under a master's direction, and on the coming in of his report,
Orchard filed several exceptions to it. Most of these were
on matters which were the subject of discretion with the
court below, as that the sale had not taken place at the exact
hour advertised, but an hour or more afterwards. The Supreme Court considered none of the exceptions of force, and
confirmed the proceedings. Among the proceedings confirmed, was the master's report, which showed that the mortgaged premises sold for $519.23 less than the mortgage debt; and
the decree of the District Court,which orderedthat execution should
issuefor this amount and interest.
On appeals here the following among other points were
raised:
1. How far the illegal character of the bank, and the final
worthlessness of its notes, were a defence to the bill of foreclosure.
2. Whether the sale was properly proceeded with in the
District Court after Orchard had given a bond for appeal.
3. Whether an order for execution for the balance ($519.23)
due on the mortgage was rightly made; and whether the
fact that the Supreme Court of lNebraska Territory, which
made it, was so organized under the organic law, by the'
legislature of the Territory, and not by the Judiciary Act of
1789, that a precedent binding courts established by the act,
did not apply to one like the Supreme Court of the Territory
aforesaid.
Messrs. Woolworth and Rernan for the appellant, Orchard;
.Messrs. -Redick and Carlisle, contra.
Mr. Justice TELSON delivered the opinion of the court:
1. The fatal defect in -boththe answer and the proofs is,
that, admitting every allegation against the legality of the
bank charter, and of the worthlessness of the paper issued
by the bank, Orchard, the maker of the note and of the mortgage, has not been the sufferer. The bills constituting a por-

ORCHARD V. H'UGHES.

[Sup. CL

Opinion of the court.

tion of the consideration of the note, he used in payment of
his debts, while they were current in the community, and he
has not taken them back, either, voluntarily, assuming that
he might have done so, and set up the fact as a defence to
the note; nor has he been subjected to the repayment of the
debts he discharged by the use of them; and even were he
permitted to succeed in reducing the present demand by
rebating the bank bills received by him, it does not appear
that he is under any obligation to account for that amount to
the creditor or creditors to whom he paid them. The defendant, therefore, is not in a condition to contest the several
questions raised and discussed on the argument in respect to
the power of the legislature to pharter the bank, or the conduct of the parties concerned in its organization, or in keeping up its credit for the purpose of imposing upon and
defrauding the community by means of the circulation of
its paper. The decree, therefore, of the court below was
right, and should be affirmed.
2. The appeal from the decree of the court below directing
a sale of the mortgaged premises, did not operate to stay the
proceedings, as the bond given was simply a bond for costs.
The complainants below, therefore, proceeded to execute the
decree by a sale of the land, under the direction of a master,
and on the coming in of his report of the sale, certain exceptions were taken to the report and overruled, and a decree of
confirmation entered. An appeal was taken by the defendants below from that decree, and has been argued in connection with the appeal from the previous and principal one.
This second appeal seems to be a necessity from a very early
decision of this court in the case of a foreclosure of a mortgage, that the decree in favor of the complainant, ndjudging
a sale of the mortgaged premises, was a final decreq within
the meaning of the Judiciary Act authorizing an appeal. We
have accordingly looked into the second record in connection
with the first, and are satisfied that there is no well-grounded
objection to the report of the master, and that the court below
was right in confirming it.
But there is a clause in this decree that is in conflict with

Dec. 1863.]

ORCHARD V. HUGHES.

Opinion of the court.

a recent decision of this court. According to the report of
the master, the sale of the mortgaged premises did not cover
the debt, but left a balance of $519.23. The decree of confirmation orders execution to issue for this amount with
interest.
It was held by this court in Noonan v. Lee,* in an appeal
from a decree in a foreclosure of a mortgage in chancery by
the District Court of Wisconsin, with Circuit Court powers,
in which execution was directed for the balance of the debt,
that this part of the decree was erroneous, inasmuch as the
equity courts of the United States, under the Constitution,
are governed by the practice of the Court of Chancery in
England, modified by acts of Congress and the rules of the
Supreme Court: and as no execution could issue according
to the practice in the English Chancery for this balance, and
no rule had been adopted in this court authorizing it, this
part of the decree was reversed.
The decree in the present case was rendered in a territorial
court, and it has been contended that this court is not a court
under the Constitution, nor organized under the Judiciary
Act of 1789, but by the legislature of the Territory under the
organic law, and whose jurisdiction is regulated by that law,
and therefore that the decision in the case of Noonan v. Lee
does not apply.t Of this opinion are Messrs. Justices Swayne,
Field, and myself But a majority of the court are of opinion
that the case is governed by the previous one. This part of
the decree is therefore reversed, and the residue affirmed. $
DECREE ACCORDINGLY.
* 2 Black, 499-501.
t American Insurance Co. v.Canter, 1 Peters, 546.

By rule of court, adopted since this decision, execution may now issue.
See ante, p. iii.

