Dec. 1863.]

DERMoTT V. WALLACH.
Statement of the case.

DEBmoTT

v. WALLACH.

'Where a lease at $8000 a year, payable in monlhly instalments, stipulated
that if the tenant underlet or attempted to remove any of the goods on
the premises without the landlord's consent, then, at the sole option
term
ae should cease, AwD mono:ovn , in
and election of the landlord,
either of said cases, "one whole year's rent, to wit, the rent of $3000
over and above all such rents" as have already accrued, shall be and is
hereby reserved and shall immediately accrue and become due and
owing, and shall and may be levied on by distress and sale of all such
goods as may be found on the premises. .Eeld,--in a case where a remoral
and consequent levy had been made while the lease had yet more than a year
to run-that although the clause in the lease was obscure, the $3000 was
",rent," intended to be secured in advance and in a gross sum instead
of in the monthly shape, and was not a penalty above and independent
of the other and usual rents.

MRS. DEImOTT leased to Dexter a hotel, for three years from
1st October, 1855, to be extended to five, at the option of the
tenant. The rent-was $3000 a year, payable in monthly sums
of $250. It was expressly stipulated between the parties,
and made a condition, that if the tenant should assign or
underlet the premises without the written consent of the landlord, or should remove or attempt to remove any of his goods or
chattels (except the same be replaced of equal value) from
the premises without a like consent, then, and in either case
and event, at the "sole option and election" of the landlord,
the term should cease, and the landlord might immediately
re-enter upon the premises and expel the tenant, Awmo0 OvER, in either of said cases, or the happening of the events,
" one whole year's rent, to wit, the rent of $3000 over and above
all such rents (that is to say, all such of the rents hereinbefore
reserved to be paid on the first day of each month during
.as shall have then already accrued)
the said term ......
shall be and by these presents is reserved to be paid by the said
Dexter to the said Dermott, and shall immediately thereupon
accrue and become due and owing from him to her, and shall
and may be levied by distress and sale of all such goods and chattels as may be found on the premises."
Dexter the tenant took possession, and afterwards executed

DERMOTT V. WALLACH.

[Sup. ot.

Statement of the case.

two deeds of trust of the goods and chattels in the hotel to
the defendant, Wallach, to secure certain promissory notes.
One of the notes not being paid at maturity, Wallach advertised the goods and chattels for sale, and was proceeding with
the sale when Mrs. Dermott levied a distress upon them for
$3000. This was on the 18th of May, 1857, about a year andfive
months before the lease would expire. The ordinary rent had been
all punctually paid to the 1st of .May, the month in which the distress was made; so that no rent of the ordinary kind was due
at the time of the distress. Wallach having replevied the
goods seized, the defendant avowed; setting up, by way of
justification for the taking, the attempt to remove them from
the premises, and alleging that by such removal one year's
rent had accrued. There were two pleas .to the avowry.
I. No rent in arrear. 10. No demand for the rent.
The substantial question was whether this $3000 was
"rent," or was a penalty, that is to say, whether the clause
meant that in the event of a removal, or attempted removal,
Mrs. Dermott might get a year's rent in advance, or whether
it meant that she should have a sum of money equivalent to
a year's rent "over and above" all rents, by way of penalty.
The Circuit Court for the District of Columbia, in which
the case arose, gave judgment for the plaintiff. On error
here, the question was the same as below and as already stated.
Messrs. Carlisleand Coxfor the trustee, the defendant in error:
1. The authorities show that whenever it is doubtful what
the intent of the parties was, or where there may be breaches
of the agreement of different degrees of importance, and a
gross sum is payable for any breach, however unimportant, or
where the damage is capable of being certainly known, the
sum will be treated as a penalty, whatever the parties may
have called it. Calling the thing rent will not make it so.
On the other hand, where it is impossible to estimate the
damage, or a rate of forfeiture proportioned to the damage is
reserved, it is considered liquidated damages, or, sometimes,
an increased rent, or penal rent.*
* See the cases cited in 2 Greenleaf on Evidence,

258 and 259.

Dec. 1863.]

DEitmoTT v. "WALLAcir.
Argument for the tenant.

The present comes within the first class of cases. The
removal of the most trifling articles of furniture, and that.
but a week before the expiration of the lease, would, according to the terms of the instrument, entail upon the tenant the
forfeiture of the whole sum of $3000, as well as of his lease,
equally with the removal of the whole contents of the house
at the commencement of the term. The removal may be
repeated a dozen times, and the right of Mrs. Dermott accrues
as often as the removal takes place. It is apparent, too, in
this case, that the utmost damage which the plaintiff in error
.could have suffered was the loss of about two months' rent,
for which she claims a whole year's.
2. If this was a case of penalty, the plaintiff in error had
no right to distrain for it.
Before the statute 8 and 9 William IE,* a party might
obtain judgment at common law, for the whole amount of
the penalty of a bond. But even then the distinction between
penalties and liquidated damages was known; and in the
former case, courts of equity would restrain proceedings at
law, and direct an issue of quantum indemnyfiatus. And now,
in the common law courts, a judgment can only be had for
the actual damage.t
If a party cannot obtain judgment for a penalty, d fortiori,
he cannot distrain for it. The right of distress, which is a
right to take the law into one's own hands, is exceptional,
and not to be favored. It is of the essence of this right that
the rent or service distrained for should be certain in amount
and time of payment, and therefore distress was never allowed
where the services due were uncertain, in either respect. 1
Nor can agreement of the parties make any difierence in this
respect. No case can be found in which a distress for a
penalty has been sustained.
8. By the common law, where a nomine pcenm is given for
non-payment of rent, the lessor must demand the rent before
he can be entitled to the penalty; and where a right of distress is given by agreement, a demand is necessary to entitle a
* 0. 11, J 8.

t See Comyn, Landlord and Tenant, 571, Bk. IV, ch. 2.
J Bradby on Distress, 17.

DERMOTT V. WALLACH.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

party to distrain. This is ancient law. Grobham v. Thonaborough, in Hobart's Reports,* is in point. Grobham there
brought debt of 4100 against Thornborough, on a lease, X60
being for rent, and £40- a nomine pence of 8 shillings a day
for non-payment," for ahundred days. Judgmentwas given
for him for the £60 rent. "But," says Lord Hobart, "for
the £40 pain, it was adjudged against the plaintiff, because
he laid no actual demand, without which a pain is not forfeited."
By parity of reasoning, even if a right of distress existed
in this case, there must have been a previous demand, either
to replace the goods alleged to be removed, or to pay the
$3000. The tenant was entitled to a reasonable time to
replace the goods. UJntil such time elapsed without their
being replaced, and until demand made, no right accrued.
Mr. Brent, contra.
Mr. Justice tELSON delivered the opinion of the court:
The case turns mainly upon the question whether the $3000
mentioned in the lease, accruing on the happening of this
event, is rent or a penalty.
The argument on behalf of the tenant is, that by the true
construction of the lease, the landlord, on the happening of
the event, may at his option consider the term as ended, and
re-enter, and in addition distrain for the $3000, and hence
the term having ended, or it being in the power of the landlord to end it, the sum reserved cannot be regarded as rent,
but as a penalty, as the relation of landlord and tenant has
ceased.
We do not agree to this construction. Although the wording of the clause occasions some obscurity and hesitation,
yet, regarding the sense and substance of it, there can be
little doulft about its meaning. It will be observed, that if
the tenant assigns or uinderlets, the term ceases at the option
of the landlord. So in the event of the removal or attempt
to remove the goods. Now the words, "at the sole option
* Page 82r

Dec. 1863.]

DERMe2T V. WALLACH.
Opinion of the court.

and election" of the landlord, are superfluous, if intended to
be limited to this breach of the covenant. All that was
necessary was the inhibition to assign, underlet, or remove
the goods, and the right of re-entry in case of breach. Without giving the option or election, the landlord had the right
to waive the forfeiture. Receiving rent with knowledge of
the breach is a waiver. So, levying a distress for the rent, or
in any other way consenting to a continuance of the term.
These words, we are of opinion, are entitled to an influence
in the construction of this part of the lease beyond these
covenants of forfeiture, and may aid in the construction and
meaning of the clause which provides for the payment of the
year's rent in advance. And the true meaning we think is,
that the landlord may at his option consider the term at an
end, and re-enter in the events mentioned, or may at his
option (understood), have the year's rent in advance.
We do not think the word "moreover," in the connection
found, necessarily means the rent in advance, in addition to
the previous remedies mentioned, but rather an alternative
remedy.
These covenants are inserted in a lease for the better security of the rent. The one in question simply makes the rent
payable in advance, instead of by instalments, on the happening of the event stated. It would have been not only
strange but unreasonable to have made this stipulation as
contended for on the part of the plaintiff, to take effect at the
moment the term ceased, or might be put an end to by the
landlord. The words should be very clear and controlling
to lead to such an interpretation.
It is argued that the reservation of this $3000 rent in
advance should be regarded as a penalty, for the reason that
the event would happen on the removal of a single article of
goods, and that the remedy is out of reasonable proportion
to the injury. But the answer is, the covenant against removal necessarily embraced all the goods on the premises that
furnished security for the rent, and it is not for the tenant
to set up as a defence to its enforcement, that the breach is

not as great as it might have been. The removal of a single
VOL. 1.

5

RYAN

v.

BINDLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

article is a wrong which he is not permitted to take advantage
of, and besides, there is no hardship in the case, for if he
desired to remove any particular article, the covenant permits it on replacing goods of equal value.
The removal of the goods took place on the 18th of May,
1857, some year and five months before the expiration of the
lease, so that practically the reservation of the rent in advance,
on the event in the lease happening, works but simple justice
to all parties. It became the substitute for the rent reserved
payable monthly. If the tenant had brought about the event
by the removal of the goods within a year of the termination
of the lease, whether or not he might have had a remedy to
abate the excess, we need not discuss.
JUDGMENT REVERSED,

and cause remanded for a venire de

novo.

RYAN v. BINDLEY.
1. Where a declaration claims a sum not sufficiently large to warrant error
to this court, but where the plea pleads a set-offof a sum so considerable
that the excess between the sum claimed and that pleaded as a set-off
would do so,-the amount in controversy is not the sum claimed but the
sum in excess, in those circuits where by the law of the State adopted
in the Circuit Court, judgment may be given for the excess as aforesaid.
For example: A declaration in assumpsit claimed one thousand dollars damages,-a sum insufficient to give the Supreme Court jurisdiction: more
than two thousand being required for that purpose. The plea pleaded a
set-off offour thousand, and by the laws of Ohio, adopted in the Federal
courts sitting in that State, judgment might be given for the three thousand in excess, if the set-off was proved. Held, that three thousand,
and not one thousand, was the amount in dispute; and accordingly, that
the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court attached.
2. The rules of evidence prescribed by the laws of a State being rules of
decision for the Federal courts while sitting within the limits of such
State, they must be obeyed even though they violate the ancient laws
of evidence so far as to make the parties to the action witnesses in their
own cause; herein adopting a practice in opposition to a specific rule by
the Federal court for the circuit.

THE Judiciary Act provides * that final judgments and decrees in civil actions and suits in equity in:a CircuitCourt, when
* a 2a

