BAKER V. GEE.

Dec. 1868.]

Statement of the case.

BAKER V. GEE.
1. Under the act of Congress of June 10, 1852, giving to the State of Missouri
certain lands for railroad purposes, and the act of that State of September 20, 1852, accepting them and making provision in regard to them,
the location of the lands was not fixed within the meaning of those acts
by the mere location of the road; nor was it fixed until the railroad
company caused a map of the road to be recorded in the cffice for
recording deeds in the county where the land was situated; this sort of
location being the kind required by the last act.
2. 'Where Congress gives lands to a State for railroad purposes and for "no
other," and the State granting the great bulk of them to such purposes
allows settlements by pre-emption, where improvement and occupancy
had been made on the lands prior to the date of the grant by Congress,
and since continued; a purchaser from the railroad company of a part
which the State had thus opened to pre-emption cannot object to the
act of the State in having thus appropriated the part; the railroad company having, by formal acceptance of the bulk of the land under the
same act which opened a fractional part to pre-emption, itself waived
the right to do so. The United States as donor not objecting, nobody
can object.
ERROR to the

Circuit Court for the District of Missouri,

the case being thus:
On the 10th June, 1852, Congress, by statute,* granted
to the State of Missouri, to aid in building railroads from
Hannibal to St. Joseph, the right of way through the public
lands, and every alternate section designated by even numbers for six sections in width on each side of said roads.
The statute directed that "a copy of the ?oeation of the roads,
made under the direction of the legislature," should be forwarded to the proper local land offices and General Land
Office at Washington; and that the lands thus given should
be disposed of by the State for the purposes contemplated,
and for "no other."
On the 20th September of the same year, the legislature
of Missouri, by an act passed to accept the bounty of Congress,t required that the lands should be selected by the
company, under the direction of the governor, and that a
-* 10 Stat. at Large. 9.

t- Session Acts, 1853, p. 15.

BAKER V. GEE.

[Sul). Ct.

Statement of the case.

copy of the "location of the road" should be certified to the
local land offices and the General Land Office, in conformily
with the act of Congress.
One section of the act, the fifth, gave a pre-emption right,
at a price specified to settlers in actual occupancy, and who
had improved the land occupied, prior to the date of the
gift, 10th June, 1852, by Congress; and to a certain extent,
on any land embraced in the grant, provided certain conditions were complied with; among which was that the party
claiming pre-emption should, "within four months from the
date of the location of the lands," file, in the clerk's office of the
Circuit Court of the county in which the land was situated,
a notice to the corporation of the claim. Another section
obliged the company, within one year after their road should
have been located, to file a map or profile of it, and a map of
the land obtained for the use of the road, in the office of the
Secretary of State, and'have recordmade of the lands lying in
each county in the office for recordi'n deeds. The act and all the
grants contained in it were to cease and be void unless the
acceptance of the company should within six months be
filed in the office of the Secretary of State.
On the 23d November, 1857, a further act was passed,
making it the duty of the land agents of the road to file, in
the different counties through which their road passed, a
descriptive list of their lands.
The location of the line and route of the road was made on
the 8th March, 1853, and the acceptance of the company duly
filed with the Secretary of State, on the 17th of the same
month; but there was no proof of the time when the lands were
actually located, nor any proof that descriptive lists were ever
filed in the different counties until after the passage of the
act of 1857.
In this state of the law and facts, one Gee having entered,
in 1849, upon such part of one of the sections as the act of
Missouri opened to pre-emption, and complied with the several
conditions,-such as occupancy, &c., prior to the gift by Congress,-he instituted, on the 3d of January, 1854, the proper
proceedings to establish his right to purchase the land. He

Dec. 1863.]

I~ec. 868.]BARER
v. GEE.
Statement of the case.

was denied, however, the right, on the ground that he had
not made his claim in due season.
In the meantime one Baker purchased the land fiom the
railroad company, and, setting up a title under that purchase,
brought the present suit, ejectment, against Gee, to recover
the land which the latter claimed by right of pre-emption,-a sort of title which in Missouri is recognized as sufficient to
maintain or defend suit in ejectment,-the ground of Baker's
claim being that Gee was obliged to show that he gave the
notice required by the fifth section of the Missouri act of
September 20, 1852, within four months of the location of the
road; such location, as Baker contended, having been a location of the lands also; the whole region there having long
been surveyed and subdivided by the United States; the sections designated by even numbers already laid down on the
public maps; and the location of all the lands granted being
made so soon as the railroad itself-which location was the
rule and exponent of this also-was definitively fixed and
marked on maps by the State. When this was done nothing
additional, it was argued, could by intendment be necessary
to give precision to the site of the lands,. or to render their
location more certain or more easy of ascertainment. The
court below, however, was not of the opinion, and ruled "that
the location of the land in question by the Hannibal and St.
Joseph Railroad Company was not complete, as regarded
this defendant, until the said company caused a map thereof
to be recorded in the office for recording deeds in which the said
land issituated." Verdict and judgment were accordingly
given in favor of the pre-emptor. On error here the correctness of the ruling just mentioned was one point in question ;,
a second point raised and argued being the power of the
State of Missouri, under the act of Congress, which gave the
lands for railroad purposes and for "no other," to open any
part of it to pre-emption purchasers.
31r. Gantfor the purchaserBakcer ; and Mr.Krumfor the preemptor Gee.
Mr. Justice DAVIS, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court:

BAKER V. GEE.

[Sul). CL.

Opinion of the court.

The practical question involved in this case is one of easy
solution. It is this: "When did the right of pre-emption,
under the fifth section of the act of September 20th, cease?"
Manifestly, after four months from the location of the lands.
It is argued that Gee's right was at an end if he did not prove
his claim within four months from the location of the road.
But such a construction would render valueless a wise provision which the legislature of Missouri, in the exercise of an
enlightened liberality, had conferred oil a deserving class of
people. It is not probable that a man whose necessities compelled him to claim the benefits of a pre-emption law, living
in an interior county, away from the local land offices, would
be correctly informed even of the location of the route of a
railroad, and he certainly could not know what lands would
belong to the company, unless he knew the exact line the
road had taken. And the legislature, in order to render the
provision for an actual settler a privilege, and not a delusion,
directed the company, within one year after the line of the
road was fixed, to have a map of their lands recorded in the
different counties through which their road passed.
It is said that, owing to the accuracy of the government
surveys, whenever the location of one of these land-grant
roads is settled, it is an easy matter to ascertain the lands
that would belong to it.
If the location of the road was always on section lines, it
would not be difficult to select the even sections within six
miles of each side of the road. But a railroad rarely runs
on straight lines. It makes short curves very often, and frequently runs diagonally across sections. It is well known
that the General Land Office has encountered great difficulties in making correct selections of the lands which the bounty
of Congress has bestowed on the States to aid in works of
internal improvement. The selection is not merely mechanical, but requires skill and familiarity with land plats and surveys. On inquiry of the Commissioner of the General Land
Office, we learn that in this very case, the descriptive lists of
the lands to wliich the road was entitled, were not approved
and signed by the Secretary of the Interior until February

Dec. 1863.]

LEE V. W¥ATSON.
Statement of the case.

10th, 1854, which was more than a month after Gee filed his
claim and accompanying proofs. And to make it more evident that it is not an easy task to make an accurate description
of the lands really granted, we learn further that additional
lists were afterwards certified to the State, in aid of said
railroad, from time to time, and as late as the 1-5th of November, 1859.
It is contended that the legislature of Missouri had no
power to grant the privileges of pre-emption. If this was a
contest between the United States and the State of Missouri,
the question of power would be a proper subject for examination. But the United States are not complaining, and no
other party has a right to complain. If the act of the legislature imposed burdens, it nevertheless conferred great privileges, and if any right to object existed, it was waived
when the company filed their acceptance with the Secretary
of State.
It follows that the court below committed no error in
holding "that the location of the land in question by the
Hannibal and St. Joseph Railroad Company was not complete, as regards this defendant, until said company caused
a map thereof to be recorded in the office for recording deeds
in the county in which said land is situated.'"
JUDGMENT AFFIMED WITH COSTS.

LEE ET AL. V. WATSON.
When, to authorize the re-examination of a final judgment of the Cfrcuit
Court, the matter in dispute must exceed the sum or value of $2000,
that amount-if the action be upon a money demand and the general
issue be pleaded-must be stated both in the body of the declaration
and in the damages claimed, or the prayer for judgment. When the
amount alleged to be due in the body of the declaration is less than
$1000, an amendment merely in the matter of amount of damages
claimed, so as to exceed $2000, will not give jurisdiction to this court,
and enable it to review the final judgment in the ease.

LEJ. and Leavit brought assumpsit in the Circuit Court
ror the Kentucky District, against Watson, declaring on a
VOL. 1.

22

