UNITED STATES V. CAREY JONES.

[Slip. C1L

Statement of the case.

ous that neither of the documents will bear any such construction that we do not think it necessary to enter into any
argument upon the subject, and only advert to it that it may
not appear to have been overlooked.
The decree of the District Court is therefore reversed, and
the cause remanded, with directions to
DISMISS THE PETITION.

NOTE.

At the same time with the preceding case, and argued
with it on one brief, another case, relating to a different
mission, that of San Luis Rey, in the County of San Diego,
but so far as respects the law governed by the same principles, was decided. It was thus :
UNITED STATES V.

CAREY JONES.

The Governor of California had no power, on the 18th May, 1846, either
under the colonization law of August 18, 1824, and the regulations of
November 21, 1828, nor yet under the despatch of March 10, 1846,
from Tornel, Minister of War, nor under the proclamation of Mariano Paredes y Arillaga, President ad interim of the Mexican Republic, dated March 13, 1846,-these two last made in anticipation of the
invasion of California by the forces of the United States-nor under
any other authority, to make a valid sale and grant of the mission of
San Luis Rey.
LIKE the preceding case, this one came before the court upon
appeal from a decree of the District Court of the United States
for the Southern District of California, and arose originally upon
a petition for the confirmation of a land claim, before the Board
of Commissioners appointed under the act of the 3d M farch, 1851.
The grant in this case was thus:
'PIO PIcO, CONSTITUTIONAL GOVER-NOR, &c.

" Whereas, Don Antonio Jose Cot and Don Jose Antonio Pico have presented themselves to this government, petitioning that it shall give them as
a legitimate possession the mission of San Luis Rey and the rancho of Palas,
with thA lands which pertain to them, in payment of $2000 in money, and
$437 and four reals in grain, with which they have assisted the government
in its exigencies; they both obligating themselves to satisfy, in every desoription of produce, the debt of the said mission of San Luis Rey in the

Dec. 1868.]

UNITED STATES V. CAREY JONES.

767

Statement of the case.
term of four years; having in consideration the prejudices which the interested parties have bad in the delay of the satisfaction of the said debt,
and that the edifices, which are in a total abandonment, will not pay the! other
creditors: I have come to concede them, &c., in virtue of the faculties willh
which Ifind myself invested, they remaining responsible to satisfy the d-bts

of the said mission, and in order, &c.
"Given in the Government House, in the city of Los Angeles, this 18ch of
May, 1846.
"Pio Pico.
"JosE MARIA MoREwo, Sec. ad int'r."

Governor Pico, who was himself examined, testified that his
signature was genuine. "I placed it there," he said, "as governor, at the time and place where and when the paper purports to be made and dated. It was made for the uses and
purposes, and upon the terms and considerations, therein specified. The money and grain mentioned in said paper were furnished to the government for its uses by the original grantees."
The following questions and answers were made during Governor Pico's examination, as to the source from which he supposed that he derived authority to make the grant:
- Question. Was this grant or sale made in virtue of the general colonization law of the 18th of August, 1824, or of the regulations for colonization of the vacant lands of the territories of 1828, or of any other law or
regulation of the Mexican Government?
I-Answer. The sale was made in virtue of what is expressed in the document itself. The government made the sale by virtue of the authority with
which it considered itself clothed from the Government of Mexico, and upon
the motives and considerations expressed in the document itself.
" Question. Was the authority special?
91Answer. The governor had not received any special authority to make
the particular sale in this case; but the governor had received special instructions to provide means for the defence of the country by extraordinary
efforts and at every sacrifice. [See ante, pp. 753 and 764. REP.]
" Question. Did you consider the approval of the Departmental Assembly
necessar- " 1o make this grant valid?
"Answer. I did not so consider it."

Iv appeared, also, that possession had been taken by the grantees, and that Carey Jones derived title from them. The Board
of Land Commissioners decided in favor of the claim, and the
District Court affirmed the decision, from which decree of affirmance this appeal came.

UNITED STATES V. CAREY JONES.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.

This was a petition for the confirmation of a land claim under
the act of the third of March, 1851, and the case comes before
the court upon appeal from a decree of the District Court of the
United States for the Southern District of California. Appellee
claims the land and property in question as purchaser from Antonio Jos Cot and Jos6 Antonio Pico, who, as he alleges, were
the original grantees of the same under the departmental government of California. Claim is for the mission of San Luis Rey,
situated in the County of San Diego, including the rancho of
Palas, and is bounded as follows: North by Santa Margarita,
east by the Sierra of Rauma, south by the rancho of San Francisco, and west by the sea-shore, excepting all prior valid grants
within the specified boundaries. Title is claimed by virtue of an
alleged sale of the property made under the authority of the
governor of the department. Grant made in pursuance of the
sale is dated at Los Angeles, on the eighteenth day of May, 1846,
and purports to have been executed in payment of two thousand
dollars in money and four hundred and thirty-seven dollars and
fifty cents in grain, with which the grantees had assisted the
government in its exigencies, they obligating themselves to
satisfy the debt of the mission in produce within four years.
I. Concession is accordingly made of the property to the
grantees "in virtue of the faculties with which I find myself
invested," but the governor does not condescend to explain what
those faculties were, or whence they were derived. Whether
the sale was made at private or public sale does not appear, nor
in the view taken of the case is it of any importance to inquire.
Deposition of the governor was taken to prove the authenticity
of the grant, and he testified that his signature appearing in the
paper was his genuine signature. Question was put directly to
the witness, whether the grant was made in virtue of the colonization law of the eighteenth of August, 1824, or of the regulations of the twenty-first of November, 1828, but his answer was
evasive and unsatisfactory. He said the sale was made in virtue
of what is expressed in the document itself; that the government made the sale by virtue of the authority with which it
considered itself clothed from the Supreme Government, and
upon the motives and considerations expressed in the document.
He admitted that the governor had not received aiiy special

Dec. 1863.]

UNITED STATES V. CAREY JONES.

Opinion of the court.

authority to make the particular sale in this case, but endeavored to weaken the force of the admission by adding that he
had received special instructions to provide means for the defence
of the country by extraordinary efforts and every sacrifice.
Instead of claiming that the power to make the grant emanated
from the Departmental Assembly, as was claimed in the preceding case, he stated expressly that he did not think the approval
of that Assembly was necessary to the validity of the grant.
Evidence was also offered by the claimant to show that the original grantees took possession of the property and remained if
possession until it was delivered to the agent of the United States.
II. Commissioners confirmed the claim, and the United States
appealed to the District Court, where the decree of the commissioners was affirmed. Whereupon the United States appealed
to this court. Propositions discussed in the case are substantially the same as those presented in the case just decided, and
for the reasons there suggested it will only be necessary to determine the question of power. When the governor stated in
his deposition that he considered the local government clothed
with authority from the Supreme Government, he doubtless referred to the despatch of the Minister of War, of the tenth ofMarch,
1846, and also perhaps to the proclamation of the President,
which bears date three days later; but the views of the court
have been so decidedly expressed upon that subject in the preceding case, that it seems unnecessary to add anything to what
was then remarked. Suffice it to say, that we are all of the opinion that the documents will bear no such construction, nor do
they afford any substantial support to any such proposition.
Taken as a whole, the case is governed by the same principles
as the preceding case, and we refer to the reasons there given
for our conclusion in this case,-that the governor of the department hadno authority to make the grant.
The decree of the District Court is therefore reversed, and the
cause remanded with directions to

DIsMIss

VOL. L

THE PETITION.

