HO:[UGHTON V. JONES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the ease.

incomplete, is a plain one and one of daily use. He should
suggest diminution, and ask for a certiorari,which is readily
granted when applied for in season.
In view of the whole case, our conclusion is that the motion to dismiss the appeal must be overruled. Effect of the
motion, if granted, would be to leave the decree below in full
force and unreversed, which is a result that at present we are
not prepared to sanction. When the cause comes up upon
the merits, we shall desire to hear the counsel upon the question whether there is any valid decree in the case, and if not,
as to what will be the proper directions to be given in the
cause. Those questions are not involved in the motion to
dismiss, but they will arise when the merits of the case are
examined, and will deserve very careful consideration.
MOTION REFUSED.

HOUGHTON V. JONES.
1. This court will refuse to consider objections to the documentary evidence
of title produced on the trial of an action of ejectment, unless they are
presented in the first instance to the court below, if they are of a kind
which might have been there obviated.
2. By the law of California, deeds conveying real property may be read in
evidence in any action when verified by certificates of acknowledgment, or proof of their execution by the grantors before a notary public.
8. The right to cross-examine a witness is limited to matters stated in his
direct examination.

Tnis was a writ of error to the Northern District of California; the ease being thus:
. By the act of Congress of March 8, 1851, "to ascertain
and settle the private land claims in the State of California,"
it is provided, "that each and every person claiming lands
in California, by virtue of any right or title derived from the
Spanish or Mexican government, shall present the same to
the commissioners," &c., who are directed to examine into
and "decide upon the validity of the said claim." And it is
further declared that "all lands, the claims to which shall

Dec. 1863.]

HO[UGHTON V. JONES.
Statement of the case.

not have been presented to the said commissioners within
two years after the date of the act, shall be deemed, held
and considered as part of the public domain of the United
States."
With this act in force, Mrs. Jones brought ejectment, in
1860, against Houghton and another, for land in Contra Costa
County, in the State of California. She deraigned title from
the Mexican government, through a grant issued in August,
1841, by Juan B. Alvarado, then Governor of the Department
of California, and by sundry mesne conveyances from the
grantees. It did not appear on the trial below that the grant
had ever been laid before the Board of Commissioners, as
required by the act above quoted, or in any way passed on
by it. But no objection was made on the trial to the grant
from this want of presentation to the board, or consideration by it.
One of the conveyances through which the plaintiff, Mirs.
Jones, claimed was read in evidence, on proof of its execution, certified by a notary public. It is necessary, in that connection, to mention that a statute of California, "concerning
conveyances," approved April 16th, 1850, contains the following enactments :*
"SECTION 4. The proof or acknowledgment of every conveyance affecting any real estate shall be taken by some one of the
following officers: 1. If acknowledged or proved within this

State, by some judge or clerk of a court having a seal, or some
notarypublic or justice of the peace of the proper county .....
" SECTION 29. Every conveyance, or other instrument conveying or affecting real estate, which shall be acknowledged, or
proved and certified, as hereint prescribed, may, together with
the certificate of acknowledgment or proof, be read in evidence
without furtherproof."
*First

subdivision of

4"and 29.

- The word in the statute asprintedis "hereinafter;" but that word makes
no proper sense in connection with the subsequent parts of the law; and
the Supreme Court of California has declared that thus printed it is either
an error of the press or a copy of an erroneous enrolment; that the word
chould be "herein," as ] have given it in the text. Mott v. Smith (16 Cal;
fornia, 522).-Rzp

H OUGHTON V. JONES.

[Sul). t

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

The subscribing witness to the deed thus read was in court,
and had been examined by the plaintiff about certain matters, but not about the execution of the deed. The defendant proposed to cross-examine him upon such execution,
which the court would not allow him to do; deciding that
if he wished to examine the witness at all upon a point not
raised in the examination-in-chief, he must call him anew,
and so make him his own witness.
The plaintiff having had judgment, and the defendant
having sued out a writ of error, three questions were now
here made; the first question having been raised on the
argument in this court for the first time in the ease.
1. Whether this want of presentation of the grant at any
time to the Board of Commissioners was fatal to it?
2. Whether the execution of the deed was sufficiently
proved by the laws of California?
3. Whether the court rightly refused to let the defendant
cross-examine the witness in the circumstances stated?
Mr. Carlisle,for plaintiff in.error:
i. The ]angtfage of the statute of March 3, 1851, being
express, it is indispensable that the grant should have been
presented within two years after the date of the act. More
than two years had passed before this suit was brought. No
averment of any presentation is made. No presumptions can
be made to supply that which is a prerequisite of the case,
an indispensable link in the title. The land is, of course,
part of the public domain.
ii. The statute does not dispense with calling the sub.
scribing witness. The point has not yet been decided. Its
language is perhaps not entirely plain.
iii. The rule is not universally adopted that a right to
cross-examine is limited to matters comprised in the examination-in-chief. In some States it prevails; in some it does
not. The rule has not been so settled for California.
PIr H]epburn, contra.

Dec. 1863.]

. .HOUGHTON
V. JONES.
Opinion of the court.

Mr. Justice FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action of ejectment to recover the possession of
certain real property situated in the County of Contra Costa,
in the State of California. The plaintiff below, the defendant in error in this court, deraigned her title from the
Mexican government, through a grant issued in August,
1841, by Juan B. Alvarado, then Governor of the Department
of California, and sundry mesne conveyances from the
grantees. It does not appear from the record that the grant
was ever confirmed by the Board of Land Commissioners
appointed under the act of March 3d, 1851, for the investigation of titles to land in California derived from the Spanish
and Mexican governments, or was ever presented to the
board for its consideration; and it is the absence of any
averment in these particulars which constitutes the first
ground urged by the counsel of the plaintiffs in error for a
reversal of the judgment. His position is, that under the
act of March 3d, 1851, if the grant were not presented within
the period there designated, which period had expired when
this action was commenced, the land was to be deemed a
part of the public domain, and that no presumption is to be
indulged in respect to such presentation in the absence of
any averment on the subject. It is a sufficient answer to this
position, that it does not appear from the record to have been
urged in the court below. It may be that the objection was
not taken from the knowledge of the parties that the grant
had been confirmed, and that proof of the fact could be readily produced. Objections of this kind cannot be heard for
the first time in the appellate court. To entitle objections
to consideration here, they must be presented to the court
below in the first instance, at least if they are of a kind which
might have been there obviated.
Ofthe intermediate conveyances from the grantees, through
which the plaintiff below traced her title, one was produced
and read in evidence, upon proof of its execution by one of
the grantors, furnished by the certificate of a notary public.
Objection was taken to the sufficiency of this proof, counsel
contending that the execution should have been proved by
VOL. I.

45

UNITED STATES

V. MORILLO.

[Sup. CL.

Syllabus.

calling the subscribing witness. The objection is answered
by the statute of California, which expressly provides for the
admission in evidence of conveyances of real property when
verified by certificates of acknowledgment or proof of the
execution by the grantors before certain officers.*
It appears that the subscribing witness to the deed introduced was present in court during the trial, and was examined
with reference to certain matters, but not touching the execution of the deed. The defendant thereupon claimed the
right to cross-examine him with reference to such execution.
The court held that the defendant must, for that purpose,
call the witness, and could not properly make the inquiry
upon the cross-examination. In this particular the ruling
of the court below was correct. The rule has been long
settled, that the cross-examination of a witness must be
limited to the matters stated in his direct examination. If
the adverse party desires to examine him as to other matters,
he must do so by calling the witness to the stand in the subsequent progress of the cause.t
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

UNITED STATES V. MORILLO.
1. When the government does not claim land in California as public land,
this court will not entertain jurisdiction of an appeal by the United.
States from a District Court there under the act of 8d March, 1851, for
the settlement of private land claims: it has no jurisdiction under that
act-nor has the District Court-when the controversy is between individuals wholly.
2. In an appeal by the United States from a decree of one of tnose courts,
where the proceeding below was to have a land title confirmed under
this act of March 8, 1851, an assertion by the counsel of the United
States that the controversy is between individuals wholly, and that the
United States have no interest in the case, is sufficient to satisfy the
court of that-fact so far as respects the United States itself. But it is
* Act of California concerning conveyances, of April 16, 1850, H 4 and 29.

t Philadelphia and Trenton Railroad v. Stimpson, 14 Peters, 461; 1
Greenleaf on Evidence, 445.

