BRIDGE PROPRIETORS V. HTOBOKEN CO.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The court below, therefore, erred in their rulings on the
demurrer, and also on the trial of the issues in fact.

A point is made under the 25th section of the Judiciary Act,
that this court has no jurisdiction to reverse the judgment of
the court below. But the right of the State to these school
sections rests upon acts of Congress, which were set up and
relied on in this case, and the decision of the court below
against it.

The judgment of the court Itelow is reversed, with costs,
and the cause remanded, with directions to enter judgment
overruling the demurrer to plaintiff's replications, and to
issue venire de novo, &c.
JUDGMENT ACCORDINGLY.

THE BRIDGE PROPRIETORS

v.

THE EoBoKEN COMPANY.

1. Where a statute of a State creates a contract, and a subsequent statute is
alleged to impair the obligation of that contract, and the highest court
of law or equity in the State construes thefirst statute in such a manner
as that the second statute does not impair it, whereby the second statute
remains valid under the Constitution of the United States, the validity
of the second statute is "Idrawn in question," and the decision is "in
favor" of its validity, within the meaning of the 25th section of the
Judiciary Act of 1789. This court may accordingly, under the said section, re-examine and reverse the judgment or decree of the State court
given as before said. The case distinguished from The CommercialBank
v. Buckingham's Executors (5 Howard, 317). GRIER, J., dissenting.
2. A party relying on this court for re-examination and reversal of the decree
or judgment of the highest State court, under the 25th section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, need not set forth specially the clause of the Constitution of the United States on which he relies. If the pleadings make
a case which necessarily comes within the provisions of the Constitution,
it is enough.
8. The statute of the legislature of New Jersey, passed A. D. 1790, by which
that State gave power to certain commissioners to contract with any
persons for the building of a bridge over the Hackensack River; and by
the same statute enacted that the "said contract should be valid on the parties contracting as well as on the State of Nw Jersey;" and that it should
not be "lawful" for any person or persons whatsoever to erect "any
other bridge over or across the said river for ninety nine years,"'-is a
contract, whose obligation the State can pass no law to impair.

Dec. 1863.]

BRIDGE PROPRIETORS V. HOBOKEN CO.

117

Statement of the case.
4. A railway viaduct, if nothing but a structure made so as to lay iron rails
thereon, upon which engines and cars may be moved and propelled by
steam, not to be connected with the shore on either side of sat.i river,
except by a piece of timber under each rail, and in such a manner, as
near as may be, so as to make it impossible for man or beast to cross sAid
river upon sail structure, except in railway cars [the only roadway
between said shores and said structure being two or more iron rails, two
and a quarter inches wide, four anda half inches high, laid and fastened
upon said timber four feet ten inches asunder], is not a "bridge" within
the meaning of the act of New Jersey, passed A. D. 1790, and just mentioned; C.&TRox, J., dissenting. And the act of Assembly of that same
State, passed A. D. 1860, authorizing a company to builda railway, with
the necessary viaduct, over the Hackensack, does not impair the obligation of the contract made by the aforesaid act of 1790.

THE Judiciary Act (ยง25) provides, that a final deeree in
the highest court of equity in a State, "where is drawn in
any State on the
question the validity of a statute of ......
ground of its being repugnant to the Constitution of the United
States, and the decision is infavor of such validity, may be re-examined and reversed" in this court. And the Constitution
of the United States provides, that "no State shall pass any
..impairing the obligation of contracts."
.... law
With these provisions in force, the State of New Jersey
passed, A. D. 1790, an act creating a turnpike company, from
Newark to Powles Hook (near New York), and authorizing
commissioners to fix suitable sites for building bridges over
the rivers Passaic and Hackensack, and to cause to be erected
a bridge over each river, with a right to take toll from
classes of persons and things enumerated in the act, and
which may be summed up shortly as persons on foot, animals and vehicles crossing the bridge. The statute enacted,
"that it should be lawful for the commissioners to contract
with persons who would undertake the same for such toll, or
for so manyyears, and upon such conditions, as in their discretion should appear expedient;" and further, "that the said
contract should be valid and binding on the parties contracting
as well as on the State of New Jersey, and as effectual, to all intents and purposes whatever, as if the same, and every part,covenant, and condition therein contained had been particularly and
expressly set forth and enacted in this law." It was further

BRIDGE PROPRIETORS V. HOBOKEN Co.

[Slip. Ct.

Statement of the case.

enacted, "That it should not be lawful for any person or persons whatsoever to erect, or cause to be erected [within certain limits specified], any other bridge or bridges over or across
the said river; provided always, that if the said commissioners shall refuse or neglect, for the space of four years, to
cause to be erected the said bridges, in pursuance of this
act, or when erected, to maintain and support them, then it
shall and may be lawful for the legislature of this State to
repeal or alter this act, and to enact such other law or laws
touching or concerning the premises herein enacted, as to
them, in their wisdom, shall appear equitable and expedient."
In 1793, the commissioners contracted with one Ogden
and others his associates, for the erection of the bridges authorized, and demised them to the said Ogden and his associates until November 24th, A. D. 1889, with a right to levy
tolls as fixed in the contract. In 1797, the legislature of New
Jersey created the said Ogden and his associates a corporation, which corporation the complainants below, the present
plaintiffs in error, now were.
In 1860, the legislature of New Jersey, by statute, authorized another company altogether, to wit, the Hoboken Land
and Improvement Company, the defendants in this case, to
construct a railroad from the same town Newark to Hoboken (opposite New York), and to build the necessary "viaducts" over these same Passaic and Hackensack Rivers. And
the statute enacted that if unable to agree with the parties
owning or claiming them, it should be lawful for the company to "take and apropriate,use, and exercise, or cause to
be taken and appropriated and exercised, so much of all
rights, privileges,franchises, property, and bridges or viaducts, or
such parts thereof as may be necessary to enable the said
company to construct said railroad and branches,frst making,
or causing to be made, compensation therefor, as hereinafterprovided. Provided, that nothing in this act shall authorize or
empower the said company to construct more than one bridge
over each of the rivers Hackensack or Passaic, and the bridie

Dec. 1863.]

BRIDGE PROPRIETORS V. HOBOKEN CO.

119

Statement of the case.

over the HKackensack to be twelve hundred feet, river measure, fiomiany other bridge."*
Under the authority of the act of 1860, the Hoboken Company now began to erect their "structure" for carrying their
railway across the Hackensack River, and inside of those
limits within which the bridge proprietors considered that
the act of 1790 gave them exclusive privilege of bridges.
* As respected "compensation" for rights, &c., used, a matter relied onin
the dissenting opinion of one member of the court, Graim, J., in this case,
the statute provided that in case the Hoboken Company could not agree with
the corporation owning the right, &c., application should be made by the
company to the Chief Justice of New Jersey for the appointment of commissioners in the matter. Notice of the intended application for them, of not
less than ten days, was to be given to the parties interested. A particular
time was to be assigned for the appointment, and the appointment made only
after the Chief Justice had satisfactory evidence of the service or publication
of the notice. The statute then proceeded to say that the Chief Justice should
appoint three disinterested freeholders such commissioners ; and they, having
first taken oath impartially to examine the matter and to make a true report,
should meet at a time and place to be appointed by said judge, and proceed
to examine the matter and the route of the railroad, so far as the same should
be located, and report in writing what rights, &c., were necessary to be
taken and appropriated for the purposes of the act, and should make a just
appraisement of the value of the said rights, &c., and an assessment of such
damages as should be paid by the company for them; which report, it was
enacted-or in case of appeal, the verdict of the jury and judgment of the
Supreme Court thereon-shall (the damages being first paid to, or if they
refuse the same, or are unknown, "or labor under any disability, then deposited for the owner or owners in the Supreme Court) at all times be considered as plenary evidence of the right of the said company to take, have,
hold, use, occupy, possess, exercise, appropriate, and enjoy so much and
,such parts of said rights, &c., so necessary to be taken, appropriated, &c."
It was further enacted in substance, that in case either the company or
the claimants of the said rights, &c., should be dissatisfied with the report,
either might appeal to the Supreme Court of the State by petition, the
filing of which should give the court power to direct an issue, and to order
a jury and a view of the road, and that the jury should assess the value of
the rights. There was an enactment giving a right to collect by execution
the amount awarded, with a proviso, that the appeal from the commissioners
to the Supreme Court "shall not prevent the company from taking and
appropriating, exercising, using, and enjoying the said rights, privileges,
franchises, and property, or so much thereof as said commissioners shall
assess and appraise, upon the filing of the aforesaid report, and paying the
assessment and appraisement aforesaid, or making tender thereof, and depositing the same in the said Supreme Court for the owner or owners thereof."

120

BRIDGE PROPRIETORS V. flOBOKEN Co.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

This was done without the consent of the bridge proprietors,
and without condemning the value of their right of franchise.
The proprietors of the bridges over the rivers, &c., hereupon filed a bill in the Court of Chancery, praying an in.
junction and general relief. THE BILL set out the act of
1790, authorizing the commissioners to lease out the privilege of building, and the bridge when built, for a term of
years, and that it enacted that no person, during 99 years,
should erect any other bridge over the river within the
limits in question; that the commissioners had leased their
privilege for 99 years to Ogden and his associates, who had
built the bridges; the incorporation, &c. It then proceeded
to insist thus:
"That the said act and said lease, and all the stipulations and
provisions and enactments in them, and either of them, contained, became a contract between the State and said party of the
second part to said lease, who are now represented by your orators; and by the same the State became held and bound to and contracted with said party of the second part, and are now, by force
of such contract, held and bound to your orators, as provided in
the act, that no persons whatever should erect any other bridge
or bridges than that erected by laid lessees, and now belonging
to your orators. And your orators insist that the State cannot, by
any law, violate, void or impair said contract, even upon providing
and making compensationfor the damages sustaind thereby."
It next set out several statutes, Which it charged recognized these rights, and then the act of 1860, and alleged
that thereby the defendants were authorized to construct a
railroad, and to erect viaducts or bridges over the Hackensack River, and to take and appropriate property, rights, franchises, &c., necessary to construct the railroad. It further
set out the sections providing compensation for the franchises taken (see ante, p. 119, note), and that one section of
the act, the first, recognized the complainants' right as still existing. The bill set forth further, that the defendants had
commenced to build a bridge within the prohibited limits;
and that the complainants had not given their consent to

Dec. 1863.]

BRIDGE PROPRIETORS V. HOBOKEN CO.

121

Statement of the case.

this; nor the defendants tendered any compensation for the
violation of their contract with the State.
It insisted, "that there exists no such public necessity for
building a bridge within the prohibited limits as warrants
or requires the violation of the contract,-even had the
State the power to pass a law impairing the obligation of a
contract: that there exists no public necessity for the construction of the defendants' railroad, such as to authorize
the taking of the property and fianchises of other persons
or corporations."
It submitted, "that there does not exist that kind of public
necessity which requires or justifies taking prvate property
for public use, or the abrogation of a contract."
As respected the contract, the bill charged on the defendants as follows:
"And they sometimes give out and pretend that the State is
not held and bound, by any contract to or with your orators, that
no other bridge shall be erected within said limits, whereas your
orators chargethe contrary to be true, and that the State is held and
firmly bound to your orators by their contract that no bridge shall
be erected within said limits before the 24th day of November,
1889."
The bill prayed the defendants might be restrained from
building the bridge commenced; and for general relief and
injunction.
THE ANswER, admitting that "of course the obligation of
no contract can be impaired," declared "that the defendant
does not pretend that any public necessity requires the viola,
tion of any contract," and it set up several defences.
1. That by the act of 1790 the State did "not contract,"
and therefore the defendant "denied" the allegation that it
had done so; adding an admission, "that the said lease was a
contract by which the State was bound," and an allegation
that "this defendant is advised and insists, that it is the only
contract between the State and the said lessees, or their
alieneep (if any), and was by said law declared to be the cohtract by which the State was to be bound."

122

BRIDGE PROPRIETOR9 V. HooKE

Co.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

2. That the prohibitory language, "it shall not be lawful
for any persons to erect any other bridge," &c., in the act of
1790, was not in restraint of the legislature.
3. That any contract in the act of 1790 was discharged by
a non-performance of the conditionsprecedent contained in the
act.
4. That the structure of the defendant is not a bridge in
the sense that the word "bridge" is used in the act of 1790;
that it would differ fr-om a bridge in these particulars:
a. "It will not," the answer averred, "be connected with the
shore on either side of the river, except by a piece of timber
under each rail, and must necessarily be made so as to make
it impossible for man or beast to cross said river, upon the viaduct, except in defendant's cars."
6. "The only roadway," it was further asserted, "between
said shores and said structure, will be two or more iron rails,
each of the width of two and one-quarter inches, and of the
height of about four and one-half inches, laid and fastened
upon timber, said rails being at a distance offour feet asunder."
c. " It will be impossible," it was finally said, "for any ve.
hicle or animal, which can cross the river upon the bridge of complainants, to cross the same upon the railroad of defendant, and
no foot-passenger can cross the same with safety; nor is it
intended that any foot-passenger shall, but on the contrary,
the said railroad across the said river shall and will be so
constructed, and this defendant intends to construct the same
in such manner that no vehicle can cross the said river on
the said road or viaduct of the defendant, except locomotive
engines and railroadcarsresting, and which must necessc'rily move,
upon iron rails,and cannot move upon any bridge which was known
or used in the year 1790, or up to the time of the incorporationof
the complainants, and long after; and in such manner, that no
foot-passenger or animal can cross said river on the railroad
viaduct of the defendant."
5. The answer asserted, that any contract in the act of
1790 was discharged by the non-performance of conditions
subsequent.
6. That the complainants had no assignment of the lease,

Dec. 1863.]

BRIDGE PROPRETORS V.HOBOKFN CO.

123

Statement of the case.

i.e., had not a particular evidence of the right to claim the
benefit of the act of 1790.
7. That. the exclusive franchise conferred by the prohibition contained in the act of 1790 had been destroyed by the
complainants' own acts, admitted in the bill, in consenting
to other bridges within the prohibited limits.
8. That a court of equity would not restrain by injunction
the making of a bridge like that which the Hoboken Company proposed to make, and on which railroadcarsalone could
pass, if the complainants had an exclusive right and would
not exercise it.
The case was argued below, as it was here also, on. bill
and answer only.
The opinion of the chancellor below, which, however, was
no part of the record nor strictly in evidence here, was given
at length. In stating what he considered the points before
him to be, he said,
"The material issues are"1. Whether the complainants have, by virtue of a contract with
the State, the exclusive franchise of maintaining a bridge across
the Hackensack River, &e. ?
"2. Whether the structure which the defendants are engaged in
erecting is a violation of the complainants'franchise?"
After an argument on the first point, he concluded:
"I am of opinion, therefore, that the proprietors of the bridges
over the Rivers Passaic and Hackens~ek have, by contract with
the State, the exclusive franchiseof maintaining said bridges, and
taking tolls thereon, and that such contract is within the protection of that provision of the Constitution, which declares that no
law shall be passed impairing the obligation of contracts."
And he adds:
"The remaining inquiry is, whether the structure which the
defendants are erecting is a violation of the complainants' right?"
After an argument on this, the second point, to show that
a viaduct, such as the defendants proposed to construct, was

124

BRIDGE PROPRIETORS V. HOBOKEIN Co.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

not a "1bridge," within the meaning of the act of 1790, he
concludes:
"Applying to this contract the ordinary rules of interpretation, having regard to the subject-matter of the contract itself,
considering that it related solely to the travel upon ordinary
highways by methods then known and used, and that the complainants' franchise extended only to such travel, the construction
of a railroad bridge for the sole accommodation of railroadtravel
cannot be deemed an infringement of the complainants' right."
In the Court of Errors and Appeals, where only one or two
of the judges spoke, the course of argument was much the
same as with the chancellor.
The decree in the Court of Chancery was a simple dismissal,
thus: "The chancellor being of opinion that the complainants are not entitled to restrain the defendants from building
the bridge or structure complained of," therefore it is ordered,
&c., that the bill be dismissed.
The decree in the Court of Errors and Appeals was a simple affirmance; the language being, that "the cause coming
on to be heard, and the matter having been debated, &c., and
the court having advised, &c., it is hereby ordered, adjudged,
and decreed, that the decree of the chancellor be in all things
affirmed, with costs."
On appeal to this court from the Court of Errors and Appeals of New Jersey--" the highest court of equity" in that
"1State,"-the questions were:
I. Whether this court had jurisdiction? that is to say,
whether there had been drawn in question, in the State courts
of New Jersey, the validity of a statute of that State on the
ground that it violated the obligation of a contract? the decision being in favor of the statute.
IL If the court had jurisdiction, and so could re-examine
and reverse the decision below, whether there was any ground
for the reversal of the same? the points raised under the.
second being,
1. Whether there was ever meant to be any contract at all?
If so,

Dec. 1863.]

BRIDGE PROPRIETORS V.HOBOKEN CO.

125

Argument for the Hoboken Company.

2. Whlether it was a contract such as bound legislatures
of this day? If so,
3. *Whether a "-viaduct," such as was here proposed, was
a "bridge" within the meaning of that contract?
Milr. Bradley and 31r. Gilchristfor the Hoboken Company:
L As respectsjurisdtion. The case was decided on bill and
answer. Hence the allegations of the answer are to be taken
as true; and those of the bill are not to be taken as true,
except so far as admitted by the answer. Now what is it
that the pleadings put in issue? The answer, admitting the
inviolability of contracts, sets up eight defences in confession
and avoidance. They are already stated.* "Whatare they?
We must be excused for recapitulation.
1. That by the act of 1790, the State did not make a "con
tract." This defence involves simply the construction of the act
of 1790.
2. That the language of the act, "it shall not be lawful,"
&c., was not in restraint of the legislature. This defence also
did but involve the construction of this act.
8. That if the act of 1790 was a contract originally, it was
one on conditions precedent, and that the omission of the parties who claimed the benefit of it to perform those conditions
precedently, operated to dissolve whatever contract there
was. This involved the construction of the act, a question offact,
and perhaps a question of general State law.
4. That the defendants were not building a "bridge,"
within the meaning of the act of 1790. This also involved
but the interpretationof the act and a question of fact.
5. That any contract was diScharged by the non-performance of certain conditions subsequent named in the act.
Here again was only a question of construction, a question offact,
andperhaps a question of general State law.
6. That the complainants showed no transfer to themselves of the rights originally given by the act. This involved nothing beyond a question of fact, and the general rules
regulatinq the transfer and devolution of property.
* Ante, p. 121-3

BRIDGE PROPRIETORS V. HOBOKEN CO.

[Su1p. Ct

Argument for the Hoboken Company.

7. That the exclusive franchise given by the act of 17.0
had been destroyed by the complainants' own acts, as admitted in the bill, in consenting to other bridges within the
prohibited limits. This involved the construction of the act of
1790, and the law regulating the nature of incorporeal hereditaments.
8. That equity would not restrain by injunction the making
of a railway bridge like the defendants', if the complainants
had the exclusive right and would not exercise it. In this
defence there was nothing but a question of equity practice.
The decree of the chancellor was in four lines. That of
the Court of Errors and Appeals in five. The former was
a dismissal without reasons assigned. The latter an affirmance of the same kind. Though the opinions of the chancellor and the arguments of the judges in the higher court,
as delivered, are not part of the record nor in evidence, we
know as a fact that the bill was dismissed, and that this
dismissal was affirmed, because all the tribunals considered
that a viaduct was not a "bridge," within the intent of the
act of 1790. The whole matter turned, therefore, on a construction of that act. The constitutionality of the act of
1860 was not in question, nor was its meaning discussed.
It is not true that the entire subject of contracts, like that
of foreign commerce, and commerce between the States, is
placed under the regulation of the Federal Government.
Were it so, then, in every case where a State court should
-adjudicate upon a contract, its decision ought to be subject
to revision by Federal authority. On the contrary, to give to
this court jurisdiction over a decree of a State court, supposed to decide in favor of the validity of a State statute,
by the very words of the Judiciary Act1st. The validity of the State statute must have been drawn
in question; and the statute must have been in "dispute."
2d. There is but one ground on which the validity must
have been drawn in question, i. e., the ground that the statute was repugnant to the Constitution of the United States.
3d. The decision of the Court must have been in favor of
"such" its validity, with respect to the Constitution.

Dec. 1863.]

BRIDGE PROPRIETORS V. -0DOKE"

CO.

12

Argument for the Hoboken Company.

And it makes no difference whether the contract alleged
to be impaired is an ordinary contract between private citizens, or a contract made by the State with citizens. State
contracts, in this regard, are of no greater validity, and have
no greater sanctity, than other contracts, whether they axe
in the shape of statutes, or charters, or grants of land, or
franchises, or otherwise. In our casethe contract relied on
is the act of 1790. The only law which is pretended to have
impaired its obligation is the ,act of 1860, authorizing the
defendants to construct their railroad and bridges. Does
this law of 1860 impair the obligation of the alleged contract, contained in the act of 1790, giving to that contract
any construction we choose? If it does not, then, although
the courts of New Jersey may not have correctly construed
that contract, this court has no jurisdiction, and cannot reverse their decision, any more than it could reverse the decision of the State court in any other case, however erroneous.
The Commercial .Bank v. .BucLingham's .Executors,* in this
court is in point.
If a land proprietor, without any State legislation, had
erected a bridge across the Hackensack River for his own
use, within the prohibited limits, and the plaintiffs had sued
him in the State courts as for an infringement of their franchise, could this court have reversed the decision of the State
courts in the case ? Certainly not. And why not? Because
the case specified in the Constitution did not arise. No law
was passed impairing the obligation of a contract. The decision of the State court on the validity and construction of
the alleged contract would have been final. And so in this
case, if no law has been passed impairing the obligation of
the contract, the decision of the State court, though based
on a construction of the contract, is final. If, indeed, a State
court so interprets a State law as to make it operate to impair
the obligation of a contract, that must be received here as
the true reading of the law, and this court will then acquire
jurisdiction. But, in this case, as we have said, the State
* 5 Howard, 817.

BRIDGE PRoPrIETons v. 1IOBOKEX CO.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the Hoboken Company.

court has not put any construction upon the act of 1860 to
render it obnoxious to this objection. The act of 1790 it
was which was considered; but even it was not drawn in
question on the ground of its being repugnant to the Constitution of the United States, and there neither was nor
could have been a decision that it was not so repugnant. As
a result, indeed, of the construction put on the act of 1790,
the act of 1860 may be to be regarded as constitutional; so
may other acts of the legislature, or the bridge-building on
the Hackensack of private individuals not under State authority.
But the act of 1860 has not been drawn in qaestion, nor
ever considered. It was outside of what was involved, and
might have sat down by itself to look calmly on the conflict
which it had raised bet ween the act of 1790 and the courts
of iNew Jersey, who were about to strangle that act's extravagant pretensions. If this is so, then the whole question
is a domestic one, which belongs to the exclusive jurisdiction
of the iNew Jersey courts; and they may construe the contract of 1790 as they please, just as they might any other
contract in litigation before them.
Undoubtedly where the only title of a plaintiff is a State
statute, the decision of the suit in his favor is a decision in
favor of the validity of the statute. Such were cases which
the court will recall: Smith v. Maryland, (6 Cranch, 286;) Willson v. Blackbird Creek, (2 Peters, 245;) Craig v. State of Missouri, (4 Id., 410;) Martin v. Hunter's lessee, (1 Wheaton, 304.)
So, where the title of the plaintiff is good, unless a State statute under which the defendant claims, gives the defendant a
title, and the defendant has no other defence, a decision of the
suit in the defendant's favor would seem to be a decision in
favor of the validity of the latter statute. But where many
defences are set up, and the defendant's acts are attributed to
a State statute, how is.
the court to determine that the validity of the statute was drawn in question, as repugnant to
the Constitution of the United States, and that the mere decision of the suit against. the party raising the questions of
validity, is a decision in favor of the validity of the statute,
and not a decision entirely independent of that question?

Dec. 1863.]

BRIDGE PROPRIETORS V. HOBOKEN CO.

129

Argument for the Hoboken Company.

For such cases the court have from time to time settled
rules.
I. The State statute complained of must be stated in the
record.* Here it is merely referred to.
n. It must be averred in the pleadings that the statute is
void.t This averment nowhere appears.
ji. The particular clause of the Constitution of the United
States must appear by the record to have been specified by
the plaintiffs in error in the State court; it is not enough to
show that the question was involved, and might and ought
to have been considered$ Here the Constitution of the
United States is not even mentioned in the record.
iv. Any general charge of unconstitutionality of the statute, will not be considered as referring to the Constitution
of the United States, but to the State Constitution.ยง
The point insisted on, that the State cannot impair the
contract, and other references to this incapacity of the State,
are not so definite in the reference to a constitutional repugnance as the third exception in Maxwell v. Newbold, decided
by this court, Iiand must be referred to the State Constitution, if referable to any constitution.
v. If it appears by the record that the cause might have
been decided on the construction of a State statute not impeached, which admits of a construction consistent with the
decision-without deciding in favor of the validity of the statute impeached-this court will not take jurisdiction.
That the decision in the principal case may be fairly referred to a construction of the act of 1790 alone, and to the courts'
holding that a railroadviaduct is not a bridge, in the sense that
the word "bridge" is used in the act of 1790, is manifest by
the fact that the same decision of that question has been
made in numerous cases; ** and in the opinions of the chan* Maxwell v. Newbold, 18 Howard, 516.

t Medberry v. Ohio, 24 Id-, 413.
$ Hoyt v.Shelden, 1 Black, 518; Maxwell v. Newbold, 18 Howard, 515,
1118 Id., 514, 516.
J Porter v.Foley, 24 Howard, 415. . .
617.
Commercial Bank v.Buckingham Executors, 5 Id., 317.
-- Cited post, in the opinion of the court, ad finm.
VOL. L

9

BRIDGE PROPRIETORS V. HOBOKEN CO.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the Hoboken Company.

cellor and Court of Errors in the principal case, which are
not cited to show what the decision was, but that the case
will admit of such decision without deciding on the validity
of any statute. This we have already said.
vI. Nor, as we have said also already, and in our general
remarks, will the court take jurisdiction, if they see that, on
a view of the case that might have been taken by the State
court, it is a question depending on general principles of
State law, as one or more of the defences do in the principal
case. In other words, a controversy which turns entirely
upon the interpretation' of State laws is exclusively within
the jurisdiction of the State courts, if they first acquire jurisdiction, and the Supreme Court of the United States has no
appellate power over them.*
vii. Nor will the court take jurisdiction, when the court
below decided the cause on a question of practice.t
The last defence against the relief prayed, is that a rule of
practice in equity will prevent an injunction; and that rule
is, that where the owner of a franchise (as of a ferry), neglects
to exercise it (provide proper boats, &c.), the court will not
interfere by injunction to protect the franchise fiom invasion.
In the principal case, the structure complained of was a railroad bridge or viaduct, and the complainants had not provided such a bridge, although they claimed a right to prevent
its construction.
IL How stands the case as respects contract?
1. Is there any contract in the case? The act of 1790 is a
mere act of legislation; a measure by which the State, for the
benefit of all, carries on a public work. The commissioners
were vested with a portion of political power. There was
no consideration for any contract with them. In a country
where there is less indisposition to the granting of monopolies than in ours, Sir Wm. Scott says, with profound truth :t
- -Congdon v. Goodman, 2 Black, 574; Heirs of Poydras de La Lande v.
Louisiana, 18 Howard, 192.
- Matheson v. Branch Bank of Mobile, 7 Howard, 260.
The Elsebe, 5 0. Robinson, 155.

Dec. 1863.]

BRIDGE PROPRIETORS V. HOBOKEN CO.

.131

Argument for the Hoboken Company.

"A general presumption is, that government does not mean
to divest itself of a universal attribute of sovereignty, unless
it is so clearly and unequivocally expressed. The wise po.
licy of our law, which interprets grants of the crown in this
respect, by other rules than those which are applied in the
construction of grants of individuals, must be taken in conjunction with the universal presumption. Against an individual, it is presumed he meant to convey a benefit, with
the utmost liberality his words will allow. It is indifferent
to the public in which person an interest remains, whether
in the grantor or grantee. With regard to the grant of the
sovereign it is far otherwise. It is not held by the sovereign
as private property; and no alienation shall be presumed,
except that which is clearly and indisputably expressed."
2. But, if the legislature had directly contracted with the
bridge proprietors, that for ninety-nine years no other bridge
within these limits should be authorized or built, would such
law be valid to bind future legislatures as a contract? The
power to make roads and build bridges is a governmental
power. It is always a part of the sovereign or legislative
power, and the duty to provide them is correlative. In New
Jersey, now, as in 1790, all legislative power is in the Senate
and Assembly, elected periodically by the people. No legislature can rest it or any part of it in any other body, or
place it beyond the control of the next elected legislative
body. Their only power is to exercise, not to alien their
powers. The grant of a power or a franchise is a grant of
property; it is an act of legislative power, not an abdication
of such power. But if the franchise or power attempted to
be granted is not property, but part of the legislative or
sovereign power, the grant is void; it is revolution, or constitution-making, not legislation. The legislature could not
grant away nor limit the power of future legislatures to
punish crimes, to establish courts, to regulate succession to
property, or to suppress drunkenness, in the whole State or
in any section of it. These are not more properly or peculiarly legislative powers, than the power of making and regulating roads or bridges. If the legislature were to incor.

132.

BRIDGE PROPRIETORS V. HOBOKEN CO.

[Sup. CtL

Argument for the Hoboken Company.

porate a prison discipline society, or juvenile reform society,
and to enact that it should not be lawful without their consent to punish capitally any one under seventeen years of age,
either in the State, or in the county where such institution
was, this as law, while unrepealed,would be good,but as a contract it would not take away the power of future legislatures.
A.n act incorporating a law school, with a provision that no
Supreme Court judge should be appointed in this State, except from its pupils; or, incorporating a large hotel at the
seat of government, with a provision that it should not be
lawful for any legislature afterwards to prohibit the sale of
ardent spirits in any quantities, and that no taverns should
ever afterwards be licensed; or incorporating a bank, with
provisions that no future legislature should allow any other
power or corporation to transact any banking business,-are
examples of the same kind of legislation as the grant of
the monopoly, if any monopoly ever was granted, which we
deny. On the theory of the complainants, a legislature of
any peculiar views on vexed questions of government, could
by a section in a charter bind all future legislatures from
exercising legislative powers, and fix the law forever. All
will agree that such acts would be void.
This bridge act, preventing the legislature for ninety-nine
years exercising a clear governmental or legislative power
needed for the public prosperity and protection, is of the
same kind; the same as if it had been enacted that murder
there should never be punished with death; or selling of
liquor should be forever free.
If one power of legislation may be parted with or placed
under the veto of a private corporation, not to be resumed,
so may every power successively be and by degrees, and
future legislatures may be such in name only. The government controlled by corporations would not be the republican
government guaranteed by the Constitution.
This company can have no property or grant of property
in the river, except in the length occupied by their own
bridge. They have paid nothing to the public or to landowners above or below for this incumbrance or incubus

Dec. 1863.]

BRIDGE PROPRIETORS V. HOBOKEN

Co.

13

Argument for the Hoboken Company.

upon them that they should be for ninety-nine years deprived
of the benefits of legislative protection.
8. Is the contract, admitting one, impaired?
The act of 1860 provides compensation for every right,
privilege, franchise, or property which might be necessary
to be exercised, used, appropriated, or taken in the construction of the railroad or bridges of the defendants. The exclusive right here claimed is a franchise. That such a right of
franchise may be taken or extinguished for public purposes
on compensation given, is settled at the present day.* A
contract is property, but is no more sacred than other property. Its obligation is not impaired, but is recognized,
when compensation is provided for its infringement.
IIL The structure is not a bridge within the meaning of !he a(t
of 1790. Such a structure as the defendants propose to build,
it had not, in 1790, entered into any man's mind to conceive
of. He would have been regarded as a dreamer, or insane,
who at that time had spoken seriously of such a fabric as is
described in this case. t Now there are certain rules for the
construction of grants, long established in the law. They
come to us with the common law of England, are very ancient, and very settled. They may be found in the oldest
reporters. One of them is thus enunciated in Lord Hobart's
reports: "Words in grants shall be construed according to
a reasonable and easie sense; not strained to things unlikely
or unusual;"I and this rule, the great chief justice of King
James I, illustrates by a case more ancient than his own day;
citing a decision from 14 Henry VIII, "that if a man grant
all his woods and trees, apple-trees do not pass." "1Every
grant," says another old reporter, Oroke,ยง "shall be expounded as the intent was at the time of the grant; as if I grant
an annuity to J. S., until he be promoted to a competent benefice, and at the time of the grant he was but a mean person,
* West River Bridge -v. Dix, 6 Howard, 529.
t Ante, p. 122.
t London v. The Collegiate Church of Southwell, Hobart, 303; and seo
Hewet v. Painter, 1 Bulstrode, 175.
Mildmay v. Standish, Croke Eliz., 85.

134

BRIDGE PROPRIETOrtS V. IIoBoKEN CO.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the Hoboken Company.

and afterward is made an archdeacon, yet, if I ofir him a
competent benefice, according to his estate at the time of the
grant, the annuity doth cease."
As respects royal or government grants, it is an equally
settled rule, that nothing passes by general words or by implication. The reasons are set forth by Sir William Scott, in
the passage already cited.* Hence we gather from Plowden (Gase of the Mines)t that if the King grants lands and the
mines therein contained, it will pass only common mines, not
mines of gold or silver; for the words in their common sense
are satisfied by the passing of the more usual ones. So Sir
John Davies, Chief Justice of Ireland in the time of James I,
reports, that where the King granted to Sir R. M. all the territories adjoining a river, and all the fisheries within it, except three parts of the Fishery of Banne, the fourth part did
not pass to him, for the King's grants pass nothing by implication.t The same doctrine is declared in Rolle's Abridgment, under the head of "Prerogative Le -?oy."ยง
The special character of the structure, and its want of
resemblance to a bridge, is set forth in the defendants'
answer.1f Neither man nor beast can cross on it, save in the
defendants' cars. The viaduct is for a kind of vehicle which
no bridge known in 1790 can carry. It is wholly open. The
only roadway is two or more iron rails, separated by a distance of four feet asunder. It is in fact no more a bridge
than a sieve is a bucket.
Such a structure, it has'been decided in North Carolina
If in Connecticut a
and in New York, is not a bridge.
t Page 336.
The Royal Fishery of The Banne, Davies, 157.
Rolle, speaking of the prerogative, and to what things it extends, says:
(page 202), that a charter of exemption of lands of a corporation from forest
law, only extends to lands then held, not those after acquired. His language is:
"Si Le Roy graunt al un evesque quod omnia maneria et omnes terr- et
omnia feoda del dit evesque et ses successors indc in perpetuum, libera sint,
et quieta de tiel forest del Roy, &c. Evesque alia maneria sua, terras, et
homines suos clamare non potest esse quieta de Foresta, quam illa quw tempora
eonfectnnis illius charice fuerunt in seisina del dit evesque. (18 Edward I, lib.
Ante, p. 122.
1Parl. I. Evesgue de Coventriyj Litchfield's case.)
I In North Carolina, MeRee v.Wilmington Railroad Co., 2 Jones's Law,
* Ante, p. 130.

Dec. 1863.]

BRIDGE PROPRIETORS V..HOBOKEN CO.

135

Argument for the Bridge Proprietors

different decision has been given in the Enfield Bridge casea case which will be cited and relied on by the other side-it
was in a case where the viaduct was planked and railed, which
made a secure roadway for man, beast, and vehicles.
31r. Zab'iskfe for the Bridge Proprietors:
1. Has this courtjurisdiction to revise? The plaintiffs claim
that they are protected by a contract with the State from
any bridge being erected within certain limits, and that the
State cannot, by law, impair that contract. They complain
further that the State had passed such law, and that the defendants were proceeding under it to erect such bridge.
The defendants admit the law, alleged to violate that contract, and that they are under it proceeding to erect this
bridge. They deny the contract, or that the contract prohibits the erection of a railroad bridge.
The act of 1860 is the only authority the defendants have.
No bridge can be erected over a navigable river but by authority of the sovereign. The record shows that the whole
right depended on this statute. The decision dismissing
the bill and refusing all relief, was in favor of the statute
and the authority exercised under it. The validity of the
statute of 1860 and the authority exercised under it was
therefore drawn in question, as being repugnant to the Constitution of the United States. This was not done in words
so reciting, or pointing out the clause of the Constitution,
but by stating that it was in Niolation of the contract; in
the words of the Constitution, that "it impaired the obligation of the contract." The defence was on the ground that
the act or the bridge did not impair the obligation of the
contract; either that there was no contract or that it did
not extend to a railroad bridge. The record shows that this
was the question raised and argued, and as there could be no
decision in favor of the defendant except by holding the
act and authority valid, the record shows by necessary intendment that this was the decision of the State court. If this
186; in New York, The Mohawk Bridge Co. v. Utica Railroad; 6 Paige, 564;
Thompson v. The N. Y. & H. Railroad, 3 Sandford's Chancery, 625.

136

BRIDGE PROP.RIETORS V. HOBOKEN Co.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the Bridge Proprietors.

appears, this court has jurisdiction by the umilforr, current
of decisions in this court to this time. C(iowell v. Bandell*
is the leading case. All cases recognize it.t
2. Is there a contract in the case? This we consider too plain
for extended argument. The language of the act is pleo.
nastically full on that subject.

It declares that the contract

of the commissioners shall bind the State of New Jersey,
"to all intents and purposes whatsoever, as if the same and
every part, covenant, and condition therein contained had
been particularly and expressly set forth and enacted."
3. -Doesthe act of 1860 violate this contract? There is nothing
in the act to show that the legislature intended to limit the
words which it uses, or to make them inconsistent with the
meaning which they have from their natural force. The
words are "any other bridge ;" words of the widest import;
and which taken in connection with the fact that any kind
of bridges would impair the income and value of the bridge
erected by the plaintiffs, should settle the question. No
lexicographer confines the meaning of the word to oldfashioned bridges, for old-fashioned coaches; the American
"article" of the specific year of grace, 1790. In encyclopedias; in works on railway engineering; in acts of Parliament and of our legislatures authorizing railways; in all
works written in the English language, by good authors, in
which railway bridges are spoken of, they are called bridges,
and the very act of 1860 brought here in question, uses the
word "bridge" to designate railroad bridges; so using it
seven times in its first section. The tubular iron structure
for railroads over the Straits of Menai and over the St. Lawrence at Montreal, are well known wherever the language
is spoken, as the Menai bridge and the Victoria bridge.
Neither of them, any more than the defendants' bridge or
other railway bridges, have a footway; and, though an agile
pedestrian might clamber over any of them, such use would
thwart the purpose of their construction, and be at great
* 10 Peters, 868, 898.

f Armstrong v. Treasurer of Athens, 16 Peters, 281; Lawlor v. Walker,
14 Howard, 152, 14.

Dec. 1863.]

BRIDGE PROPRIETORS V. UOBOKEN

O.

137

Argument for the Bridge Proprietors.

peril to life. The subject-miatter of the contract was to prohibit any injurious competition by bridges within, the prescribed limits. Beyond the limits they were not to be protected; and within the limits only against bridges, not
against ferries, tunnels, balloons, or any other device. The
object was, that all passengers and cattle, and produce and
goods, carried in the vehicles on which they had a right to
take toll, should have no other way of passing the river on
any bridge within these limits but this. This would compel
them to cross by plaintiffs' bridge or to go out of their way,
or by an inconvenient and tedious ferry-boat. And the intent of the legislature was, by this covenant, to induce capitalists to expend their money in building bridges which
would not at first remunerate them, but by a long monopoly
would. The object would not have been effected by protecting them only against a bridge like their own, which, if
erected, would only take away one-half their custom, and
allowing a railroad bridge, which would take away nineteentwentieths of it. Had the act of 1790 contained in the contract against any other bridge, an exception of a railroad
bridge, or plank road bridge, or any other bridge which
might be used for any improved system of travel thereafter
to be brought in use, the persons who built this bridge
would never have undertaken it. A toll bridge, or a free
bridge, or a bridge, which, like this, is used as part of a
railroad line, charging no tolls eo nomine, but a fare for being
carried over the whole route, in which compensation for the
use of the bridge is included, all are within the object and
intent of this prohibition. They all carry passengers, ani
mals) and freight, that without them would pass over this
bridge of the plaintiffs and pay tolls. The object and intent
of the legislature coincide with the subject-matter of the
act, and can only be carried out by prohibiting "any other
bridge." It is idle to say that the plaintiffs cannot charge
toll for locomotives, cars, elephants, &c., and are not bound
to provide bridges for them, and, therefore, bridges can be
built to accommodate them; and all passengers and carriages that should otherwise go over plaintiffi' bridge, be

BRIDGE PROPRIETORS V. HOBOKEN CO.

[Sup.

o

Argument for the Bridgn Proprietors.

carried on these new bridges. If the contract is clear, and
the bridges both within the letter and object of it, the State
must adhere to its contract although improvident.

In The Enfield Toll-Bridge Company v. Te Hartford ano
Neew Haven Railway Company,* the point now before this
court was fully argued in a full bench. Williams, C. J.,
one of the ablest of the jurists of America, in delivering the
opinion of the court speaks as follows. We cite his language
as much for its cogency, as we do the judgment for its authority. Thus he speaks for the law. It is impossible that we
can speak more potently for ourselves. Let his exposition
of law be our argument in the case. We adopt-his language
as our own:
"What is a bridge?

It is a structure of wood, iron, brick or

stone, ordinarily erected over a river, brook, or lake, for the more
convenient passage of persons or beasts, and the transportation
of baggage; and whether it is a wide raft of logs floating upon
the water, and bound with withes, or whether it rests on piles
of wood, or stone abutments or arches, it is still a bridge. The
particular manner in which the structure is built is not described;
but it is said to be much in the manner common to railroad
bridges,-the bottom covered with plank and the sides secured
by railing. It is a matter of notoriety that.railroad bridges are
built upon solid abutments of mason-work and resting on piers
of stone between the abutments, thus giving strength and security to the frame above. It is not easy to see wherein such a
structure differs from an ordinary bridge, except that, as it is
to endure a greater burden, it is more solid and substantial. It
is true the planks and rails upon it are laid in a manner most
convenient for the cars which are to pass it, and not convenient
for, perhaps not admitting, common vehicles, and not intended
for, though admitting, the passage of foot-passengers.
"It would seem, therefore, as if this was what would be ordinarily called a bridge. . But we agree that it is not the name
which is sufficient to designate it. We must then consider the
object: What was the intent of this structure? The safe and
expeditious passage of persons, whether from greater or less
* 17 Connecticut, 56.

Dec. 1863.]

BRIDGE PROPRIETORS V. HOBOKEN

CO.

139

Argument for the Bridge Proprietors.

distances, over this stream, in the cars or carriages provided for
that purpose, together with all baggage or freight intrusted to
the care of the company. It may not, and it is not intended to
accomplish all the objects of a common bridge, as it is not adapted
to the common vehicles in use; but can that fact change its
character as a bridge? A bridge adapted only to foot-passen.
gers would be still a bridge; and it would hardly be claimed
that such a bridge might be erected by the side of the plaintiffs'
under the provisions of this act. We find then a structure of
the form of a bridge, with the name of a bridge and of the character of a bridge. But go a step further, and see if it is not
doing the business of a bridge? Certain facts are not specifically found, which we all know must exist, such as,-that every
passenger in the ears must cross this river upon this bridge,
within the limits secured to the plaintiffs. It is constantly
doing at least some, if not much, of the business which the
plaintiffs had a fair right to expect under their grant.
"We find then this structure with the form of a bridge, with
the name of a bridge, with the -character of a bridge, doing its
work, and in this way doing the very injury to the plaintiffs
which this proviso was designed to guard against. We cannot,
then, but conclude that it is a bridge.
"It is said it is not the bridge contemplated in the act, or
'another bridge. It cannot be claimed that by another bridge
was intended a bridge exactly like this, or that a bridge of iron
or stone would not be within the provisions, or even a bridge of
boats; nor can it be claimed that a bridge much safer or stronger
would be equally within the prohibitions. Nor is it the improve.
ment in the structure of the bridge, nor the additional safety it
affords to travellers, that will give the rights, or constitute it
'another bridge.
"It is further claimed, that when the plaintiffs' charter was
granted, railroads were unknown; therefore it cannot be. sup.
posed the legislature intended bridges connected with railroads.
But whether the fact is so or not it can make no difference. Is
a grant of this kind, which we here adjudged to be a contract,
to be s~t aside, because an advantage not contemplated at the
time may result from its violation? Is there any implied condition in such a grant, that, upon some new improvement being
made, the grant should be void? How would such a .caimbe
treated in other cases of great public improvement? Suppose

140

BRIDGE PROPRIETORS V. HOBOKEN CO.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the city of New York had leased Fulton Ferry for a term of
years, when no boats were known but those which were moved
by the hand and wind or tide; after the introduction of steamboats, could they have leased the ferry to the persons who would
navigate it by steam ? Or could the legislature do this, if they
had granted the ferry? We know of no principle by which this
case can be distinguished from that."

This opinion is an answer to all that has been said by the
opposite side op the point which it treats of; an answer to
which that side can find no reply.
The case cited by the other side, from North Carolina,
does not decide anything contrary to this. The suit was one
for a penalty in violating an act of Assembly, passed in 1756,
to encourage B. Herron to build a bridge over the Cape
Fear l uver. Among other enactments made by the Assembly was this one: "It shall not be lawful for any person
whatever to keep any ferry, build any bridge, or set any
person or persons, carriage or carriages, cattle, &c., over the
said river for fee or reward, within six miles of the same,
under a penalty of twenty shillings for each offence."
The defendants pleaded specially a charter of 1833 to
themselves.
Pearson, J., in deciding the case, said that it was unrea.sonable on the part of Herron, in consideration of the services he was to perform, to exact a perpetual monopoly of
setting persons and property over the river by means of his
bridge, so that it should never thereafter be in the power of
the Governor, Council, and Assembly, no matter what might
be the change in the condition of things, either in reference
to the increased necessity for transports across the river, or
the improved modes of transportation, to authorize any other
mode of crossing the river, &c. "Suppose, for instance, two
cities had grown up, one on either side of the river, so that
the necessities of the public should call for a dozen such bridges,
or the progress of science had called for a tunnel under the
river, or a line of balloons over the river or a railroad rush.
ing by steam from one extremity of the continent to the
other, a3ross the rivers, was it the meaning of the parties

Dec. 1863.]

BRIDGE PROPRIETORS V. HoBOKEN Co.

141

Opinion of the court.

that the government tied its own hands, and disabled itself
for all time to come from doing its duty ?"
But the Judge declines to decide the case upon that grouT1,
and says:
"We are not, however, under the necessity of putting the
decision upon the mere question of construction, for the Declaration of lights at once puts an end to any such unreasonable
,pretension or claim to an hereditary and perpetual monopoly as
that set up by the plaintiffs. Declaration of Rights, ยง 3, says
'that no set of men are entitled to exclus;ve or separate emoluments or privileges from the community but in consideration of
public services;' ยง 22, ' that no hereditary emoluments, privi.
leges, or honors ought to be granted or contfrred in this State;"

ยง 23, 'that perpetuities and monopolies are contrary to the
genius of a free State, and ought not to be allowed."'
And the case, proceeding entirely upon the peculiar Constitution of North Carolina, is evidently of no authority outside of that State.
The case cited from New York-even if it were in pointis more than answered by the reasoning of Williams, C. J.,
in the case of the Enfield Tofl Bridge, which we have quoted
at large a page or two back.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the bpinion of the court:
The first point arising in the case is that which relates to
the jurisdiction of this 'court to review the decision of the
State court of New Jersey. This is a question which this
court has always looked into in this class of cases, whether
the point be raised by counsel or not; but here it is much
pressed, and we proceed to examine it.
It is asserted by the plaintiflh in error, that the validity of
the act of the New Jersey legislature of 1860, is drawn in
question as being contrary to that provision of the Constitution of the United States, which declares that no State shall
pass any law impairing the obligation of a contract; and that
the decision of the State court was in favor of its validity,
and the case is therefore embraced by the 25th section of
the Judiciary Act.

BRIDGE PROPRIETORS V. HOBOKEN CO.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

It is objected, however, by the defendants, that the pleadings do not, in words, say that the statute is void because it
conflicts with the Constitution of the United States, and do
not point out the special clause of the Constitution supposed
to render the act invalid.
It would be a new rule of pleading, and one altogether
superfluous, to require a party to set out specially the provision of the Constitution of the United States, on which he
relies for the action of the court in the protection of his rights.
If the courts of this country, and especially this court, can
be supposed to take judicial notice of anything without pleading it specially, it is the Constitution of the United States.
And if the plaintiff and defendant in their pleadings, make
a case which necessarily comes within some of the provisions
of that instrument, this court surely can recognize the fact
without requiring the pleader to say in words: "This paragraph of the Constitution is the one involved in this case."
Very few questions have been as often before this court,
as those which relate to the circumstances under which it will
review the decision of the State courts; and the very objection now raised by defendants has more than once been considered and decided.
In the case of (rowell v. Randell,* the motion to dismiss
for want of jurisdiction was argued at much length by Mr.
Webster, Mr. Sergeant, and Mr. Clayton, whose names are
a sufficient guarantee that the matter was well considered.
The opinion was delivered by Mr. Justice Story. He reviews
all the cases reported up to that time, and lays down these
four propositions as necessary to bring a case within the 25th
section of the Judiciary Act.
"1st. That some one of the questions stated in that section did arise in the State court. 2d. That the question was
decided by the State court, as required in the same section.
3d. That it is not necessary that the question should appear
on the record to have been raised and the decision made in
direct and positive terms, ipsissbims verbis, but that it is suf* 10 Peters, 868

Dec. 1863.]

BRIDGE PROPRIETORS V. HOBOKEN 00.

143

Opinion of the court.

ficient if it appears, by clear and necessary intendment, that
the question must have been raised and must have been decided, in order to have induced the judgment. 4th. That it
is not sufficient to show that the question might have arisen
or been applicable to the case, unless it is further shown in
the record that it did arise, and was applied by the State
court to the case."
In the case of Armstrong v. The Treasurerof Athens Comity,*
Judge Catron, in delivering the opinion of the court, said that
the question of jurisdiction under the 25th section of the act
of 1789, had so often arisen, and parties had been subject to
so much unnecessary expense, that the court thought it a fit
occasion to state the principles on which it acted in such cases.
Referring especially to the manner in which the question on
which the jurisdiction must rest shall be made to appear, he
lays down six different modes in which that may be done.
The first of these is "either by express averment or by necessary intendment in the pleadings in the case." The sixth is,
"that it must appear from the record that the question was
necessarily involved in the decision, and that the State court
could not have given the judgment or decree which they
passed, without deciding it."
Now, although there are other decisions in which it is said
that the point raised must appear on the record, and that the
particular act of Congress, or part of the Constitution supposed to be infringed by the State law, ought to be pointed
out, it has never been held that this should be done in express
words. But the true and rational rule is, that the court must
be able to see clearly, from the whole record, that a certain
provision of the Constitution or act of Congress was relied
on by the party who brings the writ of error, and that the
right thus claimed by him was denied.
Looking at the record before us, and applying to it these
principles, we find no difficulty in the matter. The defendants
claim, under the act of 1860 of the New Jefsey legislature, a
right to build their railroad bridge, or viaduct, over the Hack* 16 Peters. 28i.

BRIDGE PROPRIETORS V. HIOBOKEN CO.

[Sup. CL,

Opinion of the court.

eusack River, inside the limits prohibited by the act of 1790.
The plaintiffs say, that to permit this is to violate the contract
which they have with the State of New Jersey, and therefore
the act of 1860, so far as it confers such authority on the defendants, is made void by the Constitution of the United States,
because it impairs the obligation of a contract. The State
court dismissed the bill on these pleadings alone. It could
not have done this, without holding the act of 1860 to be
valid, as it was the only authority on which defendants rested
their right to build any structure whatever over the Hackensack River. In holding that act to be valid, notwithstanding
plaintiffs claim that it was void as impairing the obligation
of their contract with the State of New Jersey, a decision was
made within the very terms of the 25th section of the act of
Congress of 1789.
It is said, however, that it is not the validity of the act of
1860 which is complained of by plaintiffs, but the construction placed upon that act by the State court. If this construction is on. "wbich violates the plaintiffs' contract, and is
the one on which tie defendants are acting, it is clear that the
plaintiffs have no relief except in this court, and that this
court will not be discharging its duty to see that no State
legislature shall pass a law impairing the obligation of a contract, unless it takes jurisdiction of such cases.
The case of the CommercialBank v. Buckingham's.Executors,*does not conflict with this view, because that was a case in
which the prior and the subsequent statutes were both adinitted to be valid under any construction of them, and therefore no construction placed by the State court on either of
them, could draw in question its validity, as being repugnant
to the Constitution of the United States, or any act of Congress.
But there is a misconception as to what was construed in
this case by the State court. It is very obvious that the statute of 1860 was not construed. No doubt is entertained by
this court, none could have been entertained by the State
r Howard, 817.

Dec. 1863.]

BRIDGE PROPRIETORS v. HOBOKEN

Co.

145

Opinion of the court.

court, that it was intended by the framers of that act to autborize the defendants to build the railroad bridge which they
were building, and which plaintiffs sought to enjoin. The
act which was really the subject of construction, was the act
of 1790, under which plaintiffs claim. For if that act and the
proceedings under it amounted to a contract, and that contract prohibited the kind of structure which the defendants
were about to erect under the act of 1860, then the latter act
must be void as impairing that contract. If on the other hand
the first act and the agreement under it was not a contract,
or if being a contract it did not prohibit the erection of such
a structure as that authorized by the act of 1860, the latter
act was valid, because it did not impair the obligation of a
contract. It was then the act of 1790 which required construction, and not that of 1860, in order to determine whether
the latter was valid or invalid.
In the case of the Jefferson Branch Bank v. Skelly,* this
court says: "Of what use would the appellate power of
this court be to the litigant who feels himself aggrieved by
some particular State legislation, if this court could not decide independently of all adjudication by the Supreme Court
of a State, whether or not the instrument in controversy was
expressive of a contract and within the protection of the Constitution of the United States, and that its obligation should
be enforced notwithstanding a contrary conclusion by the Supreme Court of a State? It never was intended, and cannot
be sustained by any course of reasoning, that this court should
or could, with fidelity to the Constitution of the United States,
follow the Supreme Court of a State in such matters, when it
entertains a different opinion."
We are therefore of opinion, that the record before us pre&ents a case for the revisory power of this court over the State
courts, under the 25th section of the act of Congress of 1789.
Approaching the merits of the case, the first question that
presents itself for solution, is whether the act of 1790, and
the agreement made under it by the commissioners with the
* 1 Black, 436.

VOL .

10

BRIDGE PROPRIETORS V. HOBOKEN CO.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

bridge builders, constitute a contract that no bridge shall b
built within the designated limits, but the two which that
statute authorized. This we think to be so very clear as not
to need argument or illustration. The parties who built the
bridges had the positive enactment of the lcgislatu re, in the
very statute which authorized the contract with them, that no
other bridge should be built. They had a grant of tolls on
their bridges for ninety-nine years, and the prohibition against
the erection of other bridges was the necessary and only means
of securing to them the monopoly of those tolls. Without
this, they would not have invested their money in building
the bridges, which were then much needed, and which could
not have been built without some such security for a permanent and sufficient return for the capital so expended. On
the faith of this enactment they invested the money necessary to erect the bridges. These acts and promises, on the
one side and the other, are wanting in no element necessary
to constitute a contract. Such legislative provisions of the
States have so often been held to be contracts, that a reference to authorities is supelluous.
We are next led, in the natural order of the investigation,
to inquire if the contract of the State forbid the erection of
such a structure as the defendants were authorized to erect,
and which they proposed to erect, under the act of 1860.
This question, upon the decision of which the whole case
must turn, we approach .with some degree of hesitation. It
is now over seventy years since the contract was made. A
period of time equal to three generations of the human race
has elapsed. During that time the progress of the world in
arts and sciences has been rapid. In no department of human
enterprise have more radical changes been made, than in
that which relates to the means of transportation of persons
and property from one point to another, including the means
of crossing water-courses, large and small. The application
of steam to these purposes, on water and on land, has produced a total revolution in the modes in which men and
property are carried from one place to another. Perhaps
the most remarkable invention of modern times, in the in-

Dec. 1863.] BRIDGE PROPRIETORS V. HOBOKEN Co.

147

Opinion of the court.

fluence which it has had, and is yet to have, on the affairs
of the world, as well as in its total change of all the elements
on which land transportation formerly depended, is the railroad system. It is not strange, then, that when we are called
to construe a statute relating to this class of subjects, passed
before a steam engine or a railroad was thought of, in its
application to this modern system, we should be met by difficulties of the gravest character.
On the one hand, we are told that the structure about to
be erected by defendants is a bridge: simply that, and nothing more or less; that such is the name by which it is
now called, and that it is, therefore, within the literal terms
of the act; and that it performs the functions of a bridge,
and is, therefore, within the spirit of the act. On the other
hand, it is denied that the structure is a bridge, even in the
modern sense of that word, since it is urged that the word
is. never applied to such a structure, without the use of the
word railroad, prefixed or implied; and that it performs
none of the functions of a real bridge, as that term was understood in the year 1790.
In all the departments of knowledge, it has been a constant source of perplexity to those who have attempted to
reduce discoveries and inventions to scientific rules and clas.
sifications, that old terms, with well-defined meanings, have
been applied so often to things totally new, either in their
essence or in their combination. It is to avoid the danger
of being misled by the use of a term well understood before,
but which is a very poor representative of the new idea desired to be conveyed, that our modern science is enriched
with so many terms, compounded of Greek and Latin words,
or parts of words. It does not follow, that when a newly
invented or discovered thing is called by some familiar word,
which comes nearest to expressing the new idea, that the
thing so styled is really the thing formerly meant by the
familiar word. Matters most intimately connected with the
immediate subject of our discussion may well illustrate this.
The track on which.the steam-cars now transport the traveller or his property is called a road, sometimes, -perhaps gene-

BRIDGE PROPRIETORS V. HOBOKEN C0.

[SUP. C

Opinion of the court.

rally, a railroad. The term road is applied to it, no doubt,
because in some sense it is used for the same purpose that
roads had been used. But until the thing was made and
seen, no imagination, even the most fertile, could have pictured it, from any previous use of the word road. So we
call the inclosure in which passengers travel on a railroad, a
coach; but it is more like a house than a coach, and is less
like a coach than are several other vehicles which are rarely
if ever called coaches. It does not, therefore, follow, that
when a word was used in a statute or a contract seventy years
since, that it must be held to include everything to which the
same word is applied at the present day. For instance, if a
Philadelphia manufacturer had agreed with a company,
seventy years ago, to furnish all the coaches which might
be necessary to transport passengers between that city and
Baltimore for a hundred years, would he now be required
by. his contract to build railroad coaches? Or, if a company
had then contracted with the Government to build and keep
up good and sufficient roads, to accommodate mails and
passengers between those points, for the same time, would
that company be bound to build railroads under that contract? Yet the structure which the defendants propose to
build over the Hackensack is not more like a bridge of the
olden time than a railroad is like one of its roads, or a railroad coach is like one of its coaches. It is not, then, a
necessary inference, that because the word bridge may now
be applied by common usage to the structure of the defendants, that it was therefore the thing intended by the act
of 1790.
Let us see what kind of structure the defendants proposed
to build.
It is an extension of the iron rails, which compose the
material part of their road, over the Hackensack River, together with such substructure as is necessary to keep them
in place, and enable them to support the cars which cross on
them. There is no planked bottom, no roadway or path,
nothing on which man, or beast, or vehicle can pass, save as
it is carried over in the cars of the defendants. Was this

Dec. 1863.]

BRIDGE PROPRIETORS V. JHOBOKEN CO.

149

Opinion of the court.

kind of thing in the minds of the framers of the act of 1790,
or of the commissioners who let the contract? Or would
the term bridge as then used by them, or by common usage,
have included such a thing? We have no hesitation in an..
swering both these questions in the negative. We are therefore quite clear that the adoption of that word to express
the modern invention, does not bring it within the tcrms
of the act, if it is not within the intent of it. We will
inquire, therefore, a moment, if it is within the spirit of
the act, and the accompanying contract with the commissioners.
There is no doubt that it was the intention of those who
framed those two documents, to confer on the persons now
represented by the plaintiffs, some exclusive privilege for
ninety-nine years. If we can arrive at a clear and precise
idea what that privilege is, we shall perhaps be enabled to
decide whether the erection proposed by defendants will infringe it.
In the first place it is not an exclusive right to transport
passengers and property over the Hackensack and Passaic
Rtivers, within the prescribed limits, for there is no prohibifioi of ferries, nor is it pretended that they would violate the
:ontract. In the next place, it is not a monopoly of the right
to build bridges within the prescribed limits, because they
were only authorized to build one bridge over each river,
and the statute enacted expressly, that it was unlawful to
build any other bridge, by any person or persons, without
excepting them. Besides, the building of a bridge was not
the privilege, but the duty, of those who had the contract;
a duty which constituted the consideration for the privilege
which was granted to them.
The right to collect toll of persons and things passing over
their bridges, is the privilege or franchise which they have,
and that right i; rendered valuable by the prohibition to build
other bridges within the limits designated. This prohibition
of ether bridges is so far a part of the contract, and only so
far, as it is necessary to enable plaintiffs to reap the benefit
of their right to collect toll for the use of their bridges. The

150

BRIDGE PROPRIETORS V. HoBoKEN Co.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

extent to which tolls may be levied by the bridge owners,
and the classes of persons and things on which they may be
levied, are enumerated distinctly, and fixed by the contract.
They may be summed up shortly, as persons on foot, animals, and vehicles, passing over the bridges. If the proposed
structure is essentially calculated to interfere with, or impair
the right of plaintiffs to collect these tolls, we are unable to
see it. No animal can pass over it on foot. No vehicle which
can pass over the bridge of plaintiffs can by any possibility
pass over that of defendants. No class of persons, or things,
of which plaintiffs can exact toll, can evade that toll by using
the structure of defendants. โข
It may be said, that passengers and property now transported by that railroad, would be compelled to use the bridge
of plaintiffs, if there were no such road and no such viaduct.
This might be true to a very limited extent, if plaintiffs could
annihilate all railroads running in the direction of the road
which passes over their bridge. But this they cannot do.
And, as to the road of the defendants, if they are not permitted to pass the Hackensack within the limits claimed by
plaintiffs, they can with more expense cross it somewhere
else. That being done, it is not believed that the number
of passengers, or the amount of freight carried in wagons
which would cross on the bridges of plaintiffs, in consequence of this change in the location of the railroad viaduct,
is appreciable.
As the plaintiffs have no right to build any more bridges,
and as the viaduct of defendants does not impair that which
is really their exclusive franchise, we do not perceive how
the law which authorizes such a structure can impair the
obligation of the contract, made in 1790, by the State, with
the bridge owners.
These views are not without the support of adjudged cases,
which, if not in all respects precisely such as the one before
us, are sufficiently so to show that they were considered, and
entered largely into the reasoning upon which the judgments
of the courts were founded.
In the Mohawk Bridge Company v. The Utica and Schenec

Dec. 1863.] BRiDGE PROPRIETORS V. HOBOKEN Go.

154

Opinion of the court.

tady Railroad Company,* the plaintiffs claimed an exclusive
franchise, similar to that held by plaintiffs in this case, wvhich
rhe defendants, as they alleged, were about tc violate by
erecting a structure for the use of the railroad, over the same
stream, within the prescribed limits. The chancellor refused
the injunction upon the ground that the grant to plaintiffi
was not exclusive, which was at. that time a very doubtful
question in New York; and also upon the ground that the
exclusive right to the toll-bridge would not be infringed by
the erection of a railroad bridge, within the limits over
which the exclusive right extended.
In the case of Thompson -v. The New York and Harlem
Railroad Company,t where the contest was again between a
bridge owner, claiming exclusive rights, and a railroad company seeking to cross the stream within the bounds of plaintiff's claim, the assistant vice-chancellor refers to the case
above mentioned, and says that he refuses the relief on both
the grounds therein mentioned.
The case of XcRee v. The Wilmington and Raleigh -Railroad
Company,$ was an action at law, by the owner of a bridge,
who set up an exclusive franchise, against a railroad company whose track crossed the stream within the limits of his
franchise, for a penalty allowed by statute for any violation
of his right of toll. It is true, that the court rests its decision mainly.on the ground, that by the bill of rights of the
State of North Carolina, no such monopoly as that claimed
by plaintiff can exist. But they argue very forcibly, that a
railroad bridge is no violation of a franchise for an ordinary
toll-bridge, and intimate strongly that they would so hold if
the case required the decision of the point.
The case of the Enfield Toll-Bridge Company v. The Hartford and New Haven Railroad Company,ยง has been cited by
counsel and much relied on, as deciding the principle in
question the other way. And perhaps a fair consideration
of the case, and the line of argument of the learned judge
who delivered the opinion, justifies counsel in claiming that
6 Paige, 564.
2 Jones Law, 186.

t 3 Sanford, 625..
3 17 Connecticut, M5

152

BRIDGE PROPRIETORS v. HOBOKEN CO.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Catron, J.

it is in conflict with the views we have here expressed. In
that case, however, it was found by special verdict, as one
of the facts on which the action of the court was asked, that
the defendants' road and bridge would, to a certain extent,
diminish the tolls of plaintiff; a fact which is not found in
the case before us, and which, as we have already shown,
we cannot infer from its record. What influence this fact
may have had in the minds of that court we cannot say.
We are, however, satisfied that sound principle and the
weight of authority are to be found on the side of the judgment rendered by the New Jersey Court of Errors and Ap
peals in this case; and accordingly that
JUDGMENT IS AFFIRMED.

.Mr. Justice CATRON, after stating the case:
1st. I think this court has jurisdiction. In the court below the question was, whether the monopoly granted to the
turnpike company bound the State not to allow another
bridge to be built within certain limits? Such is the claim
of the bill. The State court held that the contract claimed to
have secured the monopoly was not violated. The contract
was construed, and the correctness of that construction we
are called on to examine.
2d. The State contracted with the turnpike company not
to grant to others the privilege of erecting another bridge
within the limits covered by the monopoly; and the contract was violated, if the railroad bridge would be a structure within the meaning of the charter of the turnpike company. The main question presented is, whether the legislature of New Jersey has the power to convey by contract,
binding their successors (for ninety-nine years, or forever)
not to exercise the sovereign right of improving the State
by additional roads and bridges? If so, then the left bank
of the Delaware and the right bank of the Hudson could be
granted by an irrevocable contract, whose obligation was
beyond the reach of future legislation.
3d. That the bridge being erected by the railroad company is within the meaning of the grant to the turnpike

Dec. 1863.] BRIDGE' PROPRIETORS V. IIOBOKEN CO.

153

Opinion of Grier, J., dissenting.

company, and violates it, is to my mind free from doubt. The
object was to confer a monopoly of crossing the river by the
turnpike bridge only, and that this railroad bridge can, and
probably will, engross the carrying of passengers and freight,
to the injury and probable ruin of the value of the turnpike
bridge, is evident. The legislature, in the railroad charter,
has made careful provision that just compensation shall be
made for private property taken for the purposes of the road;
and as the bridge and abutments are part of the road, it is
assumed by the railroad company that the contract set up
by the bill can be compensated in money. If the turnpike
bridge had been taken by the railroad company, then it is
conceded that a right to compensate existed. But the difficulty of dealing with a sovereign right as private property,
which is claimed by the old corporation, presents the difficulty lying at the foundation of this controversy. Here are
the proprietors of the land on each side of the river, whose
right to just compensation is not open to controversy, if
their lands are taken; their claim is for private property,
and the land is taken by the sovereign right claimed by the
turnpike company. It can only come in to be compensated
for public property, which the eminent domain clearly is.
For the private property taken on either bank of the river,
underlying the eminent domain,the new company has already
paid. But, for this public sovereign right no second compensation is provided by any constitution; it is only in cases
of "private property taken for public use," that just compensation is secured to the owner.
If,
however, I am in error in this assumption, then there
is a provision, plain and simple, in the railroad charter, securing compensation, which obviates all objection to the erection of the railroad bridge, and on this ground I think it
very clear that the bill was properly dismissed.
Mr. Justice GRIER, dissenting:
I do not concur in the opinion just read by my brother
Miller; not that I question the correctness of the judgment
of the Court of Appeals of New Jersey; but this court, by

BRIDGE PROPRIETORS V. HOBOKEN CO.

[SI.p. Ct.

Opinion of Grier, J., dissenting.

affirming their j.udgment as to the true construction of the
act of 1790, have demonstrated that they have no jurisdic.
ion of the case.
The act of 1860, it is clear, is not repugnant to the Constitution or laws of the United States. The proposition that
one legislature can restrain the power of future legislatures
from erecting a bridge for ninety (and if ninety, a thousand)
years, for a distance of ten miles (and if ten, a hundred), will
hardly be asserted by any one.
That a State may, in its exercise of eminent domain, condema a franchise as it might lands, cannot now be disputed.
Now, the act of 1860 protects carefully all the rights of the
defendants under the act of 1790, and requires compensation
to be made them if they are injured.*
The complaint is not that the legislature have passed any
act impairing the obligation of the contract, but that the
courts of New Jersey have misconstrued the act of 1790,
which gives them their franchise. Now, it cannot be pretended that the validity of this act is drawn in question on
the ground of repugnancy to the Constitution. Their own
courts have decided that a railroad viaduct is not a "bridge,"
and.the aim of the plaintiffs in error, by this writ of error, is
to have this court to give a different construction to their
charter. If, besides, the plain words and intention of the
act of Congress conferring jurisdiction on this court under
the 25th section, a decision of this point were necessary to
demonstrate the unwarranted assumption of jurisdiction in
this case, it will be found in the unanimous opinion of this
court in CommercialBank of Cincinnativ. Buckingham.t That
case was decided after very full argument by able counsel.
It was the unanimous judgment of this court. It is precisely in point, and it may be said in this case as in that,
"If this court were to assume jurisdiction of this case,
it is evident that the question submitted for our decision
would be, not whether the statute of Ohio is repugnant to
the Constitution of the United States, but whether the Su* See ante, p. 119 ; note.

REP.

f 5 Howard, 1142.

Dec. 1863.]

JONES V.

MOREHEAD.

Opinion of Grier, J., dissenting.

preme Court of that State has erred in its construction of it.
It is the peculiar province and privilege of the State co arts
to construe their own statutes, and it is no part of the functions of this court to review their decisions, or assume jurisdiction over them on the pretence that their judgments have
impaired the obligation of contracts."
I therefore protest against this decision of the court as
usurpation of jurisdiction not given to us by the Constitution or the acts of Congress. It disregards the plain words
of the statute and the unanimous ruling of this court. If it
be received as a precedent, it will draw to the examination
of this court the construction of every act of incorporation
or grant of a fianchise by a State legislature. The clause
of the Constitution which forbids a State to pass any act
impairing the obligation of contracts will have to be construed as a general power given to the courts of the United
States to restrain the courts of a State from making mistakes
in the construction of their own statutes.
The opinion of my brethren of the majority, in order to
sustain this assumption of jurisdiction, takes it for granted
that, as a franchise is a contract, a State, in the exercise of
its right of eminent domain, cannot condemn a franchise by
paying its value, as well as the land of an individual. This
is directly contrary to frequent decisions of this court. Yet
such is the act of 1860. As I have said, it carefully saves
the rights of plaintiffs, and directs compensation to be made
in case of any injury to the same. I cannot give my assent
to a decision founded on such an assumption, or which may
hereafter be quoted to establish such a doctrine.

JONES ET AL. V. MOREHEAD.
1. The claim of Sherwood, under his patent, granted in 1842, and extended
in 1856, for "a new and useful improvement in door-locks"-so far as
the claim-is for "making the eases of door-locks and latches doublefaced, or so finished that either side may be used for the outside, in order
that the same lock or cased fastening may answer for a rigbt or left

