:EAMES

v.

GODFREY.

[Sup. Ct,

Statement of the case.

EAMES

v.

GODFREY.

Where a patent is for a combination of distinct and designated parts, it is
not infringed by a combination which varies from that patented, in the

omission of one of the operative parts and the substitution therefor of
another part substantially different ir its construction and operation,
but serving the same purpose.
GODFREY sued Eames in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Massachusetts, in an action on the
case for infringing a patent for a new and useful improvement in boot-trees, of which patent he, Godfrey, was the
assignee. The defendant pleaded Not Guilty, and gave notice
of special matters of defence. The case was tried by a jury,
who found the defendant guilty, and assessed the damages
at $2177.50.
The patent was for a combination of mechanical powers
for a new and useful improvement in boot-trees, and included a certain mechanism for distending the leg of the boottree. The plaintiff did not claim that the defendant had used
the same mechanism that he did for distending the leg of the
boot-tree, but that the defendant had used all the other parts
of his combination, and that the mechanism which the defendant used, although differing in construction and operation
from that described in the patent, yet performed the same
function. The defendant contended, that not having used
the mechanism described in the patent for distending the
leg of the boot-tree, although he had used the other parts
of the combination, he was not guilty of infringing the
patent, and requested the court so to rule. The court refused to rule as requested, but instructed the jury, "that to
make out an infringement of the claim for combination, it
was not necessary for the plaintiff to show that the mechanism for distending used by the defendant and its mode of
operation were the same with that described in the plaintiff's
patent for the purpose of distending the boot-ree; and that
if said mechanism for distending the leg, &c., used by the
defendant, was not the same mechanism,.operating in the
same manner as that described in the plaintiff's patent for

Dec. 1863.]

[EAMES

v).

GODFREY.

Opinion of the court.

the same purpose; still if there were in the defendant's
machine a mechanism performing the same function as that
performed by plaintiff's distending mechanism, and if this
was combined with the other parts in the manner in which
the distending mechanism described in the plaintiff's patent
was combined, it was an irfingement of said patent, and
the defendant would be liable therefor."
The defendant excepted to the instructions given, and the
refusal of the court to instruct as prayed for.
On error here, the instructions and refusal, as aforesaid,
were the points before this court.
. M1fr. F. A. Brooks for the ylaintiff in error; 1r. Causten
Browne, contra.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court:
The patent in controversy was for a combination of mechanical powers to effect a useful result, and such a patent
differs essentially in its principles from one where the subject-matter is new.
The law is well settled by repeated adjudications in this
court and the Circuit Courts of the United States, that there
is no infringement of a patent which claims mechanical
powers in combination unless all the parts have been substantially used. The use of a part less than the whole is no
infringement.
In Prouty & M ears v. 1uggles,* the law is well considered.
The patent there was for the combination of certain parts of
a plough, arranged together so as to produce a certain effect.
The suit was for an infringement. The court below had
charged the jury, that unless the whole combination was substantially used in the defendant's plough it was no violation of
the plaintiff's patent. Chief Justice Taney, in deciding the
case, said: "NNone of the parts referred to are new, and none
are claimed as new; nor is any portion of the combination
less than the whole claimed as new, or stated to produce any
given result. The end in view is proposed to be accom* 16 Peters, 841.

EAMES V. GODFREY.

[Slip. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

plished by the union of all, arranged and combined together
in the manner described. The use of any two of these parts
only, or of two combined with a third, which is substantially
different in form or in the manner of its arrangement and
connection with the others, is, therefore, not the thing patented. It is not the same combination if it substantially
differs from it in any of its parts."
Testing this case by these principles, the court erred in
charging the jury as it did, and in refusing to instruct as
asked by the defendant. There is nothing in the record
that shows in what manner the mechanism used by Eams,
in distending the leg of the boot-tree, differed from that
claimed in the patent. It is stated that the mechanism used
by Eames was different in its construction and operation,
but how far the difference extended we are left to conjecture. It is fair to presume, in the absence of proof, that it
was essentially different. If, however, the mechanism used
by Eames was not substantially different in its form or the
manner of its arrangement from the mechanism used by
Godfrey, there was an infringement; but this was a question
that should have been left to the jury to pass on. The court
laid down a broad rule without qualification,--that although
Eames's mechanism for distending the leg of the boot-tree
did differ in its construction and operation from that patented, yet if it performed the same functions as the mechanism in the combination, there was an infringement. This
view of the law was wrong on principle and authority.
Eames had a right to use any of the parts in Godfrey's
combination, if he did not use the whole; and if he used all
the parts but one, and for that substituted another mechanical structure substantially different in its construction and
operation, but serving the same purpose, he was not guilty
of an infringement.
JUDGMENT REVERSED AND VENIRE AWARDED.

