512

[Sup. Ct

ROOSEVELT V. MEYE.R.
Statement of the case.

as described, and combined and operating in the particular
way described, for the special purpose of effecting the described result.
'When viewed in that light, it is equally clear that the
charge of the court was erroneous, because there was an
important question of fact which should have been left to
the jury, whether the machines introduced by the defendants or any of them, or any of the prior movable pressblocks, as is shown in the admission, were substantially the
same as the machine of the patentee. American authorities,
at least, hold that every such question is one for the jury,
and upon that ground alone we have come to the conclusion
that the judgment in this case must be reversed.
Judgment of the Circuit Court is accordingly reversed,
with costs, and the cause remanded with direction to issue a
NEw

VENIRE.

ROOSEVELT V. MEYER.
Where a certificate, coming up with the record from the highest court of
law or equity of a State, certifies only that on the "hearing" of the case
a party "relied upoa" such and such provisions of the Constitution of the
United States, "insisting" that the effect was to render an act of Congress void, as unconstitutional, which said claim, the record went on to
say, "was overruled and disallowed by this court," and the record itself
shows nothing except that the statute which it was argued contravened
these provisions, was drawn in question, and that the decision was in
favor of the statute. and of the rights set up by the party relying on it;
no writ of error lies from this court to such highest State court under
the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act of 1789.

Mi. RoELKER, of counsel for the defendant in error in this
case, moved the court to dismiss the writ of error for want
of jurisdiction: the case being thus:
The Judiciary 'Act of 1789 (ยง 25) provides that this court
may review the judgment of the highest court of a State in
cases "where is drawn in question the construction of any
clause of the Constitution, or of a . . statute of . . the United

Dec. 1863.-]

DROOSEVELT -. MEYER.
Statement of the case.

States, and the decision is against the title, right,,privilege,
or exemption specially set up or claimed by either party
under such ciause of the said Constitution, statute," &c. And
the Constitution aforesaid, by Article I, section 8, clause 5,
gives power to Congress to establish "uniform laws on the
subject of bankruptcies." By Articles 5, 9, and 10, of certain
amendments to the same, it declares that "no person shall
be deprived of life, liberty, or property, without due process
of law; nor shall private property be taken for public use
without just compensation ;" and makes some other provisions not specially important to be mentioned.* With these
constitutional provisions in force, Congress, on the 25th of
February, 1862, passed an act authorizing the issue of United
States notes, which notes the act declared should be "lawful
money and a legal tender in payment of all debts, public and pri.
vate," except duties on imports, and interest on the Federal
debt.
In this state of things, as appeared from a case stated for
the Supreme Court of New York, Mleyer, plaintiff in that
case, desiring to pay a bond and mortgage which he had
assumed to pay, and which were held by Roosevelt, defendant in it, as original mortgagee, tendered to the latter the
sum of $8171, being the full amount of principal and interest,
in notes of the United States, issued under the act of Congress, aforesaid.. Roosevelt refused to receive the same as
legal tender, and claimed that the repayment should be made
in gold coin of the United States. The case stated for the
Supreme Court of New York went on as follows:
"It was thereupon agreed by and between the said parties
that the defendant should receive, and he accordingly did receive,
the said sum of $8170 in said notes of the United States, conditionally, and that the question whether the said notes of the
* They run tbus:

Ar& 9. The enumeration in the Constitution of certain rights shall not be
construed to deny or disparage others retained by the people.
Art. 10. The powers not delegated to the United States by this Conbtitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States respectively or to the people.
VOL. 1.

83

ROOSEVELT V. M'EYER.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

United States are and were a legal tender in payment of said
mortgage debt and interest should be submitted to a court hay
ing jurisdiction.
" The question submitted to the Supreme Court of New Yorx
upon this case is:
"Were the said notes of the United States a legal tender on the
part of the plaintiff
"If the court shall decide this question in the affirmative, then
judgment is to be rendered for plaintiff, ordering the defendant
to deliver up said bond and mortgage to be cancelled, and to
acknowledge satisfaction thereof, and discharge the same of record.
"If, on the other hand, the court shall decide the said question in the negative, then judgment is to be rendered in favor
of defendant, ordering the plaintiff to pay the additional sum of
dollars,* with interest from
three hundred and twenty-six .o%%
the l1th day of June, 1862; and that upon the payment of this
sum, with interest, the defendant acknowledge satisfaction of
said bond and mortgage, and discharge the same of record, and
deliver up the said bond and mortgage to be cancelled."
The Supreme Court of the State decided the question in
the negative, and judgment was rendered for the defendant.
The plaintiff appealed to the Court of Appeals of the State
of N~ew York, the highest court of the State, and that court
reversed the decision of the court below, and rendered judgment in his favor, and in their order for judgment add the
following:
"And it is hereby certified and stated by this court that the
defendant and respondent on the hearing of this case, relied hpon
certain provisions in the Constitution of the United States,
namely Article I, section 8, clause 5, of the said Constitution,
and Articles 5, 9, and 10 of the amendments thereof, the effect
of which, as the said respondent insisted, was, that the debt,
owing to the said respondent upon and by virtue of the bond
This was admitted to be the difference at 4 per cent. between the market value of the notes, on the day of tender, and gold coin of the United
States

Dec. 1863.]

ROO0SEVELT V. M EYERt.

Argument in favor of dismissal.

and mortgage mentioned in the submission of the case, could
not be paid against the will of the said creditor in anything but
gold or silver coin, and that the said claim of the respondent wiis
overruled and disallowed by thfis court."
Roosevelt, the defendant, and now plaintiff in error, thereupon brought a writ of error under the twenty-fifth section
of the Judiciary Act of 1789, which writ the defendant in
error now moved to dismiss, on-the ground that this court
has no jurisdiction, inasmuch as the highest court of law and
equity of the State, in which a decision in the suit could be
had, decided in favor of the validity of the act of Congress
of 25th of February, 1862, which was the only statute of the
United States drawn in question in the case.
Mr. .?oelker, in support of Ids motion: The certificate does
not state, that the points referred to were especially set up
by the plaintiff, but only that on the hearing, i. e. on argument of the case, the plaintiff relied upon the sections of the
Constitution referred to. It is evident that the plaintiff in
error, by way of argument against the constitutional validity
of the act of 1862, relied upon the sections of the Constitution to demonstrate that the act is unconstitutional and
invalid. This is insufficient. The'record should show, by
just inference at least, that these questions were made, and
that the court below must, in order to have arrived at the
judgment pronounced by it, have come to the decision of
those questions, as indispensable to that judgment.* The
question regarding the validity of any act of Congress will
always involve the construction of one or more sections of
the Constitution. The validity of an act depends upon the
power of Congress to pass it, and this power depends upon
the Constitution, as the source of all its powers. Either
party in any suit, where such a question arises, must claim
under some section of the Constitution, for or against the
validity of the act. If the decision is in favor of the validity,
* Wilison v. Blackbira Creek Marsh Co., 2 Peters, 245, 250; Harris v.
Dennie, 8 Id., 292, 802; Williams v. Norris, 12 h'eaton, 117.

516

ROOSEVELT V. MITER.

[Sup. Ct

Argument against dismissal.

it may, in one sense, be said that what the other party claimed
was disallowed, but not in the sense of the Judiciary Act.
lwssrs. Schaff and Henry, contra: The record in this cause,
we think, does show that there was drawn in questionf in
the court below the true construction of certain clauses of
the Constitution, to wit, Article I, clause 5, section 8, and
Articles 5, 9, and 10 of the amendments; and it shows
further, that the decision of the court below was against
the right claimed by Roosevelt thereunder. By such adverse decision he is entitled to an appeal. The Court of
Appeals, in fact, took special care to insure justice as far
as it lay in their power to both parties, by so framing the
judgment that no doubt could exist as to its appealable character, and evidently with this intent they made the particular certificate which they did. That certificate comes here
as part of the record.
Under the several clauses of the Constitution mentioned
in it, but particularly under Article 5 of the amendments,
Roosevelt claimed as a right ofproperty, sacred under the fundamental law of the Union, that he could not, by the operation of the act of 'February, 1862, directly or indirectly be
deprived of his property without due process of good constitutional law, and that therefore he could not be made
against his will to accept asfall payment and discharge of a
debt of $8171 due to him from Meyer, certain paper securities of the United States, called Legal Tender Notes, the
market value of which at the time of their tender to him
was only $7844.22, or about $326.78 less than the debt, and
the effect of which tender would be, if enforced, to confiscate
to the use of the debtor Meyer a portion, to wit, $326.78 of
said debt.
The clause of the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary
Act, relied on, which gives an appeal to the citizen where
the decision of the State court is against a right claimed
under and depending upon the construction of any clause of
the Constitution is, in fact, coextensive with the provision
of the Constitution which extends the judicial power of the

Dec. 1863.]

R OOSEVELT V. MVEYER.

Opinion of the court.

Supreme Court to "all cases in law and equity ariWng under
this Constitution;" and no construction of the Judiciary
Act can be made to deprive the citizens of the United States
of the protection guaranteed to them by that article.
The leading case on this subject is Cohens v. Virginia;* a
case elaborately argued and by numerous counsel. Responding to positions which had been maintained at the bar, and
which would have narrowed the meaning of the expression,
Marshall, C. J., announced it as the opinion of the court,
that "a case in law or equity may be truly said to arise
under the Constitution, or a law of the United States, whenever its correct decision depends on the construction of
either;" and that great expositor of our Constitution and
early statutes declared that he "who would withdraw any
case of this description from that jurisdiction must sustain
the exemption they claim on the spirit and true meaning of
the Constitution; which spirit and meaning must be so
apparent as to overrule the words which its framers have
employed."
At a subsequent day, Mr. Justice WAYNTE delivered the
opinion of the court.
He stated it to be the conclusion of their honors, upon an
examination of the record, that as the validity of the act of
February 25th, 1862, was drawn in question, and the judgment of the Court of Errors and Appeals of the State of
New York was in favor of it, and of the right set up by the
defendant, this court had no jurisdiction to reverse that
judgment; that the dismissal of the case was accordingly to
be directed. In support of the decision which he announced
the learned Justice referred to various cases in this court
which are mentioned in the note below.t
MOTION GRANTED.

:NELSONg, J., dissenting.
, 6
heaton 879.
t Gordon v. Caldcleugh, 3 Cranch, 268; Fulton v. MeAffee, 16 Peters,
149; Strader v. Baldwin, 9 Howard, 261; Linton v. Stanton, 12 Id., 423.

