Dec. 1863.]

JONES V.

MOREHEAD.

Opinion of Grier, J., dissenting.

preme Court of that State has erred in its construction of it.
It is the peculiar province and privilege of the State co arts
to construe their own statutes, and it is no part of the functions of this court to review their decisions, or assume jurisdiction over them on the pretence that their judgments have
impaired the obligation of contracts."
I therefore protest against this decision of the court as
usurpation of jurisdiction not given to us by the Constitution or the acts of Congress. It disregards the plain words
of the statute and the unanimous ruling of this court. If it
be received as a precedent, it will draw to the examination
of this court the construction of every act of incorporation
or grant of a fianchise by a State legislature. The clause
of the Constitution which forbids a State to pass any act
impairing the obligation of contracts will have to be construed as a general power given to the courts of the United
States to restrain the courts of a State from making mistakes
in the construction of their own statutes.
The opinion of my brethren of the majority, in order to
sustain this assumption of jurisdiction, takes it for granted
that, as a franchise is a contract, a State, in the exercise of
its right of eminent domain, cannot condemn a franchise by
paying its value, as well as the land of an individual. This
is directly contrary to frequent decisions of this court. Yet
such is the act of 1860. As I have said, it carefully saves
the rights of plaintiffs, and directs compensation to be made
in case of any injury to the same. I cannot give my assent
to a decision founded on such an assumption, or which may
hereafter be quoted to establish such a doctrine.

JONES ET AL. V. MOREHEAD.
1. The claim of Sherwood, under his patent, granted in 1842, and extended
in 1856, for "a new and useful improvement in door-locks"-so far as
the claim-is for "making the eases of door-locks and latches doublefaced, or so finished that either side may be used for the outside, in order
that the same lock or cased fastening may answer for a rigbt or left

JONES V. MOREHEAD.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
hand door, substantially as described;" that is to say, thefirst claim in
his schedule, is for a thing which is not original with him and void.
And the question is raised by the court, but not decided, whether "the
making of the case which incloses the internal works of the lock, with
two faces just alike, and so well finished-off in point of style, that either
side may be presented outwards, is a matter which could be patented, if
no locks with such cases had ever been made before?"
2. This Tart of the invention known as the Janus-faced lock, not being original, no action lies by Sherwood or his assignees, for using it in combination with other inventions not patented by that person; nor can
persons so using it be made infringers by an argument which, assuming
the validity of Sherwood's invention, mingles it with these other parts,
and then treats the whole as a unit, and gives to him or his assignees
damages equivalent to the net profits on the manufacture of the entire
lock.
3. Where parties in their answer, as originally filed, to a bill for infringing
a patent, admit that they did manufacture and sell the articles alleged
to have been patented, the fact thus admitted in the answer must be
accepted as established. As, however, the admission need go no further
than its terms necessarily imply, the court will, under special circumstances, and where this is promotive of'justice, assume that the smallest
number of articles were made consistent with the use of the word involved, in the plural, and with the use by the defendants of any part
of the patent which is valid.

THis was a bill filed in the Circuit Court for the Western
District of Pennsylvania, to restrain the infringement of a
patent for protecting the manufacture of a certain sort of
door-locks, called Janus-faced locks, and for an account; the
parties to the suit being two large manufacturing firms in
the city of Pittsburg. The history of the invention or claim
of invention in question, was essentially thus: Till within a
few years past most of the door-locks used in this country,
were imported from England. It was thought desirable,
therefore, to have, invent, or use some plan by which this article could be obtained more cheaply and better than the iraported, notwithstanding the higher price of labor here; the
article of door-locks being one of immense consuml.tion in
this country. This object was in part effected by making
the locks of cast iron; but some difficulty in the way of
these cheaper productions was thought to exist in the fact
that door-locks had to be made "right and left," and that a
lock made for a right-hand door had to be turned upside

Dec. 1863.]

JO,\,Es V. MOEEHE .D.
Statement of the case.

down in order to be used on a left-hand door, and vice versa.
It was conceived, therefore, that if this difficulty of right
and left hand locks was obviated, and every lock made
equally capable of use on right or left hand doors, an advantage might be gained. An American, named Sherwoodunder whom the complainants claimed-conceiving that he
had invented a mode of effecting the object, and that finishing
a lock on both faces was an invention and proper subject for
letters, procured a patent in 1842 (extended in 1856), and
established a manufactory of this sort of lock. His patent
was for "a new and useful improvement in door-locks."
The language of his schedule was as follows:
"What I claim as my invention, and for which I desire an
exclusive right by letters patent, is, making the cases of doorlocks and latches double-faced, or so finished that either side may
be used for the outside, in order that the same lock or casedfastening
may answerfor a right or left hand door, substantially as described.
"I also claim the peculiar construction and double action
(upon an inclined and horizontal track or way) of the locking
car B, as bereinbefore described, and the combination of the
locking car B and safety cars G G2 with one another, and with
the connecting or vibrating bar and bolt A, as within described,
so as to fasten the bolt c securely and prevent its being picked.
"I also claim so constructing the bolt as hereinbefore described, that by simple turning it over in the lock-ease, it is
adapted to a right or left-hand door."
But the two improvements claimed in the second and
third of these claims, were superseded soon after Sherwood
had obtained his patent, by the invention of a certain Calvin
Adams,-this Adams being a member of the firm who were the
deft-ndants in this suit. lie, applying his improvement in the
specific internal arrangement to the case of the lock, as
Sherwood had claimed and obtained a patent for that, made
a new combination, called the Janus-faced lock, whose manufacture, the complainants-successors to Sherwood's rights
-had brought this bill to restrain and have an account of.
It waq not proved nor argued that the defendants had used

JONES V. MOREHEAD.

[Sup. of.

Statement of the case.

any part of Sherwood's patent, except the double-faced casing.
In fact, no locks with the particular internal mechanism
specified in Sherwood's patent were ever made, except one
or two made by Sherwood himself.
The defendants below answered the bill, admittiny that they
had made locks of the kind described in the p~atent, and claiming
that they were the rightful owners of that patent from Sherwood, and therefore had a right to manufacture those locks.
Upon this issue considerable testimony was taken, when the
defendants becoming satisfied that they were not the legal
owners of the patent, asked leave to amend their answer by
denying that they had ever made locks of the kind described in it;
and by asserting that the patent was invalid for want of
novelty. The Circuit Court permitted them to assert the
invalidity of the patent as wanting novelty, but refused to
allow them to deny that they had manufactured the locks described
in it. The admission that they had manufactured them stood,
therefore, on the record as it came up to this court.
On the trial below-under the defence of 'vant of originality-great numbers of locks were brought into court, many
of which were older than Sherwood's, and were undoubtedly
cased on both sides. Certain ones were particularly relied
on: two from the gates of the NTew York City Hall; one
from the Custom House in that city; one or more from the
City Hospital, and one from the gate of St. Mark's Church.
Several manufacturers of reputation, who were offered as
experts, testified that in their'opinion these were not essentially different in principle from Mr. Sherwood's lock. The
counsel below for Sherwood's patent argued, however, that
no one of these locks had been made with an intention to obviate the difficulty of having right and left hand locks, or
that practically any of them had been so used, or that aiy
person, before Sherwood, in seeing one of them, had thus applied them, or perceived that they could be so applied. He
contended, with a greater or lees degree of force, that the
Custom House lock was, in fact, from an open outdoor gate;
that its inside was covered tight, in order to preserve the
works of the lock from the weather and from rust,-a device

Dec. 1863.]

JONES V. M

rOiiEAD.

159

Statement of the case.

necessary in all outdoor gate locks; that it was not well
suited for a Janus-faced lock, and was finished on one side
only; that it was a left-hand lock, and not a door-lock properly speaking, at all. The lock taken from the City Hospital
gate, he argued, was a dead lock, a right-hand lock; though
he admitted, that by putting it wrong side out, and making
some alterations, it might be converted into a left-hand dead
lock. The same lie thought was to be said of the gate-lock
of St. Mark's Church, and of all the others. The Circuit
Court reporter, in reporting the case, says, however (see
Legal Intelligencer, vol. xviii, p. 293): "And yet undoubtedly to the eye of high inventive genius, the finished production of Sherwood was visible in nearly every one of these ruder
productions. It required but the vital spark of genius to
kindle the train, and to convert, in an instant, the manufacture designed for one purpose, into an object applicable to
quite another." The question, of course, was one, in a large
degree, of inspection.
The locks which were exhibited
below, having been made exhibits in the case, were now all
exhibited here.
The Circuit Court entirely sustained Sherwood's claim;
remarking, that although the makers of these other locks
were near inventing the "double face," and might have done
so,-if they had only thought of it,-yet that these persons
had not actually invented it, or certainly had. not so done
it as to make their discovery practically useful. The testimony of the experts, the court conceived, "when analyzed,
amounted to this, and no more: that these gate-locks, being
covered on the inside, might, by a little change, have been
made into Janus-faced locks, though not so intended by the
maker,"-a fact which was now apparent to any mechanic
who had the patented invention before him.
The injunction prayed for was accordingly granted, and a
reference for an account ordered. The injunction restrained
the defendants from "making, constructing, vending, or
-using in any way the said invention and improvements, or
either of them, or any part thereof, mentioned and described
in the sa d patent."

[Sup. Ct.

JONES V. MOIREHEAD.
Statement of the case.

Upon the coming in of the account as settled by the
master,-the account being settled in part upon proofs adduced by the complainants as to the fact and extent of the defendants' manufacture of these locks, the original admission being
apparently not relied on,-it appeared that the net profits upon
all the locks (including every part of the locks), which the
defendants made or sold, were $13,282.92. The complain
ants claimed this entire sum; and indeed that it should be
"trebled." The defendants denied that they were liable to
profits on the whole lock, or for any profits except those properly springing fr-om the case of the lock; that part of it
alone of which Sherwood claimed to be the inventor, and
of which, notwithstanding their resistance, he had just been
declared by the court the rightful patentee. They contended that the court should apportion this sum of $13,282.
92, reported as their profits, to the different parts of the lock;
the profits on each part being fixed on an arithmetical proportion to the cost of each. The account, then, would stand
thus:
Profits on the case (the "improvement" for which Sherwood

got his patent),
..
latch and keeper,
other parts of the lock,.
trimmings,

.

3,123
1,221
4,677
4,360

48
53
01
90

$13,282 92

The said Circuit Court, however, was not of this opinion;
conceiving that although a patentee might describe bis invention as an improvement, still, if the machine constituted a
distinct machine,-a specific article known in the market,on account of its peculiar functions, the measure of damages
lbr infringement was the profit on the whole machine. The
view was thus set forth by the judge delivering the opinion
of that court:
"The great question recurs: Is this Janus-faced lock a peculiar
and distinct machine, introduced into market as a cheaper and
better article than other machines without the peculiar characteristic of the patented one?

Does the value of the patent to

its owners consist in the close monopoly of the right to make

Dec. 1863.]

JONES V). MOREHEAD.
Statement of the case.

and sell this species of lock as one individual machine? Has it
pec-liar characteristics which distinguish it from other machines
of the same genus, and which give it a peculiar value in the
market? If so, the complainants have a right to demand that
the defendants, having infringed their exclusive right to make
and sell this peculiar machine or manufacture, are justly liable
to refund all the net profits made by such infringement. If, on
the contrary, the patent is for some addition or improvement
on an old and well-known implement, or some separate part or
device thereof of small importance compared with the whole,if the license to use the improvement or addition was sold as
separate and distinct from the whole machine, the measure of
damage would be the price of a license, and not the profit made
by the exclusive right to make and sell the whole machine."
[The Circuit Court next stated that Court's idea as to the
originality and merits of the invention, and continued]:
"The claim of the Sherwood patent was, for ' making the case
of door-locks and latches double-faced, or so finished that either
side may be used for the outside.' The arrangements of the internal parts of the lock, and devices necessary to such a lock,
are set forth in the specification. They were rather complex,
and required that, in order to change the lock from a right-hand
to a left-hand lock, that it should be opened and some change
made in the position and arrangement of the internal parts
For the purpose of the present discussion it is unnecessary to
describe these devices. The name ' Janus-faced' locks was given
to this machine to distinguish it from others which had not its
peculiar qualities.
"Nqow, it is evident, that although the patent of Sherwood
may be said to be for an improvement in the manufacture of
locks, a well-known implement or machine; nevertheless, the
lock contrived by him was a new and distinct species, having
certain qualities differing from all other locks; that the Janusfaced lock is a specific article (although of the genus lock),
known in the market, having peculiar value; and that the value
of the monopoly granted by the patent consisted in the exclusive
right to manufacture this peculiar machine without any competition, and have all the profits of such a monopoly. The respond'ents have made large gains by trespassing on the .rights of
the complainants. The profits they made by this trespass justly
11
VOL. I

JONES V. MOREHEAD.

[Sup. CL

Opinion of the court.

belong to the true owner. They have partaken equally with
the complainants in the profits of the monopoly granted to them
alone, without license, and in defiance of their rights. The only
measure of the redress to which the complainants are entitled
is an account of the actual profits made by respondents. The
machine being a unit,--a specific article well known in the market, having peculiar value because of the patentee's discovery
or invention,-the attempt to arbitrarily divide the profits of
the monopoly of the whole machine among its parts is without
precedent, and receives no countenance from the case of Seymour
v. _McCormick,* which has been relied on for an opposite idea."
The court accordingly confirmed the master's report giving
to the complainants the whole profits, $13,282.92; and decree
was entered accordingly.
Appeal to this court now brought before it,1. The originality of Sherwood's invention as set forth (ante,
p. 157) in hisfirst claim,-the claim, to wit, in these words:
"What I claim as my invention, and for which I desire an
exclusive patent, is making the cases of door-locks and
latches double-faced, or so finished that either side may be
used for the outside, in order that the same lock or cased
fastening may answer for a right or left hand door, substantially as described."
2. The correctness of the idea of unity in machines as held,
apparently,from this record, by the court below.
The case was argued by Mr. Gifford for the appellant, and
by Messrs. Browning and Bakewell contra.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court:
It is the first claim as set forth which defendants charge
to be invalid for want of novelty, and in this we think they
are sustained by the testimony.
Indeed it may be doubted if the making of the case which
incloses the internal works of the lock, with two faces just
alike, and so well finished off in point of style that either
side may be presented outwards, is a matter which could be
* 16 Howard, 480.

Dec. 1863.]

JONES V. MOREHEAD.
Opinion of the court.

patented, if no locks with such cases had ever been made
before. But we are not called on to decide this point, and
therefore pass it without further comment.
Several locks were produced on the trial below, and were
shown to us here-beingmade exhibits bythe record-which
we are satisfied are the same in principle as the double faces
of the Sherwood lock. Two of these locks are from the gates
of the INew York City Hall. They are cased both sides alike,
inclosing the internal works completely, and are so finished
that one side may be presented outward as well as the other,
and the locks can be applied to a door swinging from right
to left, or from left to right. Locks from the City Hospitals
having the double-faced case, both sides alike, have also been
produced, and one from the entrance gate of St. Mark's
Church. A lock from the Custom House is shown, which has
the double-faced case, both sides alike, and which by being
turned laterally, can be used for a door opening either to the
right or left, without even turning the keyhole upside down.
These locks are all proven to have been in use several
years before Sherwood set up any claim to his invention.
They are taken from the most public places in the great
commercial city of the Union. These facts are incompatible
with the claim of novelty on the part of Sherwood, for this
part of his patent.
As to the two remaining claims in the schedule accompanying the patent, it appears clearly that they were never infringed by defendants. In fact no locks were ever made
with the particular internal arrangements as to bolts, latches,
&c., specified in Sherwood's patent, except one or two by
Sherwood.
Very shortly after he obtained his patent, one Calvin
Adams made an improvement upon it, which entirely supersetled the use of the specific internal arrangement claimed
by Sherwood in his invention. Combining this improvement
with the double-faced case of Sherwood, Adams made a lock
which has ever since been known as the Janus-faced lock,
and which is the lock manufactured by complainants, of
whom Mr. Adams is one.

JONES V. MOREHEAD.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

It is not shown by any proof in the case, that defendants
ever used any part of Sherwood's patent, except the doublefaced casing. Nor is it seriously claimed in argument that
they did. But it is urged that this double-faced case, when
used in connection with a latch or bolt and keeper, susceptible of such an arrangement that it may be placed upon a
door opening either to the right or left, constitutes a unit,
and the real invention of Sherwood, which is infringed by
the defendants.
This mode of viewing the matter cannot be admitted.
Sherwood claims that he is the inventor of three distinct
parts going to make up his lock, which thus made up answers a certain purpose, namely, a lock capable of being applied indifferently to a door opening from the right or left.
Two of these claims have been long since superseded by other
improvements, and abandoned by everybody, and have never
been used by the defendants. The other claim which they
have used is found to be invalid for want of novelty. What
is left of the Sherwood patent? It is clear that no part of
the patent which is valid has been used by defendants, and
they cannot be made infringers by an argument that mingles the valid and invalid parts of a patent, and calls it a
unit; and then claims that defendants are infringers because
they have used one part of this unit, although it was a part
as to which the patent is void.
It therefore appears that, in point of fact, the defendants
have not infringed the Sherwood patent, and if we were unembarrassed by the pleadings, we should dismiss the bill
with costs.
But the defendants have admitted in their answer, that
they did make locks as described in Sherwood's patent, and
when they afterwards asked leave of the court to retract
that admission and deny the infringement, the court refused
such permission. This request was made after the issue was
made up, after much testimony bad been taken, and its object was to deny a fact previously admitted under oath. It
was a matter in the discretion of the Circuit Court, and we
are not disposed to review its action on that subject here,

Dec. 1863.]

JONES Y. M
VOREHEAD.
Opinion of the court.

under these circumstances, if indeed it can be done under
any.
An effort has been made by counsel to show that this admission has been waived, by the act of plaintiff, in going
into the proois, and otherwise treating it as an open question. But this would violate a principle of universal application, both in proceedings at common law and in chancery,
to wit, that the proofs must correspond with the allegations.
It would be subversive of all sound practice, and tend largely
to defeat the ends of justice, if the court should refuse to
accept a fact as settled, which is distinctly alleged in the
bill, and admitted in the answer.*
The fact that the defendants did manufacture and sell locks
of the character of those patented by Sherwood, must be
accepted as established in this case by the pleadings. The
admission, however, need go no further than its terms necessarily imply. The language of the admission is satisfied,
by assuming that the smallest number of locks were made,
consistent with the use of that word in the plural, and with
the use by defendants of any part of the patent which is
valid.
The Circuit Court, by its decree, ordered an injunction,
restraining defendants from making, using, and vending
said invention, or any part tlhereof, mentioned in said patent;
and the payment by defendants to plaintiffs of $13,282.92
profits made by them.
The result of the views we have expressed is, that this
decree must be reversed, and the injunction modified so as
to restrain the defendants from using any part of the Sherwood patent, except that embraced in the first claim of invention mentioned in the schedule attached to said patent,
and a decree rendered for a nominal sum of one dollar for
profits.
The appellants in this court must.recover their costs.
DECREE ACCORDINGLY.
* Crocket v. Lee, 7 Wheaton, 522.

