UNITED STATES V. ESTUDILLO.

[Sup. Ot

Syllabus.

of this case that the land claimed by appellees has been confirmed to any other person. The appellees are not represented here by counsel, to affirm or deny that fact stated by
the counsel of the government. When the appellant ap-

pears by counsel, and makes the point that this court has no
jurisdiction of the case, and supports that argument by the
statement of a fact which sustains the point, we are certainly
at liberty to assume that fact to be true as against the appellant, and dismiss his appeal. But when he asks us to go a
step further, and adjudicate on the rights of the appellee, by
reversing a decree in his favor, we must have some other
evidence of that fact than the statement of the appellant's
counsel.
But conceding it to be true for all purposes that the land
in question has been confirmed by a decree of the District
Court to another party, there is nothing to show whether
that decree is prior or subsequent in date to the one now
before us; or which claim was first presented to the Board
of Commissioners for its action. We might, therefore, be
doing the present claimant great injustice in reversing his
decree and leaving another claim for the same land to stand
aflirmed in favor of some other person, while we can by no
possibility injure the United States by dismissing an appeal
in a case where it is evident that the government has no
interest, and which can only be protract.ing the litigation for
the benefit of one individual in his contest with another.
APPEAL DISMISSED.

UNIED STATES V. ESTUDILLO.
An appeal of a case originating below under the statute of June 14, 1860,
relating to surveys of Mexican grants in California, and in which the
appellants appear on the record as The United States, simply (no intervenors being named), remains within the control of the attorneygeneral; and a dismissal of the case under the 29th rule of this court
is not subject to be vacated on the application of parties whose names
do not actually appear in the record as having an interest in the case,
even although it is obvious that below there were some private owners

Dec.1863.]

UNITED STATES V. ESTUDILLO.
Statement of the case.

contesting the case under cover of the government name, and that
some such were represented by the same counsel who now profess to
represent them here. SwA.YN and DAvis, JJ., dissenting. T&ZY,
C. J., and GRIER, J., absent.
2. "Where parties are permitted by the District Court under this act to appear and contest the survey and location, the order of the court permitting such appearance and contest should be set forth in the record.
Only those persons who, by such order, are made parties contestant,
will be heard on appeal. MILLER, SwAms, a'nd DAvIs, JJ., dissenting.
TA-EY, C. J., and GEIER, J., absent.
8. Where, under this act, notice has been given to all parties having or
claiming to have any interest in the survey and location of the claim,
to appear by a day designated, and intervene for the protection of their
interest, and upon the day designated certain parties appeared, and the
default of all other parties was entered; the opening of such default
with respect to any party subsequently applying for leave to appear
and intervene, is a matter resting in the discretion of the District Court,
and its action on the subject is not open to revision on appeal.

AN act of Congress of June 14th, 1860,* authorizes the
District Courts of California, on the application of any party
interested, to make an order requiring the survey of any
private land claims to be returned into court. The order is
to be granted on the application of "any party" whom the
court "shall deem to have such an interest in the survey and
location ....
as to make it just and proper that he should
be allowed to take testimony, and to intervene for his interest therein." If the objection to the survey and location is
made on the part of the United States, the order to return
the survey into court is to be on the motion of the district
attorney, founded on sufficient affidavits. "And if the application for such order is made by other parties claiming to
be interested in, or that their rights are affected by such
survey and location, the court, or the judge, in vacation,
shall proceed summarily, on affidavits or otherwise, to inquire
into the fact of such interest, and shall, in its discretion,
determine whether the applicant has such an interest therein
as, under the circumstances of the case, to make it proper
that he should be heard in opposition to the survey, and
shall grant or refuse the order."
* 10 Stat. at Large, 83

712

'TUNTED

STATES V. ESTuDiLLO.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

But the act provides also, "that all the parties claiming
interest, &c., derived from the United States, shall not be permitred to intervene separately; but the rights and interests of
said parties shall be represented by the District Attorney of
the United States, intervening in the name of the United
States; aided by counsel acting for said parties jointly, if
they think proper to employ such counsel." The act also
provides that before proceeding to determine the validity of
any objection to the location made by the surveyor-general,
notice by newspaper publication shall be given to all parties
in interest, that objection has been made, and admonishing
them to intervene for the protection of their interest.
The present case-another case (United States v. Nunez),
being just like it, and depending upon it-was one of these
surveys and locations which had been certified into the District Court for the :Northern District of California. The
record-a confused sort of document-showed that on the 8d;
of October, 1860, "the United States Attorney, E.W. Sloan,
and J. B. Williams appeared for the UnitedStates," other counsel for the claimant, Estudillo, and R. Simson for a certain
Castro, "and on motion, it was ordered that he be allowed
five days to make showing of his right to intervene herein,
and no other party appearing, whereupon it is ordered that the
default of all parties not appearingas aforesaidbe and the same
is hereby entered." Subsequently, to wit, October 81st, 1860,
"come the United States by their attorney, and except to the
official survey." Subsequently to this "the petition of
Thomas W. Mulford, by his attorneys, E. W. Sloan and .
B. Williams," set forth that he had an interest in the land
claimed, and prayed the court to open the default entered on
the preceding 3d, which motion the court, on the 20th of
February, 1861, "denied."
The case being here by appeal,
as the United States, appellant, and J. J. Estudillo, appellee,
Mr. Bates, A. G., in behalf of the United States, and Mr.
Laitham for J. B. Estudillo, appellee, signed an agreement
at the last vacation that the appeal should be dismissed;
and the case was dismissed by the (lerk accordingly; this
agreement and dismissal purporting to be made under the

Dec. 1863.1

UNITED STATES V. ESTUDILLO.
Argument in support of the motion.

29th rule of this court, which provides that when the appellant and appellee in any appeal may, in vacation, by their
respective attorneys, who are entered as such upon the record,
sign and file with the clerk an agreement in writing, direct-ing the case to be dismissed, it shall be the duty of the clerk
to enter the case dismissed.
Mr. J. B. Williams, of California, he being the same Mr.
"J. B. Williams" already mentioned as appearing in the
District Court there, now came into court (Mr. Carlisle being
of counsel), and presenting himself as attorney of "Thomas
W. Mulford and others," moved the court "to vacate the
stipulation, made under the 29th rule of this court, dismissing the appeal of the United States herein (which stipulation," the motion ran, "was made without their consent, or
the consent of their attorney, or the consent of the District
Attorney of the United States for the N~orthern District of
California, and was made to their great prejudice and injury
as settlers upon the public land of the United States); and
that no mandate may issue upon said stipulation, but that
the cause may stand to be heard in its order or otherwise as
this court may direct; and that the attorney for Mulford
and others be allowed to enter his appearance in this court,
and be heard in their behalf, in the manner provided by the
third section of said act of June 14, 1860."
Mr. J. B. Williams and Mr. Carlisle, in support of the motion:
The act of June 14th, 1860, subjects the work of the surveyorgeneral to the revision of the District Courts, and enables all
contestants to file objections, and have the survey examined
and corrected if found to be erroneous. By obliging the surveyor-general to give notice, by publication, whenever he has
made a survey of any private land claim, and by requiring
all parties in interest to appear and intervene, a survey when
finally approved is not only conclusive between the United
States and the claimant, but is conclusive as to third parties,
and the patentee can rely upon his legal title against all the
world.
It is clear. from the provisions of the act, that Congress

UNITED STATES V. ESTUDILLO.

[Sup. Ct,

Argument in support of the motion.

did not intend to allow each settler the privilege to intervene
in his own name, with a separate right of appeal; its intention was to give them those rights jointly, and the use of
the name of the United States. And if they can be heard
jointly by their own counsel in the court below, why no. in
this court on appeal? Where does the Attorney-General of
the United States find his authority for dismissing an appeal
taken by the district attorney in behalf of the settlers? The
29th rule of this court applies only to the appellant and appellee by their attorneys. The attorney-general is not the
attorney of those claiming under the laws of the United
States. He is the attorney of the United States-not of the
settlers. The appeal was taken in the name of the United
States, but it was taken in behalf of Mulford and others,
appearing jointly, and represented by their counsel. The
attorney-general might well refuse to appear for the settlers,
but he can have no right to dismiss their appeal when they
stand ready to prosecute it by their counsel.
Mulford and other settlers on the lands under the laws of
the United States, claim that if the confirmed tract be properly surveyed and located, they will be gainers. The District Court decided against them. They ask to be heard
here by their counsel. If the decision of the District Court
-had been in their favor, and the claimant had appealed, they
would have been compelled to defend themselves as appellees. The attorney-general would not have appeared in
their behalf, for his action in dismissing the appeal shows
that he would have considered a decision against the survey
as unjust. They do not ask the attorney-general now to
appear in their behalf, but to let them appear and be heard
by iheir own counsel, leaving him to express the views of the
United States, as proprietors of vacant public land, if he
thinks proper.
The right of the attorney-general to dismiss appeals in
general, where the United States is the appellant, is not
questioned. Where the suit is strictly one between the
United States and the claimant, in which neither the alienees
of the claimant, nor thoe claiming under the United States,

_Jec. 1863.]

UNITED STATES V. ]STUDILLO.
Opinion of the court.

nor adjoining proprietors, can intervene, the right and duty
of the attorney-general to desist from the prosecution of an
appeal which only works ruin to the claimant under a
genuine and valid title, is clear. But the location and sur.
vey of a confirmed claim almost always involves the interests of parties with whom the government has no concern.
Here they are made to intervene. Does any one doubt if this
case stays dismissed, and Mulford were hereafter to bring
ejectment, that the record of this case would be used against
him?
The right of special counsel-counsel acting for the individual claimants, though appearing to a6t for the United
States-has never been questioned below; where the case is
managed almost wholly by them, and where the question
whether appeal shall or shall not be takefi is left to their view
of what their interests may suggest. There should be no different rule here, after the parties are brought, at an immense
expense, a distance of six thousand miles.
Messrs. Bates, A. G., Black, and Johnson, contra.
Mr. Justice FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
The appeal in this case was dismissed during the last
vacation, by stipulation of the parties, under the twentyninth rule. A motion is now made on behalf of one Thomas
W. Mulford and others, that the stipulation be vacated, the
mandate of the court be withheld, and their attorney be
allowed to enter his appearance and be heard on their
behalf.
The case was brought before the court on appeal from the
decree of the District Court of the Northern District of
California, approving a survey of a confirmed private land
,claim, under the act of June 14th, 1860. After, the survey
was returned into the District Court, a monition was issued
to the marshal requiring him to notify all parties having, or
claiming to have, any interest in the survey and location of
the claim, to appear on a day designated and intervene for
the protection of their interests. The only parties whG

UNITED STATES . ESTUDILLO.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

appeared in pursuance of the notice given by the marshal
were the United States, the claimant, and one Castro; and
the court ordered the default of all other parties to be entered. Subsequently, Mulford, who now appears in the
motion before us, applied to the court to open the default
and to allow him to intervene, alleging an interest in a portion of the land embraced by the survey under a patent from
the State of California; but his application was denied. The
action of the court in this respect is not subject to revision,
the opening of the default being a matter resting in its discretion.
The motion is on behalf of Mulford and others, but who
are included by the term "others" we are not informed by
the record. Their names are not given, nor is their interest
stated, except in the very general and loose terms with which
it is designated in the argument of counsel as that of settlers
on the land under the laws of the United States.
The act of 1860 is liberal in the permission it gives for
interposing objections to the surveys of confirmed claims
made by the Surveyor-General of California; but at the same
time it limits with special care the permission to those who
are in fact interested in making a contest. It authorizes the
return of surveys for examination and adjudication only
upon the application of parties who, in the judgment of the
court or district judge, have such interest as to make it proper for them to intervene for its protection. It provides that
when objections are interposed by the United States, the
application shall be made by the district attorney, and be
founded on "sufficient affidavits;" and that when apphcation is made by "other parties claiming to be interested in,
or that their rights are affected by," the survey and location,
there shall be a preliminary examination into the fact of such
alleged interest. "The court, or the judge in vacation," says
the statute, "shall proceed summarily on affidavits or otherwise to inquire into the fact of such interest, and shall in its
discretion determine whether the applicant has such an interest therein as, under the circumstances of the case, to
make it proper that he should be heard in opposition to the

Dec. 1863.]

]UNITED STATES V. ESTUDILLO.
Opinion of Miller, J.

survey, and shall grant or refuse the order to return the survey and location as shall be just."
The proceedings upon this examination, or at least the
order of the court or judge thereon, should appear in the
record; for we can .only know by the order whether the
parties have been permitted to contest the survey before the
court. When the interest of parties applying is shown and
the order is made, those who claim under the United States
by "pre-emption, settlement, or other right or title," must
intervene, not separately, but collectively, in the name of the
United States, and be represented by the district attorney,
and any counsel employed by them co-operating with him.
In the present case, it does not appear that any of the precautionary steps required by the act in question were pursued
by the nameless "others" for whom the present motion is
made. No presentation, so far as the record discloses, was
made of the interest of any persons against the survey besides those we have named. And it is not permissible for
parties to appear in this court and be heard in opposition to
the survey approved, who have never participated, or asked
to participate, in the proceedings upon the survey in the court
below.
These views also dispose of the motion to set aside the
dismissal of the appeal in the case of United States v. Nunez.
The motion in both cases is
DENTED.

Messrs. Justices SWAYITE and DAVIS dissented.
Mr. Justice MIMLER.
I concur in the judgment of the court, overruling the motion to set aside the agreement between the attorney-general
and the counsel of the claimant, by which it is agreed that
this appeal shall be dismissed. But I do not agree to the
ground upon which the judgment of the court is based; and
as the matter involves the construction of an important provision of the act of June 14, 1860, concerning surveys of
Mexican grants in California, I think it of sufficient consequence to justify a statement of my views separately.

UNITED STATES V. ESTUDILLO.

[Sup. C

Opinion of Miller, J.

That act provides, in its third section, that any party whom
the district judge "shall deem to have sufficient interest in
the survey and location of a land claim," "shall be allowed
to intervene for his interest therein," and that the court, or
judge in vacation, shall proceed summarily to determine, in
his discretion, whether the applicant has such an interest as
entitles him to be heard in opposition to the survey which
has been made and reported to the court. The statute then
proceeds in the following language: "_Provided, however, that
all parties claiming interests under pre-emption, settlement,
or other right or title derived from the United States, shall
not be permitted to intervene separately, but the rights and
interests of said parties shall be represented by the District
Attorney of the United States, intervening in the name of
the United States, aided by counsel acting for said parties
jointly, if they think proper to employ such counsel."
The motion in this case is made in behalf of persons belonging to the class mentioned in this proviso, who allege
that their rights have been sacrificed by the attorney-general
in making the agreement to dismiss the appeal. It is overruled on the ground that their names do not appear in the
record as having any interest in the case, or as having been
represented by the district attorney in the name of the United
States, in the proceedings in the District Court. The statute
says that persons in their condition must appear by the district
attorney, in the name of the United States. They can contest the matter in no other way, and through no other attorney. Yet because they did not appear in their own name,
in violation of the statute, it is said they have lost a right,
which they would have had, if they could in some way have
procured their names to be placed on the record as contestants. When the act says that they can only appear in the
name of the United States, I cannot conceive that this court,
or the District Court, should hold them to have been guilty
of laches, because they did not in some manner evade both
the letter and spirit of the law, by procuring their own names
to be inserted in the record.
The language of the statute is, that "the rights and in-

Do,. 1863.]

UNITED STATES V. ESTUDITLLO.

719

Opinion of Miller, J.

terests of said parties shall be represented by the district
attorney." It is true he may be aided by other counsel, if
the parties choose to employ them, but they ar. reresented
by the district attorney. He is their attorney of record, and
they cannot discharge him, or compel him to adopt any other
mode of proceeding than what he deems best. He,adhering
to the statute, makes his objections to the survey in the name
of the United States, and when one of these parties requests
him to insert his name in the proceedings, the attorney
refuses. Has such party any remedy? The law says he
must be represented by the district attorney, and he has no
right to displace him and substitute another. But because
he cannot do this, he is deprived of the right to be heard
here, or in the court below, according to the opinion of the
court in this case.
For myself, if I believed the parties making this motion
had any such right, and were really among the persons represented by the district attorney in the court below, I would
permit that fact to be shown here by affidavit, or in any other
mode which would satisfy the court that it was so. And I
think the contrary rule operates as a trap and delusion, by
holding that they have an interest, which gives them a right
of appeal, but affords them no means of rendering that right
effectual.
But I do not believe that persons included in the proviso
already quoted have any right of appeal, or any other right
of contesting the survey, except as it may be exercised
through the law officers of the government, subject to their
judgment of what may be their official duty in the premises.
The act divides those who may contest the survey into
two classes: those who claim through or under the United
States, and those who do not. All who claim through the
United States, whether by "pre-emption, settlement, or any
other right or title," constitute one class, who ±hust appear by
her attorney and in her name. The words above italicized,
expressive of the nature of the interest derived from the
United States, are not mere synonymes, but are cumulative;
and when, in addition to the several inchoate rights of set-

UNITED STATES V. ESTUDILLO.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of Miller, J.

tlement and pre-emption, the word title is used, it must mean
a patent, or some other legal title, emanating from the United
States.
Who constitute the other class? They must be those who
claim under rights or grants, more or less perfect, derived
from the Mexican government. This class consists of persons
having claims, confirmed or otherwise, the location of which
would interfere with the survey, which is the subject of contestation.
As to this class of persons, the government has, by its
solemn treaty, bound itself to protect their rights. It is
therefore eminently proper that they should be permitted to
assert their rights in their own name, and by such counsel
as they may choose to employ. The statute gives them this
privilege, and if the court below has found that such persons
had an interest in the contest there, it gives them the additional right of an appeal to this court. But as to the other
class, who claim through the United States, it is clear that
any right or title which they may have, must have been
acquired subject to the final determination and location of
the Mexican claims existing when this government became
lord of the soil. The government may therefore very well
say to them, "You knew when you settled, or made preemption, or took a patent, that all just Mexican claims must
be first satisfied, and you have made your location subject
to this risk. The honor of the United States is concerned
to see that no unjust obstacle shall be interposed by her, or
those to whom she has made concessions, to the proper settlement and location of those claims. If you choose there
fore to appear in the name of the United States, and by her'
attorney, and make such objections to these surveys as her
officers, uninfluenced by personal motives, may deem just
and proper under the circumstances, you have that privilege;
but you can do it in no other manner, and the right to contest the proceeding and cease from the contest at. any stage
of it must remain to the government, and to this end it shall
be conducted in her name and controlled by her officers."
I think this is the true construction of the statute. I see

Dec. 1863.]

ROMERO V. UNITED. STATES.
Statement of the ease.

no other reason for reqiring this class of persons to appear
in the name of the United States, and by her attorney, while
persons of the other class are at liberty to select their own
attorney and appear in their own name.
Besides, it is evident that the framers of the statute did
not regard this right of contesting the survey as one so very
sacred, since the judge of the District Court can decide on
the right in his discretion, in court, or in vacation, summarily, and without appeal.
It is therefore my opinion that it was entirely within the
discretion of the attorney-general to dismiss this appeal, if
he thought it right to do so, and that this court cannot interfere in his exercise of that discretion; and upon this ground
alone I place my concurrence in the action of the court.

ROMERO V. 'UNITED STATES.
1. The Mexican archives are public records, which this court has a right
to consult, though not made formal proof by being put in evidence

below.
2. *Where there is no record evidence of the actual grant under a Mexican
title a claim will not be confirmed, even though the parol evidence of a
grant is so strong that, independently of the fact that the archives show
no grant, the conclusion migat be that a grant had issued.

THIs was an appeal from the Disfrict Court for the Northern District of California; the case being thus:
On the 28th February, 1853, three brothers, Innocencio,
Jos4, and Mariano Romero, presented their petition to the
Board of Commissioners, established by the act of Congress
of March 3d, 1851, for the settlement of private land claims
in California, asking a confirmation of a land title. Their
petition averred that Governor Micheltorena, in the year
1844 (no day being mentioned), granted them in fill pro.
perty a rancho in the neighborhood of the'rancho of the Seors
Moraga, Pacheco, and Will, being a remainder over and
above what belongs to those ranchos--the said land being in
VOL. L

46

