Dec. 1863.]

BUnR v. DURYEE.
Statement of the case.

party in such controversies. The maxim, "in pari ddicto
motior est conditio defendentis," must prevail.
DECREE AFFIRMED WITH COSTS.

BURR V. DURYEE.
1. The practice of surrendering valid patents, and of granting reissues
thereon in cases where the original patent was neither inoperative nor
invalid, and where the specification was neither defective nor insufficient-the purpose being only to insert in the reissue expanded or
equivocal claims-is declared by the court to be a great abuse of the
privileges granted by the thirteenth section of the Patent Act of 1836,
authorizing a surrender and reissue in certain cases, and is pointedly
condemned.
2. As the Patent Act grants a monopoly to any one who'may have discovered or invented "any new and useful art, nachine, manufacture,
or composition of matter," and as a machine is a concrete thing, con
sisting of parts or of certain devices and combinations of devices, a
patent must be granted, in cases where the invention comes within the
category of a machine, for it, and not for a "mode of operation," nor
forA "principle," nor for an "idea," nor for any abstraction whatsoever: and this rule of law is not affected by the fact that the statute
requires the patentee to explain "the mode of operation" of his peculiar
machine which distinguishes it from all others.
8. The machine patented tor Seth Boyden, January 10, 1860, for an improvement in machinery for forming hat-bodies, is no infringement of any

of the patents granted to Henry A. Wells for the same thing. The
patents to Weljrso far as they related to an improvement in the process of makingi-hat-bodies, were void; William Ponsford having invented and patented the thing before him, and Wells having seen
Ponsford's invention.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of New
Jersey.
The complainant, Burr, as assignee of a patent granted
to Henry A. Wells for "an improvement in the machinery
for making hat-bodies, and in the process of their manufacture," filed a bill in the court below against Duryee and
others for infringement. The patent to Wells was granted
originally April 25, 1846. It was surrendered in 1856, and
reissued in two separate patents; one for the improved ma-

BURR

v.

DURYEE.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

chine, the other for the process. In the spring of 1860 these
patents were extended, and afterwards, December 3, of that
year, they were surrendered and reissued with what were
alleged to be amended specifications; the bill being filed on
these reissues of 1860, numbered respectively No. 1086 and
No. 1087; the former for process, and the latter for machinery. The court below dismissed the bill, and the case
came here by appeal.
These reissues, with the amended specifications, were conceived by the appellant Burr, to have been justified in his
case by the terms of the Patent Act of 1836 (ยง 13), allowing
such reissues in certain cases, and among them in the following one, to wit:
"Whenever any patent shall be inoperative or invalid by reason of a defective or insufficient description or specification."
The chief questions in this court were in effect,1. Whether a certain machine, patented to one Seth Boyden, infringed in terms the machine part of the patent originally granted to Wells?
2. If it did not, whether, under the right given by the
Patent Act of 1836 (ยง 13), to surrender and have a reissue in
certain cases provided for by the act, the owner of the original patent could, by such surrender and reissue of a patent,
enlarge its operation in a way which the present complainant
sought to do, and which is stated farther on ?
3. Whether Wells was the original inventor of the process
part of his patent?
In their more general aspect, however, the first two questions involved some of the fundamental principles in the law
of the issue and reissue of patents; and they were argned
elaborately and with great ability on both sides.
The learned Justice GRIER, J., who delivered the opinion
in one of the cases here reported (see postea), refers to the
"large museum of exhibits in the shape of machines and
models" which had "been presented to the court," and
which, he states, were "absolutely necessary to give the
court a proper understanding of the merits of the contro-

Dee. 1863.]

BURR V. DURYEE.
Statement of the case.

versy." Most of them were introduced by the defendant, and
they were arranged and explained with admirable clearness
by one of his counsel, Mr. George Harding.* Drawings-of
which but three can here be given-supply imperfectly originals thus advantageously presented. Without them, however, no idea at all can be had of the case; and the reporter
trusts that while, from the special difficulty above referred
to of understanding the case perfectly, without an inspection
of actual machines, he will be pardoned for a statement of
it which may be not intelligible to all; he will, on the other
hand, be excused for incumbering a book of law reports
with drawings, which, in the eyes of a casual observer, will
give to it the aspect of a treatise on physical science, more
than the aspect of one on the science of jurisprudence.
Any complete understanding of the principles which the
case embraces and settles requires some preliminary explanation of the particular art which happened to be the one in
which the queations were presented to this court; the art,
to wit, of the hatter.
EXPLANATION

OF TRE ART.

Hat-bodies are manufactured out of fibres of fur or wool
felted together. The fact that when the fibres of wool or fur
are moistened and rubbed together, they would interweave
spontaneously and form the fabric called felt, has been
known from a remote antiquity. The process of felting is
believed to have been anterior to the art of weaving.
In Asia felted wool was used at a very early day for making
tents, cushions, and carpets. It was known to the Greeks
as early as the age of Homer, and is mentioned by him, and
also by Xenophon and Herodotus. Its use was introduced
into Rome from the Greeks, and it is mentioned by Pliny.
Felt hat-makers appeared in France, in Nuremberg, and in
Bavaria, early in the fourteenth century. It had been con. * The whole business of making hats, from the disintegrating of the fur
to the production of a hat-body, was actually carried on and exhibited in
the court-room.

BURR

v.

DURYEE.

.[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

jectured by Monge, a French savant, in 1790, that felting
was probably due to small scales on the fibres of fur or wool,
but, as nothing of the kind was found by the aid of the microscope, the idea was set aside by Dr. Young and
other philosophers. Mr. Youatt, an intelligent
English naturalist, in 1835, in investigating the
subject of felting, carefully re-examined the
fibres of wool, and the fur of rabbits and other
animals, under a powerful achromatic microscope, and found that each fibre of fur or wool
has its surface covered with serrations or sawV'
like projections, and that all these serrations
pointed in a direction from the root towards the
Fig. 1. Fig. 2. point of the hair. The appearance of a short
piece of a fibre of wool under the microscope is
shown in figure 1, and the wool or fur of the rabbit in
figure 2.* The fur of the rabbit does not exceed in diameter
the one-thousandth part of an inch; and in an inch of length
of each fibre there are found to be 2880 of th ese serrations.
In order that the fibres of fur or wool should felt, it is
necessary that the relative position
1which
they occupy in nature should
N
be changed, and the direction of the
serrations on the fibres shall be reversed to each other, as shown in
figure 3, instead of being pointed in
the same direction as in nature.
The thorough separation of the individual fibres of fur from each
other is one of the first essentials in
manufacturing fine felted fabrics;
Fig. 3.
not only for the purpose just mentioned, but also to prevent the formation of lumps. The
well-known instruments for separating or disintegrating
The great majority of hat-bodies are made of the fur of the Russiar
hare, the English or the American rabbit, the coney (a small species of ralbit) the nutria and the beaver.

Dec. 1863.]

Buui v. DURYEE.
Statement of the case.

fibrous material are the carding engine, the picker, and the
bowstring.
The carding engine is the most complete and generally
used instrument for separating all fibrous material, as wool.
cotton, fur, and silk. It is shown on the body of the instru.
ment, drawn in figure 6 (page 538); that part of the instrument
on the left of the dotted line, and marked F, 2, c,c, ,bD,
being left off. The carding machine is composed of one
central main cylinder, covered with an almost infinite number of fine wire teeth. On the finer qualities of cards there
are 79,000 teeth in every square foot of surface. This fine
wire-pointed surface turns in contact with a succession of
fine wire-teethed surfaces, and between these points the
fibrous material is thoroughly disintegrated or scratched
apart and separated. When operating on fur a fan (F)-in
this plate a rotary fan-wheel-is attached to it, to throw the
fur after it has been so separated.
Another mechanism ordinarily used for disintegrating
fibrous substances in the arts is the "picker" or "devil," D,
which is shown in figure 10 (page 549), and consists of a
series of very short, stiff, metallic teeth or studs, arranged
at intervals on the
periphery of a cylini
der, and which is revolved with great rapidity. It acts by

;o

striking or whipping
the fibrous material

li

into or against the
air with great velo-

*

city, and thus scatters
it into distinct fibres.

The bowstring is a
vibrating cord, which "
also acts on the fur
in a similar manner
to the picker.
By
being twanged it vi-

brates, and it whips

1

_____--___
Fig. A4

--

_
_--___

[Sup. Ct.

BURR v. DURYEE.
Statement of the case.

or strikes the fibres of the fur or wool a sharp and rapid
blow against the air. Felt was merely used as the foundation or body for the hat, which body was first stiffened and
then shaped into the figure of the ordinary stiff cylindrical
hat; and finally, its exterior surface was made to have the
appearance of a glossy fur.
A finished hat was formerly made in the following manner: The "body" or foundation was first made of beaver,
or rabbit, or coney fur; first, by the fibres being deposited
in the form of two triangular pieces by means of the hatter's bow, as shown in figure 4, and then felted by rubbing
by hand. In forming the body the skill of the workman
directed the fur towards the brim or tip, as was required;
it being generally necessary to make the brim thick. The
bodies were then taken to the kettle, or battery, containing
boiling water, where, by the workman's repeatedly immersing the body in hot water, and rubbing it on the shelf with

V,I
ii1
-

4.*

Fig. 5.

his hands for about the space of an hour, the fibres of fur
were forced to interlock or felt. The operation is seen in
figure 5. -Underthis process of "si z ing," as it is called, the

Dec. 1863.]

BURR V. DURYEE.
Statement of the case.

body shrinks to nearly one-third of its original surerficial
size, and greatly increases in thickness, compactness, and
toughness. The body was then stiffened, either by immersion in a hot solution of glue, or in a solution of gum shellac
in alcohol. It was next blocked by being drawn over a
cylindrical block and tied at the band, and then felted or
stretched so as to make the brim straight. Lastly, the body
was dried, and a silk plush covering was stuck on the ex
terior of it by a hot iron, which melted the glue or shellac.*
TME INVENTION IN MACHINERY AND PROCESS OF MAKING
HAT-BODIES.

Prior to 1833 no machine had been devised for depositing
the fur in a proper manner to form hat-bodies; and the process was effected solely by the use of a bowstring worked by
hand, as shown in figure 4.
In 1883, however, T. R. Williams, an American citizen,
of Newport, Rhode Island, while temporarily residing in
England, invented, and in the same year patented, a machine for making "( hat-bodies," or "foundations," on which
hats were to be formed. The machine as a whole is shown
in figure 6t (page 538); and its object, as patented, was to
produce at one operation "hat-bodies," or "foundations,"
in the state to be at once covered by the silk plush, thereby
dispensing with all manual operation but the last.
This machine depended for its action on the principle of
distributing the fur fibres in the atmosphere over a perforated hollow cone (b),usually made of wire, either of a strictly
conical form (6), or of the nearer shape of a hat, as seen in
* Instead of using silk plush for the exterior covering, the fur-like appearance was originally given to the exterior surface of the body by scalding in, or partially felting the fine fur fibres upon the exterior surface, after
Lhe body was stiffened, and before it was blocked, producing a napped surface, and the bat was called a napped hat. At other times the workman,
while engaged in sizing the body, by continually brushing the body with a
hana-brusn, would brush a nap out of its surface. Hats so finished were
zalled brush hats.
+ This plate is a copy of one annexed to Williams's patent.

588

BURR V. DURYEE.
Statement of the case.

[Sup. Ct.

Dec. 1863.]

Buni v.

DURYEE.

Statement of the case.

the other figure c, of the plate; having an apparatus (D) to
exhaust the air, and so to attract the fibres of fur to the cone
above. The cones rested and rotated on cog-wheels, driven
by a shaft and toothed pinion or spur (c). The cog-wheels
were made to rotate in sockets of a cone-box below; itself
revolving horizontally on its centre, so as to present each
hollow cone in succession to a conduit of fur, which is seen
in the plate descending in a shower. Underneath the conebox was a fan-box, with a socket above for the cone-box to
revolve in, and in it a fan with side passages for the entrance
of air. The cone-box was connected by a rim with the lower
box or conduit leading to this exhaust-box. The fur, as the
reader will understand, had been pieviously disintegrated
by the carding machine, and is thrown by a rotating fan (F)
in such a way as to be deposited on the cones below. Williams's invention was the first attempt to make use of the
principle of atmospheric pressure, or "exhaustion," to cause
a deposit of fur or other fibrous material on perforated cones,
cone-frames, or "formers," as these contrivances are indiscriminately called. This machine of Williams contained no
trunk or conduit inclosed on all sides to carry the fur when
disintegrated, and by the character of its aperture to direct
it in a particular way towards the cone; it had, however, as
the reporter understood it, a sort of "roof" over the disintegrated fur, with open sides; which roof the operator bent
more or less, as he considered that the case needed. After
sufficient fur had been deposited on the "former," a hollow
hinged perforated cover (1) was placed over it, and the two
were immersed in a boiling solution of glue and starch, and
then the body was removed from between the forms and
dried. The immersion of the body, while between the perforated forms, in a solution of glue or starch, as described
by Williams, was deemed necessary, in order to cause the
fibres to adhere together after the body was removed from
the influence of the exhausting apparatus. The fur fibres,
by Williams's process, were so glued or stuck together that
they could not be felted afterwards.
fn 1889-this date must be observed-a certain William

BURr. v. DURYEE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

Ponsford discovered, that when a mass of fur or fibrous material capable of felting is disintegrated, and deposited in a
condition proper for felting, and is immersed for an instant
in very hot water, that the hot water will, of itself, cause an
incipient felting of the fibres, so that a continuous fabric of
fur of the shape of the "former" can be then removed from
the "former" and finished by the hand of the workman;
and he further discovered, that if the bat* be surrounded
carefully with a soft cloth, its texture will not be disturbed
during the operation of immersion, by reason of the water
percolating or passing through it. The mode of applying
this discovery was described in the English patent of Ponsford in 1839 as follows:
"The hair as it passes from the blowing machine is to be
tossed or thrown into the air, from which it is to be sucked or
drawn down upon hollow perforated cones or moulds of metal
or wood, with an exhausting cylinder beneath; when the hair
has been received on one of those perforated cones or moulds to
a sufficient thickness, a cowl of linen or flannel is to be drawn
gently over it, and then a hollow perforated cover, of copper or
any other suitable metal, is to be dropped over the cowl; the
cone or mould is then to be immersed in a vat or tub of boilinghot water, and there allowed to remain for about a minute, after
which it is to be taken out, and the metal cover and flannel or
linen cowl removed, when the bat or layer of hair will be found
felted to a degree that it may be readily finished off by the workman in the usual manner at the oven."
As illustrating the history of the art, and fixing the true
relations to it of subsequent discoveries, rather than as
directly bearing on the case in. issue, it may be mentioned
that in 1842 a certain Fosket began experiments in this same
branch of business, and obtained a patent January 23, 1846,
three months before Wells obtained his original patent.t
Fosket's machine consisted of a combination of a vibrating
* A "bat" is a hat-body in the process of formation.
t Wells's. reissue, No. lC87, referred in its preamble to this patent of
Fosket, reciting it as a prior patent.

Dec. 1863.]

B,1R .V. DuRYE.
Statement of the case.

bowstring disintegrating apparatus, worked by a wheel, as in
figure 7; a hollow perforated revolving vacuum cone and a

Fig. 7.

trunk or conductor, partially surrounding the disintegrater
at one end, and extending to the cone, ibr the purpose of
guiding and directing the fur between the disintegrating
mechanism and the cone. The patent of Fosket was reissued
March 23, 1858, two years anterior to the Wells reissues of
1860. A person named Robertson, and Hezekiah Miller, a
Philadelphian, had previously made certain improvements,
not necessary to be specially presented; the former in 1838,
the latter in 1839.
The present controversy related to the formation of the
"hat-body," or foundation of the hat on the perforated cone,
and the removal of it when formed from the cone without
injury to the texture; the former matter being the principal
question.
A fur hat-body is required to be made of uniform thickness in the direction of its circumference, and of varying
thickness from brim to tip, thin at the tip and along the
crown, and thick at the band and brim; but thickest at the
junction of the brim with the crown, termed the band. To
secure lightness with the requisite strength calls for such a
distribution of the material as will concentrate most of it
where strength is most required.
Wells, from whom, as aheady mentioned, the complainant

BuRR v. DURYEE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

derived title, obtained a patent, April 25, 1846, for a machine
for forming, on hollow perforated cones, fur hat-bodies, and
for a process of removing the body from the cone after it had
been so formed, in such a condition as to its texture that
its fibres could be subsequently felted together to a proper
degree by hand. His machine (figure 8, op *osite), consisted
of a revolving brush (F) to separate and throw the fibres of
fur, a perforated vacuum cone (o) to receive the fur, and an
intermediate trunk (M) to convey the fur to the cone. The
aperture of this trunk nearest to the cone had a hinged
hood or deflector (s) at its upper extremity, which vibrated
up and down and regulated the deposit of fibres on the
cone, so as to make the brim of the hat-body thicker than
the tip.
Wells's specification, in its important parts, was as follows; and it is important for the reader to observe not only
what is described, but how far in the description Wells describes an improvement on a machine; in other words, a machine itself, or part of one; and how far something less concrete, as a mode of operation; the allegation of the defendants
having been, that in this specification-the specification, to
wit, of the original patent-nothing but a machine was described.
"It has long been essayed to make hat-bodies by throwing the
fibres of fur, wool, &c., by a brush or picker cylinder, into a perforated cone, exhausted by a fan below to carry and hold the
fibres thereon by the currents of air that rush from all directions
towards and through the apertures of the cone, and thus form a
bat of fibres ready for hardening and felting, but from various
causes all these attempts have failed. I have, however, so improved this machine in various important particulars as to remove
all the objections, as proved by the test of experiment.
,, My improvements consist in feeding the fur, after it has been
picked, to a rotating brush, between two endless belts of cloth,
one above the other (b b'); the lower one horizontal, and the
upper inclined, to gradually compress the fur, and gripe it more
effectually where it is presented to the action of the rotating
brush, which, moving at a great velocity, throws it in a chamber

Dec. 1862.]

BuRR v. DuRYEE.
Statement of the case.

543

]BUEr v. DURYuE.

[Sup. Ot

Statement of the case.

or tunnel (1), which is gradually changed in form, towards the
outlet, where it assumes a shape nearly corresponding to a vertical section passing through the axis of the cone, but narrower,
for the purpose of concentratingand directing the fur thrown by
the brush into the cone (o); this casing being provided with an
aperture (N) immediately under the brush (F), through which
a current of air enters, in consequence of the rotation of the
brush and the exhaustion of the cone, for the purpose of more
effectually directing the fibres towards the cone, which is placed
just in front of the delivery aperture of the chamber, or tunnel, which
apertureis provided at top with a bonnet or hood, hinged thereto, and
at the bottom with a hingedflap, to regulate the deposits of the fibres
on the cone or other 'former,' with the view to distributethe thickness
of the bat wherever more is required to give additionalstrength...
Its top is gradually elevated and sides contracted so as to make
the delivery aperture nearly of the form of the cone, but narrower and higher."
The Wells disintegrating arrangement is shown in figure
9, and its operation was that
of brushing the fur while held
between the feed-rollers (dd).
Wells's language was,'As the fibres are first presented
they are brushed and ' properly laid
by the downward action of the
brush,' and when 'liberated' are
carried down the curved surface of
a chamber, &c., or tunnel."
Fig. 9.
Wells next described the mode
of operation, and afterwards made his claim thus: the same
observation applying here, as above, as to the importance of
the reader's noting not only the thing described, but also
whether this thing was a machine-in the concrete-or
something of a more abstract kind.
"What I claim, &c., is the arrangementof the two feeding-belts
(b b),with theirplanes inclined to each other, and passing around the
!ips (d d') formed substantially as described, the better to present
the fibres to the action of the rotatingbrush (F), as described in corn-

Dec. 1863.]

BUitR v. D)UI YEE.

.545

Statement of the case.

bination with the rotating brush and tunnel or chamber (M)
which conducts the fibres to the perforated cone or other former
placed in front of the aperture or mouth thereof, substantially as
herein described. I claim the chamber (M) into which the fibres
are thrown by the brush, in combination with the perforated
cone or other ' former' (o) placed in front of the delivery aperture
thereof,for the purpose and in the manner substantially as herein
described, the said chamber being provided with an aperture (N),
below and back of the brush, for the admission of a current of
air to aid in throwing and directing the fibres on to the cone or
other former, as described. I also claim the employment of the
hinged hood (s) to regulate the distributionof the fibres on the perforated cone or other former, as described. And I also claim providing the lower part or delivery apertureof the tunnel or chamber
with a hingedflap (q), for thepurpose of regulatingthe delivery of the
fibres to increase the thickness of the bat where more strength is required, as herein described, in combinationwith the hood, as herein
described.'
In the original machine of Wells, the movable hood, it
seemed, did not distribute the fur on the cones perfectly,
and it was subsequently improved by Burr & Taylor, who
made the trunk of copper or other flexible metal, regulated

by a movable top.
Wells also described and claimed in his original patent .
process of removing the body after it was formed, which
consisted in surrounding the body, while yet on the cone
upon which it had been formed, with cloths, and then placing
over it another perforated cover, and immersing the whole,
together, in hot water, so as to partially unite the fibres of
fur into a loose texture,-a part of the patent not important
here to be dwelt upon. This original patent, as stated in
the beginning of the case, was surrendered, for an alleged
defective specification, and two reissued patents were granted;
one being for the madhine, and the other for the process of
removing the body from the cone by immersion in hot
water.
On the 10th of January, 1860, Seth Boyden-the person
mentioned in the beginning of the case as the person whose
VOL. I.

85

BURR v. DURYEE.

[Slip. Ot.

Statement of the case.

patent came into competition with the machine reissues ,No.
1087) of Wells-obtained letters for a machine for forming
hat-bodies, and-the defendants used several machines under
this Boyden patent. On the 3d of December, 1860, after
the Boyden machine had been put in operhtion at the defendant's factory, where the complainant was invited to inspect, and saw it, the complainant, who now owned the reissues of 1856 of the original Wells patent, again surrendered
them for a defective specification, and obtained two new
reissues, to wit, the issues No. 1086 and 1087,-the former
for the process; the latter, on which, as already said, the
principal question in the present suit turned, for the machine.
The reissues for both were obtained under the thirteenth
section of the Patent Act of 1836, which permits a patentee
to surrender a defective patent, and to have it renewed in
proper form "whenever it shall be inoperative or invalid by
reason of a defective or insufficient description or specification,
or by reason of the patentee claiming in his specification as
his own invention more than he had a right to claim as new, if
the error has arisen by inadvertency, accident, or mistake,"
&c. The complainant, in his application for these reissues,
stating that he was the assignee of Wells, set forth, as the
ground for the application, "that the aforesaid patent is not
fully available to him as ass(9nee; that said error has arisen
from inadvertence, accident, or mistake."
In the latter of the two reissues of 1860-that is to say, in
No. 1087, the machine patent, and the patent on which the
chief questions in this suit arose-the invention of Wells is
thus described; and as the reader's attention was directed
(ante, p. 542), in reading the specification and claim in the
originalpatent, to observe how far they described or claimed
machines in a concrete form, and how far modes of operation
abstractly, so it must be directed to the same point in reading
the description and claim in the reissue; for it was upon the
different character of the claim in the two that the case
largely rested.
"The mode of operation of the said invention of the said Henry

Dec. 1863.]

Bunn v. Duryr,.
Statement of the case.

A. Wells is such that the fur fibres are directed and controlled
so as to travel from the picking and disintegrating blush (F)
towards the surface of the pervious cone or other ' former' (o),
that they may be deposited thereon to the thickness required to
make a bat of uniform thickness all around, and of the required
varying thickness from brim to tip; and this mode of operation
results from combining with a rotary picking and disintegrating
brush, and a pervious cone or equivalent former, connected with
an exhausting apparatus, suitable means for directing and controlling the fur-bearing currents.
"The said mode of operation,invented by the said Henry A. Wells,
is embodied in the following deseriptionof the mode of application,
reference being had to the accompanying drawings, in which a
is a frame properly adapted to the operative parts of the machine, and b the lower feed-apron, on which the stock or fur is
spread by the attendant, in separate parcels, each sufficient for
the formation of a hat, according to its intended weight."
Then followed a description of the machine, as in the original patent, with these exceptions: 1. The word "hood"
which occurred in the original patent is omitted, and the
word "upper deflector" substituted for it.
2. The word
"hinged flap" is omitted, and "lower deflector" substituted
throughout. 3. A clause near the end of the original patent
of 1846 is altered by leaving off the part in italics :
Passagein Original Patentof 1846.

It will be obvious, from the foregoing, that the hood may be operated by hand instead of machinery,
thus substituting the attention, skill,
and cost of an operative for the positive regularity and cheapness of mechanical movements, &c.; but such

Corresponding Passage in RPeissue of

1860.
It will be obvious, from the foregoing, that the hood may be operated
'by hand instead of machinery, thus
substituting the attention, skill, and
cost of an operative for the positive
regularity and cheapness of mechani-

a change, whilst itgires less erffect and cal movements.
advantageous relts, still involves one
of th essential arts of my insention.

After describing the machine as shown in the drawing.
and described in the original patent, the specification resumes thus:
"Having thus described the mode of application of the said

:BURR v. DURi-EE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
invention of the said Henry A. Wells, as the same was successfully reduced to practice by him, I do not wish to be understood
as limiting the claim of my invention to such mode of application; as other modes may be devised, having the same mode of
operation,or principle,and only differing from it in form, or in the
substitution of equivalent means.
"Nor do I wish to be understood as making claim therein to
the combined process of forming and hardening hat-bodies on
pervious cones or other analogous 'formers,' preparatory to
taking them off in a suitable condition for the after-process of
sizing by felting, as this is the subject of another patent.
"What I claim as the invention of the said Henry A. Wells, in
machinery for forming bats of fur fibres, in the manufacture of
fur hat-bodies, is the mode of operationsubstantially as herein described, of forming bats of far fibres of the required varying
thickness, from brim to tip, which mode of operation results from
the combination of the rotating picking mechanism, or the
equivalent thereof, the pervious ' former' and its exhausting mecbanism, or the equivalent thereof, and the means for directing
the fur-bearing current, or the equivalent thereof, as set forth."
The Boyden machine-or rather the important and peculiar part of it-as used by the defendants, is shown in figure

10 (opposite).

It consisted of a revolving picker, or devil (the

instrument described, ante, p. 585), to separate the fibres;
a perforated vacuum cone to receive the fur, and an intermediate plate to so guide the fur as to cause more to be deposited
on the base than the top of the cone. Boyden thus descriled
his invention; this being the invention which it was alleged
by the complainant infiinged the right granted by the machine patent, or reissue No. 1087, of Wells, whose specification and claim have just been set forth (ante, p. 547-8).
"This invention relates to an improved mode of directing or
guiding the fur to the cone, as hereinafter fully shown and described, whereby trunks and all other comparatively complicated
appliances hitherto used for the purpose are dispensed with, and an
exceedingly simple and efficient device substituted therefor. The invention consists in placing directly in front of the picker D a
plate (F), so bent or curved that its surface will have a certain

Dec. 1863.]

BuRR v. Du

549

.

Statement of the case.

I 0
o "o*

o

bo

P

A

550

BuRR v. DURYEE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

relative position with the axis of the picker and the surface of
the cone (B), and give such a direction to the fur as the latter is
thrown on it by the rapid motion of the picker, that the fur will
be drawn properly on the cone by the exhaust or suction within
it. The plate F is parallel with and directly back of the picker
D, and in close proximity to it, and said plate is curved so as to
have its highest point at the centre, as shown clearly in the
figure. This peculiar curvature of the plate F not only gives the
proper direction to the fur, so that the latter may properly cover
the cone, but it also directs the fur to the cone in properquantity;
for instance, the central and highest part of the plate F is comparatively a short curve, and directs a small quantity of fur to
the upper part of the cone where bat a small portion is required;
but it will be seen that the lower part of the plate has a double
curved surface to supply the cone, one at each side of its centre,
so that the cone will be properly fed or supplied, the supply
gradually increasing from the top to the bottom of the cone.
"I do not claim the cone, nor the picker, neither do I claim
the feed-apron, but I do claim as new the fur director or plate
F, curved or bent substantially as shown, and arranged in relation with the cone B and picker D, to operate substantially as
and for the purpose set forth."
The court below-remarking that the law relating to
patents would be obscured in a "bank of fog" by the subtle
ingenuity with which its principles were sometimes presented-held in effect:
1. That the original patent to Wells was to be so construed as to limit the claim to the combination of the revolving fur-throwing mechanism, the trunk, or peculiar
guide of Wells, and the perforated vacuum cone; that the
machine reissue of 1860 (No. 1087) could give no larger effect,
except on an assumption that it protected, not a combination
of devices to effect a particular purpose, but an abstraction
or generalization broad enough to include all combinations
whatsoever of devices to produce the same effect; "a transcendental abstraction magnified into a monopoly, not of a
machine (which is a concrete thing), but of a principle, effect,
or result." And that if this was assumed, an assumption

Dec.1863.]

BUiR v. DURYEE.
Argument for the Wells Patent.

was made that the patent protected that which it is no pur
pose of a patent to protect, and that which made it void.
2. That Boyden's machine was no infringement of the
reissued patent of Wells; and, if it was such infringement,
the reissue itself would be void as claiming more than the
original did.
3. That as to the patent for process (reissue No. 1086) the
claim wanted originality; Ponsford's patent having been
prior to it.
From the consequent dismissal of the bill the appeal came;
the correctness of these views on the case as stated being
the principal questions here.
Messrs. Stoughton, GQfford, and Keller, for the complainant:
L Wells was the first who introduced any guiding and di.
recting mechanism, and his introduction of that between the
rotating picker and "former" produced a new machine, viz.,
the first machine which could successfully make hat-bodies
from the flying fur, by guiding and directing the fur from
the picker to the "former."
He may therefore treat as infringers all who use the machine with only a substitute for one
of the parts of the combination, performing the office of the
part for which it was substituted.
ItL The machine reissue (No. 1087) should not be so construed as to be limited to the particular form of mechanism
interposed between the picker and former to guide and
direct the fur, but it ought to cover any device placed between
the picker and the cone, performing the office of the Wells
mechanism in guiding and directing the fur. It is not im.
portant what the particular shape or construction of the part
between the picker and cone is, so long as such part performs
the oflfce and does the work which Wells conceived the importance of having there done, and which he there did, and
which characterize the operation of his machine.
In Winans v. _Dennwad,* the majority of this court, in.
* 15 Howard, 841.

BURR V. DURYEE.

[Sup. Ct

Argument for the Wells Patent.

eluding three of its present justices, recognized and applied
the following principles:
1. That the mode of operation constitutes the essence of a
machine.
2. That the "mode of operation is, in view of the patent
law, the thing entitled to protection."
3. That a description by the patentee of one structure or
device, embodying his new mode of operation, is sufficient to
entitle him to be protected against the use of other structures
or devices, to carry on substantially the same mode of operation.
4. That copying the mode of operation described is an in.
fringement.
5. That a patentee may and should so form his specification
and claim as to cover his new mode of operation.
6. That where the patentee has described his invention
and shown its principle, and claimed it in that form which
most perfectly embodies it, he is deemed to cover by his
claim every form embodying his mode of operation.
7. That to form an infringement, the defendants need not
have produced the same degree of result as the patentee, but
that it is sufficient to constitute infringement if the result
"be the same in kind, and effected by the employment of his
mode of operationin substance."
To apply this doctrine to the Wells patent, let us ask:
WMat is the structure or device described in the Wells patent
as embodying his inventions? It consists, essentially, of a
rotating picker, a pervious, exhausted, conical "former," a
device intermediate to the picker and former, to guide and
shape the current of fur, to present a section of it to the
cone nearly in the form of a vertical section of the cone.
What mode of operation is introduced and employed by this
structure or device, that is, by the Wells machines?
The answer is, that operation is upon the fur; that its
peculiar treatment of the fur identifies its mode of operation;
that its mode of operation must be found in the relation
between it and the thing acted upon, to wit, the fur; and
that the adaptation and capacity of the machine to produce

Dec. 1863.]

]BUIti v. DUitYEE.
Argument for the Wells Patent.

and sustain that relation constitutes its principle; that is, its
mode of operation. Its treatment of the fur is to disintegrate
it, throw it into a current of air which it produces, forming.
a mixed current of fur and air, and thus suspend it, propelling it toward the cone, and while on its way guiding and
directing it, so that when it reaches the cone a section of the
current will nearly correspond with a vertical section of the
cone, and depositing it thence upon the cone in proper thickness for a hat-body.
"What result is obtained by means of this mode of operation," that is, by means of the operation of the Wells machine upon fur?
The result, which is matter of common knowledge and is
proved, is, that bodies are formed with such rapidity, and
of such quality, and out of such variety of 'tock, that the
manufacture of hats has been revolutionized; that fur is now
used for hats which could not before be used; that one machine forms from three hundred and fifty to four hundred
hat-bodies per day, while twenty was a large day's work for
a good workman by the old process of hand-bowing; that
fur bats are made better and out of less material by the operation of a machine than they were by hand-bowing; that
hats are greatly cheapened to the consumer by the operation
of this machine; and that hand-bowing, once the most difficult part of the hatter's trade, has now ceased to be any
part of it.
"-Does the spec/ieation of claim cover the described mode of
operation by which the result is attained.?"
The Wells specification does directly and expressly cover
the mode of operation. In Winans v. Denmead there was
some doubt as to whether or not the claim was sufficent to
cover the invention-that is, the mode of operation; but in
this case there can be no uncertainty. In view of the opinion
of the court in that and other cases holding the same doctrine, the claim of the reissued patent was made so as to
expressly cover the mode of operation of the Wells machine. This claim is for "the mode of operation" resulting
from the "combination" of the mechanism.

554

BuRR v.

DURYEE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the Wells Patent.

It is obvious that, where the invention is in machinery,
the mode of operation embodied in such machinery must constitute the essence of the means of producing the result. If
any one think otherwise, let him test it by supposing the
mode of operation to be taken away from the machine, and
see what will remain. To enforce this truth, imagine, if
possible, a machine without any mode of operation, and what
is it? Clearly nothing but the wood and metal composing
it. This shows that the mode of operation is the characterizing feature.*
II. The claim of the reissued machine patent (No. 1087)
is not void as being for an unpatentable subject-matter. It
will be insisted on the part of the appellees, that because the
claim expressly covers the "mode of operation" of the combination, it covers an abstraction or a result; and that such
a result as is not patentable. To this two answers may
suffice:
1. That the "mode of operation" of a combination in
machinery is neither an abstraction nor an unpatentable
result.
2. The phraseology having been recommended by this
court, and adopted by the owners of the patent pursuant to
such recommendation, the court will sustain it.
It will be further insisted on the part of the appellees, that
because the claim specifies that the "mode of operation"
claimed results from the combination of mechanism, therefore, the claim must cover an unpatentable result.
It is submitted that neither such reasoning nor such conclusion is sound:
-1. There cannot be a mode of operation of a combination
without the existence of the combination.
2. Creating or bringing into existence the combination, of
ecurse, produces the mode of operation.
* McCormick v. Seymour, 2 Blatchford, 246; Tatham et al. v. Le Roy,
1 Id., 485; O'Reilly v. Morse, 15 Howard, 62; McC]urg v. Kingsland, 1 Id.,
202; Curtis on Patents, 223; Morgan v. Seaward, Webster's Patent Cases,
170; Haworth v. Hardcastle, Id., 484; Nelson v. Harford, Id., 295; Walton
v. Potter, 587; Haddart v. Grimshaw, Id., 95; Russell v. Conley, Id., 463.

Dec. 1863.]

BURR V. DURYEE.

Argument for the Wells Patent.

3. It follows, therefore, that the mode of operation of a
combination of parts in machinery does residt from that combination.
The mode of operation is a property of the combination
and cannot exist without it. The phrase, "the mode of operation of a combination," has the same meaning as the
phrase, the mode of operation resulting from the combination.
As to ijfringement: The defendants infringe by using the
combination patented, varied only by the substitution of a
mechanical equivalent for one of the elements of the combination. The question respecting infringement is not whether
the defendant's machine is like the patentee's or is different
from the patentee's, because it may be greatly different, and
the differences may also be patentable and patented; but the
question is, whether or not the defendant's machine contains
the invention of the patentee.* The fact that an alteration
in a machine is patentable and patented as an improvement,
does not prevent its being a mechanical equivalent, and the
use of the machine an infringement.t
As to the reissued patent: The original patent of Wells sets
forth the invention which is claimed in the machine reissue
(No. 1087), and justifies and sustains that reissue.
The specification of that original patent consists of five
divisions:
1. A statement of what was needed.
2. A statement that he (Wells) had succeeded in accomplishing what others had tried in vain to do.
3. A general statement of the means by which he had
succeeded.
4. A description of such means and its mode of operation; and,
5. A specification of items claimed.
Both a machine for forming the bats (or fabric of the
body), and the process of removing them from the "former,"
* Curtis on Patents, 2d ed.,

224.

t McCormick v. Talcott, 20 Howard, 405; Crehoe & Brooks v. Norton,
Mram Nelson, J., Soulhern District of New York, A. D. 1853.

556

BuRn v.

DURYEE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the Wells Patent.

are described in this original specification. The machine
consists of three classes of mechanism. One to receive, disintegrate, and throw the fur; another to act upon, guide,
and direct the fur; and the other to receive and hold the
fur. A trunk was the means which he adopted to put in operation that idea; and it is acknowledged that that was the
best form of means which has yet ever been known for such
purpose. In his original specification he says, that this
trunk "is gradually changed in form toward the outlet,
where itassumes a shape nearly corresponding to a vertical
section passing through the axis of the cone, but narrower."
After giving this direction he states the object, and says it
is "for the purpose of concentrating and directing the fur."
Again, in this specification, he says, in describing the trunk:
"Its top is gradually elevated, and sides contracted, to make
the delivery aperture nearly of the form of a cone, but narrower and higher."
By this original patent three things are claimed in combination, irrespective of other parts:
1. The trunk or chamber.
2. The perforated cone or "' former."

3. The picker or brush.
This shows that he regarded this combination of leading
and essential parts as constituting the substance and essence
of his invention of the machinery; and it is submitted that
any reissue from this patent covering the mode of operation of
this combination is sustained by the original, and is good and
valid against the use of any equivalent of any of these three
parts.
A combination of the trunk, "former" and picker being
claimed in the original patent of Wells, irrespective of other
parts, was, perhaps, sufficient to cover the "mode of operation" of that combination, and the use of any "equivalents"
for either of those parts. But after the direction given by
this court in Winans v. Denmead, it became not only prudent
and proper for the owners of the patent, but their duty, to
have it so reissued as to expressly cover the mode of operation of the combination. It was pursuant to the directions

Dec. 1863.]

:BURR v. DUr.YEE.
Argument against the Wells Patent.

of this court in the case just named that the reissued machine
patent was obtained.
A patent may be valid and may have been so held to be
by a court, without being broad enough to cover the whole
invention. In such cases the act of Congress tenders the
patentee relief by reissuing to make his claim broader.* It
is no objection to a patent that it has been more than once
reissued.t If the last reissued patent claimed under be
adapted to the invention made by the patentee, and described
in his original patent, it is valid as a reissue, and it is immaterial how many prior reissues there may have been, or what
may have been the proceedings or mistakes in applications
for or in the granting of such prior reissues.t
The action of the Commissioner of Patents in accepting
a surrender of a patent and granting a reissue, is conclusive
that the prerequisites to the surrender did exist, unless fiaud
be shown.ยง
4. As to the reissued patent No. 1086,-the process patent.
Ponsford's patent, it is true, did exhibit a process of removing
the body from the cone on which it had been formed, similar
to the process of Wells. But the invention was defective
in not presenting or forming the body prior to its removal.
It was, therefore, an incomplete invention and substantially
different.
Messrs. George Harding and Courtland -Parker,for defendants:
As to the originality of Wells's machine patent.
In view of the prior inventions of Williams, the extent of
Wells's invention in the machine patent (No. 1087) may be
thus analyzed:
Batten v. Taggart, 17 Howard, 83.
O'Reilly v. Morse, 1-5 ld., 112.

Goodyear v. Day, 2 W'allace, Jr., 283; Woodworth v. Stone, 3 Story,
749, 753; Allen v. Blunt, 3 Id., 742-3; Carver v. Braintree Manufacturing
Co., 2 Id., 432-8.
Stimson v. The Westehester R. R. Co., 4 Howard, 380, 404; Same v. The
Philadelphia and Trenton RI. R. Co., 34 Peters, 448.
.;

[Sup. oCL

BURR V. DURYEE.
Argument against the Wells Patent.

I. In the machine patent, Wells substituted as a disintegrating agent for the carding machine, shown in figure 6,
page 538, the revolving brush, shown in figure 9, page 544.
11. Wells adopted from Williams's machine the following:
1. The hollow perforated removable formers, as shown in
figures 11 and 12, resting on horizontal wheels:

A

a

Fig. 11.

Fig. 12.

2. Two revolving perforated removable wheels, having rims projecting below to turn on, and secure the joint,
and cogs on their circumference to he
driven by; as shown in figure 13.

Fig. 13.

Fig. 14.

3. A central pinion, or an upright shaft, for driving these
wheels. (See figure 14.)

Fig. 15.

4. A cone-box capable of revolving, connected by a rim
with a lower box or conduit leading to the exhaust-box (as
shown in figure 15), having two sockets above for the conewheels.
5. A conduit from the cone-box to the fan-box, with at
socket above for the cone-box to revolve in, as in figure 16.

Dec. 1863.]

BURR V. DURYEE.
Argument against the Wells Patent.

6. A fan-box and fan with side passages for entrance of
air, as in figure 17.

Fig. 17.
Fi.16.

7. The use of a hollow perforated cover, to place over the
fur while on the former, after the material had been deposited, to retain it in position when removed from the
exhaust, and while subsequently treated.
IMl. Wells devised and introduced between his peculiar
disintegrating apparatus or brush and the vacuum cone
apparatus of Williams, the peculiar conduit, or trunk, or
tunnel, as it is called, with its hood and its flap, shown in
figure 20, page 560, and thus produced the complete machine
shown in figure 8, ante, p. 543.
As to the originality of the process patent of Wells.
In view of the prior inventions of Williams and of PonsLord, the Wells invention, in the process patent of Wells
(reissue No. 1086), may be thus analyzed:
Wells describes the covering of the body after it is formed
on the cone:
_First, with a cloth, which was the invention of Ponsford.
Second, with a perforated metallic conical case, which was
the invention of Ponsford and Williams.
Tdrd, the immersion of the whole in a vessel of boilinghot water, which was the invention of Ponsford.
It is, therefore, only necessary to say, that in view of Ponsford's English patent, Wells's reissue, No. 1086, claiming
exactly the same invention, should be declared to be void,

BUI R v. DURYEE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the Wells Patent.

As to Boyden's machine: Williams, Wells, andBoyden all used
P.
the Williams' vacuum cone apparatus,
,
- _
seefig. 18. Williams having employed
-

Ion

a carding machine and fan, F, as

shown in fig. 19, to disintegrate and
throw the fur on to the cones; Wells,
the one hand, substituted therefor a revolving brush, F, inclosed in
a tunnel or trunk, M, with a vibrating
nood or cap, s,as shown in figure 20.

Fig. 18.

machine and fan an open
picker, D, with a curved
~jguide plate, F, in front
of it, as shown in figure
21.
Fig. 21.

Dec. 1863.]

]3URn v. DUnrYE.
Argument against the Wells Patent.

As to the infringement of the machine patent:
The defendants do not infringe this patent upon any
construction of its claims which would not require the
patent to be declared void. In view of the new state of the
art, as shown by Williams's patent and that of Fosket,
Wells invented nothing but the peculiar device called a
"trunk," with two appendages, to wit, a "hood" and a lower
"flap" placed between the revolving brush or fur-throwing
mechanism and the perforated vacuum cone; and to this
combination of brush, trunk and cone his claim should be
limited by the court. The defendants do not use Wells's
invention, nor its principle. Wells proceeded upon the
principle of disseminating (or dissolving, as it were) the particles of fur thoroughly in a flowing stream of air, the movement of which air was readily controlled by a tube, on wellknown principles of aerostatics or hydraulics. The word
"tunnel;" used in Wells's specification of 1846, was perhaps the most expressive word, as indicating a tube having
a peculiar inlet and peculiar outlet, such as the ordinary
liquor and other tunnels.
Boyden abandoned all notion of the tube and its vibrating
appendage, and, instead of attempting to carry the fur by
an inclosed stream of air, commenced with the idea of treating the particles of fur as susceptible of having sufficient
momentum imparted to them to be projected for definite
distances and definite directions through tie open air, and bases
his machine upon that idea.
Boyden's machine may be thus analyzed:
1. He employed a revolving picker instead of a brush.
2. He adopted, as lie had a right to do, the revolving vacuum cone apparatus patented by Williams, and above set
forth.
3. Instead of placing a "trunk," as shown in figure 20, between the disintegrating apparatus and the cone, he placed
in front of and opposite to the picker a series of plates
having different angles of elevation, so as to throw different
portions of fibres of fur to different heights on the cone.
VOL. 1.

36

BURR V. DURYEE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the Wells Patent.

Experience soon showed him that it could be so reduced
to a system that the fur could, by a proper combination
of inclined planes, of varied surface and inclination to the
picker, be made to deposit itself in any manner desired.
In fixing the angles of the planes
B there must be a reference had
to the influence which gravity

c

exerts on all projectile bodies.

Thus, if a body be projectedfrom A in the direction of the
line A B, instead of pursuing
A
fD
the course of the line A B, gravity will cause it to constantly
fall from it, and to travel in the
path indicated by the dotted line A C. Allowance is always
made for this in gunnery, and a similar allowance has to be
made for the influence of gravity in adjusting the Boyden
planes.
The width of the planes is determined by the relative
amount of fur that is required at the part of the cone intersected by each plane respectively. Thus the zone, at the
base of the cone, one inch wide, as compared with a zone
one inch wide at the top, would require very different
amounts of fur; first, because of the much greater area of
depositing surface presented at the base of the cone; an*d,
second, because of the greater depth of deposit required at
the base. Hence, the width of the plane which points towards the base of the cone is very many times wider than
that which points towards the top.
As the one set of planes, when adjusted for a particular
cone, will answer for any number of bodies to be formed on
that cone, the machine is automatic, requiring only new
planes when the cone is changed. The invention is thus
described in Boyden's patent:
"This invention relates to an improved mode of directing or
guiding the fur to the cone, as hereinafter fully shown and described, whereby trunks and all other comparatively complicated

Dec. 1863.]

Bu~it v. DUItyrm.
Argument against the Wells Patent.

appliances hiikerto used for the purpose are dispensed with, and ma
exceedingly simple and efficient device substituted therefor.
"The invention consists in placing directly in front of the
pickter a plate, so bent or curved that its surface will have a certain relative position with the axis of the picker and the surface
of the cone, and give such a direction to the fur, as the latter is
thrown on it by the rapid motion of the picker, that the fur will
be drawn properly on the cone by the exhaust or suction
-withinit."
The Wells disintegrating arrangement is shown in figure
9 (ante, p. 544), and its operation is that of brushing the fur
while held between the feed-rollers. A picker was no part
of his device.
U- Subject to what the court may decide on what precedes, we contend that the claim of the Wells reissued patent
is void, as being for a function, principle, or result; that the
term "mode of operation" was used in the claim and
throughout the Wells reissued specification, No. 1087-the
machine patent-to characterize the function or result produced by the machinery, and not the manner or mode in
which the physical parts comprising the Wells machine are
combined and co-operate to produce that result.
In the reissue-No. 1087-obtained with a view to stop
the Boyden machine, after a full inspection of it, the invention of Wells is thus described:
"The mode of operation of the said invention of the said Henry
A. Wells is such that the fur fibres are directed and controlled
so as to travel from the picking and disintegrating brush to.
wards the surface of the pervious cone or other former, that they
may be deposited thereon to the thickness required to make a
bat of uniform thickness all around, and of the required varying
thickness from brim to tip, and this mode of operation results
from combining with a rotary picking and disintegrating brush,
and a pervious cone or equivalent former, connected with an
exhausting apparatus, suitablemeans for directing and controlling the fur-bearing currents.
""The said mode of operation, invented by the said Henry A.
Wells, is embodied in the following description of the mode of

564

BURR V. DURYEE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the Wells Patent.
application, reference being had to the accompanying drawings."

Then iollows a description of the machine as in the original patent, with these exceptions: 1. The word "hood"
which occurred in the original patent is omitted, and the
word "upper deflector" substituted for it. 2. The word
"hinged flap" is omitted, and "lower deflector" substituted
throughout. 3.A clause near the end of the original patent
of 1846 is altered obviously with the intention of changing
an important feature of his invention. See ante, p. 547, in the
statement of the case, to which the reader can turn.
After describing the machine as shown in the drawing,
and described in the original patent, the specification of No.
1087 resumes thus:
"Raving thus described the mode of application of the said
invention of the said Henry A. Wells, as the same was success-fully reduced to practice by him, I do not wish to be understood
as limiting the claim of my invention to such mode of application; as other modes may be devised having the same mode of
operation, or principle, and only differing from it in form, or in
the substitution of equivalent means.
"Nor do I wish to be understood as making claim therein to
the combined process of forming and hardening hat-bodies on
pervious cones or other analogous formers, preparatory to taking
them off in a suitable condition for the after-process of sizing
by felting, as this is the subject of another patent.
"1. What I claim as the invention of the said Henry A. Wells,
in machinery for forming bats of fur fibres, in the manufacture
of fur hat-bodies, is the mode of operation substantially as herein
described, of forming bats of fur fibres of the required varying
t] iickness from brim to tip, which mode of operation results from
fhe combination of the rotating picking mechanism, or the
equivalent thereof, the pervious former and its exhausting methanism, or the equivalent thereof, and the means for directing
the far-bearing current, or the equivalent thereof, as set forth."
A striking feature about this claim, and indeed about the
whole reissued specification, is that while professing I oldly

Bunp v.

Dec. 1863.1J

DURYEE.

Argument against the Wells Patent.

to describe and claim a mode of operation, it neither de
scribes what that mode of operation is, nor does it state in
what parts, or combination of parts, of machinery -thatmode
of operation is to be found.
Thus, in the first clause of the former of the passages above
quoted, if the question be asked, What is the mode of operation which Wells invented? the answer would be "s t ch,"
that the fur fibres are so directed and controlled so as to
form a bat of proper thickness.
The recital of Wells's invention, in the preamble, is equivalent precisely to this: "The mode of operation of the said
invention of Wells is ' suck' that the fur fibres are directed
and controlled so as to form a bat, thicker at the brim than
tip, and ' it results' from combining with a revolving brush
and cone 'suitable means,' i. e. anything that will suit for
accomplishing this result;" or, in other words, Wells's invention extends to the use of anything in connection with a
revolving picker and cone which will "suit," and the first
claim is in terms coextensive therewith, and the patent
must be held to be void, unless the claim be so construed as
to be limited to the substantial devices shown in the body
of the patent.
Where an improvement is made upon a machine, the patentee can only claim the part, or combination of parts,
which he has invented. It is otherwise where the invention
is a process, strictly so speaking, in which the treatment of
substances is entirely independent of the mechanical appliances.* In Nielson v. Tarford,-=-the Neilson Hot Blast case,the invention consisted not in a machine, but in the discoverv
of a process; so in Goodyear's invention. This distinctioi
was pointed out by

TANEY,

0. J., in 3ilorse v. O'lReilly.t

IEL Subject to the two fbrmer points, we contend that
the reissued machine patent is void. Because,
1. It is for a different invention from that set forth in the
original patent as Wells's invention.
Corning v. Bowden, 15 Howard. 252.

f1(,

62: and see Nielson i Harf)rd, 1 Webster's Patent Cases, 295.

BURR v. DURYEE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

2. The original patent was not surrendered because the
description or claims were "insufficient," or inoperative
through accident or mistake; but because, in the language
of the oath filed with "theapplication for reissue, it was "not
fully available to A. Burr as assignee." The act of Congress does not authorize a surrender and reissue upon any
such ground.
But these two grounds are not pressed, except in the event
of the court declaring that the defendant's machine infringes
upon that patent.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
The great question of the case is, whether the Boyden
machine infringes the patent originally granted to Wells for
his invention; and if not, whether his assignees, by the use
or abuse of the right to surrender and reissue their patent,
can so expand it as to cover by ex post facto operation, all
subsequent inventions.
The original patent to Wells purports to be for "a new
and useful improvement in the machine for making hatbodies." His specification recites that "it had long been
essayed to make hat-bodies by throwing the fibres of wool,
&c., by a brush or picker on a perforated cone exhausted by
a fan below, to carry and hold the fibres thereon; that all
these contrivances were defective." He alleges that he has
improved this machine so as to remove all the objections, as
proved by the test of experiment. "MAy improvement," he
says, "consists in feeding the fur between two endless belts,
&c., which present it to the action of a rotating brush, which
moving at a great velocity throws it in a chamber or tunnel,
which is gradually changed in form towards the outlet, where
it assumes the shape nearly corresponding to a vertical sect.ion passing through the axis of the cone, this casing being
provided with an aperture, immediately under the brush,
through which a current of air enters," &c. The aperture
of the chamber or tunnel is provided with a bonnet or hood
hinged thereto, and at the bottom with a hinged flap.
Beside the machine thus described, he includes a claim

Dec. 1868.]

:BUiti v. DURYFF.
Opinion of the court.

also for a process which consists in covering the bat before
it is removed with felted fulled cloth, &c. As our present
concern is with the machine, we need not describe the process more particularly.
The patentee very properly does not claim to have first
invented the art of making hats on exhausted cones, but to
have improved the machinery or devices used for this purpose, in important particulars. After properly describing
the several devices, the combination of which compose his
improved machine, he limits his claim in exact conformity
with such description. He says: "What I claim as my
invention, and desire to secure by letters patent, in the
machinery above described, is the arrangement of the two
feeding-belts with their planes inclined, &c., substantially as
described, in combination with the rotating brush and tunnel
placed in front of the aperture or mouth thereof, substantially
as described. I claim the chamber into which the fibres are
thrown by the brush in combination with the perforated
cone, &c. I also claim the employment of the hinged hood
and providing the lower flap, for the purpose of regulating
the delivery to increase the thickness of the bat, in combination with the hood."
This patent was first surrendered in September, 1856, by
the assignee, and separate patents taken for the machine and
the process: the same operation of surrender and reissue was
repeated in 1860. The specification of the machine patent
of 1860 (No. 1087) describes the machine much as before,
premising that, in 1846, William Fosket had obtained a
patent for a machine in which the fibres to be formed into a
hat-body are drawn by suction through a tube into the lower
part of a chamber surrounding a pervious cone, the inside of
which is connected with an exhausting fan; but that hatbodies are required to be made thick at or near the brim, and
thin along the crown, that the required strength may be
given without making the hat too heavy. The specification
thus continues: " The said mode of operation invented by said
.HenryA. Wells is embodicd in the following description," &c.,
and the claim is modified to suit this abstraction. "Wbat is

:BURR

v. DUR YEE..

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of the court.

claimed herein as the invention of said Wells is forming bats
of fur fibres by throwing the fur in properly regulated quantities, substantiallyas herein described."
Here we have the first experiment in the art of expansion
by an equivocal claim, which may be construed a claim for
the result or product of the machine, or for its principle or
mode of operation. By this construction another inventor
may be frightened from the course. But when challenged
in a court of justice as too broad, the words, "substantially
as herein described," may be resorted to as qualifying this
claim of a function, result, or principle, and arguing that
as the specification described a machine, it meant nothing
more.
Let us consider what was the original invention of Wells,
as described and claimed by himself, without regard to this
ingenious attempt by the assignee to expand it into an abstraction.
It is not within the category of those inventions which
consist in a new application of certain natural forces to produce a certain result to which they had never before been
applied, and which, when once pointed out, required no
invention to construct devices for its application. Such inventions partake of the nature of discoveries, either found
out by experiment or the result of a happy thought, which,
when once expressed, is plain to all intelligent persons, who
could point out at once many devices for making it effectual.
Any one can perceive the difference of such a case from the
invention of a labor-saving machine, which is a mere combination of certain mechanical devices to produce a desired
manufacture in a cheaper or better manner. The case of
IMcLurg v. Kingsland* will serve to elucidate this peculiar
sort of inventions.
A workman in a foundry observed, in pumping water into
a bucket, that the water entering at a tangent to the circle
of the bucket, acquired a circular motion, diminishing when
it approached the centre, where bits of straw and other lighter
* 1 Howard, 202.

Dec. 1863.]

]3URRi v. DUityim.
Opinion of the court.

materials would be concentrated. In casting iron rolls, the
metal required to have this rotary motion for the same purpose. This effect had previously been produced by stirring
the liquid metal. The thought all at once struck the mindof this observer, that the application of this principle or law
of nature might be beneficially made to the casting of rolls
by merely introducing the metal at the bottom of the mould
at a tangent.. The thought being once suggested, it required
no skill or invention to devise a plan for the application of
the principle. This, though classed as an invention, partook
more of the nature of a discovery. In that case the court
say, "We find the invention consists solely in the angular
direction given to the tube through which the metal is conducted into the cylinder in which the roll is cast. Every
part of the machinery is old; the roll itself is no part of the
invention." And yet, it was a patentable invention or discovery, though it came not within the description of the
statute, as "a machine, manufacture, or composition of
matter."
It is plain that the invention of Wells had nothing of the
nature of a discovery, or the new application of some power
of nature to the perfection of an art or the operation of a
machine, such as the application of the electro-galvanic fluid
to the art of telegraphic writing. It was simply a concrete
machine, an improvement on other known machines, and
nothing more. Wells was not the first who discovered that
bats of fur could be made on perforated cones by means of
a vacuum or exhausted chamber. The patent to Williams,
in 1833, was the first great step towards applying these
natural forces to labor-saving machinery in the art of hat-

making. He was the first to use the power of atmospheric
pressure to deposit fur or fibrous materials on any surface.
He used a carding machine to disintegrate the fur or fibres;
a revolving fan to throw them on the cones; the hollow perforated cones or formers connected with devices for exhausting them; and the use of a hollow perforated cone to place
over the bat, to retain it in position when removed from the
exhaust. His drawing exhibited, as a substitute for a trunk

570

Bun v. DURYEE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

or conductor, a roof without side or bottom, in the shape of
a pliable deflector.
Without particularly noticing the patent of Robertson, in
1838, or of Hezekiah Miller, in 1839, we may mention that
of Fosket. It is dated in January, 1846. ie used a bowstring moved by machinery, in place of the rotating picker
used by others. He used what he describes as " a suitable
passage or tube which leads from the vicinity to what may
be termed the forming or wind chamber." We refer to
these previous inventions, not to show that Wells's improvement was not new or useful, but to show the state of the art,
in order to properly appreciate the nature and extent of the
invention of Wells.
The patent act grants a monopoly "to any one who
may have discovered or invented any new and useful art,
machine, manufacture, or composition of matter."
That the invention of Wells comes within the category of
a "machine," cannot be disputed. The law requires that the
specification "should set forth the principle and the several
modes in which he has contemplated the application of that
principle, or character by which it may be distinguished
from other inventions, and shall particularly point out the
part, improvement, or combination which he claims as his
own invention or discovery." We find here no authority to
grant a patent for a "principle" or a "mode of operation,"
or an idea, or any other abstraction. A machine is a concrete thing, consisting of parts, or of certain devices and
combination of devices. The principle of a machine is properly defined to be "its mode of operation," or that peculiar
combination of devices which distinguish it from other machines. A machine is not a principle or an idea. The use
of ill-defined abstract phraseology is the frequent source of
error. It requires no great ingenuity to mystify a subject'
by th. use of abstract terms of indefinite or equivocal meaning. Because the law requires a patentee to explain the
mode of operation of his peculiar machine, which distinguishes it from others, it does not authorize a patent for a
"mode of operation as exhibited in a machine." Much less

Dec. 1863.]

BURit v.

DUityEm.

Opinion of the court.

can any inference be drawn from the statute, that an inventor
who has made an improvement in a machine, and tbus efihcts
the desired result in a better or cheaper manner than before,
can include all previous inventions, and have a claim to the
whole arit, discovery, or machine which he has improved.
All others have an equal right to make improved machines,
provided they do not embody the same, or substantially the
same devices, or combination of devices, which constitute
the peculiar characteristic of the previous invention.
The original patent of Wells has beet more than once
decided by the courts to be a valid patent. The specification states clearly and correctly what the invention is.; what
the patentee claims as his peculiar improvement on -former
machines; what are the devices, or peculiar combination of
them, which make it to differ, and the mode in which they
operate to produce the required result. He claims all he
had a right to claim as new, and no more. There is no
error from "'inadvertences, accident, or mistake."
The aim and object of both Wells and Boyden was to
construct an automatic machine which would distribute the
fur on the cones so that the bat might be thicker on certain
portions than on others. This was the defect of former
machines, which each proposed to remedy. Fosket, though
he used a spout or tunnel, so constructed it that the crown
of the hat was thicker where it ought to have been thinner.
The great and peculiar characteristic of the Wells invention is a tunnel or chamber, constructed as described. Instead of the picker, he used a rotating brush to distribute
the fur from the feed-aprons, and throw it forward into the
chamber which conducted it to the cones. The hinged hood
and flap were devices to distribute the material in unequal
quantities, to accomplish the object of making the bat
thicker in one part than another. This machine, although
an improvement on its predecessors, was not automatic,
although it professed to be such. It would not distribute
the fur in proper proportions without the assistance of a
skilful operator. But, finally, Messrs. Burr & Taylor, after
ranch expense and labor, devised the plan of making this

:BURR v. :DURYEE.

ISup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

chambei or trunk of thin sheet metal, regulated by a movable top, so that the deposit of the fibres could be regulated
by adapting the form of the delivery aperture to any size
required.
Now, the machine of Boyden has not one of the peculiar
devices, or combination of devices, of the Wells machine,
nor any substantial identity with it, unless by substantial
identity is meant. every machine which produces the same
effect. These abstract phrases, "substantial identity," "equivalent," "mode of operation," &c., are often used in such a
vague and equivocal manner, that they mystify and lead
many to absurd conclusions, who will not distinguish between things that differ. That two machines produce the
same effect, will not justify the assertion that they are substantially the same, or that the devices used by one are,
therefore, mere equivalents for those of the other. There
is nothing in the Wells machine or its devices which suggests the peculiar device employed by Boyden. His machine
has no tunnel, no cap, no flap, nor any equivalent therefor,
nor does it incorporate in its structure the substance of the
first invention. Thereis nothing to be found in the specification of Wells which would ever suggest the peculiar device
of the Boyden machine. As an improvement,. it has more
claim to originality than that of Wells. It is thus correctly
described: "This invention relates to an improve.d n-ode
of directing and guiding the fur, as hereinafter fully shown
and described, whereby trunks and all other comparatively
complicated appliances hitherto used for the purpose are
dispensed with, and an exceedingly simple and efficient
device substituted therefor. The invention consists in placing directly in front of the picker a plate so bent or curved
that its surface will have a certain relative positien with the
axes of the picker and the surface of the cone, and give such
a direction to the fur, as the latter is thrown on it by the
rapid motion of the picker, that the fur will be drawn properly on the cone by the exhaust or suction within it."
Now, "an infringement involves substantial identity,
whether that identity be described by the terms, 'same

Dec. 1863.]

BURR v. DURYE.
Opinion of the court.

principle,' same modus operandi,' or any other. It is a copy
of the thing described in the specification of the patentee,
either without variation, or with such variations as are consistent with its being in substance the same thing. If the
invention of the patentee be a machine, it will be infringed
by a machine which incorporates in its structure and operation the substance of the invention; that is, by an arrangement of mechanism which performs the same service or
produces the same effect in the same way, or substantially
the same way."*
No one who reads the two specifications, or inspects the
two machines, can aver that they contain the same combination of mechanical devices, or substantially the same, to
produce the desired effect. N'ot one of the devices, or its
equivalent, used in the one is to be found in the other, nor
is its mode of operation the same. The argument used to
show infringement assumes that every combination of devices in a machine which is used to produce the same effect,
is necessarily an equivalent for any other combination used
for the same purpose. This is a flagrant abuse of the term
"equivalent."
Without attempting to define this abstract
term by other abstract terms, we may give examples which
will best show its application to machines, as, where a simple
lever is used in one, and the other substitutes a cam, or toggeljoint, or wedge for a cam, and many other cases where one
mechanical power is substituted for another in a machine.
In the case of McCormiek v. Talbot,t we have said: "If the
invention claimed be itself but an improvement on a known
machine by a mere change of form or combination of parts,
the patentee cannot treat another as an infringer who has
improved the original machine by use of a different form, or
combination performing the same functions. - The inventor
of the first improvement cannot invoke the doctrine of equivalents to suppress all other improvements which are not
colorable invasions of the first."
But it has been argued, that though not a colorable in.
vasion of the patentee's claim, it is an evasion of his patent,
*Curtis on Patents, 322.

t 20 Howard, 405.

BURR v. DURYE.

[Sup. CL

Opinion of the court.

which is equally injurious. If so, it is "damnum absque injuria." Every man has a right to make an improvement in
a machine, and evade a previous patent, provided he does
not invade the rights of the patentee.
Now we are of opinion that the invention of Wells was a
machine which was an improvement on the machines previously known. It is not founded on any new discovery of
the application of any element or power of nature to produce an effect. He was not the first to devise the application
of a vacuum to cones for the purpose of forming and compressing bats for hat-bodies, nor the first to discover that
such bats should be made of unequal thickness, nor of
pickers to distribute the fur from the carding apparatus.
He has improved this machinery by his peculiar devices of
brush, trunk, cap, flap, &c., combined in a machine which
failed to be automatic till further improved. We are of
opinion, also, that the specification of Wells correctly set
forth the peculiar combination of devices in the machine he
invented, that, as required by the statute, he truly and correctly stated the principle or mode of operation of his machine, and the functions performed by its several devices.
There was no mistake in his specification by inadvertency
or accident. He had a valid patent claiming his whole invention,-no more, no less.
But as the respondents are charged in the bill with infringement of a reissued patent, dated 3d December, 1860,
and since the patent granted to Boyden, we must give it
more special attention. It is true, we might dispose of it
by saying, that as the machine of Boyden is not an infringement of the original invention of Wells, it cannot infringe
the reissued patent if it be for the same invention, and if
the reissued patent be not for the same invention, it is void.
Without affirming or denying the charge of respondents,
that this reissued patent is fraudulent as well as void, it
will be proper more particularly to notice its history and
contents.
The patent to Boyden was issued on the 10th of January,
1860. The complainants were invited to examine it. They

Dec. 1863.]

BURit v. DUnYBE.
Opinion of the court.

did so, accompanied by their counsel and other experts.
After this, the complainants surrendered their valid patent,
or rather its reissue of 1856, and have another reissue, which
is now contended to have been made so elastic or expanded
that it maybe used to suppress all other inventions which have
been or may be made to effect the same purpose. The application for this reissue, as sworn to by one of the assignees,
contains the following suggestion: "That the aforesaid patent is not fully available to him, as assignee; that said error
has arisen from inadvertence, accident, or mistake," &c.
Previous to the Patent Act of 1836, which established a
board or bureau composed of competent examiners, patents
had frequently been adjudged invalid from the insufficiency
of the specification; usually because, by inadvertency, accident, or mistake, the patentee had not sufficiently separated
the old fiom the new, and had claimed more than he was
entitled to. Few inventors, or even learned lawyers, were
capable of correctly and clearly setting forth in a specification the proper limits of the just claim of the invention.
The thirteenth section was intended to remedy this evil, by
permitting the patentee to surrender his defective patent,
and have it renewed in proper form, "whenever it shall be inoperative or invalid, by reason of a defective or insufficient description or.spec2fication, or by reason of the patentee claiming in
his specification as his own, invention more than he had a
right to claim as new, if the error has arisen by inadvertency, accident, or mistake," &c.
Since the date of this act, not only the Patent Office but
the bar can furnish gentlemen fully competent to the task of
drawing up proper specifications, and but little liable to commit blunders from inadvertency. Specifications now seldom
issue from the Patent Office to which such an imputation

can be made. Nevertheless, this privilege of surrender and
reissue is resorted to more frequently than ever. Formerly,
when in course of investigation in a court of justice it was
discovered that a patent was invalid for any of the reasons
mentioned in the act, it was resorted to for protection. -Arow,
after a patent has been declared to be valid, the specification

BuRR v.

DURYEE.

[Sup. or.

Opinion of the court.

without defect, and the claim for nothing more than the
invention, after it has undergone examination for many
years, and'courts and juries have decided that the patent is
not invalid, through inadvertency, accident, or mistake, the
assignees come forward and make oath, that the inventor's
original patent is "unavailable" for some purpose unnecessary to be divulged. In the present case the purpose is
transparent. The specification of this reissued patent, instead of describing first the machine and the several devices
which exhibit its peculiar mode of operation in order to
produce the desired effect, and stating what the patentee
claims as his peculiar invention, commences by describing
"a mode of operation" as the thing intended to be patented,
and uses these words: "The said mode of operation,invented
by the said Henry A. Wells, is embodied in the following
description of the mode of application." The claim is for
the "mode of operation, substantially as herein described."
We have no leisure for a further development of this novel
form of patent, or how, by the use of general and abstract
terms, the specification is made so elastic that it may be construed to claim only the machine, or so expanded as to include
all previous or future inventions for the same purpose.
Morse was certainly the first who successfully applied the
element of electro-magnetism to telegraphing. By the
eighth claim of his reissued patent he claimed "not the specific machine described, but the use of the motive power of
the galvanic current however developed for printing signs
or letters at a distance, being a new application of that power
of which he was the first discoverer."
On which this court remark,* "It is impossible to misunderstand the extent of this claim, if it be maintained, it matters not by what process or machinery the result is accomplished. Another may possibly discover a mode of writing
or printing at a distance by means of the electric or galvanic
current, without using any part of the process or combination set forth in plaintiff's specification. Yet if it is covered
* O'Reilly v. Morse, 15 Howard, 112.

Dec.1863.]

Buiti v. DURYEE.
Opinion of the court.

by this patent the inventor could not use it, nor the public
have the benefit of it, &e. The court is of opinion it i- toe
broad and not warranted by law."
i this case we have an attempt to convert an improved
machine into an abstraction, a principle or mode of operation, or a still more vague and indefinite entity often resorted
to in argument, an "idea." Those who use the latter term
seem to have no fixed idea of what they mean by it. But it
may be used as successfully to mystify a plain matter as the
words used in the specification.
The Patent Bureau in this country is composed of men of
scientific attainments, who examine the merits of every
claimant of a patent, and decide whether in their opinion it
attempts to claim a monopoly of things before known or
invented. They are not expected, as formerly, to grant a
patent without inquiring, to every applicant who is ready to
pay the fees. Such a course of conduct would be highly
injurious to the public, by furnishing means to impose oir
the public by false pretences, and with threats of expensive
and ruinous litigation.
The surrender of valid patents, and the granting of reissued patents thereon, with expanded or equivocal claims,
where the original was clearly neither "inoperative nor invalid," and whose specification is neither "defective or insufficient," is a great abuse of the privilege granted by the
statute, and productive of great injury to the public. This
privilege was not given to the patentee or his assignee
in order that the patent may be rendered more elastic or
expansive, and therefore more "available" for the suppression of all other inventions.
We concur, therefore, in the decision of the Circuit Court,
that the machine of Boyden is not an infringement of the
invention of Wells; and if it be an infringement of the reissued patent, that patent is void.
2. The bill claims, also, for an infringement of Wells's
reissued patent for his process. This has not been much
insisted on. The respondents contend that it is void, being
for the same invention patented to Ponsford, in England, in
VOL. 1.

87

B3URIR

v.

DUIRYEIL

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

1839, and known to Wells, who was at the time in England.
This allegation we find to be fully supported by the evidence,
and decide accordingly.
DECREE APPIRMED WIT1 COSTS.

NOTE.

At the same time with the preceding cases, or rather immediately afterwards, two other cases, appeals from the New
Jersey district, between the same parties and relating to the
same general subject of hat-bodies, were heard; the same
counsel who had argued the first and principal case, arguing
these two also; though not at length, as from the fact already
mentioned, to wit, that the principles involved were the
same, it was understood that the decision of these two would
follow the decision of the first and principal case. The first of
these two cases decided simply a point of fact, to wit, that
the machine known as the "Boyden machine," and so largely
discussed in the principal case, was not an infringement of a
patent granted in the same department of manufacture to a
certain Hopkins: no reasons being assigned; GRIER, J., who
delivered the opinion of the court, remarking that, while their
honors had come to a conclusion satisfactory to their own
minds, it was impracticable to "vindicate" it without the use
of the "large museum of exhibits in the shape of machines
and models" which had been presented on the argument of
all these three cases, and which "were absolutely necessary
to give the court a proper understanding of the merits of the
controversy." The result, therefore, was stated; the curious
being referred for reasons to those given by the defendant's
witness, Mr. Tredwell, examined in the case. This decree,
too, was affirmed with costs.
The other of the two cases admits of a certain kind of
report, now given, as on the three pages which follow.

Dec. 1863.]

BuRut v. DURYEE.

Statement of the case.

SAME V. SAME.

No. 231.
The "Boyden machine" does not infringe the patent of A. B. Taylor.
The practice of reissuing patents for the purpose of interpolating abstract generalizations, so as to cover subsequent inventions made by
others, is condemned.
B LL in chancery, by which the complainant charged that the
defendants were using a certain machine for the manufacture of
hat-bodies, which infringed a patent originally granted in 185G
to a certain A. B. Taylor, and subsequently, in 1860, reissued,
for hardening the bodies of hats by means of rollers while on
the perforated cone upon which they had been formed, with a
contrivance to give them the reciprocating motion required in
the operation of being hardened. In the original patent of
Taylor, of 1856, the claim was limited to his "arrangement" for
hardening the body in a dry state, by "machinery operating substantially as set forth." The complainant, who had purchased
this patent, afterwards, however, saw the machine knowni as
Boyden's, and more particularly described in the preceding case.
He then (1860) surrendered his patent and obtained a reissue, in
which he altered his claim of invention from an "arrangement
of machinery" to a claim for a "vibrating concave surface."
The difference between the invention as claimed in the original
patent, and as subsequently set forth, as well as the general nature of his invention and claim, will appear more minutely by
the juxtaposition of them in parallel columns.
OriginalPatent, 1856.
The object of my improvements is
to harden the bat sufficiently to permit it to be removed from the perforated cone without the application of
water, and to facilitate the removal
of the bat from the cone without requiring the latter to be taken from its
position in the machine. These improvements consist in a mechanical
process of hardening the bat before

Rissue, 1860.

My said invention, which relates
to the hardening of the bat on tho
pervious cone on which it is formed,
and while the fibres constituting the
bat arc held to the surface of the cone
by the pressure of the surrounding
air, consists in combining with a perforated cone, on which the bat of the
fibres is held by the pressure of the
surrounding air, a vibrating ooncave
it is removed from the cone, and in suface, held by pressure,so as to act on
facilitating the removal of the bat the convex surface of the bat as it is vifrom the cone by means of a blast of brat4d, by means of which combina-

B URR

v.

[Sup. Ct.

D)URYEE.

Opinion of the court.
air forced through the cone. Thcre
are also various improvements in the
arrangement and construction of the
machinery devised by me, as will
hereih after more fully appear.

tion a large segment of the bat, along
its entire length, is acted upon at once
by the concave surface, while, by the
rotation, every part of the circumference is brought, in succession, under
the hardening operation.

Claim.

Claim.

What I claim as my invention and
desire to secure by Letters Patent, is
the arrangement for hardening the
hat-body in a dry state, by machinery
operating substantially as herein set
forth.

What I claim as my invention is,
the combination of a vibratingconcave
surface, substantially as described,
with an exhausted pervious cone, on
which the bat of flocculent fibres is
held by the pressure of the surrounding air, substantially as and for the
pu7pose
cpeified.

The argument was chiefly upon the points, how far the reissue
was for a principle or function as distinguished from a machine,
and how far such a patent was valid; and also, whether the
reissue was or was not for the same thing granted in the original patent; matters discussed much more fully in the principal ease.
M1r. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
After the observations made in the preceding and principal
case, it is not necessary to make further remarks on the art of
extending patents. It may be ranked "INTER INGENUAS ARTES,"
and may have the claim of novelty, if not of usefulness.
In this case, the invention of Taylor was the application of
pressure by means of rollers, with a contrivance to give them
the reciprocating motion necessary to this process of hardening.
He was not the inventor of the conical cover used in hardening
hat-bodies formed on a cone, nor of rubbing them by a reciprocating motion, but merely of a certain combination of devices
to produce a certain effect. Both the operation and the result
were well known, and the invention consisted only of the devices combined to perform the operation and produce the result.
It was open to every other person to make any other combination of devices to perform the operation, which was not a
mere colorable adoption of the patentee's combination. The
original specification of Taylor is drawn with sufficient care and

Dec. 1863.]

BURR v. DUR.YEE.

Opinion of the court.

judgment to cover all the patentee knew he had invented, and
the whole machine as described therein.
A comparison of the devices used in the two machines would be
unintelligible without models or drawings. The Taylor patent
is but for a form, or rather a combination of known devices, to
perform a certain operation and produce a certain desirable
effect. The combination used by Boyden is not a mere colorable
or substantial adoption of the same combination of devices. It
has as much z.ctin to originality as that of Taylor; but it has a
vibrating contue 6urface of cloth, pressing against the cone.
Accordingly, the tessued patent to Taylor, or rather to Burr, got
up after an examination of Boyden's machine, contained this interpolation in the description of his invention, "A vibrating concave curface held by pressure," &c., &c.; and the claim extended to
the "combination of a vibrating concave surface; then follow
the words, "substantially as described." In a contest with a previous patent, the last words can be called in to qualify the first,
and narrow it down to the peculiar combination of devices described; while, in assaulting a new combination, for the purpose
of suppressing it, the claim may be stretched to cover every
machine having a "concave vibrating surface," by calling all the
other parts "equivalents."
It is plain that this interpolation of an abstract gen'eralization, to render the specific description of the concrete machine
more elastic, was suggested by an examination of the Boyden
machine. If the same construction be given to the claim of
Taylor, as it would necessarily invoke in a contest with preceding inventions, to save it from the charge of being too broad,
the Boyden machine would be properly pronounced as no infringement: on the contrary, such a construction of it as would
include the Boyden machine, would make it void for being too
broad. It matters little on which horn of this dilemma the case
be put, the result must necessarily be the same.
DECREE AFFIRMED WITH COSTS.

