Drsc. 1863.]

BAYNE v. M0RRtis.
Statement of the case.

As the evidence offered, and overruled by the court, could
not have established a defence to the case made by the plaintiff below, the court did not err in refusing to receive it.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED WITH COSTS.

BAYNE v. MorRis.
I. Where an award made under submission by parties plaintiff and defendant to that effect, awards that one party shall pay to the other a certain
sum on one day specified, another sum on another day specified, and that
to secure the payments he shall give a bond in a penal sum, and the
party against whom the award is made refuses to do any of the things
awarded, an action of debt will lie against him even although the timer
when both sums of money were awarded to be paid has not yet arrived.
'1'he right of action is perfect on the party's refusal to give the bond.
2. The power of arbitrators is exhausted when they have once finally determined matters before them. Any second award is void.

BAYNE & MORRIS having differences with each other, agreed

to refer them to arbitrators, who besides being authorized to,
determine the amount to be paid, were authorized to award
upon what terms, as to time and security, the payment should be
made. On the 23d of January, 1858, the arbitrators made
an award, and on the 26th of the same month made a second
one. Both were received in evidence on the trial below,
although the pleadings were fiamed solely with reference to
the last one. This adjudged that Morris should pay to Bayne
one sum on the 28th of July, 1858; a second sum on the 20th
of January, 1859; and a third sum on the 20th of January,
1860; andthat to secure the payment of these sums he should
give to Bayne a bond with penalty and surety. No bond
being given, Bayne, on the 28th of January, 1858, that is to
say, before any of the sums awarded to be paid had fallen due, sued
Morris in an action of debt; the declaration setting forth,
that "the defendant hath not given the said plaintiff the said
bond for the security of the payments aforesaid, although
often thereto requested; nor hath he paid the said money
nor any part thereof, but the same to pay hath refused;
whereby an action hath accrued to the said plaintiff to have
VOL. 1.

7

BAYNE V. MORRIS.

[Sup. ct.

Opinion of the court.

the said sums of money or satisfactory security for the payment of the same, to the damage," &c.
The court below (the Circuit Court for the District of Maryland), instructed the jury that if the suit was brought
before either of the sums of money became due, the plaintiff
could not recover, and the correctness of this ruling was the
point, on error, here.
No considerable objection was taken below to the validity
of the second award, that, to wit, of 26th of January.
lfr. Brent for the plaintiffin error, and M/lr. Wallis contra.
Mr. Justice DAVIS, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court:
The court did not pass on the validity of the award as it
should have done; but directed the jury to find against the
plaintiff, on the ground that the action was premature, neither
of the sums awarded to be paid being due when suit was
brought.
It is clear that Bayne instituted his action because Morris
would not give the security he was required to by the award.
And on principle and authority, he had a right to sue when
Morris refused to. perform any material part of the award.
The parties to the submission chose to say to the arbitrators,
"If you order anything to be paid, by one to the other, you
must settle how the payment is to be secured." The arbitrators did decide on the very point submitted to them, and
direct the kind of security to be given, and on Morris's failure
to give the bond as required he was in default, and a cause
of action accrued. He had no right to say to Bayne, "Wait
until the instalments are due, and then I will elect whether
or not to keep the award." The provision for security was
equally valid as the order for the payment of money; and it
may be nearly as important. The right of action was as perfect, on Morris's refusal to give the penal bond, as it would
have been after the credit allowed by the award had expired.
Where goods are sold on credit, and the purchaser agrees
to give his note for them, and refuses to do so, it has been
held that an action will lie before the credit expires, and that

Dec. 1863.]

BURR v. DES MOINES Co.
Opinion of the court.

the measure of damages is the price of the goods.* The
court below, therefore, erred in charging the jury that the
right to sue was in abeyance until the time limited by the
award for the payment of the money had expired.
Inasmuch as this case is to be remanded, it is proper to
say, that in the opinion of the court, the award of the 26th
of January is inoperative and void. Arbitrators exhaust their
power when they make a fnal determination on the matters
submitted to them. They have no power after having made
an award to alter it; the authority cohiferred on them is then
at an end t
• Bayne can, if so advised, amend his pleadings and test the
correctness of the first award; which not being properly in
the case has not been considered by the court, and no opinion
is therefore given on the question of its validity.
JUDGMENT REVERSED AND VENIRE AWARDED.

BURR V. THE DES MOINES RAILROAD AND IAVIGATION
COMPANY.
1. Although this court will give judgment, on error, upon an agreed statement of facts or case stated, if it be signed by counsel and spread upon
the record at large, as part thereof, yet it will not do'so, except upon that
which is professionally and properly known as a case stated; that is to
say, upon a case which states facts simply; not one which presents,
instead of facts, evidence from which facts may or may not be inferred.
2. Legal presumption being in favor of a judgment regularly rendered,
the court, where it does not reverse, nor dismiss for want of jurisdiction, might, in regard to a case which it refused to consider on evidence
Adduced, affirm simply. However, a ease being before it, and having
been argued on its merits, where counsel on both sides erroneously
supposed that they had brought up a case stated, when in fact they
brought up nothing but a mass of evidence, and where they erroneously
supposed, also, that they would obtain an opinion and judgment of this
* 2 Parsons on Contracts, 485-6; Cort et al. v. The Ambergate Railway
Company, 6 English Law and Equity Reports, 237; Hanna v. Mills, 21
Wendell, 90; Rinehart v. Olwine, 5 Watts & Sergeant, 157; Mussen v. Price,
4 East, 147; Dutton v. Solomonson, 8 Bosanquet & Puller, 582.
t Russell on Arbitration, 185.

