UNITED STATES V.

SEPULVEDA.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

-UNITED STATES V. SEPULVEDA.
1. Previous to tbe act of Congress of June 14th, 1860, the District Courts
of the United States for California had no jurisdiction to supervise and
correct the action of the Surveyor-General of California, in surveying
claims under Mexican grants confirmed by the decrees of the Board of
Commissioners created by the act of March 3d, 1851. They possessed
no control over the execution of the decrees of the board.
2. Where Mexican grants were by metes and bounds, or where proceedings
before Mexican authorities, such as took place upon a juridical delivery
of possession, had established the boundaries, or where, from any other
source pending the proceedings for a confirmation, the boundaries were
indicated, it was proper for the board to declare them in its decrees.
3. Where a survey, made by the Surveyor-General of California, of a confirmed claim under a Mexican grant, previous to the act of June 14th,
1860, does not conform to the decree of the Board of Commissioners, the
remedy must be sought from the Commissioner of the General Land
Office before the patent issues, and not in the District Court.

By acts of Congress, of March 8d, 1851,* and of August
31st, 1852,t the District Courts of the -United States for California, were authorized, on appeal from the Board of Land
Commissioners,-which body was empowered to settle any
claim to land in California that any person might set up by virtue of any right or title derived from the Spanish or Mexican
government,-" to decide upon the validity of the said claim."
One of the statutes T proceeded to enact for "all claims finally
confirmed by the said commissioners, a patent shall issue to
the claimant upon his presenting to the land office an authentic certificate of such confirmation; and a plat or survey of
the said land duly approved by the Surveyor-General of California, whose duty," the act goes on to say, "it shall be to cause
all private claims which shall be finally confirmed, to be accurately surveyed and to furnish plats of the same." By a third
.act,-the act of June 14th, 1860,ยง-new powers were given
to the District Courts of California, and they now received
.authority to order into court "any survey" of private claims,
and to decide on it.
*

"

viii, &c., 9 Stat. at Large, 631.
xii,
u 10 Id., 99.

Stat. of March 3d, 1851, xiii.
12 Stat. at Large, 33, 2.

Dec. 1863.]

UNITED STATES V. SEPULVEDA.

10b

Statement of the case.

But this act did not in any express terms, perhaps in no
terms at all, extend to surveys made prior to its passage, except they happened to be "surveys previously made and
approved by the Surveyor-General, which had been at the
passage of the act returned into the District Court, or in rela.
tion to which proceedings were then pending for the purpose
of contesting or reforming the same;" a class of surveys
within which the present one did not come.
In1852, Sepulveda and others presented their claim to the
board of commissioners for confirmation of a grant which
had been made to them under the Mexican government. In
1853 the board adjudged the claim to be valid, and entered a
decree for its confirmation. The case having been removed
by appeal to the District Court, the attorney-general gave
notice that the appeal would not be prosecuted; and upon
motion of the district attorney, in pursuance of such notice,
the court ordered that the appeal be dismissed, and that the
claimants have leave to proceed upon the decree of the commissioners as upon a final decree. The land, the claim to
which was thus confirmed, was now surveyed by direction of
the Surveyor-General of the United States for California (as
one of the statutes already mentioned directs that in such
case it may be), and in 1859 the survey was approved by him.
In 1860, the District Court, upon the suggestion of the district
attorney that the survey did not conform to the final decree,
ordered the Surveyor-General to return into court (as the
statute of 1860 plainly gave the court authority to do by a
lhe court, on
certain class of surveys) a plat of this survey.
hearing, held that there was error in part of the survey, and
decreed that certain corrections should be made by a new survey.
From this decree the case was now brought here by appeal:
the principal question raised by the appeal being, of course,
the right of the District Court, under the act of June 14th,
1860, to order the correction of a survey made prior to the
passage of the act.
Mr. Wills, in favor of the right, relied on United States v.

UNITED STATES V. SEPULVEDA.

[Sup. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

Fossatt,* in this court, as being in point. A motion was made
in that case-one similar, in many respects, he remarked, to
the present,-to dismiss an appeal; the ground of the motion
being that the decrees of the board of commissioners relate
only to the question of the validity of the claim, and that. by
the term "validity" is meant" authenticity," "legality," and
in some cases, "interpretation," but not in any case, "location," "extent," or "boundary."
The court asks, "What
are the questions involved in the inquiry into the validity of
a. claim to land ?" and it answers thus: "It may present
questions of the genuineness and authenticity of title, and
whether the evidence is forged or fraudulent, or, it may present an inquiry into the authority of the officer to make the
grant ......
.or, it may disclose questions of the capacity
of the grantee to take, or whether the claim has been abandoned or is a subsisting title. But in addition to these questions upon the vitality of title, there may arise questions of
the extent, quantity, location,and legal operation, that are equally
essential in determining the validity of the claim." The District Court was accordingly ordered " to ascertain the external
lines of the land."
Mr. Justice FIELD delivered the opinion of the court:
The jurisdiction of the District Court to supervise and
correct the action of the Surveyor-General in this case is
not derived fiom the act of June 14th, 1860. That act
applies to surveys subsequently made, with certain exceptions, within which the present case does not fall. The
exceptions embrace only those surveys previously made and
approved by the Surveyor-General, which had been, at the
passage of the act, returned into the District Courts, or in
relation to which proceedings were then pending for the
purpose of contesting or reforming the same. The jurisdiction is asserted independent of the act of 1860, upon the
authority of the decision of this court in the case of the
United States v. -Fossatt.t In that case the decree had been
*.21 Howard, 447.

f Id., 445.

Dec. 1863.]

107

1JUNITED STATES V. SEPULVEDA.
Opinion of the court.

rendered by the District Court, and it was held that the
jurisdiction of the court extended not merely to the determination of questions relating to the genuineness and
authenticity of the grant presented, and its efficacy in transferring the title, but also to questions relating to its location
and boundaries; and that for the settlement of these latter
questions, the power of the court over the ease did not
terminate until the issue of the patent conformably to its
decree.
Previous to the act of 1860, the jurisdiction of the board
and of the District Court, on appeal, was derived entirely
from the act of March 3d, 1851, and the act of August 31st,
1852; and when the claims presented were adjudged valid
and confirmed, the duty devolved upon the Surveyor-General to cause them to be surveyed. "For all claims finally
confirmed," says the statute, "by the said commissioners,
or by the said District or Supreme Coirt, a patent shall issue
to the claimant upon his presenting to the General Land
Office an authentic certificate of such confirmation, and a
plat or survey of the said land, duly certified and approved
by the Surveyor-General of California, wkose duty it shall be
to cause allprivate claims which shall be finally confirmcd to be
accurately surveyed, and to furnish plats of the same." The
action of the surveyor in this respect was not in terms made
subject to the control of the board or court; it was only
made returnable to the Commissioner of the General Land
Office at Washington, who was invested, by the previous
legislation of Congress, with a general supervision over the
acts of all subordinate officers charged with making surveys.
Whatever jurisdiction the District Court may have possessed
to enforce the execution by the Surveyor-General of its own
decrees, it possessed no control over the execution of the
decrees of the board.
It is true that for the determination of the validity of the
claims presented some consideration must have been had of
their extent, location, and boundaries. The petitions of the
claimants must necessarily have designated, with more or
less precision, such extent and location. And where the
-

UNITED STATES V. SEPULVEDA.

[Sul). Ct

Opinion of the court.

grants were by metes and bounds, or where proceedings
before Mexican authorities, such as took place upon a ju ri.
dical delivery of possession, had established the boundaries.
or where from any other source pending the proceedings for
a confirmation the boundaries were indicated, it was proper
for the board to declare them in its decrees. And such was
the course adopted in numerous instances. But in the majority of cases the grants of the Mexican governors were for
a certain specified quantity of land lying within exterior
boundaries embracing a much larger tract, and in relation
to which no proceedings were ever taken by the former
government for its measurement and segregation. In such
cases, a confirmation of the claim was only a judicial determination of the right of the claimant to have a specific
quantity set apart to him out of a general tract. And the
duty of the board was discharged by a confirmation of the
claim in the general terms of the grant, leaving the specific
quantity designated to be surveyed and laid off by the proper
officers of the government, to whom the subject of surveys
was intrusted. With the surveys following the decrees of
the board the District Court had nothing to do.
The surveys of confirmed Mexican grants, particularly
when they are for quantities lying within exterior boundaries embracing larger tracts, involve the consideration of
various matters, not properly the subject of judicial inquiry.
In numerous instances, the location'of the quantity confirmed, whether it shall be on one or the other side of the
general tract, may depend upon the past or intended action
of the government with reference to the surplus. Portions
of the general tract may be required, and, therefore, be properly reserved fiom the location, for public purposes. The
act of 1860 creates a new jurisdiction in the court, which
cannot be assumed independent of the act, and under it
should be exercised ouly in cases coming clearly within its
language.
The decree of the District Court revising the action of the
Surveyor-General and correcting his survey, must, therefore,
Le reversed, and the court directed to dismiss the proceed-

Dec. 1863.]

THE STATE OF MINNESOTA V. BACHELDER.

109

Statement of the case.

ings for want of jurisdiction. If the'survey does not conform to the decree of the board, the remedy must be sought
from the Commissioner of the General Land Office before
the patent issues, and not in the District Court.
DECREE ACCORDINGLY.

T E

STATE OF MINNESOTA v. BACHELDERi.

1. Neither the Act of Congress of 83d arch, 1849-the organic law of the
Territory of Minnesota, which declared that.when the public lands in
that Territory shall be surveyed, certain sections, designated by numbers, shall be and "hereby are" "reserved for the purpose of being applied to schools"-nor the subsequent act of February 26th, 1857, providing for the admission of that Territory into the Union-and making
the same reservation for the same object-amounts so completely to a
"dedication," in the stricter legal sense of that word, of these sections to
school purposes, that Congress, with the assent of the Territorial legislature, could not bring them within the terms of the Pre-emption Act
of 1841, and give them to settlers who, on the faith of that act, which
had been extended in 1854 to this Territory, had settled on and improved them.
2. The decisions of the receiver and register of lands for the Territory of
Minnesota are not of conclusive efficacy. They may be inquired into
and declared inoperative by courts.
8. Error will lie to the Supreme Court of a State, under the 25th section of
the Judiciary Act, where a statute of the United States is technically
in issue in the pleadings, or is relied on in them and is decided against
by rulings asked for and refused, even though the case may have been
disposed of generally by the court on other grounds.
THIS was a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the State
of MJ innesota, and was taken under the 25th section of the
Judiciary Act of 1789, which gives a writ of error here in
any case where is drawn in question any clause of the Constitution, or of a treaty, or statute, or comissioi, held under the
United States, and the decision is againstthe right, title, privilege or exemption specially set. up or claimed by either
party under such clause of the Constitution, treaty, statute
or commission.
The case was thus: By the act of March 3d, 1849, the organic law of the Territory of Minnesota, it was enacted "that

