Dcc. 1863.]

TURRILL V. RAILROAD COMPANY.

Statement of the case.
TURRILL v. THE MICHIGAN SOUTHERN, &C., RAILROAD
COMPANY.
1. Patents for inventions are not to be treated as mere monopolies, and
therefore as odious in the law, but are to receive a liberal construction,
and under-a fair application of the rule that they be construed ut rC
magisvale qampereat. Hence, where the "claim" immediately follows the description, it may be construed in connection with the explanations contained in the specification; and be restricted accordingly.
2. Where a plaintiff, having a patent for an improved machine, his "improvement" consisting in certain pieces of mechanism. described, having
eculiar characteristics described; the pieces of mechanism being combined by means described, so as to produce a particular result described,
an admission by him that pieces of mechanism in their general nature
like his, and used for "various purposes," were older than his invention, is not an admission that these machines were the same as his; and
the fact whether they were or were not, is a question for the jury, and
not for the court.
8. The patent granted, September 9th, 1856, to Cawcod for an "improvement
in the common anvil or swedge-block, for the purpose of welding up and
re-forming the ends of railroad rails when they have exfoliated or become shattered from unequal wear, occasioned by the inequalities of
the road," &c., is a patent in which special devices are described as
combined and arranged in a particular manner, and as operating only
in a special and peculiar way for a special purpose, and to effect a special
result. It is not a claim for any kind of movable press-block, combined
and operating in any way with any kind of fixed block to accomplish
any purpose, or effect any kind of result.

THIs was a writ of error to the Circuit Court for the Dis-

trict. of lichigan. The action was trespass on the case
brought against the Michigan Southern and N~orthern Indiana Railroad to recover damages for the alleged infiingement of a patent; the defence having been want of originality in the invention.
The patent, which was granted originally to one Cawood,
dated September 9th, 1856, was for "a new and useful improvement in the common anvil or swedge-block, for the purpose of
welding q and re-forming the ENDS of railroadrailswhen they have
exfoliated or become shatteredfrom unequal wear, occasioned by
the inequalitiesof the road; six inches or so of the extreme end
of the rail being frequently destroyed, while the remainder
is perfectly sound."

TURRILL V. RAILROAD COMPANY.

[sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

The schedule ran as follows:
"I do hereby declare that the following is a full, clear, and
exact description of the construction and operation of the same,
reference being had to the annexed drawings, making a part in
this specification and giving a perspective view of the machine:

E

A

A, representing the bed-sill on which the anvil is placed; B
the anvil or swedge-block of cast iron; C C recesses, or dies
across the face, the shape of the side of the rail;'D solid block,
making a part of anvil, with its side shaped to the side of the
rail, while placed in its natural position; E a movable pressblock held down to anvil by dovetail tongues on the anvil and
grooves in the movable press-block, and operated by two eccentric cams, F, back and forth, in a longitudinal direction, to press
the rail together while forming its end, and with sufficient travel
to extricate the rail without altering its vertical position; G a
rail of the T form, in its position, between the press-blocks.
"I usually make my improved anvil and swedge-block of cast
iron, between four and five feet long and sixteen inches across
the face, with two forms or recesses C C at one cnd7 right and
left, of a form corresponding with the side of the rail. Close to
these is cast a raised block D, nearly as high as The rail, and with
its farthest edge also shaped to fit the side of the rail when it
lays across the anvil in its natural position. Next this I attach
to the face of the anvil, by dovetail tongues and grooves, or any

Dec. 18683.]

TURRILL V. IRAILROAD COMPANY.

493

Statement of the case.
other convenient manner, what I call a movable press-block E,
with a similar but reverse-shaped edge, laying opposite the other
so as to inclose the rail between the two, as in the jaws of a vice.
This block I work by two eccentric cams F on a shaft, which is
attached to the anvil by two standards H H, with bearings I ,
either cast on or bolted to the edge of the same, so that half a
turn of the crank will move the lress-block over a space a little
more than the extreme width of the rail. The mode of using
this machine is extremely simple and effective. A piece of iron
(being of a size suitable to the deficiency of the rail) having
been prepared and put in the fire, the rail being suspended by
its middle to the level of the anvil, is brought to a welding heat,
and then swung round from the fire in the space between the
two blocks, where it is, by a half turn of the crank, pinched
together by means of the cams F; the welding-piece is then laid
on the top of the rail and welded to the rail in the usual way,
and levelled up and shaped by a swedge, held by the smith, of
the form of that section which projects above the blocks, thus
accomplishing at one heat what usually requires three or more.
Should any imperfections remain, which is not usual if the first
operation is properly gone through with, they can be removed
by proper hand swedges after placing the rail in the recesses
C C for that purpose."
The claim was thus:
"I do not claim the anvil-block nor its recesses; but what I do
claim as my invention, and desire to secure by letters patent, is
the movable press-block E, having its edge formed to the side of
the rail G, in combination with another block D, with its edge
of a similar but reversed form (the movable blocks to be operated
by two cams, F, or in any other convenient manner),for thepurpose
of pressing between them a T, or otherwise shaped rail; thereby
greatly facilitating the difficult operation of welding and renewing the ends of such rails after they have been damaged, in the
manner herein described and set forth."
Having put the patent in evidence, shown an assignment
of it to the plaintiff, and otherwise made out a prima facie
case, the plaintiff rested. The defendants then introduced
models of certain machines, for the purpose of showing that

TURRILL V. RAILROAD COMPANY.

[Sup. ot.

Statement of the case.

the invention was not original. The models thus introduced
were of the following machines: 1st. Of an angle-iron machine. 2d. Of an anchor machine. 8d. Of a bayonet machine. 4th. Of a machine patented in England to one
Church.
On most or all of these, movable andfixed blocks were used;
but it remained a question to be solved by inspection,
whether the forms of these blocks and the manner in which
they were combined, and the means by which they were
moved and held, were or were not adapted to the welding
up and re-forming the ends of railroad rails when exfoliated
or shattered from unequal wear. The plaintiff, however,
admitted, his admission being according to the bill of exceptions taken and sealed in the case, exactly in these words,

"that movable press-bloc]s, in combination with faces of various
shapes, and used for various purposes, were older than the
alleged invention of Cawood, the patentee."
The evidence being closed, the plaintiff requested the
court to charge the jury "that the invention patented consisted of the movable press-block and the block D, in combination with the anvil or swedge-block B, described in said
specification."
This instruction the court refused; and
charged essentially as follows:
"In the view which the court takes of the case, there wilt be
no question offact for you to decide. According to the construction
which the court has heretofore given to the patent, and which
it now repeats, the patentee claims as his invention the movable press-block B, having its edge formed to the side of the rail
G, in combination with another block D, the movable blocks io
be operated by two cams, or in any other convenient manner.
The specification shows that the block D is fixed ind to be a
part of the anvil or swedge-block, in combination with which, as
well as with the fixed block, the movable block is to be used.
Movable press-blocks in such combinations, with faces of various
shapes, and used for various purposes, it is clearly proved and
frankly admitted, are greatly older than the alleged invention
of the patentee. The models exhibited in evidence of the
'angle-iron machine,' the ' anchor machine,' the 'bayonet ma-

Dec. 1863.]

TuRRILL v. RAILRCAD COM1PAN .
Statement of the case.

chine,' and those made from the descriptions contained in the
English patent of Church, are only some of the examples of
their use and application. The patentee therefore claims that
of which he is not the inventor. This fact is fatal to the patent,
and entitles the defendant, as matter of law; to your verdict.
"If it.be said that the claim is for the shape of the faces of
the blocks, and the uses to which they are to be applied, the
answers are:
"1st. A mere change of form is not a patentable subject.
"2d. The use of a machine or invention for a new purpose is
also not patentable.
"3d. It was the duty of the patentee to describe clearly what he
iflaims as his invention, so that it might be distinguished without
doubt or difficulty from everything else to be used in connection
with it. This has not been done. If the limited construction
here under consideration be deemed the correct one, still this
objection would be fatal, and your verdict the same. We are,
however, satisfied that the true construction is the more comprehensive one, and that patentee claims the movable block in
combination with the fixed one, and that the shape and proportions of the cheeks are only incidents and matters of detail."
The plaintiff took exceptions to the following among other
parts of the charge:
First. To so much as stated that "the movable pressblocks in such combination, with faces of various shapes,
and used for various purposes, being greatly older than the
alleged invention of the patentee, was fatal to the patent,
and entitled the defendant, as a matter of law, to the verdict
of the jury."
Second; To so much as stated that, "in the view which the
court takes of the case, there would be no question of fact
for the jury to decide."
The chief question, therefore, in error was, whether the
court had or had not decided a question of fact; ailtisb withdrawn the case improperly from the jury; and this chief
question involved, as a previous one, the question whether
the court had or had not rightly construed the patent?

49(

TURRILL V. RAILROAD COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

Air. B. -R. Curtis,for the plaintiffin error:
1. As to the construction of the patent. The claim is not one
of any kind of movable press-block, combined aud operating
in any way, with any kind of fixed block, to accomplish any
purpose. But it is a claim of such a movable press-block as
is described, and such a movable fixed block as is described,
arranged as described, and combined and operating in the
particular way described, for the purpose of effecting the
particular result indicated.
The patentee declares the sole purpose of the invention t(,
be, "welding up and re-forming the ends of railroad rails,
when they have become exfoliated or shattered;" and in
describing the manner of constructing and using the machine, he shows it to be designedfor that purpose, andfor that
purpose only. At the conclusion of the claim, he again declares the object of the machine to be "the difficult operae.
tion of welding and renewing the ends of such rails" (z.
railroad rails), "after they have been damaged."
So far as respects the result to be effected, it is clearly shown
to be, that single, special, and peculiar result of so placing
-and holding railroad rails, as greatly to facilitate the operation of renewing the ends of such rails by welding.
It is equally clear, that what the patentee intended to include in his claim was not any press-block or any fixed block,
but the press-block and the fixed block which he has described.
i. Because the patentee, at the beginning of his specification, after stating that he has invented a new and useful
improvement, says: 1" And I do hereby de'lare that the following isa full, clear, and exact description of the constructionand
operationof the same." When he comes to make his claim, it
is but just to the patentee to believe that he does not intend
to claim as his own anything which is entirely outside of
what he has described as his invention.
ii. Because the language of the claim itself is not extended
to any movable or any press-block, but is clearly limited to " the
movable press-block E" "and the block D "-thus identifving the two elements of the combination, as being such"a press-

Dec. 1863.]

TURRILL v. RAILROAD COMPANY.

497

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

block and such a raised fixed block as he had previously described, and had shown on the drawings by the designation
of those letters.
Nor is the mode of arranging, combining, and operating
these elements, which was intended to be claimed, left in
any doubt. The patentee, in the specification, declares
"that the following is a full, clear, and exact description of
the construction and operation of the same." He gives also a
clear description of his particular mode of arranging, combining, and operating the movable and the fixed block.
And when he arrives at the claim, after saying he claims
the movable block, in combination with the fixed block, he
adds, "in the manner herein described and set forth." Specifications are entitled to a liberal construction;* though there
is no necessity for any special liberality here.
Then the. blocks E and D, and the described mode of
arranging, combining, and operating them, have peculiar characteristics. The specification says of block D that it is a
"solid block, making apartof the anvil, with its side shaped
to the side of the rail, while placed in its natural position."
And again, " Close to these (i. e. close to the recesses 0 0 in
the 'improved anvil') IS CAST a raised block D, nearly as high
as the rail, and with its fqrthest edqe also shaped tofit the side of
the rail,when it lays across the anvil in its natural position."
It thus appears that this block D is a solid projecting part
of the "improved anvil;" it is cast with it; as the specification declares, it is "a solid block, making a part of the anvil."
Its outer face is shaped to correspond with one side of the
rail when laid upon the anvil; and its office is, not merely
to resist the pressure exerted on the rail by the movable
block, but to resist the force exerted upon the rail by the hammer
in weldinq, and thus preserve the shape of the rail. Three characteristics are here set forth, and each is essential to enable
the block.D to perform its appropriate functions in the combination.
The specification describes block E as a movable press.
* Winans v. Denmead, 15 Howard, 341, and cases there. cited.

VOL. 1.

32

TURRILL V. RAILROAD COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

block, held down to the anvil by dovetail tongues on the
anvil, and grooves on the movable press-block. Again.
"cNext this (i.e., next the block D), I attach to the face of the
anvil, by dovetail tongues and grooves, or in any other convenient manner, what I call a movable press-block E, with
a similar but reverse-shaped edge, lying opposite the other,
so as to inclose the rail between the two, as in the jaws of a
vice." Here, too, are three characteristics, and each is also
essential to enable the block E to enter usefully into the
improved combination.
Then as respects the described mode of combining and
working the blocks D and E. The specification declares
that the block D is cast on and makes part of the anvil; and
that the block E is held down to the anvil by dovetailed
grooves and tongues. The two blocks are thus kept in certain relations to each other by and through the anvil, which
thus forms one of- the essential means of combining and
operating them. They are connected with the anvil; and
through that connection they are enabled to operate in
combination, each performing its appropriate function, in
harmony with the other, and their combined operation
produces the specific desired result of holding and so supporting the rail on the anvil that it can be welded without
destroying its peculiar form.
But, first, the block E must be moved on the anvil; and
these means of motion must be such that the entireface of the
block E shall be kept parallel with the entire opposite face of the
block D, so as to exert the same pressure on every part of
both faces of the rail. And second, the means of movement
must be such, that when the block E has been advanced to
its forward position, so as to grasp the rail and press it against
the block D, the machinery shall hold E rigidly in position, not
allowing it to be forced at all out of its position, otherwise
the heavy blows necessary to weld the iron would destroy
the shape of the rail. And a third result is, to produce the
desired backward and forward movements and this rigidity,
by simple and sufficient means, readily worked, either by
hand. or power.

Dec. 1863.]

TURRILL V. RAILROAD COMPANY.

499

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

All these necessities are met by means of the tongues
and grooves, and the two eccentric cams, which cams, by a
half revolution of a crank, advance the entire face of the
block E parallel to the opposite face of the block D, until
the rail is grasped, thus exerting the same pressure on every
part of both faces of the rail, holding E rigidly in that position by the strength of the machine, so as perfectly to support every part of the rail against the force of the welding
hammer, and by reversing the crank half a revolution, relieving the rail and placing the blocks E and D in position
to receive another rail on the anvil.
What is the thing patented? The thing patented is described
by its title to be "a new and useful improvement in the common anvil or swedge-block, for the purpose of welding up
and re-forming the ends of railroad rails when they have exfoliated or have become shattered," &c. By the description
which the patentee declares describes "his improvement," it
appears to be an improved anvil; one of the parts of which is
the block D, having the characteristics before described;
another part of which is the block E,having the characteristics before described; and these two parts are combined and
operated in the manner described to produce the effects
indicated.
The result of the whole is, that the patentee claims to have
taken the common anvil or swedge-block, and to have improved it by his new combination and that the combination
consists in this, viz.: That he has raised on the anvil a
block D, making a part of the anvil, having a face upon it
suited to receive the side of the rail, and press equally on it
so as not only to grasp but support every part of that face of
the rail, under the blows of the welding hammer; that he
has combined with this projecting block D, which is part of
-the anvil, another block E, which is at the same time attached
to the anvil and is movable thereon; that this block E is so
attached to the anvil as to be effectually a part, of it when the
anvil is used as an anvil, to resist the welding blows*of the hammer,
and to be movable when the objects to be accomplished require it to
be moved; that while this block E is thus an effectual part of

500

TURRILL v. RAILROAD COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

the anvil, it is also an effectual and sufficient support of the
rail while undergoing the welding blows of the hammer;
and in combination with the block D, not only grasps the
rail and holds it on the anvil, but supports every part of the
two faces of the rail, and keeps them from being forced out
of shape by the blows upon the upper surface of the rail in
welding its parts.
2. It is obvious that to compare any prior machine with
this machine, it is necessary to see if any prior machine was
adapted to accomplish the same, or an analogous result, by
substantially the same means. Perhaps this is not the strictest
possible abstract statement of the true inquiry. This is a
patent for means, and viewed abstractly, the sole inquiry is,
whether the patented means are substantially the same as previously existing means. But the application of the patent
law rarely admits of such abstraction of means from ends.
A new use of an existing machine is not patentable. A modification of an existing machine, whereby it is rendered
capable of a new use, is patentable. One of these propositions is just as true as the other. Neither proposition can
be safely applied, without careful regard to the facts of the
case it is to govern. And, without going upon debatable
ground, it is safe to assert, that if there was no prior machine
which could accomplish the same, or an analogous result, by the
use of substantiallythe same means, the machine is new, under
our patent law. The practical results of inventions afford
the reasons for the patent laws. They are designed to encourage progress in the useful arts; and therefore to disregard the practical results attained by a patentee would be to
lose sight of the final cause of the system. And it is also
true, and the more one is conversant with this peculiar subject the more impressed he will be with the truth, that means
and ends are inseparably connected, aiid that it is not one
of the cases ordinarily arising under the patent law that a
new and highly useful end has been attained by the applicationof
means already.well known and before applied to an analogous end.
It is a possible case; and therefore I stand on this proposition, that if there was no machine, prior to that of the patentee,

Dec. 1863.]

TURRILL

v. RAILROAD COMPANY.

501

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

which could accomplish the same useful purpose, or one substantially analogous to it, by the use of substantially the same means,
then his patent is valid. Now, in looldng at the rulings excepted to, two well-settled rules are to be kept in mind:
i. The question whether any machine, proved, or admitted
to have existed before the patentee's invention, was substantially the same as the thing patented, was a question of fact

for thejury.
ii. The patent is primcdfacie valid, and the burden of proof
is on the defendant. Consequently the defendant was required by law to satisfy the jury, not only that the machine
he relies on did exist before the patentee's invention, but
that some one of them could accomplish the same useful
purpose, or one substantially analogous to it, by the use of
substantially the same elements, combined and arranged in
substantially the same manner as he described and claimed
in his specification.
As to the admission of the plaintff Upon such an admission
as was made, the patent cannot be declared void, as a conclusion of law, unless it is a conclusion of law that after
movable press-blocks, in combination with faces of various
shapes, had been used for various purposes, there was nofid
of invention left unoccupied; or if any such field was left, that
the claim of the patentee is not within thatfeld.
Now the first of these is manifestly not a conclusion of
law. The law cannot determine it to be impossible to make
a new combination to produce a new and useful effect because the principal elements have already been combined.
A patent for a combination is for an entirety, formed out of
the described elements, combined and arranged by the described means and operating in the described manner, to
produce the described effect. Though all the elements bad
previously been combined in some way, to produce some
effect, yet if the patentee modified one or more of the elements, to salt his new design, and combined the elements by
different means, and so as to operate in a different way, to
produce a new and useful result, it is a new combination and
the subject of a patent.

TURRILL V. RAILROAD COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

It is manifestly possible there was a field of invention
which could be occupied by a combination of the same elements used here, provided the patentee should modify those
elements to adapt them to his new use, and should combine
and operate them in a different way, so as to produce a new
and useful result; and it must be a question of fact and not of
law whether he has so done. If he has, he has made a patentable invention; and as a patent has been granted to him,
after examination by the proper public officers, it is presumed he has made an invention, until the contrary is shown.
Notwithstanding the admission, as there was a field of invention left, lie is presumed to have occupied that field, unless
upon the fair constructionof his claim it appearshe has passed out
of that field, and included something which, by his admission, appears to be old. But it has already been shown that this
claim cannot be so construed.
As to the models introduced by the defendant. Though on several of them movable and fixed blocks were used, we assert
that on inspection it is obvious that the forms of those blocks,
the manner in which they were combined, and the means by
which they were moved and held, were not adapted to the
new design of the patentee. But if all this should be denied,
still it is a question of fact whether he has done this. How is the
court to say, as matter of law, that a machine for holding and

supporting rails, under a welding hammer, is substantially
the same as a machine for making bayonets, or angle-irons,
or anchors? The patent raises a presumption that they are
not the same, and without the aid of the jury, how has this
presumption been overcome? Yet, upon the introduction
of these models, and upon the admission of the plaintiff, as
given in the reporter's statement, the court did instruct the
jury, as matter of law, that the patentwas void. The instruction
took the entire case from the jury, and no further instruction
could be given to them, except the direction, which was
given, that the defendant, as matter of law., was entitled to
their verdict.
This instruction excepted to raises the question.whether
apon the introduction by the defendants of the models men-

Dec. 1863.]

TURniLL v. IArLROAD COMPANY.

503

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

tioned in the bill of exceptions, and the admission therein
stated to be made by the plaintiff, it was a conclusion of law
that the thing patented was substantially the same as was
exhibited in either of the said models, or as was embraced in
that admission; or whether there was still matter of fact to
be passed on by the jury. If the claim is construed to be
for such a press-block as is described, and such a fixed block
as is described, combined and arranged in the manner described, to produce the effect described, no amount of evidence concerning the existence of prior machines could remove
from the jury the question whether either of these machines
included this thing claimed by the patentee. This is a distinct
and substantive question, which could arise only after the
prior existence of the other machines had been shown to and
passed on by the jury.
Nqow upon this distinct and substantive question, as there
does not appear to have been any evidence of experts, it
was for the jury, upon an examination and comparison of
the prior machines, to find whether either of them embraced
the particular combination described and claimed by the
patentee; and upon this question the burden of proof was
upon the defendant.
The admission of the plaintiff " that movable press-blocks,
in combination with faces of various shapes and used for
various purposes, were older than the alleged in-Vention,"
dispensed indeed with the production of evidence of the
prior existence of those machines; but the question of fact.
still remained, whether either of them included the particularcombination described and claimed by the patentee. It is true that if
he had claimed a machine not distinguishable from any other
having a press-block, in combination with a face of some
shape, and used for some purpose, then his admission would
have conclusively proved, not only the prior existenee of
such machines, but their identity with the thing claimed; and
therefore, though it is not very clearly expressed in any part
of the bill of exceptions, it would seem that the court did give'
'his broad construction to the clain,-holding it in effect to be a
claim of a movable and a fixed block, without regard to any

TURRILL V. RAILROAD COMPANY.

[Sup. ct.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

modification made by the patentee of those elements to fit
them for his special use, and without regard to the particular manner in which the patentee had combined them so as
from the whole to produce a new result, and without regard
to the degree of utility of that result. But it has been shown
that this is not the true construction.
The rule laid down by the court, that "it was the duty of
the patentee to describe clearly what he claims as his invention, so that it might be distinguished without doubt or difficulty from everything else," seems hardly consistent with
that liberality in the construction of claims, which has been
often announced by this court, as due to the nature of the
subject, and just to inventors, and which has been so constantly applied by the Circuit Courts in administering the
patent laws.* It is a rule which would destroy a very
considerable proportion of meritorious patents. But still it
might be applied to this specification and leave it valid. For,
when it is borne in mind that each of the blocks is carefully
described, both in words and by references to the drawings;
that the manner of combining and operating them is also
carefully and distinctly shown; that the, new and useful
result is also clearly described, and that the manner in which
each part operates in the production of that result ibpointed
out and exhibited, and that the claim is for "the press-block
E, having its edge formed to the side of the rail G, in combination with another block D, with its edge of a similar but
reversed form (the movable blocks to be operated by two
cams, or in any other convenient manner), for the purpose of
pressing between them a T or otherwise shaped rail, thereby
greatly facilitating the difficult operation of welding and renewig the ends of such rails, after they have been damaged,
in the manner herein described and setforth ;" it would be doing
violence to the clearly expressed intention of the patentee to
hold that he has made a broad claim of press-blocks, and
faces however formed, combined in any way, for any use.
; Corning v. Burden, 15 Howard, 269; 'Winans v. Denmead, 16 Id., 341.
%ndcases there cited.

Dec. 1863.]

TURRILL

v.

RAILROAD

COMPANY.

505

Argument for the defendant in error.

Mr. Keller, contra:
1. The construction of the claim given by the court below
is the true construction of the patent. The prayer to charge,
when taken in connection with the charge, leaves no doubt
as to the construction which was given to the claim of the
patent by the court below. The court was requested to
charge that "the invention patented consisted of the movable press-block, and the block D, in combination with the
anvil or swedge-block B, described in said specification."
The court refused so to charge, but did charge that tho
patentee claimed as his invention the" combination of the
fixed with the movable block or jaw, operated by two cams,
or in any other convenient manner. And although the
.ourt, in the charge, did say that the specification shows that
the stationary block or jaw is to be a part of the anvil or
wedge-bloek, and to be used in that combination, nevertheless it is clear that the court refused to consider the anvil as
)ne of the elements of the combination claimed by the pa:entee. The court below also clearly excludes, from the
nvention claimed, the shape and proportions of the jaws,
iolding that these were merely incidental to the use to which
;he machine was applied.
Now this construction is the true construction, because:
I. The Patent Act of 1836 (ยง 6) requires the patentee to
rive not only a full, clear, and exact description of the manier of making, constructing, and using his invention, but
hat he shall also "particularly specify and point out the
)art, improvement, or combination which he claims as his
nvention."
This provision is based on the presumption that in giving
full, clear, and exact description of the manner of making
ud constructing a machine, the applicant, unavoidably, will
.e required to describe many things well known in the arts
.nor to his invention; hence the necessity for the other proision of the same section; which requires that out of all
7hich he has thus described he shall specify and point out
he part, improvement, or combination which he claims as

TURRILL V. RAILROAD COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the defendant in error.

his invention. In view of this provision the court could not
include in the claim of a combination any element not named
in the claim, however clearly such part may be presented
in that portion of the specification which describes the man
ner of making, constructing, and using the machine.
ii. The elements, which constitute the combination claimed
by the patentee, are not only in terms the movable press.
block, with its edge formed to the side of the rail, and the
stationary block, with its edge of a similar but reversed
form; but the better to exclude all other things from the
combination intended to be claimed, the patentee has stated
that the things so claimed, in combination are "for the purpose of pressing between them a T or otherwise-shaped rail."
And although the machine, as an entirety, is stated to be for
the general purpose of welding up and re-forming the ends
of railroad rails, such general purpose will not justify the
introduction of the anvil as one of the elements in the combination claimed, in the absence of all mention of the anvil
in the claim, because the purpose specified in the claim, and
the office assigned to the combination claimed, is that of
pressing or griping the rail, and the anvil performs no office
-subserves no duty-in pressing the rail, and it is the duty
specified in the claim, and not the use for which the entire
machine is designed, which is to control in the construction
of the claim.
III. That the patentee did not intend to include the anvil
as one of the elements of the combination claimed, appears
in the fact that, in the descriptive part of the specification,
he designates the several parts by letters of reference to the
drawings,-the anvil by the letter B, the stationary pressblock by the letter D, and the movable press-block by the
letter E-and that in specifying the combination which he
claims as his invention, he designates the parts by the same
letters, and the letter B does not appear in the claim.
iv. As the movable and the stationary press-blocks are
specified in the claim in terms indicated by letters of reference, and perform the whole duty for which the combina.
Lon is claimed, and as the anvil is not specified in terms in

Dec. 1863.]

TuRRILL V. RAILROAD COMPAIY.

507

Argument for the defendant in error.

the claim, nor indicated by letter of reference, and can perform no duty in the purpose for which the combination is
claimed, by no rule of construction can the anvil be introduced as one of the elements of the combination claimed.
v. The anvil or swedge-block, described and represented
in the patent, could not be claimed in combination with the
press-blocks, because it has no mechanical relation to, or
dependence upon them. The anvil or swedge-block is indicated in the drawings by the letter B. It has recesses or
dies formed in its upper face, in shape the reverse of the
sides of the rail, so that when a rail is out of shape it can be
laid in either of these recesses or dies, and hammered into
shape. Now, in the specification, after describing the manner in which the ends of a rail are to be re-formed when
griped between the stationary and the movable press-blocks,
the patentoe says: "Should any imperfections remain, which
is not usual if the first operation is properly gone through
with, they" (the imperfections) "can be removed by proper
hand swedges, after placing the rail in the recesses C 0 for
that purpose." From this it will be seen that the anvil or
swedge-block B, with its recesses C 0, has no mechanical
combination with, or relation to the press-blocks. It makes
no part of an organized mechanism. It is simply a swedgeblock or anvil of the usual construction, placed in convenient
proximity to the press-blocks, so that if it should become
necessary to swedge the sides of the rail it can be done conveniently. One might as well say that an improvement on
an ordinary vice could be claimed in combination with an
ordinary blacksmith's anvil, if used in the same shop and
placed at a convenient distance, so that a piece of iron, after
being forged, could be conveniently put in the vice to be
filed.
2. The court below, said rightly that, in the view which it
took of the case, "there could be no question of fact for the
jury to decide."
No exception was taken to that part of the charge in which
the court below stated that "movable press-blocks in such
combinations, with faces of various shapes, and used for

TURRILL V. RAILROAD COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

various purposes, it is clearly proved and frankly admitted, are
greatly older than the alleged invention of the patentee."
In view of the ruling of the court on the questions of law,
there was but one material question of fact in the case, and
that was whether, prior to the alleged invention by the patentee, similar combinations of press-blocks with faces of the
required shapes were known and used in the United States,
or patented or described in any printed publication in this or
any foreign country. And that fact having been conceded
by the plaintiffs, the case was left to stand alone on questions
of law. It was, therefore, the duty of the court to direct
the jury to render a verdict for the defendant.*
Afr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the
Court.
I. Patentee describes his invention as a new and useful improvement in the common anvil or swedge-block, for the
purpose of welding up and re-forming the ends of railroad
rails, when they have exfoliated or become shattered from
unequal wear, occasioned by the inequalities of the road.
Having made out a primd facie case, the plaintiffs rested,
and the defendants then introduced certain models of ma.
chines, for the purpose of showing that the patentee was
not the original and first inventor of his improvement.
Models of machines so introduced were the following, to
wit: Mrst, a model of an angle-iron machine. Secondly, a
model of an anchor machine. Thirdly, a model of a bayonet
machine. Fourttdy, they also introduced a copy of an English patent granted to one Church, with the specifications
and drawings annexed, and the statement in the bill of
exceptions, in regard to all those machines, is that they were
known prior to the invention of the patentee in this case.
Bill of exceptions also states, and it is important to observe
the fact, that in addition thereto the defendants also adduced
evidence to show, and that it was admitted by the plaintiffs,
*
Arks v. Ross, 11 Howard, 373; Morgan v. Seaward, Webster's Patent
tis-, 170.

Dec. 1863.]

TURRILL V. RAILROAD COMPANY.

509

Opinion of the court.

that movable press-blocks, in combination with faces of
various shapes and used for various purposes, were older
than the alleged invention of patentee. Other evidence, it
is stated in the bill of exceptions, was also introduced by the
defendants, for the purpose of showing that the patentee was
not the original and first inventor of the machine for which
he obtained the patent; but the evidence is not given, and
it is not perceived that the statement is of any importance
at the present time.
11. Charge of the court is given entire in the record; but
in the view taken of the case, it will only be necessary to
refer to so much of it as relates to the construction of the
patent, and the effect of the admission made by the plaintiffs.- Construction of the patent, as given by the court, was
that the patentee claimed as his invention the movable pressblock, having its edge formed to the side of the rail in combination with the block I, the movable blocks to be operated
by-two cams, or in any other convenient manner. "Specification shows," said the court, "that the block IDis fixed and
is a part of the anvil or swedge-block, in combination with
which, as well as with the fixed block, the movable block is
to be used." Such is the substance of the charge so far .as
respects the construction of the patent; but the court added,
in the same connection, that "movable press-blocks in such
combination, with faces of various shapes and used for various purposes, it is clearly proved and frankly admitted, are
greatly older than the alleged invention of the patentee ;"
and in support of that proposition of fact, the presiding justice referred to the several models given in evidence by the
defendants, and to the description contained in the English
patent, as examples of their use and application. Following those references, and in connection therewith, the court
told the jury that "the patentee, therefore, claims that of
which he is not the inventor, and this fact is fatal to the
patent, and entitles the defendants, as matter of law, to
your verdict." Exceptions were seasonably and duly taken
to all that portion of the charge of the court. Principal
complaint against the charge is that the court decided a

TuRRiLL v. I"ALROAD COMPANY.

[Sup.

Ct

Opinion of the court.

question of fact which belonged to the jury, and which

should have been submitted to their determination under
proper instructions.
IIL Whether that complaint is well founded or not depends very much, if not entirely, upon the construction to
be given to the patent. Patents for inventions are not to be
treated as mere monopolies, and, therefore, odious in the
eyes of the law; but they are to receive a liberal construction, and under the fair application of the rule, ut res magis
valeat quampereat, are, if practicable, to be so interpreted as
to uphold and not to destroy the right of the inventor.
(1_?Stzn v. Goodwin, 3 Sum. 0. C. R., 520.)
Claim of the patentee in this case is not for the anvilblock nor its recesses, as is expressly-stated by him in his
specification. On the contrary, what he claims as his invention is the movable press-block, having its edge formed to
the rail, in combination with another block, which is described as a fixed block, and whose edge is of a similar but
reversed form, for the purpose of pressing between them the
railroad rail. Shape of the rail is immaterial, except that
the inner face or edge of the respective, blocks must be
so made and formed as to fit the respective sides of the rail
to be repaired. Statement of the claim is, that the movable
blocks may be operated by two cams, or in any other convenient manner, and the representation is that the machine
will greatly facilitate the operation of welding and renewing
the ends of such rails, after they have been damaged in the
manner herein described and set forth. Taking the description of the machine as set forth in the specification, it consists of the following elements: First, a bed-sill, on which
the anvil is placed. Secondly, the anvil or swedge-block of
east iron, usually four or five feet long, and sixteen inches
across the face. Thirdly, a solid block cast with and making
a part of the anvil, nearly as high as the rail when it is laid
across the anvil in its usual position. Fourthly, a movable
press-block, attached to the face of the anvil by dovetailed
tongues and grooves, having an inner edge or face shaped to
fit the opposite side of the rail so as to inclose the rail between

Dec. 1863.]

TURRILL V. RAILROAD COMPANY.

511

Opinion of the court.

the two, as in the jaws of a vice. Press-block, as before remarked, is worked by two eccentric cams, which serve to
advance the press-block upon its dovetailed tongues and
grooves parallel to the opposite face of the fixed block.
When the press-block has been thus advanced so far as to
bring its face in contact with one side of the rail, the cams
and the tongues and grooves hold the press-block in position, and the rail is firmly grasped between the inner faces
of the two blocks. Inventor then goes on to describe the
mode of using the machine, which he says is extremely
simple and effective, and sufficient has already been remarked to show that his representation is correct, without
reproducing the description. Immediately following that
description, is the claim of the patent, as heretofore given,
which need not be repeated.
IV. Evidently, the claim must be construed in connection
with the explanations contained in the specification, and
when viewed in that light, it is quite clear that it should
receive a more restricted construction than was given to it in
the charge of the court. Special devices are described as
combined and arranged in a particular manner, and operate
only in a special and peculiar way for a special purpose, and
to effect a special result. Obviously, it is not a claim for
any kind of movable press-block, combined and operating
in any way with any kind of fixed block, to accomplish any
purpose or effect any kind of result. Giving that construction to the claim, then indeed it would be true that the
plaintiffs, when they admitted that movable press-blocks, in
combination with .faces of various shapes and used for various purposes, were older than the invention of the patentee,
did admit away their whole case, and, if viewed in that light,
would be equally true that there was no question of fact to
be submitted to the jury. But such is not the true construction of the patent, as is obvious from every one of the explanations of the specification. Invention was of such a movable
press-block as is described, having its edge formed to the side
of the rail in combination with such other block as is described, with its edge of similar but reversed form arranged

512

[Sup. Ct

ROOSEVELT V. MEYE.R.
Statement of the case.

as described, and combined and operating in the particular
way described, for the special purpose of effecting the described result.
'When viewed in that light, it is equally clear that the
charge of the court was erroneous, because there was an
important question of fact which should have been left to
the jury, whether the machines introduced by the defendants or any of them, or any of the prior movable pressblocks, as is shown in the admission, were substantially the
same as the machine of the patentee. American authorities,
at least, hold that every such question is one for the jury,
and upon that ground alone we have come to the conclusion
that the judgment in this case must be reversed.
Judgment of the Circuit Court is accordingly reversed,
with costs, and the cause remanded with direction to issue a
NEw

VENIRE.

ROOSEVELT V. MEYER.
Where a certificate, coming up with the record from the highest court of
law or equity of a State, certifies only that on the "hearing" of the case
a party "relied upoa" such and such provisions of the Constitution of the
United States, "insisting" that the effect was to render an act of Congress void, as unconstitutional, which said claim, the record went on to
say, "was overruled and disallowed by this court," and the record itself
shows nothing except that the statute which it was argued contravened
these provisions, was drawn in question, and that the decision was in
favor of the statute. and of the rights set up by the party relying on it;
no writ of error lies from this court to such highest State court under
the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act of 1789.

Mi. RoELKER, of counsel for the defendant in error in this
case, moved the court to dismiss the writ of error for want
of jurisdiction: the case being thus:
The Judiciary 'Act of 1789 (ยง 25) provides that this court
may review the judgment of the highest court of a State in
cases "where is drawn in question the construction of any
clause of the Constitution, or of a . . statute of . . the United

