"WOODS v. FREEMJANq.

[Sup. C

Statement of the case.

stock in railroad enterprises? Is this the language in which
an act of such importance, and affecting so many persons
and so much property, would be framed? Yet it is by such
latitudinary construction of statutes as this that it is attempted
to fasten upon owners of property, who never assented to the
contract, a debt of twenty millions of dollars, involving a
ruin only equalled in this country by that visited upon the
guilty participants in the current rebellion.

WOODS v. FREEMAN.
A judgment in Illinois for taxes is fatally defective if it does not in terms
or by some mark indicating money, such as $ or cls., show the amount,
in money, of the tax for which it was rendered. Numerals merely,
that is to say, numerals without some mark indicating that they stand
for money, are insufficient.

sued Woods in ejectment, in the Circuit Court
for the Northern District of Illinois, to recover possession of
the southwest quarter of section three (8) of township eight
(8) north of range three (3) west of the fourth principal
meridian, situated in Warren County, in that State. At the
trial, Freeman showed title in himself by a regular chain of
conveyances from the United States. Woods, to defeat this
title, insisted that the tract of land had been regularly sold
for the non-payment of taxes for the year 1852, and the validity of the sale was the main question in the case.
By the statute law of Illinois, the collector of taxes reports
to the proper court a list of lands on which the taxes remain
due and unpaid, and if no good reason is interposed a judgment is entered on his assessment and return, in the name
of the State of Illinois, against the several tracts of land for
the sum annexed to each, being the amount of taxes, interest, and costs due thereon, and a precept to sell is ordered.
The following illustration of the collector's assessment and
return will show the nature of the document on which judgment is in these cases given; though, in the present case,
FREEMAN

Dec.1863.]

"WOODS v. FREEMtAN.
Opinion of the court.

the reader will observe that neither in the column meant to
denote the "total" of the tax, nor in others where money is
meant to be indicated, is the word "dollars" or "cents"
given, nor any character, such as $ or ets., or abbreviation
representing them. And, that while a conjecture or infer.
ence may be made that the figures indicate dollars or cents,
the conclusion rests finally on conjecture or inference only.
8N. 8W.
4

Patentees name.

Part of section.

~

'

.2

to

Erastus Brown,.

W. S. N. E.

3

EjishaSibree,..

S. W.

3

89"
160

02

,

ISO

1 09

72

1 08

. .

2 89

320

1 93

1 28

1 92

. .

5 13

The tract of land in controversy bad been sold for taxes,
and a deed made to one Harding, through whom Woods
claimed. To sustain the deed, Woods offered in evidence
the record of the judgment of the county court of Warren
County against the tract of land for the unpaid taxes of 1852,
the same being in form as above. On the objection of Freeman, the court excluded the evidence, and Woods excepted.
Verdict and judgment having been given for Freeman, the
correctness of the refusal to admit the evidence was the chief
point on error here.
Jr. $lferrinan,for the defendant in error:
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court,
and after stating facts, proceeded thus:
There was no "mark, word, or character" on the record of
thejudgment to indicate, the amount of taxes for which it was
rendered against the land, which was undoubtedly the rca.
son why the court rejected the evidence.
In the construction of local statutes affecting the titles to
real estate, this court recognizes the binding force of the interpretation given by the highest judicial tribunal of a State.

400

UNITED STATES V. MORENO.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

This question has been expressly decided by the Supreme
Court of flhinois. That court has held,* "that a judgment for
taxes is fatally defective which fails to show the amount of
tax for which it was rendered, and that the use of numerals,
without some mark indicating for what they stand, is insufficient." The judgment was therefore void, and the court was
right in excluding the evidence from the jury.
Judgment is
AFFIRMED WITH COSTS.

UNITED STATES V.

MORENO.

1. Where there are no subscribing witnesses to a Mexican grant in coloni-

zation, the signature of the governor who executed the grant, and of
the secretary who attested it, may be proved by any one acquainted
with their handwriting. Such evidence is in no sense secondary. United
States v. Auguisola (ante, p. 352), approved.
2. The cession of California to the United States did not impair the rights
of private property. These rights were consecrated by the law of nations, and protected by the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo. The act of
March 3d, 1851, to ascertain and settle private land claims in the State
of California, was passed to assure to the inhabitants of the ceded territory the benefit of the rights thus secured to them. It recognizes
both legal and equitable rights, and should be administered in a liberal
spirit.

ON an appeal from the decree of the District Court of the
United States for the Southern District of California, the
record disclosed the following facts: On the 5th of April,
1845, Moreno submitted to Pio Pico, then Governor of the
Department of California, a petition, wherein he set forth
that he had "denounced, in due form, a square league of land
situate between Temecula and the Lagoon called Santa Bosa, to
which, after preirious judicial investigation," he prayed "to
be awarded the respective title, on the ground that it is absolutely vacant and without any availableness." The governor
ordered the petition " to be sent for the report of" the proLawrence v. Fast, 20 Illinois, 340; Lane v. Bommelmann, 21 Id., 147.

