BALDWIN V. BANK OF NEWBURY.

[Sup. Ot

Statement of the case.

Pet., 75. But it is unnecessary to pursue the inquiry, as the
decisions of this court are directly the other way; and so are
most of the decisions of the State courts. Donnelly v. Cbrbett, 3 Seld., 500; Poe v. Duck, 5 Md., 1; Anderson v. Wheeler,
25 Conn., 607 ; Felch v. Bugbee et al., 48 Me., 9; Dcrerritv.
Exchange Bank, 10 Law Rep. (N. S.), 606; Woodhull v. Wagner, Bald., C. C., 800.
Insolvent laws of one State cannot discharge the contracts
of citizens of other States, because they have no extra-territorial operation, and consequently the tribunal sitting under
them, unless in cases where a citizen of such other State
voluntarily becomes a party to the proceeding, has no jurisdiction in the case. Legal notice cannot be given, and consequently there can be no obligation to appear, and of course
there can be no legal default. The judgment of the Circuit
Court is therefore affirmed with costs.
JUDGMENT ACCORDINGLY.

BALDWIN

v.

BANK OF NEWBURY.

The case of Baldwin v. Hale (ante,p. 223) affirmed.
Where negotiable paper is drawn to a person by name, with addition of
"Cashier" to his name, but with no designation of the particular bank
of which he was cashier, parol evidence is allowable to show that he
was the cashier of a bank which is plaintiff in the suit, and that in
taking the paper he was acting as cashier and agent of that corporation.

THE Bank of Newbury, a corporation, at the time of the
suit and now, established in Vermont, brought an action of
assumpsit in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Massachusetts district against Baldwin, upon a promissory
note made by him in Massachusetts, where he resided. The
following is a copy of the note. It was unindorsed:
$3500.
BOSTON, Dec. 9,1853.
Five months after date I promise to pay to the order of 0. C.Hale, Esq.,
Cashier, Thirty-five hundred dollars, payable at either bank in Boston, value
received.
J. W. BALLsIN.

Dec. 1863.]

BALDWIN v. BANK OF NEWBURY.

235

Statement of the case.

After making the note, and pursuant to laws of Massachusetts existing prior to making it, Baldwin obtained a certificate of discharge from his debts, embracing by its terms
all contracts to be performed within the State of Massachusetts after the passage of said laws. The Bank-of N~ewbury
took no part in these proceedings in insolvency in Massachusetts by which Baldwin obtained his discharge. This
discharge he pleaded in bar of the action on this note.
He also pleaded the general issue, and under that plea objected that the note declared on was not competent evidence
to support the declaration, and did not sustain the cause of
action therein set forth. On this point the case, as agreed
on by the parties, was as follows, viz. :
"It is agreed that 0. 0. Hale was in fact the Cashier of the
.Bank of Newbury at the time of the making of said note, and
in case the court would admit such evidence after objection
by the defendant, and not otherwise, and not waiving his objection to the same as incompetent, the defendant admits
that said Hale mentioned in said note, in taking said note
was acting as the cashier of and agent for the plaintiff corporation. If upon the foregoing facts the plaintiff has made
out a legal cause of action in his favor, and the defendant's
discharge, &c., is ineffectual as a bar of said action, the defendant is to be defaulted; otherwise the plaintiff is to become nonsuit."
Two points thus arose and were argued:
1. Whether the contract, being by a citizen of Massachusetts, was discharged by the proceedings in Massachusetts,
even though to be performed in that State,-Hale being a
citizen, and the Bank of Newbury being a corporation of
Vernmont, a different State.
2. Whether, if this discharge was not a bar, parol evidence
was admissible to show that " 0. 0. Hale, Esq.," described
in the note as " Cashier," simply, was cashier of the Bank of
.Arewbury, the plaintiff in the suit, and that in taking the note,
he acted as the cashier and agent of the corporation.
The court below ruled that the discharge pleaded was no
bar, and also that the plaintiff had made out a cause of

BALDWIN V. BANK OF NEWBURY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the debtor.

action, and gave judgment accordingly.
same two questions arose.

On error here the

Mr. F. A. Brooks, for Baldwin, tMe plaintiffin error.
1. The first point will be determined by whatever decision
is given in Baldwin v. Hale, ante, p. 223, and need not be
discussed.
2. The second point has been precisely adjudged in the
Circuit Court of the United States for Vermont, in Bank of the
United States v. Lyman.* The note in that case was payable
to "Samuel Jaudon, Esq., cashier, or order." Jaudon was
notoriously cashier of that bank, which was there plaintiff.
The debt, no one doubted, was due to the bank and was not
due to Jaudon. The case, completely, was our case. The
Bank of the United States, having the same view of the law
that the present plaintiff has, sued on the note without
Jaudon's indorsement. The court decided that suit could
not be so maintained. Prentiss, J., examined the subject on
principle and on authority, both English and American. He
begins with Evans v. (ramlington, so far back as Carthew,t
affirmed in the Exchequer Chamber, 2 Ventris, 307. He
says that the observations of Buller, J., in Fenn v. Harrison,t
show, very plainly, that in his opinion no person could be
considered as a party to a bill unless his name was upon it,
and cites an observation of L 9 rd Abinger,ยง who, speaking
of a case before him of "written simple agreements," says
that "cases of bills of exchange are quite different in principle from those that ought to gover'n this case." His honor,
after affirming that the doctrine enforced by him, he "may
safely say," prevails in general in this country, though there
may have been now and then an occasional departure from
it, and that there can be "little doubt," when we refer to
Van Ness v. Forrest (8 Cranch, 30), "how the rule of law
cn the subject is undefstood in the national court," thus surms
r p the subject:
"Upon the whole, it appears to me, that the true rule of law,
1 3 Term, 757.
t Page 5.
x- 20 Vermont, 676.
B]ckham v. Drake, 0 Meeson & Welsby, 78.

Dec. 1863.]

BALDWIN V. Biix oF NEWBURY.

237

Argument for the debtor.

as deducible from the adjudged cases, American as well as English, is that no person, although in fact a principal or partner,
can sue or be sued upon a bill or negotiable note, unless he appear upon its face to be a party to it. A promissory note,
according to the expression of very great judges, partakes in
some measure of the nature of a specialty, importing a consideration, and creating a debt or duty by its own proper force.
Being assignable, and passing by mere indorsement, it is necessary that the parties to it should appear, and be known, by bare
inspection of the writing; for it is on the credit of the names.
appearing upon it that it obtains circulation. It is for these
qualities, and on these considerations, that it is distinguished
from written, simple contracts in general, and made subject to
a different rule.
"The note in question here is a perfect instrument, without
ambiguity in form or purpose, and must have operation and
effect according to the terms in which it is expressed. It is
made payable to ' Samuel Jaudon,Esquire,cashier,or order.' The
promise, therefore, is to pay him, or the person to whom he shall
order it to be paid; and it would be repugnant to the terms of
the instrument to allow the Bank of the United States, or any
one else, without his order, to demand and enforce payment of
it by suit. The bank is not named in the note at all, either as
principal or otherwise; nor can it be inferred, from anything
contained in the note, that it was made even in trust or for the
benefit of the bank, or that the bank has any interest whatever
in it. To admit parol evidence, to show that the bank is the real
principal, and hold that it may sue upon the note as such, would
be to subject negotiable paper to the very uncertainty the law
intended to avoid. It would be putting promissory notes upon
the footing of other written simple contracts, and prostrate
entirely the distinction, which sound policy, as well as the nature
and purpose of negotiable securities, demands should be kept up
between the two classes of cases."
The case in the national court* to which Prentiss, J., refers,
strongly supports, by implication, our view. There a note
was executed to Jostph Forrest, President of the Commercial
Company, for merchandise belonging to and sold as the pro* Van Ness v. Forrest, 8

Cranch, 80.

238

BALDWIN V. BANK OF NEWBURY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the debtor.

perty of the company. On the question, whether an action
could be maintained upon the note in the name of Forrest,
Marshall, C. J., said:
"The suit is instituted on a promissory note given, not to the
company, but to Joseph Forrest, president of the company. Although the original cause of action does not merge in this note,
yet a suit is clearly maintainable on the note itself. Such suit
can be brought only in- the name of Joseph Forrest. It can no
more be brought in the name of the company, than if it had been given
to a person not a member, for the benefit of the company. The legal
title is in Joseph Forrest, who recovers the money in his own
name, as a trustee for the company."

The Commercial Bank v. French (21 Pickering, 486), whether decided rightly or the reverse of rightly, is not at essential variance with the doctrine we maintain; for in that
case the note was drawn to no person by name. It was to
the Cashier of the Commercial Bank, Boston, or his order.
The name of the cashier was not in the note, while that of
the bank was so, prominently. It was almost the same thing
as if made to the bank by some loose form of name. On the
face of the note it belonged to the Commercial Bank. Here
no bank at all is specified. An individual is specified by name,
and the name is not that of the party suing. "Cashier"
is mere surplusage. Neither was the case in accordande with
Massachusetts precedents. In one case in that State,* it
was decided that a note payable to the treasurer of a parish
might be sued in the name of the treasurer. And in another case in the same State,t that a note indorsed to S. S.
Fairfield, Cashier, might be sustained in the name of Fairield. It istrue that these cases do not directly decide that
action might not have been brought also in the name of the
corporation which the. plaintiffs represented; and it is by
this suggestion that the judge who gives the opinion in The
CommercialBank v. French,evades their force. But with what
regard to law does he evade it, if Marshall, C. J., be right
*Fisher v. Ellis, 3 Pickering, 381.

t 16 Id., 881.

Dec. 1863.]

BALDWIN v. BANK OF NEWBURY.

239

Opinion of the court.

in his declaration, in Van Ness v. Forrest, that suit on such
note can be brought "only" in the name of the person to
whom it was given, and "can no more be brought in the
name of the company than if it had been given to a person
not a member?"
Mr. Hrutchins, contra.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court:
1. Two questions are presented for decision, but the first
is the same as that just decided in the preceding case, and
for the reasons there given must be determined in the same
way. Contrary to what was held in the case of Scribner et
al. v. Fisher, 2 Gray, 48, we hold that the certificate of discharge in the case was no bar to the action, because the debt.
was due to a citizen of another State. Such was the rule
laid down in Ogden v. Saunders, 12 Wheaton, 279; and we
also hold that the circumstance that the contract was to be
performed in the State where the discharge was obtained
does not take the case out of the operation of that rule.
2. Agreed statement also shows that 0. 0. Hale was in
fact the cashier of the Bank of Newbury at the time the defendant executed the note, but the defendant insists, as he
insisted in the court below, that parol evidence was not admissible to prove that the person therein named as payee in
taking the note acted as cashier and agent of the corporation.
He admits that the plaintiff can prove those facts, if admissible, but denies that parol evidence is admissible for that purpose, which is the principal question on this branch of the
case. Counsel very properly admit that such evidence would
be admissible in suits upon ordinary simple contracts, but
the argumel is that a different rule prevails where the suit
is upon a promissory note or bill of exchange. Suit in such
cases, it is said, can only be maintained in the name of the
person therein named as payee, and consequently that the
plaintiff bank cannot be treated as such without explanatory
evidence, and that parol evidence is not admissible to furnish
.any such explanation. Suppose the r'ile were so, still it could

BALDWIN V. BANK oF NEWBURY.

[[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

not benefit the defendant in this case, because it is unconditionally admitted that 0. C. Hale was in fact cashier of the
plaintiff bank at the time of the making of the said note.
Undeniably the note must be considered in connection with'
that admitted fact, and when so considered it brings the case
directly within the rule laid down in the case of Commercial
Bank v. French, 21 Pickering, 486, and the several cases there
cited upon the same subject. In that case the court say the
principle is that the promise should be understood according
to the intention of the parties. If in truth it be an undertaking to the corporation whether a right or a wrong name
is inserted, or whether the name of the corporation or some
of its officers be used, it should be declared on and treated
as a promise to the corporation, and as a general rule it may
be said that where enough appears to show that the parties
intended to execute the instrument in the name of the principal, the form of the words is immaterial, because as between the original parties their intention should govern.
But it is not necessary to place the decision upon that ground
alone, as we are all of the opinion that even if the facts set
forth in the agreed statement are all to be regarded merely
as an offer of proof, subject to the objections of the defendant, still the case must be decided in the same way. Regarded in that point of view, the question then is whether
the evidence offered was admissible. Promise, as appears
by the terms of the note, was to 0. C. Hale, cashier, and the
question is, whether parol evidence is admissible to show
that he was cashier of the plaintiff bank, and that in taking
the note he acted as the cashier and agent of the corporation.
Contract of the parties shows that he was cashier, and that
the promise was to him in that character. Banking corporations necessarily act by some agent, and it is a matter of
common knowledge that such institutions usually have an
officer known as their cashier. In general he is the officer
who superintends the books and transactions of the bank
under the orders of the directors.
His acts within the sphere of his duty are in behalf of the
bank, and to that extent he is the agent of the corporation.

Dee. 1863.]

BALDWIN V. BANIK OF NEWBURY.

241

Opinion of the court.

Viewed in the light of these well-known facts, it is clear that
evidence may be received to show that a note given to the
cashier of a bank was intended as a promise to the corporation, and that such evidence has no tendency whatever to
contradict the terms of the instrument. Where a check was
drawn by a person who was a cashier of an incorporated
bank, and -it
appeared doubtful upon the face of the instrument whether it was an official or a private act, this court
held, in the case of the .Mecanics'Bank v. the Bank of Columbia, 5 Wheat., 826, that parol evidence was admissible to
show that it was an official act. Signature of the promissor
in that case had nothing appended to it to show that he had
acted in an official character, and yet it was unhesitatingly
held that parol evidence was admissible to show the real
character of the transaction. Opinion in that case was given
by Mr. Justice Johnson, and in disposing of the case lie said,
that it is by no means true, as was contended in argument,
that the acts of agents derive their validity from professing
on the face of them to have been done in the exercise of
their agency. Rules of form, in certain cases, have been
prescribed by law, and where that is so those rules must in
general be followed, but in the diversified duties of a gei.eral
agent, the liability of the principal depends upou the fact
that the act was done in the exercise and within the limits
of the powers delegated, and those powers, says the learned
judge, are necessarily inquirable into by the court and jury,
Maker of the note in that case had signed his name without
any addition to indicate his agency, which makes the case a
stronger one than the one under consideration. Same rule
as applied to ordinary simple contracts has since that time
been fully adopted by this court. Examples of the kind are
to be found in the case of the New Jersey Steam Navigation
aimpany v..
Tle Oferchants' Bank, 6 How., 381, and in the
more recent case of Ford v. Williams, 21 How., 289, where
the opinion was given by Mr. Justice Grier. In the latter
case it is said that the contract of the agent is the contract
of the principal, and he may sue or be sued thereon, though
not named therein. Parol proof may be admitted to show
VOL. 1.

16

BALDWIN V. BANK OF NEWBUR .

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the real nature of the transaction, and it is there held 'hat
the admission of such proof does not contradict the instrument, but only explains the transaction.
Such evidence, says Baron Park, in Higgins v. Senior, 8
Mee. &Wels., .844, does not deny that the contract binds
those whom on its face it purports to-bind, but shows that it
also binds another by reason that the act of the agent is the
act of the principal. Argument for the defendant is, that
the doctrine of those cases can have no application to the
present case, because the suit is founded upon a promissory
note, but the distinctions taken we think cannot be sustained
under the state of facts disclosed in the agreed statement.
Mr. Parsons says, if a bill or note is made payable to A. B.,
cashier, without any other designation, there is authority for
saying that an action may be maintained upon it, either by
the person therein named as payee or by the bank of which
he is cashier, if the paper was actually made and received
on account of the bank; and the authorities cited by the
author fully sustain the position. Fairfieldv.Adams, 16 Pick.,
381; Shaw v. Stone, 1 Cush., 254; Barnaby v. Newcombe, 9
Cush., 46; Wright v. Boyd, 3 Barb., S. C., 523. Among the
cases cited by that author to show that the suit may be maintained by the bank, is that of the Watervliet Bank v. White,
1 Den., 608, which deserves to be specially considered. Note
in that case was indorsed to R. Olcott, Esq., cashier, or order,
and the suit was brought in the name of the plaintiff bank,
of which the indorsee was the cashier. Objection was made
that the suit could not be maintained in the name of the
bank, but it appearing that the indorsement was really made
for the benefit of the corporation, the court overruled the
objection, and gave judgment for the plaintiff Bay/ley v.
Onondaga Ins. Co., 6 Hill, 476. Suggestion was made at
the argument that the rule was different in Massachusetts.
'ut we think not. On the contrary, the same rule is estabhshed there by repeated decisions, which have been followed
in other States. F.astern R. R. Co. v. Benedict et al., 5 Gray,
561 ; Folger v. Chase, 18 Pick., 63 ; HartfordBank v. Barry,
17 Mass., 94; Long v. Colburn, 11 Mass., 97; Swan v. Park,

Dec. 1863.]

Ex

PARTE VALLANDIGHAM.

Statement of the case.

1 Fairf., 441; Butland & B. B..Co. .v. Cole, 24 Vt., 33. Doubt
cannot arise in this case that the person named in the note
was in fact the cashier of the plaintiff bank, because the fact
is admitted, and it is also admitted that the plaintiff can
prove that in taking the note he acted as the cashier and
agent of the corporation, provided the evidence is legally
admissible. Our conclusion is, that the evidence is admissible, and that the suit was properly brought in the name of
the bank. The judgment of the Circuit Court is therefore
affirmed with costs.
JUDGMENT ACCORDINGLY.

EX PARTE VALLANDIGHAM.
The Supreme Court of the United States has no power to review by certiorari the proceedings of a military commission ordered by a general
officer of the United States Army, commanding a military department.

THIs case arose on the petition of Clement L. Vallandigham for a certiorari,to be directed to the Judge Advocate
General of the Army of the United States, to send up to this
court, for its review, the proceedings of a military commission, by which the said Vallandigham had been tried and
sentenced to imprisonment; the facts of the case, as derived
from the statement of the learned Justice (WAYNE) who
delivered the opinion of the court, having been as follows:
Major-General Burnside, commanding the military department of Ohio, issued a special order, No. 135, on the 21st
April, 1863, by which a military commission was appointed
to meet at Cincinnati, Ohio, on the 22d of April, or as soon
thereafter as practicable, for the trial of such persons as
might be brought before it There was a detail of officers
to constitute it, and ajudge advocate appointed.
The same general had, previously, on the 13th of April,
1863, issued a general order, No. 38, declaring, for the information of all persons concerned, that thereafter all persons

