Dec. 1863.]

GELPCKE V. CITY OF DUBUQUE.

175

Opinion of the court.

discounted by and belonged to the said Harris & Sons, or
was transmitted for collection, unless the jury shall find, from
all' the evidence in the case, that the defendants had knowledge of such private practice; and in the absence of such
knowledge, the defendants were authorized to treat such
paper according to what it purported on its face, and the
general custom of bankers in the District of Columbia and
elsewhere, offered in evidence."
This prayer contains two propositions, the one relating to
the knowledge of defendants of certain private modes of doing
business of Harris & Sons; and the other, to what the jury
were authorized to infer, from certain other circumstances,
in the absence of such knowledge on the part of defendants.
The instructions which were given by the court, and which
are in the record, were full and sound on the first of these
propositions, and we think were all that was necessary on
both branches of the prayer. But the second branch of the
instruction asked is objectionable, because it referred to the
jury the interpretation of the indorsement on the paper, and
also required of them to determine the case on the face of
the paper, and the custom of bankers alone, without reference to the special facts proven in regard to the course of
dealing between defendants and Harris & Sons. The charge
of the court left all these matters of fact to the jury for their
consideration, after a full and fair statement of all the principles of law which were necessary to a sound verdict.
We see no error in the record, and therefore the judgment
of the Circuit Court is
AFIRMED WITH COSTS.

GELPcKE ET AL. V. THE CITY OF DUBUQUE.
1. By a series of decisions of the Supreme Court of Iowa prior to that,
A.D. 1859, in The State of Iowa, ex relatione,v. The County of Wapello (13
Iowa, 888), the right of the legislature of that State to authorize municipal corporations to subscribe to railroads extending beyond tho
limits of the city or county, and to issue bonds accordingly, was settled
in favor of the right; and those decisions, meeting with the approbation

GELPCKE V. CITY OF DUBUQUE.

[Slip. Ct.

Statement of the case.
of this court, and being in harmony with the adjudications of sixteen
States of the Union, will be regarded as a true interpretation of the
constitution and laws of the State so far as relate to bonds issued and
put upon the market during the time that those decisions were in force.
The fact that the said Supreme Court of Iowa 7ow holds that those
decisions were erroneous, and ought not to have been made, and that
the legislature of the State had no such power as former courts decided
that they had, can have no effect upon transactions in the past, however it may affect those in the future.
2. Although it is the practice of this court to follow the latest settled
adjudications of the State courts giving constructions to the laws and
Constitutions of their own States, it will not necessarily follow decisions which may prove but oscillations in the course of such judicial
settlement. Nor will it follow any adjudication to such an extent as
to make a sacrifice of truth, justice, and law.
8 Municipal bonds, with coupons payable to "bearer," having, by universal usage and consent, all the qualities of commercial paper, a party
recovering on the coupons will be entitled to the amount of them, with
interest and exchange at the place where, by their terms, they were
made payable.

THE Constitution of the State of Iowa, adopted in 1846,
contains the following provisions, to wit:
"ART. 1. § 6. All laws of a general nature shall have a uniform operation."
"ART. 3. § 1. The legislative authority of the State shall be
vested in a Senate and House of Representatives, which shall be
designated the General Assembly of the State of Iowa," &e.
" ART. 7. The General Assembly shall not in any manner create
any debt or debts, liability or liabilities, which shall, singly or in
the aggregate, with any previous debts or liabilities, exceed the
4um of one hundred thousand dollars, except in case of war, to
repel invasion, or suppress insurrection."
"ART. 8. § 2. Corporations shall not be created in this State by
special laws, except for political or municipalpurposes; but the General Assembly shall provide, by general laws, for the organization of all other corporations, except corporations with banking
privileges, the creation of which is prohibited. The stockholders
shall be subject to such liabilities and restrictions as shall be provided by law. The State shall not directly or indirectly become a
stockholder in any corporation."
With these constitutional provisions in existence and force,
the legislature passed certain statutes. One,-incorporating

Dec. 1963.]

(GELPCKE V. CITY[ OF DUBUQUE.

17T

Statement of the case.

the city of Dubuque, passed February 24, 1847,-provided,
in its 27th section, as foll6ws:
'hat whenever, in the opinion of the City Council,it is expedi-n t
to borrow money for any particular purpose, the question shall be
submitted to the citizens of Dubuque, the nature and object of
the loan shall be stated, and a day fixed for the electors of said
city to express their wishes; the like notice shall be given as in
cases of election, and the loan shall not be made unless two-thirds
of all the votes polled at such election shall be given in the affirmative."
By an act passed January 8, 1851, this charter was "so
amended as to empower the City Councils to levy annually
a special tax to pay interest on such loans as are authorized
by the 27th section of said act;" that is to say, by the section
just quoted. A subsequent act,-one passed 28th January,
1857,-enacts thus:
"The city of Dubuque is hereby authorized and empowered to
aid in the construction of the Dubuque Western, and Dubuque,
St. Peter's and St. Paul Railroad Companies, by issuing $250,000
of city bonds to each, in pursuance of a vote of the citizens of said
city, taken in the month of December, A.D. 1856. Said bonds
shall be legal and valid, and the City Council is authorized and
requiredto levy a special tax to meet the principal and interest
of said bonds, in case it shall become necessary from the failure
of funds from other sources."
"The proclamation, the vote, bonds issued or to be issued, are
hereby declared valid, and the said railroad companies are hereby
authorized to expend the moneys arisingfrom the sale of said bonds,
without the limits of the city and county of Dubuque, in the construction of either of said roads; and neither the city of Dubuque nor
an. of the citizens shall ever be allowed to plead that the said bonds
ar; invalid."
With this Constitution, as already mentioned, in force,
and after the incorporation of the city and the passage of
acts of Assembly, as just mentioned,--and after certain decisions of the Supreme Court of Iowa as to the constitutionality of
these acts, the character and value of which decisions make the
VOL. 1.

12

GELPCKE v. CITY OF DUBUQUE.

[Sup. or.

Statement of the case.

principal subject of discussion in this case,-the city of Dubuque issued a large amount of coupon bonds, which were
now in the hands of the plaintiffs. The bonds bore date on
the 1st of July, 1857, and were payable to Edward Lang.
worthy, or bearer, on the 1st of January, 1877, at the Metro.
politan Bank, in the city of New York. The coupons were
for the successive half year's interest accruing on the bonds
respectively, and were payable at the same place. The
bonds recited that they were given "for and in consideration" of stock of the Dubuque Western Railroad Company,
-(one of the roads to which, by the act last mentioned, the
city was authorized to subscribe),-and that for the due payment of their principal and interest, "the said city is hereby
pledged, in accordance with the code of Iowa, and an act of
the General Assembly of the State of Iowa, of January 28,
1857,"-the act just referred to. The coupons on the bonds
not being paid, the plaintiffs sued the city of Dubuque in the
District Court of the United States for the District of Iowa,
claiming to recover the amount specified in the coupons,
with the New York rate of interest from the time of their
maturity, and exchange on the city of New York.
The city set up the following grounds of defence:
1. That the bonds were issued by the city to aid in the
construction of a railroad extending beyond its limits into the
interiorof the State.
2. That at the time of issuing the bonds and coupons, the
indebtedness of the city exceeded one hundred thousand dollars.
3. That at the time of issuing the bonds and coupons, the
indebtedness of the State of Iowa exceeded one hundred thousand
dollars.
4. That at the time of issuing the bonds and coupons, the
indebtedness of the cities and counties of Iowa exceeded, in tho
aggregate, one hundred thousand dollars.
. The plaintiffs demurred. The demurrer was overruled,
and judgment entered for the defendant. On error, the
question in this court was, whether the judgment had been
rightly given?

Dec. 1863.]

GELPCOE V. Crry or DUBUQUE.

179

Argument for the creditors.

Mr.S. V. 'White and MZfr. Allison for the bondholders: In
one point of view, the question before the court is a narrow
one; a question as to the number and relative weight of decisions of the Supreme Court of Iowa alone, and in its own
constitution and statutes; a settlement of the balance on an
account domestic simply. It is a question whether this court
will regard seven solemn decisions, made by the Supreme
Court of Iowa, beginning in A.D. 1853, and ending in
A.D. 1859, on the faith of which decisions, strangers have
lent their money for the improvement of the State itself, or
of cities which adorn and enrich it, so overruled by a decision made in A.D. 1860, or decisions of a later date, as that
bonds issued payable to BEARER, are now void in the hands
of bearers who, between the said years of 1853 and 1859,
and on the faith of those decisions, bought them in good
faith and for value. Undoubtedly we shall ask that this
question be decided; that this settlement of the account domestic simply be settled. The case involves, as a necessity,
perhaps no other question. The court may possibly confine
itself much to these limits. In some points of view, however, the issue is of greater dignity. It concerns the honor,
not of Iowa only, but of all the States; the value of millions
of securities issued by nearly every State of the Union, and
by cities and counties and boroughs in them all. Yet, more:
we shall ask this court to treat as contradicting precedents
made by the Supreme Court of Iowa itself, and so as subversive of regard for authority,-as erroneous, therefore, in the
law, and of no obligation,-the latest decisions of a State of
this Union; the decision, we mean, in The State of Iowa, ex
relatione,v. The County of Warello,* and any decisions which,
to the disregard of earlier and settled precedents, follow it.
On all these accounts the subject deserves an examination
on a wider view of precedents than those of Iowa alone.
Time is not wasted in appropriating much of it to an inqtiry
as to American decisions universally. We propose, therefore, to examine
* 13 Iowa, 388.

GELPCXE V. CITY OF DUnUQITE.

[Sur. Ct.

Argument for the creditors.

1. The adjudications of courts of the different States upon
the same or similar questions, prior to its adjudication by
the courts of Iowa.
2. The adjudications of the courts of the State of Iowa,
upon such questions; and,
8. The adjudications of the courts of the United States,
and of the several States, since the question was first decided
by the courts of Iowa.
1. And first, we may admit that all courts have held uniformly, that such acts and contracts as those to be considered
in this case do not arise from any legislative power delegated
to the municipal corporations, but that they arise only from
powers conferred by legislative act of the State.
The first case upon the subject arose in Virginia, and was
decided by the Court of Appeals of that State, A. D. 1837,
in Goddin v. Grump.* The legislature of that State had authorized the city of Richmond to subscribe for stock in a
company incorporated for the improvement of the navigation
of James River, and for building a road to the Falls of the
Xanawha River, and to borrow money to pay the same, and
to levy and collect a tax for the payment of principal and
interest so borrowed. Under these acts the Common Council
of the city of Richmond passed an ordinance subscribing for
such stock, and for levying a tax, as authorized by such acts,
and the collector of the city had levied upon a slave, the property of complainant, to satisfy the tax due from him under
such levy. The complainant exhibited his bill in equity, in
behalf of himself and others, citizens of the city of Richmond,
who were property-holders therein, and who had not consented to the passage of the acts of the legislature, nor the
acts of the council in passing the ordinance and in levying
the tax, and prayed to be relieved from the payment of such
tax; and that the collector, who, with the Common Council
of R-ichmond, was made a party defendant, might be enjoined
and restrained from the collection of such tax, perpetually;
upon the ground that the law authorizing such subscription
and levy was unconstitutional and void.
* 8 Leigh, 120.

Dec. 1863.]

GELPCKE V. CITY OF DUBUQUE.

181

Argument for the creditors.

Upon this case the Court of Appeals of Virginii (Brooke,
J., dissenting) decided:
I. That an act, to be within the legitimate scope of a municipal corporation, need not be performed in the corporate
limits, but might properly be extended to objects beyond the
limits of the corporation.
ii. That the true test of the corporate character of the act,
was the interest of the corporation.
ir. That the citizens themselves were the judges of what
was the interest of the corporation, and not the judges of the
court,'and however much a court might doubt the wisdom
of the citizens in determining that question, they would not
interfere with it.
iv. That the majority of such citizens could bind a dissenting minority, and properly charge them and their property with the payment of tax, to which they had given no
assent.
v. That the laws in question are not repugnant to the Constitution, and the bill was accordingly dismissed vith costs.
The next case in point arose, A. D. 1848, before the Supreme
Court of Errors of the State of Connecticut, City of Bridgeport v. Housatonic R. 1R. Co.* In that case, in March, 1837,
the city of Bridgeport voted to take stock in the Iousatonic
Railroad Company, and to procure loans of money, pledging
the faith of the city therefor. In May, 1838, the legislature
confirmed and legalized such acts; and on June 15th, 1888,
the bonds sued on were duly issued. The court unanimously
decided:
I. The legislat Lire can give power to municipal. corporations to subscribe stock in railroads passing through or terminating in them;
ii. That the legislature may, by act or resolution, confirm
and render valid, prior voidable acts of such corporations;
III. That the fact of a municipal corporation becoming
stockholders in a railroad, and therefore, pro tanto, going
beyond the legitimate ends for which the corporation was
* 15 Connecticut, 475.

[Sup. Ct.

GELPCKE V. CITY OF DUBUQUE.
Argument for the creditors.

constructed, is only an incident to the general power to provide for the interests of the citizens of the corporation, and
does not, therefore, take it out of the scope of its corporato
acts ;
iv. That a majority of such citizens can constitutionally
decide upon the acts of the corporation, and compel a minority to contribute, by taxation, to objects to which such
minority are opposed.
The next case was in the Supreme Court of Tennessee,
Nichol v. Mayor of Nashville,* December Term, A. D. 1848.
The legislature of Tennessee had incorporated a railroad
company, and by subsequent act the town of Nashville was
authorized to subscribe 20,000 shares of its stock, and to borrow money, and to levy taxes to pay principal and interest on
such loan. A bill was filed in equity to enjoin the borrowing of money under said act, and to prevent the issue of
bonds and the levy of a tax, the ground assigned being, the
acts were unconstitutional and void. Demurrer to bill. The
court decide:
i. That the building of a railroad or aiding therein, by
subscription to the stock, which railroad shall terminate in,
or pass through or near a municipal corporation, is within
the legitimate scope of corporate acts, and for such purposes
a tax may be levied and collected by the delegated authorities
of such corporation;
ii. That such act neither contravenes the provisions of the
Constitution of the United States, nor of the State of Tennessee.
The same questions came before the Court of Appeals in
Xentucky, in Talbot v. -DenttA. D. 1849, and again, A. D.
1852, in Slack v. ]Lsajsville R. R. Co.+
The chief justice delivered the opinion of the court in both
cases, and in both, the foregoing decisions of Virginia, Connecticut, and Tennessee were cited, argued, approved, and
followed, at length.
The same questions came before the Supreme Court of
-x9 Humphreys, 952

-t 9 B. Monroe, 52&

I13

aId..

Dec. 1863.]

GELPCrE V. CITY Or DUBUQUE.

183

Argument for the creditors.

Pennsylvania, in The Commonwealth v. c Wlliains,* May
Term, 1849, and again in Sharpless v. _fayor,t and in Moers
v. City of Reading.$ All these cases decide the questions as
firmer and other courts had done, and hold the bonds binding.

The Supreme Court of Illinois, A. D. 1849,§ held an act
of the legislature, giving the right of taxation to a certain
precinct, to keep up a bridge across Rock River, to be constitutional, and sustained a tax levied by the local authorities
under such law; and the Supreme Court of New York,I
May Term, 1840, made a similar ruling in behalf of a law
authorizing a municipal tax, for the purpose of paying the
excess of expenses for bringing a canal to such corporation,
although private individuals had given bond for the payment
of such excess to the canal company.
The same questions came before the Supreme Court of
Ohio, A.D. 1852, and A.D. 1853, in two cases, in which
the questions were decided as in all the cases already named.
Comment may therefore be spared.
Thus there had then been decisions of the highest appellate courts of eight States of the Union, extending through
a period of sixteen years, and numbering in all twelve such
decisions.
2. As respects the Courts of Iowa. And here, we premise,
that so far as cities are concerned, there has never been a
decision made upon the question in Iowa, but the principle
has been repeatedly settled in the case of counties; upon principles, however, equally binding upon cities.
The question came before the Supreme Court of Iowa, at
the June Term, 1853, in the case of Dubuque Co. v. Dubuque
and Pac/ic R. B. CO.,** and the court held:
I. That a county has the constitutional right to aid in
bailding a railroad within its limits.
t 21 Id., 147.
± Id., 188.
Show v. Dennis, 5 Gilman, 405.
Tnomas v. Leland, 24 Wendell, 65.
Cincinnati R. R. Co. v. Commissioners of Clinton County, 1 Ohio State,
and Cass v. Dillon, 2 Id., 607.
** 4 G. Greene, 1.

* 11 Pennsylvania State, 61.

GELPCKE V. CITY OF DUBUQUE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the creditors.

ii. That the provision of the Constitution, which limited
the State debts tothe sum of $100,000, and also the provision
which declares that the State shall not directly nor indirectly
become a stockholder in any corporation, applied only to the
State in its sovereign capacity.
II. That § 114 of the Code of 1851, applied as well to
railroads as to ordinary roads, and that proceedings regularly bad, under that and subsequent sections, to § 124 inclusive, were regular and legal, and authorized the issue of
bonds for railroad purposes, and that said railroad bonds
were valid and binding upon the county. This opinion is
written by Greene, J.; Kinney, J. dissenting.
At the June Term, 1854, in The State v. Bissell,* the same
question was raised, together with minor questions, about
the regularity of the proceedings. It was a proceeding in
Chancery to prohibit the county judge of Cedar County
from issuing bonds to a certain railroad company. The
county judge in response set out his action in the premises,
to which the relators filed a demurrer, which was sustained
by the court below, and the defendant prohibited from levying the tax by perpetual injunction. From this decree the
defendant, the county judge, appealed, and the case was
heard in the Supreme Court, the decree reversed, and the
county judge permitted to issue bonds and levy and collect
a tax therefor. In this case the opinion was written by Hall,
J., and the decision last but one cited is followed without
comment. Although Greene, J., dissented on a minor question, growing out of the facts in the case, there was no dissenting opinion on the constitutionality of the bonds.
Next in order, in the course of the history of this question, in the State of Iowa, are two acts of the legislature of
the State, passed at the session of December, A. D. 1854,
both approved January 28th, 1855.t
By the first of these it is enacted, " That wherever any
[railway] company shall have received, or may hereafter re* 4 G. Greene, 328.

t Chap. 128 and 146, of acts of Fifth General Assembly of the State of
Iowa, 142 and 219, respect vely.

Dec. 1863.]

GELPCKE V. CITY OF DUBUQUE.
Argument for the creditors.

ceive, the bonds of any city or county upon subscription of
stock, by such city or county, such bonds may have interust
at any rate not exceeding ten per cent., and may be sold by
the company, at such discount as may be deemed expedient."By- the second it is enacted, "that in all cases where
county or town or city incorporations have or may hereafter
become stockholders in railroads, or other private companies or incorporations, it shall not be lawful for the county
judges, mayors, or other agents of such cities or counties,
to issue the bonds of their counties, or cities, until they are
satisfied that. the contemplated improvements will be constructed through or to their respective cities or counties,
within thirty-six months from the issuing and delivery of
said bonds; and the proceeds of such bonds shall, in all
cases, be expended within the limits of the county in which
said city may be situated; Provided,that nothing in this act
shall in any way affect corporation rights, for any contracts
or subscriptions heretofore made with any railroad company
or corporation, for the issuing of county corporation bonds."
These acts show the construction of the State authorities
at that time, and are themselves a legislative acknowledgment that under prior laws such municipal corporations had
the right to issue bonds to railroads and to take stock in
them, and afforded general authority of law for such actions
nn the part of such corporations in future.
The next case that came before the Supreme Court of the
State, was that of Clapp v. The County of Ccdar,* a suit
brought on the same bonds, the issue of which was sought
to be enjoined in the case of The State v. Bi'sll, and was
determined before the court at the June Term, A.D. 1857,
by a court composed entirely of different judges from those
on the bench when the last cause was decided. In that case
the majority of the court hold:
. That the question of the constitutionality of the bonds
is decided by the prior decisions, upon which the public and
the world have acted, and that a change of ruling would be
"the worst of all repudiatiou,-judicial repudiation."
5 Iowa. 15.

GELPCKE V. CITY OF

DunuQuE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the creditors.

ii. That such bonds and coupons were negotiable as under
t.he law merchant.
Other questions foreign to this subject were also discussed,
but it is unnecessary to refer to them. Wright, C. J., dissented, to use his own words, "very reluctantly," on the
question of the constitutionality of such bonds.
The question again was decided three times at the June
Term, 1858, in Bing v. The County of Johnson,* in MclIillen
v. Boyles,t and in McMillen v. The County Judge and Treasurer
of Lee County.t The opinions in the first two cases were
written by Woodward (Wright, C. J., dissenting in the first
case); in the second case no one dissented; and the opinion
in the third case was written by Wright, former dissenting
judge. Each case holds,
I. That the question is settled by the Supreme Court by
former adjudications, that the counties have the right, constitutionally, to take stock in a railroad, and to issue their
bonds therefor.
II. And the second and third cases decide that the legislature by a curative act had made the bonds of Lee County
binding upon the county, although from an informality they

were irregularly issued.
In one of the cases, Bing v. The County of Johnson,§which
was decided a few days before the others, Chief Justice
Wright wrote a short dissenting opinion.
Next in order in the decisions of this question comes
Games v. 1obb,I June Term, 1859, and the opinion is here
written by Chief Justice Wright, who says: "That the judge
had the power to submit a vote to take subscription on a
railroad, to the people, and to levy a tax therefor, we understand to be settled in favor of the power by the cases of Clapp
v. Cedar County, Ring v. The County of J"ohnson,** and Meiillen.v. Boyles,tt and the cases there referred to." Thus, all
the judges concur in the decision of this question, as they

did in .Afclfillcn v. Boyles, holding the constitutionality of
* 6 Iowa, 265.

8 Id., 193.

t- Id., 304.
15 Id., 15.

Id., 391.
**6 Id., 265.
**

6 Id., 265.

ft 6 Id., 804

Dec. 1863.]

GELPCKE V. CITY oF DUBUQUE.

187

Argument for the creditors.

the bonds to be decided by the former' cases, the opinion of
the court being, in each case, written by the learned judge
%N
ho alone had dissented.
We thus have the decisions of the Supreme Court of
Iowa, given to the world through a period of six years, by
two different benches, in seven different decisions of the
court, upon the questions now made before this court, and
although two judges had dissented during that time, yet in
the opinion of the Chief Justice of the State, written by
him who alone had before that time "very reluctantly" dissented, the great commercial world, whose money was at
that very moment building up the commerce of the State
by extending railroads through it, were assured that the
question was settled, and that, too, in favor of the legality
and negotiability of these bonds. Whether, in view of the
Constitution of Iowa, it was or was not rightly settled in the
first instance, is a matter not important at all to inquire
into. It was settled by a tribunal which had power to settle
it; and on the faith of judicial decisions the bonds were sold.
Before examining decisions since made by the Supreme
Court of Iowa, let us mention the decisions of other courts,
down to the date when, at December Term, 1859, the Supreme Court just named took that first step, in Stokes v. The
County of Scott, in overthrowing i s decision, which was consummated in The State, ex relatione,v. The County of Wapello;
at the June Term, 1862.
In Ohio, the Supreme Court, at different dates, has affirmed
its ruling in five different decisions.* In Missouri, its court
followed, in 1856, previous rulings also.t In this, the Supreme Court of the United States, the question was decided
twice at December Term, 1858, and once in 1859, and once
in 1860.1
* Ohio v. Commissioners of Clinton, 6 Ohio State, 280; The State v. Van
Home, 7 Id., 327; Id. v. Trustee- of Union, 8 Id., 394; Id. v. Commissioners of Hancock, 12 Id., 5906; Trustees v. Shoemaker, 12 Id., 624.
t City v. Alexander, 23 Missouri, 483.
+ Commissioners of Knox Co. v. Aspinwall, 21 Howard, 539; Same -.
Wallace, Id., 547; Zabribkie v. The Cleveland R. R.. 23 Id., 381: Amey V
The Mayor, 24 Id, 365; Commissioners, &c., v. Aspinwall, Id., 376.

188

GELPCKE V. CITY OF DUBUQUE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the creditors.

The District Court of the United States for the District of
Wisconsin, in A. D. 1861, made similar decisions, in Smith v.
Milwaukee & Superior R. 1R. Co.,*'and .fygatt v. City of Green
Bay.t
The Supreme Court of New York, at June Term, 1857, in
Clarke v. The City of .Rochester,j in a review of the question,
after an elaborate argument before them, made the same
ruling, which was affirmed by the Court of Appeals of that
State at the September Term, 1858, nemine dissentiente.§
The Supreme Court of Indiana, at the May Term, 1857,11
made the same ruling.
The Supreme Court of Illinois made a similar ruling, in
April Term, 1858, which was, in April Term, 1860, affirmed
in two cases.**
The same question, after elaborate discussion, was also
unanimously decided in the same way, at the January Term,
1857, of the Court of Appeals of South Carolina.tt
The Supreme Court of Wisconsin, at the December Term,
1859, in the two cases,11 made the same ruling, and decided
every constitutional question in this case under a Constitution the same as that of the State of Iowa, in favor of the
legality of such bonds; and that, too, by the unanimous concurrence of the whole bench. There are other cases, in
others of the States of the Union, which might be cited, but
it would only tend to lengthen the list, rather than to make it
stronger.
Nowhere, in short, can an authority be found, save the
subsequent ruling of the State of Iowa, where the highest
appellate court of a State, or of the United States, has held
such bonds to be invalid, in the hands of bond fide holders
for value; and at the time when that decision was rendered,
* 9 American Law Register, 655.

t 8 Id., 271. + 24 Barbour, 446.
Bank of Rome v. Village of Rome, 18 New York, 88.
flThe City of Aurora v. 'West, 0 Indiana, 74.
Prettyman v. Supervisors, 19 Illinois, 406.
** Johnson v. The County, 24 Id., 75; Perkins v. Lewis, Id., 208.
- Copes v. Charleston, 10 Richardson, 491.
:$: Clark v. City. 10 Wiscon.-in, 136, nd Bushnell v. Beloit, Id., 195.

Dec. 1868.]

GELPOKE V. CITY

OF

DUBUQUE.

189

Argument for the creditors.

decisions had been made by the Supreme Court of the United
States, and of fifteen of the different States of the Union, of
which Iowa was one, running through a quarter of a century
of time, and all going to establish the obligation.
But upon what grounds was this contrarient decision
finally based?
. In Stokes v. The County of Scott,* the majority of the court
held, where the bonds had been negotiated, and rights bad
become vested, by purchase, by innocent holders, that there
they were valid; but that where the question was presented
prior to the issue of such bonds, the court might properly
interfere to restrain the issue. Wright, C. J., took his former position, holding such bonds to be unconstitutional and
void, in the hands of all parties. Stockton, J., held the bonds
constitutional, but not warranted by law; that they might
be enforced by innocent third parties, but that it was properly within the province of a court of equity to restrain the
issue thereof, where the question was presented in limine.
Woodward, J., dissented from both the other judges, holding that the question was settled in the State, and that it was
the duty of the court to abide by precedents.
Of the immediate effect of this decision, the world had no
right to complain, as no money had been invested, and it
was only so far as it tended to cast loose from the accepted
decisions of the State of Iowa, and of other States, and to
,render vested rights insecure, that it tended to work a hardship upon the commercial world.
We come now to The State of Iowa, ex relatione, v. The County
of Wapello, June Term, 1862. The court there decided:
I. That section 114 of the Code of 1851, did not afford
the authority of law for issuing of county bonds, overruling
the case of 1858,--Dubuque County v. Dubuque and Pacific
Railroad Co.
ii. That certain statutes relied on, did not afford such authority, nor legalize such acts already performed; butm. That if a constitutional question did not preclude it,
* 10 Iowa, 166.

GELPOKE V. CITY op DUBUQUE.

[Sup. ct.

Argument for the creditors.

the court would feel bound by the construction of the statute by former courts, and would follow such decisions.
iv. That such a law, however passed, would not confer
the authority, because unconstitutional.
[The counsel then examined this case on principle, arguing
that independently of precedents it was wrongly decided.]
Now in the face of this history of decisions in Iowa and
everywhere, of what value is this case, The State of Iowa, ex
rel., v. The County of Wapello, so much relied on ? By whom,
after all, is law to be settled among us? By the Supreme
Court of the United States, or of the State of Iowa? By
the supreme tribunal of fifteen States or of one? By the
Supreme Court of Iowa for seven years or for two ? By six
judges of that State or by three? Are you to hold, in the
face of the fact that millions of dollars have been invested,
under the law which enters into and forms a part of every
contract as it was interpreted by the courts of the whole
country, that you yourselves were mistaken? That for
twenty-five years all the tribunals of the whole country were
mistaken? That for seven years the Supreme Court of Iowa
was mistaken? Because it appears now that that tribunal
has reversed its long-established rulings? Had the question
been presented to you one year ago to-day, you would not
have hesitated an hour on the proposition, for then there
was no diversity of rulings anywhere. Because the Supreme
Court of Iowa has chosen thus to disregard its own precedents, are millions of property, treasured on the banks of
the Delaware, the Hudson, the Thames, the Seine, and the
Rhine; are the decisions of this State of Iowa itself, as of all
the States; the reputation of that people, as of Americans
generally, to be swept away? swept away by a "surge of
judicial opinion ?" Is the sway of law among us thus to
"shake like a thing unfirm ?" This L-nnot be. At best
there is no settled law in Iowa upon the subject. The court
of this year has reversed the decisions of former years; and
has but taught instructions which will return, hereafter, to
plague it. Assuredly, this high tribunal of the United
States, whose opinion has been expressed with clearnese,

Dec. 1863.]

GELPOKE V. CITY OF DUBUQUE.
Argument for the City.

will not vary its op-uion and cut loose from its own, and
from" accepted decisions of the whole country, at a time
when, above all times, change would be unwarranted in
principle and freighted with disaster.
Mr. Bissel, for the City of .Dubuque: The question is,
-Whether a subscription to an extra-territorial railway,made by a city corporation under authority of an act of the
legislature,-is valid under the Constitution and decisions of
tlw State of Iowa? It is not here important for us to inquire
what other courts, acting under other constitutions and
under other laws, may have decided. And, first, it is conceded by the other side that a city corporation has no power
by virtue of its ordinary franchises to make such subscription. If the power exist at all, it is now admitted that it
comes only from legislation directly authorizing it. How,
then, stands the case?
1. Let it be considered irrespectively of precedents anywhere. Under our form.of government, the legislature, unlike
parliament, is not omnipotent. Irrespectively of all constitutions, bills of right, or anything of that sort, it will be
conceded that the legislature cannot directly take the property of one man and give it to another, or compel one man,
or any number of men, to engage in particular pursuits, or
to invest their money in particular securities. Nor can it
take private property for even public purposes, without just
compensation; compensation of some kind or in some way.
What it cannot do in one form it cannot do in another.
What it cannot do by command, it cannot do by taxation.
If the legislature should. tax the property of individuals in
one city for all the expenses of another, such legislation
would be void. And even in regard to improvements of a
kind really public, if more than any citizen's just share of
the expense of them is taken, the legislation is null. If
power is given to take property in one place which concerns the public at large, property not being proportionably
taken from that public at large, or if property is taken
from. one place only for objects which concern another, the

GELPCKE V. CITY OF DUBUQUE.

[Sup. Ct

Argument for the City.

power is not one conformed to the principles of constitutional republican government. Now a man's property is as
much taken by a tax as by any other form. Indeed of all
modes of taking property it is the most effective, as also the
most difficult to analyze and oppose. It has always been the
instrument of unconstitutional legislation, and, therefore,
should be watched and guarded. It is of the essence of taxation, therefore, that it be just. And wherein does this justness consist? Plainly in a just apportionment of taxes; that
is to say, an apportionment which brings to the party, in
some form, just compensation for this property taken away.
In regard to a man's property taken by tax and applied to
purposes purely local and about him, he gets the just recompense, by the application itself. Where the application is
to purposes of a wider and more public kind,-for the purposes of his State, or the United States,-he gets a just recompense, provided all others are taxed proportionablywith him.
But just in so far as he is taxed above them, he gets no just
recompense at all. The principles are readily applied to a
case like the present.
It is almost unnecessary to say, that what the legislature
cannot do directly, it cannot do indirectly. The stream can
mount no higher than its source. The legislature cannot
create corporations with illegal powers, nor grant unconstitutional powers to those already granted.
Again: Counsel of the other side do not distinguish well
between private corporations and public ones.
Private corporations are only created with the assent of
the corporators. They, by becoming corporators, voluntaril/
enter into a contract, by which they put their money or property into a common fund, to be controlled in accordance

with rules to which they have assented, and which cannot
be changed without their assent. The legislature cannot
change the terms of their charter, neither can the majority
Of the corporators, unless it has been so prescribed in the
contract, to which each corporator has given his assent. It
is therefore right that these corporations should be permitted
to enter into such speculations as they may choose. Each

Dec. 1863.]

GELPCKE V. CITY oF DUBUQUE.
Argument for the City.

member has placed just so much of his property under the
control of the corporation, as he has deemed best for his interest, and no more. With public corporations it is diff rent.

The corporation is created by the legislature without necessarily consulting the will of the inhabitants, and often, in
fact, in opposition to said will. The rights, duties, and powers
of public corporations may be altered or taken away at any
time by legislative enactment, or greater powers may be conferred upon the corporation in the same manner. The inhabitants of such corporation have no voice in accepting the
charter; they have no power of electing how much of their
property they will subject to the control of the corporation;
they cannot transfer their stock, and thus cease to be members of such corporation. The legislature has power to create
such corporation, in opposition to the will of the corporators,
because such corporation is a portion of the government of
the State itself, and every man yields up to the State just so
many of his inherent rights, as are necessary to carry on the
government which protects him. As said before, every citizen of a State yields up to the State all those rights which
are necessary to carry on the government.. He yields up the
right without his individual assent, to be united, with other citizens, into cities, towns, counties, &c., as the legislature may
deem proper. As it is necessary to have roads, wharves,
waterworks, &c., for the use of the~citizens of such corporations, he yields his assent to be taxed for the creation of such
works. Such works, however, when created, are under the
control of the corporation. They are for the sole use of the
corporation.
In regard to the State of Iowa, its Constitution comes in
aid of general principles. It declares (i) that all laws of a
general nature shall have a uniform operation. Is not a
law which authorizes a great public improvement-one run.
ning over the State-a law of a general nature? Does it
have a uniform operation when the cost of it is laid on the
people living at one terminus, all those along its line being
exempt? It declares (ii) that the legislative power of the
State shall be vested in the Assembly of the State: meaning,
VOL. 1.

13

GELPCKE V. CITY OF DUBUQUE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the City.

of course, that it shall not be delegated.

But is it not Jlele-

gated when, by statute, you give a city power to legislate in
a manner, which, but for the statute, it confessedly would not
have? It declares (iii) that the Assembly shall not" in any
manner create any debt,... which shall singly or in the aggregate, ....
exceed $100,000." The restraint is not against
the creation of a debt in behalf of the State, any more than
on behalf of her subdivisions. The language is broad.
When the State authorizes the cities, counties, townships,
boroughs, which cover her whole surface, to lay debts on
every respective part of her, is not the purpose of the restraint violated? A construction which renders practically
vain a constitutionalprovision which a different interpretation,
not forced, will preserve, can not be a sound one. It de.
clares (iv) that corporations shall uot be created by general
laws, except for political or municipal purposes. Here is a
law, in fact creating a corporation for a purpose which is
neither. It declares in the same section that the State shall
not directly nor indirectly become a stockholder in any corporation. But does not the State become indirectly a stockholder in a corporation, when she authorizes a portion of
her people to enter into an organization, which, but for her
statute, they cannot have, and allows them in such form to become a stockholder in a corporation?
It is urged that the courts of the different States of the
Union have decided this question so uniformly in favor of
the power of the legislature to confer the authority claimed,
that it is no longer an open question. We may observe in
passing that it is matter of difficulty for professional men or
judges-if not belonging to a State-perfectly to understand
the value of decisions made under local constitutions ant
local statutes in that State. They may run into great error
if they read them by lights in which they are accustomed
to see elsewhere. But assuming all that is claimed for them,
such decisions are not binding upon this court; and if the
decisions of other courts are not in accordance with the law
as understood by this court, they will not be followed. If a
dissenting opinion of said courts is based upon correct legal

Dec. 1863.]

GELPCKE V. CITY OF DUBUQUE.
Argument for the City.

principles, this court will follow such principles, rather than
an erroneous decision of a court. Let us see if the decisions
of the courts of the different States do establish the principle,
that a legislature, with power like that of the State of Iowa,
can confer upon municipal corporations the right to purchase
stock in railroad corporations.
In the first case cited, Goddin v. &ump, it was decided
that the legislature of Virginia had power to authorize the
city of Richmond to levy a tax, to aid in removing a bar
from James River, to open navigation to the city, and to
take stock in a private corporation, organized to perform
such work. This river was a navigable stream, under the
laws of Virginia. The court held that the levy of the tax to
pay for such stock was legal, and also held that the interest
of the corporation was the true test of the corporate character of the act, and that the legislature was the sole judge of
what would conduce to the interest of the city. The act
giving the power to aid in the construction of said work,
was passed at the request of a majority of the citizens f the
city. The majority of the court seem to have lost eight of
the fact that an interest in an improvement is entirely different from an incidental benefit arising from the same improvement. But there is a dissenting opinion by Brooke,
J., which places the question upon the true grounds. He
holds that such legislation violated the bill of rights-, that
the power of such corporations to tax the people must be
limited to objects of purely a local, character. This case
arose under an express act of the legislature, giving the speeific power claimed.
In the next case relied on, Bridgeportv. Housatonic Railroad
Go., it was decided that the legislature, upon request of a
.ity, may authorize such city to subscribe for and.take stock
in a railroad leading to such city, provided such act be approved by the people of the city. The only clause in the
Constitution, vhich was claimed to restrict the legislature,
was that which forbade private property being taken for
pubhc use without ,compensation. This was also under an
express act of the legislatue.

GELPCKE V. CITY OF DUBUQUE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the City.

In Tennessee it has been decided-the third case cited,
shows-that under the provision of the Constitution of that
State, which provides that "the legislature has power to
grant to counties and incorporated towns the right to impose
taxes for county and corporation purposes," the legislature
may authorize a city to aid in the construction of a railroad
to such corporation,and when the expenditure is by a county,
the expenditure must be within the county. The Constitu.
tion of that State does not limit the grant to an expenditure
municipal for municipal purposes, but for corporate purposes.
In Kentucky, it has been decided that the legislature had
power to authorize municipal corporations to take stock in
railroad corporations, and levy taxes to assist in building

said road to such corporation. There is an able dissenting
opinion in this case. This decision is founded upon the fact
that there was no limitation to the legislative power in their
Constitution, and that it was, therefore, omnipotent.
In Pennsylvania, this doctrine was carried to its extreme
limit in one case,-Sharplessv. The Mayor of Philadelphia,where it was decided that a municipal corporation may aid
in the construction of a railroad, miles away, if it can be
supposed that it may benefit the corporation; and that the
legislature is the judge of the question. But in another,-Diamondv. The County of Lawrence,*-when suit was brought
on bonds, like those here, in the hands of holders who had
paid value for them, the court declared that they were open
to defences of every kind; and a recovery was not had.
In Illinois, where there is no constitutional limitation, it
has been held that a municipal corporation may, under legislative authority, aid in the construction of railroads within
the corporation.
In Florida, under a similar provision of the Constitution
to that of Tennessee, it was held that a county might aid in
constructing a railroad through the county.t
Other States have followed the decisions we dissent from;
some following them to a full extent, and some limiting the
* 37 Pennsylvania State, 858.

See ante, M1ercer County v. Hacket, p. 87.

f Cotton v. Com. of Leon, 6 Florida, 610.

Dec. 1863.]

GELPCKE V. CITY or DUBUQUE.

197

Argument for the City.

application to a narrower compass. All of the decisions, we
believe, are where there was no constitutional restriction, or
where the power was expressly given, as in Tennessee and
Florida.
In many of the decisions, the courts seem to have been
imbued with the frenzy of the day, and to have lost sight
of the well-defined distinction between the powers and liabilities of municipal and private corporations.
This question, it is believed, has not been decided by this
court as an independent question; but its decisions so far are
based upon the decisions of the courts of the State in which
the cases originated, and upon the rule that this court will
follow the decisions of State courts, as to the construction
of their own Constitution or statutes. If this question has
been settled by the courts in the State of Iowa, then this
court will follow such ruling; but if they have not settled
it, then it is an open question for determination by this court.
What is the history of these decisions?
The Supreme Court of Iowa, in the case of The .Dubuque
and Pacific Railroad Co. v. Dubuque Cbunt,, which is claimed
to be decisive of this question, decided that the Constitution
of the State had not deprived the citizens of the county of
the right to vote the credit of said county to build a railroad within the county limits. That court uses the following language: "As the people have not, in the Constitution, delegated this power, to vote upon such propositions, nor in any way conceded or divested themselves of
this right, but have in express terms affirmed, in the bill of
rights, that ' all political power is inherent in the people'
(Art. I, See. 2), we conclude that the people may, with constitutional propriety, vote the credit of the county to aid in
the construction of a railroad within its limits;" one judge
dissenting as to the power of the county to take stock in
railroads. That court has thus decided that the Constitution
has not conferred upon the legislature of the State any power
to authorize such an expenditure. That this power is not
in the people in their aggregate capacity, either as a town,
city,-county, or State, but in their individual capacity. It

GELPOKE v. CITY OF DUBUQUE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the City.

holds virtually that the legislature has no such power, but
that it is inherent in the people. There is nothing said about
the power of the legislature to confer this authority on a city
or county.
The next case relied on is the State v. Bissell. In that case
the question was not raised, and the court say: "This decision is not intended to sanction or deny the legal validity
of the decision in the foregoing case, but to leave that question where that decision has left it."*
The next case is Clappv. County of Cedar. The court disposes of the constitutional question with the following remarks: "The second step would be, whether a legislature
possesses the power to confer this authority upon a county?
Few have doubted the existence of this power, the question
having generally been, whether the power had been exercised, or whether a county possessed the desired authority
without a special grant?"t The court, however, say that
"this power is not, as far as the court can see, derived from
any legislative enactment," but, upon the strength of the
judgment of the court in the above case of The Dubuque and
Pacific Railroad Co. v. -Dubuque County, it decides that the
counties have power to aid in the construction of railroads
within the limits of such county; one judge dissenting.
In Bing v. Johnson Co., and McllMillen v. Boyles, the last
cases cited on the other side, the question was not directly
raised nor decided, the court conceding that counties had the
right to aid in the construction of railroads to be constructed
within their limits.4
But confessedly the Iowa decisions in favor of these bonds
end here. They were never quite unanimous, and have
never given satisfaction to either profession or courts. In
Stokes v. The County of Scott, a majority of the court assumed
tenable ground, and restrained an issue about to be made.
Then came The State, ex relatione, v. The County of Wapello, a
case fully argued, much considered, and unanimously decided. That this case does decide these bonds to be void, that
4 G. Greene, 332.
See, also, Games v.

t 5 Iowa, 45.

Robb,

8 Iowa, 199.

Dec. 1863.]

GELPCKE

V. CITY

OF DUBUQUE.

199

Argument for the City.

such is now the law in the State of Iowa, is undeniable, we
tl!ik. The court in that great case remarks, that although
some fourteen or fifteen States had expressed their opinions
upon this exercise of power by municipal corporations, they
had not reached satisfactory conclusions. Hence, it declares,
the renewed agitation on the subject; an agitation, it remarks,
which "will, continue to obtrude itself upon the courts of the
country, year after year, until they have finally settled it upon
principles of adjudication which are known to be of the class
of those that are laid up among the fundamentals of the law:
and which will leave the capital of private individuals where
the railroad era, when it dawned upon the world, found it,
namely, under the control and dominion of those who have
it, to be employed in whatever field of industry and enterprise they themselves might judge best." The court then
speaks of the decisions of Iowa from the first, Dubuque Cb. v.
The Dubuque, &c., f. B., in 1853, where by a divided court
the power was held to have been given, to the last, Stokes v.
County of Scott, in 1859, where by a like court it was to a
degree decided otherwise. "The intermediate decisions,"
it declares, "were an acquiescence in the former of these, by
two members of the court, not upon the ground that the
legislature had in fact authorize'd the exercise of any such
power by the cities or counties in this State (for this they
had expressed very great doubts about, and affected not to
believe), but because they felt themselves so much committed
and trammelled by the previous decision and subsequent
legislative recognition, that they did not feel themselves at
liberty, from public considerations, to unsettle the construction which the first decision had given to the code on the
subject."
"In this aspect of the case," the court continues, "it will
be perceived that the question now under consideration is an
entirely open one in this State, and that this court as now
constituted must pass upon it as an original question, wholly
unaffected by the doctrine of stare deci.is; or, if influenced
at all by prior decisions, we should be inclined to follow the
la-.r rather than the earlier opinions." The court then ex-

GELPCKE V. CITY OF DUBUQUE.

[Sup. or.

Argument for the City.

amines the history of legislation in Iowa, and shows that
important features in it have escaped the notice of judges who
first gave a construction to the code. It then inquires whether the legislature can pass laws like those in question, and
considers the question on the principles of State and of municipal governments, and on the character and responsibilities,
the risks and liabilities, of railroad corporations; declaring
that the legislature cannot. The court was conscious of the
importance of the decision they were making. They say, in
denying the validity of these bonds: "We are not insensible
that in doing so, at this late day, we are liable to expose ourselves and our people to the charge of insincerity and bad
faith, and perhaps that which is still worse, inflict a great
wrong upon innocent creditors and bondholders: consequences which we would most gladly have avoided, if we
could have done so and been true to the obligations of conscience and principle." IBut they declare that the legislative
power assumed "practically overturns one of the reserved
and fundamental rights of the citizen, that of making his
own contracts, choosing his own business pursuits, and
ulanaging his property and means in his own way, and which,
under the Constitution of this State, however it may be elsewhere, entitles him to the intervention and protection of the
courts, we are willing to risk the consequences resulting from
the exercise of such a power as furnishing a sufficient answer
in itself to all the reasons which have been or may be assigned
in favor of its exercise." In answer to the cry about improvement and trade, they declare that if any person "who
believes the law to possess the dignity of a science, and hold
an exalted rank in the empire of reason," will "analyze the
question with reference to the principles and theory of our
own political organization, he will discover that it implicates
a right which in importance is above all or any interest connected with the business relation or the physical improvements of the county." And rendering everything to its proper sphere, and leaving to the law its duties, and to conscience
hers, they end with this declaration : "We know, however,
that there is surh a thing as a moral sense and a public faith

Dec. 1868.J

GELPcKE v. CITY OF DuBuQuE.

201

Argument for the City.

whien may be successfully appealed tp, when the law is hn.
potent to afford relief. These sentiments, we cannot but be.
lieve, still reside in the hearts and consciences of our people,
and may be invoked to save themselves and their State from
seeming bad faith." The case may be avoided or evaded.
Answered, on principle, it cannot be.
Amey v. Alleghany City, decided in this court in 1859,* is
one of the decisions relied on to support the plaintiff's case;
but that decision is against it. The case, a Pennsylvania
one, acknowledged the force of the argument we have used
as to the proper objects of legislation, and the constitutionality or unconstitutionality of statutes accordingly. But the
court considered that constitutionality was not there open for
discussion ; it having been affirmed by the State court. If
it had been open, such legislation would not have been supported. "We have not," say the court, "discussed that. position of the learned counsel. Agreeing with him in the main, as
to the foundations upon which the correctness of legislation should
be tested, and the objects for which it ought to be approved, we
cannot, with the respect which we have for the judiciary of
his State, discuss the imputed unconstitutionality of the acts;
it having been repeatedly decided by the judges of the courts
of Pennsylvania, including its Supreme Court, that acts for
the same purposes as those are which we have been considering were constitutional."
If this court considers, as the court of Iowa has done, that
the constitutionality of the Iowa acts is open for consideration, they will decide that constitutionality does not exist, and
that the bonds are void.
Then, the question is, whether the constitution and laws of
a State are to be construed by the State courts of other
States, or by its own courts? whether, in a case where no
power to interpret above the State's court is given to the Supreme Court of the United States-as such power is given in
certain other cases,t where a writ of error lies to the highest
State court fiom this-this court will determine that the con.
* 24 Howard, 364.

f Judiciary Act, 1789, '25.

GELPCKE v. CITY OF DUBUQUE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

stitution and statutes of a State mean one thing, when the
courts of the State itself have solemnly adjudged that they
mean another? whether this court will say, that the State
courts have decided a question, when the judges who sit on
the bench of that court are declaring unanimously that" the
question is an entirely open one," and to be passed upon as an
"original question ?" whether, because dealers upon change,
whose daily bread, like that of underwriters, is "risk;"
people upon the "Rhine "-the respectable citizens of the
Juden-Gasse of Frankfiirt-am-Maine,-have bought these
bonds at large discounts, on account of those doubts of their legality which everywhere have attended the issue of them, shall
have them enforced in the face of constitutions and solemn
decisions of the State courts, simply because they have bought
and yet bold them? These are the questions; some of them
grave ones,-if resolved in the affirmative.
Mr. Justice S WAYNE delivered the opinion of the court:
The whole case resolves itself into a question of the power
of the city to issue bonds for the purpose stated.
The act incorporating the city, approved February 24,
1847, provides as follows:
"SECT. 27. That whenever, in the opinion of the City Council,
it is expedient to borrow money for any public purpose, the
question shall be submitted to the citizens of Dubuque, the nature and object of the loan shall be stated, and a day fixed for
the electors of said city to express their wishes, the like notice
shall be given as in cases of election, and the loan shall not be
made unless two-thirds of all the votes polled at such election
shall be given in the affirmative."
"By an act approved January 8th, 1851, the act of incorporation was "so amended as to empower the City Council to levy
annually a special tax to pay interest on such loans as are authorized by the 27th section of said act."

An act approved January 28th, 1857, contains these pro.
visions:
"That the city of Dubuque is hereby authorized and empow.

Dec. 1863.]

GELPCKE V. CITY OF IDUBUQUE.

203

Opinion of the court.

ered to aid in the construction of the Dubuque Western and the
Dubuque, St. Peter's & St. Paul Railroad Companies, by issuing
$250,000 of city bonds to each, in pursuauce of a vote of the citi.
zens of said city, taken in the month of December, A. D. 1856.
Said bonds shall be legal and valid, and the City Council is authorized and required to levy a special tax to meet the principal and interest of said bonds, in case it shall become necessary
from the failure of funds from other sources."
"The proclaniation, the vote, and bonds issued or to be issued,
are hereby declared valid, and the said railroad companies are
hereby authorized to expend the money arising from the sale of
said bonds, without the limits of the city and county of Dubuque, in the construction of either of said roads, and neither
the city of Dubuque, nor any of the citizens, shall ever be allowed
to plead that said bonds are invalid."
By these enactments, if they are valid, ample authority was
given to the city to issue the bonds in question. The city
acted upon this authority. The qualifications coupled with
the grant of power contained in the 27th section of the act
of incorporation are not now in question. If they were, the
result would be the same. When a corporation has power,
under any circumstances, to issue negotiable securities, the
bond fide holder has a right to presume they were issued
under the circumstances which give the requisite authority,
and they are no more liable to be impeached for any infirmity in the hands of such a holder than any other commercial
paper.* If there were any irregularity in taking the votes
of the electors or otherwise in issuing the bonds, it is remedied by the curative provisions of the act of January 28,

1857.
Where there is no defect of constitutional power, such
legislation, in cases like this, is valid. This question, with
reference to a statute containing similar provisions, came
* Commissioners of Knox Co. v. Aspinwall, 21 Howard, 539; Royal
British Bank v. Turquand, 6 Ellis & Blackburne, 327; Farmers, Land & T
v. Curtis, 3 Selden, 466; Stoney v. A. L. I. Co. 11 Paige, 635; Morris Canal
& B. Co. v. Fisher, 1 Stockton's Chancery, 667; Willmarth v. Crawford, 1'
Wendell, 343; Alleghany City v. M Clurkan, 14 Pennsylvania State, 83

GELPCKE V. CITY OF DUBUQUE.

[Sup. Ct,.

Opinion of the court.

under the consideration of the Supreme Court of Iowa, in
Xclffillen v. Boyles,* and again in MccMillen et al. v. Te County
JAdge and Treasurerof Lee County.t The validity of the act
was sustained. Without these rulings we shoulA entertain
no doubt upon the subject.
It is claimed "that the legislature of Iowa had no authority under the Constitution to authorize municipal corporations to purchase stock in railroad companies, or to issue
bonds in payment of such stock." In this connection our
attention has been called to the following provisions of the
Constitution of the State:
"ART. 1. § 6. All laws of a general nature shall have a uniform
operation."
"ART. 8. § 1. The legislative authority of the State shall be
vested in a Senate and House of Representatives, which shall be
designated as the General Assembly of the State of Iowa," &c.
"ART. 7. The General Assembly shall not in any manner
create any debt or debts, liability or liabilities which shall, singly or in the aggregate, exceed the sum of one hundred thousand dollars, except," &c. The exceptions stated do not relate
to this case.
"ART. 8. § 2. Corporations shall not be created in this State by
special laws, except for politicalor municipal purposes,but the General Assembly shall provide by general laws for the organization
of all other corporations, except corporations with banking privileges, the creation of which is prohibited. The stockholders
shall be subject to such liabilities and restrictions as shall be
provided by law. The State shall not, directly or indirectly,
become a stockholder in any corporation."
Under these provisions it is insisted,1. That the general grant of power to the legislature did
not warrant it in conferring upon municipal corporations
the power which was exercised by the city of Dubuque in
this case.
t Id., 391.
6 Iowa, 805.
W
Wilkinson v. Leland, 2 Peters, 627; Satterlee v. Matthewson, 2 Id.,
380; Baltimore & S. R. Co. v. Nesbit et al., 10 Howard, 895; Whitewater
Valley Canal Co. v. Yaliette, 21 Id., 425.

Dec. 1863.]

GELPCKE V. CiTY oF DuBuQUE.
Opinion of the court.

2. That the seveith article of the Constitution prohibits the
conferring of such power under the circumstances stated in
the answer,-debts of counties and cities being, within the
meaning of the Constitution, debts of the State.
8. That the eighth article forbids the conferring of such
power upon municipal corporations by special laws.
All these objections have been fully considered and repeatedly overruled by the Supreme Court of Iowa: Dubuque
Co. v. The -Dubuque . Pacific .R.B. Co. (4 Greene, 1) ; The
State v. Bissel (4 Id., 328); Clapp v. Cedar Co. (5 Iowa, 15);
.Bingv. County of Johnson (6 Id., 265); .A1iklillen v. Boyles (6
Id., 304); McMillen v. The County Judge of Lee Co. (6 Id.,
393); Games v. Robb (8 Id., 193); State v. The Board of
Equalizationof the County of Johnson (10 Id., 157). The earliest of these cases was decided in 1853, the latest in 1859.
The bonds were issued and put upon the market between
the periods named. These adjudications cover the entire
ground of this controversy. They exhaust the argument
upon the subject. We could add nothing to what they contain. We shall be governed by them, unless there be something which takes the case out of the established rule of this
court upon that subject.
It is urged that all these decisions have been overruled
by the Supreme Court of the State, in the later case of the
State of Iowa, ex relatione,v. The County of Wapello,* and it is
insisted that in cases involving the construction of a State
law or constitution, this court is bound to follow the latest
adjudication of the highest court of the State. Lefingwell
v. Warrent is relied upon as authority for the proposition.
In that case this court said it would follow "the latest settled
adjudications." Whether the judgment in question can,
under the circumstances, be deemed .to come within that
category, it is not now necessary to determine. It cannot be
expected that this court will follow every such oscillation,
from whatever cause arising, that may possibly occur. The
earlier decisions, we think, are sustained by reason and au.
* 13 Iowa, 893.

t 2 Black, 599.

GELPCKE V. CITY OF DUBUQUE.

[Sup. CL

Opinion of the court.

thority. They are in harmony with the adjudication, of
sixteen States of the Union. Many of the cases in the other
States are marked by the profoundest legal ability.
The late case in Iowa, and two other cases of a kindred
character in another State, also overruling earlier adjudications, stand out, as far as we are advised, in unenviable solitude and notoriety. However we may regard the late case
in Iowa as affecting the future, it can have no effect upon
the past. "The sound and true rule is, that if the contract,
when made, was valid by the laws of the State as then expounded by all departments of the government, and administered in its courts of justice, its validity and obligation
cannot be impaired by any subsequent action of legislation,
or decision of its courts altering the construction of the
law."*
The same principle applies where there is a change of
judicial decision as to the constitutional power of the legislature to enact the law. To this rule, thus enlarged, we adhere. It is the law of this court. It rests upon the plainest
principles of justice. To hold otherwise would be as unjust
as to hold that rights acquired under a statute may be lost
by its repeal. The rule embraces this case.
Bonds and coupons, like these, by universal commercial
usage and consent, have all the qualities of commercial
paper. If the plaintiffs recover in this case, they will be
entitled to the amount specified in the coupons, With interest and exchange as claimed.t
We are not unmindful of the importance of uniformity
in the decisions of this court, and those of the highest local
courts, giving constructions to the laws and constitutions of
their own States. It is the settled rule of this court in such
cases, to follow the decisions of the State courts. But there
havo been heretofore, in the judicial history of this court,
as doubtless there will be hereafter, many exceptional cases.
W shall never immolate truth, justice, and the law, because
* The Ohio Life & Trust Co. v. Debolt, 16 Howard, 432.

White v. The V. & M. R. R. Co., 21 Howard, 575; Commissioners of
tle County of Knox v. Aspinwall et al., 21 Id., 539.

Dec. 1863.]

GELPCKE V. CITY or DUBUQUE.

207

Opinion of Miller, J., dissenting.

a State tribunal has erected the altar @nd decreed the sacr!fice.
The judgment below is reversed, and the cause remanded
for further proceedings in conformity to this opinion.
JUDGMENT AND MANDATE ACC0RDINGLY.

Mr. Justice MILLER, dissenting:
In the opinions which have just been delivered, I have
not been able to concur. But I should have contented myself with the mere expression of dissent, if it were not that
the principle on which the court rests its decision is one,
not only essentially wrong, in my judgment, but one which,
if steadily adhered to in future, may lead to consequences
of the most serious character. In adopting that principle,
this court has, as I shall attempt to show, gone in the present case a step in advance of anything heretofore ruled by
it on the subject, and has taken a position which must bring
it into direct and unseemly. conflict with the judiciary of the
States. Under these circumstances, I do not feel at liberty
to decline placing upon the records of tle court the reasons
which have forced me, however reluctantly, to a conclusion
different from that of the other members of the court.
The action in the present case is on bonds of the city of
Dubuque, given in payment of certain shares of the capital
stock of a railroad company, whose road runs from said city
westward. The court below held, that the bonds were void
for want of authority in the city to subscribe and pay for
such stock. It is admitted that the legislature had, as to one
set of bonds, passed an act intended to confer such authority
on the city, and it is claimed that it had done so as to all the
bonds. I do not propose to discuss this latter question.
It is said, in support of the judgment of the court below,
that all such grants of power by the legislature of Iowa to
any municipal corporation is in conflict with the Constitution
of the State, and therefore void. In support of this view of
the subject, the cases of Stokes v. Scott County,* and The State
of Iowa, ex relatione, v. The County of Wapello,t are relied on.
* 10 Iowa, 166.

t 13 Id., 898.

GELP OKE V. CITY OF DUBUQUE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Miller, J., dissenting.

In the last-mentioned case, the County of Wapello htd
agreed to take stock in a company whose road passed
through the co:nty, but had afterwards refused to issue the
bonds which had been voted by the majority of the legal
voters. The relator prayed a writ of mandamus to compel
the officers of the county to issue the bonds. One question
raised in the discussion was, whether section 114 of the code
of Iowa., of 1851, was intended to authorize the counties of
the State to take stock in railroad companies? And another
was, that conceding such to be the fair construction of that
section of the code, was it constitutional ?
The Supreme Court, in a very elaborate and well-reasoned
opinion, held that there was no constitutional power in the
legislature to confer such authority onl the counties, or on
any municipal corporation. This decision was made in a
case where the question fairly arose, and where it was necessary and proper that the court should decide it. It was decided by a full bench, and with unanimity. It was decided
by the court of highest resort in that State, to which is con.
fided, according to all the authorities, the rigbT to construe
the Constitution of the State, and whose decision is binding
on all other courts which may have occasion to consider the
same question, until it is reversed or modified by the same
court. It has been followed in that court by several other
decisions to the same point, not yet reported. It is the law
administered by all the inferior judicial tribunals in the State,
who are bound by it beyond all question. I apprehend that
none of my brethren who concur in the opinion just de
livered, would go so far as to say that the inferior State
courts would have a right to disregard the decision of their
own appellate court, and give judgment that the bonds were
valid. Such a course would be as useless, as it would be
destructive of all judicial subordination.
Yet this is in substance what the majority of the court
have decided.
They have said to the Federal court sitting in Iowa, "You
shall disregard this decision of the highest court of the State
on this question. Although you are sitting in the State of

Dec. 1863.]

GELPCKE V. CITY OF DUBUQUe.

209

Opinion of Miller, J., dissenting.

Iowa, and administering her laws, and.cous-iing her censtitution, you shall not follow the latest, though it be the
soundest, exposition of its constitution by the Supreme Court
of that State, but you shall decide directly to the contrary;
and where that court has said that a statute is unconstitutional, you shall say that it is constitutional When it says
bonds are void, issued in that State, because they violate its
constitution, you shall say they are valid, because they do not
violate the constitution.'"
Thus we. are to have two courts, sitting within the same
jurisdiction, deciding upon the same rights, arising out of the
same statute, yet always arriving at opposite results, with no
common arbiter of their differences. There is no hope of
avoiding this, if this court adheres to its ruling. For there is
in this court no power, in this class of cases, to issue its writ
of error to the State court, and thus compel a uniformity of
construction, because it is not pretended that either the statute of Iowa, or its constitution, or the decision of its courts
thereon, are in conflict with the Constitution of the United
States, or any law or treaty made under it.
Is it supposed for a moment that this treatment of its decision, accompanied by language as unsuited to the dispassionate dignity of this court, as it is disrespectful to anotheT.
court of at least concurrent jurisdiction over the matter iu
question, will induce the Supreme Court of Iowa to conform
its rulings to suit our dictation, in a matter which the very
frame and organization of our Government places entirely
under its control? On the contrary, such a course, pursued
by this court, is well calculated to make that court not only
adhere to its own opinion with more tenacity,.but also to
examine if the law does not afford them the means, in all
eases, of enforcing their own construction of their own constitution, and their own statutes, within the limits of their
own jurisdiction. What this may lead to it is not possible
now tr. Ibresee, nor do I wish to point out the field of judicial conflicts, which may never occur, bit.which if they shall
occur, will weigh heavily on that court which should have
yielded to the other, but did not
VOL. 1.

14

GELPCKE V. CITY OF DUBUQUE.

[Sup. t

Opinion of Miller, J., dissenting.

The general principle is not controverted by the majority,
that to the highest courts of the State belongs the right to construe its statutes and its constitution, except where they may
conflict with the Constitution of the United States, or some
statute or treaty made under it. Nor is it denied that when
such a construction has been given by the State court, that this
court is bound to follow it. The cases on this subject are numerous, and the principle is as well settled, and is as necessary to the harmonious working of our complex system of
government, as the correlative proposition that to this court
belongs the right to expound conclusively, for all other courts,
the Constitution and laws of the Federal Government.*
But while admitting the general principle thus laid down,
the court says it is inapplicable to the present case, because
there have been conflicting decisions on this very point by the
Supreme Court of Iowa, and that as thq bonds issued while
the decisions of that court holding such instruments to be
constitutional were unreversed, that this construction of the
constitution must now govern this court instead of the later
one. The moral force of this proposition is unquestionably
very great. And I think, taken in connection with some fancied duty of this court to enforce contracts, over and beyond
that appertaining to other courts, has given the majority a
leaning towards the adoption of a rule, which in my opinion
cannot be sustained either on principle or authority.
The only special charge which this court has over contracts,
beyond any other court, is to declare judicially whether the
statute of a State impairs their obligation. :No such question
arises here, for the plaintiff claims under and by virtue of
the statute which is here the subject of discussion. Neither
is there any question of the obligation of contracts, or the
ight to enforce them. The question goes behind that. We
are called upon, not to. construe a contract, nor to determine
how one shall be enforced, but to decide whether there ever
* See Shelby v. Guy, 11 Wheaton, 361; McCluny v. Silliman, 3 Peters,
277; Van Rensselaer v. Kearney, 11 Howard, 247; Webster v. Cooper, 14
Id., 504; Elmendorf v. Taylor, 10 Wheaton, 152; The Bank v. Dudley, 2
Peters, 492.

Dec. 1863.]

GELPCKE V. CITY OF DUBUQUE.

Opinion of Miller, J., dissenting.

was a contract made in the ease. To assume that there was
a contract, which contract is about to be violated by the decisions of the State court of Iowa, is to beg the very question
in dispute. In deciding this question the court is called
upon, as the court in Iowa was, to construe the constitution
of the State. It is a grave error to suppose that this court.
must, or should, determine this upon any principle which
would not be equally binding on the courts of Iowa, or that
the decision should depend upon the fact that certain parties
had purchased bonds which were supposed to be valid contracts, when they really were not.
The Supreme Court of Iowa is not the first or the only
court which has changed its rulings on questions as important as the one now presented. I understand the doctrine'
-to be in such cases, not that the law is changed, but that it
was always the same as expounded by the later decision, and
that the former decision was not, and never had been, the
law, and is overruled for that very reason. The decision of
this court contravenes this principle, and holds that the decision of the court makes the law, and in fact, that the same
statute or constitution means one thing in 1853, and another
thing in 1859. For it is impliedly conceded, that if these
bonds had been issued since the more recent decision of the
Iowa court, this court would not hold them valid.
Not only is the decision of the court, as I think, thus unsound in principle, but it appears to me to be in conflict with
its former decisions on this point, as I shall now attempt to
show.
In the case of Slelby v. Guy,* a question arose on the construction of the statute of limitations of Tennessee. It was
an old English statute, adopted by Tennessee fi6m North
Carolina, and which had in many other States received a
uniform construction. It was stated on the argument, however, that the highest court of Tennessee had given a different construction to it, although the opinion could not then:
be produced. The court said, that out of a desire to follow
11 Wheaton, 361.

GELPCKE V.

CITY

OF DUBUQUE.

[Sup. C-t

Opinion of Miller, J., dissenting.

the courts of the State in the construction of their own statute, it would not then decide that question, but as the case
had to be reversed on other points, it would send it back,
leaving that question undecided.
In the case of The United States v. Xlorrison,* the question
was, whether a judgment in the State of Virginia was, under
the circumstances of that case, a lien on the real estate of the
judgment debtor. In the Circuit Court this had been ruled
in the negative, I presume by Chief Justice Marshall, and a
writ of error was prosecuted to this court. Between the time
of the decision in the Circuit Court and the hearing in this
court, the 0 nurt of Appeals of Virginia had decided, in a case
precisely similar, that the judgment was a lien. This court,
by Chief Justice Marshall, said it would follow the recent
decision of the Court of Appeals without examination, although it required the reversal of a judgment in the Circuit
Court rendered before that decision was made.
The case of Green v. N7Vealt is almost parallel with the one
now under consideration, but stronger in the circumstances
under which the court followed the later decision of the State
courts in the construction of their own statute. It is stronger
in this, that the court there overruled two former decisions
of its own, based upon former decisions of the State court
of Tennessee, in order to follow a later decision of the State
court, after the law had been supposed to be settled for many
years. The case was one on the construction of the statute
of limitations, and the Circuit Court at the trial had instructed
the jury, "that according to the present state of decisions in
the Supreme Court of the United States, they could not
charge that defendant's title was made good by the statute
of limitations." The decisions here referred to were the
cases of Patton v. Baston,t and Powell v. HTarnan.§
The first of these ca-es was argued in the February Term,
1815, by some of the ablest counsel of the day, and the opinion delivered more than a year afterwards. In that opinion
$ 1 Wheaton, 476.
t 6 Id., 291.
2 Peters, 241; erroneously cited in Green v. Neal, 6 Id., 291, as Powell
v. breen. REP.
* 4 Peters, 124.

Dec. 1863.]

GELPC-E V. CiTY oF DUBUQUE.

213

Opinion of Miller, J., dissenting.

Chief Justice Marshall recites the long dispute about the
point in North Carolina and Tennessee, and says it has at
length been settled by the Supreme Court of the latter State
by two recent decisions, made after the case then before it
had been certified to this court, and the court follows those
decisions. This is reaffirmed in the second of the abovementioned cases.
In delivering the opinion in the case of Green v. Neal, Justice McLean says that the two decisions in Tennessee referred to by Judge Marshall were made under such circumstances that they were never considered as fully settling the
point in that State, there being contrariety of opinion among the
judges. The question, he says, was frequently raised before
the Supreme Court of Tennessee, but was never considered
as finally settled, until 1825, the first decision having been
made in 1815. The opinion of Judge McLean is long, and
the case is presented with his usual ability, and I will not
here go into further details of it. It is sufficient to say that
the court holds it to be its duty to abandon the two first cases
decided in Tennessee, to overrule their own well-considered
construction in the case of Pattonv. Easton, and its repetition
in Powell v. Green, -and to follow without examination the
later decision of the Supreme Court of Tennessee, which is
in conflict with them all.
At the last term of this court, in the case of Leffingwell v.
Warren,* my very learned associate, who has just delivered
the opinion in this case, has collated the authorities on this
subject, and thus on behalf of the whole court announces the
result:
"The construction given to a State statute by the highest
judicial tribunal of such State, is regarded as a part of the
statute, and is as binding upon the courts of the United States
as the text .... If the highest judicial tribunal of a State

adopt new views as to the proper construction of such a statute, and reverse its former decision, this court will follow
the latest settled adjudications."t
* 2 Black, 599.

t United States r. Morrison, 4 Peters, 124; Green r. Neal, 6 Id., 291.

GELPCKE V. CiTY OF DUBUQUE.

[Sul). CL.

Opinion of Miller, J., dissenting.

It is attempted, however, to distinguish the case now before us from those just considered, by saying that the latter
relate to what is rather ambiguously called a rule of property,
while the former concerns a matter of contract. I must confess my inability to see any principle on which the distinc.
tion can rest. All the statutes of the States which prescribe
the formalities and incidents to conveyances of real estate
would, I presume, be held to be rules of property. If the
deed by which a man supposes he has secured to himself and
family a homestead, fails to comply in any essential particular with the statute or constitution of the State, as expounded
by the most recent decision of the State court, it is held void
by this court without hesitation, because it is a rule of property, and the last decision of the State court must govern,
even to overturning the well-considered construction of this
court. But if a gambling stockbroker of Wall Street buys at
twenty-five per cent. of their par value, the bonds issued to
a railroad company in Iowa, although the court of the State,
in several of its most recent decisions, have decided that such
bonds were issued in violation of the Constitution, this court
will not follow that decision, but resort to some former one,

delivered by a divided court, because in the latter case it is
not a rule of property, but a case of contract. I cannot rid
myse]f of the conviction that the deed which conveys to a
man his homestead, or other real estate, is as much a contract as the paper issued by a municipal corporation to a railroad for its worthless stock, and that a bond when good and
valid is property. If bonds are not property, then half the
wealth of the nation, now so liberally invested in the bonds
of the government, both State and national, and in bonds of
corporations, must be considered as having no claim to be
called property. And when the construction of a constitution
is brought to bear upon the questions of property or no property, contract or no contract, I can see no sound reason for
any difference in the rule for determining the question.
The case of Rowan v. 1unnels,* is relied on as furnising
*

5 Howard, 134.

Dec. 1863.]

GELPCKE V. OITY

op DUBUQUE.

Opinion of Miller, J., dissenting.

a rule for this case, and support to the opinion of the court.
In that case the question was on the validity of a note given
for the purchase of slaves, imported into the State of Mississippi. It was claimed that the importation was a violation
of the Constitution of the State, and the not therefore void.
In the case of Groves v. Slaughter,* this court had previousl3
decided that very point the other way. In making that de.
cision it had no light from the courts of Mississippi, but was
called on to make a decision in a case of the first impression.
The court made a decision, with which it remained satisfied
when Bowan v. -Runnelscame before it, and which is averred
by the court to have been in conformity to the expressed
sense of the legislature, and the general understanding of the
people of that State. The court therefore in -Rowanv. Runnels
declined to change its own rulings, under such circumstances,
to follow a single later and adverse decision of the Mississippi
court.
In the case now before the court it is not called on to retract any decision it has ever made, or any opinion it has
declared. The question is before this court for the first time,
and it lacks in that particular the main ground on which the
judgment of this court rested in Bowan v. 1unnels. It is
true that the chief justice, in delivering the opinion in that
case, goes on to say, in speaking of the decision of the State
courts on their own constitution and laws: "But we ought
not to give them a retroactive effect, and allow them to
render invalid contracts entered into with citizens of other States,
which, in thejudgment of this court, were lawfully made." I
have to re*mark, in the first place, that this dictum was unnecessary, as the first and main ground' was, that this court
could not be required to overrule its own decision, when it
had first occupied the ground, and when it still remained of
the opinion then declared. Secondly, that the contract in
.Rowanv. Bunnels, was between a citizen of Mississippi, on
the one part, and a citizen of Virginia on the other, and the
language of the chief justice makes that the ground of the
* 15 Peters, 449.

GELPCKE V. CITY OF DTUBUQUE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Miller, J., dissenting..

right of this court to disregard the later decision of the State
court; and in this case the contract was made between the
city of Dubuque and a railroad company, both of which were
corporations existing under the laws of Iowa, and citizens
of that State, i the sense in which that word is used by the
chief justice. And, thirdly, the qualification is used in the
Runnels case that the "contracts were, in the judgment of this
court, lawfully made." In the present case, the court rests on
the former decision of the State court, declining to examine
the constitutional question for itself.
The distinction between the cases is so obvious as to need
no further illustration.
The remaining cases in which the subject is spoken of,
may be mentioned as a series of cases brought into the Supreme Court of the United States by writ of error to the
Supreme Court of Ohio, under the twenty-fiftih section of
the Judiciary Act. In all these cases the jurisdiction of the
Supreme Court of the United States was based upon the
allegation that a statute of Ohio, imposing taxes upon bank
corporations, was a violation of a previous contract made by
the State with them, in regard to the extent to which they
should be liable to be taxed. In the argument of these cases
it was urged that the very judgments of the Supreme Court
of Ohio, which were then under review, being the construction placed by the courts of that State on their own statutes
and constitution, should be held to govern the Supreme Court
of the Union, in the exercise of its acknowledged right of
revising the decision of the State court in that class of cases.
It requires but a bare statement of the proposition to show
that, if admitted, the jurisdiction of the Federal Supreme
Court to sit as a revisory tribunal over the State courts, in
cases where the State law is supposed to impair the obligation of a contract, would be the merest sham.
It is true that in the extract, given in the opinion of the
court just read, from the case of the Ohio Trust Gomp.any v.
-Debolt, language is used by Chief Justice Taney, susceptible
of a wider application. But he clearly shows that there was
in his mind nothing beyond the case of a writ of error to

Dec. 1863.]

(, 1ELPCKE

v. CITY OF DUBUQUE.

217

Opinion of Miller, J., dissenting.

the Supreme Court of a State, for he says in the midst of tb
sentence cited, or in the immediate context, "The writ of
error to a State court would be no protection to a contract,
if we were bound to follow the judgment which the State
court had given, and which the court brings up here for revision." Besides, in the opinion thus cited, the chief justice
says, in the ccmmencement of it, that he only speaks for
himself and Justice Grier. The remarks cited, then, were
not the opinion of the court, were outside the record, and
were evidently intended to be confined to the case of a writ
of error to the court of a State, where it was insisted that the
judgment sought to be revised should conclude this court.
But let us examine for a moment the earlier decisions in
the State court of Iowa, on which this court rests with such
entire satisfaction.
The question of the right of municipal corporations to take
stock in railroad companies, came before the Supreme Court
of Iowa, for the first time, at the June Term, .A.D. 1853, in
the case of -Dubuque County v. The -Dubuqueand Pacific .Railroad(ompany.* The majority of the court, Kinney J., dissenting, affirmed the judgment of the court below, and inso doing
must necessarily have held that municipal corporations could
take stock in railroad enterprises. The opinions of the
court were by law filed with the clerk, and by him copied
into a book kept for that purpose. The dissenting opinion
of Judge Kinney, a very able one, is there found in its pro.
per place, in which he says, he has never seen the opinion
of the majority. 1o such opinion is to be found in the
clerk's office, as I have verified by a personal examination.
Nor was it ever seen, until it was published five years afterwards, in the volume above referred to, by one of the judges.
who had ceased to be either judge or official reporter at the
time it was published. Shortly after this judgment was rendered. Judge Kinney resigned, and his place was supplied
oy Judge Ral.. The case of the State v. Bissellt then came
before the court in 1854. In this case, after disposing of
*4 G. Greene, 1.

f 4 Id., 3 8.

GELPCKE V. CITY OF DUBUQUE.

[Sup. ,

Opinion of Miller, J., dissenting.

several questions relating to the regularity of the proceedings
in issuing bonds for a railroad subscription, Judge Hall, who
delivered the opinion of the court, then refers to the right
of the county to take stock and issue bonds for railroad purposes. He says: "This point is not urged, and the same
question having been decided at the December Term of this
court in 1853, in the case of the Dubuque and Pacific Railroad Company v. Dubuque County, is not examined. This decision is not intended to sanction or deny the legal validity
of that decision, but to leave the question where that decision left it." It is clear that if Judge Hall had concurred
with the other two judges, no such language as this would
have been used, but they would have settled the question by
a unanimous opinion. In the case of Clappv. Cedar County,*
the question came up again in the same court, composed of
new judges. The Chief Justice, Wright, was against the
power of the counties to subscribe stock, and delivered an
able dissenting opinion to that purport. The other two
judges, however, while in substance admitting that no such
power had been conferred by law, held that they must follow
the decision in the Dubuque case. Several other cases followed these, with about the same result, up to 1859, Wright
always protesting, and the other judges overruling him. In
1859, in the case of Stokes v. Scott County,t which was an application to restrain the issue of bonds voted by the county,
Judge Stockton said that, in a case like that, where the bonds
had not passed into the hands of bonafide holders, he felt at
liberty to declare them void, and concurring with Judge
Wright that far, they so decided; Judge Wright placing
his opinioL upon a want of constitutional power in the legislature. Finally, in the case of the State of Iowa, ex relatione,
v. Wapello County, the court, now composed of Wright, Lowe,
and Baldwin, held unanimously that the bonds were void absolutely, because their issue was in violation of the Constitu.
tion of the State of Iowa. The opinion in that case, de.
livered by Judge Lowe, covers the whole ground, and after
* 5 Iowa, 15.

t- 10 Id., 166.

Dec. 1863.]

GELPCKE V. CITY OF DUBUQUE.
Opinion of Miller, J., dissenting.

an examination of all the previous cases, overrules them all,
except Stokes v. Scott County. It is exhausting, able, and conclusive, and after a struggle of seven or eight years, in which
this question has been always before the court, and never
considered as closed, this case may now be considered as
finally settling the law on that subject in the courts of Iowa.
It has already been repeated in several cases not yet reported.
It is the first time the question has been decided by a unamnmous court. It is altogether improbable that any serious
effort will ever be made to shake its force in that State; for
of the nine judges who have occupied the bench while the
matter was in contest, but two have ever expressed their
approbation of the doctrine of the Dubuque County case.
Comparing the course of decisions of the State courts in
the present case with those upon which this court acted in
Green v. Nea,* how dci they stand?
In the latter case the court of Tennessee had decided by a
divided court in 1815, and that decision was repeated several
times, but with contrariety of opinion among the judges, up
to 1825, when the former decisions were reversed. In the
cases which we have been considering from Iowa, the point
was decided in 1853 by a divided court; it was repeated
several times up to 1859, by a divided court, under a continuous struggle. In 1859 the majority changed to the other
side, and in 1862 it became unanimous. In the Tennessee
case, this court had twice committed itself to the decision
first made by the courts of that State; yet it retracted and
followed the later decision made ten years after. In the
present case, this court, which was not committed at all, follows decisions which were never unanimous, which were
struggled against and denied, and which had only six years
of judicial life, in preference to the later decisions commenced four years ago, and finally receiving the full assent
of'the entire court.
I think I have sustained, by this examination of the cases,
the assertion made in the. commencement of this opinion,
* 6 Peters, 291.

2.0

GELPOKE V. CITY OF DUBUQUE.

[Sup.CI

Statement of the case.

that the court has, in this case, taken a step in advance of
anything heretofore decided by it on this subject. That advance is in the direction of a usurpation of the light, which
belongs to the State courts, to decide as a finality upon the
construction of State constitutions and State statutes. This
:nvasion is made in a case where there is no pretence that
the constitution, as thus construed, is any infraction of the
laws or Constitution of the United States.
The importance of the principle thus for the first time
asserted by this court, opposed, as it is, to my profoundest
convictions of the relative rights, duties, and comities of this
court, and the State courts, will, I am persuaded, be received
as a sufficient apology for placing on its record, as I now do,
my protest against it.
NOTE.

At the same time with the preceding and principal case,
No. 80 of the term, two other cases between the same partiesone being No. 79, and the other No. 81-were disposed of.
They were thus:
SAMF v. SAME.

No. 81.
al
A statute which enacts that whenever any railroad company "sh l have
received or may hereafter receive the bonds of any city or county upon
subscriptions of stock by such city or county, such bonds may bear an
interest" at a rate specified, and "may be sold by the company," in a
way mentioned,-implies that a city (whose charter gave it power t.
borrow money for public purposes), had power to subscribe to the stock
and to issue its bonds in payment, and makes the subscription and
bonds as valid as if authorized by the statute directly.

THIS suit differed from 80-the principal one-only in the fact
that the bonds of the city, which in this case bore date 1st September, 1855, were issued prior to the passage of the act of 28th
January, 1857, specially authorizing the city to subscribe to the
railroads for which the bonds in No. 80 had been sub.cquently
given. The bonds rested in this case (INo. 81), thereibreon the
charter of the city (approved February 24, 1847), authorizing it
"to borrow money fbr public purposes," and on an act passed
25th January, 1855, before the bonds were issued, oe section of

Pec. i863.]

GELPCKE V. CITY OF DUBUQUE.

Statement of the case.

which enacted that whenever "any companyshall have received.
or may hereafter receive, the bonds of any city or county upon
subscription of stock by such city or county, such bonds may
bear an interest at a rate not exceeding ten percent., and may be
sold by the company at such discount as may be deemed expedient," and which enacted also (§ 3), that "the provisions of
this act shall apply to any railroad bonds which have been heretofore issued, as well as to those which may hereafter be issued."
Mr. JUSTICE SWAYNE, after stating the difference between the

case and No. 80, and quoting this act, thus delivered the opinion
of the court:
"In this act it is clearly implied that cities have authority to
subscribe for railroad stock, and to issue their bonds in payment
9f it. What is implied in a statute is as much a part of it as
what is expressed. (United States v. Babbitt, 1 Black, 61.) Considering the subject in the light of these acts, we entertain no
doubt that the city possessed the power to issue these bonds.'
JUDGMENT REVERSED AND CASE REMANDED.

SAME V. SAME.
No. 79.

1. Where some parts of a contract are illegal while others are legal, the
legal may be separated from the illegal, if there be no imputation of
mialum inme; and if the good part show a suffcient cause of action, it is
error to sustain demurrer to the whole.
2. Where suit is brought on a contract made by a city, where the laws regulating it require the consent of two-thirds of its electors to validate debts
for borrowed money, such consent need not be averred on the plaintiff's
part. If with such sanction the debt would be obligatory, the sanction will, primarily, be presumed. Its non-existence, if it does not
exist, is matter of defence, to be shown by the defendant.
8. A contract made by a city to pay a sum of money with interest to a
person who has assumed the payment of interest on some of the city's
debt,-as well interest to become due, as interest already due-is not a
"borrowing of money," but is a contract for the payment of a debt;
and, as the last, will be sustained, when, if the former, it might fall
within prohibitions against the city's borrowing money except on
certain terms.
THIS suit differed both from the principal and from the preceding case in that it was not upon bonds issued upon the city, but was
upon an instrument of writing by which the mayor and recorder

GELPCKE V. CITY Op DUBUQUE.

[Sup. oL

Opinion of the court.
of the city had entered (Feb. 7, 1859) into a contract with the
same Gelpcke and others, that if they, Gelpeke and others, would
pay or advance the interest due on various bonds already issued
by the city (part of the interest then due, and part to become due),
and would advance a certain sum of money to enable the city to
pay various pressing pecuniary demands upon it, the city "covenants that its city council shall by ordinance require" a certain tax,
to be appropriated for the payment of this deift, and that it
will convey unto F. S. W., as trustee, all its realestate, of whatsoever
nature the same may be (excepting that appropriated to public
uses), in trust for payment of the debt. To the suit on this contract the city put in three demurrers. Two of them related to
these or other provisions of the contract; "a contract," each demurrer alleged, "the city had no authority to make." The third
one was founded on the provision of the 27th section of the
charter (see ante, p. 176), and was because the petition did not
show that the proposition to borrow money had first passed the
city council, nor that it had been submitted to vote, nor that it
had been adopted by two-thirds of the qualified voters of the
city. The court below sustained the demurrers, and gave judgment for the city; which on error here was the point brought
up. No argument was made on the first two demurrers. The
third one was argued in No. 80.
Mr. JUSTICE SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court:
The counsel of the plaintiffs in error have submitted no argument in regard to the two first causes assigned for the demurrer.
We have not therefore considered the questions which they present. They relate to certain provisions of the contract which
are claimed to be invalid. Conceding this to be so, they are
clearly separable and severable from the other parts which aro
relied upon. The rule in such cases, where there is no imputation of malum in se is, that the bad parts do not affect the good.
The valid may be enforced.* That part of the complaint only
whiLh relates to the stipulations claimed to be valid will be considered. The residue of the complaint may be laid out of view
as surplusage. The demurrer is to the whole complaint. If the
part to be considered shows a sufficient cause of action, the court
below should have overruled the demurrer.
* United States v. Bradley, 10 Peters, 360.

Dec. 1863.]

BALDWIN

V.

HALE.

223

Statement of the ase.
I. It is claimedthat the contract is for the borrowing of money,
and that the complaint is bad, because it does not aver the sanction of two-thirds of the electors of the city. If the fact were
so, the consequence would not follow. If the city could make
such a contract with that sanction, the sanction will be presumed
until the contrary is shown. The non-existence of the fact is a
matter of defence which must be shown by the defendant.
ii. We are also of the opinion that the contract, except the
provision for an advance to the city of $20,000, which it is stated
has been repaid, is not for borrowing money. It bound the
plaintiffs to pay the interest for the city upon the debts of the
city already created and presumed to be valid. The city agreed
to refund the amount, so paid- at the times and in the manner
specified. Such a-contract is neither within the terms nor the
spirit of the provisions of the charter upon the subject of borrowing.
JUDGMENT REVERSED AND CAUSE REMANDED.

N. B. The dissenting opinion of Mr. Justice Miller, given in the principal
case, No. 80, applied to Nos. 79 and 81. See also the dissenting opinion of
that Justice in Aeyer v. City of Muscatine (p7 st), as well as that case generally.

BALDWIN V. HALE.
A discharge obtained under the insolvent law of one State is not a bar to an
action on a note given in and payable in the same State; the party to
whom the note was given having'been and being of a different State,
and not having proved his debt against the defendant's estate in insolvency, nor in any manner been a party to those proceedings.

THIS was a writ of error to the Circuit Court for the District of Massachusetts; the case, as appearing from an agreed
statement of facts, being thus:
J. W. Baldwin, a citizen of Massachusetts, made, at Boston, in that State, his promissory note, payable there, in these
words:
$2000.
BOsTON, February 21, 1854.
Six months after date I promise to pay to the order of myself, two
;housand dollars, payable in Boston, value received.
J. W. B.LDwix.
And duly indorsed it to Hale, the plaintiff, then and afterwards a citizen of Vermont. After the date of the note, but

