RESOLUTE AND IORTHERNER.

[Sup. t

Statement of the case.

"Answer. My recollection is that he brought with him each
time the same papers-that is, the petition; but the first time
without any map; the second time the petition and diseflo together. He might have come other times, but I only recollect
those two times."
Ortega testified to the same effect as to the disefio.
That both are mistaken upon the subject is shown by the
concession. In that instrument, which was given at the
second interview between them, A.lvarado says: " H e" (Ortega) "shall make a map as required by law, which he will
present opportunely." There was, then, no map present at
that time. When was it prepared and added to the other
papers? It is claimed, on behalf of the United States, that
it was made when the disefio of Miranda was prepared in
1844, and came into the hands of Ortega by some means
unexplained after his return from Oregon. Upon this subject, as in regard to the altered date of the concession, the
evidence is inconclusive and unsatisfactory. The obscurity
is increased by the character of some of the leading witnesses who have testified in support of theclaim. But the
solution of these difficulties is not necessary to the determination of the case. It has been held by this court, in a long
and unbroken line of adjudications, that where there is no
archive evidence, and its absence is unaccounted for, and
there has been no such possession as raises an equity in behalf of the party, and especially where, in addition, the expediente produced is tainted with suspicions of fraud, the claim
must be rejected. We feel no disposition to relax the rule,
and it is fatal to the case of the appellant.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

RESOLUTE Ah'D IORTHERNER.
The waters of Puget's Sound, in Washington Territory, were not within
the Rules and Regulations adopted 17th October, 1857, of the Supervising
Inspectors, appointed under the act of Congress of 30th August, 1852,
to be observed by vessels in passing each other.

CONGRESS, by act of August 30, 1852,* provided for the
* 10 Stat. at Large 70,

18.

Dec. 1863.1

RESOLUTE AND NORTHERNER.
Opinion of the court.

appointment of supervising inspectors of steamers and machinery; one of the duties of such inspectors being to establish rules and regulations to be observed by all vessels in
pas.Ing each other, and to assign the limits of territory within
which they should be obligatory. The inspectors accordingly met, and in 1857 established nine districts, defined
their limits, and adopted certain rules to govern vessels in
passing each other within them. On libel and cross-libel,
in admiralty, between a steamboat and steam-tug for collision, the chief question of law was, whether the waters of
.Puget's Sound, in Washington Territory, were within the
limits of any one of the nine districts established by the
supervising inspectors.
Mr. Justice CL]:FFORD delivered the opinion of the
court, on the point of law in the case, to this effect:
The Territory of Washington was established on the
second day of March, 1853. By the terms of the act, it embraces all that portion of Oregon Territory lying and being
south of the forty-ninth degree of north latitude, and north
of the middle of the main channel of the Columbia River
from its mouth to where the forty-sixth degree of north latitude crosses said river, thence with said forty-sixth degree
of latitude to the summit of the Rocky Mountains. Washington Territory was not included in any one of the nine
districts, as is obvious from the language employed. The
fourth district embraced the coast of California and Oregon,
and ill waters flowing into the Gulf of Mexico south and
west of Cape Sable and north of the Rio Grande, except
those of the Mississippi above Napoleon; but no mention
was made of the Territory of Washington, and there was no
other district which embraced any portion of the Pacific
coast. The testimony of witnesses examined in the case is
full to the point that no such rules and regulations were
known there, and that none such had been furnished by the
supervising inspectors, or any other public authority. Two
printed copies of such rules and regulations are required by
the act to be furnished to each of such vessels; and the

PARKER V. PRETTEPLACE.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

direction is, that they shall at all times be kept up in conspicuous places on such vessels, and be observed both night
and day. Congress did not make the rules or establish the
districts, but authorized both to be done by the supervising
inspectors. The rules and regulations adopted did not embrace the waters which the steam-tug was navigating, and
consequently she was not in fault in not having complied
with those rules and regulations. The limits of the fourth
district were amended in March, 1861, so as to embrace the
Pacific coast, with all the waters flowing into the same,
within the original boundaries of the district. Doubts are
entertained, however, whether the limits, as amended, included the Territory of Washington; but the regulations
adopted in December following provide that the first district
shall embrace all the waters. and rivers of the Pacific, which
remove all doubt upon the subject.
DECREES ACCORDINGLY.

PARKER V. PHETTEPLACE ET AL.

A question of fact arising upon a bill to set aside conveyances as made in
fraud of creditors, in which, though the court agreed that "there was
ground of suspicion," it gives weight to an answer positively denying
the facts and fraud charged; this answer being supported by the positive testimony of a witness, who, though not a defendant in the case,
was a principal actor in the transactions charged to be fraudulent.
MILL.XB, J., dissenting.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of Rhode
Island.
The complainants below, appellants here, filed a bill as
judgment creditors, to set aside conveyances of the property
of one Edward Seagrave, their debtor, and made, as they
alleged, to hinder and delay the execution of their judg-

