MEYER

v. THE CITY OF MUSCATINE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

collector to hold that, under the circumstances of the case,
he was not authorized to make the order complained of. If
the goods had passed beyond the reach of the collector, a
different question might have been presented. We express
no opinion upon such a case.
It has been argued that the reappraisal was not made by
the proper officers. The answer is, that, although the protest is quite voluminous, this objection is not specified. If
it had been, it doubtless would have been answered by the
proofs.
It is further argued, that the appraisal was not made as of
the market value of the principal markets of the country from
whence the wool was imported. The answer is, the appraisement is conclusive upon this fact, and the court cannot go
behind it. The remedy is an appeal by the importers to the
merchant appraisers.
It is further said, the date of the period of exportation
was not the time adopted by the appraisers in ascertaining
the dutiable value. This is a misapprehension.. The report
of the appraisers, indorsed on the invoice, confines the appraisal at date of exportation.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

MEYER V. THE CITY OF MUSCATINE.
1. Where a charter gives a city power to borrow monny for any object in
its discretion, and a statute of the State where thL city is enacted that
"bonds of any city" issued to railroad companies "may have interest
at any rate not exceeding" a rate named, and "may be sold by the
company at such discount as may be deemed expedient"-Ield, that
the city had power to issue bonds to aid the construction of railways;
even although the power to borrow, as given in the charter, was found
among powers of a nature strictly municipal; such, in fact,-except as,
under the decision now made, might respect the power to "borrow
money,"-being the only powers given in the charter at all. The statute, in connection with the power, gives the requisite authority.
MILLER, J., dissenting.
2. A city having power to borrow money, may make the principal and
interest payable where it pleases.

Dec. 1868.]

MEYER V. THE CITY OF MUSCATINE.

3851

Statement of the case.
3. *Where a statute fixes the rate of interest per annum, a contract may
lawfully be made for the payment of that rate, before the principal,
comes due, at periods shorter than a year.
4. The statute of Iowa, of January 25, 1855 (chap. 128), authorizes cities
in that State to give their bonds in payment of subscriptions to railroad
stock, and authorizes them to be sold at a price even greatly below their
par value. MILLER, J., dissenting from the doctrine as applied.
5 Where the votes of three hundred and twenty-six citizens were given
in favor of a municipal loan, and of five only against it, and the city
issued the bonds, no one interposing to prevent the issue, all parties
acting in good faith, the city cannot afterwards object to the regularity.
of the preliminary proceedings, and set up that the vote was not taken
in the form in which, under the charter, it ought to have been taken.
If the legal authority under which the agents of the city, hr issuingthe bonds, acted, was sufficiently comprehensive, a holder of them bond
fide and for value has a right to presume that all precedent necessary
requirements had been complied with.
6. Gelpcke v. The City of Dubugue (ante, p. 175), affirmed; the whole case
asserting the validity of municipal bonds, made payable to bearer and,

issued for the construction of railroads, when such bonds-are in tha
hands of innocent holders for value.

E-RiO to the District Court of the United States, for- the
District of Ibwa, the case being thus:
The city of Muscatine was incorporated, A.D. 1851,, by
the legislature of Iowa, and by its charter made "a body
corporate, and invested with all powers and attribute&of a
municipal corporation." "The legislative authority of the
city," says this charter by its 19th section, "is vested in a
city council;" which council, the charter goes on to declare;
"is invested with the following powers," the powers being

set forth essentially as follows:
"1. To secure the inhabitants against fire, and violations of the
law and the public peace; to suppress riots, drunkenness, garm.
bling, and disorderly conduct; and generally to provide for the
safety, good order, and prosperity of the city, and the health,
morals, and conveniences of the inhabitants.
"2. To impose penalties for the violation of its ordinances
"3. To establish and organize fire companies, and to provide
them with fire apparatus.
"4. To regulate the keeping and sale of gunpowder within
the city, and to provide that no building of wood shall be erected
within designated parts.
VOL. I.
25

386

MEYER

v. TnE CITY OF MUSCATINE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
"5. To have the control of the landing on the Mississippi River,
and build wharves: and regulate the landing, wharfage, dockage, &e.
"6. To provide for the license, regulation, or prohibition of'
exhibitions, &c.; billiard tables, ball and ten-pin alleys, and
places where any games of skill or chance are played.
" 7. To make ordinances in relation to the cleanliness and
health of the city.
"8. To regulate cartage and drayage within the city, and
make prohibition of animals running at large within the city.
"9. To provide for the establishment and support of schools
in the city, and for the government of the same.
"10. To audit all claims against the city; to provide for the
keeping of the public money of the city, and the manner of
drawing the same from the treasurer.
"11. To establish the grade of the streets, alleys, and wharves.
"12. To prescribe the manner of calling the meetings of the
citizens, except for the election of officers.
"13. To appoint street commissioners and officers.
"14. To cause the streets and alleys of the city to be paved.
"15. W To borrow money for ANY object in its discretion, if at
a regularly notified meeting, under a notice stating distinctly the
nature and object of the loan, and the amount thereof, as nearly
as practicable, the citizens determine in favor of the loan by
a majority of two-thirds of the votes given at the election.
"16. To fill vacancies occurring in any of the city offices by
appointment of record, to hold, in the case of election officers,
until the next regular election and the qualification of the sue..
cessor."
In addition to the power thus given by the charter to borrow money, the legislature of Iowa had, on the 25th of January, 1855, passed certain acts; [the same acts referred to ante,
p. 220, Gelpcke v. The City of Dubuque, No. 81.] One is entitled "An act regulating the interest on city and county bonds."*
The first section enacied, "that railroad companies might
issue their bonds at such a rate of interest and sell them at
such discount as might be necessary, and that they should
* Statutes of Iowa, p. 223; Revision of 1860.

Dec. 1863.1

MEYER v. THE CITY or MUSCATIn.
Statement of the case.

remain legal and binding." The second section, "that whenever any company shall have received or may hereafter receive the bonds of any city or county, upon subscription of
stock by such city or county, such bonds may have interest
at any rate not exceeding ten per cent., and may be sold by
the company at such discount as may be deemed expedient."
With this charter and these enactments in force, it was
proposed by certain persons that the city of Muscatine, Iowa,
should borrow money and subscribe to the stock of the Mississippi and Missouri Railroad; an ordinance was accordingly
passed, July 23d, 1855, to take the vote of the citizens, in
order to see whether two-thirds of them, as required by the
article 15, ante,p. 386, were in favor of borrowing the money.
The ordinance enacted essentially as follows:
The election shall be upon the following, propositions:
1st. To rescind a vote given, &c., authorizing the council to
borrow $45,000, to be subscribed on stock of the Iowa Western
Railroad, and also to rescind a vote given authorizing~the council to borrow $50,000, to be subscribed on stock of the Muscatine, Iowa City, &c., Railroad.
2d. To borrow for a term of years, not exceeding twenty, on
the bonds of the city, at a rate of interest not higher than ten
per cent. per annum, $130,000, to be subscribed on stock in the
name of the city to the capital stock of the Mississippi and Missouri Railroad Company.
3d. The vote shall be given by ballot, written or printed, with
the words "For the rescission and loan," and "Against the rescission and loan," and if the requisite number of votes are for the
rescission and loan, the council shall cause the bonds to be issued.
Three hundred and twenty-six votes were given for the
rescission and loan, and five against it.
The city accordingly issued its bonds, the form of them,
somewhat special, being thus:
Bond of the City of Muscatine,
UNfIf

STATES OF AEICA.

NO. 51.
$1000.
Be it known that the city of Muscatine owes to Adam Ogilvie,
or bearer,the sum of one thousand dollars for money borrowed,

MEYER v. THE CITY OF MUSCATINE.

[Sup. Ci

Statement of the case.

the receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged, and which sum t.,
said city of Muscatine hereby promises to pay, at the office of
E. W. Clark, Dodge & Co., in the city of New York, on the first
day of January, eighteen hundred and seventy-six (January 1st,
1876), -pith interest on said sum of one thousand dollars at the
annual rate of ten per cent., payable semi-annually,on the 1st day
of January and 1st day of July in each year; and the faith of
the city of Muscatine is hereby pledged for the semi-annual payments of interest and the ultimate redemption of the principal.
Upon the surrender of this bond to A. C. Flagg, treasurerin trust,
at any time previous to said 1st January, 1876, the holder hereof
will be entitled to ten shares of the capitalstock of the ..Mississippi
and 2fissouri Railroad Company, in satisfaction thereof.
Whereof J. H. Wallace, Mayor of the city of Muscatine, does
hereby certify that by a vote of the legal electors of the said city of
2uscatine, at an election held 13th August, 1855, in accordance
with an ordinanceof the Common Council sanctioning the same, that
the said city was authorized to borrow the sum of one hundred and
thirty thousand dollars, and to issue its bonds therefor, bearing
interest at ten per cent. per annum, and that the above is one
of the bonds given for said loan.
In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed
[sEA.] the seal of said city this thirty-first day of December,
A.D. 1858.
J. H. WALLACE,
MHayor.

Attested by
D. S. Jo~wson,

Recorder.
The coupons were in this form:
The city of Muscatine will pay the bearer, on the 1st day of
January, 1860, twenty-five dollars, at the office of E. W. Clark,
Dodge & Co., in the city of New York, interest due on their bond
No. 51.

J. H. WALLACE,

Mayor.

A number of the bonds thus issued- having got into the
hands of the plaintiffs, and the interest being unpaid, they
brought suit to recover it. The city set up various defences,
as follows:

Dec. 1863.]

MEYEit

v. THn

CITY OF MUSCATINE.

889

Statement of the case.

1. That there was no authority in the charter of the city
of Muscatine under which money may be borrowed to aid
in the construction of railroads.
2. Because the interest was made payable in New York
city, instead of at the treasury of the city of Muscatine.
8. Because, in the stipulation to pay the interest semi-an"nuallyat the rate of ten per cent., the authority conferred
by the vote which limited the rate of interest to "not higher
than ten per cent. per annum," was transcended and a usurious rate agreed to be paid.
4. Because the stock of the Mississippi and Missouri Railroad Company, for which said bonds and coupons were issued,
was, without authority fiom the city, placed in the hands of
a trustee and entirely beyond its control.
5.Because, under the authority to borrow a sum of money,
no money was ever borrowed by the city, but instead, these
bonds were delivered to the officers of the Mississippi and
Missouri Railroad Company, and by their agents and brokers
sold to the plaintiffs at a price greatly below their par value.
[An amended answer to the claim averred, "that the said
bonds were by the officers of said railroad company, and
their agents and brokers, sold to the plaintiffs at a price
greatly below their par value; that at the time said bonds
and coupons were received by said plaintiffs, they had full
knowledge of the fact that said bonds had been issued for
the purpose of aiding in the construction of said Mississippi
and Missouri Railroad."]
6. Because the ordinance on which the vote for a loan was
taken was void, because it submitted three distinct propositions in one, and in such a manner as to cut off an effective
opposition from all voters who were against the whole of the
propositions.
7. Because, finally, the legislature had no constitutional
power to authorize the issue of such bonds, and that hence
they are void.
To these defences there was a demurrer, which demurrer
the court overruled, giving judgment in favor of the city.
On appeal, the questions here were the same as they were

390

MEYER v. THE CITY OF MUSCATINE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

below; that is to say, whether the defences set up by the
city were sufficient defences to the claim for payment of the
coupons in the hands of bondfide holdersfor ralue.
The case was submitted on briefs of 37r. Cookfor the bondholders, and of Xir. Bichman and Butler for the city of Ifuscatine; the arguments on both sides being much the same as
those in one or the other of the three cases of Gelpc4ke v. The
City of Dubuque, ante, p. 175, or in 31ercer County v. .Hacket,
ante, p. 83. As every reader of this volume, and every inquirer into the obligation of railroad bonds will have read
those cases, and will be possessed of the arguments applicable to this case, these arguments need not be repeated here.
Some of the arguments in this case having, in fact, been
transferred to those.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court:
The demurrer brings under examination the objections
taken by the defendant to the validity of the coupons upon
which this suit is founded.
These objections will be considered as we proceed.
I. "T hat there is no authority in the charter of the city of luscatine under which money may be borrowed to aid in the construction of railroads."
The charter gives the city authority "to borrow money
for any object in its discretion, if at a regularly notified meeting under a notice stating distinctly the nature and object
of the loan, and the amount thereof, as nearly as practicable,
the citizens determine in favor of the loan, by a majority of
two-thirds of the votes given at the election."
When the bonds and coupons were issued, the acts of the
legislature of Iowa of the 25th of January, 1855,* were in
force. These acts in connection with the provision of the
charter furnish, in our judgment, a conclusive answer to this
objection.
The effect of the acts was considered in the case of Gepcke
(t al. v. The City of Dubuque,t decided at this term, to which
we refer.
*Chaps

128 and 149.

t Ante, 220, N~o. 81, notu

Dec. 1863.]

MEYER v. THE CITY OF MUSCATINE.

91

Opinion of the court.

IL ".Because the interest was vade payable in New York city,
instead of at the treasury of the city of iluscatine."
It was according to the general usage to make such bonds
and coupons payable in the city of New York. It added to
the value of the bonds and was beneficial to all parties. No
legal principle forbids it. The power of a municipal corporaion to make any contract, does not depend upon the place
of perfoamance, but upon its scope and object. A. city authorized to establish gas-works and water-works, and to
gravel its streets, may buy water, coal, and gravel, beyond its,
limits, and agree to pay where they are found or elsewhere.
The principal power, when expressed, draws to it by necessary implication, the means of its execution. This is a settled
rule in ihe construction of all grants of authority, whether
to governments or individuals. If the subject admitted of
doubt, we should hold that the city, having acted upon its
own construction, and drawn in others to take the securities
and advance their money upon it, is now concluded fiom denying that construction to be the true one.*
IIL ".Because in the stipulation to pay the interest semi-annually at the rate of ten per cent., the authority conferred by the vote
which limited the rate of interest to ' not higher than ten per cent.
per annum,' was transcended, and a usurious rate agreed to be
paid."
This objection has no foundation. When a statute fixes
the rate of interest per annum, it has always been held that
parties may lawfully contract for the payment of that rate,
before the principal debt becomes due, at periods shorter
than a year.t
IV. "Because the stock of the Mississippi and MissouriBail.
road Company, for which said bonds and coupons were issued,
was, without authorityfrom the city, placed in the handsof a trustee,
"nd entirej beyond its control."
This objection, though urged in the argument, does rot
arise upon the record. All that appears touching the subject is, that the bond of $1000, as set out in the exhibit at* Van Hostrup v. The City of Madison, ante, p. 291.
-2owry v. Bishop, 5 Paige, 98.

892

MEYER V. THE CITY OF MUSCATINE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

tached to the complaint, besides binding the city to pay, provides that the holder, upon surrendering it at any time before
maturity "to A. C. Flagg, trustee," should be entitled to ten
shares of the stock of the railroad company. To such an
arrangement there is no legal objection. The city had a
right to apply the stock for which the bonds were given, or
its proceeds, at any time, in discharge of the bonds.
V. "_Because, under the authority to borrow a sum of money,
no money was ever borrowed by the city; but instead, these bonds
were delivered to the officers of the Mississippiand Missouri Bailroad Company, and by their agents and brokers sold to the plaintiffs at a price greatly below their par value."
The amended answer avers, "That the said bonds were
by the officers of said railroad company, and their agents and
brokers, sold to the plaintiffs at a price greatly below their
par value; that at the time said bonds and coupons were
received by said plaintiffs, they had full knowledge of the
fact that said bonds had been issued for the purpose of aiding
in the construction of said Mississippi and Missouri Railroad."
The city was authorized to issue the bonds in order to borrow money to pay for the stock. If the company chose to
receive the bonds in payment for the stock, retaining a lien
on the stock until the bonds were paid, there was no legal
obstacle in the way of their doing so. The object of issuing
the bonds was thus accomplished, and no injury was do-: e to
those who were to pay them. It is neither averred in the
answer, nor -claimed in the argument, that the railroad company took them at less than their face. It does not appear
that any one objected then, and no one can object now.
After -the bonds passed into the hands of the railroad company, the company was at liberty to sell them on such terms
as it might deem proper.
The act of January 25, 1855,* by a clear implication, authorizes cities to give their bonds in payment of their subscriptions of railroad stock, and expressly authorizes the
* Chap. 128.

Dec. 1863.]

MEYER V. THE CITY OF MUSCATINE.

393.

Opinion of Miller, J.; dissentilig.

bonds to "be sold by the company at such discount as may
be deemed expedient." What is implied has the same effect
as what is expressed.*
VI. " The ordinanceon which the vote for a loan.was taken was
void, because it submitted three distinct propositions in one, and in
such a manner as to cut off an effective oppositionfrom all voters
who were against the whole of the propositions."
The record shows that all the votes cast, except five, were
in favor of the loan. The city and citizens adopted and
acted upon the ordinance as valid and sufficient. The citizens
voted, and the city authorities issued the bonds. N o one
interposed to prevent their issue. It is not questioned that
all the parties acted in good faith, and the city can not now
be heard to object to the regularity of its own proceedings.
A party taking the bonds was bound to look to the legal
authority under which the public agents acted. If that were
sufficiently comprehensive, he had a right to presume that
those empowered to act and acting under it had complied
with its requirements.t
VII. "It is insisted that the legislature had no constitutional
power to authorize the issue of such bonds, and that hence they are
void."
This is sufficiently answered by the opinion of this court in
Gelycke v. City of -Dubuque,decided at this term.t
The judgment below must be reversed, and the cause remanded for further proceedings, in conformity to this opinion.
JUDGMENT ACCORDINGLY.

Mr. Justice AMILER, dissenting:
I dissent from the judgment and opinion of the court just
delivered.
In the case of Gelpcke v. City of Dubuque, decided at this
term,ยง I have given the reasons which I thought required
* United States v. Babbit, 1 Black, 55.
t Commissioners of Knox Co. v. Aspinwall, 21 Howard, 589. [And see
Mercer Co. v. Hacket, ante, 83. REP.]
I Ante, 175. See also Rowan et al. v. Runnels, 5 Ho-ward, 134; rease v.
Peck, 18 Id., 599; State Bank of Ohio v. Knoop, 16 Id., 392: Jefferson
Branch Bank v. Skelly. 1 Black, 43G.
Ante, p. 175.

394

MiEYER v. THE CITY OF MUSCATINE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Miller, J., dissenting.

this court to follow the recent decisions of the Supreme
Court of Iowa, in holding that all bonds given by municipal
corporations for stock in railroad companies were void, for
want of any constitutional authority in the legislature of that
State to enact the laws under which said bonds were issued.
I do not now propose to add anything to what I there said
upon that subject, but refer to it as fully applicable to the
present case.
In the case now before us, however, it is not claimed that
there was any act of the legislature authorizing the city of
Muscatine to take stock in railroad companies. The principle on which the validity of the bonds is sustained is, that
the charter of the city confers on it an unlimited right to
borrow money, and that having issued its bonds, which have
been sold in the market, they must be held to be valid,
although the purchaser knew they were issued for railroad
stock.
The plea of the defendant is, that the city of Muscatine
"had no authority to assist in building a railroad, or to take
stock in the same, nor to issue the bonds of the city to pay
for stock in the same," and that at the time said bonds were
sold to plaintiffs by the officers of the railroad company, they
had full knowledge that said bonds had been issued for the
purpose of aiding in the construction of the Mississippi and
Missouri Railroad. The plaintiffs demurred to this plea, and
the District Court overruled the demurrer. This court holds
the plea to be bad, and the demurrer well taken.
The authority to borrow money by the city of Muscatine
is found in the 19th section of its charter. That section
undertakes to enumerate, in sixteen subdivisions, all the
powers intended to be conferred on the City Council They
are those which are usually conferred on such bodies, and
none others.
Among them is the authority to establish fire companies,
and provide them with engines, to build wharves, to provide
for the establishment and support of schools, to audit all
claims against the city, to establish the grade of streets and
alleys, and wharves, arid to cause them to be paved. The

Dec. 1863.]

MEYER

v. THE CITY OF MUSCATINE.

895

Opinion of Miller, J., dissenting.

fifteenth subdivision is in the following language: "To borrow money for any object in its discretion, if at a regularly
notified meeting, under a notice stating distinctly the nature
and object of the loan, and the amount thereof, as nearly as
practicable, the citizens determine in favor of the loan, by a
majority of two-thirds of the votes given at the election."
It seems to me that the discretion here confided to the
council as to the objects for which money may be borrowed,
must be construed in one or the other of two modes.
1. That the discretion is in its largest sense unlimited,
except by the voice of two-thirds of the voters. This construction would authorize the city to borrow money to enter
into the banking business, to speculate in gold, or flour, or
grain, or to establish mercantile houses, or to build steamboats, and enter into the trade which flows past the city, on
the waters of the Mississippi River, or to organize mining
compafiies in Colorado. In short, to take the money or property of the citizen against his will, and employ it in any of
the diversified pursuits by which the individual man makes,
or fails to make, money.
A proposition which leads directly to such consequences
cannot be supposed to have entered, for a moment, into the
minds of the legislature. It makes every man's entire propei y,within the limits of the city, the common property of
the community, and converts the citizen, against his will,
into a member of one of those Shaker or French communities in which the individual merges his rights into those of
the association. No such construction can be tolerated,
unless it is impossible that the legislature could have meant
nothing else.
2. That the objects on which this discretion may be exercised must be limited to the execution of some of the powers
granted in the charter..
I do not propose to cite the numerous authorities which
settle that, as matter of law, this is the rule of construction
applicable to the case. It is so well known that it would be
a waste of time to refer to adjudged cases.To establish fire companies, and provide them with en-

896

MEYER v. THE CITY OF MUSCATINE.

[Sup. Ct,

Opinion of Miller, J., dissenting.

gines, is a proper and indeed a necessary object to which the
money or the credit of the city may be applied. The building of wharves also requires more money than can be well
levied at one tax in such a town as Muscatine. And in
building school-houses, and other expenditures necessary to
establish schools, the citizens may well be consulted, whether
the credit of the city may be used. So of grading and paving
the streets of the city. All these are purposes, and perhaps
there are others enumerated in the act, about which this
discretion may well be exercised. It is not necessary, then,
to impute to the legislature the injustice and absurdity of
intending the first construction of the charter above mentioned. Here are certain powers conferred, objects to be
accomplished by the council named in fourteen paragraphs.
The fifteenth authorizes them to borrow money for any
object in their discretion, if sustained by a two-thirds vote
of the citizens. Nothing can be more reasonable {han to
suppose that the discretion so conferred was limited to the
9bjects enumerated in the fourteen preceding paragraphs.
None of these include railroads; nor does any of them
include anything from which railroad enterprises can possily be implied. In order to get the power to borrow money
to build railroads, some other authority than that given by
this section must be showu. I do not think any such exists,
nor has any been pointed to by counsel, unless it be that
such a power is inherent in municipal corporations without
regard to their charters. I do not think, at this day, any
court can be found to hold such a doctrine.
But what is wanting in original power to issue these bonds
is supposed to be supplied as a ratification or confirmation of
them, by the act of January 25, 1855, which may be seen on
pyage 223 of the Revision of 1860 of the laws of Iowa. This
is entitled, "An act regulating the interest on city and county
bonds." The first section declares that railroad companies
may issue their own bonds at such a rate of interest, and sell
them at such discount as may be necessary, and they shall
remain legal and binding. Section 2-the one relied on in
this Qase-is as follows: "That whenever any company shall

Dec. 1863.]

MEYER v. THE

CT

OF MUScATINE.

397

Opinion of Miller, J., dissenting.

have received, or may hereafter receive the bonds of any city
or county, upon subscription of stock by such city or county,
such bonds may have interest at any rate not exceeding ten
per cent., and may be sold by the company at such discount
as may be deemed expedient."
It is obvious that the whole purpose of the statute was to
relieve such bonds as might have been, or might hereafter
be issued, from liability to the charge of usury. This is not
the language in which the legislature or any one else *ould
undertake to make valid bonds, issued without any authority
whatever in the municipal body. The bonds in this case
were issued before the act passed. It says never a word
about ratifying them or confirming them, or making good
the want of power to issue them. It is said, however, that
the act itself implies that there was authority to issue such
bonds in the cities and counties. This is a clear non seguitur.
An examination of the acts of the legislature will show that
the cities of Dubuque, of Keokuk, of Davenport, and perhaps
many others, had been authorized by the legislature to take
stock in railroads, and to issue bonds in payment of it, and
the Supreme Oourt of the State had then twice decided that,
by a general law, all the counties in the State could do so.
These cities, then, and all the counties having the authority
to issue bonds for stock, and some of them having done so,
and others intending to do so, the legislature meant no more
than to say, that in the cases where they had been, or might
hereafter be issued lawfully, in other respects, they should
not be held usurious because of The rate of discount at which
they might be sold.
To infer from this act that the legislature intended to make
valid the bonds of the city of Muscatine, issued without any
authority, is a stretch of fancy, only to be indulged in railroad bond cases, and which it is hoped may be confined to
them as a precedent. The act applies to bonds issued after
its passage as well as before, and in precisely the same terms.
Its effect is the same on both. Now will it be urged that
this was intended to confer on all the cities whose charters
had theretofore denied them such power, the right to take

"WOODS v. FREEMJANq.

[Sup. C

Statement of the case.

stock in railroad enterprises? Is this the language in which
an act of such importance, and affecting so many persons
and so much property, would be framed? Yet it is by such
latitudinary construction of statutes as this that it is attempted
to fasten upon owners of property, who never assented to the
contract, a debt of twenty millions of dollars, involving a
ruin only equalled in this country by that visited upon the
guilty participants in the current rebellion.

WOODS v. FREEMAN.
A judgment in Illinois for taxes is fatally defective if it does not in terms
or by some mark indicating money, such as $ or cls., show the amount,
in money, of the tax for which it was rendered. Numerals merely,
that is to say, numerals without some mark indicating that they stand
for money, are insufficient.

sued Woods in ejectment, in the Circuit Court
for the Northern District of Illinois, to recover possession of
the southwest quarter of section three (8) of township eight
(8) north of range three (3) west of the fourth principal
meridian, situated in Warren County, in that State. At the
trial, Freeman showed title in himself by a regular chain of
conveyances from the United States. Woods, to defeat this
title, insisted that the tract of land had been regularly sold
for the non-payment of taxes for the year 1852, and the validity of the sale was the main question in the case.
By the statute law of Illinois, the collector of taxes reports
to the proper court a list of lands on which the taxes remain
due and unpaid, and if no good reason is interposed a judgment is entered on his assessment and return, in the name
of the State of Illinois, against the several tracts of land for
the sum annexed to each, being the amount of taxes, interest, and costs due thereon, and a precept to sell is ordered.
The following illustration of the collector's assessment and
return will show the nature of the document on which judgment is in these cases given; though, in the present case,
FREEMAN

