MILLER V. TIFFANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

MILLER v. TIFAN.
Tn an action for the price of goods which the purchaser by his own agerts
examined and selected, and which he himself afterwards received and
kept without objection, it is no defence that the price as agreed on was
above that of the market; there having been neither fraud, misrepresentation, noi warranty in the case.
A person contracting for the payment of interest may contract to pay it
either at the rate of the "place of contract," or at that of the "place
of performance," as one or the other may be agreed on by himself and
the creditor; and the fact that the rate of the place at which it is agreed
that it shall be paid is higher than the rate in the other place, will not
expose the transaction to the imputation of usury, unless the place
agreed on was fixedfor tw purpose of obtaining the higher rate, and to
evade the penalty of a usurious contract at the other place.

TIFFANY filed a bill against Miller and wife, in the Circuit
Court for the District of Indiana, to foreclose a mortgage
which the last-named persons had given to Palmer, a merchant of New York, and Wallace, an attorney at law of
Cleveland, Ohio, as assignees of two insolvent firms; which
mortgage they, the said Palmer and Wallace, had assigned
to him, the complainant.
The facts of the case were essentially these: Two mercantile firms, closely connected with each other and in part
composed of the same persons-one in Cleveland, Ohio, and
one in New York Cty-being unfortunate in business, had
made an assignment of their effects, dry goods chiefly, to
these two persons, Wallace and Palmer; Palmer being a
large creditor of the firms. About $50,000 worth of the
goods were at Cleveland under Wallace's charge, and about
$73,000 worth in New York, under Palmer's.
In this state of things, Miller, a German trader, resident
at Fort Wayne, in Indiana, who had a valuable, unincumbered real estate in that State, but -who was largely in debt
and much embarrassed for ready money, employed two personal friends, Turner and Rufner, to go to New York and
raise him money. They went there in February, 1858, and
after making, according to Rufner's account, "desperate
efforts, for at least four weeks, by publication in the Herald

Dec. 1863.]

M'ILLER

v). T1iFFANY.

Statement of the case.

and Tribune," fell in with a broker, named Anthony, who
introduced them to Palmer. The result was, that Palmer
entered into a treaty to sell Miller $20,000 worth of that
part of the assigned goods in New York, at six months' credit,
and to receive in payment for them a mortgage. on Miller's
real estate in Indiana, payable in five years ; the mortgage
to provide, however, that if there should be any default in
paying the interest, the principal should become due at once.
Palmer wrote, on the 15th of February, 1858, to Wallace at
Cleveland what he had agreed on, requested him to go to
Fort Wayne in Indiana, examine the property and title, an.d
if satisfied with both to have the papers prepared; after
which the goods should be delivered to Miller or his agents.
Wallace, accordingly, went to Fort Wayne, in Indiana, and
being satisfied with the security, a note for the term mentioned was given by Miller, with interest at ten per cent., payable, not in New York, where Palmer lived, and where the
goods were bought, nor yet in Fort Wayne, the residence of
Miller, but in Cleveland (at the Commercial Branch Bank
there), the residence of Wallace, with the curent rate of exchange on New York.* Matters being thus concluded, Rufner, the friend of Miller, went to New York and selected the
goods out of the assigned stock there. They were then
shipped to Fort Wayne, where Miller received them.
Six per cent., it is necessary to state, was apparently the
lawful rate of interest in Indiana. Ten was allowable in
Ohio, under a statute of 14th March, 1850, at that time in
* The note was in these words:

$20,000.

CLEVELAND,

0., February 22, 1850.

Five years after date, for value received, I, George Miller, of Fort Wayne,
Allen County, Indiana, promise to pay Courtland Palmer and Frederick
Wallace, assignees, or their order, twenty thousand dollars, with interest at
the rate of ten per centum per annum, payable semi-annually, after six months
from the date hereof, and on failure to pay said interest when due, the
whole of said note to become due and collectable; the above note, interest,
and principal, negotiable and p ayable at the Commercial Branch Bank, Cleveland, Ohio, with the current rate of exchange an New York, and without rdlief
from valuation or aplraisement laws of the State of Indiana.
Gxones MILLER~

MILLER

v.

TIFFANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

foi ce. Whether on a sale of goods ten was in New York, was
not so clear. On the loan of money it was not.
The interest not being paid, and the present bill filed to
foreclose the mortgage, Miller set up two principal defences:
1. That the goods were not worth anything like the sum
at which.they had been sold to him.
2. That the contract for ten per cent. was usurious and
void.
As respected the value of the goods, the testimony was conflicting. Evans, a trader of Fort Wayne, who on Miller's invitation had looked through the goods, "without any special
motive, but the same as he would look through any other stock
of goods in town, to see what I had to compete with," when
interrogated as to their value replied, "This is a difficult
question to answer, one in which, perhaps, no two men would
agree. Their value to any man depends upon his facilitiesfor
getting rid of them. I should estimate their value to me, considering the fact that the stock was an old stock of goods, a
great portion of them out of style, being poorly assorted, a
large quantity of goods of a particular kind, and few or
none of other kinds necessary to make up an assortment in
proportion to the whole amount of stock, at from sixty to
sixty-five per cent. of the invoices."
Walker, another resident of Fort Wayne, who had been
"engaged in trading goods for about seven years, railroading
some, and a part of the time engaged in outside trading,"
confirmed this estimate between invoice and cash values;
adding, " the principal objections to the stock were, that the
goods were badly selected; large amounts of some kinds, and
a few or none of others to make them saleable. A considerable quantity of them were out of style, which is a bad objection in selling goods. Part of the goods were worth
more than the invoice price, and a part of them less, making
the average value about two-thirds invoiced price."
Gilford, who was a clerk of Miller, when the goods arrived
at Fort Wayne, thought that "the general character of the
goods was not very good. The goods were principally old
styles, and was a hard stock to sell,and the majority of them

Dec. 1863.]

MILLER v. TIFANY.
Statement of the case.

were billed to Miller at too high prices for retailing purposes.
They were worth, in my opinion, about sixty cents on the
dollar."
As respected the matter of usury. It appeared that Mr.
Hough, an attorney of Fort Wayne, where Miller lived, was
employed by Wallace, on his visit to Fort Wayne, to draw
the papers in the case. In giving an account of the circumstances under which the note was made payable, Hough's
testimony was, that on the morning of the day when the note
was drawn, Miller introduced him to Wallace. The witness
stated as follows: "The note and mortgage were drawn up
in my office on the 22d of February, 1858. I first wrote a
note payable in New York for the amount specified, with ten
per cent. interest, upon which some conversation ensued between Wallace and Miller, when Miller remarked in substance that he would rather pay it to Wallace: I I know
you, Wallace; you are a clever fellow; I would rather pay
you, as I don't know Palmer;' and asked if it could not be
paid in Cleveland, adding that he expected to trade there,
and it would be easier for him to pay it in Cleveland. Upon the
request of Miller, Wallace wrote a note, and made it payable
at the Commercial Branch Bank at Cleveland, which was
and is the residence of Wallace."
There was no evidence to contradict this, except so far as
it might be found in a correspondence between Palmer in
New York and Wallace .in Cleveland. Palmer, after concluding the negotiation with Rufner and Turner (Miller's
agents in New York), gave Rufner, then on his way through
Cleveland to Fort Wayne, an open letter to Wallace-the
one already mentioned, and dated 15th February, 1858-and
to be delivered by Rufner to him. It ran thus:
"This will be handed to you by Mr. Rufner, one of the parties who have been negotiating with me for the purchase of part
of our stock of goods here; the purchase-money to be secured
by mortgage on Mr. Miller's property at Fort Wayne. My proposal to them is, to sell $20,000 of our goods, at our regular
prices to the country, at six months' credit, and to receiye in pay
therefor, a bond and mortgage on Mr. Miller's property,-pro-

AILLER v.

TiFFANY.

[Sul). Ct.

Statement of the case.

vided it affords satisfactory security for the amount, and the title
is undoubted; the mortgage to be the first lien on the property.
and payable on or before five years, bearing ten per cent. semiannual interest; the first interest to be payable in twelve months
from the date of the delivery of the goods here; the principal
and interest to be payable here," etc.
On the 22d February, 1858,Wallace, who, in pursuance of
this letter, went, as already mentioned, to Fort Wayne, in Indiana, having, as he says, "concluded the business for which
I came here," writes to his co-assignee Palmer, from that
place, late in the evening and when "tired," a long letter
and "in full," "how he found things and what he had done."
He gives an account of some accidents on the way, his being
detained by "a blockade of snow," how he had examined
the property thoroughly with Mr. Hough, a full account of
the character and value of the property, &e., and after a mention of some other things proper enough to be reported to
his co-assignee or principal, his letter contained this sentence,
the only one having any reference whatever to the place
where the interest on the mortgage-note was to be paid, or
as to why Palmer's instructions on that point had been de
parted from:
"I have taken the liberty to vary from your instructions in reference to the place where the note is made payable. Seven per cent.
being, as I understand, the lpgal rate of interest in :New York,
and six per cent. being the rate in Indiana, the note would seem to
be open to the plea of usury both here and in _1rew York if made for
ten per cent. So, to avoid this, I made it payable in Ohio, and
dated it there, where ten per cent. is the legal rate with exchange on
.New York, which results the same."
Wallace, who was himself examined as a witness, gave this
account. After confirming Hough's statement that the note
was originally drawn so as to make interest payable in New
York, and that it was by JIiller'srequest that it was finally
made payable in Cleveland, Wallace continued:
"Upon this request of Mr. Miller, I consented that I would take
his note, payable as he had desired, with exchange on New York;

Dec. 1863.]

MILLER v. TIFFANY.

Statement.of the zase.

to which he agreed; and the note in suit was thus drawn up by
myself, and executed by Mr. Miller. The note was so executed
by Miller, and received by. me in the utmost good faith, on my
part, as to the place where it was dated and made payable, and
mainly for the reason expressed by Miller, that it would enable him
to pay it in his home currency. rerhaps another reason which induced me to consent to the change proposed by Miller was,
that I understood that by the laws of New York seven per cent.
was the legal rate of interest; and as Mr. Palmer had informed
me -that the note was to draw ten per cent. interest, it occurred
to me that perhaps the contract might upon its face be opened to
the plea of usury if payabie in .New York; and not haringtime to
examine the question, and as the laws of my own State allowed par.
ties to contract for ten per cent. interest, and beliveing that I had
the same right to make the note payable at my place of residence (as we were joint assignees in both New York and Cleveland), as at the domicile of Mr. Palmer, I thought it would remove
that apparent objection upon the face, if the note was made paya.
ble at my residence in: Ohio."
A sharp cross-examination got no very different result.
The witness said: .
,!I regarded my knowledge as very imperfect upon the subject, for I had no knowledge of the construction of the statute of
New York. I only had queries in my mind in reference to it,
and fears that the contract might be regarded upon its face as
usurious. I knew that the legal rate of interest in New York
was seven per cent., and at the same time I had that confidence
in Mr. Palmer's experience as a business man that he must know
the statute of his own State in respect to interest upon all contracts, that he would not have bargained blindly for an illegal

rate. Hence my doubts as to whether or not it was usurious
upon its face. I regarded the contract as important, and I had
a good deal of interest; but I had less personal anxiety in regard
to it, and did not investigate questions connected with it as I
should have done, had I not known that Palmer, before consummating the sale, would consult his lawyer in New York, Mr
Charles Tracy."
On the other hand, there were some indicationsin the evidence that the whole business, so far as Miller was con-

MILLER V. TIFFANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the ease.

cerned, was a scheme of his, and perhaps of Ruffner's, to get
the goods by fraud, and without paying anything to anybody
for them. It appeared, at least, that after Wallace, late at
night-near midnight-had written his letter to Palmer of
22d of February, 1858, a copy of it-either at his request and
because he was tired, or at the request of Ruffner, and for
some purpose, honest or dishonest, of his-had been taken
by Miller's clerk; and that copy, containing the remark as to
the reason why the interest had been made payable at Cleveland, was now produced accordingly. Rufncr also swor6 that
when he and Turner were making the treaty or negotiation
with Palmer, in New York, for the goods, nothing was said
about the rate of interest: that he expected it was to be scven
per cent., the New York rate; and that the first intimation
he had to the contrary, was Palmer's open letter to Wallace,
given to him, Rufner, to be delivered. Giving an account
further on of the report, which, on getting to Fort Wayne,
in Indiana, he had made to his principal and friend Miller,
Rufner said:
"11 did report to Mr. Miller the terms as were written to Mr.
Wallace, it being the only evidence in writing that we had in relation
to the whole transactionup to that time. Mr. Miller swore that by
* * * * ten per cent. would eat him up; he might as well surrender at once, and that the idea of his wife joining in a mortgage
and note was a thing he had never been called upon to do, and
he could not consent to accept such a ** * ** * proposition,
I told him
and that he had better let his business go to ****.

of course he was the judge in the matter; that these were the
terms; I knew they were hard, but it was the best and only
thing I could do with Mr. Palmer, and that, in my opinion, if
he objected to any portion of Palmer's written instruction to
M1r. Wallace, he might as well abandon the whole; that I had
understood Xr. Wallace had no power to act in the matter. I said
I thought that the contract with ten per cent. interest was a usurious
one."

This conversation was just before Wallace arrived in Fort
Wayne to examine and conclude matters, and at Miller's request changed the place of paying the interest.

Dec. 1863.]

MILLER

v. TiFrANY.

305

Argument for the mortgagor.

It appeared that immediately after the mortgage was executed and forwarded to Palmer at New York, Rufner,who
now went to New York to select the goods, wrote, on the
25th of February,to Miller, about the subject of his business
there. The contents of his letter were to be inferred from
the reply. Miller writes back on the 2d of March, 1858,
that is to say, ten days after the conclusion of matters at Fort
Wayne, between himself and Wallace, thus:
"Friend -ufner: Yours of the 25th February was received
this morning, and contents particularly noticed, and in reply,
have but little to say, knowing that your good judgment will
enable you to see and do things for me and yourself far better
at this late day than I could suggest, being so far from the place
of action, and knowing so little of the surroundings and influences
under which you will have to act, in order to accomplish the ob.Be sure you preserve a
ject of your visit to New York ......
copy of Mr. Wallace's letter to Mr. Palmer."
And he adds in a postscript:
"P. S. In regard to the ten per cent. matter, let the Palmer
party do all the talking themselves, and keep perfectly cool and
shady on that subject. Don't let Turner see this letter."
The court below made a decree of foreclosure, and from
that decree the present appeal was taken; the questions here
being the same as below.
.2r..Evarts and Mlfr. Gilettefor Miller and wife, the appellants:
1. The testimony shows that the goods were not at all
worth the prices charged. They were unmarketable goods,
the residuum, after the season of sales, of a bankrupt firm.
Palmer was a. heavy creditor of the firm, nursing its assets
fiom interest, as much as he was bound to nurse them from
duty. The goods were bought before they were really seen.
The selection took place after the mortgage was executed and
in possession of Palmer.
2. The negotiationa and the transactions were commenced
and completed in the city and State of New York. Palmer
VOL. I.

20

MILLER

v.

TIFFANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the mortgagor.

having for sale in the city of New York a stock of dry goods
belonging to the assigned estate of a bankrupt firm of that
city, treats there with Miller's agents, and concludes all the
terms of the bargain, leaving open merely an inquiry into
the value of Miller's property to be mortgaged. Upon the
report of his agent in this inquiry, Palmer received the securities, now in suit, from Miller's agents in the city of New
York, and there delivered the goods which formed the subject of the bargain. The circumstances and the motives
under which the note, instead of being dated at Fort Wayne,
Indiana, where it was made and signed, was dated at Cleveland, Ohio, and made payable there, instead of at New York,
refute the pretension that it was an element or ingredient of
the contract between the parties, and one upon which its
terms were adjusted, that the price of the goods sold in
New York was to be paid in Ohio. Palmer in his letter
states the terms of the bargain to be, that the bond and
mortgage were "to be drawn payable on or before five years,
bearing ten per cent. semi-annual interest, the first interest
to be payable in twelve months from the date of the delivery
of thegoodshere; the principaland interest to be payable here;"
and Wallace gives the whole reason of the place of payment
being varied, on the face of the securities, as follows: "I
have taken the liberty to vary from your instructions in reference to the place where the note is made payable. Seven
per cent. being, as I understand, the legal rate of interest in
New York, and six per cent. being the rate in Indiana, the
note would seem to be open to the plea of usury, both here
and in New York, if made for ten per cent. ; so, to avoid this,
I made it payable in Ohio, and dated it there, where ten per
cent. is the legal rate, with exchange on New York, which
results the same." The charge of "exchange on _rew York"
being added to the face of the price, thus to be paid at Cleveland, shows that Ncw York remained the place of payment in the
intent of both payer and payee, and as a term of the bargain, notwithstanding the formal change in the tenor of the note.
The validity of the transaction, then, depends on the law
of New York, the true "place of the contract;" and Cleve-

Dec. 1863.]

M ILLER

v. TIFFANY.

Argument for the mortgagee.

land having been made the "place of performance," not as
a substantive item of the agreement, but only as one in evasion of the "1place of the contract," cannot furnish the rule
for the exposition or government of what was done.
[8. The counsel contended, under this head, that by the statute of NSew York the contract was usurious, whether it was
regarded as a sale, with a note and mortgage given in payment, or whether considered in the light, which was its true
one, of a loan, under the guise of a sale; the purpose being
that Miller should sell the goods en masse at auction.]
Mr. Coombs; on the other side:
1. The defence set up from failure of consideration breaks
down completely. The first witness produced to sustain it,
disproves it. The value of the goods, he says, is matter of
opinion; a question, "in which, perhaps, no two men would
agree." It would depend, he swears, on the party's "facilities for getting rid of them." "The goods were badly selectd," says a second witness. But who selected them? Miller's own agents. Moreover, what did this witness, who had
been engaged in "railroading some," and in "railroading"
as much as in trade, know on the subject? A third witness
considered that they were "billed" too high; but is every
man who has goods "billed" too high to him to set up successfully, failure of consideration, after he has inquired the
price, received the goods and disposed of them for himself?
Trade would not flourish under such a rule.
2. The general principle in relation to contracts made in
one place to be executed in another, is well settled. They
are to be governed by the laws of the place of performance,
and if the interest allowed by the laws of the place. of perfbrmance is higher than that permitted at the place of the
contract, the parties may stipulate for the higher interest
without incurring the penalty of usury.*
We admit that there is one exception to this general rule,
and that where the note is made payable at a place foreign
* Andrews v. Pond, 18 Peters, 78.

MILLER V. TIFFANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

to the residence of either of the parties, and to the subjectmatter of the contract, for the purpose of obtaining a higher
rate of interest than the laws of the place of contract allow,
with intent to evade said law, the contract will be usurious, if
the rate of interest specified exceed the rate allowed by the
lex loci contractus. Nor shall we dispute the proposition, that
where the note is made payable at a place other than the
residence of either of the parties, and foreign to the subjectmatter of the contract, and a higher rate of interest is stipulated for than the laws of the place of contract permit, the
parties will be presumed to have intended a fraudulent evasion of those laws. This presumption, however, can never
arise when the note is made payable at the place of the domicile of one of the parties, especially when it is done at the
request of the payor, and for his accommodation. In the
case at bar, it will be hard to show any good reason, in law
or in morals, why Wallace had not as good a right to require
that the note should be made payable at the place of his
domicile, as Palmer had to require its payment in New York;
even if the payor had been indifferent, instead of desiring
that it should be made payable at Cleveland, in- preference
to New York.
8. Under this head, the counsel replied to the argument
on the New York statute; contending that the transaction
was a sale, not a loan; and that being so it was protected by
the case of Cutler v. "Wright,*which recognized the English
case of Beete v. Bidgood.t
Mr. Justice SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court
Two defences to the mortgage are relied upon:
1. That the goods sold to the defendant, which form6d the
consideration of the note secured by the mortgage, were
worth largely less than the amount for which the note was
given. It is claimed, therefore, that there has been a partial
failure of consideration.
The evidence upon the subject is conflicting. Ithai failed
* 8 Smith, 472.

t 7 Barnewall & Creswell, 453.

Dec. 1863.]

MirL ,t v. TiFANY.
Opinion of the court.

to establish to our satisfaction the fact alleged. Fraud or
misrepresentation by the vendor is neither averred nor
proved. It is in proof that the goods were carefully examined by the agents of Miller before they were bought, and
that they were selected when the purchase was made. They
were sold at the regular prices of the establishment. It does
not appear that Miller made any objection, either to the
prices or quality, when he received them; or that he ever
made any objection, until it was set up in his answer'in this
case,more than a year after the goods were delivered to him.
The objection comes too late. The sanctity of contracts
cannot thus be trifled with. The common law, unlike the
civil law, does not imply a warranty from a full price. Where
there is neither fraud nor warranty, and the buyer receives
and retains the goods, without objection, he waives the right
to object afterwards, and is finally concluded. In such cases
the rule of caveat emptor applies.*
2. The defence chiefly relied upon is usury. The result
of our inquiry upon that subject must depend upon the lex
loci that governs the contract.
Palmer and Wallace, the payees of the note, were the assignees of an insolvent firm, which did business under one
name in New York, and under another at Cleveland, Ohio.
.Palmer resided at New York and Wallace at Cleveland.
About $50,000 worth of the goods, covered by the assignment, were at the former city, and about $75,000 worth at
the latter. The negotiation for the sale was commenced by
Palmer and concluded by Wallace. The note is as follows:
[His Honor here read the mortgage-note, already described.t] Miller lived in Indiana. The note and mortgage
were executed in that State. The mortgaged premises are
situated there. .Wallace was present at the execution of the
securities. They were transmitted to Palmer, at NewYork,
and the goods were thereupou shipped thence to Indiana.
The note and mortgage have been assigned to the appellee.
We lay out of view the imputation upon Palmer and Wal* Hargous v. Stune, 1 Selden, 73.

t See ante, p. 299, note.

MILLER

v. TIFFANY.

[Sup. ot.

Opinion of the court.

lace, of a fiaudalent purpose to evade by shift or device the
usury statute of Indiana or New York. It is wholly unsupported by the evidence. They were acting in a fiduciary
character, and could have had no motive to engage in such
a transaction. There is no reason to believe that such a conception entered into their minds. On the other hand, we
are by no means satisfied that it was not the deliberate purpose of Miller, when the arrangement was made, to involve
them in the toils of this defence, and if possible to escape
with the goods without paying anything for them. Our business, however, is to ascertain and apply the law of the case.
We shall not discuss the evidence bearing upon the ethics
of his conduct.
"The general principle in relation to contracts made in
one place to be performed in another is well settled. They
are to be governed by the law of the place of performance,
and if the interest allowed by the law of the place of performance is higher than that permitted at the place of contract, the parties may stipulate for the higher interest without incurring the penalties of usury."*- The converse of this
proposition is also well settled. If the rate of interest be
higher at the place of the contract than at the place of performance, the parties may lawfully contract in that case also
for the higher rate.t
These rules are subject to the qualification, that the parties
act in good faith, and that the form of the transaction is not
adopted to disguise its real character. The validity of the
contract is determined by the law of the place where it is
entered into. Whether void or valid there, it is so everywhere.1
When these securities were executed the statute of Ohio
of the 14th of March, 1850, upon the subject of interest, was
* Andrews v. Pond, 13 Peters, 77, 78; Curtis et al. v. Leavitt, 15 New
York, 92; Berrien v. Wright, 26 Barbour, 219.
t Depeau v. Humphrey, 20 Howard, 1; Chapman v. Robinson, 6 Paige.
634.
Ii
$ Andrews v. Pond, 18 Peters, 79: Mix et al. v. The Madison Ins. (
Indiana, 117; Corcoran & Riggs v Pewers et al., 6 Ohio State, 19.

Dec.1863.]

UNITED
8
STATES v. D'

GUIRRE.

Statement of the case.

in force. According to its provisions parties might lawfully
contract for any rate of interest not exceeding ten per cent.
per annum. The contract of Miller was therefore valid.
DECREE AFFIRMED WITH COSTS..

UNITED STATES v. D'AGUIRRE.
Where from a tract of land known by a particular name grants of two parcels had been made, and a petition for a grant of the surplus remaining
was presented to the Governor of the Department of California, and
.to the description of the land solicited, these words were added, " the
extent of which is about five leagues more or less"-Held, that these
words were not a limitation upon the quantity solicited, but a mere
conjectural estimate of the extent of the surplus.
The case distinguished from The United States v. Fossat (20 Howard, 413),
and Yontz v. The Uniied Stas (23 Id., 499).
APPEAL by the United States from the District Court for
the Southern District of California; the case being thus:
D'Aguirre, in right of his wife Donna Maria Estudillo,
claimed a tract of land in California under a grant from the
Mexican Government. The tract was parcel of a larger
tract, known as the "Rancho of Old and New San Jacinto."
Two grants had been made of parts from this general tract;
the surplus embracing, in fact, about eleven leagues, being that
which was claimed by the respondent.
Having presented a petition to the Board of Commissioners, appointed by act of March 3d, 1851, to ascertain and
settle private land claims in California, for a confirmation of
his claim, D'Aguirre's title as it appeared before the board
was thus:
His original petition to the prefect for the land, made in
behalf of his wife, set forth "that there was remaining a
sobrante," in the tract or rancho of San Jacinto, and that his
wife, "requiring tb:e said remnant, ... solicited the prefect's
assistance to obtain the mentioned land, the extent of which
was aboutfive leagues, more or less," within the limits of the
known rancho of San Jacinto, "the general plat of which is

