UNITED STATES V. VALLEJO.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

UNITED STATES V. VALLEJO.
As a general rule a warrant for public land should be so located and surveyed that the surplus left to the United States shall be in one connected piece. But a large discretion must be left in this class of cases
to the surveyor, and the rule is not one of universal application.
Hence, in a California case, where the surplus was left in two very
large parcels, one of three tlousand five hundred and the other of two
thousand acres, the rule was held to be controlled by the facts that the
survey was located as desired by the claimant, that it had a reasonably
compact form, and that it included two "adobe houses," probably
twenty years old, now and long inhabited by the heirs of the original
grantee, the present owners of the claim, and one of which houses
would be excluded, if the survey were made in the more usual form.
The court declared that while it is not prepared to say that it will, in
no case, review the discretion which belongs to the surveyor, it does
not hesitate to announce that it will not determine whether this discretion has been exercised with the nicest discriinination or the highest
wisdom.

THIS was a question of a survey of a California Mexican
grant, of two leagues in quantity, to be located within a
larger outboundary, and came by appeal from the District
Court for the Southern District of California. The area of
the larger tract was about three leagues and a third of a
league. It-resembled in shape a sack or purse, and the ranch
was hence called the Bolsa or Sack de San Cayetano.
The United States, appellants in the case, objected to the
survey upon two principal grounds; namely, that the two
leagues of claimant were taken out of the central part of the
sack, leaving to the government the remnant, in two detached
corners; and because the land thus left was not equal in
quality to that which the claimant got.
As regarded the first point, it was true that the land surveyed for the claimant was so taken out as to leave remnants;
one of about three thousand five hundred acres, the other
of about two thousand. As respected the quality of the land,
the surveyor testified that the portion given to the claimant
was of the average quality of the whole sack; parts were
better for some purposes, parts worse. It appeared, however,
that the land had been locted as the claimant desired; that

Dec. 1863.]

UNITED STATES V. VALLEJO.
Opinion of the court.

it was of a form sufficiently compact, and that, as surveyed,
it embraced two "old adobe houses," inhabited now and for
many years by the heirs of the original grantee, the present
owners of the claim.
Mr. WZIls, for the United States.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The objection to the quality of the land does not seem to
be sustained by the testimony. If there be a difference in
quality between the part surveyed and the part left, it must
be too slight to be the subject of consideration here.
It is certainly true that the surplus left to the United States
should have been in one connected piece, if there were not
sufficient reasons to. justify a different course. In all these
locations of a limited quantity within a larger one, many
rules deserve attention. But as some of these may, and often
do conflict with others, they cannot all be observed in every
case.
In the present case the survey is supported:
1. By the fact that it was located as desired by the claimant.
2. That it is in a reasonably compact form.
3. That it includes two old adobe houses, inhabited now
and for many years past by the heirs of the original grantee,
the present owners of the claim.
Both of the first-named two considerations are prominent
among the rules laid down by the Commissioner of the General Land Office for the location of this class of claims.
As respects the third, it appears that if the two leagues
were taken from either end of the sack as claimed by the
government, the one of these houses must be left out. They
were both there when the grant was made, and are, probably,
twenty years old. This raises a strong presumption that the
grant was intended to cover them both.
These reasons, we think, overbalance the inconvenience
of having the surplus left to the United States in two disconnected parcels; especially when one of these parcels contains

660

WHITE V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

as much as three thousand five hundred acres, and the other
about two thousand acres.
Besides, in this class of cases, a large discretion must nece3sarily be left to the surveyor; and while we are not prepared
to say that we will not in any case review the exercise of
that discretion, we have no hesitation in saying that we do
not sit here to determine whether it has been accompanied
with the nicest discrimination, or the highest of wisdom.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

-WHITE V. UNITED STATES.
Where there is no archive evidence of a California grant, and its absence
is unaccounted for, and there has been no such possession as raises an

equity in behalf of the party, and especially where, in addition, the
expediente produced is tainted with suspicions of fraud, the claim must

be rejected.
APPEAL from the District Court for the Northern District
of California; the following case being presented.
The appellant, White, claimed a tract, or rancho of land,
known as San Antonio, under a grant alleged to have been
made to one Antonio Ortega. The United States, appellees
in the suit., claimed it under a grant alleged to have been
made by the same authority to a certain Juan Miranda. One
question, therefore, was as to the validity of the respective
documentary titles thus set up. But this question was complicated by other questions: one of actual occupation, another of agency or representation, and a third of abandonment. Ortega had married the daughter of Miranda, anti
both Ortega and Miranda had occupied the tract,-Miranda
and his family being sometimes in occupation, as Ortega
and his wife were at others; and the additional question
therefore was, whether Ortega was occupying under Miranda,
or Miranda occupying under Ortega,-a question made more
difficult. to solve by the fact that Ortega and his wife were
in hostile relations, leaving it uncertain when she was in pos-

