Dec. 1863.]

BRoxsoN v. LA CROSSE

RAILROAD

Co.

405

Syllabus.
BRONsoN & SOUTTER, Complainants and Appellants, v. TaE
LA CROSSE AND MILWAUKEE RAILROAD Co.; THE MILWAUKEE AND MINNESOTA RAILROAD CO., CHAMBERLAIN ET AL.

[Appeal]

ALSO,

THE MILWAUKEE AND MINNESOTA RAILROAD CO.,
V. SOUTTER,

&c.

who survived BRONSON &

Appellants,
Trustees,

SOUTTER.

[Cross Appeal.]

An act of Congress (July 15, 1862) repealed all
Circuit Court powers given
to certain District Courts of the United States. A subsequent statute
(March 8, 1863) enacted, "That in all cases wherein the District Court
had rendered fnal judgments or decrees prior to the passage of the act,
said District Court shall have power to issue writs of execution, or other
finaZ process, or to use such other powers and proceedings as may be in
accordance with law, to enfirce thejudgments and dccre aforesaid," anything in said act of July 15th, 1862, to the contrary notwithstanding:
1. Held,t. That the District Court acquired only such powers as might be
necessary to insure the execution of any final process that it might
issue; that is to say, such powers as might be necessary to regulate
and control its officers in the execution of their ministerial duties.
ii. That the words "judgments and decrees," within the meaning
of this act, were such judgments and decrees as disposed of the whole
case, so that nothing remained to be done but to issue "'
final process."
ii. That even if the statute in question conferred larger powers,
and gave the court more general jurisdiction over its former cases, such
court could not, pending an appeal by a party in whose favor it had
decreed, exercise them on the application and in favor of such party;
the Supreme Court, however, in order to guard against misconstruction, saying, that where a decree had been rendered affecting property in litigation, the court below, being in custody of such property,
had full power to adopt proper measures to protect it from waste or
loss; and where a railroad was the property, reasonably to apply its
revenues for its conservation, but not to appropriate them beyond
this, and among litigating parties.
2. In a case where this court, after an.examination of very voluminous records, did not doubt that the court below was acting upc a a sincere
conviction that it possessed full power and authority to make certain
orders, which this court now decided that it had made under a misapprehension of its powers, and without authority of law, and that it was
influenced by a high sense of duty, and by what it believed to be for the
best interests of all parties concerned, in what this court characterized
as "a most complicated, difficult, and severely contested cause," and
that it needed but to be advised by the opinion of this court, on a motion

4 "6

BRONSON v. LA CROSSE RAILROAD Co.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
which had been made for a writ of prohibition against it, the said court
below, this court, for the present, withheld the appropriate remedy
giving its opinion that the court below had no jurisdiction, and was act
ing against law, with liberty to counsel to apply hereafter to this court
if necessary. CATROH, J., dissenting.

BRONsoN along with one Soutter had filed their bill in the
District Court of the United States for the District of Wisconsin (the Circuit Court system not being at the time introduced
into that reion, but the District Courts having Circuit Court
powers), to foreclose a mortgage which had been given by
the La Crosse and Milwaukee Railroad Company on a portion
of their road, called the Eastern portion; the i1lilwaukee and
Minnesota Railroad Company being also made defendants in
the suit. The mortgage had been given to secure the holders of bonds which the former company had issued inlarge
amounts. The evidence in the case was very voluminous,
the issues complicated, and the cause severely contested.
The court below had given to it patient investigation. On
the 13th January, 1862, a final decree of foreclosure was entered in the said District Court, in favor of the complainants
in the suit, and an appeal was taken by those complainants
to this court on the 17th of the same month. The lAilwaukee
and Minnesota Railroad Company also, one of the defendants
in the suit, took a cross-appeal on the 14th of September
following.
On the 12th of June, 1863, pending the above appeals, the
District Court entered an order in the cause of Bronson and
Soutter against the companies, &c., on the petition of a third
company, the Milwaukee and St. PaulRailroad Company, not
a party to the suit, directing a receiver, into whose hands the
La Crosse and Milwaukee Railroad and its assets had been
placed, on filing the bill for the foreclosure of the mortgage,
to turn over the road, its appurtenances and rolling stock, to
them, the petitioners; and also directing that this last-named
company, subject to the orders of the court, should operate
this Eastern division of the road (the one covered by the
mortgage), in connection with the Western division; anc ther, that the same company should, out of tle revenu

Dec. 1863.]

BRONSON V.LA CROSSE RAILROAD Co.

4047

Statement of the case.

the road, keep the rolling stock in good order and conditici,
and defiay all running expenses, &c.
On the 5th day of October, 1863, another order was entered
in the same cause, purporting to be on behalf of the appellants, directing that after disbursements of moneys arising
from revenues of the Eastern division of the road to previous
incumbrances and necessary expenses, the receiver pay to
the holders of the bonds secured by the mortgage their proportionate share of the surplus, if any; all such payments to
be credited on the decree of the court in the cause, or on
such decree as might be eventually made, if the present
decree should be reversed or modified; and on the 26th October another order was made directing the receiver to report,
on the first Monday of January, the am6unt of moneys in
his hands after paying previous incumbrances, &c.
A motion was now made in this cause by the appellees in
the first appeal, and appellants in the cross-appeal, to this
court, for a writ of Proldbitionto the District Court, enjoining
it against any further proceedings on the order of the 12th
of June, and of the 5th and 26th of October. The motion
was placed mainly upon the ground that the District Court
possessed no jurisdiction to entertain the motion or to make
the orders; and that its proceedings are coram nonjudice and
void.
The question involved the construction of two acts of Congress: the first passed July 15, 1862,* the second passed
._farch 3, 1863.t
The first act provided for extending the Circuit Court system of the United States to the State of Wisconsin, and
which included it in the Eighth Circuit. One section of this
act-the second-provides that so much of any act of Congress as vests in the District Courts of the United States
(of which the district in question is one) the powers and jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts,. be and the same is hereby
repealed. Another section-the third-provides that all
actions, suits, prosecutions, causes, pleas, process, and other
*12 star. at Large, 57'6.

t 1b., 807.

408

BRONSON V.LA CROSSE RAILROAD CO.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

proceedings, relative to any cause, civil or criminal (which
might or could have been originally cognizable in a Circuit
Court), now pending in or returnableto the several DistrictCourts
(of which the district in question is one), acting as Circuit
Courts, on the first day of October next, shall be and are
hereby declared to be transferable, returnable, and continued to
the Circuit Courts, &c.
[This court had already held, at the last term, in a case in
which the question arose, that the second section repealed
in terms all the Circuit Court powers and jurisdiction of the
District Courts.]
The second of the two acts referred to was entitled "An
act to enable the DistrictCourts of the United States to issue
executions and other final process in certain cases," and provides, "that in all cases wherein the District Courts had rendered final judgments or decrees prior to the passage of the act of
15th July, 1862, and which cases might have been brought
in the Circuit Courts, the District Courts shall have power
to issue writs of execution or other final process, or to use
such other powers and proceedings as may be in accordance with
law, to enforce thejudgments and decrees."
Against the motion it was argued that the act of July, 1862the first act-gave the District Court, in terms, the right not
only to issue writs of execution and other final process, but
the right to use such "other powers and proceedings" as would
enforce decrees which they had rendered prior to July 15,
1862; that the decree of foreclosure in this case was rendered
prior to that date,-was made on the 13th of January pre.
ceding,-more, therefore, than six months prior; that it came
accordingly within the very terms of the act.
Mr. Carpenter,contra.
Mr. Justice NELSON, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court:
The question involves the construction of two acts of Congress.
After the decision of this court at the last term, it cannot

Dec. 1863.] BRoNsoN v. LA CROSSE RAILROAD CO.

409

Opinion of the court.

be pretended that the District Court possessed any power,
after the act of 15th July went into effect, to grant the orders
complained of, unless it is found in the subsequent act of 3d
March. 1863.
It is supposed that the orders are warranted by the 'ast
clause of the act, namely, "or to use such other powers and
proceedings as may be in accordance with law, to enforce the
judgments and decrees." We do not agree to this construction. The obvious meaning and intention of this clause is,
to provide for the use and exercise of such powers as might
be necessary, after the issuing of execution or other final
process, in order to insure the execution of the process; such
as are necessary to regulate and control the ministerial duties
of officers in the execution of final process. The exercise of
such powers are frequently necessary, and are familiar to the
profession and the courts, and when authority was given to
the District Courts under this act to issue execution on final
judgments or decrees that had already been rendered in
their courts, it was fit and proper to confer this additional
power, otherwise the final process mightbe unavailable. But
if other powers, beyond the enforcement of the ministerial,
duties of the officers, in the execution of final process, become
necessary, recourse must be had to the jurisdiction of the
Circuit Court. We are also of opinion that, according to the
true construction of the act, the judgments or decrees there
referred to are those disposing of the whole case, so that
nothing is left to be done but to issue the final process; that
if any proceedings remain to be taken for the purpose of completing the final disposition of it, the case or suit pending is
not one within the provisions of the act. It belongs to the
cognizance of the Circuit Court.
" Another reason why this particular case is not within the
provisions of the act of the 3d larch is, that the District
Court, even if it had jurisdiction of the proceedings, would
not be warranted in taking any steps in the executioi of the
decree in favor of the appellants. They having appealed
from the decree, it would be against all reason and principle
to pp.rmit them to proceed in the execution of it, pending the

410

BoxsoN

v. LA CROSSE RAILROAD CO.

[SUp. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

appeal. They assert the decree is founded in error, and for
that reason should not be executed, but should be reversed
and corrected in the appellate tribunal. The appeal suspends
ihe execution of the decree. This is not a case where security is to be given in order to supersede the execution. That
rule applies in cases where the decree or judgment is against
the party appealing, and who desires to suspend the issuing
of execution by the adverse party until the appeal is heard
and determined. It is true that the adverse party in this
cause has entered a cross-appeal, but, as the appeal already
taken had superseded the execution, a bond in the crossappeal would have been an act of supererogation. It would
have been otherwise if the complainants, in whose favor the
decree was rendered in the court below, had not appealed.
To guard against misconstruction in respect to the powers
of a court having jurisdiction over the subject-matter, and
where a decree has been rendered affecting the property in
litigation-the road in this case- and an appeal is taken to
this court, as the property in controversy is not brought into
the appellate tribunal, but remains in the custody and care
,of the court below, it is agrecd that full power exists in that
court, pending the appeal, to adopt all proper and judicious
measures to protect and preserve it from waste or loss. For
this reason there can be no well-founded objection in the
present case to the running of the road, and the reasonable
application and expenditure of its revenues for that purpose.
Beyond this, any appropriation of the revenues is not warranted. They should be reserved for such disposition as
may be directed by the final decree in the cause.
For the reasons above given, we are entirely satisfied, on
the facts set forth in support of this motion, and upon which
it is founded, that the District Court has not only misconstrued its powers under the acts of Congress in question, but
has overlooked the effect of the appeal from the decree in
their f9%vor by the complainants below in the first entitled
canse, and is acting under that decree upon a misapprehension of its powers, and without authority of law.
The only remaining question in the case is as to the proper

Dec. 1863.] BRoNsoN v. LA CRossE RAILROAD CO

411

Opinion of Catron, J.

remedy to be applied. We do not doubt but that the learned
court below is acting upon a sincere conviction that it possesses full power and authority to make the several orders
complained of, and that it is influenced by a high sense of
duty, and what is believed to be for the best interest of all
parties concerned in this most complicated, difficult, and
severely contested cause, and that it needs but to be advised
by the opinion of this court on the motion, to conform to the
views of the court as there expressed. For the present,
therefore, we shall withhold the appropriate remedy, with
liberty to the counsel to apply hereafter to the court if necessary in the matter.
Mr. Justice CATRON:
1. I agree that no writ of prohibition ought to issue on this
cause, and that the motion for such writ must be refused.
2. As to the advice proffered in the court below, I do not
agree. There are no facts before us on which we can, judicially, make any order binding the parties or the District
Court, nor is any motion before us calling for action on the
part of this court, except the motion for a writ of prohibition. I am, therefore, unwilling to give any opinion (or
rather advice), offered by the majority of the court.
NOTE.
Besides the branches of the case presented as in the preceding pages,
another part of the case, involving chiefly questions of fact, and among
these largely questions of accounts and of fraud-the fact part, as we may
style it, of the controversy-was heard and decided in an equity suit at this
term. It is this part of the case which, in connection with the discussion
upon it, invited, probably, the characterization above given of the suit as a
".most complicated, difficult, and severely contested cause." The record of
the case filled more than one thousand large 8vo. pages, of small pica type,
set "solid;" a record, therefore, itself greatly larger than the whole of the
present volume. The discussion of the case, too, by counsel, consumed no
small fraction of a five months' term. The Reporter presumes that he need
make but slight apology for not reporting this part of the case.

