Dec. 1863.]

PoEtoy's LESSEE V.

BANK OF INDIANA.

2"

Statement of the case.

PommtoY's LESSEE V. THE

STATE BANK OF INDIANA.

Where the charter of a bank provided that the bank should itself continue
till January 1, 1859; with a proviso that all banking powers should cease
after January 1, 1857, "ezept those ineidenW and necessa?j to collect
and close up business;" a motion, in 1862, to dismiss a writ of error in
which the bank was defendantI was refused.

A STATUTE of Indiana passed in 1834, enacted as follows:
"1That there shall be and is hereby created and established
a State Bank, to be known and styled the ' State Bank of
Indiana,' and shall continue as such until the first day of January, dghteen hundred and fifty-nine." The charter further
provided, that all banking powers should cease after thefirst day
of .Ianuary, 1857, "except those incidental and necessary to collect and close up its business."
In 1849, the bank being in possession of certain real estate,
was sued in ejectment, and the suit, in December, 1862,
being still pending on writ of error, in this court, which writ
had been allowed in December, 1861, H. TW. Chase, Esquire,
signing himself Attorney for the State Bank of Indiana, in the
Circuit Court for the IDistrict of Indiana, asked for the abatement of the writ upon the following suggestion, to wit: "That
since the trial of the above entitled cause in the Circuit Court
for the District of Indiana, and before the prosecution of the
writ of error in this behalf-to wit, on the first day of January, A.D. 1859,-the said State Bank of Indiana, named as
defendant in error in said cause, being a corporation created
and organized in the State of Indiana by the authority of an
Act of the Legislature thereof, was dissolved and ceased to
exist as such corporation, by reason of the expiration of the
eltartergranted to said State Bank of Indiana."
Rh support of this motion, he argued: The dissolution of the
bank by expiration of its charter leaves no defendant; rnd
the writ must abate. Angell and Ames* state it as text law
that "upon the dissolution of a corporation in any mode,'"
"all suits pending for or against it, abate." They cite, in
* On Corporations, a 779.

24

PoERoy's LESSEE V. BANK OF INDIANA.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in favor of dismissal.

support of this statement, various cases* which sustain the
position. Lindell v. Benton,t referred to in the note by them,
as announcing a contrary doctrine, mertly decides that the
dissolution of a corporation after an attachment against it
has been sued out, and its debtor garnished,will not operate to
deprive the attachment plaintiff of a vested right in the
money in the hands of the garnishee to satisfy his debt. In
this case the bank itself expires in 1859. Banking powers
may exist indefinitely for the purpose of closing up business.
But the capacity to defend a suit is not a banking power. The
expression has reference to the renewal of notes, &c., the
payment of outstanding bank bills and the like.
The writ of error here is an original writ, issuing, in effect,
out of this court, to bring up the record of a cause that
alleged errors may be examined, and the judgment affirmed
or reversed as the law may require.1 The parties in the
inferior court, or their heirs or representatives, must be
parties here,-and to that end must be duly cited. It is true,
that an attorney cannot withdraw his name fiom a cause,
after final judgment, so as to avoid the service of the citation.
But the death of his client revokes his authority to appear,
and the service of a citation upon him thereafter is a nullity.
A rule of this court§ provides against the abatement of
causes in error or on appeal between natural persons, by
authorizing the heirs or legal representatives, as the character of the subject-matter of the litigation may require, to be
made parties. But here is a corporation, civilly dead, leaving no heirs or representatives-no party upon whom process
can be served, or to whom notice can be given, or on whom
the judgment can operate. This is not the first instance
where parties have failed to obtain the aid of this court to
correct alleged errors, because there was no provision of law
whereby the cause could be brought properly before the

court.j
* Merrill v. Suffolk Bank, 31 Maine, 57; Saltmarsh v. Planters' &c. Bank,
17 Alabama, 761 ; and Greeley v. Smith, 8 Story, 657.
t" 6 Missouri, 361.

+ 2 Tidd's Practice, 1134; Conkling's Treatise, 686.

a Rule 15.

II Hunt v.

Palao, 4 Howard, 589.

Dec. 1863.]

CLEARWATER V. MEREDITH.

25

Opinion of the court.

Messrs. Traphagen, Brady, and Carlisle, contra.
Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the court:
I am instructed by the court to announce it to be its opi.
nion that there can be no abatement of the case upon the
counsel's suggestion, as it is declared in the charter of the
bank, that though its charter should continue as such until
the first day of January, 1859, and that all its banking powers
should cease after the first day of January, 1857; that it
should have all the "necessary and incidental powers to collect and close up its business," within which we deem the
rights of the plaintiff in this court to be comprehended.
MOTION REFUSED.

CLEARWATER V. MEREDITH ET AL.
I The statute of Indiana, passed February 23, 1858, which authorizes connecting railroad corporations to merge and consolidate their stock, and
make one joint company of the roads thus connected, causes, when the
consolidation is effected-as is declared by the Supreme Court of the
State, in Me31-ahonv. Morrison (16 Indiana, 172)-a dissolution of the
previous companies, and creates a new corporation with new liabilities
derived from those which have passed out of existence. Hence, where
the declaration avers that the defendant had agreed that stock of a particular railroad in Indiana should be worth a certain price at a certain
time and in a certain place, and the plea sets up that under the above
mentioned statute of February 23,1853, the stock of the railway named
was merged and consolidated by the consent of the 2arty suing, with a
second railway named; so forming "one joint stock company of the
said two corporations," under a corporate name stated, such plea is good,
though it does not aver that the consolidation was done without the
consent of the defendants. And a replication which tenders issue upon
the destruction of the first company and upon the fact that its stock is
destroyed, rendered worthless, and of no value, traverses a conclusion
of law, and is bad.
2. Such a plea as that just mentioned contains two points, and , wo points
only, which the plaintiff can traverse,-the fact of consolidation an.
the fact of consent; and these must be denied separately. If denied
together, the replication is double, and bad.
3. When a plaintiff replies to a plea, and his replication being demurred to,
is held to be insufficient, and he withdraws that replication and substitutes a new one-the substituted one being complete in itself, not referring to or making part of the one which preceded-he waives the right

