604

SPAIN V. HAMILTON'S ADMINISTRATOR.

[Sup.

Ct.

Syllabus.

judgment. Where a case is brought here upon a writ of
error, issued under the twenty-second section of the Judiciary Act, and there is no bill of exceptions, agreed statemert, or special verdict in the transcript, the general rule is,
that the judgment will be affirmed, as is shown by repeated
decisions. Suydam v. Williamson, 20 How., 441; Minor v.
Tillotson, 2 Id., 892; Kelsey v. Forsyth, 21 Id., 85; Guild v.
.Frontin,18 Id., 135; Stevens v. Gladding, 19 Id., 64; Taylor v.
Morton, 2 Black, 484.
In the case last cited, this court said that when a cause is
brought into this court upon a writ of error sued out under
the twenty-second section of the Judiciary Act, and all the
proceedings are regular and correct, it follows, from the
express words of the section, that the judgment of the court
below must be affirmed, although there is no question presented in the record for revision.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is, therefore,
AFFIRMED WITH COSTS.

SPAIN v. HAMILTON'S ADMINISTRATOR.

1. A transfer by a party of his "right and claim for any commission or corpensation for services rendered, or to be rendered to any body corporate,"
in a class of claims mentioned generally in the transfer, is not such an
assignment, even in equity, of a compensation subsequently earned, as
will give the transfer priority against junior assignees (without notice)
of portions of a fund designated and appropriated to answer this claim:
the case being one where, on the one hand, the older transferee did not
make inquiries as to what body corporate the claim for commissions
was against, and did not give notice of the paper executed in his favor,
to such body corporate, nor to a third party to whom this body, subsequently to the older transfer, but prior to the junior ones, devoted a
fund to answer these commissions; and where, on the other hand, the
junior transferees did make exact inquiries and obtain precise evidences
and accurate information as to the fund from which the commissions
were to be derived, and did immediately notify to the party then holding the fund, the nature and extent of their claims, and did generally
take measures to prever t all other persons being misled by the supposition that the fund still remained in the power of the party who had
transferred this claim ior -omwm.-ions upon it. Such an assignment

Dec. 1863.]

SPAin v. HAmiLToN'S ADMINISTRATOR.

605

Statement of the case.
as the one first above mentioned, is a blind assignment, and the party
claiming under it cannot come into equity for priority against even
junior assignees in a case where the claims of these last are on a fund
specifically; and are moreover precise, well understood, and have been
vigilantly protected.
2 The general doctrine of equity, that a party complaining of usury can
have relief only for the excess above lawful interest, applies to the case
of a person standing in the position of a claimant through bill in equity
of priority on a fund, another claimant upon which, as defendant, is
the alleged usurer. The fact that the suit is a mere contest between
different parties for a fund, and a contest, therefore, in which each
claimant may, in some senses, be considered an actor, does not force the
alleged usurer into the position of a complainant or plaintiff, and so expose him to the penalty incurred by a person seeking as plaintiff to
recover a usurious debt; that is to say, to the loss of the entire claim.
8. Where the promise to pay a sum above legal interest depends upon a
contingency, and not upon any happening of a certain event, the loan
is not usurious. Nor will usurious interest be inferred from a paper which,
while referring to payment of a sum above the legal interest, is "uncertain and so curious," that intentional bad device cannot be affirmed.
MILLzR and SWAYiTE, JJ., dissented in this case.

THIS was a bill in equity, filed in the Circuit Court for the
District of Columbia, by S. Spain, guardian of Mrs. McRae,
a lunatic, against the administrator of the late James Hamilton, of South Carolina and Texas, extensively known as
"General James Ha'milton," and against Corcoran and Riggs,
Hill, and others; the said bill claiming priority in the distribution of a fund in the Treasury of the United States, ori
ginally belonging to Hamilton, and arising by the assumption
of the United States, in September, 1850, of certain debts of
the Republic of Texas, which fund, or the source of it rather,
Hamilton, having become embarrassed and insolvent, had
assigned in divers ways and to various extents to different
persons, parties plaintiff and defendant in this suit.
The case in its outlines as proved, or by agreements made in
the ease admitted, was essentially this: the leading facts being derived from the stating part of the opinion of the
leained Justice (WAYNE, J.) who delivered the judgment of
the court.
The Republic of Texas, prior to its annexation to the
United States, had issued a large number of bonds, which

606

SPAiN v. HA]MILTON'S ADmINISTRATOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

were due, unpaid, and the subject of speculation and purchase
in different parts of the Union. Hamilton, who held a considerable amount of the bonds, had become familiar with the
affairs of Texas, and especially with all that related to its
debts, and was anticipating that if that republic was annexed
to the United States, those debts would all be paid. He became, accordingly, an active and energetic advocate of annexation. The trustees of the Bank of the United States
also owned a large amount of the bonds. But these had
been pledged, in a greatly depreciated state, to a certain
Wetmore, one of the defendants, as security for a loan which
he had made to the bank. If, however, the bonds should
be paid, enough would be obtained to pay the debt due by
the bank to Wetmore, and leave a large surplus remaining.
And Hamilton, being already the agent of some of the
bondholders, and desirous to have the agency for others,
applied to the trustees of the bank to represent them. On
the 16th of October, 1845, the trustees accordingly wrote
Hamilton a letter, in which, adverting to his knowlcdge of
the fact that they had "now only a contingent, resilting
interest in the bonds, dependent upon the payment by us qf the
amount for which they are now held by Mr, Wetmore in pleage,"
they say as follows:
"If you will devote your best efforts to securing the recognition and payment of said claims, and your effort shall be successful, then we agree to allow you a commission of 10 per cent. on
whatever sum or amount of our claim, through your instrumentality, shall be recognized and paid over to us, over and above
the amount for which the said bonds are pledged. The limitation of time during which this agreement on our part can with
certainty be continued is only to the 20th of March next ensuing; but we are willing, with the concurrence of Mr. Wetmore,
or in case we should then or sooner obtain the entire control of
those bonds and securities now in his hands, to extend the said
time to two years from this date."
The 20th of March, the first limitation, passed without the
recognition by Texas of its bonds, and without the payment

Dec. 1863.]

SPAIN V. HAIILTON'S ADmINISTRATO .

607

Statement of the case.

of the debt due by the bank to Wetmore. Of course Wetmore's legal right to retain the Txas bonds was continued,
and Hamilton was left without any claim upon the bank for
commission or compensation under the agreement.
On the 16th September, 1850, however, the trustees wroto
to Wetmore a letter, reciting that Hamilton had rendered his
services, as he had agreed, "so far as in his power, without
however realizing the money;" and then referring to an act
of Congress recently passed for the payment, in part, of the
Texas bonds, among which the trustees had been "informed
by General Hamilton, are the bonds held by them," the letter
goes on as follows:
"The trustees, at the particular request of General Hamilton,
have instructed me to say to you, if they should not have previously
redeemed the bonds, that upon the final adjustment and payment
of the said bonds first above mentioned, either by the Treasury
of the United States, in the manner provided for in said act of
Congress or otherwise, to the satisfaction of the said trustees,
pursuant to their said agreement with General Hamilton, you
will be pliased to hold, subject to the order of General James Hamilton, one-tenth of any sum over and above the amount of your claim
against the said bonds."
This claim of Wetmore, originally £50,000 sterling, had,
at the date of this letter, been reduced by payments from the
bank to $55,493.24, with interest from December 9th, 1842.
Upon the bottom of this letter of 16th September, 1850,
Wetmore, on presentation of the same to him, wrote as follows:
"In conformity wi i the above order, I will, when received by
me, pay over to James Hamilton, or to his order, the tenth of
the money or stock that may be received either at Austin, Texas,
or at Washington, D. C., on the above certificates, subject, however, to the conditions of -the above order, and to a lien I hold by
assignmentfor $2500, which sum I loaned General Hamilton in AuW. S. WE.TMORE."
gust last, with interest.
Between the dates of the letters to Hamilton and that to
Wetmore-that is to say, on the 12th February, 1850,---

608

SPAIN V. HAMILrON's ADMINISTRATOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

Hamilton, who, as former trustee of' Mrs. McRae already
mentioned, had become indebted to her estate, and was now
under arrest for the debt,-executed a paper to her succeeding trustee or committee, Spain, the complainant, which purported to secure this debt. It "transferred, assigned and
made over" to Spain, committee, &c.,
"All my right and claim for any commission or compensationfor
services rendered or to be rendered by me to any and every other
person and body corporatein the prosecution of any claim or claims
for any and every such person and body corporate on the government of Texas, subject to any previous assignment thereof."
As illustrating the special temper and character of Hamilton, referred to by the court and indicated in the record, it
may be mentioned that his debt to Mrs. McRae had arisen
from a misappropriation of the funds of her estate in his
hands as trustee. " Consulting," as his answer said, "the
suggestions rather of a sanguine temperament than the admonitions of experience," he had invested about $50,000 of
her property "in one of the finest and most promising sugar
estates in Texas, supposed to be an investment surpassed by
none in the United States;" which, in the end, however, the
answer proceeded to state, "yielded more sap than sugar," and
being sold on first incumbrances, did not bring enough to
pay them.
When Hamilton proposed to give the transfer, he made no
mention of any Texas bondholders whom he represented,
nor did he state that the bonds of the bank were held in
pledge by Wetmore; nor did Spain-or rather the person
who was acting for him (the arrangement having been made
by a third party in his behalf),-make the least inquiry, so far
as appeared, from Hamilton, as to any of these things, nor was
notice ever given to the bank about it. It did not appear
that Spain knew anything about it until long after.
This was the claim for which priority on the fund was
asserted by the bill filed. The opposing claims were as fol.
lows:

1. A claim of Wetmore, himself, to the extent of $2500, for

Dec. 1863.]

SPAIN V. HAMILTON'S ADMINISTRATOR.

609

Slatement of the case.

money which, by an agreed statement in the case, it was
conceded that he had lent to Hamilton on the 80th August,
1850, being the debt referred to in the paper mentioned ante,
p. 607, signed by him at the bottom of the letter from the
trustees to him of 16th September, 1850, and for which, as
he there states, he had taken an assignment at the time.
2. A claim of (orcoran &.Riggs, of Washington. Hamilton
needing money in that city had applied to these persons,
bankers there, for $25,000. They advanced the sum to him
on the 21st September, 1850, taking an order from him on
Wetmore for $30,000, "to be paid out of the first moneys
received after your claims shall have been satisfied;" which
order Corcoran & Riggs immediately transmitted to Wetmore,
who, on the 24th of the same month, "accepted" it.
8. A claim by the etate of one Hill, made partly under an
original claim, and partly by subrogation to the rights of
James Robb & Co. As far back as 1848, Hamilton, reciting
that the trustees of the Bank of the United States had agreed
to pay him a commission of 10 per cent. on somewhere about
a million of dollars, &c., assigned one-half of" all his interest
and property in the commission," in trust for Hill, a creditor
and friend. In regard to this, it did not appear that notice
had been given to any one, and the history of the whole
transaction, Hill being dead, was not very clear. The claim,
so far as it arose from substitution to a claim of James Robb
& Co., was plainer, and thus: Hamilton owing Robb a large
sum, made, on the 80th April, 1851, a transfer of the "order"
of 16th September, 1850, by the trustees of the bank on
Wetmore, and by him accepted; the order being subject,
as was stated in the transfer, to the claim of Wetmore, himself, for $2500, and to that of Corcoran & Riggs for $30,000.
-Robbwrote immedidtely to Wetmore, saying to him:
"We have taken an assignment from General James Hamilton of his residuary interest in an order, &c., of the Bank of the
United States, addressed to you, dated September 16th, 1850.
Be pleased to mahe a note ef this assignment, a notarial copy of
which we will send to you, and hold the claim subject to our order,
or that of W. Hoge & Co."
VOL. 1.

89

610

SPAIN v. HAMILTON'S ADMINISTRATOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

This letter and the notarial copy were received by Wet.
more, who at once acknowledged their receipt to W. Hoge
& Co. The history of the substitution of Hill is told by the
following letter, which was duly received and preserved by
Wetmore.
NEw O LEANS, 28th May, 1853.

SIR: Having confided in Gen'l Hamilton's promises
until our patience became exhausted with their continued violation, we commenced suit, and obtained judgment and seizure
against sundry securities pledged, including the residuary interest on the Texas claim you hold, after the payment of the
advances made by yourself and Mr. Corcoran. Mr. H. R. W.
Hill, of this city, who is a large creditor of General Hamilton,
in order to secure the margin of securities covered by our judgment and seizure, has arranged to liquidate our claim against
Hamilton, and we shall therefore subrogate him, Mr. Eill, to our
interest in the Texas debt represented by you.
Very respectfully, your ob't serv't,
MY DEAR

JAMES ROBB.
W.

S. WETMORE.

On the day previous to the date of this letter, Hamilton
had executed to Hill, he present and accepting, an assignment of the order previously conveyed to Robb, and now
by him surrendered.
So far as respected these three claims, in their common
outlines alike, and there being nothing to show that the
claimants in any one of them had the least knowledge of the
paper executed by Hamilton to Spain, any more than Spain
had of what was going on between them.
The claim of Corcoran & Riggs was, however, embarrassed
by evidence not common to the other two claims, and was
the subject in the bill of a charge of usury. At the time the
money was advanced, a paper, drawn by Hamilton and in
his writing, was executed by him and by Corcoran for his
firm, as follows:
[Private and confidential.]

The following memorandum agreement witnesseth: That
Messrs. Corcoran & Riggs have agreed to loan James Hamilton,

on a certain order of the trustees of the Bank of the TUnited

Jec. 1868.]

SPAIN V. HAMILTON'S ADMINISTRATOR.

61

Statement of the case.

States on William Wetmore, Esq., of New York, $25,000, at an
interest of 6 p. a., reimbursable on the payment of its public debt,
on his order on William Wetmore for $30,000.
In case J. Eamilton does not procure Mlessrs. Corcoran & Riggs
the agency at Washington for the settlement of said debt, then J.
Hamilton is to allow a commission on the loan of $2000, to be added
to the interest of 6 p. c. The balance of the said $30,000 is to be
credited to J. Hamilton's account on final settlement.
This contract is not in prejudice of a liberal remuneration
which Messrs. Corcoran & Riggs have agreed to allow J. Hamilton in the event of procuring said agency.

3.

HAMiLTON.
CORCORAN & RIGGS.

WASENGTON, Sept. 21, 1850.

As to this paper, the answer of Corcoran said that it was
executed at "Hamilton's instance and request, and after the
whole matter of the said loan had been fully consummated;"
that, neither suspecting nor conscious of any illegal motive
or stipulation, they readily signed the said memorandum
without noticing its terms, or having their attention at all
drawn to the artful manner in which it appears to be expressed; that even after the controversies involved in this
suit had arisen, they had readily furnished the copy of said
memorandum upon which the said charge of usury was
based, and that the loan was entered on their books as a
loan of $25,000, at 6 p. c. As respected the proposed agency,
their answer said as follows:
"The said Hamilton had proposed to procure for defendants
the agency at Washington for the settlement of the Texas debt,
stipulating at the same time that he should have a ' liberal compensation' from them should he succeed in so doing, as it was
supposed that such agency would be profitable to these defendants in their business of bankers. In. order to accomplish this
object, of which the said .Hamilton appeared to be very confident,
he repiesented that it would be necessary for him to go to Texas,
provided with the influence of certain persons, who were in
friendly relations with these defendants and disposed to oblige
them; and to induce them to exert themselves in the premises,
and to confide in his assurances that he could and would procure

612

SPAIN V. HIAMILTON's ADMnIISTRATOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

such agency, he proposed that he would pay to them the sum
of $2000 il he failed in his undertaking, which, on the other
hand, if he succeeded, he should have from them a ' liberal compensation.' It was t.is mattor, and this only, which the said
Hamilton represented it expedient to keep 'private and confidential,' from motives entirely personal to himself. These defendants accordingly did put themselves to considerable inconvenience in providing the said Hamilton with the means of
procuring said agency, in the profits of which he was to participate. But they repeat that the said arrangement was altogether
distinct from the said loan, and was in its nature wholly contingent, and was no part of the consideration of the said loan, which
-was at 6 per cent. interest only. And that the said Hamilton
himself so .considered it, is shown by the manner in which he
refers to it in the original letter from him to them, now produced."
This letter expressed a wish to make some arrangement
in regard to the security of the loan of $25,000, "preserving
our contingent contract inviolate in good faith."
Some reference to dates, in connection with the public
history of Texas and of its admission into the Union, was
given by the learned judge who delivered the opinion, and
this, with a statement of the parties' knowledge and proceedings in connection therewith, will give a perfectly full
view of the case.
On the 1st March, 1845, Congress passed an act for the
admission of Texas into the Union, and an ordinance having
been passed July 4th of that year, accepting the conditions
proposed by Congress; a joint resolution was passed the
same year, declaring Texas admitted. On the 20th March,
1848, the State of Texas itself passed an "act for ascertaining the debts of the late republic," and with a view, as was
generally understood, of their being ultimately assumed by
the Federal Government. This act required creditors to file
their bonds with the auditor and controller of the State. Two
years afterwards, that is to say, September 9, 1850, Congress passed an act, declaring that it would issue for Texas
$10,000,000 in stock bonds; provided, however, that 'no more

Dec. 1863.]

SPAix v. HAmILTOx'S ADMINISTRATOR.

613

Statement of the case.

than a portion of the fund should be issued until the creditors of Texas holding its bonds and certificates should file in
the Treasury releases of all claims against the United States
on their account. It was prescribed that the secretary
should give notice, by advertisement for ninety days, of the
time for payment of the Texas bonds on which releases had
been made, and that no payment would be made on those
which had not been presented thirty days before the time
appointed for payment. All the legislation and government's action upon it to consummate its intention was
known, of course, by persons interested in the payment of
Texas bonds, and as appeared by the complainant's bill,
were known to the appellant, Spain.
Spain did not take steps to secure his bonds until the 18th
June, 1851. Being then in Galveston, he at that time, and
as his bill stated, "with a view to make his assignment
effectual, and to fasten notice thereof upon the government
of Texas," caused a certified copy of the assignment to him,
addressed .to the Treasurer of Texas at Austin, its capital,
to be deposited in the post-office. Mr. May, also, a connection and friend of Mrs. McRae, acting for Spain, prior to the
9th September, 1851, and in accordance with public notice
given 22d March of that year to the creditors of Texas, "notified to the Secretary of the Treasury of the United States
the transfer to Spain," with a view to prevent the payment
of the claim so transferred to anybody other than the said
Spain. Both these notices were received at the departments
to which they were sent.
Under the act of the Texas legislature Wetmore fi4ed his
bonds, on the 9th of November, 1849, and getting certificates of debt, which he lodged at the earliest day with the
Treasurer of the United States. The original Texas bonds
had been delivered to. him by the bank when he made his
loan, and had always remained in his possession and control. And a portion of his debt being still unpaid, the certificates issued by the United States in lieu of the Texas
bonds, were made out to him and in his name; he having
stated, however, in an affidavit filed at the Treasury in Wash-

614

SPAiN- v. HAmILTON's ADMINISTRATOR.

[SUp. Ct.

Statement of the case.

ington, on which they were issued, that as to one-tenth he
had no claim except for $2500, and stated also the exact history of the orders of Corcoran & Riggs, and of Robb, with
the substitution of Hill, upon him. On the 11th April, 1854
(subsequently to the certificates being thus made out.), the
bamk paid the balance of its debt; and Wetmore immediately transferred to them nine-tenths of the new or substituted certificates. The remaining one-tenth, amounting
to $72,505.12, was still in the Treasury of the United States,
and it was this which was the subject of dispute for priority;
the sum being large enough to pay Wetmore, Corcoran &
Riggs, and Hill as substituted to Robb, but not large enough
to pay them and Spain also.
It was agreed by counsel "that for the purpose of ascertaining the several parties to this controversy, and the origin
and character of the fund claimed by them, that the fund now
in the Treasury of the United States, amounting to $72,505.12,
became due and payable to Hamilton under an agreement
entered into by the Bank of the United States, which is evidenced by the two letters of the trustees of the 16th October, 1845, to Hamilton, and 16th September, 1850, to Wetmore." Several other agreements were made, the substance
of which is presented in the case as already stated. Good
faith and conformity to the instructions of the letter to Wetmore were considered by the court, in stating the facts of the
case, to be conceded to him in accepting Hamilton's order
in favor of Corcoran & Riggs; and there was no evidencebut on the other hand the contrary of it-that either Wetmore, ~orcoran & Riggs, Robb or Hill had knowledge of
the paper executed 12th February, 1850, to Spain, till 10th
May, 1856 (about the time the bill was filed), when Wetmore heard of it.
The court below held that the letter of the trustees to
.Ha_1lton(the letter of 16th October, 1845), gave him no lien
on the Texas bonds for his commissions, but "only a per
sonal claim against the bank for his ten per cent. ;" that,
accordingly, "the notice of the complainant to Texas was
void;" that the legal title of the one-tenth under mort

Dec. 1863.]

SPAIN v. HA0LToN's ADMINISTRATOR.

615

Argument for the appellant.

gage, and the letter of the trustees to Wetmore of the 9th
of September, 1850, with the assent, and at the request of
Hamilton, was in Wetmore, and was not intended to be reconveyed; that the condition in the letter to Wetmore,
by which any reverter on payment of the mortgage debt
could be claimed, was for the benefit of the bank only; and
that by accepting the deed of 11th April, 1854, for the ninetenths, they renounced any such benefit as to the remaining
one-tenth; that from the 16th September, 1860, Wetmore
was trustee to pay Hamilton's debts. The court decreed
that they should be paid in this order:
1. Wetmore's own $2500 with interest from date of loan.
2. Corcoran & Riggs's $30,000,-this sum being less thai'
the $25,000 lent with interest on it.
3. Hill, assignee of Robb, his debt with interest.
Any balance was ordered to be reported into court.
It was from this decree that the appeal came to the Su
preme Court
Mlessrs. Brent and Bradley, for Spain, the appellant: By the
terms of the bank's letter to Wetmore, the direction to "hold
subject to the order of General James Hamilton," &c., was
made expressly subject to the proviso, "if the trustees have
not previously (i. e. previously to the ' final adjustment and
payment') redeemed the bonds," and Wetmore's acceptance
was subject to the conditions of the order. Now the trustee
did previously redeem the bonds, and thus carried away the
entire basis on which Wetmore's "acceptance" of the order
of Corcoran & Riggs, and of the notification by Robb, was
based. The payment of the debt determined the special
title of the pawnee.* The bonds became the property of the
bank. All that Wetmore did to keep the one-tenth in his
zwn hands he did of his own head and to protect his $2500,
which he could not otherwise secure. Of what use, then,
were notices to Wetmore? If notices to any one were obligatory it was to the bank. It is not pretended that any
one of the appellees gave notice to it or to its trustee.
* Rateliff v. Davis, Noy, 137.

616

SPAIN V. HAMILTON'S ADMINISTRATOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the appellant.

The assignment of 1848 to Hill was anever notified even to
Wetmore, and if it had been the notice would have been
valueless, since the assignment was itself merged by Hill's
acceptance of the subsequent assignment to Robb. Each
one of the assignments set up is, therefore, subsequent to
the meritorious and interesting one in favor of Mrs. McRae.
It is no answer to our claim to say that by the terms of our
assignment.we took subject to "any previous assignment,"
for there was no previous "assignment."
Equitable assignees take in order of time, unless where by superior diligence a junior assignee has secured an advantage.* When
Hamilton made the assignment to Spain, he had assigned to
nobody but Hill, which assignment is not now in our way,
having been merged, if, indeed, it existed. We neither
asked about other assignments, nor did he speak of them,
for none others then existed. There is no evidence that any
were contemplated, and if they were it was unimportant,
since they would be subsequent ones, and subject to ours, as
ours had been to "any previous."
The debtor was, first, the State of Texas, and subsequently
the United States. To both notice was given. Here were
no laches, but on the contrary, in both cases, diligence.
Even admitting Wetmore to hold a legal title, we deny that
the subsequent assignees have a prior equity, unless Spain
was guilty of laches in giving notice to Wetmore, after the
former had knowledge where this legal title was; a ad this is
not shown. A prior assignee is not postponed by a failure
to give notice, unless guilty of fraud or of gross neglect.
The subsequent assignee takes subject to the prior equities.
As to Wetmore's claim for $2500, he notified it to no one.
The order of the bank to him was to accept in one way: he
accepted in another, for his own benefit; and he gives no
notice to the bank of his departure from the terms on which
they had asked him to accept. He has notice, at any rate,
2 Leading Cases in Equity, by Hare & Wallace, part 2d, p. 218, ed. of
1852, note to rlow v. Dawson, &c.; Berry v. Mtutual Insurance Co., 2 Johnson's Chancery
9.

Dec. 1863.]

SPAIN V.HAMILTON'S ADMINISTRATOR.

617

Argument for the appellees.

of our older claim, prior to his getting the money from the
United States, and is bound to postpone himself.
As to Corcoran & Riggs, their claim is usurious on its
face; and even supposing Spain to be postponed by their'
prior notice to Wetmore, he may drive them out entirely by
the illegality of their loan. The right to object is not personal to the borrower.* Suppose Corcoran & Riggs had
filed a cross-bill here. Could we not object? •Can they,
then, vary our rights by assuming the position of a defendant, and asking only to be let alone.? In Scott v. 1esbittt
which may be thought to oppose our view, the party sought
to vacate a judgment on the usurious debt. We do not desire
to destroy any legal advantage obtained by these persons.
It is they who seek to postpone our prior equity.
So far, therefore, as Wetmore, or, indeed, anybody else,
sets up other assignments as entitled to priority over ours,
they become actors, and the court must decide on priorities
to the fund. We caiinot assent to the proposition, that because Wetmore intends to pay a usurious claim to one who
declines to file a cross-bill for fear of the plea of usury, and
through Wetmore and the grounds taken in his answer
becomes an actor and claimant of the fund, therefore the
holder of that claim is not an actor, as he clearly would be
if Wetmore refused to pay over to him and he sought relief. On a bill to settle priorities the decree is a judgment
in favor of each incumbrancer.
Mr. Oarlisle, contra: On the 12th February, 1850, the day
when all the rights of the complainant accrued, whatever
they were, Hamilton himself had only a personal contract
upon which he might sue, if within the time limited thereby
he should become entitled to claim compensation of the
trustees of the bank. Of consequence, this contract -was all
that it was legally possible to assign; so that the assigneo
would have the right to sue in the name of Hamilton, for
his (the assignee's) use, on that contract, when, by its terms,
Lloyd v. Scott, I Peters, 225.

t 2 Brown's Chancery, 649.

618

SPAIN V. HAMILTON'S ADmINISTRATOR.

[Sup. CL

Argument for the appellees.

Hamilion himself might sue. The ubsequent paper, of
16th September, 1850, under which these appellees claim,
recapitulating the terms of the agreement of 1845, without
any variation from them, referred to it as a personal contract
and not as a lien specifically on the fund. In this fund, created in September, 1850, the complainant could have had. no
interest on the 12th of February previous, the date of the
assignment to him, for the fund did not then exist. Indeed
the paper does not purport to assign any interest in any specific fund, but only the claim, as general creditor, which he
night have against the trustees of the bank for services rendered. It is not possible to convert a personal contract into
the pledge of a particular fund.*
2. But if the complainant has a specific assignment of the
fund, and may sue upon it here, he is postponed to the appellees, Wetmore, Corcoran & Riggs, and Hill.
At the date of the complainant's assignment Hamilton's
only claim to the fund rested on the letter to him., of October
16, 1845. The existence of these bonds, and that they were
held by Wetmore, and that the interest of the bank was only
"contingent and resulting, dependent upon t he payment of the
amountfor which they are now held by 1r. WVetmore," was expressly notified to him in that paper, and his previous knowledge is there imputed to him. The complainant claims to
stand in his place, and before us, upon that paper. Therefore, it was plainly his duty to give notice to Wetmore. If
he had done so, we should have been safe from any fraud.
The obligation of the equitable assignee in cases like the
present is set forth in Die Leading Cases in Equity,t where
it is said that "in order that third parties may be bound, it
is necessary with regard to a chose in action to do all that
can be done to perfect the assignment;" and again, that "if
the assignee of a chose in action, or of a trust estate in personalty does not perfect his title by giving notice of the
2 Leading Oases in Equity, by Hare and Wallace, part 2d, p. 233, ed.
of 1852; note to low v. Dawson, &c.

t By Hare and Wallace, vol. 2, part 2d, pp. 212, 213, ed. of 1852; note
to low v. Dawson.

Dec. 1863.]

SpAN v. lAmITmox'S ADMINISTRATOR.

619

Argument for the appellees.

assignment to the debtor or trustees, a subsequent purchaser
or incumbrancer giving notice of his assignmment will thereby
acquire priority."
No such notice from Spain or from any one is pretended,
either before or after our assignments, except the notice of
this bill, filed in 1856, nearly six years after our rights accrued. Spain's laches every way were great. We need
not recapitulate the evidence, as the court, we are sure, will
perceive and enforce our view of the case, on the facts as
stated in the case. Judson v. (orcoran, in this court, is in
point.*
3. The question of usury as regards Corcoran and Riggs,
is a question of fact, of intent. If neither party intend it,
but act bond fide and innocently, the law will not infer a
corrupt agreement.t
The complainant, unable to deny the well-known rule,
that a third person complaining in equity of usury can only
have relief for the excess of the real debt, seeks to avoid it
by a supposed distinction in cases of several claimants upon
a fund, the question being as to priority of equities. But
there is no foundation for the distinction. It is believed
that in all eases in equity the rule is unyielding. Scott v. Aesbit is to the point.1 Even in an action of trover,§ Lord
Mansfield refused to allow the plaintiff to recover his goods,
which had been pledged on a usurious agreement, because
he had not offered to pay the real debt and legal interest.
It is settled, moreover, that, notwithstanding the statute
declares all usurious securities absolutely void, this is by way
of defence to a suit founded on such security. To this extent the rule applies to the holder of a negotiable promissory
note (the most favored in this respect), when he sues on the
infected instrument; because the defence is provided absolutely by the statute. The policy of the statute was to protect the necessitous borrower; but, by legal reasoning, it
• 17 Howard, 612.
-t Bank of the United States v. Waggener et al., 9 Peters, 378.
$ 2 Brown's Chancery, 649; see Mason v. Gardiner, 4 Id., 438.
Fitzroy v. Gwillian, 1 Term, 153.

620

SPAIn V. IAMILTON'S ADMINISTRATOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

has been extended to his legal representatives; yet only as
defence. If the assignee of the borrower sue in ejectment,
and the purchaser under the usurious mortgage is defendant
(at least not being particeps criminis), the instrument under
which the defendant claims is not void; for the fact of usury
is not used in such case as a defence, but as a weapon of
attack, which was not the intent of the statute, and would
be against conscience.* So that, even at law, the imperative terms of the statute only make the usurious securities
void, sub modo; the equitable rule being applied even by
courts of law, whenever, consistently with technical reasons,
it can be done.t
Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
He stated facts at length; and after quoting the letters of
the bank to Hamilton of 16th October, 1845, and to Wetmore of 16th September, 1850, and Wetmore's indorsement
on it,-which latter, of the 16th September, his honor observed, "is a substantial repetition of the conditions upon
the performance of which the bank would give to Hamilton
10 per centum, with a full acknowledgment that he had rendered such services as entitled him to have it,"-proceeded
as follows:
Viewing the case as the parties have chosen to make it by agreement, we must consider it differently from what we would
otherwise have done, and will consider, as the purpose of the
suit is declared to be to settle priorities between the parties
to it, what are the rights of the complainant in that particular, and how the priority which he claims has been affected
by his own remissness and negligence.
It must be remembered that he rests his claim upon a
paper executed by Hamilton of all his "right and claim for
any commission or compensation for services rendered or to
be rendered by him to any person and body corporate, in the
prosecution of any claim or claims for any and every person
and persons and body corporate, on the said government of
* Jackson v. Henry, 10 Job ison, 195. t Jackson v. Dominick, 14 Id., 135

Dec. 1863.]

SPAMN V. flAMILTON'S ADMINISTRATOR.

621

Opinion of the court.

Texas, subject to any previous assignment thereof, which
Hamilton might have made before."
Mr. Spain, the complainant, is in a court of equity asking
a priority of payment over other creditors, out of a fund
held in trust by Mr. Wetmore for the benefit of Hamilton,
who became assignee of Hamilton on his acceptance in the
discharge of his duties of the relation to them as the trustee
of the fund. No inquiry was made by the complainant, as
he had a right to make, when he accepted the paper from
Hamilton, as to who were the persons or body corporate
from whom he anticipated commissions or compensation for
the successful prosecution of their claims upon Texas. He
certainly had the right to make such an inquiry from Hamilton, and in the situation in which Hamilton and himself were
at the moment, could either have coerced at least such a
reply as would have enabled him to protect himself by notices of his interest in the matter, knowing as be then did
that Hamilton was an insolvent man, and being admonished
by the paper itself that the rights which Hamilton was professing to give him were but secondary to the right of other•
assigness of Hamilton, as the paper declares they were.
Instead of any such care and caution, he accepted the paper,
or assignment as it is called, not in any way guarding himself from the power which Hamilton might exercise to sell
and borrow money upon the same fund from innocent parties, without any possibility of the buyer or lender having
any knowledge of the claim which Mr. Spain now makes
upon the fund in controversy. Mr. Spain neither asked for
information to secure his own rights, or to protect the rights
of others from such a result. And it was not made until
some time after Mr. Wetmore had accepted Hamilton's draft
in favor of Corcoran & Riggs, that Mr. Spain thought of
giving a notice of any kind of his claim upon the fund. He
then says in his bill, that to make his assignment effectual,
and to fasten notice of it uron the. government of Texas,
that he had sent through the post-office at Galveston to the
treasurer of Texas a copy of Hamilton's assignment to him,
which appears to have been received. It was dated the 8th

622

SPAIN V. ]AMILTON'S ADMINISTATOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

June, 1851. If Mr. Spain had been vigilant in his inquiries
as to what had been done by Texas for the payment of itL4
debts, he would have learned by inquiries, while he was at
Galveston, that Wetmore, as the assignee of the bank's
Texas bonds, had, two years before the date of his noice,
filed those bonds, as the act of Texas directed it to be dne,
with the treasurer and comptroller of Texas. But if that
had not been done by ir. Wetmore, and the notice of the
complainant had come to his knowledge, it could not in any
way invalidate the loan of Corcoran & Riggs, or his acceptance of Hamilton's order in their favor, which had been
made prior to the date of the letter from the complainant,
transmitting to the treasurer of Texas a copy of the paper
under which he claimed to be the assignee of Hamilton.
The same may be said of the paper given by Mir. May, on
the 9th September, 1851, to Mr. Corwin, the Secretary of the
Treasury, which was intended to prevent the payment of the
fund to any other person than Mr. Spain. No one will doubt
that such a paper for that purpose was written and placed
'by him in the Treasury Department; but it cannot in any
regard affect the claim of Corcoran & Riggs upon the fund,
as their dealings with Hamilton, and Wetmore's acceptance
of Hamilton's order in their favor, took place twelve months
before, on the 21st and 24th September, 1850. The paper
left by Mr. May with the secretary cannot be presumed to
have been made known to Wetmore to affect his rights, as the
legal holder and trustee of Hamilton, to the fund, or those
of Robb & Co., or those of Hill, as it has not been presented
and proved in the manner that the law requires all papers
or documents to be, friom either of the departments of the
Government, before they can be received as testimony in
courts of justice. In fact the complainant, Mr. Spain,
neither made inquiries to protect himself or to secure others
from being imposed upon by Hamilton. He knew, as hig
bill shows, all the proceedings of this Government for the
payment of the Texas debt, and where to go for information,
and was advised of the notice given by the Secretary of the
Treasury to the holders )f Texas bonds as early as March,

Dec. 1863.]

SpAix v. HAmILTo,x's

AD.IISTRAToI.

623

Opinion of the court.

1851. Instead of acting promptly and with vigilance, he
delays all notice to Wetmore for more than six years; untiI
be brought his bill. The complainant says, in excuse for
not having given earlier notice to Wetmore, that be was
ignorant of the existence or terms of the papers connecting
Hamilton and Wetmore with the fund in controversy. The
answer to that is, that he should have made inquiries, and
should not have left himself ignorant, as he did, when he
took the paper from Hamilton upon which he asks for a
priority of payment. On the contrary, Wetmore and Corcoran & Riggs used every precaution to protect themselves
before the latter lent to Hamilton $25,000, and also to warn
others who might come afterwards as dealers in the fund
with Hamilton.
No creditor has a right to take a blind assignment from
his debtor upon the latter's anticipation of becoming interested in a particular fund to be realized thereafter, without
making such inquiries as the occasion may require, and then
to ask in equity for a priority in the payment of his debt
merely from the precedency in date of his assignment over
those who became subsequently assignees for part of the
same fund for actual value given to the cestui que trust of the
fund. It is our opinion that Wetmore, Corcoran & Riggs,
and Hill are meritorious creditors of Hamilton, and that
their claims upon the fund were acquired without notice or
the possibility of their having had it, when they became the
assignees of Hamilton, and that the complainant in this case
has no priority of payment out of the fufid in consequence
of remissness in not having given notice of his claim as the
assignee of Hamilton.*
This case has been examined by us very fully and with
every regard for the arguments of the able counsel representing the complainant. We think it to be clearly withiL
the principles decided by this court in Judson v. Gorcoran.t
* Foster v. Blackstone, 1 MAylne & Keen, 297; Tirson v. Ramsbotham,
2 Keen, 25; Meaux v. Bell, 1 Hare, 73; Loomis v. Loomis, 26 Vermont,
198; Ward v. Morrison, 25 Ibid., 593.
f 17 1ioward, 012.

624

SPA1N V. HAMILTON'S ADMINISTRATOI.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

It is clearly within the cases which have been so fully and
ably reported, of Dearee v. HUall, and Leverdge v. Cooper, in
3 Russell.* The interests of Wetmore, Corcoran & Riggs,
and Hill in the fund, are valid and operative as assignments.
To constitute an assignment of a debt or other chose in
action, in equity, no particular form is necessary. A draft
drawn by A. or B. in favor of C. for a valuable consideration, amounts to a valid assignment to C. of so much of the
funds of A. in the hands of B. Any order, writing, or act
which makes an appropriation of a fund, amounts to an
equitable assignment of the fund. The reason is, that the
fund being a matter not assignable at law, nor capable of
manual possession, an -appropriation of it is all that the
nature of the case admits of, and therefore it is held good
in a court of equity. As the assignee is generally entitled
to all the remedies of the assignor, so he is subject to all the
equities between the assignor and his debtor. But in order
to perfect his title against the debtor it is indispensable that
the assignee should immediately give notice of the assignment to the debtor, for otherwise a priority of right may
be obtained by a subsequent assignee, or the debt may be
discharged by a payment to the assignee before such notice.t
No cases can be cited, or were in conflict with those upon
which we rely for the judgment which we are about to give
in this case.
In respect to the question of usury alleged by the complainant against Corcoran & Riggs, to affect their right to
recover their loan to Hamilton, we do not deem it necessary
to follow the arguments of counsel. The complainant, as
a suitor in equity, could only have relief for the excess
over the real debt, as he admits it to have been a loan by
Corcoran & Riggs to Hamilton of $25,000, in the way and
at the date mentioned in their answer to his bill.1 The
application of the rule in this case cannot be denied, because
the complainant alleges his bill to be for claims upon a fund
* Pages 1-64.

2 Story's Equity Jurisprudence, 376, 1047, and the cases -ited.
S
StaLley
v. Gadsby et al., 10 Peters, 521.

Dec. 1863.]

SPAix v.

H

imLToN's ADMINISTRATOR.

625

Opinion of the court.

by several parties contesting their equities to a priority of
payment.
The charge of usury against Corcoran & Riggs depends
altogether upon a paper marked "1private and confidential,"
bearing date the 21st of September, 1850, the day that
Hamilton drew his order upon Wetmore in favor of that
firm. The paper is admitted to be in the handwriting of
Hamilton, and is signed by himself and by Mr. Corcoran for
his firm. Though drawn and signed on the day that the
loan was made, the reading of it shows that it had no connection with the arrangement between Hamilton and Corcoran & Riggs for lending the money. The paper is begun
by a recital of the loan at an interest of six per cent., and it
proceeds to say, *without any mention of the subject, that
he, Hamilton, in case of his not procuring for Corcoran &
'Riggs the agency at Washington for the settlement of the
Texas debt, will allow a commission on the loan of two
thousand dollars, to be added to the interest of six per cent.
Not that he would pay, but that he would allow, and that
the balance of the $30,000 was to be credited to his account
on a final settlement of the same, concluding the paper with
a provision characteristic of Hamilton, as. this record shows,
that the "contract was not to be in prejudice of a liberal
remuneration which Corcoran & Riggs have agreed to allow
him in the event of his procuring for them the agency for
the settlement of the Texas debt." It must be observed
that Hamilton in this paper promises nothing absolutely,
though he secures or stipulates for a payment to himself by
Corcoran & Riggs of a liberal remuneration in the event of
his getting for them the agency. It cannot fail to be remarked, in reading the paper, that Hamilton is left by it
either to get the agency for Corcoran & Riggs or not to do
so, as it may be his interest to do,. and that he is not obliged
by words of any force amounting to a contract to pay the
two thousand dollars which he says shall be added to the
interest of six per cent. upon the loan. It would be difficult,
indeed, to find anything like a paper of this kind in any
attempt by parties to a usurious loan. From the whole (f
VOL. 1.

40

626

SPAIN V. HAMILTON'S ADMINISTRATOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

it, it is certain that no part of it contains a promise to pay anything absolutely in addition to the loan, and the six per cent.
interest for which it. stipulates. The payment of anytling
additional depends also upon a contingency, and not upon
any happening of a certain event, which of itself would be
deemed insufficient to make a loan usurious. No part of the
paper, taken in connection with all the circumstances of the
case, could be used as a predicate from which it could be
affirmed that the commission to be allowed by Hamilton
was an intentional device between himself and Mr. Corcoran
to make the loan to the former usurious. The paper is
uncertain and so curious that if any conjecture can be allowed
as to the temper and character of Hamilton, as they are
shown by the record, it may be supposed *to have been intended by him to allure Mr. Corcoran into the belief that
Hamilton's influences in Texas were so prominent that he
was willing on his part to promise to forfeit the sum of $2000,
if Corcoran & :Riggs would make him other advances to aid
him in procuring for them the agency. Whatever may have
been the motives of Hamilton for drawing such a paper, we
cannot infer from the paper itself and all the circumstances
attending it, that it was designed by those who signed it as
a device to make the contract for a loan usurious. Mr. Gorcoran, however, by having incautiously signed it, has subjected himself, in the pleadings and argument of the cause,
without there having been any foundation for such a charge,
to a professional imputation of having intended to make a
usurious loan.
We have discussed this case in all the relations which its
circumstances, proofs and admissions place the parties with
each other. Mr. Spain, as the representative of Mrs. McRae,
claims a priority of payment out of the fund on the ground
that it had been assigned to him for that purpose. If the
paper, as executed by Hamilton and received by Mr. Spain,
could by the force of its provisions have the efficacy of an
assignment, there would be some coloring for the claim of a
priority of payment. But it has not, for it is expressly declared that it was made subject to other assignments w'hich

Dec. 1863.]

G-RAY v). BRIGISTARDELLO.

Statement of the case.

had been previously made. To whom or for what amounts
is not said. Hamilton then executed the paper subject to
them, and Mr. Spain so received it, without knowing that he
could have any interest in the fund. Had they been otherwise, Mr. Spain's claim of priority would have been lost by
his omission to make those inquiries suited to the occasion, and he leaving it in the power of Hamilton to make
assignments to others of parts of the same fund. There is
no doubt that he did so to Corcoran & Riggs, to Robb & Co.,
and to Hill, without either of them having had notice of any
dealing between Hamilton and Spain. They have the right
to a priority of payment out of the fund, and we affirm the
decree of the Circuit Court with costs.
CASE REMANDED..
Messrs. Justices MILLER and SWAYNE dissented.

GRAY

v. BRIGwARDELLO.

BRIGNARDELLO V. GRAY.
1. The ancient doctrine that all rights acquired under a judicial sale made
while a decree is in force and unreversed will be protected, is a doctrine
of extensive application. It prevails in California as- elsewhere; and
neither there nor elsewhere is it open to a distinction between a reversal
on appeal, where the suit in the higher court may be said to be a continuation of the original suit, anda reversal on a bill of review, where,
in some senses, it may be contended to be a different one. But purchasers at such sale are protected by this doctrine only when the power
to make the sale is clearly given. It does not apply to a sale made
under an interlocutory decree only; or under a conditional order, the
condition not yet having been fulfilled.
2. A decree nun pro tunc is always admissible where a decree was ordered
or intended to be entered, and was omitted to be entered only by the
inadvertence of the court; but'a decree which was not actually meant
to be made in a final form, cannot be entered in that shape nunc pro
&c in order to give validity to an act done by a judicial offcer under a
supposition that the decree was final instead of interlocutory.

IN July, 1853, Franklin C. Gray, of California, died in the
State of New York, leaving there a widow, Matilda, and an
infant daughter, Franklina, and property held in his name,

