JONES t

GREEN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

grant. In this c.ase the approval is not denied, but the question suspended.
Although some of the grants purporting to be made by
Pio Pico, in the spring of 1846, shortly before his expulsion,
have been shown to have been executed after that time, there
is no evidence in this case to justify the court in deciding
that this grant is not authentic.
DECREE AFFIRMED

JONES

i).

GREEN ET AL.

A bill in equity will not lie on behalf of judgment creditors to subject real
property of their debtor, held by a third party upon a secret trust for
him, to the satisfaction of their judgment, until a fruitless attempt has

been made for its collection by execution at law.
APPEAL from the Supreme Court of the Territory of Nebraska, the case being thus:
In February, 1859, C. and J. Green and C. and L Gill filed a
bill in Chancery in the District Court of the Territory just
mentioned, against one Jones and a certain Brown. It set
forth that in March, 1858, the said Greens had obtained judgment in the District Court of the First Judicial District of
Nebraska, against Brown, for $1155, and that in October of
the same year, the other two complainants, G. and C. Gill,
had obtained judgment against him in the same court for $450.
It charged, that on the 15th of July, 1857, Brown was engaged in mercantile pursuits in the city of Omaha; that he
was on that day utterly insolvent, and being about to suspend business and the payment of his debts, purchased certain real estate in the city just named; and in order to place
it beyond the reach of his creditors, procured a conveyance
to be made to the othef defendant, Jones, who it was alleged
now held the property upon a secret trust for him. The bill
set forth also that executions had been issued and returxed
unsatisfied, and prayed that the premises might be sold and
the proceeds applied to the payment of the judgments. The

Dec. 1863.]

JO-NES

v. GREEN.

Opinion of the court.

answer denied that executions had been issued and returned unsatisfied; and there was no sufficient proof that they had been.
The District Court rendered a decree in favor of the complainants, and the Supreme Court of the Territory affirmed
it. On the argument of the appeal in this court,-which
was by Aessrs. Carlisleand Bediek for the appellant,and by Mr.
Woolworth contra,-several objections were made to the decree; but the only one considered by the court was, whether
the bill would lie before the judgment creditors had attempted to collect their judgmeuts by execution at law.
Mr. Justice FIELD delivered the opinion of the court:
In March, f858, two of the complainants recovered judgment against Brown, in one of the District Courts of the
Territory of Nebraska, for upwards of eleven hundred dollars. In October following,.the other complainants also recovered judgment, in the same court, against Brown, for
upwards of four hundred dollars. In February, 1859, the
judgment creditors instituted the present suit, the object of
which is to subject certain real property situated in the city
of Omaha to the satisfaction of their respective judgments.
The bill charges that on the 15th of July, 1857, Brown
was engaged in mercantile pursuits in that city; that he was
on that day insolvent, and being about to suspend business
and the payment of his debts, purchased the real property
in question, and in order to place it beyond the reach of his
creditors, procured a conveyance to be made to the defendant Jones, who now holds the property upon a secret trust
for him. The bill prays that the premises may be sold and
the proceeds applied to the payment of the judgments. The
District Court rendered a decree in favor of the complainants;
the Supreme Court of the Territory affirmed the decree, and
the defendant Jones has appealed to this court.
Several objections to the decree were urged upon.the court
on the argument, which we do not deem it necessary to consider. The objection that the complainants have not shown
any attempt to enforce their remedy at law is fatal to the
relief prayed. A court of equity exercises its jurisdiction

JONES V. GREEN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

in favor of a judgment creditor only when the remedy afforded him at law is ineffectual to reach the property of the
debtor, or the enforcement of the legal remedy is obstructed
by some incumbrance upon the debtor's property, or some
fraudulent transfer of it.
In the first case the court, when its aid is invoked, looks
only to the execution, and the return of the officer to whom
the execution was directed. The execution shows that the
remedy afforded at law has been pursued, and of course, is
the highest evidence of the fact. The return shows whether
the remedy has proved effectual or not, and from the embarrassments which would attend any other rule, the return
is held conclusive. The court will not entertain inquiries
as to the diligence of the officer in endeavoring to find
property upon which to levy. If the return be false, the law
furnishes to the injured party ample remedy.
In the second case the equitable relief sought rests upon
the fact that the execution has issued and a specific lien has
been acquired upon the property of the debtor by its levy,
but that the obstruction interposed prevents a sale of the
property at a fair valuation. It is to remove the obstruction,
and thus enable the creditor to obtain a full price for the property, that the suit is brought.*
In this case the bill alleges that executions were issued
upon the judgments of the complainants, and were returned
unsatisfied, but the allegation was not admitted, and no proof
on the subject was produced at the hearing. The case, therefore, stands as a suit in equity commenced for the satisfaction of judgments before any attempt had been made for
their collection at law by the issue of execution Thereon.
That. the suit cannot be maintained under these circumstances
is clear both upon principle and authority.
The decree appealed from must therefore be reversed, and
the coart below directed to enter a decree for the defendant,
dismissing the suit.
RE',NIANDDD WITH DIRECTIONS ACCORDINGLY.
Beck v. Burdctt. I Paige, 307; MIcElwain v. Willis, 9 Wendell, 659;
Crippen v. Hodson, 3 Kernan, 164.

