BLOOMER v. MILLINGER.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

for less than the sum to which he appears entitled by the
allegations in the body of the declaration.
Taking in the present case the certificate of the judge
below as correct, the amount in controversy-that is, the
debt alleged in the original declaration-did not exceed one
thousand dollars; the jurisdiction is not therefore acquired
by this court from the amendment in the amount of the
damages claimed. The writ of error is
DISMISSED.

BLOOMER V. MILLINGER.
1. A grant of a right by a patentee to make and use, and vend to others to be
used, a patented machine, within a term for which it has been granted,
will give the purchaser of machines from such grantee the right to use
the machine patentedas long as the machine itself lasts; nor will this
right to use a machine cease because an extension of the patent, not provided for when the patentee made his grant, has since been allowed,
and the machine sold has lasted and is used by the purchaser within the
term of time covered by this extension; the rule being distinguishable
from that applied to the assignee of the right to make and vend the thing
patented, who holds a portion of the franchise which the patent confers,
and whose right of course terminates with the term of the patent, unless
there is a stipulation to the contrary.
2. Bloomer v. McQuewan (14 Howard, 539), and Chaffee v. The Boston Belting
Cb. (22 Id., 217), approved.
8. How far parol proof may be introduced to show verbal agreements of the
parties at the time when deeds were executed, and so to prove mistake
or fraud in not executing what it was understood should be executed.
The question raised on argument, but not decided by the court.
BLOOMER, the appellant here, filed a bill in equity in the
Circuit Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania. He
set forth in it that he was owner of the exclusive right to
make and use, and vend to others to be used, within the
county of Alleghany, in Pennsylvania, the patented planing
machine of Woodworth; that subsequently to the 27th December, 1849, and about the 1st January, 1850, the respondent,
Millinger, had put in operation in that county, three of these
machines, and was continuing to use them without any law.

Dee. 1863.]

B LOOMER V. MILLITGER.

Statement of the case.

ful authority. The prayer was for an account, and for an
injunction against the use of these three machines.
The case, as appearing by the bill and answer, was thus:
On the 27th December, 1828, letters patent were granted
to Woodworth for an improved planing machine for fourteen
years, that is to say, up to 27th December, 1842.
On the 16th November, 1842 (Woodworth himself being
dead, but his estate being represented by an administrator),
an extension of the patent was granted by the Commissioner
or Board of Commissioners of Patents, for the term of seven
years from the expiration of the original patent; that is to
say, from the 27th December, 1842, to the 27th of December, 1849.
On the 2d June, 1843, the administrator of Woodworth,
by deed (called, in the argument, Exhibit A), reciting "the
extension of said letters patent for the term of sevenyears from
and after the expiration of said patent," sold and conveyed
to one William Lippincott, his heirs and assigns, the right to
construct and use, and vend to others to construct and use,
"during the said extension," the patented machine, within
the county of Alleghany, in the State of Pennsylvania; covenanting that such right should be exclusive throughout the
limits specified, during the "term aforesaid."
On the 26th February, 1845, Congress, by act, granted an
extension of the patent for the term of seven years from the
expiration of the extension granted by the commissioner; and on
the 14th of March following, the administrator sold and conveyed his interest in the "letters patent and the franchises
thereby granted and secured," for "the said term of seven
years created and extended by Congress," to one Wilson; a second
deed-not specially important in the case, but to the same
effect exactly, that is to say; for the term of seven years
created and extended by the said act of Congress-beingmade
July 9, 1845, and after the patent had been surrendered for
a defective specification.
Wilson was thus invested with the interest under the second
or Congressional extension, but with nothing more.
In this state of things, William Lipineott, still holding his
right under the deed of 2d June, 1843 (called Exhibit A), for

BLOOMIER V. MILLINGER.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

Alleghany County, under the extension granted by the commissioner, conveyed it, on the 10th April, 1846, to James Lippincott and one Millinger, the present defendant; and by a
second instrument (called Exhibit B), dated three days afterwards (13th April, 1846), the administrator, reciting that in
consequence of the surrender and renewal of the patent,
doubts had arisen as to rights given by instruments executed
prior to the reissue, licensed and empowered this same Lippincott and Millinger "to construct and use exclusively the
patented machine in the county of Alleghany .... and also
within said territory to license and empower any other person or persons to construct and use machines for the term of
time for which the patent was extended by the Board of Gommissioners herembefore referred to; being for the term of seven years
and no longer frorm and after the expiration of the original term of
fourteen years." The deed declared that the administrator
intended thereby "to confirm .... all right, title, and interest to construct and use, and the right to license others to
construct and use said machines," which had been granted
by the indenture of 2d June, 1843 (Exhibit A), and concludes
thus: "o
other, or greater, or other, or further grant or
conveyance is hereby made, &c., than was granted by the
indenture aforesaid, and upon the same terms and conditions."
Lippincott and Millinger were thus vested with the right
for Alleghany County under the commissioner's extension,
in such way as given by the deeds already mentioned.
On the 24th June, 1847, the administrator granted to
Bloomer (the complainant) his "full consent, permission, and
license to construct and use, and vend to others to construct
and use," the patented invention "during the two extensions,"
within that part of Pennsylvania, west of the Alleghany
Mountains, "excepting Alleghany County, for the first extension;" this "first extension" being that which had been previously granted to Lippincott and Millinger, the respondent
in this suit. And on the 2d September, 1847, this same Lippincott and Millinger, by indorsement upon the admin"
tor's deed of 13th April, 1846, conveying it to them, conv

Dec. 1863.]

BLOOMER V. MILLIXGEE.
Statement of the case.

to him, Bloomer aforesaid, whatever rights in the patent
they held; Bloomer, however, stipulating that he would in
no way interfere with certain machines mentioned in the
transfer as belonging, &c., one to A., and one to B., &c., "nor
interfere in any manner with the use of the three machines
now erected, and in operation and use by the said 2fillinger;
but the right, title, and use of the machines of the persons
hereinbefore named, shall remain and be in them or their
assigns for and during the time limited by the written instruments."
In addition to this deed indorsed-from Lippincott and
Millinger to Bloomer, of 2d September, 1847-these same
parties, Lippincott and Millinger, executed on the 10th January, 1848, still another deed to Bloomer, by which they
assigned to him "all their right, title, and interest in and to
the said planing patents .... within said county of Alleghany, as fully as the same is vested in us by force of the
several hereinbefore recited conveyances,* and giving to the
said Bloomer and his assigns full power and authority to construct and use, and vend to others to construct and use, said
patent as aforesaid, within said county.

...

, for and during

the full end and term of time unexpired and yet to come of
said extension of said patent, to wit, until the 27th day of December, 1849."
And on the same day, Bloomer, the complainant, executed
a deed, giving to Millinger, the respondent, "his full consent,
and permission, and license to construct and use, and vend
to others to construct and use, durinq the first extension herein
set forth, to wit, from the 27th day of December, 1842, until the
27th day of -December,1849, the right to use the said renewed
patent, and to vend to others to use three planing machines
upon the principle, plan, and description of the said renewed
patent and amended specifications, within the county of
Alleghany." How far Millinger had accepted this deed was not
so plain.
* These were the deeds of June 2, 1843 (Exhibit A), that of 101h April,

1846, and that of 13th April, 1846 (Exhibit B).

BLO631ER V. MILLINGER.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

In addition to the defence, as already indicaed, from the
pleadings, M illinger, the respondent, by his answer, averred
and offered to prove that when the reassignment of 10th
January, 1848, from Lippincott and himself to Bloomer, was
executed, Bloomer agreed that he would execute to Millinger
"a deed of assignment of the right to the said extension, so
far as regarded the three machines," and "the said deed of
assignment from the said Bloomer"-MIillinger's answer
went on to say-" was to be executed by the two parties, and
was to be so worded as that respondent should have all the
rights and privileges, and was to stand precisely in the position as to the rights, enjoyments, and privileges, as respected
the patent right to said three machines, as if the assignment
from respondent and Lippincott had never been made, and
so as to place the respondent in the same situation as he
would have stood under the assignment of the 2d of June,
1843, or by any other agreement between the parties, and
to all the benefit of any renewals to which respondent would
have been entitled under the assignment of said extension
by the Commissioner of Patents, on the 2d of June, 1843, or
any other agreement between the parties;" that the plaintiff; in fulfilment of the verbal agreement, did execute a deed,
left it at the place of business of the respondent, and that he
refused to accept or sign the same, because it did not carry
out the alleged agreement.
Some parol evidence was taken on behalf of the respondent, to substantiate these allegations. But the complainant's
general right, and the use of the three machines by the respondent, Millinger, after the expiration of the term of extension
granted by the commissioner, was not denied.
The court below dismissed the bill; and on appeal here,
two principal questions-in substance these-were made:
1. Whether, under the deeds of June 23d, 1843 (Exhibit
A), conveying to the assignor of Millinger, in such strict
terms, a right to the extension of the patent for but seren
years, and the deeds of 10th and 13th April, 1846 (Exhibit
B), by which this right was conveyed, in such like terms, to
Milinger-taken in connection with Bloomer's stipulation

Dec. 1863.]

8BLOOMER

V. MrILLNGER.

Argument for the appellant.

of 18th April, 1846, and his deed of 10th January, 1848, that
Millinger should use his three machines during the said term
for which the patent had been extended by the commissioner
-3illinger could use his machines after the expiration of
that term, and during the new term for which an extension
had been granted by Congress.
2. If he could not ap so under the deeds as set forth in the
pleadings, he could introduce parol evidence to show what
he alleged in his answer and offered to prove, as to the license intended to have been executed by Bloomer on the
10th January, 1848.
Mlessrs. Seward, .Norton, and Blatchford5 for the appellant,
Bloomer:
1. The intent with which the agreement was made is but
a convertible term for its legal operation, and that legal operation is to be affixed by the law to the language used by
the parties, irrespective of the intent with which they used
such language. The inquiry never arises upon the evidence
"what did the parties intend to do ?"-if the written agreement which they made is susceptible of legal interpretation.
The conclusion is, that they intended just what the law interpreting their agreement says that they have done. If this
rule be so, it excludes from the consideration of the court
the parol evidence introduced by the respondent, and leaves
for the adjudication of the court, the single question of law,
viz.: "Has the respondent, under these instruments, either
by their proper interpretation or by operation of general law,
the right to continue to use, during the extension of the patent
by Congress, the three machines which he constructed and
was lawfully in use of during the extension by the commissioners?"
2. The fact that the subject of the contract is a right in or
an interest under a patent, does not take the case out of the
law applicable to the law of contracts generally. The owner
of a patent may make any agreement with regard to its enjoyment that he may make in regard to any other species of
property. It is competent, therefore, for the owner of a pa-

BLooIER V. MILLINGER.

[Su p. Ct

Argument for the appellant.

tent right to carve out of his entire monopoly such fractional
interest therein, either as to absolute right, or as to territorial extent, or as to duration of right, as he may see fit.
Applying this principle, it appears that the respondent
never acquired, by voluntary grant from any of the owners
of either the original or extended patent, any right to continue to use the thing patented during the extension of the
patent by Congress. If there be language which can define
the intent of the grantor to be, that he parts with a right
under his patent for a specified number of years only, that
language will be found in both of the instruments under
which the respondent was rightfully in use of his three machines during the first extension of the patent. In Exhibit
A, the first instrument (that of 2d June, 1843), by the administrator to William Lippincott, the respondent's assignor,
the grant was of a "right and license to construct, use, and
vend to others to construct and use, during the said extension
of the aforesaidpatent," that extension being the one granted
by the commissioners, and which expired on the 27th of December, 1849.
In the confirmatory instrument to the respondent, of the
13th of April, 1846 (known as Exhibit B), which was intended to convey the right under the amended specification
attached to the reissued patent, the language is, "doth license and empower. . . for the term of time for which the patent was extended by the Board of Commissioners hereinbefore referred to, being for the term of seven years, and no longer,from
the expiration qf the original term offourteen years."
Probably Bloonie v. li1e Quewan,* decided by this court,
will be relied on to support an opposite view. But we submit-first, that that case is inapplicable, and second, that it is
not, under the circumstances of its decision, a binding authority.
i. The act of Congress places the case in the position in
which it would have been had the patent been originally
granted for twenty-eight years. If it had been so granted,
* 14 Howard, 550.

Dec. 1863.]

BLOOMER V. MILLINGER.

Argument for the appellant.

what right would the respondent have acquired by virtue of
Exhibits A and B, executed respectively in 1843 and 1846 ?
Clearly, the beL eficial enjoyment of the patent for the period
therein specified, expiring on the 27th of December, 1849,
and nothing other or beyond. If he acquired any other or
further right, he must have acquired it by virtue of some
general law, and not by virtue of the contract, or of the act
extending the patent. The respondent did not know, in 1843,
when the first license was granted, that the patent would be
extended by act of Congress, but he knew that it might be.
He did know, in 1846, when the second license was executed,
that the patent had been extended; and he accepted an in.
strument on that date, which expressed, by the use of proper language, the intention of the grantor to terminate the
right granted, on the 27th day of December, 1849.
The respondent never occupied, during the first term of
the patent, the position of the defendant in Bloomer v. McQuean,-that is, he was not an "assignee," or*"grantee,"
during the original term of the patent, of the right to use the
thing patented.
By the Patent Act of 1836 (ยง 18), it is provided, that the
benefit of the renewal by the commissioner shall extend "to
assignees and grantees of the right to use the thing patented,
to the extent of their respective interests therein." In Wilson v. Bousseau,* it was the opinion of a majority of this court
that, without this provision, "all rights of assignees or grantees, whether in a share of the patent, or to a specific portion of the territory held under it, terminate at the end of
the fourteen years, and become reinvested in the patentee by
the new grant." And, in construing this very act of 1845,
Nelson, J., said in one case :t "If the extension for the
second term had been absolute, that is, if there had been no
reservation in the general act of 1836 in favor of assignees,
as there is not in the special act of 1845, the court would not
have entertained a doubt that the exclusive right to the invention during the second term would have been vested in
* 4 Howard, 646.

tGibson v. Gifford, I Blatchford, 529.

BLOOMER V. MILLINGER.

[Sul). Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the administrator." So, also, in another case,* where the
assignments were similar to Exhibits A and B, he held that
the defendant had no right to continue to use the machines
under the extension by act of Congress. This view has been
confirmed in other circuits.t
ii.But it is submitted that Bloomer v. XcQuewan should
be re-examined. The opinion of the court in that case was
pronounced by the present chief justice, and was concurred
in by Justices Catron, Daniel, and Grier. Justices Nelson
and McLean dissented. Justices Wayne and Curtis did not
sit. So that the decision was really that of less than half of
the court, there having been one vacancy by the death of
Justice McKinley. Justice McLean, at the close of his dissenting opinion, says: "Sustained by the authority of seven
justices of this court, and by an argument of the Supreme
Coti above cited, which I think is unanswerable, I shall
deem it to be my duty to bring the same question now decided, whev it arises in my circuit, for the consideration and
decision of a full bench." It cannot be presumptuous to ask
the court to give to the question a new investigation, in
order that it may be submitted "for the consideration and
decision of a full bench."
The counsel then examined the decision on principle and
authority.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court:
Counsel of the complainant concede that the machines
* Gibson v. Cook, 2 Blatchford, 144.
t In Bloomer v. Stolley, 5 McLcan, 158, McLean, J., held that the defendant in that case acquired no right, under the act of Congress extending
Woodworth's patent, to continue to use the machine which he had rightfully used during the second term of the patent. In Mason v. Talman (decided in Rhode Island, July, 1850), Woodbury and Pitman, JJ., followed
the decision of Nelson and McLean, JJ., upon this point. The point was
similarly decided by McKinley and McCaleb, JJ., in Bloomer v. Vaught
(in Louisiana, February, 18.5U), by Ware, J., in Woodworth v. Barber (in
Maine, April, 1850), and by Sprague, J., in Woodworth v. Curtis (in Massachusetts, January, 1850).

Dec. 1863.]

B LOOMER V). MILLINGER.

Opinion of the court.

were constructed and put in operation by the consent and
license of the assignees of the patentees, and that the respondent had the full right to continue to use and operate
the same throughout the entire period of the extension
granted by the Commissioner of Patents. But they deny
that he had any right to continue to use or operate them
under the second extension, which was granted by the act
of Congress. All of those machines were constructed and
put in operation before the act of Congress was passed, and
of course under an authority founded upon the patent as it
existed at the time the authority was conferred. Regarding
the transaction in that point of view, the argument is, that
the respondent could not lawfully continue to use and operate the machines under the extension granted by Congress,
inasmuch as such a use of the invention was not in the contemplation of the parties when the respondent was authorized to construct them and put them in operation.
Two principal defences were set up by the respondent in
the court below.
First, he insisted that inasmuch as he constructed the machines and put them in operation under the authority of the
patentee or his assigns, with the right to continue to use
and operate them during the entire term of the patent as it
was then granted, he cannot now be deprived of the right
to use the property which he was thus induced to purchase,
and which he in that manner lawfully acquired.
Secondly, he insisted that the complainant, at the time the
respondent transferred to him the right he acquired- under
the assignment to him of the 10th of April, 1846, agreed
that he, the complainant, would execute to him, the respondent, a deed of assignment of the right to the extension in
question, so far as respects the three machines now in controversy; and he insisted that parol proofs were admissible
and sufficient to establish the fact of such an agreement. On
the other hand, the complainant denies that any such agreement was ever made, and he also insists that parol proofs
are not admissible to establish such a theory.
Confessedly, the latter question is one of difficulty, under

BLOOM1ER V. MILLINGER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the circumstances, but it is wholly unnecessary to decide it
in this case, as the respondent was and is clearly entitled to
judgment upon the other ground. He constructed his machines, or caused them to be constructed, under the authority of the patentee or his assigns, and consequently must be
regarded in the same light as a grantee or assignee under
those who had the legal control of the patent. Builders of
machines under such circumstances, have the same rights as
grantees or assignees.
When the respondent had purchased the right to construct
the machines and operate them during the lifetime of the
patent as then existing, and had actually constructed the
machines under such authority, and put them in operation,
he had then acquired full dominion over the property of the
machines, and an absolute and unrestricted right to use and
operate them until they were worn out.
Patentees acquire the exclusive right to make and use,
and vend to others to be used, their patented inventions for
the period of time specified in the patent, but when they
have made and vended to others to be used one or more of
the things patented, to that extent they have parted with
their exclusive right. They are entitled to but one royalty
for a patented machine, and consequently when a patentee
has himself constructed the machine and sold it, or authorized another to construct and sell it, or to construct and
use and operate it, and the consideration has been paid to
him for the right, he has then to that extent parted with his
monopoly, and ceased to have any interest whatever in the
machine so sold or so authorized to be constructed and operated. Where such circumstances appear, the owner of the
machine, whether he built it or purchased it, if he has also
acquired the right to use and operate it during the lifetime
of the patent, may continue to use it until it is worn out, in
spite of any and every extension subsequently obtained by
the patentee or his assigns.
Provision is made by the eighteenth section of the act of
the 4th of July, 1836, for the extension of patents beyond the
time of their limitation. By the latter clause of that section

Dec. 1863.]

BLOOMER V. MILLINGER.
Opinion of the court.

the benefit of such renewal is expressly extended to assignees
and grantees, of the right to use the thing patented, to the
extent of their respective interests therein. 5 Stat. at Large,
125. Under that provision it has repeatedly been held by
this court that a party who had purchased and was using a
patented machine, during the original term for which the
patent was granted, had a right to continue to use the same
during the extension. Wison v. Rousseau, 4 How., 646.
Founded as that rule is upon the distinction between the
grant of the right to make and vend the machine, and the'
grant of the right to use it, the justice of the case will always
be obvious, if that distinction is kept in view and the rule
itself is properly applied.
Purchasers of the exclusive privilege of making or vending the patented machine in a specified place, hold a portion
of the franchise which the patent confers, and of course the
interest which they acquire terminates at the time limited
for its continuance by the law which created it, unless it is
expressly stipulated to the contrary. But the purchaser of
the implement or machine, for the purpose of using it in the
ordinary pursuits of life, stands on different ground. Such
certainly were the views of this court in the case of Bloomor
v. McQuewan, 14 How., 549, where the whole subject was
very fully considered. Attention is drawn to the fact that
there was considerable diversity of opinion among the judges
in disposing of that case, but the circumstance is entitled to
no weight in this case, because the court has since unanimously affirmed the same rule. Chaffee v. The Boston Belting -o., 22 How., 223. In the case last mentioned the court
say, that when the patented'machine rightfully passes from
the patentee to the purchaser, or from any other person by
him authorized to convey it, the machine is no longer within
the limits of the monopoly. By a valid sale and purchase
the patented machine becomes the private individual property of the purchaser, and is no longer specially protected
by the laws of the United States, but by the laws of the State
in which it is situated. Hence it is obvious, say the court,
that if a person legally acquires a title to that which iq the

UNITED STATES

v.

AUGUISOLA.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

subject of letters patent, he may continue to use it until it is
worn out, or he may repair it or improve upon it as he
pleases, in the same manner as if dealing with property of
any other kind. Webbs. Pat. Cases, 413, note p.
Considering that the question has been several times decided by this court, we do not think it necessary to pursue
the ipvestigation. The decree of the Circuit Court is therefore
AFFIRMED WITH COSTS.

UNITED STATES V. AUGUISOLA.
Where no suspicion, from the absence of the usual preliminary documentary
evidence in the archives of the former government, arises as to the
genuineness of a Mexican grant produced, the general rule is, that
objections to the sufficiency of proof of its execution must be taken in
the court below. They cannot be taken in this court for the first time.
The tribunals of the United States, in passing upon the rights of the inhabitants of California to the property they claim under grants from the
Spanish and Mexican governments, must be governed by the stipulations of the treaty, the law of nations, the laws, usages, and customs of
the former government, the principles of equity, and the decisions of
the Supreme Court, so far as they are applicable. They are not required
to exact a strict compliance with every legal formality.
The United States v. Johnson (ante, p. 326) approved.

THIS was an appeal by the .UnitedStates from a decree of
the District Court for the Southern District of California,
confirming to one Auguisola a tract of land in California.
After the cession of California to the United States, Auguisola, who deraigned title fiom two persons (Lopez and
Arrellanes) exhibiting a grant that purported to be from the
Mexican governor, Micheltorena, laid his claim before the
board of commissioners, which the act of Congress of March
3, 1851, appointed to examine and decide on all claims to
lands in California purporting to be derived from Mexican
grants. He here produced from the archives of the Surveyor-General of California a petition from the grantees;
the petition being accompanied by a map of the land desired;

