SEYBERT V. CITY OF PITTSBURG.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

be inferred that the court had refused to allow anything for
demurrage. But on reference to the record, it appears that
this sum was allowed by the judge, because he thought that
"the result would be about just between the parties on the
whole case." The sum reported by the commissioner has
not the effect of a verdict. The court may not concur in his
conclusions upon the facts reported, and may modify or
wholly reject it The court did not decide that demurrage
was not a proper item to be allowed in the computation of
damages, but that the amount of his decree was a just allowance for all damages sustained by libellamt. On reviewing
the evidence, we are satisfied that the sum allowed in the
decree was "just between the parties." The report of the
commissioner, allowing the whole bill for repairs, was not
just, because the repairs necessarily made were chargeable
not wholly to the collision, but to the age and previous condition of the boat. The charge for demurrage allowed by
him was not justified by the evidence, although there was
testimony to support it, such as can always be obtained
when friendly experts are called to give opinions. Besides,
the libellant withheld the best evidence of the profits made
by his boat, which would be found in his own books, showing his receipts and expenditures before the collision.
We believe the decree gave the libellant ample reparatiou
for all damages, as well for demurrage as repairs.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

SEYBERT V. CITY OF PITTSBURG.
An authority given by act of legislature to a city corporation to subscribe
for stock in a railway company, "as fully as any individual," authorizes
also the issue by the city of its negotiable bonds in payment of the stock.
The opinion of the Supreme Court of a State taking this view of an
act of Assembly passed by that State, approved.

TuE legislature of Pennsylvania incorporated a railway
,ompany, by act of Assembly, one section of which enacted
that any incorporated CITY should have authority to subscribe

Dec. 1863.]

SEYBERT V. CITY OF PITTSBURG.

273

Statement of the case.

to the stock " as fully as any individual," but the act did not
give such cities any power to issue bonds in payment of thei r
subscriptions. However, the city of Pittsburg, in Pennsylvania, having subscribed for several shares of the stock, did
issue its negotiable bonds in payment of the subscription. Some
of these bonds having got into the ownership of the plaintif,
Seybert, and not being paid when due, he sued the city in
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Western District of Pennsylvania, upon them; a case being stated for
judgment. A person named Reinboth, who also owned
some of the bonds, had about the same time sued the city
in one of the State courts of Pennsylvania, and the question
as to the right of the city to issue the bonds was pending in
the Supreme Court of that State when the present case, of
Seybert, came on for argument in the Circuit Court below.
To expedite a decision, which the parties desired to have, in
this, the Supreme Court of the United States, the Circuit
Court entered a judgment pro formd in favor of the city; so
deciding, for the sake of form, that it, the city, could not,
under the powers given, issue its bonds for payment of the
stock subscribed for. Between the time, however, of this
judgment in the court below, and the time when the case
was called for argument here, Reinboth's case had been
decided in the Supreme Court of the State.* That court
said as follows: "The power given to the corporation to subscribe was a power to create a debt, and consequently to give
an evidence of the debt. The nuthority given was to subscribe as fully as an individual; and 's an individual (by
agreement with the company) could have given his bond,
the city corporation had the same power. That grants of
powers to corporations are strictly construed in favor of the
public, but it would be a perversion of the rule to permit a
coporation to use it to defraud its creditors, or protect itself
against its own assumed obligatious. If -Gaey legally owe a
debt, it follows that they can give a bond for it."
* Commonwealth ex rel., Itoinboth v. Councils of Pittsbr rg, 41 Penn.
sylvania State, 278.
18
VOL. 1.

GREGG V. VON PHUL.

[Sup. (%t

Opinion of the court.

MAfr. Knox, for Seybert, submitted the case by brief.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered, in a few words, the opinion
of the court. He stated the case, quoted the language ol
the Pennsylvania decision as just given, and announced that
"as this court fully concur in the construction of the act
made by the highest tribunal of the State of Pennsylvania,
it was unnecessary to make further remark." That the
judgment of the Circuit Court was therefore to be reversed,
and judgment entered for the plaintiff on the special verdict.
JUDGMENT ACCORDINGLY.

GREGG V. VON PHUL.
1. *Whether a coutract to give a deed with "full covenants of seizure and
warranty," is answered by adeed containing a covenant that the grantor
is "lawfully seized in fee simple, and that he will warrant and defend
the title conveyed against the claim or claims of every person whatsoever,"-there not being a further covenant agains incumbrance, and
that the vendor has a ight to sel--need not be decided in a case where
the vendee, under such circumstances, made no objection to the deed
offered, on the ground of insufficient covenants, but only stated that
he was not prepared to pay the money for which he had agreed to give
notes; handing the deed at the same time, and without any further
remark, back to the vendor's agent who had tendered it to him.
2. Where a vendor agrees to give a deed on a day named, and the vendee
to give his notes for the purchase-money at a fixed term from the day
when the deed was thus meant to be ,given, and the vendor does not
give the deed as agreed, but waits till the term that the notes had to run
expires, and then tenders it-the purchaser being, and having always
been in possession-such purchaser will be presumed, in the absence of
testimony, to have acquiesced in the delay; or, at any rate, if when
the deed is tendered he makes no objection to the delay, stating only
that he is not prepared to pay the money for which he had agreed to
givethe notes, and handing back the deed offered,-he will be considered,
on ejectment brought by the vendor to recover his land, to have waived
objections to the vendor's non-compliance with exact time.
8 While it is true that in an executory contract of purchase of land, the
possession is originally rightful, and it may be that until the party in
possession is called upon to restore possession, he cannot be ejected without demand for the property or notice to quit; it is also true that by a
failure to comply with the terms of sale, the vendee's possession becomes tortious, and a righ of immediate action arises to the vendor.

