OCTOBER TERM, 1998
Per Curiam

FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY ET AL.
v. UNITED STATES ET AL.
ON APPLICATION FOR TEMPORARY RESTRAINING ORDER OR
PRELIMINARY INJUNCTION AND ON MOTION FOR LEAVE TO
FILE A BILL OF COMPLAINT
No. 127, Orig. (A-736). Decided March 3, 1999
Plaintiffs moved for leave to file a bill of complaint and for a preliminary
injunction against the United States and the Governor of Arizona, both
raised under this Court's original jurisdiction, seeking, inter alia, enforcement of an ex parte order by the International Court of Justice,
which directed the United States to prevent Arizona's execution of a
German citizen. The action was filed within two hours of an execution
ordered in January, based upon a sentence imposed in 1984, about which
Germany learned in 1992.
Held: Given the tardiness of the pleas and the threshold barriers they
implicate, this Court declines to exercise its original jurisdiction. It
appears that the United States has not waived its sovereign immunity,
and it is doubtful that Art. III, ยง2, cl. 2, provides an anchor for an action
to prevent execution of a German citizen who is not an ambassador or
consul. Also, a foreign government's ability here to assert a claim
against a State is without evident support in the Vienna Convention
and in probable contravention of Eleventh Amendment principles. See
Breard v. Greene, 523 U. S. 371, 377.
Motions denied.
PER CURIAM.

The motion of the Federal Republic of Germany et al.
(plaintiffs) for leave to fie a bill of complaint and the motion
for preliminary injunction against the United States of
America and Jane Dee Hull, Governor of the State of Arizona, both raised under this Court's original jurisdiction, are
denied. Plaintiffs' motion to dispense with printing requirements is granted. Plaintiffs seek, among other relief, enforcement of an order issued this afternoon by the International Court of Justice, on its own motion and with no
opportunity for the United States to respond, directing the

112 FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY v. UNITED STATES
BREYER,

J., dissenting

United States to prevent Arizona's scheduled execution of
Walter LaGrand. Plaintiffs assert that LaGrand holds German citizenship. With regard to the action against the
United States, which relies on the ex parte order of the International Court of Justice, there are imposing threshold
barriers. First, it appears that the United States has not
waived its sovereign immunity. Second, it is doubtful that
Art. III, ยง 2, cl. 2, provides an anchor for an action to prevent
execution of a German citizen who is not an ambassador or
consul. With respect to the action against the State of Arizona, as in Breard v. Greene, 523 U. S. 371, 377 (1998) (per
curiam), a foreign government's ability here to assert a
claim against a State is without evident support in the Vienna Convention and in probable contravention of Eleventh
Amendment principles. This action was filed within only
two hours of a scheduled execution that was ordered on January 15, 1999, based upon a sentence imposed by Arizona in
1984, about which the Federal Republic of Germany learned
in 1992. Given the tardiness of the pleas and the jurisdictional barriers they implicate, we decline to exercise our
original jurisdiction.
JUSTICE SOUTER,

with whom JUSTICE GINSBURG joins,

concurring.
I join in the foregoing order, subject to the qualification
that I do not rest my decision to deny leave to fie the bill of
complaint on any Eleventh Amendment principle. In exercising my discretion, I have taken into consideration the position of the Solicitor General on behalf of the United States.
JUSTICE BREYER, with whom JUSTICE STEVENS joins,
dissenting.
The Federal Republic of Germany et al. (Germany) has
fied a motion for leave to fie a complaint, seeking as relief
an injunction prohibiting the execution of Walter LaGrand
pending final resolution of Germany's case against the United

Cite as: 526 U. S. 111 (1999)
BREYER, J., dissenting

States in the International Court of Justice (ICJ)-a case in
which Germany claims that Arizona's execution of LaGrand
violates the Vienna Convention. Germany also seeks a stay
of that execution "pending the Court's disposition of the motion for leave to file an original bill of complaint after a normal course of briefing and deliberation on that motion."
Motion for Leave to File a Bill of Complaint and for a Temporary Restraining Order or Preliminary Injunction 2 (Motion). The ICJ has issued an order "indicat[ing]" that the
"United States should take all measures at its disposal to
ensure that Walter LaGrand is not executed pending the
final decision in these [ICJ] proceedings."
9, id., at 6-7.
The Solicitor General has filed a letter in which he opposes
any stay. In his view, the "Vienna Convention does not furnish a basis for this Court to grant a stay of execution,"
and "an order of the International Court of Justice indicating
provisional measures is not binding and does not furnish a
basis for judicial relief." The Solicitor General adds, however, that he has "not had time to read the materials thoroughly or to digest the contents." Letter from Solicitor
General Waxman filed Mar. 3, 1999, with Clerk of this Court.
Germany's filings come at what is literally the eleventh
hour. Nonetheless, Germany explains that it did not fie its
case in the ICJ until it learned that the State of Arizona had
admitted that it was aware, when LaGrand was arrested,
that he was a German national. That admission came only
eight days ago, and the ICJ issued its preliminary ruling
only today. Regardless, in light of the fact that both the
ICJ and a sovereign nation have asked that we stay this
case, or "indicate[d]" that we should do so, Motion 6, I would
grant the preliminary stay that Germany requests. That
stay would give us time to consider, after briefing from all
interested parties, the jurisdictional and international legal
issues involved, including further views of the Solicitor General, after time for study and appropriate consultation.

114 FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY v. UNITED STATES
BREYER, J.,

dissenting

The Court has made Germany's motion for a preliminary
stay moot by denying its motion to file its complaint and
"declin[ing] to exercise" its original jurisdiction in light of
the "tardiness of the pleas and the jurisdictional barriers
they implicate." Ante, at 112. It is at least arguable that
Germany's reasons for filing so late are valid, and the jurisdictional matters are arguable. Indeed, the Court says that
it is merely "doubtful that Art. III, ยง2, cl. 2, provides an
anchor" for the suit and that a foreign government's ability
to assert a claim against a State is "without evident support
in the Vienna Convention and in probable contravention of
Eleventh Amendment principles." Ante, at 112 (emphasis
added). The words "doubtful" and "probable," in my view,
suggest a need for fuller briefing.
For these reasons I would grant a preliminary stay.

