OCTOBER TERM, 1998
Syllabus

CENTRAL STATE UNIVERSITY v. AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS, CENTRAL
STATE UNIVERSITY CHAPTER
ON PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE
SUPREME COURT OF OHIO
No. 98-1071. Decided March 22, 1999
Pursuant to Ohio Rev. Code Ann. §3345.45, petitioner university adopted
standards for its professors' instructional workloads and notified respondent, the certified collective-bargaining agent for the professors,
that it would not bargain over the workload issue. Respondent then
filed a complaint in state court for declaratory and injunctive relief, alleging that § 3345.45 created a class of public employees not entitled to
bargain regarding their workload in violation of the Equal Protection
Clauses of the Ohio and United States Constitutions. The Ohio Supreme Court held that the collective-bargaining exemption bore no rational relationship to the State's interest in correcting the imbalance
between research and teaching at its public universities, and concluded
that the State had not shown any rational basis for singling out university professors as the only public employees precluded from bargaining
over their workload.
Held: The Ohio Supreme Court's holding cannot be reconciled with the
requirements of the Equal Protection Clause. This Court has repeatedly held that where a classification involves neither fundamental rights
nor suspect proceedings it cannot run afoul of the Clause if there is a
rational relationship between disparity of treatment and some legitimate governmental purpose. E.g., Heller v. Doe, 509 U. S. 312, 319321. The legislative classification here passes that test. Imposing a
workload policy not subject to collective bargaining was an entirely rational step to accomplish the statute's objective of increasing the time
faculty spent in the classroom. The fact that the record before the Ohio
courts did not show that collective bargaining had lead to the decline in
faculty classroom time does not detract from the legislative decision's
rationality.
Certiorari granted; 83 Ohio St. 3d 229, 699 N. E. 2d 463, reversed and
remanded.

Cite as: 526 U. S. 124 (1999)

Per Curiam
PER CURIAM.

Petitioner Central State University challenges a ruling of
the Ohio Supreme Court striking down on equal protection
grounds a state law requiring public universities to develop
standards for professors' instructional workloads and exempting those standards from collective bargaining. We
grant the petition and reverse the judgment of the Ohio
Supreme Court.
In an effort to address the decline in the amount of time
that public university professors devoted to teaching as opposed to researching, the State of Ohio enacted Ohio Rev.
Code Ann. § 3345.45 (1997). This provision provides in relevant part:
"On or before January 1, 1994, the Ohio board of regents jointly with all state universities ... shall develop
standards for instructional workloads for full-time and
part-time faculty in keeping with the universities' missions and with special emphasis on the undergraduate
learning experience....
"On or before June 30, 1994, the board of trustees of
each state university shall take formal action to adopt
a faculty workload policy consistent with the standards
developed under this section. Notwithstanding [other
provisions making faculty workload at public universities a proper subject for collective bargaining], the policies adopted under this section are not appropriate subjects for collective bargaining. Notwithstanding [these
collective-bargaining provisions], any policy adopted
under this section by a board of trustees prevails over
any conflicting provisions of any collective bargaining
agreement between an employees organization and that
board of trustees."*
*As part of the same bill codified at §3345, the Ohio General Assembly
also enacted uncodified legislation providing that the Board of Regents

126 CENTRAL STATE UNIV. v. AMERICAN ASSN. OF UNIV.
PROFESSORS, CENTRAL STATE UNIV. CHAPTER
Per Curiam

In 1994, petitioner Central State University adopted a workload policy pursuant to §3345.45 and notified respondent, the
certified collective-bargaining agent for Central State's professors, that it would not bargain over the issue of faculty
workload. Respondent subsequently filed a complaint in
Ohio state court for declaratory and injunctive relief, alleging that §3345.45 created a class of public employees not
entitled to bargain regarding their workload and that this
classification violated the Equal Protection Clauses of the
Ohio and United States Constitutions.
By a divided vote, the Ohio Supreme Court agreed with
respondent that §3345.45 deprived public university professors the equal protection of the laws. See 83 Ohio St. 3d
229, 699 N. E. 2d 463 (1998). The court acknowledged that
Ohio's purpose in enacting the statute was legitimate and
that all legislative enactments enjoy a strong presumption
of constitutionality. Id., at 234-235, 699 N. E. 2d, at 468469. Nonetheless, the court held that §3345's collectivebargaining exemption bore no rational relationship to the
State's interest in correcting the imbalance between research and teaching at its public universities. See id., at
236-239, 699 N. E. 2d, at 469-470. The State had argued
that achieving uniformity, consistency, and equity in faculty
workload was necessary to recapture the decline in teaching,
and that collective bargaining produced variation in workloads across universities in departments having the same academic mission. Id., at 236, 699 N. E. 2d, at 469. Reviewing evidence that the State had submitted in support of this
shall work with state universities "to ensure that no later than (the] fall
term 1994, a minimum ten percent increase in statewide undergraduate
teaching activity be achieved to restore the reductions experienced over
the past decade. Notwithstanding section 3345.45 of the Revised Code,
any collective bargaining agreement in effect on the effective date of this
act shall continue in effect until its expiration date." Amended Substitute
House Bill No. 152, § 84.14, 145 Ohio Laws 4539 (effective July 1, 1993).

Cite as: 526 U. S. 124 (1999)

Per Curiam

contention, the Ohio Supreme Court held that "there is not
a shred of evidence in the entire record which links collective
bargaining with the decline in teaching over the last decade,
or in any way purports to establish that collective bargaining
contributed in the slightest to the lost faculty time devoted
to undergraduate teaching." Ibid. Based on this determination, the court concluded that the State had failed to
show "any rational basis for singling out university faculty
members as the only public employees ... precluded from
bargaining over their workload." Id., at 237, 699 N. E. 2d,
at 470.
The dissenting justices pointed out that the majority's
methodology and conclusion conflicted with this Court's
standards for rational-basis review of equal protection challenges. See id., at 238-241, 699 N. E. 2d, at 471-472. In
their view, "that collective bargaining has not caused the
decline in teaching proves nothing in assessing whether the
faculty workload standards imposed pursuant to R. C.
3345.45 legitimately relate to that statute's purpose of
restoring losses in undergraduate teaching activity." Id.,
at 238, 699 N. E. 2d, at 471 (emphasis in original). The majority's review of the State's evidence was therefore "inconsequential" to the only question in the case: whether the
challenged legislative action was arbitrary or irrational.
See id., at 239-242, 699 N. E. 2d, at 472-473. Answering
this question, the dissent concluded that imposing uniform
workload standards via the exemption "is not an irrational
means of effecting an increasing in teaching activity. In
fact, it was probably the most direct means of accomplishing
that objective available to the General Assembly." Id., at
241, 699 N. E. 2d, at 473.
We agree that the Ohio Supreme Court's holding cannot
be reconciled with the requirements of the Equal Protection
Clause. We have repeatedly held that "a classification neither involving fundamental rights nor proceeding along sus-

128 CENTRAL STATE UNIV. v. AMERICAN ASSN. OF UNIV.
PROFESSORS, CENTRAL STATE UNIV. CHAPTER
Per Curiam

pect lines... cannot run afoul of the Equal Protection Clause
if there is a rational relationship between disparity of treatment and some legitimate governmental purpose." Heller
v. Doe, 509 U. S. 312, 319-321 (1993) (citations omitted); FCC
v. Beach Communications, Inc., 508 U. S. 307, 313-314
(1993); Nordlingerv. Hahn, 505 U. S.1, 11 (1992). The legislative classification created by § 3345.45 passes this test.
One of the statute's objectives was to increase the time spent
by faculty in the classroom; the imposition of a faculty workload policy not subject to collective bargaining was an entirely rational step to accomplish this objective. The legislature could quite reasonably have concluded that the policy
animating the law would have been undercut and likely varied if it were subject to collective bargaining. The State,
in effect, decided that the attainment of this goal was more
important than the system of collective bargaining that had
previously included university professors. See Vance v.
Bradley, 440 U. S.93 (1979) (upholding a similar enactment
of Congress providing that federal employees covered by the
Foreign Service retirement system, but not those covered by
the Civil Service retirement system, would be required to
retire at age 60).
The fact that the record before the Ohio courts did not
show that collective bargaining in the past had lead to the
decline in classroom time for faculty does not detract from
the rationality of the legislative decision. See Heller, supra,
at 320 ("A State... has no obligation to produce evidence to
sustain the rationality of a statutory classification"). The
legislature wanted a uniform workload policy to be in place
by a certain date. It could properly conclude that collective
bargaining about that policy in the future would interfere
with the attainment of this end. Under our precedent, this
is sufficient to sustain the exclusion of university professors
from the otherwise general collective-bargaining scheme for
public employees.

Cite as: 526 U. S. 124 (1999)
GINSBURG, J.,

concurring

The petition for a writ of certiorari is granted, the judgment of the Supreme Court of Ohio is reversed, and the case
is remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with
this opinion.
It is so ordered.
JUSTICE GINSBURG,

with whom

JUSTICE BREYER

joins,

concurring.
I join the per curiam opinion recognizing, as the Court did
in Nordlinger v. Hahn, 505 U. S. 1 (1992), that for the mine
run of economic regulations that do not trigger heightened
scrutiny, it is appropriate to inquire whether the lawmaker's classification
"rationally furthers a legitimate state interest. In general, the Equal Protection Clause is satisfied so long as
there is a plausible policy reason for the classification,
see United States RailroadRetirement Bd. v. Fritz,449
U. S.166, 174, 179 (1980), the legislative facts on which
the classification is apparently based rationally may
have been considered to be true by the governmental
decisionmaker, see Minnesota v. Clover Leaf Creamery
Co., 449 U. S.456, 464 (1981), and the relationship of the
classification to its goal is not so attenuated as to render
the distinction arbitrary or irrational, see Cleburne
v. Cleburne Living Center, Inc., 473 U. S. [432, 446
(1985)1." Id., at 11.
I also recognize that a summary disposition is not a fit occasion for elaborate discussion of our rational-basis standards
of review. See Hohn v. United States, 524 U. S.236, 251
(1998) (opinions rendered without full briefing or argument
have muted precedential value). JUSTICE STEVENS emphasizes that this case is of dominant importance to the state
universities in Ohio, see post, at 131 (dissenting opinion); in
that light, the Ohio Supreme Court is of course at liberty to
resolve the matter under the Ohio Constitution.

130 CENTRAL STATE UNIV. v. AMERICAN ASSN. OF UNIV.
PROFESSORS, CENTRAL STATE UNIV. CHAPTER
STEVENS, J., dissenting

dissenting.
While surveying the flood of law reviews that crosses my
desk, I have sometimes wondered whether law professors
have any time to spend teaching their students about the
law. Apparently, a majority of the legislators in Ohio had a
similar reaction to the work product of faculty members in
Ohio's several state universities. By enacting Ohio Rev.
Code Ann. §3345.45 (1997), the legislators decided to do
something about what they perceived to be a problem that
neither the State Board of Regents nor the trustees of those
universities could solve for themselves. Section 3345.45 directs that board and those trustees to develop standards and
policies for instructional workloads for university faculty
members. It provides that faculty members of public universities, unlike any other group of public employees, may
not engage in collective bargaining about their workload.
How the intellectually gifted citizens of Ohio who have
selected teaching as their profession shall allocate their professional endeavors between research and teaching is a matter of great importance to themselves, to their students, and
to the consumers of their scholarly writing. Who shall decide how the balance between research and teaching shall be
struck presents a similarly important question.
Prior to § 3345.45, the faculty members' freedom to make
such decisions was constrained only by the teaching or research assignments imposed by their superiors in the educational establishment. By its enactment of §3345.45, the
Ohio General Assembly has asserted an interest in playing
a role in making these decisions. As a result of the filing of
this lawsuit, first the Ohio courts and now this Court have
also participated in this decisional process.
Buried beneath the legal arguments advanced in this case
lies a debate over academic freedom. In my judgment the
relevant sources of constraint on that freedom are (1) the
self-discipline of the teacher, (2) her faculty or department
supervisors, (3) the trustees of the university where she
JUSTICE STEVENS,

Cite as: 526 U. S. 124 (1999)
STEVENS, J., dissenting

teaches, (4) the State Board of Regents, (5) the state legislature, (6) state judges, and, finally, (7) the judges sitting
on this Court. I omit any reference to the collectivebargaining representatives of the teachers because, as everyone agrees, there is no evidence that collective bargaining
has had any effect on the increased emphasis on research
over teaching that gave rise to the enactment of § 3345.45.1
I have neither the mandate nor the inclination to assess
whether the decision of the Ohio General Assembly to enact
§ 3345.45 was wise or unwise. I am equally convinced that
this Court should not review the role played by the Ohio
judiciary in deciding how to resolve this dispute. The case
is important to the state universities in Ohio, but it has little,
if any, national significance. Seven of the eleven Ohio
judges who reviewed the case concluded that the Ohio statute violated the Ohio Constitution.2

Indeed, the majority

IAfter reviewing studies prepared by the Legislative Office of Education Oversight, by a Special Task Force on Challenges & Opportunities for
Higher Education in Ohio, by the Regents' Advisory Committee on Faculty Workload Standards & Guidelines, by the Regents' Advisory Committee on Faculty Workload, and by the Ohio Board of Regents, as well as
statistical data collected from Ohio colleges and universities, the Ohio Supreme Court concluded:
"We have reviewed each of these reports [relied upon by Central State
University], and all other evidence contained in the record, and can conclude with confidence that there is not a shred of evidence in the entire
record which links collective bargaining with the decline in teaching over
the last decade, or in any way purports to establish that collective bargaining contributed in the slightest to the lost faculty time devoted to undergraduate teaching. Indeed, these reports appear to indicate that factors
other than collective bargaining are responsible for the decline in teaching
activity." 83 Ohio St. 3d 229, 236, 699 N. E. 2d 463, 469 (1998).
2The seven judges include the four from the majority' opinion of the
State Supreme Court and the three judges of the Court of Appeals who
originally struck down §3345.45.
The State Supreme Court held that the statute violated Article I, §2,
of the Ohio Constitution, which provides:
"All political power is inherent in the people. Government is instituted
for their equal protection and benefit, and they have the right to alter,

132 CENTRAL STATE UNIV. v. AMERICAN ASSN. OF UNIV.
PROFESSORS, CENTRAL STATE UNIV. CHAPTER
STEVENS, J., dissenting

opinion of the Ohio Supreme Court did not cite a single case
decided by this Court.
If the State Supreme Court did misconstrue the Equal
Protection Clause of the Federal Constitution, the impact of
that arguable error is of consequence only in the State of
Ohio, and will, in any event, turn out to be totally harmless
if that court adheres to its previously announced interpretation of the State Constitution. I therefore believe that the
Court should deny the petition for certiorari.
If the case does warrant this Court's review, it should not
be decided summarily. It surely should not be disposed of
simply by quoting descriptions of the rational-basis standard
of review articulated in four nonunanimous opinions of this
Court deciding wholly dissimilar issues. Cases applying the
rational-basis test have described that standard in various
ways. Compare, e. g., the Court's opinions in F. S. Royster
Guano Co. v. Virginia, 253 U. S. 412, 415 (1920), and Cleburne v. Cleburne Living Center, Inc., 473 U. S. 432, 446
(1985), with the majority opinion in RailroadRetirement Bd.
v. Fritz,449 U. S. 166, 174-177 (1980). Indeed, in the latter
case there were three opinions, each of which formulated the
rational-basis standard differently from the other two. Ibid.
(majority opinion); id., at 180-181 (STEVENS, J., concurring
in judgment); id., at 183-184 (Brennan, J., dissenting).3
reform, or abolish the same, whenever they may deem it necessary; and
no special privileges or immunities shall ever be granted, that *maynot be
altered, revoked, or repealed by the General Assembly." The court found
it unnecessary to consider respondents additional arguments based, in
part, on other provisions of the State Constitution. Id., at 237, 699 N. E.
2d, at 470.
'In a xootnote to the opinion in Fritz that cited a number of rationalbasis cases, the Court made this observation:
"The most arrogant legal scholar would not claim that all of these cases
applied a uniform or consistent test under equal protection principles.
And realistically speaking, we can be no more certain that this opinion will
remain undisturbed than were those who joined the opinion in Lindsley
[v. Natural Carbonic Gas Co., 220 U. S. 61 (1911)], [F.S.] Royster Guano

Cite as: 526 U. S. 124 (1999)
STEVENS, J.,

dissenting

The Court's disposition of this case seems to assume that
an incantation of the rational-basis test, together with speculation that collective bargaining might interfere with the
adoption of uniform faculty workload policies, makes it unnecessary to consider any other facts or arguments that
might inform an exercise of judgment about the underlying
issue. While I am not prepared to express an opinion about
the ultimate merits of the case, I can identify a serious flaw
in the Court's mechanistic analysis. The Court assumes
that the question improperly answered by the Ohio Supreme
Court is whether collective bargaining may interfere with
the attainment of a uniform workload policy.4 But that is
not the issue, because this case involves the Equal Protection
Clause, and not the principles of substantive due process.
The question posed by this case is whether there is a rational basis for discriminating against faculty members by
depriving them of bargaining assistance that is available to
all other public employees in the State of Ohio. 5 Even the
Court's speculation about the possible adverse consequences
of collective bargaining about faculty workload does not explain why collective bargaining about the workloads of all
other public employees might not give rise to the same adverse consequences arising from lack of statewide uniformCo. [v. Virginia, 253 U. S. 412 (1920)], or any of the other cases referred
to in this opinion and in the dissenting opinion." 449 U. S., at 176-177,
n. 10.
I In addition, the Court's opinion assumes that the ultimate objective of
having teachers spend more time in classrooms requires that there be a
single workload policy for each of the State's universities and for each of
the subjects taught in those schools, whether Latin, medicine, or astrophysics. I am not at all sure that such an assumption is rational.
5Ohio Rev. Code Ann. §4117.03(A)(4) (1998) provides: "Public employees
have the right to: ... Bargain collectively with their public employers to
determine wages, hours, terms and other conditions of employment and
the continuation, modification, or deletion of an existing provision of
a collective bargaining agreement, and enter into collective bargaining
agreements ... "

134 CENTRAL STATE UNIV. v. AMERICAN ASSN. OF UNIV.
PROFESSORS, CENTRAL STATE UNIV. CHAPTER
STEVENS, J., dissenting

ity. Indeed, I would suppose that the interest in protecting
the academic freedom of university faculty members might
provide a rational basis for giving them more bargaining assistance than other public employees. In any event, no one
has explained why there is a rational basis for concluding
that they should receive less.
I respectfully dissent.

