OCTOBER TERM, 1998
Per Curiam

STEWART, DIRECTOR, ARIZONA DEPARTMENT OF
CORRECTIONS, ET AL. V. LAGRAND
ON APPLICATION TO LIFT RESTRAINING ORDER AND PETITION
FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF
APPEALS FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT
No. A-735 (98-1412). Decided March 3, 1999
After Walter LaGrand's conviction and sentence were affirmed by the Arizona Supreme Court and his first federal habeas petition was denied, he
filed this petition, challenging, inter alia, lethal gas as a cruel and unusual form of execution. The District Court denied the petition and a
certificate of appealability. The Ninth Circuit granted the certificate
and denied the stay of execution, but enjoined the State from executing
LaGrand by lethal gas.
Held: The Ninth Circuit's judgment is reversed and its injunctive order
vacated. LaGrand waived his claim that execution by lethal gas is unconstitutional by choosing lethal gas over lethal injection, an alternative
method of execution available in Arizona. To hold otherwise, and to
hold that Eighth Amendment protections cannot be waived in the capital context, would create and apply a new procedural rule in violation
of Teague v. Lane, 489 U.S. 288. In addition, LaGrand's claims are
procedurally defaulted, and he has failed to show cause for his failure to
overcome this bar. At the time of his direct appeal, there was sufficient
debate about the constitutionality of lethal gas executions that he cannot show cause for his failure to raise this claim. He also specifically
waived an alternative claim that his trial counsel was ineffective by
representing to the District Court prior to filing his first federal habeas
petition that there was no basis for such a claim. That claim is also
procedurally defaulted. The Arizona court held that his ineffectiveassistance arguments were barred pursuant to a state procedural rule,
and he has not demonstrated cause or prejudice for his failure to raise
the claims on direct review.
Certiorari granted; judgment reversed and injunction vacated.
PER CURIAM.

Walter LaGrand and Karl LaGrand were each convicted of
first-degree murder, attempted murder in the first degree,
attempted armed robbery, and two counts of kidnaping.
The Arizona Supreme Court gave a detailed account of the

STEWART v. LAGRAND
Per Curiam

crime in Walter LaGrand's appeal. See State v. LaGrand,
153 Ariz. 21, 23-24, 734 P. 2d 563, 565-566 (1987). Following
a jury trial, both Karl LaGrand and Walter LaGrand were
convicted on all charges and sentenced to death. The Arizona Supreme Court affirmed the convictions and sentences.
State v. LaGrand, 152 Ariz. 483, 733 P. 2d 1066 (1987) (Karl
LaGrand); State v. LaGrand,supra (Walter LaGrand). Subsequently, we denied the LaGrands' petitions for certiorari.
See 484 U. S. 872 (1987).
The LaGrands then filed petitions for writs of habeas
corpus pursuant to 28 U. S. C. ยง2254. Until then, Walter
LaGrand had been represented by Bruce Burke, a Tucson
lawyer. Before appointing Burke as counsel in the habeas
proceeding, however, the District Court required Burke to
discuss all possible claims of ineffective assistance of counsel
with Walter LaGrand and to fie a status report with the
court. See 133 F. 3d 1253, 1269 (CA9 1998). Walter LaGrand informed Burke that he did not desire a new attorney and requested that Burke continue to represent him.
Ibid. Nevertheless, after Burke learned that Karl LaGrand
was pursuing ineffective-assistance-of-counsel claims, Burke
moved to withdraw as counsel. The District Court denied
this motion on the ground that "Walter LaGrand entered a
waiver of any potential claims of ineffective assistance of
counsel and Mr. Burke indicated to the Court that he believes no such grounds existed." LaGrand v. Lewis, 883
F. Supp. 451, 456, n. 3 (1995). The Ninth Circuit affirmed,
holding that "[w]hen Walter waived the offer of new counsel,
he was waiving the benefits of new representation, among
which would potentially have been the presentation of this
sort of [ineffective-assistance claim]." 133 F. 3d, at 1269.
Among the claims raised in Walter LaGrand's petition for
a writ of habeas corpus was the claim that execution by lethal gas constituted cruel and unusual punishment under the
Eighth Amendment to the United States Constitution. The

Cite as: 526 U. S. 115 (1999)

Per Curiam

District Court found the claim to be procedurally defaulted
because Walter LaGrand had failed to raise it either on direct
appeal or in his petition for state postconviction relief, when
the sole method of execution was by way of lethal gas. On
appeal, the Ninth Circuit did not reach the issue of procedural default because it found the claim was not ripe until
and unless LaGrand chose gas as his method of execution.
Id., at 1264. The petition for writ of habeas corpus was denied. Id., at 1269.
In February 1999, Karl LaGrand ified a successive state
petition for postconviction relief raising the claim that execution by lethal gas constituted cruel and unusual punishment. The trial court found the claim moot and precluded
due to Karl LaGrand's failure to raise the claim in prior state
court proceedings, and the Arizona Supreme Court denied
review. Karl LaGrand again raised the claim in a second
federal habeas corpus petition. The District Court again
found the claim procedurally defaulted and concluded that
Karl LaGrand had failed to establish cause and prejudice or
a fundamental miscarriage of justice to excuse the default.
The District Court denied that petition, but the Court of
Appeals reversed.
The Ninth Circuit held that Karl LaGrand's lethal gas
claim was procedurally barred but found cause and prejudice to excuse the default. The court concluded that Karl
LaGrand's failure to raise the lethal gas claim was excused
because there was no legal or factual basis for the claim
when he pursued his direct appeal in state court. Prejudice was shown because he was now faced with execution by
a method the Ninth Circuit had previously found to be
unconstitutional.
The Ninth Circuit also addressed the State's argument
that Karl LaGrand's choice of execution method constituted
a waiver of his current claim. According to the Ninth Circuit, its precedent dictated that "Eighth Amendment protec-

STEWART v. LAGRAND
Per Curiam

tions may not be waived, at least in the area of capital punishment." See LaGrand v. Stewart, 173 F. 3d 1144, 1148
(1999). As part of its ultimate order, the Court of Appeals
stayed Karl LaGrand's execution and enjoined Arizona "from
executing Karl Hinze LaGrand, or anyone similarly situated,
by means of lethal gas." Id., at 1149. The State filed an
application to vacate the stay, which we granted. Subsequently Karl LaGrand's lawyers moved to clarify our order
to determine whether the Ninth Circuit's injunction was still
in place. We denied this motion. 525 U. S.1174 (1999). At
the last moment, Karl LaGrand requested the use of lethal
injection, which the State allowed, and the validity of the
Ninth Circuit's injunction was not tested.
This case followed. Like Karl LaGrand, Walter LaGrand
filed a petition for writ of habeas corpus challenging lethal
gas as a cruel and unusual form of execution. The District
Court declined to follow the Ninth Circuit's previous opinion
in LaGrand v. Stewart, No. 99-99004 (Feb. 23, 1999), concluding that our lifting of the stay of execution necessarily
vacated the merits of the Ninth Circuit's decision. The District Court also denied a certificate of appealability, concluding that "the issue of procedural default of Petitioner's lethal
gas challenge is not debatable among jurists of reason."
Pet. for Cert. 5.
The Ninth Circuit panel granted a certificate of appealability and proceeded to the merits of the case. It concluded
that our order lifting the stay of execution in LaGrand v.
Stewart, No. 99-99004 (Feb. 23, 1999), did not pass upon the
merits of the panel's opinion and concluded that its reasoning
remained sound. It then denied the stay of execution but
restrained and enjoined the State of Arizona from executing
Walter LaGrand by means of lethal gas.
The State has filed a petition for writ of certiorari and an
application to lift the Court of Appeals' injunction. We now
grant the petition for certiorari, summarily reverse the judgment, and vacate the Court of Appeals' injunctive order.

Cite as: 526 U. S. 115 (1999)

Per Curiam

I

Walter LaGrand, by his actions, has waived his claim that
execution by lethal gas is unconstitutional. At the time
Walter LaGrand was sentenced to death, lethal gas was the
only method of execution available in Arizona, but the State
now provides inmates a choice of execution by lethal gas or
lethal injection, see Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. ยง 13-704(B) (Supp.
1998) (creating a default rule of execution by lethal injection). Walter LaGrand was afforded this choice and decided
to be executed by lethal gas. On March 1, 1999, Governor
Hull of Arizona offered Walter LaGrand an opportunity to
rescind this decision and select lethal injection as his metho1
of execution. Walter LaGrand, again, insisted that he desired to be executed by lethal gas. By declaring his method
of execution, picking lethal gas over the State's default form
of execution-lethal injection-Walter LaGrand has waived
any objection he might have to it. See, e.g., Johnson v.
Zerbst, 304 U. S. 458, 464 (1938). To hold otherwise, and to
hold that Eighth Amendment protections cannot be waived
in the capital context, would create and apply a new procedural rule in violation of Teague v. Lane, 489 U. S. 288 (1989).
II
In addition, Walter LaGrand's claims are procedurally defaulted, and he has failed to show cause to overcome this bar.
See Coleman v. Thompson, 501 U. S. 722, 750 (1991). At the
time of Walter LaGrand's direct appeal, there was sufficient
debate about the constitutionality of lethal gas executions
that Walter LaGrand cannot show cause for his failure to
raise this claim. Arguments concerning the constitutionality of lethal gas have existed since its introduction as a
method of execution in Nevada in 1921. See H. Bedau, The
Death Penalty in America 16 (3d ed. 1982). In the period
immediately prior to Walter LaGrand's direct appeal, a number of States were reconsidering the use of execution by lethal gas, see Gray v. Lucas, 710 F. 2d 1048, 1059-1061 (CA5

STEWART v. LAGRAND
Opinion of SOUTER, J.

1983) (discussing evidence presented by the defendant and
changes in Nevada's and North Carolina's methods of execution), and two United States Supreme Court Justices had
expressed their views that this method of execution was unconstitutional, see Gray v. Lucas, 463 U. S. 1237, 1240-1244
(1983) (Marshall, J., joined by Brennan, J., dissenting from
denial of certiorari). In addition, lethal gas executions have
been documented since 1937, when San Quentin introduced
it as an execution method, and studies of the effect of execution by lethal gas date back to the 1950's. See Bedau, supra,
at 16.
III
Walter LaGrand's alternative argument, that his
ineffective-assistance-of-counsel claim suffices as cause, also
fails. Walter LaGrand specifically waived the claim that his
trial counsel was ineffective, representing to the District
Court prior to filing his first federal habeas petition that
there was no basis for such claims. See LaGrandv. Lewis,
883 F. Supp., at 456, n. 3; 133 F. 3d, at 1269. In addition, the
ineffective-assistance claim is, itself, procedurally defaulted.
The Arizona court held that Walter LaGrand's ineffectiveassistance arguments were barred pursuant to a state procedural rule, see State v. LaGrand, No. CR-07426, Minute
Entry (Pima County Super. Ct., Mar. 2, 1999), and Walter
LaGrand has failed to demonstrate cause or prejudice for his
failure to raise these claims on direct review.
Accordingly, the judgment of the United States Court of
Appeals for the Ninth Circuit is reversed, and its injunctive
order is vacated.
It is so ordered.
JUSTICE SOUTER, with whom JUSTICE GINSBURG

and

JUSTICE BREYER join, concurring in part and concurring

in the judgment.
I join Part I of the per curiam opinion, on the understanding that petitioner makes no claim that death by lethal

Cite as: 526 U. S. 115 (1999)
STEVENS, J.,

121

dissenting

injection would be cruel and unusual under the Eighth
Amendment. I do not reach any issue of the applicability of
Teague v. Lane, 489 U. S. 288 (1989).
dissenting.
In my opinion the answer to the question whether a capital
defendant may consent to be executed by an unacceptably
torturous method of execution is by no means clear. I would
not decide such an important question without full briefing
and argument.
I, therefore, respectfully dissent.
JUSTICE STEVENS,

