226

CRAIG V. SIITH.

[Sup. Ct.

upon the defendant. Railroad Company v. Gladmon, 15 Wall.
401; Wharton, Negligence, sect. 423, and authorities there cited
in note 1; Indianapolis & St. Louis Railroad Co. v. Horst,
93 U. S. 291.
Our attention has been called to two cases determined in
the Supreme Court of Texas, and which, it is urged, sustain
the principles announced in the court below. After a careful
consideration of those cases, we are of opinion that they do
not necessarily conflict with the conclusions we have reached.
Be this as it may, the questions before us, in the absence of
statutory regulations by the State in which the cause of action
arose, depend upon principles of general law, and in their determination we are not required to follow the decisions of the
State courts.
Judgment reversed, and cause remanded, with directions to set
aside the vdrdict and award a new trial, and for such other
proceedings as may be consistent with this opinion.
NOTE. - 73 N. Y. 40; 49 id. 530; 53 id. 551; 59 id. 517; 13 Allen, 440; 48 Me.
116; 66 id. 425; 3 Dillon, 321; 55 Ill. 492; 45 id. 197; 60 id. 175; 8 Allen, 441;
1 Coldw. 613; 38 Wis. 203; 78 Pa. St. 32; 46 Mo. 169; 20 Minn. 9; 3 Sawyer, 444;
Wharton, Negligence (2d ed.), sects. 199-242 and notes.

CRAIG v. SMITE.
1. Papers properly belonging to the files of a court should not be removed therefrom, except in cases of positive necessity. When, therefore, an appeal is
taken, no order for transmitting such papers ought to he made, unless the
actual inspection of them as originals is required to enable the appellate
court to give them their just and full effect in the determination of the suit.
2. Where, on an appeal, papers have been improperly sent here, the order of the
court below will be closely examined, to determine whether they are included
in its terms.
3. Where, in a case involving the infringement and validity of letters-patent, tLe
Circuit Court, on the allowance of an appeal from its final decree, directed
its clerk to transmit with the transcript "the original exhibits, patent certificates, schedules, drawings, and models on file, along with and as part of
the record and transcript," -Held, that certain affidavits sent here, but not
copied into the transcript, although they had been filed as "exhibits" with
the bill and the answer thereto, and by consent treated and read as deposi.

Oct. 1879.]

CRAIG V. SMITH.

tong on the hearing below, cannot be considered here as proofs in the cause,
as they are not embraced by the order, the purpose of which was to send
what had been exlbited below, as contradistinguished from what had been
rfad.
4. Allowing, under a bill of review, the introduction of newly discovered evidence
'o trove facts in issue on the former hearing rests in the sound discretion
of the court, to be exercised cautiously and sparingly, and only under circiawtances which render it indispensable to the merits and justice of the
culll C.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Kansas.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
The case was argued for the appellant by iXIr. Gharles S,
WVitrzan, and for the appellee by Mr. iIatt. H. Carpenter.

MR. CHIEF JUrSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.

Samuel F. Craig, the appellant, on the 2d of February, 1872,
filed in the Circuit Court a bill in equity against Jacob Smith and
George D. Hale, to enjoin them from using an improved welltube, for which he claimed to have letters-patent from the United
States bearing date June 11, 1867. They answered, attacking
the validity of the letters-patent: 1, Because the patented invention had been described in a certain printed publication publicly
circulated and distributed prior to his supposed invention; 2,
because it bad been anticipated by certain other persons whose
names and places of residence were given; and, 3, because it
had been in public use more than two years before the date of
the alleged letters-patent. A replication to this answer was
filed, and proofs were taken. The cause was heard June 5,
1873, and a decree entered sustaining the letters-patent, awarding an injunction, and ordering a reference to a master to take
an account of profits. The master made his report Dec. 12,
1873, and on the same day leave to file a petition for rehearing
within forty days was granted the defendants. This petition
was filed Jan. 21, 1874, and set forth that since the hearing
the defendants had discovered evidence of new and substantive
facts which they had not been able to discover before, and
which they were advised and believed were material and pertinent to the issues. This new matter was: 1, Letters-patent
issued by the United States to Charles Batcheller, of Keene,

CRAIG V. SMITH.

[Sup. Ct.

New Hampshire, as early as Dec. 12, 1865, for an invention
alleged to be substantially like that of Craig; and, 2, an extensive prior knowledge and use during the years 1865 and 1866,
in various places throughout the United States, of well-tubes
in all material respects like that in dispute. The names and
places of residence of twenty-five persons who had this prior
knowledge of the thing patented, and who knew of its prior
use, were given, and in addition affidavits of each one of these
persons, showing what they knew and had seen, were attached
to the petition as exhibits.
The petition further stated that the defendants were general
hardware dealers at Topeka, Kansas, and in the course of their
business sold the well-tubes claimed to be an infringement of
Craig's letters-patent; that when the suit was commenced they
employed counsel, naming him to conduct their defence; that,
as they believed, he used due diligence in procuring evidenl2e,
but that notwithstanding his and their efforts they never really
obtained any available clew to the facts until after the former
hearing; that the patent to Batcheller was not found until
September, 1873, and it was after that date when they actually
ascertained that they could prove by the persons named the
facts set out in the affidavits made exhibits; "that since the
commencement of the suit, through all such likely sources as
they could discover or were informed of, the said defendants
have made persistent inquiry and search after the facts material and pertinent to the issues in said cause, but owing to the
often uncertain character of their information, the scattered
situation of the sources of information, and, withal, the delay
and obstacles, not easily surmounted, which were necessarily
attendant upon such inquiry and search, they wholly failed to
discover any of the evidence herewith exhibited until long after
the submission, hearing, and decree in said cause as aforesaid."
Attached to the petition as an exhibit was an affidavit of the
counsel showing his diligence in the premises. The petition
was sworn to by one of the defendants.
On the 24th of January, 1874, a supplemental petition was
filed, setting forth a considerable number of rejected applications for letters-patent for improvements in well-tubes, which,
it was claimed, described the complainant's patented invention.

Oct. 1879.]

CRAIG V. SMITH.

All the several applications were attached to the supplemental
petition as exhibits. On the 13th of February, 1874, Craig
asked and obtained leave until April 1, for the filing of counteraffidavits, and the defendants were allowed until May 1, for
such further steps on their part as they should be advised were
necessary.
To the petition and supplement Craig, on the 27th of April,
filed his answer, insisting that the newly discovered matter was
wholly inadmissible, in fact and in law, for the purpose of
obtaining a rehearing, because it had all existed before the
former hearing, and no sufficient reason was shown for the
omission to procure it, and because it was cumulative only.
He then denied that the patent to Batcheller anticipated his
"nvention, and denied that the several persons named ever saw
in use well-tubes like his before his letters-patent were granted.
He then took up the several affidavits filed with the petition
as exhibits, and gave his reasons in each case why they did
not sustain the claims of the defendants. In addition to this,
he produced a large number of counter-affidavits, which he
attached and made exhibits to his answer.
On the 9th of June, the defendants filed a replication to the
answer of Craig, and on the same day the fcllowing order was
entered on the journal of the court :"This cause coming to be further heard on a petition of the
defendants for a rehearing, and it appearing that the decree
had been enrolled before the said petition for a rehearing was
filed in this court, it is ordered by the court, the parties consenting, that the petition for rehearing stand as and for a bill
of review, and that the answer to said petition stand as an
answer to said bill of review, and that the replication stand as
a replication to the said answer. It is further ordered by the
court, upon the consent of the parties hereto, that the affidavits
taken by the parties and filed herein stand and be treated as
depositions, and as such be read on the hearing. And the
said cause being submitted by the parties to the court on the
original bill, answer, and replication, and the bill ofi review,
answer, and replication thereto, and the proofs, exhibits, and
drawings exhibited from the Patent Office, and models filed in
the case, as well those used on the original bill, answer, and

CRAIG V. SMITH.

[Sup. at.

replication as those taken and filed with the bill of review,
answer, and reply, was taken under advisement."
At the next term, the bill of review was sustained, the original decree reversed, and the bill of the complainant dismissed
with costs. At the same term, an appeal by Craig from this
decree was allowed, and the following order made: "And it is ordered by the court that the clerk of this court
transmit to the Supreme Court of the United States the original exhibits, patent certificates, schedules, drawings, and models
on file, along with and as part of the record and transcript in this
cause."
In making up the transcript of the record the clerk below
omitted all the affidavits filed with the bill of review and
answer thereto, and sent up the originals. In printing the
record for the use of the court those affidavits were omitted,
and the courtxeclining to allow them to be used at the hearing on that account, the appellant moved that they be printed,
and the hearing suspended until that could be done.
It is necessary to determine at the outset whether the affidavits which were attached as exhibits to the bill of review and
the answer thereto, and brought here as original papers and
not copied into the transcript, will be considered as part of the
proofs in the case.
In the act of 1803 (2 Stat. 244), which first authorized
appeals to this court in "cases of equity, of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, and of prize or ni prize," it was provided
"that, upon such appeal, a transcript of the libel, bill, answer,
depositions, and all other proceedings of what kind soever in
the cause, shall be transmitted to the said Supreme Court; and
that no new evidence shall be received in the said court, on the
hearing of such appeal, except in admiralty and prize causes."
Under this statute it was held, in the case of The .Elsineur
(1 Wheat. 439), that, where an inspection of original documents was material to the decision of a prize cause, this court
would order the original paper to be sent up from the court
below. This decision was made in 1816, and the next year
the following rule was promulgated (2 Wheat. vii.) : " Whenever it shall be necessary or proper, in the opinion of the presiding judge in any circuit court, or distiet court exercising

Oct. 1879.]

ORAIG v. SMITH.

circuit court jurisdiction, that original papers of any kind
should be inspected in the Supreme Court on appeal, such presiding judge may make such rule or order for the safe-keeping,
transporting, and return of such original papers as to him may
seem proper, and this court will receive and consider such original papers in connection with the transcript of the proceedings."
This rule, with some slight modifications, not at all important
to the present inquiry, is still in force as par. 4, rule 8. In
1823, the following rule was adopted (8 Wheat. vi.): "No
cause will hereafter be heard until a complete record shall be
filed, containing in itself, without references aliunde, all the
papers, ecxhibits, depositions, and other proceedings which are
necessary to the hearing in this court." This rule is still in
force as par. 3, rule 8. The statute law regulating this subject
remained unchaiiged until 1864, when the "act to regulate
prize proceedings and the distribution of prize-money, and for
other purposes" (13 Stat. 306), was passed. Sect. 13 of that
act provided for appeals in prize causes direct from the district
courts, and for the transfer, on proper application, of causes
then pending in the circuit courts to the Supreme Court.
Then followed this language :"All appeals to the Supreme Court from the Circuit Court, in
prize causes, now remaining therein, shall be claimed and allowed
in the same manner as in cases of appeal from the District Court to
the Supreme Court. In any case of appeal or transfer the court
below, or the appellate court, may order any original document or
other evidence to be sent up, in addition to the copy of the record,
or in lieu of a copy of a part thereof."
From this it is clear to our minds that it was the intention
of Congress to confine its legislation on this subject to prize
causes, leaving the rules of court alone in force as to other
cases; but in the revision of this statute this special provision
of the act of 1864 was reproduced in sect. 698, which is as follows: "Upon the appeal of any cause in equity, or of admiralty and
maritime jurisdiction, or of prize or no prize, a transcript of the
record, as directed bylaw to be made, and copies of the proofs, and
of such entries and papers on file as may be necessary on the hear-

CRAIG V. SMITH.

[Sup. Ct.

ing of the appeal, shall be transmitted to the Supreme Court:
Prov-.7ed, that *either the court below or the Supreme Court may
order any original document or other evidence to be sent up, in
addition to the copy of the record, or in lieu of a copy of a part
thereof. And on such appeals no new evidence shall be received
in the Supreme Court, except in admiralty and prize causes."
Construing this statute in the light of those from which it
was taken, and the practice that had prevailed in the courts,
which it was undoubtedly intended to confirm, we think the
power of the courts below, and of this court, over the transmission of original papers to this court on appeal, is, and should
be, confined to such as require actual inspection as originals
in order to give them their full effect in the determination of
the suit. We will not undertake to control the discretion of
the courts below in sending up papers which, in their judgment, require inspection; but where papers come up that ought
not to be sent, we will look closely to the language of the
order below to see whether they are included within its provisions.
Here the papers which have come up are what were used
below as ordinary depositions, and there certainly appears to
be no good reason why they should not be copied into the transcript. No complaint was made of their authenticity, and, so
far as any representations have been made to us, there can be no
possible necessity for their inspection. The order of the court
was for the transmission of "the original exhibits, patent certificates, schedules, drawings, and models on file, along with
and as part of the record and transcript." It is true that the
affidavits were attached as exhibits to the. bill of review and
answer, but we think the term "exhibit" was not used in that
sense in the order. The evident purpose of the court was not
to send here the original of what was to be read simply, but of
what was to be looked at for the impression it was to produce.
They ordered up what had been exhibited below as contradistinguished from what had been read. In that sense, the order
conforms to what has always been the practice, from which we
are not inclined to depart. Prudence requires that papers
which properly belong on the files of a court should never be
removed, except in cases of positive necessity and any thing

Oct. 1879.]

CRAIG V. SM!ITH.

which has an opposite tendency should be promptly discouraged
here and elsewhere.
For these reasons, we hold that the original affidavits which
have been sent up by the clerk below are no part of the transcript in the cause, and that the clerk of this court was right in
not having them printed. The motion to print them now is also
overruled, because, if printed, they cannot be considered by us
a Fart of the proof. This being so, we must, under the understanding by which the hearing was permitted to go on, consider
the case as it was argued; that is to say, as upon a demurrer to
the bill of review, or more properly, perhaps, as if the allegations made in the bill of review had been established by the
evidence. In this condition of the case we may lay aside all
the allegations in respect to the prior undiscovered patent issued
to Batcheller, and all the newly discovered applications for
patents on file in the Patent Office, rejected for want of patentability or otherwise. There is still left all that relates to the
newly discovered evidence of the prior knowledge and use of
machines like that patented. The averments as to this are
full and complete, and notice of the names and places of residence of the persons alleged to have had such knowledge and
to have seen the use is given with sufficient particularity.
If the averments in this respect were true, and the newly
discovered evidence was such as could be made available by
bill of review, there can be no doubt that the original decree
was wrong.
It is contended, however, that the evidence could not be used
because it related to matters which existed at and prior to the
former hearing, and by the use of proper diligence it might have
been found and produced at that time, and also because the
evidence was cumulative only. The bill avers that due dili
gence was used to find the evidence, but without success. This
is one of the facts which, for the purposes of this hearing, we
are to consider as proved by the evidence submitted below, but
not sent here.
There is no universal or absolute rule which prohibits the
courts from allowing the introduction of newly discovered evidence under a bill of review to prove facts which were in issue
on the former hearing. "But the allowance of it is not a mat-

CRAIG V. SMITH.

[Sup. Ct.

ter of right in the party, but of sound discretion in the court,
to be exercised cautiously and sparingly, and only under circumstances which demonstrate it to be indispensable to the
merits and justice of the cause." Such was the language of
Mr. Justice Story, in Wood v. Mann (2 Sumn. 334), and he
states the rule none too strongly. In the absence of the evidence produced below, we are to presume that this case was
brought within this requirement. In the original answer, a
prior invention of one Young was set up, which, it was said,
was like that of Craig, and the public use of this machine with
the consent and allowance of Young in Mobile and Memphis.
The new matter alleged in the bill of review relates to other
machines used in other places. In legal effect, the bill of
review gave new notice of prior knowledge and use by different persons and in different places from those set out in the
answer. That a proper case was made for the admission of the
evidence may fairly be inferred from the fact that, without submitting that question to the court, all parties went to a hearing,
by consent, upon the merits of the case as presented under the
original bill and the bill of review.
It is also contended that, even though the review was right,
it was wrong to dismiss the original bill on the first hearing,
and without an answer on file giving notice of the new matter;
that is to say, of the names and places of residence of the persons alleged to have been discovered, who had knowledge of
the prior invention and prior use, as required by sect. 4920 of
the Revised Statutes. It is a sufficient answer to this to say
that the cause was submitted by the parties "on the original
bill, answer, and replication, and the bill of review, answer,
and replication thereto, and the proofs, . . . as well those used
on the original bill, answer, and replication, as those taken and
filed with the bill of review, answer, and reply." This was
clearly a submission of the whole case on the merifs after a
review granted. The bill of review contained all the notice
* to Craig that he could demand, and as it was filed more than
thirty days before the final submission of the cause, all the requirements of sect. 4920, Rev. Stat., were substantially complied with.
.Decree affirmed.

