DICKERSON V. COLGROVE.

[Sup. Ct.

The decree of the Circuit Court will be reversed, and the
cause remanded with directions to dismiss the bill of complaint;
and it is
So ordered.

DICKERSON V. COLGROVE.
A., the owner in fee of lands in Michigan, died in February, 1853, leaving his two
children B. and C. his only heirs-at-law. On March 3, C. and her husband
conveyed the lands by warranty deed to D., who put it upon record March 6,
1854, and entered into possession of them April 1 of that year. D. learning of
the existence of B., and that he lived in California, wrote to him, inquiring
whether he made any claim to the premises. On April 1, 1856, the latter addressed from California to his sister C., in Michigan, a letter, wherein he said,
"1You can tell D. for me he need not fear any thing from me. . .. You can
laim all there. This letter will be enough for him. I intended to give you
and yours all my property there, and more if you need it." The contents of
that letter becoming known to D., he, for a valuable consideration and by
deeds with covenants of warranty, conveyed in fee the lands to E. and others,
irho thereunder have ever since occupied and improved them. July 9, 1865,
B. conveyed the undivided half of them by quitclaim deed to F., who, March
6, 1873, brought ejectment. Hedd, 1. That B.'s letter of April 1,1856, operates
as an estoppel in pais which precludes him from setting up a claim to them,
and is an available defence to the action. 2. That IF. was not a bona idd
purchaser, and that whatever title he acquired was subject to the legal and
equitable rights of D. and those claiming under the latter.

ERROR. to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Michigan.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. George W. Lawton for the plaintiff in error.

Mr.

.T.Smiley, contra.

MR. JUSTICE SwAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action of ejectment brought by Dickerson and
Wheeler. The latter died during the progress of the suit.
The parties agreed in writing to submit the case to the court
without the inteiziention of a jury.

The court found the facts.

So far as it is necessary to state them, they may be thus summaHe
rized: Micaja.h Chauncey owned the land in controversy.

died on the

-

day of February, 1853, leavink" two children,

Out. 1879.]

DICKERSON V. COLGROVE.

Edmund Chauncey and Sarah Kline. They were his only heirsit-law. He is the common source of title of all the parties in
this litigation. On the 3d of March, 1853, John Kline and
Sarah his wife conveyed by warranty deed the entire premises
to Lowell Morton. The deed was duly recorded on the 6th of
March, 1854, and on the 1st of April, 1854, Lowell Morton
entered into possession of the premises. He and the defendants
have ever since been in actual possession, claiming to own and
hold the property as tenants in common. The latter were in
possession at the commencement of this suit, claiming title
through conveyances from Lowell Morton. Prior to the 1st
of April, 1856, Lowell Morton learned that Edmund Chauncey
was one of the children of Micajah Chauncey, and that he lived
in California. Whereupon Lowell Morton procured Eleazer
Morton to write to Edmund Chauncey to learn whether he
made any claim to the premises. On the 1st of April, 1856,
Edmund Chauncey, still living in California, addressed a letter
to his sister, Sarah Kline, then living in Michigan, wherein he
disavowed, in strong terms, the intention ever to assert such a
claim.
The contents of this letter subsequently came to the knowledge of Lowell. Morton, who thereafter conveyed to the defendants by warranty deeds. Under these deeds they have since
held and claimed title, and have occupied and improved the
property. On the 9th of July, 1865, Edmund Chauncey conveyed the undivided half of the premises, by quitclaim deed,
to Orlando B. Dickerson and James Witherell. On the 1st of
May, 1868, Witherell conveyed all his right, title, and interest
to William W. Wheeler, one of the original plaintiffs. The
suit was instituted on the 6th of March, 1873. Lowell Morton
and the defendants bad then been in possession eighteen years
and eleven months. The court below held as conclusions of
law that the action was barred by the Statute of Limitations of
.Michigan of 1863, and by an estoppel in pais, and gave judgment accordingly. The plaintiff thereupon sued out this writ
of error.
Both the conclusions of law are relied upon as efrors for the
reversal of the judgment. Our remarks will be confined to the
point of estoppel.

DICKERSON V. COLGROVE.

[Sup. Ct.

This defence is founded upon the letter of Edmund Chauncey.
The contents of the letter of Morton, to which it refers, are not
given in the finding of facts, but the subject of that ltter and
the inquiry which it made appear clearly in the letter of Chauncey. He said: "Mr. Morton wrote me a letter. He wanted to
know if I intended to claim any of the Conger farm" (meaning
the premises in controversy). "You can tell Mr. Morton for
me, he need not fear any thing from me. Thank God, I am
well off here, and you can claim all there. This letter will be
enough for him. I intended to give you and ydurs all my property there, and more if you need it." The phrase, "I intended
to give," &c., implies that he knew his half of the farm bad
already been sold to Morton, and that he could not, therefore,
give his sister, to whom the letter was addressed, any part of
that property. It does not appear iat there was any other
property held by them as coparceners. He says further, that
he intended to give her more if she needed it. All this was
communicated to Lowell Morton. What was the effect upon
him? He was lulled into security. He took no measures to
perfect his title, nor to procure any redress from the Klines,
who had conveyed and been paid for the whole of the property
while they owned but the half. On the contrary, he gave thereafter deeds of warranty to all the defendants, - who are sixtytwo in number, - and he and they occupied and improved the
premises down to the commencement of this suit. Between
that time and the date of the letter was a period of nearly seventeen years. What improvements were made and how far the
property had risen in value are not disclosed, nor does it appear
what stimulated Chauncey to violate his promise and commence
this attack on the defendants.
The estoppel here relied upon is known as an equitable estoppel, or estoppel in pais. The law upon the subject is well
settled. The vital principle is that he who by his language or
conduct leads another to do what he would not otherwise have
done, shall not subject such person to loss or injury by disappointing the expectations upon which he acted. Such a change
of position is sternly forbidden. It involves fraud and falsehood,
and the law abhors both. This remedy is always so applied as
to promote the ends of justice. It is available only for pro-

Oct. 1879.]

DICKERSON V. COLGROVE.

tection, and cannot be used as a weapon of assault. It accomplishes that which ought to be done between man and man,
and is not permitted to go beyond this limit. It is akin to the
principle involved in the limitation of actions, and does its
w ork of justice and repose where the statute cannot be invoked.
Here, according to the finding of the court, the time of adverse
possession lacked but a year and a month of being twenty
years, - when, it is conceded the statutory bar would have
been complete.
In , xton v. Paxon (28 Mich, 159), a mortgagee holding
several mortgages prevailed on a son of the deceased mortgagor,
then intending to remove to a distance, to remain on the premises and support the family, by assuring him that the mortgages
should never be enforced. The son supported the family, and
the property grew in value under his tillage. After the lapse
of several years the mortgagee proceeded to foreclose. He was
held to be estopped by his assurafices upon which the son had
acted. The court said: "The complainant may have estopped
himself without any positive agreement, if he intentionally led
the defendants to do or abstain from doing any thing involving
labor or expenditure to any considerable amount, by giving
them to understand they should be relieved from the burden of
the mortgages. In Hfarkness v. Toulmin (25 id. 80) and Truesdale v. Ward (24 id. 117) this principle was applied, in the
former case, to the extent of destroying a chattel mortgage,
and in the latter, of forfeiting rights under a land contract,
where parties were led to believe they were abandoned. There
is no rule more necessary to enforce good faith than that which
compels a person to abstain from asserting claims which he
-has induced others to suppose he would not rely on. The rule
does not rest on the assumption that he has obtained any personal gain or advantage, but on the fact that he has induced
others to act in such a manner that they will be seriously prejudiced if he is allowed to fail in carrying out what he has
encouraged them to expect." Cooley, J., was inclined to doubt
the sufficiency of the proof, but said, finally: "His" (the
mortgagee's) "assurances have undoubtedly been relied upon
and acted upon by the defendants, and, considering the great
lapse of time without any claim under the mortgages on the

DICKERSON V. COLGROVE.

[Sup. Ct

part of the complainant, I am not disposed to dissent from the
conclusion of my brethren." The case before us arose also in
Michigan. In -vans et al. v. Snyder et al. (64 Mo. 516), the
heirs assailed an administrator's sale. No order of sale could
be found. This was held to be a fatal defect. But the Supreme
Court of the State held that where they stood silently by for
years, while the occupant was making valuable and lasting improvements on the property, and redeeming it from the lien of
the ancestor's debts, they would be estopped from afterwards
asserting their claim. Here, as by Judge Cooley, stress is laid
upon the lapse of time. This is also a feature of the case in
hand.
Other authorities to the same effect are very numerous.
They may be readily found. It is unnecessary to extend this
opinion by referring to them.
We think the facts disclosed in the record make a complete
case of estoppel in pais.
But it is said this objection to the plaintiff's claim is not
available at law, and must be set up in equity.
"This is certainly not the common law. Littleton says:
'And so a man can see one thing in this case, that a man shall
be estopped by matter of fact, though there be no writing, by
deed or otherwise.' Lord Coke, commenting hereon, gives an
instance of estoppel by matter in fact, - this very case of partition. Co. Litt. 856, sect. 667. And such an award has been
held sufficient to estop a party against whom ejectment was
brought. -Doe d.Norris et al. v. -osser, 3 East, 15." Brou,n
v. Wheeler, 17 Conn. 845, 353.
In City of Cincinnati v. Lessee of White (6 Pet. 431), the
proprietors of the city plat, in 1789, dedicated the ground
between Front Street and the Ohio River to the public for
commercial and other purposes. The legal title had not then
emanated from the government of the United States. In this
state of things the Statute of Limitations does not run. White
long subsequently acquired the legal title and brought ejectment for the premises. This court said (p. 441) : "This is a
possessory action, and the plaintiff, to entitle himself to recover,
must have the right of possession; and whatever takes away
this right of possession will deprive him of the remedy by eject-

O0t. 1879.]

DICKERSON V. COLGROVE.

ment. Adams, Eject. 32; Starkie, part 4, 505-507." This is
the rule laid down by Lord Mansfield, in Atkyns v. Hoarde,
1 Burr. 119. "Ejectment," says he, "is a possessory remedy,
and only competent where the lessor of the plaintiff may enter,
and every plaintiff in ejectment must show a right of possession
as well as of property." If the plaintiff in the present case
was not entitled to possession, how, according to this authority,
could he recover? If he had recovered, and a court of equity
would have enjoined him from executing the judgment by a
wr;t of possession, we ask, again, how could he recover in this
action? Is not the concession that relief could be had in equity
fatal to the proposition we are considering? In Stoddard v.
(Jhambers (2 How. 284), it was said by this court: "On a title
by estoppel, an action of ejectment can be maintained." We
do not overlook the fact that a land-claim had been conveyed
before it was confirmed by an act of Congress to the assignor
and his legal representatives. It was held that on such confrnmation the legal title became vested in the former, "and inured, by way of estoppel, to his grantee and those who claimed
by deed under him." In that case, as in this, there was no
formal transfer of the title. The transfer was made, as under
a statute of limitations, when the bar is complete, by operation
of law. Leffligwell v. Warren, 2 Black, 599. Why may not a
like transfer be held to have been made in this case? The
reason given for the rule of inurement and estoppel by virtue
of conveyances is, that it avoids circuity of action. Does not
the same consideration apply, with equal force, in cases of estoppel hi pais? Why is it necessary to go into equity in one
case and not in the other?
It has never been held that the Statute of Frauds applies to
cases of inurement, and it has been conceded that it does not
affect cases of dedication. Where is the difference in principle
in this respect between those cases and the one before us? But
here this point cannot arise, because the promise relied upon was
in writing. In City of Cincinnati v. Lessee of White (supra),
this court, speaking of the dedication there in question, said,
"The law considers it in the nature of an estoppel in pais,
which precludes the original owner from revoking such dedication," and that a grant' might have been presumed, "if that

DICKERSON V. COLGROVE.

[Sup. ot.

had been necessary, and the fee might be considered in abeyance until a competent grantee appeared to receive it; which
was as early as the year 1802, when the city was incorporated."
Here there was a grantee capable of taking the fee all the time
from the date of the letter. The common law is reason dealing by the light of experience with human affairs. One of its
merits is that it has the -capacity to reach the ends of justice
by the shortest paths.
The.passage of a title by inurement and estoppel is its work
without the help of legislation. We think no sound reason can
be given why the same thing should not follow in cases of
estoppel in pais where land is concerned.
This subject has been carefully examined in Bigelow on
Estoppel, pp. 533, 537. The learned author comes to no final
conclusion whether in cases like this the defence may be made
at law, or whether a resort to equity is necessary. The former
is our view. Whether the title passed or not, the fact that the
plaintiff was not entitled to possession of the premises was fatal
to the action.
Chauncey conveyed to the plaintiff in error by deed of quitclaim. He is not, therefore, a bona fide purchaser. Piatt v.
Oliver, 3 How. 333; May v. Le Claire, 11 Wall. 217. Morton
and the defendants were in possession. For both these reasons,
he took whatever title he acquired subjeet to all the rights,
legal and equitable, of Morton and ol the defendants, who
deraigned their titles from the latter.
-Judgmentaffirmed.

