COX V. NATIONAL BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

special deposits of money, bullion, plate, &c., for safe-keeping,
and to be specifically returned to the depositor; and such was
the character of the business done by the Bank of Venice (the
earliest bank) and the old Bank of Amsterdam, and the same
business was done by the Goldsmiths of London and the Bank
of England, and we know of none of the earlier banks where it
was not done."
It would, undoubtedly, be competent for a national bank to
receive a special deposit of such securities as those here in
question, either on a contract of hiring or without reward, and
it would be liable for a greater or less degree of negligence
accordingly.
We do not mean that it could convert itself into a pawnbroker's shop. That subject involves topics alien to the case
before us, and which in this 'opinion it is unnecessary to consider.
Judgment affrmed.

Cox v. NATioNAL BANK.
C

RDY v. NATIoNAL BANx.

A bill of exchange drawn by A. to the order of B. on "lIessrs. C. & D., New
York, N. Y.," was accepted by them without qualification or condition. All
the parties then and at its maturity resided in Kentucky. The notary public,
after making on the day it matured diligent but unsuccessful inquiry in New
York City for C.& D., and for their place of residence or business, presented
it and demanded payment, during business hours, at the places frequented
by them when in that city. Payment not having been made, he protested
the bill, and on the next day, learning from those whom he believed to be
informed on the subject the residence of A. and B., transmitted to them there
by mail, post paid, notices of such protest. Held, 1. That the bill was in
law payable at that city. 2. That. the presentment and demand were sufficient. 3. That the requisite steps to bind A. and B. were taken.

ERR oR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Kentucky.
The first of these cases is an action by the National Bank
of the State of New York against Merritt Cox, the drawer,
J. C. Whitlock, the payee, and W. F. Cox and William Cowan,

Oct. 1879.]

Cox v.

NATIONAL BANK.

the two last doing business as partners under the firm name of
Cox & Cowan, the acceptors of the following bill: HOPUN SVILLE, Ky., Aug. 3, 1875.
"Eighty days after date pay to the order of J. C. Whitlock five
thousand dollars, value received, and charge to account., renewing
a bill for same amount and names, due Aug. 3, 1875.
"$5,000.

"MERRITT COX.

New York, N. Y."
"To MHessrs. Cox & Cow,%
Written across the face of the bill were the words, "Ac cepted: Cox & Cowan."
Whitlock indorsed said bill to E. M. Wright & Co., of New
York, -"ho in turn indorsed it to the bank.
The petition of the plaintiff alleges the presentation of the
bill in the city of New York for payment, the refusal thereof,
and protest and notice to the drawer and indorser.
Cox & Cowan made no defence.
Merritt Cox and Whitlock, however, answered, denying
notice of protest, the due and proper presentation of the bill,
or the demand of payment.
At the trial, the plaintiff, having read the bill and the protest
thereof to the jury, offered evidence tending to show that the
notary intrusted with said bill made reasonable and diligent
inquiry for the acceptors and their place of business in New
York City at the place or places frequented by them when
there, and could not, after such inquiry, find them or any place
of business of them or either of them; that he then demanded
payment on the day of maturity in business hours at the place
so frequented by them when in said city, and that payment of
said bill was then and there refused; that they caused inquiry
to be made by the said notary in New York on the twenty.
fifth or twenty-sixth day of October, 1875, of E. M. Wright,
a resident of New York City, and one of the firm of E. M.
Wright & Co., who indorsed said bill to the bank, as to the
post-office address respectively of said Merritt Cox and J. C.
Whitlock; that said notary was then informed by said Wright
that the post-office address of each of said defendants was
Hopkinsville, Ky. ; that said notary, on the twenty-sixth day
of October, 1875, mailed notices of said protest to each of said
vol- x.

45

Cox v.

NATIONAL BANK.

('Sup. Ct.

defendants at Hopkinsville, Ky. There was no evidence to
show that the bank, or any one for it, at any time made any
other inquiries for the post-office address of either or both of
said defendants.
Cox and Whitlock introduced evidence tending to show that
the bill was drawn by Merritt Cox, accepted by Cox &
Cowan, and indorsed by Whitlock,.all in Hopkinsville, Ky.;
and it was there delivered to G. V. Thompson, to whom the
bill, of which the one in suit was a renewal, had been sent by
E. M. Wright & Co., who had indorsed the same to the bank
as collateral security, and had received it after maturity. from
the bank (the holder) for the purpose of having it renewed;
that Thompson sent the bill in suit to said Wright & Co., who
immediately delivered it to the bank, and informed it that the
bill had been executed and accepted in Kentucky; that at the
time of the execution and acceptance of said bill, and at
the time of its matuiity, the acceptors thereof, W. F. Cox
and William Cowan, composing the firm of Cox & Cowan,
each resided in Hopkinsville, Christian County, Ky., and had
their place of business there, and not elsewhere; that the bank,
when it took said bill, and when it was executed and when it
matured, was informed and had knowledge that the residence
and place of business of Cox & Cowan were at Hopkinsville,
Ky., at all the times aforesaid; that there was no presentment
for payment of said bill or demand of payment of the same to
or upon said acceptors, or either of them, in person or at theii
residence or place of business in Kentucky on the day of its
maturity, or at any time; that there was no agreement to pa
said bill in New York except as shown upon its face; that thL
post-office address of both Merritt Cox and J. C. Whitlock was
then, and at all previous times for fifteen years had been, Newstead, Ky., and never at Hopkinsville, and that at all times
when the bill in suit or the previous one existed G. V.
Thompson, to whom the bill had been sent, resided in Hopkinsville, Ky., and well knew the post-office address of both
Cox & Whitlock to be Newstead, Ky., and not Hopkinsville,
that mail facilities between Hopkinsville and New York were
ample and daily, and that a letter reached one place from the
other in three days; that there was telegraphic communication

Oct. 1879.]

Cox v. NATIONAL BANK.

between the two places; that E. M. Wright & Co. were factors and commission merchants in New York, and in that
capacity did business for Cox & Cowan, and in the course
thereof the bill was received; that each of the firm of Cox &
Cowan during the course of said business, and up to June,
1875, on different occasions visited New York on business,
and while there wrote and received letters at the office of said
Wright & Co., and looked after business intrusted with said
factors, and did the like with other factors in their employment
in said city.
The plaintiff then introduced evidence tending to show that
the original bill was sent to G. V. Thompson by said E. M.
Wright & Co., who corresponded with said Thompson in their
own names, disclosing no sort of agency for the bank; that he
procured the renewal of said bill at their instance and by their
instruction, and sent it to them when obtained; that he had
no communication with the bank, and was never at any time
in any respect its agent, and did not inform it or Wright & Co.
of the post-office address of Merritt Cox or Whitlock, and was
not inquired of as to either, and afterward had no further coniiection with the bill.
The court instructed the jury that the bills of exchange
were in law payable in the city of New York, notwithstand
ig the plaintiffs may have known, before making acceptance
and indorsement thereof, that the acceptors, Cox & Cowan,
actually resided at Hopkinsville; that if the jury believed
that the notary made reasonable and diligent inquiry for the
acceptors at their place of business in New York, at the place
or places frequented by them in that city, and could not after
such inquiry find them or their place of business, then the
demand of payment during business hours on the day of the
maturity of the bill at the place so frequented by them in
the city of New York was sufficient; that if the bank'did not
niow the post-office address of the drawer, Merritt Cox, and
the indorser, J. C. Whitlock, and if the notary made inquiry
as to their several post-office addresses of Wright & Co., who
had assigned the bills to the plaintiff, and who were the correspondents of the acceptors, and in the judgment of the notary
were likely to be informed as to such post-office addresses, and

COX V. SIATIONAL BANE.

[Sup. ot

who professed to know them, anA was informed that their postoffice address was Hopkinsville, Ky.; and if the notary transmitted notices on the day after the protest by mail, postpaid.
to the drawer and indorsers at the post-office address so aseer
tained by the notary, such notice of protest was good to bind
the drawer and indorsers respectively.
The defendants excepted to these several instructions, and
also made several requests for instructions, each of which was'
refused.
There was a verdict and judgment for the plaintiff. The
defendants, Merritt Cox and Whitlock, then sued out this writ
of error.
In the second case the facts are in substance identical with
those in the first case, except that J. D. Clardy was the payee
and indorser of the bill.
31r. WTalter Evans for the plaintiffs in error.
The fact that the bill of exchange was addressed to Cox &
Cowan, New York, N. Y., does not render it at all events
payable there, and it was error for the court to so instruct the
jury. Rowe v. Young, 2 B. & B. 276; -enton, v. Goundry,
13 East, 468; Chitty, Bills, 151 ; Lighter v. Will, 2 Watts &
S. (Pa.) 140 ; Fisherv. Evans, 5 Binn. (Pa.) 541.
The acceptors never had a residence or place of business in
New York. On the contrary, they lived and did business in
Hopkinsville, Ky., where the bill was executed and delivered.
Their residence or place of business was not subsequently
changed. These facts were known to the bank when it took
the bill, and before its date, and when it matured. Hence, in
the exercise of the diligence necessary to bind the drawer and
indorser, it was absolutely essential that presentment for payment should have been made in Kentucky at the maturity of
the bills. Taylor v. Snyder, 3 Denio (N. Y.), 145; Spies v.
Gilmore, 1 N. Y. 821 ; Ban7k of Orleans v. Whitternore, 12 Gray
(Mass.), 469; 1 Parsons, Bills and Notes, 421-425, 441, 453;
In re Glyn, 15 Nat. Bank. Reg. 502, 503; Fisher v. Ecans,
supra ; Mtusson v. Lake, 4 How. 274 ; Whitesides v. .Northern
Bank, 10 Bush (Ky.), 502; Barnes v. Vaughan, 6 R. I. 259;
Story, Bills, last clause, sect. 325.
While a protest was unnecessary, demand of payment and

Oct. 1879.)

Cox

v. NATIONAL BANK.

notice were quite as essential as in case of a foreign bill.
Hager v. Boswell, 4 J. J. Marsh. (Ky.) 62.
The address of the drawee on a bill of exchange is nothing
more than an intimation of where he is, or of where he resides
or does business. It is perhapsprimafaciehis residence. Rowe
v. Yuung, supra; Fenton v. Goundry, 13 East, 468; Chitty,
Bills, 151 ; Lowry v. Scott, 24 Wend. (N. Y.) 358.
01r. William D7.Shipman and ilr. IF W. MJacfarland,contra.
The bills were addressed to the drawees at the city of New
York, and were accepted generally. They were therefore payable at that city.
No matter in what part of the world the acceptors may, in
fact, have dwelt, they, by accepting a bill addressed to them at
New York, elected to reside there for the purpose of its presentation and payment. Smith v. Little, 10 N. H. 526; 1 Am.
Lead. Cas. (5th ed.), p. 454; Story, Bills, sect. 353; Chitty,
Bills, 172-175, 322, 323, 397.
The duty of the holder is performed when he has made
diligent effort to find the acceptor at the place where he has
undertaken to pay the bill.
It follows that the charge on this point was right. Story,
Bills, sect. 351 and note; 3 Kent, Com. (12th ed.), p. 96 and
notes; 1 Parsons, Notes and Bills, p. 440 and note.
The charge of the court below upon the question of notice
to the drawer and the indorsers of the bills was clearly within
the rule laid down in Lazbert v. Ghiselin, 9 How. 256. See
also Hunt v. ilMaybee, 7 N. Y. 266; Story, Bills of Exchange,
sects. 299, 308, 351, 387; Carter v. Smith, 9 Cush. (Mass.)
321.
MR. JusTICE CLUrFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Bills of exchange are written orders or requests from one
party to another for the payment of money to a third person or
his order, on account of the drawer, and, if payable at sight
;or at a date subsequent to the acceptance by the drawee, the
instrument must be duly presented for payment, else the parties to the same conditionally liable for the payment of the
amount will be discharged. Different rules prevail as to the
place where the presentment for payment must be made,

Cox v.

NATIONAL BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

dependent upon the form of the instrument and the place
where and the terms in which it was accepted.
Such an instrument must first be accepted; and if when presented for that purpose the drawee refuses to accept the same,
it must, if it is a foreign bill, be protested for non-acceptance,
the rule being that the place of protest is the place where the
same is required to be presented for acceptance, unless it is in
terms payable at some other place. Due presentment for payment must also be made, the general rule being that the place
of payment is the place where the acceptor resides, or where
on the face of the bill it is addressed to him, unless some other
place is specifically designated in the instrument. Story, Bills,
sects. 48, 282.
Sufficient appears to show that the subject-matter of the
present controversy is a bill of exchange drawn by the defendant first named, the address to the drawees being "Messrs.
Cox & Cowan, New York, N. Y. T"for the sum of $5,000, payable eighty days from date, value received, and the indorsement on the face of the bill is as follows : "Accepted. Cox &
Cowan."
That the bill was duly presented for acceptance, and that it
was accepted by the drawees in the manner described, is ad
mitted; nor is it denied that it was duly indorsed by the
payee, nor that the plaintiff bank became the bona fide holder
of the bill by virtue of the second indorsement exhibited in
the record.
Payment of the bill at maturity being refused, the plaintiff
bank, as the lawful holder of the same, caused it to be protested,
and instituted the present action -against the drawer, the acceptors, and the payee as the first indorser, to recover the amount.
Process was served, and the drawer and indorser appeared and
filed separate answers.
Though the answers are separate, yet the material defences
in each are the same, and may be considered together. They
dre as follows: 1. That the bill was not daly presented to the
acceptors for payment. 2. That it was not duly protested for
non-payment. 8. That due notice was never given to the
drawer of the dishonor of the bill or of the failure of the
acceptors to pay the same at maturity.

Oct. 1879.]

Cox v.

NATIONAL BANK.

Amended answers having subsequently been filed .by the
same parties, they went to trial, and the verdict and judgment
were in favor of the plaintiff bank against the drawer, acceptors, and indorser for the amount specified in the transcript.
Exceptions were filed by the defendants, and they sued out the
present writ of error.
Since the cause was entered here, the defendants have assigned for error the following causes: 1. That the Circuit Court
erred in instructing the jury that the bill, being addressed to
the drawees, "New York, N. Y.," is in law payable in New
York City. 2. That the Circuit Court erred in refusing to instruct the jury that the acceptance of the bill, as shown in the
transcript, was a general acceptance, which made the bill payable at no particular place. 8. That the Circuit Court erred
in refusing to instruct the jury that, in order to charge the defendants, the officers of the plaintiff bank, if they knew at the
maturity of the bill where the residence and place of business
of the acceptors were, as stated in the answers, must show that
the bill was presented and that payment was demanded at
their residence or place of business. 4. That the Circuit
Court erred in instructing the jury that if the notary made
reasonable and diligent inquiry for the acceptors and their
place of business in the city of New York, and could not find
either their residence or place of business, and that he then
demanded payment during business hours at the place or places
frequented by them when in said city, that such a demand was
a sufficient presentment to maintain the action.
Evidence was introduced by the defendants tending to show
that throughout the transaction they were all residents of the
State of Kentucky, and that the bill in question was drawn
and indorsed in the State; that it was sent by one Thompson
to the firm of Wright & Co., who delivered the same to the
plaintiff bank or their officers, who were informed where the
bill was executed by the drawer and indorser. They al.,o introduced testimony showing that the officers of the bank, when
they took the bill, knew where the drawer resided when it
was forwarded, and afterwards when it was accepted by the
drawees. Explanatory evidence was also given by the plaintiff
bank showing that no sort of agency existed between the per-

Cox v.

NATIONAL BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

son by *whomthe bill was forwarded and the firm by whom it
was delivered and the plaintiff bank, and that the former never
had any communication with the bank, and never informed
either the bank or the said firm of the post-office address of any
one of the defendants.
Commercial rules everywhere require that to fix the liability
of the drawer of a bill of exchange or the indorser of a bill or
note there must be a legal presentment of the instrument to
the acceptor or maker, or payment must be demanded of such
a party on the day the instrument becomes payable. That
payment must be demanded from the inaker of a note and
notice of its non-payment forwarded to the indorser in due
time, in order to render him liable, is so firmly settled, says
Marshall, 0. J., that no authority need be cited to support the
proposition. Magruder v. Bank, 8 Pet. 87, 90; The Juniata
Bank v. Hale, 16 Serg. & R. (Pa.) 157.
Nobody doubts the correctness of that rule, and it is equally
well settled that when a note or bill is expressed to be payable
at a particular place, a demand there is always sufficient to
charge the indorser. Story, Bills (4th ed.), sect. 357 ; Cbitty,
Bills (13th Am. ed.), 407; Rowe v. Young, 2 Brod. & B. 165;
Picquet v. Curtis, 1 Sumn. 478.
Text-writers of undoubted authority state that an acceptance is an engagement to pay the bill according to the tenor
of the acceptance, and that a general acceptance is an engagement to pay according to the tenor of the bill. Bayley, Bills
(5th ed.), 154; Obitty, Bills (13th Am. ed.), 342.
Cases arise where the drawer of a bill of exchange designates in the instrument the place of payment, and the decisions are that in such a case both the drawer and the indorser
will be discharged unless the bill be there presented for payment
at maturity; but the same decisions hold otherwise as to the
maker of a note and the acceptor of a bill, the rule being that,
unless the restrictive words "only and not elsewhere" are
added, no presentment there at maturity or afterwards is
necessary to charge such a party. Poden 4&Slater v. Sharp,
4 Johns. (N. Y.) 183; Wolcott v. Van Santvoord, 17 id. 248.
Where no place of payment is expressed in a bill or note,
the general rule, in the absence of any agreement or circum-

Oct. 1879.]

Cox v.

NATIONAL BANK.

stances fixing or indicating a different intention, is that the
place of presentment is the place where the acceptor or maker
resides, or at their usual place of business. Circumstances,
however, may control the usual inference arising from the
want of any such expression in the instrument which may
warrant a very different conclusion.
Thus, if a bill were
drawn upon a merchant when abroad, and should be addressed
to him at Paris or at London, the place of payment would be
the place where the drawer accepted the instrument, whether
Paris or London, and not the place of his residence when the
bill was drawn or at its maturity. 1 Daniel, Negotiable Securities (2d ed.), sect. 90.
Provided no place is designated or agreed or indicated in the
form of the address or the terms of the acceptance, the rule
then is that the presentment for payment must be made at the
home or domicile of the acceptor or maker, or at their usual
place of business during business hours. Id., sect. 685.
Parol testimony to show such an agreement is admissible, it
being settled law that the introduction of such testimony is
not inconsistent with the rule that a written instrument cannot be varied by parol evidence. Brent's Exrs. v. TIe Bank
of the llfetropolis, I Pet. 89, 92.
Unlike the indorser, the maker of a promissory note is liable
without any demand of payment. His undertaking is unconditional, but the indorser only undertakes to pay if the maker
does not, which makes it necessary for the holder to take proper
steps to obtain payment from the maker, from which it.follows
that his contract is that due diligence shall be used to that end;
and-when the patties agree what shall constitute due diligence
in the particular case, says Marshall, 0. J., they do not alter
the written contract, but agree upon an extrinsic circumstance,
and substitute that agreement for an act which the law prescribes as such when they are silent.
Acceptors of a bill of exchange stand in the same relation to
the drawee of the bill as the maker of a note does to the payee,
the acceptor being the principal debtor in a bill precisely as the
maker is of a promissory npte, the rule being that the liability
of the acceptor is governed by the terms of his acceptance, just
as the liability of the maker of a note is defined and governed

Cox v. NATIONAL BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

by the terms of a note; nor can the place of payment be of any
more importance in the one case than in the other.
When a note or bill is made payable at a particular bank, as
is frequently the case, it is well known that, according to the
usual course of business, the note or bill is usually lodged in the
bank for collection; and if the maker or acceptor calls to take
it up when it falls due, and it is delivered to him, and he pays
the amount, the business is closed; but if be does not find the
note or bill at the bank, he can deposit the money to meet the
same when it shall be presented, and the proof of such tender
and deposit, in case of a subsequent suit, will exonerate him
from all costs and damages. Or should the note or bill be made
payable at some other place than a bank, and no deposit should
be made, or he should choose to- retain the money in his own
possession, an offer to pay at the time and place would protect him against interest and costs on bringing the money into
court.
Rules of a different character have sometimes prevailed in
other jurisdictions, but the principles to be applied in such a
case are settled in this court, nor is it necessary, where the note
or bill is payable at a specified time and place, to aver in the
declaration or prove at the trial that a demand was made at
that place in order to maintain the action, the established rule
being that if the maker or acceptor was at the place at the
time designated, and was ready and offered to pay the money,
it is matter of defence to be pleaded and proved. "Wallace v.
Mconnell, 13 Pet. 186, 150; 1 Daniel, Negotiable Securities
(2d ed.), sect. 643; Edwards, Bills (2d ed.), 150; Rowe v.
Young, 2 Bli. 391, 395.
Beyond doubt, these principles are applicable, as determined
by this court, where the suit is against the maker of the note or
the acceptor of the bill; but when recourse is had to the indorser of the note or the drawer of the bill, very different considerations arise, as they are not the principal debtors to the
holder of the instrument. Their undertaking is not absolute,
like that of the maker of the note or the acceptor of the bill,
but conditional, that if the maker in the one case or the ao
ceptor in the other refuses to make good the undertaking they
will pay the amount. Hence, the holder is bound to use due

Oct. 1879.]

Cox v.

NATIONAL BANK.

diligence to obtain payment from the maker or acceptor, as a
condition precedent to his -right to recover of the parties only
conditionally liable. Consequently, when a place of payment is
designated in the body of the note or bill, the drawer or indorser
has a right to presume that the maker or acceptor has provided
funds at such place to pay the note or bill, and to require
the holder to apply for payment at such place, unless when the
place designated is a bank, and the bank is the holder of the
instrument, when the rule does not apply. In all other cases
the obligation is absolute, that the holder must aver and prove
a presentment at the designated place, unless the necessity is
obviated by agreement, or something appearing in the instrument to indicate a different intention. Bank of the United
,States v. Smith, 11 Wheat. 171, 175.
Suppose that is so, then there never need be any difficulty in
determining the rights of the parties in such a case, where the
place of payment is specifically designated in the bill, or where
the terms of the instrument contain no such designation whatever, as the rule of procedure in each case, though different, is
equally plain and unmistakable. Nor do the parties here differ
in respect to those rules, but the plaintiff bonk contends that
the bill in question brings the case within the category of the
first case, but the defendants insist that it falls within the
second, where no place of payment is designated.
Looking at the terms of the bill, independent of the address
to the drawees and the acceptance written across the face of
the bill, it would seem that the theory of the defendants is
correct; but the bill is addressed to "Messrs. Cox & Cowan,
New York, N. Y.," as drawees, and is by them accepted without explanation or condition, from which it follows as a reasonable inference that they accepted the bill as if they were atthe time in the city of New York, and having so accepted it
without explanation or condition, the legal construction of the
instrument is that it became payable when it fell due at the
place designated by the address as the place where the acceptance took place. Halstead v. Skelton, 5 Q. B. 86; 1 & 2 Geo.
IV. c. 78; 38 Biitish Stats. 291.
Bills of exchange, like oth'r written instruments, are subject
to legal construction in order to ascertain the intent and mean-

Cox

v. NATIONAL BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

ing of the parties, unless the language employed to express
such intent and meaning is clear and unambiguous.
Enough has already been remarked to show that when a bill
or note is expressed to be payable at a particular place on
demand, it is always sufficient to prove that it was presented
there to charge the acceptor or the indorser. .Evans v. St.
John, 9 Port. (Ala.) 186, 193; McClane v. Fitch, 4 B. Mon.
(Ky.) 599. Where a bill is drawn on a firm, as W. M. &
Co., at a particular number and street, as at 263 Washington
Street, New York, the presentment should be made at their
place of business, as presumable from such address, or at the
residence of either of the firm. Otsego County Bank v. Warren, 18 Barb. (N. Y.) 291, 293.
If the instrument is payable in a particular town, and the
residence of the maker or acceptor is elsewhere, the holder is
not bound to make -demand anywhere except in that town.
Smith v. Little, 10 N. H. 526, 580; 1 Am. Lead. Cas. (5th
ed.) 454.
Views equally explicit are expressed by Judge Story,- who
says that if the bill is drawn upon the drawee domiciled in
one place and is payable in another place, and is accepted by
him, meaning without qualification, the presentment should

be made at the latter place. Thus, if a bill is drawn on the
drawees at Liverpool, payable in London, and is accepted,
without explanation, the presentment for payment must be
in London, if any particular place is there pointed out where
demand may be made, and if none, and no one can be found
to pay the bill, it may be protested there for non-payment for
that very cause. Story, Bills (4th ed.), sect. 353; Boot v.
Franklin, 3 Johns. (N. Y.) 208; 2 & 3 Win. IV., 50 British
Stats., c. 98, p. 587; Chitty, Bills (13th Am. ed.), 390.
So where a bill is directed to -the drawee at a particular
house, and is by him accepted without condition, the going
to that house with the bill on the day of payment and finding
it closed is a sufficient presentment. Bayley, Bills (5th ed.),
200; Rine v. Allely, 1 Nev. & M. 433; Chitty, Bills (13th
Am. ed.), 330.
American authorities almost universally hold that in such
a case no presentment is necessary to charge the acceptor of

Oct. 1879.]

Cox v.

NATIONAL BANK.

the bill or the maker of the note,- the only effect of the neglect as to such a party being that it relieves him from cost and
damages if he was ready at the time and place named to pay
the amount and there was no one to receive it. Such readiness
is equivalent to a tender, and an answer pleading that fact and
payment of the money into court will be a bar to the recovery
of interest and cost. M1ts v. Place, 48 N. Y. 520; Caldwell
v. Cassidy, 8 Cow. (N. Y.) 271.
Want of due diligence cannot be successfully set up in this
case, as the protest was given in evidence, and shows to a
demonstration that every thing the law requires was done to
find the acceptors or their place of business without success,
and that the protest was finally made at the only place in the
city of New York where they were accustomed t6 transact any
business.
Diligence is doubtless required of the holder to ascertain
the proper place to present the bill for payment; but it is not
necessary to give that issue much consideration in this case,
as it is not controverted that every needful effort in that regard
was made, if the true theory of the bill is that it was payable
in the city of New York, which is asserted by the plaintiff
bank and denied by the defendants.
Nothing need be added to what has already been remarked
to explain the views of the court upon that subjeet, ivhich are,
that the bill having been addressed to the drawees at the^ city
of New York, and they having accepted the same without
qualification, explanation, or condition, the bill became payable in that city, even though no mention was made of any
dwelling, store, or place of business where the bill shodld be.
presented. Freese v. Brownell, 35 N. J. L. ,285; 1 Bell, Com.
(5th ed.) 412.
Nor is it necessary to repeat the views heretofore expressed,
that the acceptor of the bill, like' the maker of a note, is the
promissory debtor in such a case, and that in respect to such a
party to a bill no presentment or demand of payment need be
made at the specified place in order to render him liable to an
action on the instrument. Story, Notes (7th ed.), sect. 228;
1 Parsons, Bills and Notes, 425-429; Thompson, Bills (2d
ed.), 294.

718

Cox v.

NATIONAL BANK.

[Sup. CL.

Our decisions are decisive to that effect, and it is equally
clear in this case that every step necessary to bind the drawer
and the indorser was also taken by the holder of the bill
described in the declaration. Story, Notes (7th ed.), 236;
Carter v. Smith, 9 Cush. (Mass.) 821.
Presentment at the specified place as against the acceptor
of a bill is not necessary, the rule being that, if he was ready
at the time and place to pay, lie may prove that as a defence;
but the rule is otherwise as against the drawer and indorsers.
8 Kent, Com. (12th ed.) 100, 104.
Five other assignments of error are set forth in the brief of
the defendants; but it is unnecessary to pursue the discussion,
as the remarks already made are sufficient to show that there
is 'no error in the record, and that the judgment should be
affirmed.
Exactly the same questions are also involved in the second
of the above-entitled cases. Both were argued and submitted
it the same time, and must be decided in the same way. In
each case

Judgment affirmed.

