BROWNSVILLE V. CAVAZOS.

[Sup. t

State statute in respect to the sale of goods unaccompanied by
a change of possession. Objection is also made that the lease
of the premises designated as the place of delivery was not
recorded, which is so obviously without merit that it requires
no consideration.
Viewed in the light of these suggestions, it is obvious that
the first five assignments of error must be overruled.
Exception was also taken to the ruling of the court below in
excluding certain testimony offered by the defendant to show
that the staves were not cut and made at the time some of the
certificates were given to secure the advance, and to show that
the staves included in the small pile were never in fact counted,
and that no certificate specially applicable to them was ever
given. Responsive to the objection of the defendant, the court
below remarked, that, -if the staves were subsequently piled
there to the satisfaction of the plaintiffs, the title passed, it
appearing that the certificates were given and the advance
paid, which is all that need be said upon the subject, as it is
plain that the ruling is without just exception.
Judgment affirmed.

BRowNviLLE v. CAVAZOS.
1. By the laws of Mexico in force in 1826, a pueblo or town, when recognized
as such by public authority, became entitled to certain lands, which to the
extent of four square leagues, embracing its site and the adjoining territory,
were to be measured and assigned to it.
2. By the Constitution of Tamaulipas, one of the States of Mexico, in force in
1826, the land of an individual could not be expropriated - that is, divested
of its private character-for an object of common recognized utility, without previous compensation, the amount of which could be estimated only
by arbiters appointedby him and the State. If such compensation was not
made, though the failure to make it was caused by his refusal to appoint
an arbiter, his title was not divested, and he and his grantees could recover
the land after the jurisdiction over the country had been transferred by the
treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo.
3. By the law of Texas, a judgment against a plaintiff in an action for the possession of lands is conclusive, unless he commence a second action within
a year. Held, that, in an action for the same lands commenced within the
year by the former defendant against the grantees of the former plaintiff,

Oct. 1879.]

BROWNSVILLE V. OAVAZOS.

the latter are not precluded by that judgment from setting up their claim
to them.
4. Where, up to the commencement of the action, a mixed possession of the lana,
and a continued litigation respecting it, existed, and there was no actual
occupation of a large portion of it,- Held, that no prescription could be
maintained by either party, and that the case must be determined on the
documentary evidence of title.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Texas.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
lIr. Thomas . Durantfor the plaintiff in error.
111r. Jamnes B. Cox for the defendant in error.
MP. . JUSTICE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action for the possession of certain real property
in Brownsville, a city of Texas, situated on the left bank of
the Rio Grande, opposite the town of Matamoras. Previous
to the revolution which separated Texas from the Republic of
Mexico, Brownsville constituted a portion of Matamoras, which
was recognized as a town in 1826 by a decree of the congress
of Tamaulipas, one of the States of Mexico. By the laws of
Mexico in force at the time, pueblos or towns, when recognized
as such by public authority, became entitled for their use and
benefit, and the use and benefit of their inhabitants, to certain
lands embracing the site of such pueblos or towns and adjoining territory, to the extent of four square leagues. This right
was held by the cities and towns of Spain for a long period
before her conquests in America, and was recognized in her
laws and ordinances for the government of her colonies here.
Laws of the Indies, in White's Recop., vol. ii. 44; Townsend
v. Greeley, 5 Wall. 326; Grisar v. 3cDowell, 6 id. 363; The
Pueblo Case, 4 Sawyer, 563. By them provision was made for
the measurement of the lands, and their assignment to the
pueblos or towns, when once they were officially recognized.
If any portion of the lands which fell within the four square
leagues, laid off in the usual way in a square or oblong form,
had previously become vested in private proprietorship, authority was sometimes given to take the necessary proceedings
to divest the property of its private character - to expropriate
it, as it was termed - and subject it to the uses of the town.

BROWNSVILLE V. OAVAZOS.

(Sup. Ct.

Such was the case here. The four square leagues measured
off and assigned to Matamoras crossed the Rio Grande and
embraced the site of the present city of Brownsville, which was
then the private property of one Dona Maria Francisca Cavazos.
The premises were a part of a tract called the Espiritu Santo
tract, granted by the Spanish government, in 1781, to one De
la Garza. The grant was recognized as valid by the legislature of Texas in 1852, when it relinquished to the heirs and
assignees of the grantee all the right and interest of the State
therein. For the expropriation of the premises thus embraced
within the limits of the land assigned to the municipality proceedings were taken soon after the town was established, in
1826. For some years immediately preceding their institution,
Madam Cavazos was seised of the Espiritu Santo tract by
regular deraignment of title from the grantee; and so continued until her death in 1835, unless she was divested of that
portion assigned to the town by the proceedings for its expropriation. She devised the tract to three parties, one of whom
is the defendant, Dona Josefa Cavazos, who, on partition with
the others, became seised of that part which includes the premises in controversy, portions of which she conveyed to persons
from whom the other defendants derive their title to the parcels
which they severally claim.
The principal inquiry, therefore, presented for our consideration relates to the validity of the proceedings taken for the
expropriation of the premises assigned to Matamoras as comeidos, as they are termed in the Spanish lanmon lands -or
the
left bank of the Rio Grande. And on this
guage -on
point we can add nothing to the clear and satisfactory exposition of the law contained in the opinion of the presiding justice at the circuit. We can do little more than repeat his
argument and adopt hi conclusions. The City of Brownsville
v. Cavazos, 2 Woods, 293.
After the separation of Mexico from the mother-country, the
several States composing the republic formed new constitutions of government, retaining the old Spanish laws so far as
they were applicable to their new condition. The State of
Tamaulipas, which embraced territory on both side, of the Rio
Grande, in 1825 adopted a constitution containing an article

Oct. 1879.]

BROWNSVILLE V. CAVAZOS.

which declared that "neither the Congress nor any other
authority shall be able to take the property, even that of the
least importance, of any private individual. When it shall
become necessary for an object of a common recognized utility
to take the property of any person, he shall first be compensated upon the examination of arbiters appointed by the government of the State and the interested party."
Under this article, in order to divest the title of Madam
Cavazos to the property taken, it became necessary to make
to her compensation; and its amount could only be determined
by arbiters, of whom one was to be chosen by her. But she
declined to appoint an arbiter, or to participate in the proceedings. She desired to retain the farm occupied by her, from
which she drew her support, and specially wished that it should
be reserved from the ejidos or common lands. Various efforts
were made for more than a year to induce her to act in the
matter, but she persistently refused. Finally, in October, 1827,
the Congress of the State interfered, and by its decree declared
that the government, in the exercise of its powers, would see
that the civil authorities of Matamoras compelled her to obey
the Constitution and laws ;.that if, on being notified a second
and third time, she should refuse to appoint an arbiter for the
appraisement of her lands, which were to be taken for the town,
the common council should proceed to their occupation and
survey without further citation to her; and that should she or
her heirs afterwards ask for indemnification, and be willing to
name an arbiter, a new measurement should be made if desired,
and the land she asked should be given to her.
It is upon this decree that the plaintiff, The City of Brownsville, relies to sustain its case, contending that the decree was
an adjudication in ren? for the expropriation of the property
without compensation to Madam Cavazos, if she persisted in
her refusal to name an arbiter, reserving, however, to her the
right to claim compensation at a subsequent period upon complying with the law. On the other hand, the defendants insist
that the decree merely authorized the use of the lands without
expropriation until indemnification to her should be provided,
as proposed by the government.
The presiding justice at the circuit was of opinion that the

BROWNSVILLE V. CAVAZOS.

[Sup. Ct.

court was not at liberty to question the validity of this decree,
but must regard it as an act of the supreme authority of the
State, in its dealings with its citizens, and that the inquiry of
the court was, therefore, limited to its meaning and effect. This
doctrine may, perhaps, be subject to some qualification, as the
Congress of Tamaulipas was restrained by a written constitution. But assuming that even a partial expropriation - a temporary possession of private property without compensation, in
the case of an obstinate owner refusing to appoint an appraiser
of its value -was permissible, we are of opinion that the position of the defendants is the only tenable one, and for several
reasons.
In the first place, absolute expropriation was forbidden by
the Constitution of Tamaulipas, without previous compensation.
Until that was made, private ownership of the property was not
divested. The State could have resorted to coercive measures
to compel the owner to appoint an arbiter to act with its own
appointee in estimating the amount to be paid. The decree
states that the government would use its powers for that purpose, but it does not appear that any such measures were
adopted. Its efforts did not go beyond a solicitation to her to
act in the matter, and a summons in 1834 to all omners of
lands within the ejidos to attend at the capital, "so that hearing the attorney-general of finance the indemnification to all
might be agreed upon." Madam Cavazos declined to attend
upon this summons, giving her old age as an excuse, but stating
that she would receive her indemnification in money, and submit to whatever the government might order. It does not
appear what action was then taken by the government. There
is no evidence that any money was ever paid to her for the
property, or that any mode was ever devised for appraising its
value, other than that prescribed by the Constitution.
In the second place, the action of the Congress of Tamaulipas in 1848 upon this subject is persuasive, if not conclusive,
evidence of the intent and meaning of the decree.
By the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, ratified on the 80th of
May, 1848, the Rio Grande was acknowledged to be the boundary between Mexico and the United States, when, of course,
the jurisdiction of Tamaulipas over the premises in controversy

Oct. 1879.]

BROWNSVILLE V. OAVAZOS.

ceased. But rights of private property previously existing in
the territory east of the Rio Grande were in no respect affected.
If they had arisen before the independence of Texas, their
validity was to be determined by the laws of Mexico or Tamaulipas then in force. The authorities of Matamoras, claiming the ejidos under the decree in question, and believing that
after the treaty it would be difficult to enforce contracts with
respect to the lands east of the Rio Gramde, proposed to sell
those now in controversy to various parties from the United
States. Thereupon one John Treanor, representing the Cavazos
family, and particularly Dona Josefa, one of the defendants in
this suit, applied to the congress of Tamaulipas for protection,
-in
effect asking that the municipality be restrained from
making the contemplated sale, on the ground that it possessed
no just claim to the property, and that such action would be
of serious injury to the owners. To this application the common council of Matamoras replied by setting up the claim of
the city. The matter was then presented to the congress, and
referred to a committee, who gave to the subject extended
consideration, and finally made an elaborate report to the effect
that compensation had never been made to the owners of the
property; that such compensation was an indispensable Tequisite to its expropriation; and as such expropriation could not
now be made in consequence of the change of government over
the country, they were entitled to receive back their lands, and
ware hot confined to compensation; and that the alienation of
the lands by the city under these circumstances would not be
subjecting them to a public use, but disposing of them for
purposes of speculation; adding, that the right of expropriation had another and more noble origin, its object being not
to increase the public revenues, but to provide for the wellbeing of the community. The committee further suggested
that the alienation might produce complications with the government of the United States, as the latter would probably
contend that, if the lands belonged to the municipality, they
must be considered as public property. The congress therefore passed a resolution 'to the effect that as article thirteen
of the ancient Constitution of the State and article seventy-one
of the then existing Constitution prescribed that in no case

BROWNSVILLE V. OAVAZOS.

[-Sup. OL

could an expropriation be established without previous compensation, and as this had not been made for the e]idos situated on the left bank of the Rio Grande, the corporation
of
-

'latamoras" had not acquired any property in them, and that
in consequence they were preserved to their ancient owners.
This resolution behrs date the 20th of October, 1848. As between the city of Matamoras and the applicants it is conclusive;
the congress had jurisdiction of these parties; neither questioned its power, and both accepted its judgment as a finality.
Although this resolution may not bind the State of Texas,
or previous purchasers or alienees of Matamoras, it is entitled
to the highest consideration and respect as a decision touching
the law of Tamaulipas, and as an interpretation given to its
Constitution upon the expropriation of private property, and
to its own previous legislation. It accords with the obvious
and natural meaning of the decree of 1827, which only proposed
to allow the city to occupy the lands in advance of compensation, and it is supported by all the attendant and subsequent
circumstances of the transaction. We therefore adopt it as at
once a just~and reasonable disposition of the matter.
This conclusion renders it unnecessary to inquire as to the
possible interpretation which the language of the charter of
Brownsville might receive, or what rights that city might have
had, if Matamoras had held property on the east bank of the
Rio Grande which, upon the independence of Texas, passed
either to her successor or to the State.
It remains only to consider the pleas of resjudieataand prescription interposed by the plaintiff in bar of the title set up
by the defendants.
It appears that certain parties by the name of Basse and
Ford, under whom some of the defendants trace their title,
-brought suit for the property now claimed against the city of
Brownsville, which resulted in a judgment of dismissal in June,
1872; and a new suit'under the law of Texas was not brought
by them within one year afterwards. By that law a judgment
against a plaintiff in an action for the possession of real property - or an action of trespass to try the title, as it is termed
in the law -is conclusive unless he commence a second action
for the property within a year. But the answer to the objec-

Oct. 1879.]

MOORE V. SIMONDS.

tion that the judgment here is conclusive against the defendants is, that before the year elapsed, and indeed within ten
days after the dismissal, the city commenced the present suit
for the same property, in which all their rights were again
brought into litigation. The law which gives to the dissatisfied party a right within one year to re-litigate a second time
a controversy respecting land in Texas, does not bar him or
his grantees from setting up his or their claim, if within the
required period a similar suit respecting the same land is commenced against him or them by the former defendant. The
object of allowing a second litigation of the same title, and of
requiring such litigation to be speedily instituted, is equally
accomplished.
As to the plea of prescription, we agree with the court below
that, under the circumstances, the mixed possession of the parties, their continued contest and litigation from 1854 to the
present time, and the absence of actual' possession by either
of a large portion of the property, no prescription can be
claimed, and that the case must be determined on the documentary evidence of title.
We are satisfied with the conclusions reached by the Circuit
Court, and its judgment is in all respects
Affirmed.

MOORE V. SDONDS.
1. Where the record shows who are the members of a partnership, in the name
of which an appeal has been taken, - Held, that the defect may, under sect.
1005, Rev. Stat., be cured by an amendment substituting their names.
2. A mortgage of a vessel of the United States is not, as against the parties, and
SUCh persons as have actual notice thereof, rendered invalid by the failure
to record it.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana.
Motion to dismiss the appeal and to affirm the decree below.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
31r. Riczhard De Gray in support of the motion.
31r. Charle8 B. Singleton, contra.
ToL

10

