REPORTS OF THE DECISIONS
Or TH

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
JOCTOBER TERM, '1879.

Ex PAFE FRENCH.
In ejectment, where A., B., and the other defendants were respectively in the
separate possession of specific parcels of the land, judgment was rendered
against them for the recovery thereof and costs of suit, and also against
each for damages for withholding the parcel whereof he was in possession,
which exceed in the aggregate S6,000. A writ of error was sued out by all
the defendants. A. and B., to render it a supersedeas of th6 judgment against
thcm, severally gave a bond, which was duly approved and accepted. The
court below thereupon ordered that the proceedings on the judgment as to
A. and B. be stayed, and that a writ of restitution and execution be issued
against the remaining defendants. Held, that a mandamus directing that the
judgment be carried into execution against all the defendants would not lie.

PETnmION for a mandamus against the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of California.
Upon the showing made by French in his petition, it appears
that he brought a suit in ejectment in the court below against
Lincoln, O'Ness, Onesti, DeSilva, and others, to recover the possession of a large tract of land. On the trial the court found,
among other things, that Lincoln was in the separate possession of a specific portion of the tract, and that O'Ness, Onesti;
and DeSilva were in the possession of another portion. Judgment was rendered, Oct. 7, 1878, in favor of French against all
the defendants jointly for the recovery of the entire tract and
the costs of suit, amounting to $959.25; and against Lincoln
vTOL.x.

1

Ex PARTE FizENc.[

[Sup.. 0t.

separately for $330, damages for withholding possession; and
against O'Ness, Onesti, and DeSilva for $225, for like cause.
Other separate judgments for damages were rendered against
the other defendants, the aggregate of all the money judgments
being $6,091.
On the 28th of October a writ of error- from this court was
sued out in the name of all the defendants, and the Circuit
Court on the same day made the following order "And now, on motion of the defendants' attorneys, it is
ordered that the amount of the bond to stay the execution of
the judiment in this case, as -to the possession of the land
found by the findings filed herein to be in the separate possession of the defendant Lincoln, and also as to the judgment
against him for damages and costs, be and the same is hereby
fixed at $3,000. And it is further ordered tlfat the amount of
the bond to stay the execution of the judgment as to the land
found by the findings filed herein to be in the separate possession of the defendants O'Ness, Onesti, and DeSilva, and also
to stay the execution of the judgment against them for costs
and damages, be and the same is hereby fixed at $3,000."
On the following day separate bonds were filed by the defendants named in this order for the designated amounts, and
conditioned as required by law for the stay of execution, which
were approved and accepted in due form by the circuit judge,
and on the 31st of October the following order was made by
the Circuit Court:"A writ of error having been sued out and perfected by the
defendants in said action, and defendant L. M. Lincoln having
given the proper bond to operate as a supersedeas as to the
judgment against him, and the defendants Onesti, O'Ness, and
DeSilva having given a similar bond as to the judgment
against them: ordered, that proceedings be stayed as to the
moneys recovered against said Lincoln, and as to the sixty
a6res of land found by th court to be in his possession, as
described in the findings in said cause; and also that the proceedings be stayed as to the judgment for damages and costs
against said O'Ness, Onesti, and DeSilva, and as to the land
found to be in their possession, as described in the findings of
the court in this cause; and that a writ of restitution and

Oct. 1879.]

OEX PARTE FRENCH.

execution issue as to the remaining defendants, and the remainder of the land recovered in the action."
Afterwards, French applied to the clerk of the Circuit Court
to issue execution against all the defendants, as wl those
who had filed supersedeas bonds as the others; and this being
refused, he moved the court to vacate its order of October 31,
and direct the complete execution of the judgment. This also
being refused, he now prays ".that a writ of mandamus issue
from this court to the Circuit Court. . . . directing said Circuit Court to proceed and completely execute its said judgment,
not-withstanding said writ of error and said orders of said
Circuit Court."
.J1}. John Rey1nolds for the petitioner.
Rule 29 of this court, following the requirements of sect. 10.00
of the Revised Statutes, provides that in real actions the bond
must be for an amount sufficient to secure the sum recovered,
and "just damages for delay," and costs and interest.
In Stafford v. Union, Banko of Louisiana (17 How. 275), this
court held that, when the bond was not equal to the whole
amount recovered; the writ did not operate as a supersedeas,
and that a writ of maandamus would be awarded directing the
Circuit Court to execute the judgment.
It is no answer to say that the judgment in question is in
effect a separate one against each defendant, for the. land in
his possession, and for damages for biswithholding the same;
for it is the writ of error which operates as a suversedeas, and
coextensive with its operation must be the stay.
If the judgment be such that each defendant is, indepen
dently of the others, entitled to a stay, each must sue out his
separate writ. The defendants, against whom several judgments
have been entered, cannot join in the writ for the purpose of
conferring jurisdiction on this court, and then sever for any
other purpose. All of them may be required to join in order
to make the jurisdictional amount; and the writ cannot be
upheld by the joinder, and operate severally.
Ir. Walter . Smith, contra.
In California each defendant in ejectment may answer severally, and each demand findings and a judgment upon his
possession of a separate parcel of the demanded premises.

EX PARTE FRENCH.

[Sup. Ct.

Winans v. Ohrsty, 4 Cal. 70 ; Anderson v. Parker, 6 id. 200 ;
Curtis v. Sutter, 15 id. 264; Ellis v. Janes, 26 id. 276 ; Luse
v. Clark, 28 id. 35. It is clear, therefore, that the defendant
against whom a separate judgment has been entered may stay
proceedings without giving a bond rendering him responsible
for the judgments against his co-defendants.
The amount of the bond and the sufficiency of the surety
are matters of discretion in the judge below. An error committed in that regard is not ground for a mandamus. Rev.
Stat., sect. 1000; Jerome v. Jib Carter, 21 Wall. 17. And a
writ directing the execution of the judgment below will be
refused, unless the record shows that on his part there has been
mistake, misconduct, or omission of duty. United States v.
Trigg, 11 Pet. 173. Stafford v. Union Bank of Louisiana, cited
by counsel for the relator, is not applicable to this case.
MR. JUSTICE WAITE stated the case and delivered the
opinion of the court.
The argument in support of this petition is, that as when
the judgment or decree is for the recovery of money not otherwise secured, the rule of this court (Rule 29) requires the
bond for stay of execution to be for the whole amount of the
judgment or decree; and as in this case the writ of error was
sued out by all the defendants, and the aggregate of all the
money judgments against them severally is more than $6,000,
the bonds that have been executed are insufficient, and therefore no stay of execution has been lawfully perfected. The
object of the rule, which was made to put into form the practice that had prevailed before its promulgation, is to secure the
eventual payment or performance of the judgment or decree, the
execution of which is stayed by the supersedeas,in case the appeal
or writ of error is not prosecuted to effect. Here, although the
writ of error has been sued out to obtain the reversal of tho
entire judgment, a stay of execution is sought only as to certain specified parts. The judgment is severable as between
the defendants, and has actually been severed by the court
below for the purposes of the stay of execution. We see no
impropriety in this, as in legal effect the judgment as it stands
is against each of the several defendants for the lands they

Oct. 1879.]

EX PARTE FRENCH.

respectively occupy, and the damages they are respectively
liable to pay. In this view of the case the bonds are sufficient
in amount and form. So far as the money parts of the judgment are concerned, they are far in excess in each instance of
the amount recovered against the several defendants who seek
the stay; and as to the damages on account of the detention
of the property, we decided in Jerome v. itLe Carter(21 Wall. 17)
that the amount of the bond rested in the discretion of the
judge or justice who signed the citation or allowed the supersedeas, and would not be reconsidered here.
It is said, however, that if the judgment is separate, so that
each defendant is entitled to a stay independently of the
others, each must sue out his separate writ of error. To this
-we do not agree. The writ and tfie supersedeas are two separate things, and the writ can be sustained without a supersedeas.
All the defendants want the judgment -reviewed, but a part
only desire to have the execution against them stayed; and
we see no reason why they may not all join in the writ, and
separate when they ask for a stay. There is certainly no
settled practice against it, and very strong reasons can be
found in its favor. The whole question is one of practice and
not of statutory law. "Good and sufficient security that the
plaintiff in erior or the appellant . . .shall answer all damages and costs," "if he fail to make his plea good,' is all the
statute (Rev. Stat. sect., 1000) requires; and the rules of practice are satisfied if the indemnity is commensurate with the
damages that may follow from the stay which is effected. But
if the writ is informal, the remedy is by motion to vacate the
writ, and not by mandamus to have the judgment carried into
execution.
Petition denied.

