Oct. 1879.]

RAILROAD CO. v. COLLECTOR.

RAILROAD COMPANY V. COLLECTOR.
1. The tax on interest paid by corporations under sect. 122 of the internhl-rev.
enue law, as amended by the act of July 13,1860 (14 Stat. 138), is an excise
tax on their business, to be paid by them out of their earnings, income, and
profits.
2. In ordei' that its payment might be secured, this tax was laid on the subjects
to which these earnings were applied in the usual course of business of such
corporations; namely, dividends, interest on funded debt, construction, or
some reserve fund held by the company.
8. Such di tax is not invalidated by the provision that the amount of it may be
withheld from the dividend or the interest due or payable to the stockholderor the bondholder, who is a citizen or a subject of a foreign government,
with no residence in this country.

ER nor to the Circuit Court of the United States for the.
District of Massachusetts.
This is a suit by the Michigan Central Railroad Compan'y
against Charles W. Slack, collector of internal revenue for the
third collection district of Massachusetts, to recover a tax or
duty of $860.33, paid to him, under protest, on th6 twentyeighth day of February, 1870; which ,tax was'assessed on or
about the 19th of that month on sterling bond interest paid
by said company in London in gold, in the previous month of
January, by cashing certain boupons which then fell due.
The coupons were attached to qertain sterling bonds issued
by said company, to the amount of £95,700, and negotiated by
their agents in London in 1852, or early in 1853. The bonds
were due in July, 1872, and paid at maturity, in gold, in
London.
So far as the company know, not one of them was ever held
by any person in the United States, or by other than non-resident aliens, and the interest accruing was regularly paid in gold
in full in London, without rebate or reservation of the United
States internal-revenue tax.
Appeal was duly made to the Commissioner of Internal
Revenue before this suit was brought.
The court below found for the defendant, whereupon the
company brought the case here, and assigns for error that the
court below erred in finding that Congess had power to impose

RAILROAD CO. V. COLLECTOR.

'[Sup.

at.

the tax in controversy, and that, upon the facts, judgment must
be for the defendant.
Mr. Francis 17. Pafrey for the plaintiff in error.
It is a conceded proposition that the United States has not
the power to tax non-resident aliens directly. As persons, they
are not liable to our taxation. But it is alleged that their
property was within our jurisdiction, and therefore taxable.
The reply to this proposition is: 1. That it is settled law in this court that the internalrevenue taxation on coupon interest is a tax on income, and so
a tax on persons.
2. That the money set apart by the railroad company to
pay the coupon interest due to its non-resident alien bondholders
was not taxable property within the jurisdiction of the United
States.
In support of the first proposition, it can hardly be necessary
to do more than to cite Haight v. Railroad Company, 6 Wall.
15; Railroad Company v. Jackson, 7 id. 262, 269; Barnes v.
The Railroads,17 id. 294; United States v. Railroad Company,
id. 322; Stockdale v. Insurance Companies, 20 id. 323, 330, 837';
Railroad Company v. Rose, 95 U. S. 78.
And in support of the second : State Tax on Foreign-held
Bonds, 15 Wall. 300, 324, 325; Murray v. Charleston,96 U. S.
432; Caruthers v. Humphrey, 12 Mich. 270; Van Husan v.
Kanouse, 13 id. 803; Union Bank v. The State, 9 Yerg. (Tenn.)
490; Oliver v. Washington Mills, 11 Allen (Mass.), 268, 273.
The Solicitor-General, contra.
MR. JUSTICE MILLEn delivered the opinion of the court.

As the sum involved in this suit is small, and the law under
which the tax in question was collected has long since been
repealed, the case is of little consequence as regards any principle involved in it as a rule of future action.
The tax was assessed under sect. 122 of the internal-revenue
law, as amended by the act of 1866. What is pertinent to this
case reads as follows : "Any railroad, canal, turnpike, canal-navigation, or slack-water
company, indebted for any money for which bonds or other evidence
of indebtedness have been issued, payable in one or more years

Oct. 1879.]

RAILROAD CO. V. COLLECTOR.

after date, upon which interest is stipulated to be paid, or coupons
representing the interest, or any such company that may have declared any dividend in scrip, or money due or payable to its stockholders, including non-residents, whether citizens or aliens, as part
of the earnings, profits, income, or gains of such company, and all
profits of such company carried to the account of any fund, or used
f'or construction, shall be subject to and pay a tax of five per centum
on the amount of all such interest or coupons, dividends or profits,
whenever and wherever the same shall be payable, and to whatsoever party or person the same may be payable, including non-residents, whether citizens or aliens; and said companies are hereby
authorized to deduct and withhold from all payments on account
of any interest, or coupons, and dividends due and payable, as
aforesaid, the tax of five per centum; and the payment of the
amount of said tax so deducted from the interest, or coupons, or
dividends, and certified by the president or treasurer of said company, shall discharge said company fiom that amount of the dividend
or interest, or coupon on the bonds, or other evidences of their indebtedness so held by any person or party whatever, except where
said companies have contracted otherwise." 14 Stat. 138.
The agreed statement on which the case was tried shows
that the tax was for interest paid by the company on sterling
bonds in London, which bonds were issued long before the
internal-revenue law was enacted, and it is perhaps fairly to be
inferred from the statement that the bonds were held at the
time by foreigners.
It is on this latter feature of the case that resistance to the
tax is founded. It is urged that it is a tax on the property
-if property it may be called -, of persons not subject to
the jurisdiction of this government, and therefore beyond the
power of Congress to levy or enforce.
That the tax was actually collected without resistance, and
the present suit-is§ brought to recover it back, is sufficient
answer to the assertion that it could not be enforced.
Whether Congress, having the power to enforce the law, has
the authority to levy such a tax on the interest due by a citizen
of the United States to one who is not domiciled within our
limits, and who owes the government no allegiance, is a question which we do not think necessary to the decision of this
case.

RAILROAD Co. V. COLLECTOR.

[Sup. Ct.

The tax, in our opinion, is essentially an excise on the business of the class of corporations mentioned in the statute. The
section is a part of the system of taxing incomes, earnings, and
profits adopted during the late war, and abandoned as soon after
that war was ended as it could be done safely. The corporations mentioned in this section are those engaged in furnishing
road-ways and water-ways for the transportation of persons and
property, and the manifest purpose of the law was to levy the
tax on the net earnings of such companies. How were these
"earnings, profits, incomes, or gains" to be most certainly
ascertained ? In every well-conducted corporation of this character these profits were disposed of in one of four methods;
namely, distributed to its stockholders as dividends, used in
constructio of its roads or canals, paid out for interest on its
funded debts, or carried to a reserve or other fund remaining
in its hands. Looking to these modes of distribution as the
surest evidence of the earnings which Congress intended to tax,
and as less liable to evasion than any other, the tax is imposed
upon all of them. The books and records of the company are
thus made evidence of the profits they have made, and the
corporation itself is made responsible for the payment of the
tax.
Manifestly such a mode of ascertaining the net earnings of
the company would not be complete unless the sums paid as
interest on their bonded debts were taken into the account.
Of course it was competent for Congress to tax only the
earnings after deducting this interest paid on their debt, or to
treat the sum so paid as part of the net earnings, and paid out
of them as dividends were. It adopted the latter policy.
It results from this course of observation that the tax was
not laid on the bondholder who received the interest, but on
the earnings of the corporation which paid the interest.
It is very true that the act went further, and declared that,
except when the company bad contracted otherwise, it might
deduct this tax from the amount due the bondholders. And
where the bondholder was subject to congressional legislation,
by reason of citizenship, residence, or situs of the property
taxed, it was within the lawful power of Congress to do so.
Whether, as a question of international law, this declaration

Oct. 1879.]

JONES v. BLACKWELL.

would relieve the corporation from the obligation to pay its
foreign bondholder the full sum for which it-contracted, we
need not discuss; for this court, on all such subjects, is bound
by the legislative and political departments of its own government. The tax is laid by Congress on the net earnings, which
are the results of the business of the corporation, on which
Congress had clearlyca right to lay it; and being lawfully
assessed and paid, it cannot be recovered back by reason of any
inefficiency or ethical objection to the remedy over against the
bondholder.
Judgment affirmed.

JONES v. BLACKWELL.
Manufactured tobacco shipped in bond from the manufactory and stored in an
export bonded warehouse on the 14th of June, 1872, was subject to the tax of
thirty-two cents per pfound, prescribed by the internal-revenue act of July 20,
18 8. 15 Stat. 162.

Ernon to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana.
This action was brought by Blackwell against Stockdale,
collector of internal revenue for the first collection district of
Louisiana, and, on his death, revived against Jones, his executrix.
Judgment having been rendered against her, she sued ou
this writ of error.
The facts are sufficiently stated in the opinion of the court.
111r. AssistantAttorney- (#eneral Sm)ith for the plaintiff in error.
01r. T 1). Rouse and Mr. William Grant, contra.
JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
The tobacco described in the petition was shipped by Blackwell, the plaintiff .below, in bond, from the manufactory in
Virginia to the port of New Orleans, and was there entered
in bond in an export bonded warehouse on June 13,.1872. On
the 1st of July next thereafter he, by his agents, applied to
the collector of internal revenue, for the first collection district

MR.

