IUPROVEMENT CO. v. SLICK.

[Sup. O .

the record copies of such papers, duly certified by the clerk of
the Circuit Court or his deputy, under the seal of the court,
this appeal be dismissed.
If in this way unnecessary papers are brought up, we will,
on application, make such order in respect to costs as may
under the circumstances be proper.

IMPROVMNT COMPANY V. SLACK.
The "Argilite Mining and Manufacturing Company" was incorporated by an
act of the General Assembly of Kentucky passed March 4, 1865. Its name,
by an amendment to the charter, was changed to the "Kentucky Improvement
Company," and it was authorized to "construct one or more rail tracks from
any lands owned or improved by said corporation to convenient points on tle
Ohio or Little Sandy River, or both, or to connect with other railways, and
to maintain said track or tracks, and to draw cars over the same by suitable
motive power." For the "construction and convenient and proper use and
maintenance of such railroads" the company was authorized to condemn and
appropriate the necessary lands and materials. Pursuant to said authority,
the company built and equipped a railroad, and on Aug. 15, 1866, issued in
payment therefor its six per cent coupon bonds to the amount of .$500,000,
secured by mortgage on its landed property and improvements. The road
was finished in June, 1868, and thereafter the company transported over it its
own freight, officers, and agents, and in addition thereto, though not in terms
so authorized by the charter, from time to time other passengers and freight
for hire. Beid, that the company was, within the meaning of the ninth section
of the act of July 13, 1866 (14 Stat. 138), a railroad company, and as such, for
the year 1870, liable to the tax of five per cent on coupons thereby imposed.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Massachusetts.
This was an action brought by the Kentucky Improvement
Company against Charles W. Slack, collector of internal
revenue for the third collection district of Massachusetts, to
-recover the amount of certain internal-revenue taxes which, it
was alleged, had been erroneously and illegally assessed and
collected.
The case was submitted to the court below upon the followIng agreed statement of facts - "After an appeal duly made to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue (April 29, 1873), this suit was brought against

Oct. 1879.]

IMPROVEMENT CO. v. SLACK.

the collector to recover the sum of 8750, paid to him May 24,
1870, being a tax of five per cent assessed upon coupons to the
amount of $15,000, payable Feb. 15, 1870, on bonds of said
company to the amount of $500,000, dated Aug. 15, 1866, and
bearing interest at the rate of six per cent, payable semiannually.
"The company was originally organized under an act of the
General Assembly of the Commonwealth of Kentutky, approved
March 4, 1865, by the name of the 'Argilite Mining and
Manufacturing Company,' which act provided as follows:"' SECT. 2. The objects and purposes of the incorporation of said
company shall be the mining for coal, iron ore, petroleum, carbon,
or rock oil, and any and all other minerals or mineral substances,
or the direct products of the earth, or any or all of them, and the
manufacture and refining of any or all of them, and transportation
tc market of the same; the location and field of mining and manufacture of said company shall be in Greenup, or any of its adjoining
counties.'
"' SEcT. 7. Said company shall have the power, and may, if they

choose so to do, lock and dam Little Sandy River up to their mines
ard property: Provided,for the condemnation of lands and property for said purpose the proceedings shall be had as is now provided by law for the condemnation of mill sites.
"' SECT. 8. Said company shall have the power to take, acquire,*
and hold such lands, mines, and mining lights as they may deem
necessary for the uses of said company, and all such personal property, machinery, boats, fiats, &c., as may be necessary, and to dispose of, for the use of the company and the stockholders, any or all
of the same.'
"It was enacted by an act of the said General Assembly,
approved December 14, as follows: "'SECT. 1. That the name of the "Argilite Mining and Manufacturing Company" is hereby changed, and said corporation shall
hereafter be known and styled -the "Kentucky Improvement Company."'
"'SECT. 4. The said corporation is hereby authorized to construct one or more rail tracks from any lands owned or improved
by said corporation to convenient points on the Ohio or Little

Sandy River, or both, or to connect with other railways, and to

maintain said track or tracks, and to draw cars over the. same by

IMPROVEIENT CO. v. SLACK.

[Sup. Ct.

suitable motive power. The company is hereby authorized to condemn and appropriate such lands and materials as may be necessary
for the construction and convenient and proper use and maintenance of such railroads: Providled,that for the condemnation of the
lands and materials for such purpose the same proceedings shall
be had as are now required by law for the condemnation of lands
and materials for turnpikes and plank-roads: Provdcl, further,
that the land condemned for any railroad track shall not exceed
in width one hundred feet.
"'SECT. 5. That, in order to carry out to the fullest extent the
purposes and objects of said 6ct of incorporation, the said company
is authorized to sell all minerals, mineral substances, products of the
earth, and all other articles of commerce and manufacture lawfully
possessed by them, and to buy and sell all such articles of merchandise as may be required to carry out. the objects of their charter,
and to establish agencies in any part of the United States, for the
prosecution of the traffic hereby authorized.
"' SECT. 6. That, should said company lock and dam the Little
Sandy River, they shall build two bridges over said river sufficient
for the public travel, one of the bridges to be at the crossing of
the Greenupsburg and Raccoon Furnace Road, and the other at
the crossing of the Greenupsburg and Grayson Road, at or near the

Argilite Mills.
"The Kentucky Improvement Company was duly organized
under the acts aforesaid, and commenced and continued operations thereunder until it ceased to exist, about March 1, 1870.
"At an adjourned meeting of the shareholders of said company, held on the 24th of July, 1866, it was resolved,
1st, To authorize the building of a railroad and to provide
locomotives, cars, and other facilities for the transportation of coal
and other productions to market for the canal openings near Hunnewell Furnace to Hockaday's Landing, on the Ohio River.
' 12d, That a sum not exceeding $500,000 be raised for the purpose 'of building and equipping said railroad, and afford facilities
for transportation to market for the mineral and other productions
of the company's property.
"' 3d, That the president and board of directors of this company
be, and they hereby are, authorized and empowered to issue bonds to
the amount of $500,000,; . • secured by an indenture of mortgage
on all their present landed property and improvements.. bearing
six per cent interest, the interest payable semi-annually.'

Oct. 1879.]

IMPROVEMENT CO: V. SLACK.

"In pursuance of the above vote, an issue of bonds was made
to the amount and bearing the interest named, and of date
Aug. 15, 1866, and was secured by a mortgage to trustees of
even date of the then landed property and improvements of
said company, and the coupons taxed in this case were a part
of the coupons attached thereto.
"The whole issue was duly subscribed for and delivered to
the subscribers. The road was finished and opened for the
business of the company about the 1st of June, 1868.
"In addition to its own freight and its own officers and servants, the company transported over its road from time to time
for hire other passengers and freight, but there was no provision in its charter in terms authorizing it to convey freight or
passengers other than its own.
"The receipts of the company were as follows: OTHER THAN COMPAN'Z.

1868.
July ...
...............
August. ......................
September ..
............
October ...
.............
November ...
.............
December ...
.............
January ...
.............
February ....
.
.........
March .
..............
April ....
..............
May ....
...............
June .....
............
July. . ... ..
........
.August....
..............
September ...
............
October .............
November ...
............
December ...
..... ........

.
...
...
.
.
...
I .
b . . .

. ..
.
....

P.C
4

Passenger
receipts.

Freight
receipts.

68.50
133.75
220.20
165.00
170.50
322.60
218.76
222.60
403.25
224.00
249.60
219.10
272.50
328.90
413.20
214.90
262.20
351.05

$96.40
63.13
20.00
44.35
5.25
107.77
112.43
132.30
119.55
104.35
78.80
47.45
87.67
510.60
116.82
473.11
503.52
797.66

$815.95
1,183.22
1,075.22
1,461.30
1,586.93
1,356.60
1,66.60
1,680.08
1,958.73
1,842.57
2,339.88
2,347.01,378.51
1,605.14
1,017.27

278.60
....130.00

332.30
80.00

1,569.84
805.00

$4,868.80

$3,833.36

$29,709.80

o
01

991.05

1,380.21
1,648.70

1870.
January
February 1-16......".

.

IMPROVEMENT Co. v. SLACK.

652

[Sup. Ct

"The company's sales of coal were as follows:

1

,,
,,
,,
,,

....
........
........

,,
,,
,,

$774.71

.........

1866, April 1 to Dec. 31 ..
1867, Jan.
1868,
,,
1869,
,
1870,
,,

Feb. 15 ..

-

....

.324.33

.

........

25,576.82
40,909.01
6,541.55

$74,126.42
"And the company produced for its own use during same
period as follows:1866
1867
1868
1869
1870

.....
......
......
...............
........

.
356.16 tons
,
.5,433.55
2,286.78 ,,
,,
.
792
60
,,

..............
..............
..............
.....
..........

"And the company's sales of iron were: 1866, April I to Dec. 31 ..
1867, Jan. I
1868,
,,
1869, ,,
1870, ,,

,,
,,
,,
,,

,,
,,
,,

........

.
......
........
........

Feb. 15 .....

$49,071.16
.95,846.46

....

161,735.46
145,812.15
18,204.13

$470,669.36
"And the company's sales at its stores on the ground during
same period amounted to 8506,529.75."
The court below found for the defendant, whereupon the
company sued out this writ of error.
Mr. Francis W Payfrey for the plaintiff in error.
The company was a mining, not a railroad company. It
constructed and operated the railroad for its own Apbeial uses.
The 'primary object of a railroad company is commerce and
transportation. Railroad Company v. Peniston, 18 Wall. 49.
Railroad companies are carriers for hire. Chicago, Burllngton, 46 Quincy Railroad Co. v. Iowa, 94 U. S. 155.
A corporation created by statute can exercise no powers and
has no rights except such as are expressly given or necessarily
implied. Huntington v. Savings Ban , 96 id. 388.
"Express power is invariably given (if intended to be conferred) to the railroad company to equip its road, and to trans-

Oct. 1879.]

IMPROVEMENT CO. V. SLACK.

port goods and passengers thereon and charge transportation
therefor. This practice evidently springs from the conviction
that a railroad company is not necessarily a transportation
company, and that, to make it such, express authority must
be given for that purpose, in compliance with the rule that
no power is conferred upon a corporation which is not given
expressly or by clear implication." Lake Superior & .Missis.
8i~pp Railroad Co. v. United States, 93 id. 442.
In this ease there is no indication that the convenience of the
public was considered, -there is not a word said in the charter
about general commerce, general transportation, rates of toll,
rates of fare, common carriers, depots, or stations. On the contrary, the charter points to the construction and use of a track
or tracks for the business of the company. The legislature of
Kentucky contemplated the creation not of a railroad company,
but of a mining and manufacturing company with permission to
construct and use a set of tracks for its-own special purposes; and
the action of the company was in accordance with the grant.
But if the court shall be of opinion that the company was
a railroad company within the meaning of the act, it was certainly not Isa railroad company indebted for any money for
which bonds had been issued."
The company, while it was-a mining and manufacturing
company and nothing else, voted "to authorize the building of
a railroad . . .for the transportation of coal and other productions to market ...
"That a sum . . .be raised for the purpose of building and
equipping said railroad, and afford facilities for transportation
to market for the mineral and other productions of the company's property; . .. to issue bonds . . .secured by an indenture of mortgage on all their present landed property and
improvements."
Upon this showing, it is submitted that, even if the company
shall be held to have afterwards become a railroad company,
it could not, by such acts, become a railroad company indebted
for money, &c., within the language of the act.
Suppose the company, instead of building the road it did
build, had built a short track from one of its furnaces to another, and occasionally carried a passenger or a parcel over such

IMPROVEMENT CO. V. SLACK.

[Sup. 0t.

track for hire, could it be properly claimed that such action
constituted it a railroad company, and subjected the coupons
on its total bond issue to the internal-revenue tax ?
Or suppose that, instead of issuing bonds to the amount of
$500,000, it had issued bonds to the amount of $1,000,000, and
used half the proceeds for opening mines and half for building
a railroad, could it be properly claimed that it should pay the
internal-revenue tax. on the coupons on its whole issue?
Nor will it do to say that, even if it was not a railway company, it might receive and pay the internal-revenue tax as an
agent of the government to collect the income tax from its
bondholders. That such tax was an income tax is settled
by Raight v. Railroad Company, 6 Wall. 15; Railroad Cornpany v. Jackson, 7 id. 262; United States v. Railroad Company,
17 id. 322; Stockdale v. Insurance Company, 20 id. 323; Railroad Company v. Rose, 95 U. S. 78.
But if this court shall b6 of opinion that the plaintiff in error
was not only a railroad company, but a railroad company indebted, &c., within the language of the act, then we submit
that it was clearly protected against the tax by the proviso in
the act of July'13, 1866. 14 Stat. 139.
Te Solicitor-General, contra.
MR. JUSTICE CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.

Moneys involuntarily paid for internal-revenue taxes illegally
exacted may be recovered back from the collector in an action
of assumpsit.
Taxes of the kind, to the amount of $750, were paid to the
collector by the plaintiffs, after an unsuccessful appeal to
the Commissioner. Redress being refused, the plaintiffs instituted the present suit in theState court, where the defendant
appeared and removed the cause into the Circuit Court for the
same district. Subsequently both parties appeared in the Circuit Court and submitted the cause to the Circuit Court upon
the agreed statement of facts exhibited in the transcript.
Bonds with cotipons annexed, it appears, were issued by tbe
plaintiff company in the sum of $500,000, bearing interest at
the rate -of six per cent, payable semi-annually. Sufficient
appears-also, to show that the tax in question was a tax of five

Oct. 1879.]

IMPROVEMENT CO. V. SLACK.

per cent upon $15,000 of those coupons which fell due at the
time specified in the agreed statement. Payment of the tax
was resisted upon the ground that the plaintiffs were not a
railroad company, and the claim to recover back the money
paid for the tax, with interest, is made upon the same ground.
Judgment was rendered in favor of the defendant in the Circuit
Corrt, and the plaintiffs sued out the present writ of error.
Errors assigned in this court are as follows: 1. That the
Circuit Court erred in rendering judgment for the defendant.
2. That the court erred in finding that the plaintiffs were a
railroad company. 8. That the court erred in holding that the
plaintiffs were not protected from paying the tax by the provision in the amendatory act. 14 Stat. 189.
When first organized under their original charter, it is doubtless true that the plaintiffs were a mining and manufacturing company, covering a very large field of operations, and
with some quite extraordinary powers; as, for example, they
might lock and dam Little Sandy River up to their mines and
property, and for that purpose they might exercise the same
power in condemning lands and property as was authorized by
law for the condemnation of mill-sites.
Had the case stopped there, the question would be attended
with difficulty, and perhaps would require a reversal of the
judgment; but it does not stop there. Instead of that, the
agreed statement shows that the name of the company was
subsequently changed to that.of the Kentucky Improvement
Company, and the powers and privileges of the company were
not only greatly enlarged, but were extended to objects and
purposes other than those relating to mining and manufacturing. Authority is given to the company by the fourth section
of the new act to construct one or more rail tracks from any
lands owned or improved by the corporation to conzvenient
points on the Ohio or Little Sandy River, or both, or to connect
with other railways, and to maintain said track or tracks, and to
draw cars over the same by any suitable motive power.
Under the enlarged power conferred by the new act the
company may not only construct railway tracks and connect
with other railways, but they may condemn ard appropriate
such lands and materials as may be necessary for the construe-

IMPROVEIENT Co. V. SLACK.

[Sup. Ot.

tion and convenient and proper use and maintenance of such
railroad, without any limitation except that the same proceedings shall be had in effecting such condemnation as are required by law for the condemnation of lands and materials for
turnpikes and plank-roads, and that the lands condemned for
any railroad track shall not exceed in width one hundred feet.
Tested by the terms of the charter, it is clear that the powers
granted were more comprehensive than are usually found in
railroad charters, both in respect to the routes it may establish
and the lands and materials the company may condemn and appropriate to such uses. For aught that appears to the contrary
they might construct an indefinite number of tracks in any direction from their own lands, and might connect with every other
railroad in the State; and in constructing such tracks or making such connections they might without limit condemn and appropriate all such lands and materials s might be necessary and
convenient in constructing and maintaining the same, provided
the width for the railroad track did not exceed one hundred feet.
Confirmation of the proposition that the plaintiffs are a railroad company is also derived, from the evidence reported,
which shows that the plaintiffs, after their road was constructed and equipped with rolling-stock, used it not only to
transport their own products and manufactures, but as a public
highway for the conveyance of freight and passengers.
Two suggestions are made by the plaintiffs i- explanation of
the evidence introduced to prove that the railroad was used for.
the public accommodation: 1. That the annual receipt from that
source of employment was less than that derived from minig
and manufacturing; but it is a sufficient answer to that suggestion to say that it does not appear that they did not accommodate
all shippers and passengers who applied for any such services.
2. That the charter does not in terms authorize the company
to convey freight or passengers for hire. Suppose that is so,
still it remains that power is given to the plaintiffs to construct
a railroad, and, if so, it must be inferred that the builders and
owners of it have a right to use it, and to charge a reasonable
price for its use.
Ample power to lock and dam Little Sandy River and flow
the water to their property was given by the act of incorpo-

Oct. 1879.]

IMPROVEMENT CO. V. SLACK.

ration, nor is there any ground to suppose that that power was
taken away or withdrawn by the amendatory charter, as the
latter provides that if the company shall lock and .dam that
river they shall build two bridges over the river, sufficient for
the accommodation of the public, at the points specified in the
eighth section of the act, which warrants the conclusion that
the power to construct railroads and to lock and dam the river
named are both included in the charter as amended. Enough
appears to show that the plaintiffs adopted the act changing
their corporate name, and that the company was duly organized under the new charter, and that they continued operations
under it until the company ceased to exist.
Meetings were held by the stockholders, and at an adjourned
meeting they resolved to authorize the building of a railroad,
and to provide locomotives, cars, and other facilities for the
transportation of coal and other productions to market from the
canal openings to a certain landing on the Ohio River. What
that distance is the resolution does not state, but it is supposed
to be about twenty miles.
They also resolved that a sum not exceeding $500,000 be
raised for the purpose of building and equipping said railroad, and to afford facilities for transportation to market for
the mineral and other productions of the company's property.
Officers had previously been elected, and the shareholders
also empowered the president and directors to issue bonds for
the amount raised, to be secured by mortgage of all their
landed property and improvements, the bonds bearing six per
cent interest, payable semi-annually. Bond to that amount
were accordingly issued and were secured as indicated, and
it appears that the coupons taxed in this case were a part of
the coupons attached to those bonds.
Two years later, the railroad was finished and opened for
business, and it appears that the company within one year and
eight months transported passengers and freight over its railroad for hire to the amount of $8,700 in addition to their own
freight and passengers not paying fare.
Viewed in the light of these suggestions, it is so clear that the
plaintiffs are a railroad company, and that their road is a railroad'
that it is not deemed necessary'further to pursue the argument.
VOL. X.

42

IMPROVEMENT CO. V. SLACK.

[Sup. at.

Grant that, and still it is insisted by the plaintiffs that the
tax was illegally exacted, because the company of the plaintiffs
was not a railroad company indebted for any money for which
bonds had been issued.
Congress enacted to the effect that any -railroad indebted for
any money for which bonds or other evidences of indebtedness
have been,issued, subject to interest, or with coupons representing interest, shall pay a tax of five per cent on the amount
of all such interest or coupons. 14 Stat. 138; Barnes v. The
Railroads,17 Wall. 294-299.
Express authority was given to the plaintiffs as an improvement company to construct one or more rail tracks, as before
explained, or to connect with other railways, and to maintain
said track or tracks and draw cars over the same, by any suitable motive power, before the plaintiffs as such improvement
company resolved to build said railroad and to provide locomotives, cars, and other facilities for the purposes antecedently
mentioned; and it was for the purpose of constructing and
equipping that railroad that thd shareholders of the company
resolved to raise the said sum of $500,000, and to issue the
coupon bonds for the amount. Coupon bonds were accordingly
issued, and the record shows that the tax in question was assessed on $15,000 of such coupons.
Examined in the light of these suggestions, as the case
should be, and it follows that the company of the plaintiffs
was a railroad company indebted for money for which bonds
had been issued.
Concede both of the preceding conclusions, and still the
plaintiffs contend that they should recover, because they insist
that the receipts of the company derived from the public use
of their railroad were insufficient to pay the semi-annual inter
est of the bo'nds, and that they are protected from such a tax
by the pro-Viso added by the one hundred and twenty-second
section of the amendatory act. 14 Stat. 139.
Nothing is shown in support of the theory of fact assumed
in the proposition, except what is found in the table exhibited
in the transcript. Even suppose that that is correct, it by no
means follows that it will avail the plaintiffs in the present
case, for several reasons: 1. Because, if the interest was in

Oct. 1879.]

RAILWAY CO. v. SLACK.

fact paid by the plaintiffs, it is of no consequence where they
obtained the money, it being clear that in order to raise the
question there must be an actual failure to make the payment.
2. Where the interest is paid the presumption is conclusive
that every other circumstance existed to justify the assessment
of the tax. 3. Proof to show that the interest has never
been paid is not exhibited, nor is the table referred to of a
character to satisfy the court that it shows the whole amount
of the pecuniary advantage which the plaintiffs derived from
their railroad. Without more, these remarks are sufficient to
show that each of the assignments of error must be overruled.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE FIrELD, with whom concurred M . CHIEF
JUSTICE WAITE and Mr.. JUSTICE HARLAN, dissenting.
I dissent from the judgment of the court in this case. The
construction of the short railway by the company for its own
use, to carry the products of its mine to the Ohio River, did
not, in my opinion, convert the Improvement Company, which
was organized to mine for coal, iron, and other minerals, into
'a railroad company, so as to bring it within the statute providing for a tax upon the coupons of bonds issued by such
companies.

RAILWAY CONTANY v. SLACK.
Improv'ement Company v. Slack (supra, p. 648) reaffirmed.

ERuor to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Massachusetts.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Ar. Francis W. Pafrey for the plaintiff in error.
Thse Solicitor-General,contra.
delivered the opinion of the court.
Statutory authority was given to the Eastern Kcntucky Railway Company to purchase, acquire, and hold any line of railway,
MR. JUSTICE CLIFFORD

RAILWAY

O. V. SLACK.

[Sup. at.

finished or unfinished, lying on or near their line or crossing
the same or between the termini of their railway, and to make
payment for such purchase or acquisition on such terms as
should be agreed between the parties. Pursuant to that authority, it purchased all the property of the Kentucky Improvement Company, real, personal, and mixed, including their
franchise, subject, however, to the mortgage previously made
by the grantors of their lands and improvements to secure a
certain issue of bonds, amounting to.$500,000, as therein more
fully set forth. Due conveyance of the same was made to it by
deed dated Feb. 28, 1870, as appears by the agreed statement
of facts.
Coupons were attached to the bonds, and it appears that an
internal-revenue tax of two and a half per cent was assessed
thereon by the official assessor. Payment of the tax, after an
unsuccessful appeal to the Commissioner, was made by the rail
way company. The present suit was instituted to recover back
the amount paid, with interest, as having been illegally exacted.
Service was made; and the parties appeared, and, having consented to the agreed statement of facts exhibited in the record,
submitted the cause to the court without a jury. Hearing was
had; and the court rendered judgment in favor of the defendant, and the plaintiff removed the cause into this court.
Two errors are assigned: 1. That the court erred in finding
that the grantors of the plaintiffs were a railroad company, and
liable to the tax assessed upon the coupons attached to their
bonds. 2. That the court erred in finding that the plaintiffs
were liable for the tax assessed.
Railroad companies were by law made subject to an internal-.
revenue tax for the year 1871 of two and a half per cent on the
am6unt of all interest or coupons paid on bonds or other evidences of debt issued and payable in one or more years after
date. 16 9tat. 260.
Such taxes for the year specified in the act cited were assessed
against the plaintiffs, and the present suit was instituted to recover back the amount paid with lawful interest.
It appears by the act of incorporation that the plaintiffs were
created a body politic and corporate for the purpose of constructing a railroad with a single or double track, with all the

Oct. 1879.]

RAILROAD Co. v. BLAIR.

privileges and rights usual to such corporations. Power to
make the purchase of the line of railroad constructed by the
Improvement Company, as described in the opinion just read,
is admitted. Nor is it necessary to enter into any explanation
as to the circumstances under which the bonds of the Improvement Company were issued, as it is admitted in the agreed
statement of facts filed in this case that those circumstances
are fully shown in the agreed statements of facts filed in that
case.
Viewed in the light of these suggestions, it is quite clear that
any discussion of the question presented in the first assignment
of errors is unnecessary, except to refer to the decision in
Improvement Company v. Slack (upra, p. 648), and the reasons
there given for the conclusion that the company in that case
was a railroad company.
Suppose that is so, then it is conceded by the plaintiffs in this
case that they cannot sustain their second assignment of errors,
which is all that need be said upon the subject.
Judgment affirmed.

RAILROAD CoiANY v. BLAIR.
1. A citation is not required when the appeal is taken and perfected in open
court during the term at which the decree complained of is entered; aliter,
where, at a subsequent term, the appeal is allowed, although the sqlicitor8
of the appellee be present.
2. The appeal will not, however, be dismissed in the latter case, but terms will be
Imposed upon the appellant.
3. Dajton v. Lash (9 U. S. 112) cited and approved.

MoT IoN to dismiss an appeal from the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Northern District of Illinois.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
J11r. W. C. Lar'zed in support of the motion.
X2r. Lyman Trumbull, contra.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
The decree appealed from in this case was rendered Feb.

