Oct. 1879.]

MINING

Co. v.

TAYLOR.

MIUNG CompANY

v.

TAYLOR.

1. In ejectment for an undivided interest in a mining claim in Nevada, where
both parties derive title from the original owner, the validity and regularity
of his location are not in question.
2. Where the plaintiff was a tenant in common with the defendants, their possession of the claim was his possession until he was ousted. The Statute of
Limitations would then run against him, but not bar his recovery, unless,
after such ouster, their adverse possession was maintained two years before
the commencement of the suit.
3. The Statute of Limitations of that State, as construed by its Supreme Court,
excepts from its protection a foreign corporation.
4. Where the Circuit Court, under a written stipulation of the parties, tries the
issue, its special finding should set forth the ultimate facts, and not the evidence establishing them. Where, therefore, both parties claimed under A.,
and the court found his ownership, the chain of conveyances by which he
acquired it need not be set forth.
G. A conveyance in writing is not necessary to the valid transfer of a mining
claim.
8. The admission of immaterial and irrelevant evidence, which it is manifest
could not have affected injuriously the case of the plaintiff in error, does
not entitle him to a reversal of the judgment.

ERROr to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Nevada.
This was an action of ejectment brought Dec. 23, 1874, by
James D. Taylor against The Union Consolidated Silver Mining Company, to recover the possession of an undivided interest, equal to five feet, of a mining claim and lode, part of the
Comstock lode, situate in the Virginia Mining District, in
Storey County, State of Nevada. Under an agreement of the
parties the ease was, without a jury, tried by the court, which
found as facts that the parties were tenants in common of the
mining claim known as the Union claim, for an undivided
interest in which the suit was brought; that they claimed and
derived title from the same source, namely, Payne and Cook,
the original locators of the claim; that one Solomon Wood, on
the eleventh day of October, 1862, was the owner of at least
an undivided fifty feet of the claim, having derived his title
thereto regularly from the original locators, and that on that
day he sold and conveyed by deed to the plaintiff an undivided
five feet of the claim, describing it as "five undivided feet
interest in the claims of the Union Company, located upon the

MINING

Co. v.

TAYLOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Com'stock silver lode; said claims consist of three hundred feet,
bounded north by the claims of the Sierra Nevada Silver Mlining
Company, and on the south by the claims of the Ophir Silver
'Mining Company;" that during the years 1860, 1861, 1862,
1868, and 1864, the original locators of the Union claim, and
others deriving title from them, including Wood, the immediate grantor of the plaintiff, and the plaintiff himself, expended
over $30,000 in prospecting and developing the claim, though
the plaintiff personally had done no'work upon it since 1863,
nor had any been done for him, except so far as the work
done by his c6-tenants can be considered work done. for
him; that after the plaintiff's title had been acquired, namely,
on the thirtieth day of September, 1868, 0. H. Reynolds
and others, al1 of whom had derived title from the original
locators of the mining claim, sold and conveyed all their
interests therein to a California corporation, styled the Union
Gold and Silver Mining Company; and that, on the twentyseventh day of May, 1874, that company sold and conveyed
all its interest in the Union claim to the defendant, a California corporation, organized in and under the laws of that
State.
The court further found that the defendant and its grantors.
had been in possession of the ground in controversy during
more than two years before the commencement of this action,
and were in possession when the suit was brought, and had
been for more than five months before that time in possession
of the Union claim, which extends on the Comstock lode a
distance of three hundred feet, including the ground in dispute,
and that the plaintiff had made no demand to be let into possession of the premises before commencing his action, but that
the defendant was in the exclusive adverse possession before
that time, and had in fact ousted the plaintiff from the
possession.
In the course of the trial the company excepted to the
admission of exhibits "A" and "C," and certain mining rules
and regulations. Judgment was rendered for the plaintiff.
The company thereupon sued out this writ, and assigns for
error that the court below erred: 1st, In admitting as evidence
said exhibits and said rules; 2d, in ruling that the plaintiff

Octl. 1879.]

MINING Co. v. TAYLOR.

was entitled to recover; 3d, in giving judgment upon the facts
found for five instead of two and a half feet; 4th, in giving
judgment for the plaintiff, when the finding, which is special,
and should therefore contain every fact essential to a recovery,
does not show such facts of conveyance, possession, &c., as
result necessarily in the legal conclusion that the plaintiff was
entitled to the property sued for.
Exhibi A.
"1Coom & PAYN

to A. KENINEDY & CO.

"VIRGINIA CITY, Sept. 20, 1859.
"6This is to certify that we, D. B. Cook, J. Cook, and E. Payne,
have thi day sold, bargained, and conveyed all our rights to and
interest in a certain set of mining claims to A. Kennedy & Co., said
claims being situated as follows: lying and being in the Virginia
district north of the Comstock claims and situated on the Comstock
and Penrod vein, for and in consideration of which A. Kennedy &
Co. agree to prospect the same thoroughly, and when pay dirt is
struck, then Cook, Payne, & Co. agree to pay one-half of the
expense and come in equal partners to the same, Kennedy & Co.
receiving one undivided half of six hundred feet.
"D. B. CooK.

" JAMES COOK.
" E. PAYNE.

"Witness: S. McFADEX.
"1Filed Sept. 7, '60, at 2J P.M.
"1Rec. Sept. 8, '60, at 3 p.M., p. 548, Vol. B, Kinsey's records."

.FEhibit C.
"GOLD HrmL, UT±E

TERRITORY,

July 20, 1859.

show that I, Edward Payne, have this day admitted
"cThis is David B. Cook into the claim north of the Comstock and Co.'s
stakes as an equal partner in the six hundred feet of the quartz
lead, and known as the Comstock lead, and running north of the
Comstock stakes. And als- give the power to manage that claim
to work or let as he D. B. Cook sees fit.
"EDWARDn PAYNE.
"JA

s COOK."

M1r. Hfarry I Thornton and Mr.M L. Smoot for the plaintiff
inerror.
Atr. 1. E. . .Deal,,contra.

M1INING

Co. v.

TAYLOR.

[Sup. Ct.

AR. JUSTICE ST-RONG, aft r stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
Upon the facts found by the Circuit Court it is evident that
Taylor, the plaintiff below, was entitled to recover, unless he
was barred by the Statute of Limitations. Claiming, as both
parties did, under Payne and Cook, the regularity and validity
of the location of the mining claim are not in question. And
when, in 1862, the plaintiff purchased from one of the owners
of the claim an undivided interest therein, and went into possession with his grantor and with others deriving title from
the original locators, expending large sums in prospecting and
developing it (acts which the State statute declares shall constitute adverse possession), he became a tenant in common
with those who were then the owners. He was such when
the Union Gold and Silver Mining Company purchased the
interest of other owners. By that purchase that company succeeded to a tenancy in common with him, and so did the defendant when it became the parchaser. Although after 1863
the plaintiff did no work personally upon the property, he
did not thereby lose the possession he had after his purchase
from Wood. The possession of his co-tenants was his possession. They held it for him until he was ousted. That this
is a settled rule of law is not denied. And we find nothing
in the statutes of Nevada to which we have been referred
that is at variance with the rule, even when applicable to
mining claims. That it does apply is expressly held in Vhan
TValkenburg v. Muff, 1 Nev. 142. It follows that neither the
defendant nor its grantor had any possession adverse to the
plaintiff prior to the time when the ouster was made, and no
ouster is found to have been made two years before the suit
was brought. The finding that the defendant was in possession
more than two years before suit was brought is not a finding of
an adverse possession during all that period, such as to constitute a bar under the Statute of Limitations. Such a bar, therefore, does not exist, unless the ouster took place anterior to the
commencement of those two years; and as that is a matter of
defence, it should appear affirmatively, to be of any avail.
It is, however, useless to enlarge upon this, for the findings
show clearly that the defendant has no protection under the

Oct. 1879.]

MINING

Co. v.

TAYLOR.

Statutes of Limitations. The plaintiff was in possession with
others who derived their title from the original locators, until
the Union Gold and Silver Mining Company, a California corporation, acquired their title, in September, 1863. After that
time the statute could not ran against him in favor of that
corporation, or its grantee, the defendant, also a foreign corporation. The Statutes of Limitations of Nevada are held by
the Supreme Court of that State to except foreign corporations from their protection. Bobinson,v. hnperialSilver Mining
Co., 5 Nev. 44; Bartow v. Union ConsolidatedSilver Mining
Co., 10 id. 386. Hence those statutes cannot be set up by the
defendant as a defence in this case; and as the Circuit Court
found as a fact that the plaintiff had been ousted by the defendant from his property, no reason appears why he was not
entitled to recover according to the interest which he held
prior to the ouster.
It is insisted, however, that, if entitled to recover at all,
judgment should have been given for no more than two and
a half undivided feet of the mining claim. This position cannot be maintained. It is true the original locators claimed six
hundred feet extending along the Comstock vein, but of more
than three hundred feet they never bad an undisputed title,
and that three hundred feet lies next to the claim of the Ophir
Company on the south. Indeed, the finding is express, that
the Union claim begins at a point fifteen hundred feet north
of the claim of the Ophir Company, and extends northward on
the Comstock lode three hundred feet, including the ground in
dispute. Of that claim Solomon Wood, the plaintiff's grantor,
-was the owner of at least fifty feet undivided; and he sold and
conveyed to the plaintiff five andivided feet interest therein,.
describing the claim as consisting of three hundred feet,
bounded on the south by the claim of the Ophir Company.
There can be no .doubt, therefore, what was intended to be
conveyed. Plainly, it was five undivided feet of that three
hundi'ed, and, therefore, whether the whole claim in fact consisted of three hundred or six hundred feet can make no difference. Owning, as Wood did, fifty feet undivided, it was in his
power to convey, as he did, an undivided interest of five feet
in the southern three hundred.

MiNING Co. v. TAYLOR.

[Sup. t

It is objected by the plaintiff in error that the special finding
of the court was not sufficiently full and formal to justify any
judgment; that it did not find the essential facts, but left presumptions of fact to be drawn; that it did not find how Solomon
Wood became the owner, or set out in words the conveyances
under which the parties claimed. Whether a special finding
of facts by the court must have all the requisites of a special
verdict, it is not necessary now to assert or deny, for all that is
essential to such a verdict is an ascertainment of the ultimate
facts. A jury is not to find evidence. We think the ultimate
facts were sufficiently found in this case. The ownership of
Wood in 1862 was an ultimate fact, and even if Taylor had no
other right to the possession than that which he derived from
Wood by conveyance, it was not necessary to set forth the
chain of conveyances by which Wood became the owner. A
transfer of possession is sufficient. They would have been but
evidence of Wood's ownership. Besides, a written conveyance
is not necessary to the transfer of a mining claim. Table
AfountainE
Tunnel Co. v. Stranahan,20 Cal. 198. But Wood
was in possession when he sold to Taylor, and Taylor then
went into joint possession within. That possession is enough
to justify a recovery by him against a disseisor.
The only other assignment of error is the first, and it needs
no consideration. Apart from the fact that the defendant
claims under Payne and Cook, and is therefore not at liberty
to dispute their title, it is impossible-to discover how it could
have been injured by the reception of Exhibits A and C.
The instrument C was certainly sufficient to transfer an interest in the mining claim, and the mining rules, at worst, were
only immaterial. The admission of immateiial or irrelevant
evidence is no sufficient reason for reversing a judgment, when
it is apparent, as in this case, that it cannot have affected the
verdict or the finding injuriously to the plaintiff in error.
Judgment affirmed

MR.JUSTicE FIELD did not sit in this case

