Oct. 1879.]

PAoKr Co. V. ST. Louis.

PACKET Co2,MAN

v. ST. Louis.

1. A municipal corporation, owning improved wharves and other artificial means
which it maintains, at its own cost, for the benefit of those engaged in com
merce upon the public navigable waters of the United States, is not prohib
ited by the Constitution of the United States from charging and collecting
from parties using its wharves and facilities such reasonable fees as will
fairly remunerate it for the use of the property.
2. Packb t Company v. Kokuk (95 U. S. 80) affirmed.

E Rnon to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Missouri.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
M1r. James H. Davidson, for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. Leverett Bell, contra.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff in error is a corporation of the State of Iowa,
and, during the years 1870, 1871, and up to March 28, 1872,
was engaged with steamboats and barges of which it was the
owner, in the business of commerce and navigation on the
Mississippi River, between ports and places in different States.
Its steamboats and barges, in the course of such business,
landed at St. Louis, and, during the period named, it paid to
that city, upon the demand of its constituted authorities, large
sums of money, amounting in the aggregate to $6,571.85.
These sums were exacted as wharfage dues, in virtue of certain ordinances of the city, one of which was entitled "An
ordinance establishing and regulating the harbor department,"
and the other, "An ordinance to reduce the rate of wharfage
in the city of St. Louis."
The authority of the city to collect these fees is referred to
sect. 30 of the ordinance first named, which is as follows: "There shall be collected from each and every boat, of whatever
kind or description, . . . for each and every time the same shall

come within the harbor of said city, and land at any wharf or landing, or be made fast thereto, or to any boat thereto fastened, or
shall receive or discharge any freight or passengers in this city, or
shall tow coal or any other article in the harbor, seven and one-

PAcK

Co. v. ST. Louis.

[Sup. lot.

half cents for each ton of said boat's burden, by custom-house
measurement, as wharfage dues. If the boat have no custom-house
measurement, or if the harbor-master be not satisfied as to the correctness of said boat's custom-house measurement, le is hereby
empowered and directed to ascertain the tonnage of said boat by
measurement, according to the rules and regulations of the United
States in the measurement of boats and wharfage shall be collected
according to such measurement: _Provided,that any boat making
regular daily, semi-weekly, tri-weekly, or weekly trips, or is engaged in the business of towing, and ferry-boats, may pay wharfage dues at a different or special rate, as may be provided by this
ordinance."
The payments in question were made by the company whenever demanded, but always under protest, and without waiving
any right it had to recover the same from the city by an
action at law.
This action was instituted to compel the repayment of the
sums thus collected, upon the ground that the ordinances in
question, and particularly the section above quoted, was in conflict, 1st, with the clause prohibiting any State, without the
consent of Congress, from laying any duty of tonnage; 2d,
with the clause which declares that "no tax or duty shall be
laid on articles exported from any State; no preference shall be
given any r6gulation of commerce or revenue to the ports of
any one State over those of another; nor shall any vessels
bound to or from one State be obliged to enter, clear, or pay
duties in another;" 8d,- with the clause conferring upon Congress the right to regulate commerce with foreign nations,
among the several States, and with the Indian tribes; 4th,
with the "Treaty of Paris, 1783," which declares that "the
navigation of the river Mississippi, from its source to the
ocean, shall for ever remain free and open to the subjects of
Great Britai 1 and the citizens of the United States;" 5th,
with the Truaty of Spain, concluded Oct. 27, 1795, which declares: ". . . And his Catholic Majesty has likewise agreed
that the navigation of the said river, in its whole breadth,
from its source to the ocean, shall be free only to his subjects
and the citizens of the United States;" 6th, with the ordinance of 1787, which, among other things, provides "that the

Oct. 1879.]

PACKET Co. v. ST. Louis.

navigable waters leading into the Mississippi and St. Lawrence,
and the carrying places between the same, shall be common
highways and for ever free, as well to the inhabitants of the
said territory as to the citizens of the United States, that may
be admitted into the confederacy, without any tax, impost, or
duty therefor."
The comt below, the circuit and district judges concurring,
was of opinion that the plaintiff in error was legally bound
to pay the sums so exacted and paid as wharfage fees, under
the ordinances to which we have referred. Judgment was,
accordingly, given for the city. Whbther th6 facts set forth
in the special finding are sufficient to sustain the judgment
is the controlling question arising upon this writ of error.
The elaborate argument of counsel for the company is
directed to the support of the first, second, and third of the
foregoing propositions. He withholds any suggestion or argument in support of the remaining propositions, for the obvious
reason, as we suppose, that the case must fail altogether unless
the plaintiff in error can successfully maintain the invalidity
of the ordinances, under-some one or more of the constitutional
provisions by him cited. If the particular section of the ordinance, by virtue of which these collections were made, is not
in conflict with the Federal Constitution, there would be no
ground whatever for holding that it was inconsistent with
either of the treaties referred to, or with the ordinance of 1787.
We will, therefore, only consider whether the city of St. Louis
was inhibited by any provision of the Federal Constitution from
charging and collecting the fees, to enforce the repayment of
which is the object of this action.
By the charter of the city, its mayor and council were invested with authority to regulate the stationing, anchoring,
and mooring of vessels, within the city, and to charge and collect wharfage on fire-wood, lumber, logs, &c., brought to the
port of St. Louis. The council was also required, from time
to time, to provide, by ordinance, for the levy and collection
of taxes, licenses, wharfage, and other dues, under penalty for
neglect or refusal to pay the same; also, for maintaining the
permanency of and improving the wharf and harbor, and for
opening and extending the wharf, applying, init discretion,

PACKET Co. v. ST. Louis.

[Sup. Ct.

all the net receipts from wharfage to the credit Df the wharf
funds.
Under the authority thus conferred, the city passed the ordinance regulating and establishing its harbor department and
prescribing the duties of the harbor-magter.
By that ordinance it is declared that the harbor of the city
comprises the bed of the Mississippi River, its channels,
sloughs, bayous, bars, and islands, from the mouth of the
Missouri River to the southern boundary of the city. The
jurisdiction of the harbor-master is made to extend over all
the lands, river bank, and beach dedicated, condemned, occupied, or used for wharf purposes, within the city, and over so
much of the Mississippi River, and to the middle of the main
channel thereof as lies immediately in front of the city, over
which the city has control.
It is ,made his duty to direct the landing and stationing of
all water-craft arriving at any point within the limits of the
city, and to direct the d~schat'ge and removal of their cargoes,
so as to prevent interference between different vessels and their
cargoes; to superintend the arrangement of freight, merchandise, and materials for repairs in the river bank, so that the
same shall occupy as little space as possible; to see that all
combustible materials on the landing are sufficiently protected
from fire; to keep the wharf and the river along the shore
free from improper obstructions; to keep in repair the ringbolts provided for fastening vessels; to regulate and control by
proper rules to be established and published, all vehicles traversing the wharf or landing, and to remove thence such as unnecessarily obstruct free passage upon said wharf or landing,
and generally to exercise complete supervision and control
over the wharf, river bank, landing and Front Street.
It is also made his duty, under the direction of the mayor to
provide, at the expense of the city, whenever the same shall be
deemed necessary, suitable posts and ring-bolts for boats and
rafts to make fast to and keep the same in repair; also to extend the° steamboat landing, north- and south, as soon as the
wharf was made suitable for the landing of merchandise, and
the depth of the water shall justify, so as to give room required
by boats for tbh handling, receiving, and discharging of freight,

Oct. 1879.]

PiCKET Co. v. ST. Louis.

and for the free passage of drays and other vehicles, and to
designate the boundary of each class of boats, according to the
wants of different trades at the time of such extension.
The duties thus imposed upon the harbor-master, if faithfully
discharged, must, it will be conceded, materially advance, and
not obstruct or burden trade and business on the Mississippi
River, especially at the port of St. Louis. Services rendered
by him in the execution of those duties would be in aid, and
not a hinderance, of commerce and navigation.. Besides, as the
special finding discloses, the city acquired, at its own expense,
and owns the property within its limits along the west bank of
the Mississippi River, and for the purposes of a wharf has improved, paved, and maintains in repair, at its own cost, one and
a half miles of the same at an enormous expense. That wharf
was used by the plaintiff in error in conducting, its business,
at all stages of water, for the purpose of receiving and discharging freight, and for the convenience of passengers in getting on
and off its boats. Its boats landed at and used only the improved wharf. And it is found as a fact in the case that the
fees demanded from and paid by the company, under the city
ordinances, "were reasonable in amount, and a reasonable compensation for the use of defendant's wharf, if defendant (the
city) was entitled to collect any sums whatever- under said
ordinance."
From this analysis of the special finding and the ordinance
establishing and regulating the harbor department of St. Louis,
it is not difficult to apprehend the nature and scope of the
question before us. Briefly stated, it is whether a municipal
corporation, owning improved wharves and other artificial means
which it has provided and maintains, at its own cost, for the
benefit of those engaged in commerce upon the public navigable
waters of the United States, is prohibited by the national Constitution from charging and collecting from those using its
wharves and facilities, such reasonable fees as will fairly remunerate it for the use of its property?
This precise question hs heretofore received careful consideration by this court, and we recognize nothing in this case
which has not been concluded by former adjudicationis, or which
requires extended discussion.

PACKET Co. v. ST. Louis.

[Sup. Ct.

In Cannon v. New Orleans (20 Wall. 577), upon writ of
error to the Supreme Court of Louisiana, we had occasion to
consider the constitutional validity of an ordinance of the city
of New Orleans, whereby "levee and wharfage dues" were
imposed upon steamboats mooring or landing "in any part of
the port" of that city, the amount of such duties to be determined, at a fixed rate, by the tonnage of such vessels. That
case is relied upon here as sustaining the ground upon which
the plaintiff in error assails the validity of the ordinance passed
by the municipal authorities of St. Louis. We do not, however,
assent to any such construction of our opinion in that case. It
was in evidence there, that not more than one-tenth of the
twenty miles and more of the levee and banks of the Mississippi,
within the corporate limits of New Orleans, had any wharf,
and that vessels often landed at various places, within the city,
where nh-wharfage facilities existed. It does not appear from
the opinion of the court, or from the reporter's statement of
that case, where the landings of Cannon's steamer were actually
made, whether at the improved ivharf of the city, or at points
where no wharf accommodations were furnished for the use of
vessels. We, therefore, held, that the ordinance, interpreted
in the light of the admitted condition of the river and its banks
-withinthe city, 4mposed a duty of tonnage for the mere privilege
of stopping, mooring, or landing at the port of New Orleans,
and that the charges exacted could not, in view of the special
circumstances disclosed by the evidence, be regarded or supported, as compensation simply for the use of the city's wharves.
But we there expressly recognized, as essential to the interests
of commerce and navigation, and as entirely consistent with the
provisions of the national Constitution, the right of a munici.pal
corporation, thereunto authorized by the State which created it,
to demand from those engaged in commerce just compensation
for the use of wharves, or other artificial facilities, provided and
maintained at its expense.
That such was the import of our decision in Cannon v. N eiv
Orleans is shown in the recent case of Packet Company v. Keokeuke (95 U. S. 80), where the question under consideration was
again and very fully examined in connection with an ordinance
of Keokuk, which, in its main features, is like that now under

Oct. 1879.]

PACKET CO. v. Sr. Louis.

examination. By the Keokuk ordinance wharfage fees were
charged whenever a steamboat should make fast to any part of
the wharf of that city, or to any vessel, or other thing at or
upon said wharf, or should receive or discharge any passengers
or freight thereon, or should use any part of the wharf for the
purpose of discharging, receiving, or landing any freight or
passenger- the fees, in such cases, to be measured by the tonnage of the boat using the wharf. The unanimous judgment
of the court was that the Keokuk ordinance was not repugnant
to the Constitution of the United States -that the wharfage
fees collectible thereunder were by way of compensation to the
city for the use of its property, and were not duties, taxes, or
burdens for the mere privilege of entering the port of Keokuk,
or remaining in it, or departing from it.
We need not repeat the reasons there given for th3 distinction between tonnage duties, which the States are prohi ited
from levying without the consent of Congress, and wharfage
dues, properly so called, imposed in good faith, and to the
extent only of fair remuneration for wharf accommodations
furnished for the convenience of trade and commerce. We
adhere to the doctrines announced in that case. They are
decisive of the present one. The sums paid by the plaintiff in
error were exacted and paid as compensation for the use of an
improved wharf and not for the mere privilege of entering or
stopping at the port of St. Louis, or for landing at the shore,
in its natural condition, where there were no conveniences
which could be called a wharf. The amount paid is conceded
to have been just and reasonable compensation for vessels and
barges such as those owned by the plaintiff in error. It was
not out of proportion to the advantages and benefits enjoyed
in the use of the improved wharf. The one was a fair equivalent for the other. Nor is there any ground whatever to
suppose that these wbarfage fees were exacted for the purpose of increasing the general revenue of the city beyond
what was necessary to meet its outlay, from time to time, in
maintaining its wharves in such condition as the immense business and trade of that locality required. We are not at liberty, from any thing disclosed by the record, to suppose that
the city intended its ordinance as a mere, cover for laying

VICKSBURG v. TOBIN.

[Sup. Ot

duties of tonnage within the meaning of the Federal Constitution.
What has been said renders it unnecessary to consider any
other question presented in argument.
To avoid misapprehension, it is, perhaps, well to say that we
express no opinion as to the validity of any of the provisions
of the city charter or ordinances except such as have direct
reference to the case before us. We restrict our decision to
the single point that the city was not prohibited by the Federal
Constitution from collecting the wharfage fees in question as
reasonable compensation for the use of its wharves by the plaintiff inerror.
Judgment affirmed.

VICKSBURG

v.

TOBIN.

"A L
1. The ordinance of the city of Vicksburg passed July 12, 1865, entitled
ordinance establishing the rate of wharfage to be collected from steamboats
and other water-craft landing and lying at the City of Vicksburg," is not
in conflict with the Constitution of the United States.
2. Packet Company v.St. Louis (supra, p. 423), affirmed.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Mississippi.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
.7fr.Philip Phillips, for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. WV. B. Pittman, contra.
AIR. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.

This writ of error involves the constitutional validity of an
ordinance of the city of Vicksburg, passed July 12, 1865, entitled "An ordinance establishing the rate of wharfage to be
collected from steamboats and other water-craft, landing an]
lying at the city of Vicksburg."
The ordinance declares that all steamboats "landing at this
[that] city" shall pay wharfage at the following rates: All
packets terminating their trips at the city, per veek, $10; all
steamboats knder 1,000 tons burthen, passing and repassing,

