"SAvINGS BANK V. CRESWELL.

[Sup. CL.

SAViNGS BAe v. CRESWFLL.
1. Where real estate bound by a judgment or a mortgage has been alienated
in separate parcels to various persons at different times, such parcels
should be subjected to the satisfaction of the lien in the inverse order
of their alienation.
2. The English and the American authorities on the subject considered and
reviewed.

AP.PrA from the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
On June 20, 1870, the firm of S. P. Brown & Son made to
Samuel P. Brown its promissory note for $10,000, payable to
his order one year thereafter, which he duly indorsed to the
Freedman's Saving and Trust Company. To secure its payment, he executed to Daniel L. Eaton, the actuary of the
company, a deed of trust for certain lots of ground in Mount
Pleasant, in the District of Columbia. Default having been
made in the payment of the note, the trustee sold the property
Oct. 12, 1872, and conveyed it to the company.
. On March 8, 1870, Johh M. Jolly obtained in the court below a judgment against Samuel P. Brown. At various times
in 1873 the company, for a valuable consideration, sold and
conveyed a portion of' said lots to different purchasers, giving
to each its bond to save him harmless against said judgment.
It still holds the remaining lots.
Some time about December, 1870, the National Savings
Bank of the District of Columbia loaned to said Brown,
or to said firm, moneys, to secure the payment of which he
executed deeds of trust upon a number of other lots in Mount
Pleasant. The moneys remaining unpaid, the bank, to protect its security against said judgment, purchased the same
from Jolly, and, in July, 1874, issued an execution thereon,
and caused it to be levied on the lots embraced by the trustdeed to Eaton.
This bill against thb Savings Bank was filed by John A. J.
Creswell, Robert Purvis, and Robert H. T. Leipold, the commissioners of the Freedman's Savings and Trust Company.
It alleges that said promissory note remains unpaid, except so

Oct. 1879.]

SAVINGS BANK V. CRESWELL.

far as it has been reduced by the application of the proceeds
of the lots so sold by the company, and that the latter is willing to pay its pro rata share to relieve from the lien of said
judgment them and the remaining lots conveyed by Eaton, if
it is in law or in. equity bound so to contribute. It prays for
an injunction restraining the Savings Bank and the marshal
for said district, who was made a defendant, from selling said
lots under said execution, and for general relief. By an
amended bill, the purchasers from the company were made
defendants. The National Savings Bank set up among other
things in its answer that Brown, at the time of the rendition
of said judgment, owned a considerable amount of property
subject to the lien of said judgment other than that described
in"the complainants' bill, which property having been conveyed
by him subsequently to his conveyances in trust to secure his
debt to the defendant, the purchasers thereof are necessary
parties in order to charge them with a pro rata share of said
judagent.
The remaining facts are stated in the opinion of, .the court.
The special term- decreed that the complainants were entitled
to have all the real estate belonging to said Samuel P. Brown
ou the twentieth day of June, 1870, bound by the judgment at
laM in favor of John I4. Jolly, sold in the inverse order of its
alienation by said Brown, including that conveyed by him for
the security of the Nationa . Savings Bank, before the lands
conveyed for the security of the Freedman's Savings and Trust
Company can be called upon to contribute to the payment of
any part of said judgment. The defendants wtre also enjoined from in any wise interfering with any of said property
for the purpose of collecting or satisfying the said judgment,
or any part of it, until all the other real estate belonging to;
said Brown on said twentieth day of June, bound by said
judgment, shall have been sold, and the proceeds applied to
the payment thereof.
That decree having been affirmed by the Supreme Court of
the District of Columbia at its general term, the National
Savings Bank appealed to this court.
11.r. James 3i. Jolnston for the appellant.
The rule that where several parcels of land, bound by a corn-

SAVINGS BANK V. CRESWELL.

[Sup. 0t.

mon charge, are conveyed by warranty deed to different purchasers and at different times, such parcels are charged with
the paramount lien in the inverse order of their alienation, provided the junior purchasers have notice of the lien and of the
prior conveyances of portions of the land bound by it, had never,
previously to the decree in this case, been adopted by the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
On the contrary, this court, in Hughes v. Edwards (9 Wheat.
489), recognizes the opposing rule that, in marshalling real securities b9und by a common charge, each piece of the incumbered
property shall bear its share of the burden, in the proportion
-which the value of such parcel bears to the whole incumbrance,
and irrespective of the order in which the several parcels may
have been conveyed. That case constitutes a rule of property
in the District of Columbia, and is conclusive in the case at
bar.
The propriety of charging the paramount incumbrance on
the parcels of land in the inverse order of their alienation was
considered in Orvis v. Powell (98 U. S. 176), but there the
court only followed the local rule in force in Illinois.
The authorities are not harmonious. In the following cases,
*hat is known as the pro'ratarule has been adopted and acted
upon. Barnes v. Racster, 1 Y. & Col. N. R. 401; 1 Hilli,rd,
Mort. 310 (citing Bacon's Abr., title Execution, B. 4; Carter
v. Bernardiston,2 Eq. Cas. Abr. 224; Sir W. Herbert's Case,
3 Cox, 14; Harris v. Ingleden, 3 P. W. 98, 99); Averall v.
Wade, 2 L16. & Goo. 252; Story, Equity, sects. 477,484, 1233 b;
Adams, Equity, 270 (citing 2 Porter, 262; 2 Rand. 384; 4 id.
272; 3 J. J. Marsh. 44; 4 Monr. 76; 2 Ed. C. R. 297); Green
v. Ramage, 18 Ohio, 429; Burke v. (Chrisman, 3 B. Mon.
(Ky.) 50; -Dickey v. Thompson, 8 id. 313; Beverlg v. Brooke,
2 Leigh (Va.); 425; 2 Humph. (Tenn.) 34; .Aassie v. Wilson,
16 Iowa, 391; Barney v. Myers, 28 id. 472.
If the pro rata distribution of the common charge is the
proper mode, the decree below, directing the property to be
sold in the inverse order of its alienation by Brown, is certainly
erroneous.
If this was the only error in the decree, it might be modified
by directing the judgment to be paid pro rata from the several

Oct. 1879.]

SAVINGS BANK V. CRESWELL.

parcels of land mentioned in the bill. The appeliani set up in
its answer, however, that the owners of the ot;
perty, formerly owned by Brown, are necessary parties, inasmuch as their
property must bear its share of the common burden. No amendment to that effect having been made, the bill should be now
dismissed. SlTelds v. Barrow, 17 How. 180.
The bill is defective in that it fails to allege that the appellant, when the conveyance under which it claims was made
by Brown, had actual knowledge or constructive notice of the
prior conveyance to the company of some of the lots on which
the judgment was a lien.
If a vendee should purchase one of several lots, known by
him to be bound by a common charge, he, until otherwise
informed from some source, has a right to presume that the
remainder of the property is still vested in his vendor; and to
infer that the lot so purchased is the last to be seized to
satisfy the charge. Brown v. Simmons, 44 N. H. 475, 479;
Chase v. Woodbury, 6 Cush. (Mass.) 143; 2 W. & T. Lead.
Cas. in Eq., pt. 1, p. 298.
Hence, in order to call into existence the equity appealed to
by the complainants, it must appear that the junior vendee had
notice of the paramount lien and prior conveyance. Startey
v. Stocks, 1 Dev. (N. C.) Eq. 314; Lock v. Pulford, 52 Ill.
166; -,glelart v. Crane, 42 id. 261, 266; Insurance Company
v. Bedl, 22 Barb. (N. Y.) 56, 57, 63; Green v. _Ramage,
18 Ohio, 428; Reillyv. Mayer, 12 N. J. Eq. 56-60; Mechanics'
Associationv. Conover, 14 id. 225; Orvis v. Newell, 17 Conn. 100;
Brown v. Simmons, supra; Chase v. Woodbury, supra.
Indeed, to hold that a purchaser of real estate is to be prejudiced by a mere equity, not known to him from the land
records or from any other source, would be entirely opposed to
the spirit of our registry laws.
The bill of complaint contains no allegation that the deed
from Brown to secure the loan made by the Freedman's Savings and Trust Company was ever recorded.
However the truth may be, evidence to establish the fact of
record would not be admissible, since the proofs must be confined to the allegations. Simms v. Guthrie, 9 Cranch, 25;
Boone v. Chiles, 10 Pet. 209.

SAVINGS BANK v. CRESWELL.

[Sup. Ct.

It is true that the original deed is filed as an exhibit with
the bill of complaint, but it is not, for that reason, a part of
the latter, nor can its contents be treated as a portion of the
averments of the complainants. Terry v. Jones, 44 Miss. 542;
Strathan v. Insurance Company, 45 id. 600 ; Caton v. Willis,
5 Ired. (N. C.) Eq. 335.
Even if it were competent to refer to that deed for the purpose of supplying allegations which are wanting in the bill
itself, there is nothing on its face to indicate that it was ever
recorded, much less that it was of record when the appellant
loaned its money on the faith of Brown's title to the land
taken as security. The title of a bona fide purchaser for valuable considerations is not to be affected by loose, vague, and
uncertain evidence of the existence of the prior title. If a
former owner neglects to recdrd his title, every presumption is
to be made in favor of a subsequent purchaser. Boggs v. 'arner, 6 Watts & S. (Pa.) 469.
But it is maintained that, even if that deed had been recorded, the appellant would not thereby be charged with
constructive notice. The record does not show that Brown's
title to the lots which the company subsequently owned was
acquired by the deed or conveyance which passed the title
to those he conveyed to secure the appellant. SP far as the
record shows, the parcels of ground came to Brown by different chains of title. But the appellant is not charged with
constructive notice of any conveyance by Brown, unless it be
in the chain of its title. Green v. Rarnage, 18 Ohio, 429;
Boggs v. Varner, 6 Watts & S. (Pa.) 469; Guion v. Kna1pp;
6 Paige, Ch. 42; Chase v. Woodbury, 6 Cush. (Mass.) 143;
Hamilton v. Royse, 2 Sch. & Lef. 326.
Those courts which favor the rule that charges the lien on
the several parcels of land in the inVerse order of their alienation, rest their argument on the fact that the purchaser paid
full consideration for the title, and received a general warranty
deed. Bradley v. George, 2 Allen (Mass.), 392; Wallace v.
Stevens, 64 Me. 225.
But a beneficiary, under a deed of trust, does not occupy
this position, for he does not pretend to pay a full price for
the property, and the trustee only receives a conveyance of

Oct. 1879.]

SAVINGS BANK V. CRESWELL.

the grantor's then interest in the land. Such a deed only
operates by way of estoppel against the grantor, and does not
profess to pass an absolutely perfect title, and for full value.
In such cases the pro rata rule has been held to apply, even if,
in the same jurisdiction, the opposite rule would hold in cases
of warranty deeds. Ely v. Perrine, 2 N. J. Eq. 396; Pancoast v. Duval, 26 id. 445.
He who seeks to enforce an equitable right, especially if he
appeals to the chancellor to grant him a mere benevolence,
must allege in his bill all the facts necessary to make out his
title to relief, and must show affirmatively that it would be
equitable, in relation to all the parties, to afford him the relief
asked. Cases supra; Tomlinson v. Meiaig, 5 Gill (Md.), 276;
Orris v. .Yewell, 17 Conn. 100; Bidgway v. Toram, 2 Md. Ch.
308; Dorr v, Shaw, 4 Johns. Ch. 17; Sterlinq v. Brightbill,
5 Watts, 229, 231-233.
If the equities of the case are considered, complainants are
not entitled to the relief which they seek, not having brought
themselves fully within the rule on which they rely.
Both the complainants and the appellant are charged with
constructive notice of the judgment lien, if either is. In this
respect their claims are equally meritorious, for each purchased under a misapprehension of facts. The contracts
were of the same character and for the same purpose, and
the appellant had no notice of the conveyance now set up
by the complainants.
But when the bill was filed in this cause the appellant
had already seized, by an execution issued on the paramount
judgment, a portion of the property now claimed by complainant.
Where the equities are balanced, the legal course of an
execution is not to be disturbed. Miller v. Jacobs, 3 Watts
(Pa.), 437. It is well settled that where parties have an
equal claim to the consideration of the chancellor, the law
will be allowed to take its course. Zeigler v. Louk, 2 id. 206 ;
Erbs's Appeal, 2 Pearson & Watts, 296; 3MeGinnis's Appeal,
16 Pa. St. 445 ; Wallace's .Estate,59 id. 401 ; Withers v. Carter,
4 Gratt. (Va.) 407.
Inasmuch, therefore, as the complainants have not alleged

SAVINGS BANK v. CRESWELL.

[Sup. C

nor established the necessary jurisdictional facts, nor brought
themselves within the rule of which they claim the benefit,
nor established any equity which is so far superior to appellant's as to justify the court in interfering with a legal execution, the bill should be dismissed.
It is submitted that, even if the court below had the power
to grant the complainants any portion of the relief prayed, it
erred in the extent of that relief; for the complainants show
no title to the land conveyed to the appellant before filing the
bill, and the appellant asks no relief whatever.
Hr. Enoch Totten, contra.
The question arising in the case is, whether or not the judgment now owned and held by the National Savings Bank can
be collected out of the property conveyed to the Freedman's
Savings and Trust Company, until all the other property bound
by the judgment arnd owned by Brown at the date of the sale
to the company shall have been first sold and the proceeds
applied to the payment of the judgment.
The lots bound by this judgment, and subsequently mortgaged or sold by Brown at different times to .different persons, are chargeable in the inverse order of their alienation ;
that is to say, the parcels last sold are to be charged to their
full value, and then go backwards until the judgment shall have
been fully paid.
This doctrine is now fully established in this country. It
was firmly settled in Cloweas v. Dickinson, 5 Johns. (N. Y.)
Ch. 285; s. c. 9 Cow. (N. Y.) 403. See also Crill v. Lyon,
1 Johns. (N. Y.) Ch. 447; Sturtevant v. Hall, 2 Barb. (N. Y.)
Ch. 151. It has been followed in nearly all the States in the
Union where the question has arisen. Shannon v. 21arselis,
Sax. (N. J.) 413; Shepherd v. Adams, 32 Me. 63; Holden v.
Pike, 24 id. 427; Cushing v. Ayre, 25 id. 383; Com. Bank v.
Western Res. Bank, 11 Ohio, 444; Cummnqs v. Cummings,
3 Ga. 460; Pallenv. Agricultural Bank, 1 Freem. (Miss.) Ch.
419; s. c. 8 Smed. & M. 357; Gist v. Pressley,- 2 i1l
(S. C.), Ch. 318; Stoney v. Shultz, 1 id. 500; Bank v. Howard, 1 Strobh. (S. C.) 173; Tfright v. Atkinson, 3 Sneed
(Tenn.), 585; Conrad v. Harrison, 3 Leigh (Va.), 532;
_man v. Lyman, 32 Vt. 79. See also 2 Lead. Cas. in Eq

Oct. 1879.]

SAVINGS

BANK V. CRESWELL.

(Am. notes) 237; Cary v. .Folsom, 14 Ohio, 365; Gates v.
Adams, 24 Vt. 70; Watson v. Barr, 7 Md. 117; Hamilton v.
Sewehr, 34 id. 107; Titus v. State, 17 Wis. 248; Wynn
v. Carter, 20 id. 107; Hurd v. .Eaton, 22 I1. 122; Orvis v.
Powell, 98 U. S. 176. For a list of cases and remarks on this
doctrine see 2 Lead. Cas. in Eq. (1877), pt. 1, p. 291.
Mr. Justice Story, in his learned work on Equity Jurisprudence, inclines to doubt the justice of the doctrine as established
in America, and seems to prefer the doctrine which charges
the original incumbrance ratably upon the land of subsequent
purchasers. He says the doctrine has been so "asserted in the
ancient as well as the modem English cases on the subject."
2 Story, Eq., sect. 1233 b. He cites Averall v. Wade (11 Eng.
Oh. 252), as an authority sustaining this view. Upon an examination of that case it will be found that it sanctions the
American rule as above laid down. .Hamiltonv. Royse (2 Sch.
& Lef. 315) is to the same effect. See Cowden's Eistate, 1 Pa.
St. 267.
Where an individual, owning two or more pieces of land
bound by a personal judgment against him, sells a part of
them, it is well settled as a rule of equity that the part
retained shall be primarily chargeable with the debt. 2 Story,
Eq., supra. It is clearly right and just, that on his alienation of a part the remainder should become immediately
burdened with the entire debt. He cannot escape from the
rule, and, in order to pay the judgment, enforce contribution against his vendee. This is conceded in all the cases.
How, then, can he sell to a third person a privilege or right
which he himself does not possess? The second purchaser
"sits in the seat of his vendor," has precisely the same
rights, and incurs the same obligations. Clowes v. Dickinson,
supra. The judgment was notice to the world, and every
purchaser or mortgagee was bound to ascertain what lands
the debtor had alienated subsequently to its rendition. Every
conveyance by Brown of land bound by the judgment directly and materially affected the lots wheieof he retained the
ownership, by releasing from the lien the parcels so conveyed, and transferring a corresponding additional burden to
the remainder of them.

SAVINGS BANK V. CRESWELL.

[Sup. Ct.

The deed of trust was in effect a mortgage, and every subsequent mortgagee was bound to take notice of its registration
in the proper office.. Lyman v. Lyman, 32 Vt. 81.
A judgment of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia binds the defendant's lands. Tayloe v. Thompson's Lessee,
5 Pet. 358.
it. JuSTICE MILLiER delivered the opinion of the court.
Samuel P. Brown, being seised in fee of a large number of
lots constituting the subdivision of a tract of land into the
town of Mount Pleasant, had a judgment rendered against him,
March 3, 1870, in favor of one Jolly, for the sum of $4,694.05,
in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, and the lots
being within the District, the judgment became from that day
a lien on them. On the twentieth day of June of that year,
Air. Brown borrowed of the Freedman's Savings and Trust Coinpany the sum of $10,000, and executed to Daniel L. Eaton a
deed of trust conveying a part of the lots owned by him in
Mount Pleasant as security for the repayment of the loan.
Under this deed of trust the lots were sold and bought in for
the Freedman's Bank, and they have resold several of them
and guaranteed the title to the purchasers.
A few months after the execution of the deed of trust above
mentioned by Brown, he began to borrow money from the
National Savings Bank, the appellant in this case, and gave
deeds of trust on other lots in the same subdivision to secure
the payment of these loans. In July, 1874, the National Savings Bank, fearing the loss of their security by the judgment
against Brown of March 3, 1870, purchased that judgment,
and ordered an execution to be issued on it, which was levied
on the lots conveyed to Eaton for the benefit of the Freedman's
Bank. That bank having passed into the .control of Creswell
and others, as commissioners appointed to wind up its affairs,
they brought the present bill in chancery to release those lots
from sale under that execution.
The court granted such relief as is authorized by the principle that where real estate is subjected to a lien in the bands
of its owner, and he sells or mortgages separate parcels of that
property subsequently to different persons, and at different

Oct. 1879.]

SAVINGS BANK V. CRESWELL.

times, these .parcels shall be subjected to payment of the lien
in the inverse order of their alienation.
The facts show that the conveyances to secure the savings
bank were made subsequently to that made to secure the
Freedman's Bank, and if the rule we have mentioned be a
sound one, and there be no special reason to exempt this case
from its operation, the Freedman's Bank was entitled to have
the lots conveyed to the savings bank applied to the extent
of their value in payment of the judgment, before their lots
could be subjected to that payment.
There are one or two matters relied on by appellant to take
this case out of the rule.
1. It is said that appellant had no actual notice of the deed
of trust to Eaton when it took its mortgages, and a large part
of the argument of counsel is devoted to this subject. But
it does not appear that appellant in its answer set up the defence of a hona fide purchaser without notice, nor that any such
question was raised in the court below. The main foundation
of the suggestion, however, namely, that there is no evidence
that the deed to Eaton was recorded, which appeared to be so
by tlbe transcript, is removed by the production of the original
deed, having on it the certificate of the register of deeds, that
it was properly recorded. This removes the foundation of the,
argument, and it must fail.
Another objection is that the appellant sets out in its answer that other persons had bought lots of Brown, after the
rendition of the judgment, and were proper parties to'this suit,
and that as the complainants failed to bring them before the
court, the decree in their favor is erroneous, and must be re.
versed for that reason.
But while the answer says that, as the appellant is informed
and believes, there was a considerable amount of other property
than that described in the bill, owned by said Brown, and subject to the lien of the judgment, which was sold and conveyed
by him after his conveyance to secure the debt of the appellant, it does not describe the property or name the purchasers
or fix the date of their purchases.
As the purchases are said to be subsequent to the creation of
appellant's lien, it was the interest of appellant to set out the

SAYINGS BANK V. CRESWELL.

[Sup. Ct.

facts necessary to enable the complainants to bring them before
the court. Nothing in the decree as rendered prevents defendant from selling these lots under his execution. The complainants, therefore, were not bound to hunt up the parties
and the transactions to which appellant merely alludes in such
vague and indefinite terms.
Lastly, the ap'pellant argues that the subjection of the property covered by the lien of the judgment to its satisfaction, in
the inverse order of its alienation, is not the prevailing rule in
courts of equity, nor the rule of property in the District of
Columbia.
Though the attention of counsel was directed during the
argument to the production of any authoritative decision of
the courts of the District or of Maryland which would be
conclusive of the question, 3ione could be found, after several days' opportunity for examination. The decree before us
must rest on the general equity doctrine, if it be sustained
at all.
The question is'also a new one in this court, for Orvis v.
Powell (98 U. S. 176) was decided on the ground that the
principle having become a rule of property in Illinois, would
be followed by us in reference to lands in that State. And
Hughes v. -Edwards (9 Wheat. 490) does not raise the question before us now, much less decide it. That was merely a
question whether improvements constructed on the land after
the execution of the mortgage became subject toits operation.
The proposition we are called on to consider is one on which
the authorities, though numerous, are by no means in harmony.
Mr. Justice Story, in his work on Equity (vol. ii. sect. 1233 6),
approves the rule, so far as any of the property subject to the
lien remains in the hands of the party against whom the lien
was first established, but he says there is great reason to doubt
whether it can be applied as between subsequent purchasers
from that party, when it has been alienated at different times
nd to several persons. " On the contrary," he says, in such
case 1" there seems strong ground to contend that the original
incumbrance or lien ought to be borne ratably between them,
according to the relative value of the estates. And so the doc-

Oct. 1879.1

SAVINGS BANK v. CRESWELL.

trine has been asserted in the ancient as well as the modern
English cases on the subject."
The older cases cited for this proposition scarcely sustain it.
In Sir Williarn Herbert's Case (3 Coke, 11), it was resolved
that "if A. be seised of three acres, and acknowledge a recognizance or statute, and enfeoff B. of one acre, and C. of another
acre, and the third descends to his heir, and if execution be
sued out against the heir he shall not have contribution against
the purchasers, for the heir sits in the seat of his ancestor."
Among them is also Lanoy v. The Duke and Duchess of Athol
(2 Atk. 444), in which Lord Hardwicke says: " Suppose a
person who has two real estates, mortgages both to one person,
and afterwards only one estate to a second mortgagee, who had
no notice of the first; the court, in order to relieve the second
mortgagee, have directed the first to take his satisfaction out
of that estate only which is not in mortgage to the second
mortgagee, if that is sufficient to satisfy the first mortgage, in
order to make room for the second mortgagee, even though the
estates descended to two different persons." This seems to be
a pretty clear statement of the rule adopted in many of the
States of the Union at the present day, though based rather
upon the principle applicable to marshalling assets, that he
who has a right to resort to two funds, in one of which alone
another party has a subsidiary lien, shall be compelled to exhaust the one to which the other cannot resort before coming
upon the one in which they both have an interest, than on the
ground now relied on in the courts of this country.
That ground is that the first purchaser has a right to suppose
that the part of the mortgaged property which he leaves with
the mortgagor will in his hands be first subjected to the payment of the mortgage he has made. To this Judge Story
assents. But the principle goes further, and holds that when a
second purchaser from the mortgagor buys either all or a part
of the incumbered property which remains, he cannot place
himself in a better position than his grantor, and revive the
burden on the first purchaser's land, from which it had been
wholly or partially relieved by its primary pressure on the land
left by him in the hands of the mortgagor.
No very clear decision of the question seems to have been
voL. x.

41

SAYINGS BANK V. CRESWELL.

[Sup. Ct.

rendered in the English courts on the subject, though occasionally alluded to, until the case of Averill v. Wade, decided in
the Irish Chancery by Lord Chancellor Sugden in 1835, whose
great authority in all that concerned titles to real estate will
not be disputed. Looking to the question as governed by the
doctrine of marshalling assets, he appears to decide against its
application in cases like the one now before us, and refers to
an opinion of Lord Eldon in 8 Vesey, 382, in which, while this
point was not directly in issue, the argument of that eminent
chancellor leaned that way.
But while these latter are authorities of great weight, it is
to be remembered that they were made long after the time to
which this court has looked to the English chancery practice
as governing ours, while the case of Sir William Herbert, and
Lord Hardwicke's decision, were before; and that the English
courts have not considered, as far as we know, the principle on
which the rule is based in this country.
That principle was stated by Chancellor Kent, with his usual
force and clearness, in 1821, in ClQwes v. Dickenson (5 Johns.
(N. Y.) Ch. 235),-which has become the leading case on the
subject in this country.
After referring to the case of Sir William Herbert, he says:
"This case settles the question as. between the vendor and
purchaser, or the heirs of the vendor and the purchaser; and if
there be several purchasers in succession, at different times, I
apprehend in that case also there is no equality and no contribution as between these purchasers. Thus, for instance, if
there be a judgment against a person owning at the time three
acres of land, and he sells one acre to A., the two remaining
acres are first chargeable in equity with the payment of the
judgment debt, as we have already seen, whether the land be
in the hands of the debtor himself or of his heirs. If he sells
another acre to B., the remaining acre is then chargeable in the
first instance with the debt as against B., as well as against A.,
'.nd if it should prove insufficient, then the acre sold to B. ought
to supply the deficiency in preference to the acre sold to A. ;
because, when B. purchased, he took his land chargeable with
the debt in the hands of the debtor, in preference to the land
-already sold to A. In this respect we may say of him as it is

Oct. 1879.]

SAvINGs BANK

V. CRESWELL.

said of the heir, he sits in the seat of is grantor,and must take
it with all its equitable burdens; it cannot be in the power of
the debtor, by the act of assigning or selling his remaining land
to throw the burden of the judgment or a ratable part of it back
upon A." The doctrine and the reason upon which it is founded
cannot be better stated than in this extract from the opinion.
We may, as an additional reason, suggest a principle often
called into action in recent times in the courts; namely, that
where one of two innocent persons must suffer a loss, it should
fall on him who by reasonable diligence or care could have protected himself, rather than on him who could not. In the case
supposed, the second purchaser, at the time of his purchase,
knowing that the land which he buys is subject to the incumbrance before that already sold, can exact of the vendor security
or protection against the incumbrance, which it is out of the
power of the first vendor to do at the time his risk is increased
by the very act of the second purchaser.
Since the decision in the case of Clowes v. Dickenson, the
doctrine there announced has been followed by much the larger
number of courts of the different States, though there are a few
of very high authority which have held that as between vendees of land subject to a prior incumbrance, equality is justice,
and the debt shall bear equally upon all the parcels originally
subject to it, in proportion to their values.
The cases are collected in the briefs of counsel on both sides
in this case, to which reference is here made as they will be
given by the reporter, and in Leading Cases in Equity, vol. ii.
part 1, p. 291, edition of 1877.
We are of opinion that the preponderance of authority as
shown by judicial decisions, as well as the weight of sound
argument, is in favor of the rule laid down by Chancellor Kent,
and the decree in this case is accordingly
Affrmed.

