MEEKS V. OLPHERTS.

[Sup. Ct.

MEEKS V. OLPHERTS.
1. The statute of California which provides that no action for the recovery of
real estate sold by order of a probate court "shall be maintained by any
heir or other person claiming under the intestate," unless brought within
three years after such sale, applies to the administrator who made the sale
as well as to the heirs.
2. When by lapse of time the action is barred against him, it is also barred
against them, because the right of possession is, by the law of California, in
him, and he represents their interests.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Distrit of California.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. IMontgomery Blair for the plaintiff in error.
Mr.S. H. Wilson, contra.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was brought, Sept. 80, 1872, by Meeks against
Olpherts and others to recover possession of a hundred-vara
lot in the city of San Francisco.
On a stipulation waiving a jury, the case was submitted to
the court, which, on its findings of fact incorporated in this
record, further found as a conclusion of law that the plaintiff's
action was barred by sect. 190 of the Probate Act of California.
Judgment was rendered for the defendants. Meeks sued out
this writ of error.
The material facts in the case are few and easily understood.
George Harlan died intestate July 8, 1850, seised of the title
to"the lot in question, except as that title may have been nominally in the United States. By the act of Congress of 1864
his title was confirmed, and it inured to the benefit of any one
rightfully holding under him.
On the 19th of August, 1850, Henry 0. Smith was duly
appointed administrator of Harlan's estate, and having afterwards resigned, Benjamin Aspinall was appointed in his place,
June 15, 1855.
On the seventh day of January, 1856, Aspinall, by an order

Oct. 18T9]

MEEKS V. OLPHERTS.

of the Probate Court, sold the lot in question, with many others.
Under this sale the defendants, or those under whom they
claim, entered into possession, which they have held uninterruptedly to the present time. Aspinall remained administrator until May 12, 1864, when he settled up his accounts and
was discharged. Joel Harlan and Lucien B. Huff, appointed
in his place, are now administrators.
On the 6th of November, 1869, an order of distribution of
the estate was made-in the Probate Court, by which th&-lot in
question was distributed to plaintiff. To this proceeding no
objection is made as to its regularity.
It will thus be seen that the defendants had purchased the
lot in controversy at a sale ordered by the Probate Court, and
had paid their money for it, and been in the peaceable adverse
possession of it since 1856, a period of sixteen years; and the
court held that, whether the probate sale was valid so as to
confer title or not, the Statute of Limitations applicable to such
cases was a bar to plaintiff's right of recovery.
As the only question in the case is the one thus stated by
the Circuit Court, and as the Supreme Court of California had
decided that the probate sale was invalid and conferred no title,
we proceed to examine the defence of the statute.
The special statute of limitations of three years, contained
in the Probate Act of California, is as follows: ' SECT. 190. No action for the recovery of any estate sold by
an executor or administrator, under the provisions of this chapter,
shall be maintained by any heir or other person claiming under the
deceased testator or intestate, unless it be commenced within three
years next after the sale.
"SECT. 191. The preceding section shall not apply to minors or
others, under any legal disability to sue at the time when the right
of action shall first accrue; but all such persons may commence
such action at any time within three years after the removal of tho
disability."

As the plaintiff in this case claims title as heir and by purchase from other heirs of the decedent, and brings his suit
sixteen years after an administrator's sale sanctioned by a
probate court, it would seem at first blush that the case came
within the provision of the first section.

MEEKS V. OLPHERTS.

[Sup. (it

Counsel for plaintiff, however, has argued with much earnestness and force 1. That no suit could be brought by the heirs, or any one
claiming through, them, until the order of distribution was
made, because until that time, or until administration was
closed, the right of possession was in the administrator.
2. That until then the heirs were under a disability, which
by sect. 191 protected their right of action from the operation
of sect. 190.
The first proposition, and, indeed, the argument of the learned
counsel, concedes, that by virtue of the statutes of California
the real estate of a person dying intestate comes to the possession afid control of his administrator as personal property does,
and that while the administrator can only sell real estate upon
an order of the Probate Court, the possession and control, the
perception of the rents and profits, and the right to sue to
recover possession of it when held adversely, belongs solely to
the administrator. Indeed, a section or two of the Probate Act,
which we copy, makes this very plain.
"SECT. 114. The executor or administrator shall have the right
to the possession of all the real as well as the personal estate of the
deceased, and may receive the rents and profits of the real estate,
until the estate shall be settled, or until delivered over by the
order of the Probate Court to the heirs or devisees, and shall keep
in good tenantable repairs all houses, buildings, and fixtures thereon
which are under his control."
"SECT. 195. Actions for the recovery of any property, real or
personal, orfor the possession thereof,and all actions founded upon
contracts, may be maintained by and against exeec'tors and administrators,in all cases in which the same might have been maintained
by or against their respective testators or intestates."

And by section 194 of the Probate Act of California the
administrator is again required to "take into his possession all
the estate of the deceased, real and personal."
While it must be conceded that no right of action existed in
the heirs of Harlan until the order of distribution, the reason
of this is that the right of action to recover possession of the
lots wrongfully held under the invalid probate sale was in the
administrator. He was the representative of the rights of

Oct. 1879.]

MEEKS V. OLPHERTS.

the heirs and of the creditors of the estate, and as such had
the same power to sue for and recover the lot as if he had
been the intestate himself. Not only was it his right, but it.
was his exclusive right and his duty. For any failure to perform this duty he laid himself liable to the heirs, or any one
else injured by that failure.
Nor can it be said that either this right or this duty to sue
for and recover possession of the lot was lost or abridged by
his sale as administrator to the defendants. Instances are
numerous of persons making sales that are invalid, avoiding
them by the very act of bringing an action of ejectment. Such
are the cases of infants and married women who have made
conveyances and received the consideration, whose acts are
void or voidable by reason of infancy or of defective acknowl
edgments of the deeds.
There was, then, up to the date of the order of distribution,
or until it was barred by the statute, a right in the administrator of the estate of Harlan to sue for and recover the possession
sought in the present action.
This being so, it is not easy to perceive why that right of
action was not barred in three years from Jan. 7, 1856, the
day on which defendants purchased and took possession. This
would make the bar complete Jan. 7, 1859. During all that
time Aspinall was administrator and for five years afterwards,
and nothing obstructed his legal right to sue for and recover
the possession. Nor is the case otherwise if the right of action
began with the relinquishment of title by the act of Congress
of 1864.
It is argued, however, that sect. 190 does not apply to
suits brought by the administrator, and, therefore, the statute
does not run against the right of action while it remains in
him.
The argument is that the language used, namely, "no such
action shall be maintained by any heir, or other person claiming under the deceased testator or intestate," means by an heir
or one holding under the heir, and that the words "other per
son" do not include the administrator.
Put no sufficient reason is to be found wby it should not.
If the administrator can by such an action avoid his own irrega.

MEEKS V. OLPHERTS.

[Sup. Ct.

lar or void sale, the reason for limiting the time within which
it should be done by him is as strong, or perhaps stronger,
than it is against another.
It is as important to the purchaser for whose benefit the
statute was enacted, that he should be protected against the
administrator as against the heirs. The words "other person"
mean some one other than the heirs, and instead of meaning
some one like the heirs or claiming under the heirs, the words
expressly refer to some one "claiming under the deceased
These last words are unnecessary in
testator or intestate."
reference to heirs, for they can claim in no other way but under
the intestate. The words "other person," therefore, almost of
necessity refer to the administrator, for they can refer to no
one but the heirs or some one-claiming under them, or to the
administrator.
He is, therefore, within the spirit and the literal meaning of
that section, and the bar is good against him. This was decided in the case of Harlan J Huff v. Peck, in the Supreme
Court of California, 33 Cal. 515. Harlan and Peck, as we
have already seen, were the successors of Smith and of Aspinall
as administrators of George Harlan's estate. They brought
suit to recover one of the lots sold by Aspinall at the same
time with the sale in question in this case. The defendants
relied on the sale and the limitation of sect. 190 of the Probate
Act. The court below gave judgment for plaintiffs ; but the
Supreme Court, while it held the sale void, reversed the judgment, on the ground that this statute of 'imitations barred the
administrator. This is a construction of the statute by the
highest court of the State.
The legal disability mentioned in sect. 191 manifestly has
'reference to a well-known class of persons in whom a right to
redress exists', but who for, special reasons are incapable of
acting for themselves; such as infancy, coverture, and the like.
Whatever is a disability under the general statute of limitations
is a disability under this statute. Sect. 352 of the Code of
Civil Procedure of California describes this class, among which
are minors,femes covert, insane persons, and persons imprisoned,
and it describes them as persons entitled to bring an action.
The disability cannot have reference to a person in whom no

Oct. 1879.]

MEEKS V. OLPHERTS.

right of action exists. Such use of the term "disability" is
without support in reason or precedent.
The right of action on the title which the plaintiff nowv asserts
was in the administrator, and the statute, therefore, ran against
him and against all whose rights he represented. "In all suits
for the benefit of the estate he represents both the creditors
and the heirs," said the Supreme Court in Beckett v. Selover,
7 Cal. 215.
Whatever doubt may have existed at one time on the subject,
there remains none at the present day, that whenever the right
of action in the trustees is barred by the Statute of Limitations,
the right of cestui que trust thus represented is also barred.
This doctrine is clearly stated in Hill on Trustees, 267, 403,
504, and the authorities there cited fully sustain the text, both
English and American.
Among those specially applicable to this case are Smilie v.
.Biffe, 2 Pa. St. 52; Couch's H'irs v. Couch's Administrator,
9 B. Mon. (Ky.) 160; Rosson v. Anderson, id. 423; Darnall
v. Adams, 13 id. 273.
In the first of these cases, land was devised to executors, with
a power of sale, which was imperfectly executed, by one of the
executors alone. The legatee brought suit against the purchaser, and was held to be barred by the Statute of Limitations.
After referring to the old opinion, and expressing surprise that
it should ever have been entertained, and showing how it was
overruled by Lord Hardwicke in Lewellen v. Mackworth (2 Eq.
Cas. Abr. 579), the court says: "Therefore, where cestui que
trust and trustees are both out of possession, for the time limited,
the party in possession has a good title against both. By the
terms of the will, the trustee had the right to enter on the land,
to take the rents, issues, and profits, and apply the same to the
separate use of Jane Craig, the testator's daughter, during her
natural life, with power to sell the fee-simple and appropriate
the interest of the purchase-money to her use, and after her
death to be paid to certain legatees, of whom the present plaintiff was one. The property was sold in the lifetime of Jane
Craig; but the sale was the act of but one of the trustees, and
it is contended that the execution of the joint trust must be
the act of all. In this respect, the title of Nicholson, the pur-

MEEKS V. OLPHERTS.

(Sup. Ct.

chaser, is manifestly defective. But Nicholson took possession
of the premises in pursuance of the contract, and held the same
for upwardsof twenty-one years. He, therefore, held adversely
to both cestui que trust and trustee, and consequently obtained
by the Statute of Limitations an indefeasible title, which cannot
now be disturbed or gainsaid."
In the case of Rosson v. Anderson (8upra), the question related to the title of slaves conveyed by a father to a trustee
for his daughters. The trustee did not accept the trust, nor
were the-slaves ever delivered by the donor.
One of the granddaughters, after her father's death, which
occurred while she was a minor, brought suit for the slaves, and
was met by a plea of the Statute of Limitations, to which she
replied her infancy. The court held that the right of action,
on the death of her father, iested in his execufors, and, as
more than five years bad elapsed after they bad qualified as
such, the statute was a bar against them, and as they would
have been barred by the statute, so was the heir, though a
minor when the cause of action accrued.
In Darnall v. Adams (supra), which concerned a devise of
slaves, the same court held that the disability of coverture in
the devisee could not prevent the running of the Statute of
Limitations in favor of an adverse possession against the executor, and that it was well settled that the claim of the devisee
is, under such circumstances, barred by the lapse of time which
bars the executor. Coleman v. Walker, &e., 3 Mete. (Ky.) 65,
and .Edwards v. Foolfolk's Administrator, 17 B. Mon. (Ky.)
376, are cases which assert the same doctrine, and in the latter
the principle is fully and ably discussed and its soundness well
maintained.
A very strong case of the same character is that of Croxall
v. Skerrard (5 Wall. 268), where a remainder-man was held
barred by the Statute of Limitations of New Jersey, on account
of the number of years of possession of defendant under purchase from the holder of the estate for life, all of which had
elapsed during that life. This was held to be a bar, though
the remainder-man brought suit immediately on the death of
his ancestor. This was, however, based on the peculiar wording of that statute.

Oct. 1879.]

MONTGOMERY V. SAWYER.

In CuningTam v. Asley (45 Cal. 485), it was held that an
administrator, who is a party to a suit which involves the title
of his intestate to real estate, represents the title which the
deceased had at the time of his death, and the judgment in
such action concludes the adverse party and the heirs of the
intestate. And such judgment is an estoppel as to the title
set up in the action.
On the whole, we are of opinion, both upon sound principles
of construction, as well as upon the decisions of the Supreme
Court of California construing the statute of the State, that
the Circuit Court was justified in holding that the plaintiffs
were barred by the adverse possession of defendants.
Judgment affirmed.

MONTGOMERY V. SAWYER.
In Louisiana, if a person dies pending suit against him, and the proceedings are
continued by his heirs becoming parties, the judgment should be against his
succession or them; if, without reference to the revival of the suit, it be
entered only against the deceased co nornine, and be so recorded, it is as a
judicial mortgage void against third persons.

from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
APPEAL

21r. Benjamin P. Jonas, AIr. Henry B. Kelly, and Mr. Henry
L. Lazarus for the appellants.
21r. Joseph B. Hornor, contra.
MR.JUSTICE, BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.

The controversy in this case relates to a certain plantation
in the parish of Plaquemines, called the "New Hope or Cedar
Grove Plantation." The appellee, Sawyer, claims it as purchaser at sheriff's sale under a judgment rendered in February,
1872, by the Fifth District Court of Orleans, at the suit of one
James E. Zunts against William and Haywood Stackhouse.
The appellant claims under a mortgage executed in 1878, by

