HOLDEN v. TRUST Co.

72

HlOwIsE

V. TRtST'Com&YA

[Sup. Ct.
.

1. In the District of Columbia, the legal rate of interest is six per cent per
annum, but parties may, in writing, stipulate for any other rate not exceed
ing ten.
2. Where a party made there his promissory note, whereby he promised to pay
a certain sum therein named, "with ten per cent interest,"-IHdd, that
interest should be computed at that rate up to the maturity of the note,
and thereafter at six per cent.

APPEAL from th-' Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. William A. Meloy for the appellant.

fr. Enoch Totten and Mr. Thomas H. Talbot for the appellee.
MR.JUSTICE SWAYE delivered the opinion of the court.
This record presents no ground for controversy as to the
facts, and only one legal point that requires consideration.
But for the importance of that point as a matter of local law
we should dispose of the case without a formal opinion.
On the 13th of October, 1870, at the city of Washington,
Charles H. Holden, the appellant, made his promissory note of
that date to John B. Wheeler, or order, for $5,000; payable
four years from date at the Bank of Washington, with interest
at the rate of ten per cent, payable semi-annually. On the
same day he executed to David L. Eaton a deed of trust of
certain property in the city of Washington, to secure the payment of the principal and interest of the note as they should
respectively fall due. On the 19th of October, 1870, Wheeler
indorsed and delivered the note to the appellee, Talbot, who
paid him at the time, as the consideration of the transfer, the
sum of $5,000. Talbot thereupon became a bona fide holder of
the instrument. On the 28th of July, 1873, he .executed to
his co-appellee -the

Savings and Trust Company

-

his prom-

issory note for $1,500, payable at ninety days, and pledged the
note of Holden as collateral security. Talbot's note is still
unpaid. The interest on Holden's note was paid up to the
13th of April, 1873, and $75 on account of interest was paid
subsequently. The principal and the residue of the interest
are unpaid. Eaton, the trustee in the deed of trust, died on

Oct, 1879.]

HOLDEN v. TRUST Co.

the 13th of February, 1873. On the 30th of September, 1871,
Holden conveyed the trust premises to John Chester, one of
the defendants. This bill was filed on the 18th of November,
1874. It prayed that a trustee should be appointed in place
of Eaton; that the successor so appointed'should -be directed
to execute the trust; and for general relief. The court below
found, among other things, that Holden was indebted to Talbot
on the note in the sum of $5,000, "with interest thereon at the
rate of ten per cent per annum from the 13th of April, 1873,
less the sum of $75," and that the Savings and Trust Company
had a lien on the debt for $1,500, and interest from April 13,
1875. It was decreed that a new trustee should be, and he
was thereby, appointed, and that in default of payment of the
amount due from Holden, and the costs, the trustee should
proceed to sell the premises described in the deed of trust, &c.
From this decree Holdef appealed to this court.
The note of Holden, including days of grace, matured on
the 16th of October, 1874. Up to that time there can be no
doubt that the rate of interest to be paid was that called for
by the note. But what is the rate chargeable thereafter?
The court below allowed continuously the rate expressed in
the note. Was this correct? This is the question we are
called upon to decide.
The subject of interest in its historical aspect was considered by this court in National Bank of the Commonwealth v.
.echanc's National Bank, 94 .U.S. 4,37.
The statutory provisions relating to interest in the District
of Columbia are as follows :1. The rate of six per cent per axiAum is allowed upon all
moneys due, -where there is no contraca upon the subject.
2. Parties may stipulate in writing for ten per cent per annum, or any less rate.
3. If more than ten per cent is taken upon any contract, all
the interest received may be recovered back, if it be sued for
within a year.
The rule heretofore applied by this court, under the circumstances of this case, has been to give the contract rate up to
the maturity of the contract, and thereafter the rate prescribed
for cases where the parties themselves have fixed no rate.

'OLDEN v. TRUST Co.

Lsup. Ct.

Brewster v. Walcefield, 22 How. 118; Bernldzel v. Furman, 22
Wall. 170. Where a different rule has been established, it
governs, of course, in that locality. The question is always
one of local law.
This subject was fully examined in the recent case in this
court of Cromwell v. County of Sac, 94 U. S. 851. We need
not go over the same ground again.
Here the agreement of the parties extends no further than
to the time fixed for the payment of the principal. As to
every thing beyond that it is silent. If payment be not made
when the money becomes due, there is a breach of the contract,
and the creditor is entitled to damages. Where none has been
agreed upon, the law fixes the amount according to the standard
applied in all such cases. It is the legal rate of interest where
the parties have agreed upon none... If the parties meant that
the contract rate should continue, it would have been easy to
say so. In the absence of a stipulation, such an intendment
cannot be inferred. The analogies relied upon to support a
different view are obviously distinguishable from the case in
hand.
The decree will be altered according to these views.
It appears that since this appeal was taken, Thomas J. D.
Fuller, Esq., the trustee appointed in place of Eaton, has also
died. Another trustee in his stead will be appointed here.
As modified in these two particulars, the decree will be
affirmed and remitted to the court below for 'execution; and
it is
So ordered.

