Oct. 1879.]

ARTHUR V. HEROLD.

A.RTHUR v. FIEBOLD.
In an action against a collector of customs, to recover duties alleged to have
been wrongfully exacted upon chicory imported in 1873, it was not error for
the court to charge the jury that ground chicory was the same thing as burnt
chicory, and to submit to them to determine from the evidence, as a matter of
fact, whether the imported article in question was a new preparation, gome
thing other than ground chicory.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
This was an action brought by Herold against Arthur, collector of customs of the port of New York, for an alleged illegal
exaction of a duty of five cents per pound upon chicory imported
in 1873. That duty was assessed under sect. II of the act
entitled "An Act to increase duties on imports and for other
purposes," approved June 30, 1864 (13 'Stat. 202, 212), which
provide,; a duty "on chicory root, four cents per pound; ground,
burnt or prepared, five cents per poand."
Herold claimed that the duty should have been but one cent
per pound, under sect. 1 of the act entitled "An Act to reduce
duties on imports and to reduce internal taxes and for other
purposes," approved June 6,1872 (17 Stat. 230), -which provides
that after the first day of August of that year, in lieu of the
duties theretofore imposed there shall be levied and collected
"on chicory root, ground or unground, one cent per pound."
Upon the ascertainment and liquidation of the duty, ha protested and appealed to the Secretary of the Treasury, and within
due time after an adverse decision by that officer brought this
action.
The testimony offered by the plaintiff tended to show that
the article in question was commercially known as "finely
ground chicory, in papers," or "paper chicory," and was pulverized chicory; that chicory is grown extensively in Germany, where it is largely used as a substitute for coffee. The
root, when dug from the ground, is first washed and scraped,
then split and cut by machinery into pieces or sections, which
are partially dried in the sun and then kiln-dried, -in which
latter condition it becomes an article of commerce to this coun-

ARTHUR V. IHEROLD.

[Sup. Ct.

try. Of this there are two forms, "light kiln-dried" and "extra kiln-dried" neither of which is burnt or roasted, except as
is necessarily incident to the process of kiln-drying.
The next process is burning or roasting, which is done ii
heated cylinders. It is necessarily roasted before it can be
ground. Then it is ground in mills, from which it emerges in
coarse and fine particles commingled, in which condition, or
when simply burnt or roasted, it is not an article of commerce.
The chicory is then passed through sieves, by which the coarse
and fine particles are separated from each other. The coarse
particles are packed in barrels or casks for shipment, and is
called in trade " coarsely ground" or "granulated chicory;" the
finer particles, after being again ground and reduced to powder,
are packed in small paper-bags, weighing ordinarily one-quarter
of a pound each, sometimes half a pound, which are packed in
casks. This kind is called "finely ground chicory, in papers"
or "paper chicory." Both forms are drier than the atmosphere,
and absorb moisture from it; the first more slowly than the
second, because the particles aie larger.
The casks, or paper packages, of "paper chicory "are placed
in damp cellars or vaults attached to and a part of the large
chicory manufactories, some of which are exclusively for the
manufacture of paper chicory', in order to hasten the absorption
of moisture; and in some factories the hastening of absorption
is further facilitated by allowing steam to escape into the cellars. The greater quantity of moisture in finely ground chicory
over that which is absorbed in the "granulated" makes the
paper chicory from fifteen to thirty per cent less per pound than
the "granulated."
Paper chicory, when taken out of the cellars, has the consistency of paste, and hardens as it is exposed to the air. The
granulated chicory also hardens by exposure.
The granulated chicory is usually sold by importers in this
country to coffee dealers and coffee roasters to adulterate coffee;
the paper chicory is sold exclusively to consumers, mostly Germans and Scandinavians in the Western States, who use it as a
substitute for coffee.
The defendant introduced evidence to show that the natural
absorption of moisture was hastened by artificial means; e.g.,

Oct. 1879.]

ARTHUR V. HEROLD.

by steam introduced through pipes in the vaults or cellars, and
that this operation was an essential and usual process in the
preparation of the paper chicory. On the part of the plaintiff,
evidence was offered that nothing had been done to the chicory
in these vaults, except to allow the natural absorption of moisture to take place by exposing the paper chicory to the air.
Some of the witnesses testified that paper chicory had different
traits as to taste and smell from granulated chicory.
The plaintiff gave some evidence to show that a different.
article from the imported article called "patent chicory" or
"chicory coffee" was made by an admixture of water and foreign ingredients. It was not claimed that the plaintiff's goods
contained any admixture of foreign ingredients.
At the close of the plaintiff's testimony, and also again wheit
the testimony on both'sides was completed, the defendant moved
that the court direct the jury to find a verdict for hini, which
motion the court each time denied, and he duly excepted.
The court, in its charge, stated to the jury, among other things,
that ground chicory was the same thing as burnt chicory, and
submitted to them to determine as a matter of fact whether
the chicory in question was prepared, and not simply ground,
chicory.
Defendant excepted to that part of the oharge which pointed
out that ground chicory and burnt chicory were one and the
same thing, and also to that part which stated that i't was a
question of fact instead of a question of law whether prepared
chicory was a different thing from ground chicory.
The jury found a verdict for the plaintiff, on which judgment
was entered. The defendant then sued out this *vrit.
Mr. Assistant Attorney-General Smith for the plaintiff in
error.
Mir. Stephen G. Clarke for the defendant in error.
Mn. CH1nF JUSTICE WAiTn
delivered the opinion of the
court.
We think it was not error for the court to say to the jury
that ground chicory was the same thing as burnt chicory.
The chicory root cannot- be ground until it is burned, and
burnt chicory is not an article of commerce until it is ground.

RAILWAY Co. v. TWOMBLY.

[Sup. Ot.

Whether or not the article importdd was a new preparation,
and something other than ground chicory, that is to say, whether
it was prepared chicory and not simply ground chicory, was a
question of fact that was properly left to the jury.
Judgment affirmed.

RAILWAY Co-xANY v. TWO rBLY.
1. Where a party moving for a new trial assigns as reasons therefor that tae
verdict is not sustained by the evidence, and that the court erred in giving
certain instructions and in refusing others,- Held, that, as he did not at
the time except to the ruling of the court in regard to the instructions, they
cannot be reviewed by the appellate cnurt, although they are incorpoiated
in the bill of exceptions allowed on the refusal of the court of original jurisdiction to grant a new trial.
2. The Supreme Court of the Territory of Colorado, therefore, properly held
that such a bill of exceptions only presented for review the refusal of the
District Court, on the motion for a new trial, to set aside the verdict on
the ground that it was not sustained by the evidence. Such a question
cannot be re-examined here on a writ of error.
3. The administratrix of A. recovered judgment for damages by reason of his
death, caused by the negligence of 13., who thereupon sued out of this curt
a writ of error. During its pendency, the statute authorizing such a ,uit
was repealed. Held, that the judgment was not vacated by the writ, and
that it must he affirmed, no error appearing in the proceeding,; below.

ErroR to the Supreme Court of the Territory of Colorado.
This was an action of trespass on the case, brought Aug. 30,
1873, in the District Court of the first judicial district for the
county of Arapahoe, in the then Territory of Colorado, by
Louisa Twombly, widow and adininistratrix of George W. K.
Twombly, deceased, against the Kansas Pacific Railway Company, to recover damages for his death, caused, as she alleged,
by the negligence of the agents and servants of the company,
who were charged with the control and management of a locomotive and train of cars upon its road. Plea, not guilty. The
issue was tried by a jury, and a verdict returned for the plaintiff at the April Term, 1874. A motion for a new trial, for
reasons filed therewith, was then made. It was, at the October
Term, argued and overruled, and judgment rendered; which, on

