Oct. 1879.]

MONTGOMERY V. SAWYER.

In CuningTam v. Asley (45 Cal. 485), it was held that an
administrator, who is a party to a suit which involves the title
of his intestate to real estate, represents the title which the
deceased had at the time of his death, and the judgment in
such action concludes the adverse party and the heirs of the
intestate. And such judgment is an estoppel as to the title
set up in the action.
On the whole, we are of opinion, both upon sound principles
of construction, as well as upon the decisions of the Supreme
Court of California construing the statute of the State, that
the Circuit Court was justified in holding that the plaintiffs
were barred by the adverse possession of defendants.
Judgment affirmed.

MONTGOMERY V. SAWYER.
In Louisiana, if a person dies pending suit against him, and the proceedings are
continued by his heirs becoming parties, the judgment should be against his
succession or them; if, without reference to the revival of the suit, it be
entered only against the deceased co nornine, and be so recorded, it is as a
judicial mortgage void against third persons.

from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
APPEAL

21r. Benjamin P. Jonas, AIr. Henry B. Kelly, and Mr. Henry
L. Lazarus for the appellants.
21r. Joseph B. Hornor, contra.
MR.JUSTICE, BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.

The controversy in this case relates to a certain plantation
in the parish of Plaquemines, called the "New Hope or Cedar
Grove Plantation." The appellee, Sawyer, claims it as purchaser at sheriff's sale under a judgment rendered in February,
1872, by the Fifth District Court of Orleans, at the suit of one
James E. Zunts against William and Haywood Stackhouse.
The appellant claims under a mortgage executed in 1878, by

MONTGOMEY V. SAWYER.

[Sup. Ct.

Sarah F. Brooks, widow of Haywood Stackhouse, and tutrix
of his minor heirs. It is conceded that the plantation belonged
to William and Haywood Stackhouse at the time of the latter's
death in December, 1869; and that after that it belonged to
the said William and the succession of Haywood up to and
after the time of Zunts's judgment. It is contended by the
appellants that this judgment was void as against the undivided
half of Haywood Stackhouse, because he was dead when the
judgment was rendered, and the suit, as they contend, had
never been revived against the succession of his estate.
The circumstances of the case are briefly as follows William and Haywood Stackhouse were partners owning
several plantations, and in January, 1865, to secure to Zunts
-thepayment of certain notes amounting to $50,000, executed to
him a mortgage on a plantation called the "Bellechasse Plantation." The notes not being paid, Zunts, in January, 1867,
attempted to collect the same by executory process against the
Bellechasse plantation. The Stackhouses set up a defence,
filed a counter petition, and obtained an injunction. The decision being against them, they appealed to the Supreme Court
of Louisiana, and pending this appeal, in December, 1869, as
before stated, Haywood Stackhouse died. His widow, Sarah
F. Brooks, in her own right and as tutrix of their minor children, was made a party in the cause, and the suit proceeded to
judgment, the papers being entitled, as before, in the name of
William and Haywood Stackhouse v. James E.- Zunts. In
May, 1871, the Supreme Court annulled the judgment of the
District Court, and remanded the cause for a new trial. On
the 20th of February, 1872, the District Court rendered the
judgment in question, which was entered and signed in these
words "FIFTH DISTRICT COURT FOR THE

"W. & H.

PARISH OF ORLEANS.

STACKnOUSE )

v.

No. 18,850.
)
In this case, for the reasons'assigned in the written opinion of
the court, this day delivered and on file, it is ordered, adjudged,
and decreed that there be judgment in favor of defendant; that the
injunction herein be dissolved with costs, and that the said defend.
JAMEs E. ZUNTS.

Oct. 1879.]

t8ONTGOMERY V. SAWYER.

ant, James E. Zunts, do have and recover of plaintiffs, William and
Haywood Stackhouse, and their surety in the injunction bond, in
solido,.wenty per cent damages on the amount of the judgment
herein enjoined, together with eight per cent interest as allowed in
the order of seizure and sale.
"It is further ordered that the claim for attorney's fees herein be
dismissed.
"Judgment rendered Feb. 20, 1872.
"Judgment signed March 3, 1872.
(Signed)
"CAs. LEAU-MONT,
"Judge Fifth Lstrict Court, Parishof Orleans."

A certified copy of this judgment, in the above words, was
recorded in the recorder's office of Plaquemines on the 17th of
April, 1872.
Meanwhile, the plaintiffs moved for a new trial, and that
being refused, on the 13th of March, 1872, they moved for and
obtained a suspensive appeal. The order allowing the appeal
was as follows, the appeal bond being signed by all the appellants:"W. & H. STAtKHOUSE)

v.
No. 18,850.
JArEs E. ZUNTS et al. t
"On motion of Roselius & Philips and Homer & Benedict, of
counsel for Win. Stackhouse, Sarah F. Brooks, widow in community of Haywood Stackhouse, deceased and natural tutrix of her
minor children, Herbert, Maude, Blanche, and Mabel Stackhouse,
and Lilla Stackhouse, wife of J. W. Bryant, duly authorized and
assisted by her husband, and the legal heirs of James P. Waters,
dec'd, to wit, Henrietta A. Waters, wife of William Stackhouse,
and by her husband duly assisted and authorized Mrs. Widow
Mary Upton, widow of Wheelock S. Upton, dec'd, and William H.
Waters, and on suggesting to the court that said appearers and
movers have been informed and believe that there is error to their
prejudice in the final judgment rendered in the above-entitled case
by this hon. court, on the 20th February, 1872, and that they are
desirous of appealing suspensively from the same to the Supreme
Court of the State of Louisiana, and- on showing that the clerk
requires time till the third Monday of April next to make the
transcript of appeal, it is ordered that a suspensive appeal be
accorded to said appearers and movers from said final judgment to

MONTGOMERY V. SAWYER.

[Sup. Ct.

the Supreme Court of Louisiana, the same to be therein returnable
on the third Monday of April, 1872, upon said appearers giving
bond and security conditioned according to law in the sum of
$30,000."
The cause then proceeded in the Supreme Court, entitled as
before. On the 31st of May, 1873, the court affirmed the
judgment below. A petition for a rehearing was presented in
the names of all the appellants; and, amongst other things,
stated, that pending the first appeal Haywood Stackhouse died,
and that the petitioners were made parties to the appeal by
means of an order which they recite; but that, when the cause
went back to the court below for retrial, Zunts omitted to
make the petitioners parties to the proceedings in that court,
and that they never made themselves parties by voluntary appearance by counsel or personally; that, on the contrary, the
case was proceeded with by Zunts and his counsel, and by
the former counsel of William and Haywood Stackhouse, as if
the latter were alive; and the petition, in a labored argument,
contended that the making of the petitioners parties to the ilrst
appeal did not make them parties to the subsequent proceedings. All the points taken in this suit on the subject of want
of parties were taken in the said petition for a rehearing.
On the 15th of December, 1873, the petition for rehearing
was refused, and the judgment of the District Court stood
affirmed. No notice was taken by the court of the point referred to. Whether it was regarded as untenable, or whether
the judgment was left to stand at Zunt's own risk, - good, at
all events as against William Stackhonse, - d6es not appear.
After the recording of the judgment of the District Court, to
-wit, on the 7th of May, 1872, a partition was made between
William Stackhouse and the succession of Haywood Stackhouse, of the various pieces of property belonging to the firm of
W. & H. Stackhouse, by which the Belleehasse plantation was
set off to William, subject to the Zunts's claim; and the New
Hope plantation was set off to the succession of Haywood.
On the 6th of February, 1873, Sarah F. Brooks, as widow
and tutrix as aforesaid, mortgaged the New Hope plantation
to Ernst & Co., to secure the payment of certain notes speci
fled in the mortgage.

Oct. 1879.]

MONTGOMERY

V. SAWYER.

On the 20th of January, 1875, Zunts filed a petition in the
District Court of Plaquemines for executory process against
the New Hope plantation and other property, to obtain satisfaction of the amount of damages recovered by the judgment
of Feb. 20, 1872, being 910,833.66, claiming that the same
was a judicial mortgage against all the property in the parish
belonging to William Stackhouse and the succession of Haywood Stackhouse. A writ was issued accordingly, and the said
New Hope plantation, together with certain shares of bank
stock, secured by mortgage thereon, were sold by the sheriff to
the appellee, Silas W. Sawyer, and an act of sale, dated 28th
April, 1875, was duly passed and recorded.
The appellants, Montgomery and Leng and Ogden, having
become the owners of the notes secured by the mortgage given
by Sarah F. Brooks to Ernst & Co., on the 15th of December,
1876, filed a bill in the Circuit Court of the United States
against her as widow and tutrix, and against one of the heirs
who had become of age and married, praying for the issue of
executory process for the sale of the undivided half of the New
Hope plantation belonging to the succession of Haywood
Stackhouse, conceding that Zunts's judgment was a valid judicial mortgage as against the other undivided half belonging to
William Stackhouse; and a writ of seizure and sale was issued
pursuant to the prayer of the bill.
It was to enjoin proceedings under the last-named writ, and
to establish his own title, that the appellee, Sawyer, filed the
bill in this case.
All the material facts appear from the documents submitted
by the parties, and the question is one of law alone.
From this statement it would seem to be very clear that the
widow and heirs of Haywood Stackhouse were parties to the
proceedings in which the judgment was rendered, which, therefore, might have been, though it was not, rendered against the
succession of Haywood Stackhouse jointly with William Stackhouse. But even if valid to bind said succession in any way,
the question remains as to its effect against third persons. It
is in form a judgment against William Stackhouse and another
person not in being, but who had died more than two years
before it was rendered. And in this form it was recorded. By

MONTGOMERY V. SAWYER.

[Sup. or.

the law of Louisiana a judgment, at least as to third persons.
has no effect as a judicial mortgage until it is recorded. When
recorded it has that effect against all the immovables of the
debtor sit~iated in the parish. C'.il Code, arts. 3922, 3346.
Here one of the nominal debtors against whom the judgment
was rendered was dead, and of course had no immovables to be
affected thereby. Without the existence of some very artificial
rule of procedure, it is difficult to see how such a judgment,
quoad the deceased person, or his estate in succession, can have
any binding effect without being amended.
By the common law, if a defendant died after the commencement of a term, a judgment entered against him during'the
term had relation back to the first day of the term, and was
deemed valid. This fiction was allowed to subserve the ends
of justice. But no such rul can be invoked in the present
case. Here the judgment could have no effect against the
general immovable property of the debtor-until it was recorded.
The record is all that third persons have to look to for their
protection; and in this case it only showed a judgment against
a person not in existence, and did not show a judgment against
his succession; and did not show that his representatives had
been made parties to the cause.
In Norton v. Jamison (23 La. Ann. 102), a case somewhat
similar, differing in the fgct that the heir accepted the succession purely and simply, and did not appear in the proceedings
until -after the judgment in question was entered, the Supreme
Court of Louisiana said: "If defendant die after issue joined,
his heir should be cited; until this is done, judgment cannot be
given against the succession. 5 N. S.431. A judgment against
one, who, though cited, dies before issue joined, is null. 8 An.
80. When H. R. W. Hill died, it was necessary to make the
legal representative a party, otherwise the judgment was inoperative as to either, and the recording of it created no judicial
mortgage on the property left by H. R. W. Hill. The fiction
of law or its express enactinent, by which he was a party to the
proceedings, did not make his heirs or legal representatives
parties in his person, and the insertion of the word ' heirs' in
the decree gave-no force to. the judgment against his heir and
legatee, any more than a judgment against-ny person, eo nomine,

Oct. 1879.]

MONTGOMERY V. SAWYER.

who is not cited. The subsequent appearance of J. D. Hill as
a party to the proceedings, in order to appeal from the Circuit
Court to the Supreme Court, may have made him personally
liable under the judgment rendered o4} appeal, but it could not
retroact so as to give force to the inscription of the judgment
of the District Court. Inscriptions of mortgages are strietijuris,
and must, of themselves, be complete and give all the informa
tion which the law intends is necessary for third parties. 5 N.
S. 112; 7 An. 533. The judgment recorded was against Ir.R.
W. Hill; but plaintiff alleges that H. R. W. Hill died before
the judgment was rendered. . . .The inscription does not contain the name of J. D. Hill [heir of H. R. W. Hill]. At the
time of the rendering and recording of the judgment against
H. R. W. Hill, the property did not belong to him, and no
judgment against J. D. Hill was recorded at the date of his
sale to defendant. Consequently, no judicial mortgage attached
to the property sold by J. D. Hill to the defendant by recording
the judgment in question against H. R. W. Hill, rendered after
his death."
It seems to us that the views here expressed are conclusive
so far as relates to the validity of the judgment as a judicial
mortgage operating against the appellants. Whether the judgment may not in some manner, or to some extent, be binding
against the succession of Haywood Stackhouse, it is not necessary to inquire. The difficulty consists in the fact that no
judgment has been rendered or recorded against said succession.
The mere entitling of the suit against William and Haywood
Stackhouse might not have prejudiced the effect of the judgment, had it been rendered against the proper parties. The
title of the suit is employed only for the purpose of identifi
cation of the cause. But here the judgment itself is defective.
It is conceded to be good as against the interest of William
Stackhouse; but as to third persons, at least, it is void as a
judicial mortgage against the property of Haywood Stackhouse
or his estate in succession.
It follows from this that the appellee, Sawyer, by his purchase at sheriff's sale, acquired only the undivided half interest
of William Stackhouse, and that his bill should have been
dismissed.
VOL. x.

37

DICKERSON V. COLGROVE.

[Sup. Ct.

The decree of the Circuit Court will be reversed, and the
cause remanded with directions to dismiss the bill of complaint;
and it is
So ordered.

DICKERSON V. COLGROVE.
A., the owner in fee of lands in Michigan, died in February, 1853, leaving his two
children B. and C. his only heirs-at-law. On March 3, C. and her husband
conveyed the lands by warranty deed to D., who put it upon record March 6,
1854, and entered into possession of them April 1 of that year. D. learning of
the existence of B., and that he lived in California, wrote to him, inquiring
whether he made any claim to the premises. On April 1, 1856, the latter addressed from California to his sister C., in Michigan, a letter, wherein he said,
"1You can tell D. for me he need not fear any thing from me. . .. You can
laim all there. This letter will be enough for him. I intended to give you
and yours all my property there, and more if you need it." The contents of
that letter becoming known to D., he, for a valuable consideration and by
deeds with covenants of warranty, conveyed in fee the lands to E. and others,
irho thereunder have ever since occupied and improved them. July 9, 1865,
B. conveyed the undivided half of them by quitclaim deed to F., who, March
6, 1873, brought ejectment. Hedd, 1. That B.'s letter of April 1,1856, operates
as an estoppel in pais which precludes him from setting up a claim to them,
and is an available defence to the action. 2. That IF. was not a bona idd
purchaser, and that whatever title he acquired was subject to the legal and
equitable rights of D. and those claiming under the latter.

ERROR. to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Michigan.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. George W. Lawton for the plaintiff in error.

Mr.

.T.Smiley, contra.

MR. JUSTICE SwAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action of ejectment brought by Dickerson and
Wheeler. The latter died during the progress of the suit.
The parties agreed in writing to submit the case to the court
without the inteiziention of a jury.

The court found the facts.

So far as it is necessary to state them, they may be thus summaHe
rized: Micaja.h Chauncey owned the land in controversy.

died on the

-

day of February, 1853, leavink" two children,

