Oct. 1879.]

NATIONAL BANK

v.

GRAHAM.

to the agents; and upon this a further presumption, that the
premiums had been paid over by the agents to the company,
or had been immediately collected by it. This appears to us
to have been quite inadmissible. A verdict of a jury found
upon such evidence would have been a mere guess. The evidences of fact did not go far enough. We think, therefore,
the court was not in error in withdrawing it from the consid.
eration of the jury.
What we have said renders it unnecessary to notice at length
the several assignments of error. If there was no evidence of
the receipt of renewal premiums by the company, what would
have been the interest upon them had they been received was
quite immaterial. So, also, was it immaterial to show what
would have been the probable duration of the policies.
Judgment affirmed.

NATIONAL

BANx v.

GRAHA1%.

1. A national bank is liable for damages occasioned by the loss, through gross
negligence, of a special deposit made in it with the knowledge and acquiescence of its officers and directors.
2. Gross neglience on tbe'part of a gratuitous bailee, though not a fraud, is in
legal effect the same thing.
3. The doctrine of utra vires has no application in favor of corporations for
I wrongs committed by them.
4. Sect. 6228 of the Revised Statutes, which provides that it shall be lawful for
a national bank after its failure to "deliver special deposits," is as effectual
a recognition of its power to receive them as an express declaration to that
effect would have been.
6. The phrase "special deposits," so employed, embraces the public securities of
the United States.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of Pennsylvania.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
11r. George H. Williams for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. Johla Hays, contra.
IMR. JusTmIE SwAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
The capital stock of the First National Bank of Carlisle,
Pennsylvania, was $500,000, divided into fiv6 hundred shares

NATIONAL BANK V. GRAIIA.

[[Sup.

a
Ct.

of $1,000 each. From Nov. 9, 1869, Samuel Hepburn, the
president, owned four hundred and sixty shares. His son, 0.
H. Hepburn, was the cashier, and he and Hopewell Hepburn,
another son and a director, owned ten shares each. From Oct.
19, 1871, H. M. Hepburn, also a son and director, owned ten
shares. John G. Orr, the teller and a director, owned the
remaining ten shares. With one exception, these persons were
directors from the year 1870. In 1867, Fannie L. Graham, the
defendant in error, had $4,000 of 7.80 bonds of the United
States deposited in the bank for safe-keeping. They were called
in by the government, and at her request the cashier had them
converted into the same amount of 5.20 bonds. These also
were left in the bank for safe-keeping. The cashier gave her
a receipt, dated Oct. 22, 1868, setting forth this fact and that
the bonds were to be returned on the return of the receipt.
The cashier cut off the coupons and collected them and
placed the proceeds to her credit on the books of the bank,
and paid her the amount as it was demanded. She kept an
account with the bank. Before and after the times mentioned,
the officers of the bank were accustomed to receive such deposits from others in the same way and for the same purpose.
They were entered in a book kept by the bank. The fact of
there being such deposits was frequently spoken of by the
directors at meetings of the board. Some of The directors and
quite a number of other persons had such deposits in-the bank.
No compensation was expected or received by the institution.
It was a bailee without reward. The bank alleged that on
the 5th of August, 1871, the bonds of the defendant in error
were stolen from its vault. She did not learn the fact until
some two or three weeks afterwards. She heard that some
other securities belonging to her and so deposited had been
stolen, and upon inquiry at the bank was told that those securities had been found upon a neighboring highway an 1 had
been returned, but that her government bonds had been stolen
also and had not been recovered. She was requested to say
nothing about their loss, and was assured that the interest
should be regularly paid to her, and that the value of the bonds
should also be made good, so that she should not be a loser.
The interest was accordingly paid up to the 1st of July, 1873,

Oct. 1879.]

NATIONAL BANK v. GRAHAM.

inclusive. This suit was brought to recover the value of the
bonds.
The defendant in the court below asked the court to instruct
the jury that the bank being a corporation chartered under the
national banking laws, "was not authorized to receive bonds
and valuables for safe-keeping;" that "the act of the cashier
in taking the bonds of the plaintiff was not within the scope
of his powers and duties as cashier, and, therefore, did not
bind the bank; and that the plaintiff could not recover."
This instruction the court refused to give, and the defendant
excepted.
The jury was instructed that, "to justify a recovery against
the defendant in this case, they must be satisfied from the evidence that the plaintiff's bonds were received for safe-keeping
with the knowledge and acquiescence of the officers and directors of the bank, and that if the bonds were lost by the gross
negligence of the bank or its officers, the bank was liable."
The defendant again excepted. A verdict was rendered for
the plaintiff. The jury thus found and affirmed the facts of
knowledge and gross negligence by the bank. These points
are, therefore, conclusively established, and are not open to
inquiry.
Conceding for the moment that the contract was illegal and
void for the reason alleged in behalf of the bank, the consequence insisted upon would by no means follow. There was
-no moral turpitude on either side, - certainly none on the part
of'the depositor. She was entitled at any time to reclaim the
securities. The bank was bound in good faith and in law to
return them, or to keep them, without gross negligence until
they were called for. If, when applied for, they were refused,
it cannot be doubted that they, or their value, according to the
form of action adopted, might have been recovered. White v.
The Franklin Bank, 22 Pick. (Mass.) 181. If the bank had
destroyed them or had thrown them into the street, whereby
they were lost to the plaintiff, the liability of the bank would
have been the same. To have kept them with gross negligence, whereby the some consequence to the plaintiff was
incurred, involved necessarily the same result to the depositary. The only way of escape from liability open to the latter

NATIONAL BANK V. GRAHAM.

[Sup. Ct.

would have been to return the property to the owner, or to get
rid of its possession otherwise in some lawful way. Gross
negligence on the part of a gratuitous bailee, though not a
fraud, is in legal effect the same thing. Fosterv. E88eZ Bank,
17 Mass. 479. It is a tort, and an action on the case is the
appropriate remedy for such a wrong. In many cases where
there is a valid contract it may be regarded only as induceMint and as raising a duty, for the breach of which an action
may be brought ex contractuor ex delicto, at the option of the
injured party. 1 Chitty, P1. 151.
Corporations are liable for every wrong they commit, and in
such cases the doctrine of ultra vires has no application.
They are also liable for the acts of their servants while such
servants are engaged in the business of their principal, in the
same manner and to the same extent that individuals are liable
under like circumstances. Merchants' Bank v. State Bank,
10 Wall. 604. An action may be maintained against a corporation for its malicious or negligent torts, however foreign
they may be to the object of its creation or beyond its granted
powers. It may be sued for assault and battery, for fraud and
deceit, for false imprisonment, for malicious prosecution, for
nuisance, and for libel. In certain cases it may be indicted
for misfeasance or nonfeasance touching duties imposed upon
it in which the public are interested. Its offences may be
such as will forfeit its existence. Philadelphia, Wilmington,
& Baltimore Railroad Co. v. Quigley, 21 How. 209; 2 Wait,
Actions and Defences, pp. 337-339 ; Angell & Ames, CorporAtions, sects. 186, 385; Cooley, Torts, pp. 119, 120.
Recurring to the case in hand, it is now well settled that if
a bank be accustomed to take such deposits as the one here in
question, and this is known and acquiesced in by the directors,
and the property deposited is lost by the gross carelessness of
the b.dlee, a liability ensfies in like manner as if the deposit
had been authorized by the terms of the charter. Poster v.
B'ssex Bank, supra; Lancaster County National Bank v. Smith,
62 Pa. St. 47; Scott v. The National Bank of Chester J'alley,
72 id. 471; The First National Bank of Carlisle v. Graham,
79 Pa. 106; Turner v. The FirstNational Bank of Keokuk, 26
Iowa, 562; Smith v. The First National Bank in Westfield, 69

Oct. 1879.]

NATIONAL BANK V. GRAHAM.

Mlass. 605 ; c0hattaiooche National Bank v. Scdey, 58 Ga. 869.
The only authorities in direct conflict with these adjudications,
to which our attention has been called, are Willey v. The Fir.st
.N2ational Bank of Brattleboro', 47 Vt. 546, and Whitney v. The
i,"st lNrational Bank of Brattleboro', 50 id. 389.
The case first cited (Poster v. Essex Bank) was argued exhaustively by the most eminent counsel of the time, and decided by a court of great judicial learning and ability. Their
opinion is marked by careful elaboration.
The special deposit there was a cask containing gold coin.
While it was maintained that the bank would have been liable
for its loss by gross negligence, it was held that such negligence
in that case had not been shown.
Here, gross negligence is conclusively established. The depositor kept an account in the bank. The cashier cut off and
collected the coupons, and placed the proceeds to her credit.
The bonds, therefore, entered into the legitimate and proper
business of the institution. But it is unnecessary to pursue
this view of the subject further, because we think there is
another ground free from doubt upon which our judgment may
be rested.
The forty-sixth section of the Banking Act of 1864, reenacted in the Revised Statutes of the United States, sect.
5228, declares that, after the failure of a national bank to pay
its circulating notes, &c., "it shall not be lawful for the association suffering the same to pay out any of its notes, discount
any notes or bills, or otherwise prosecute the business of banking, except to receive and safely keep moneys belonging to it,
and to deliver special deposits." This implies clearly that a
national bank, as a part of its legitimate business, may receive
such "special deposits;" and this implication is as effectual as
an express declaration of the same thing would have been.
United States v. Babbit, 1 Black, 55.
The phrase "special deposits," thus used, embraces deposits
such as that here in question. Patterson v. Die Syracuse
.Xational Bank, Court of Appeals of New York (recently decided and not yet reported). In that case it was said "a reference to the history of banking discloses that the chief, and in
some cases the only, deposits received by the early banks were

COX V. NATIONAL BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

special deposits of money, bullion, plate, &c., for safe-keeping,
and to be specifically returned to the depositor; and such was
the character of the business done by the Bank of Venice (the
earliest bank) and the old Bank of Amsterdam, and the same
business was done by the Goldsmiths of London and the Bank
of England, and we know of none of the earlier banks where it
was not done."
It would, undoubtedly, be competent for a national bank to
receive a special deposit of such securities as those here in
question, either on a contract of hiring or without reward, and
it would be liable for a greater or less degree of negligence
accordingly.
We do not mean that it could convert itself into a pawnbroker's shop. That subject involves topics alien to the case
before us, and which in this 'opinion it is unnecessary to consider.
Judgment affrmed.

Cox v. NATioNAL BANK.
C

RDY v. NATIoNAL BANx.

A bill of exchange drawn by A. to the order of B. on "lIessrs. C. & D., New
York, N. Y.," was accepted by them without qualification or condition. All
the parties then and at its maturity resided in Kentucky. The notary public,
after making on the day it matured diligent but unsuccessful inquiry in New
York City for C.& D., and for their place of residence or business, presented
it and demanded payment, during business hours, at the places frequented
by them when in that city. Payment not having been made, he protested
the bill, and on the next day, learning from those whom he believed to be
informed on the subject the residence of A. and B., transmitted to them there
by mail, post paid, notices of such protest. Held, 1. That the bill was in
law payable at that city. 2. That. the presentment and demand were sufficient. 3. That the requisite steps to bind A. and B. were taken.

ERR oR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Kentucky.
The first of these cases is an action by the National Bank
of the State of New York against Merritt Cox, the drawer,
J. C. Whitlock, the payee, and W. F. Cox and William Cowan,

