Oct. 1879..]

UNITED STATES V. HIRSCH.

UNITED STATES V. HIRSCH.
1. A period of less than five years will not bar a prosecution for effecting an
entry of goods at the custom-house by a fraudulent invoice of them, and a
false cla-sification as to their quality and value.
2. A conspiracy to defraud the United States of the duties on certain imported
goods is not "a crime arising under the revenue laws," and the persons
(.hfrged tlieewith cannot be prosecuted therefor unless they be indicted
within three years next after the alleged committing thereof.

CEr TincATE

of division in opinion between the judges of

the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of New York.
An indictment, consisting of four counts, was found, Feb. 3,
1877, against Hir'am Hirsch and others, who pleaded that the
offences therein charged had been committed more than three
years before the finding of the indictment.
The first count was drawn under sect. 5440, Rev. Stat., and
charges the defendants with a conspiracy, entered into on the
first day of September, 1873, to defraud the United States out
of the duties on certain described merchandise to be thereafterwards imported into the United States.
The second count charges a conspiracy, entered into on the
thirteenth day of September, 1873, to defraud the United
States out of duties on certain merchandise theretofore imported into the United States. The remaining counts were
drawn under sect. 5445, and charge that the defendants knowingly effected an entry of the goods at the custom-house, by a
fraudulent invoice of them, and by a false classification as to
their quality and value.
The United States demurred to the plea, and the judges of
the Circuit Court were divided in opinion upon the question
" whether the trial is barred by sect. 1044, the indictment
having been found more than three years after the commission
of the alleged offence, or whether it is within the provisions of
sect. 1046, as having been found within five years next after
the commission of the alleged offence."
It is enacted by sect. 1044 that "no person shall be prosecuted for any offence, not capital, except as provided in sect.
vor..X.
3

UNITED STATES V. ]IIRScH.

[Sup. Or.

1046, unless the indictment is found within three years next
after such offence shall have been committed;" and by sect.
1046, that "no person shall be prosecuted, tried, or punished
for any crime arising under the revenue laws or the slavetrade laws of the United States, unless the indictment is found
or the information is instituted within five years next after the
committing of such crime."
The Solieitor-General for the United States.
Mr. George .Roadly,for the defendants, cited United States v.
Mayo, 1 Gall. .96; United States v. Norton, 91 U. S. 566.
Mi. JUSTICE MiLLER, -after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The question before us is whether the indictment describes
crimes arising under the revenue laws of the United States.
There can be little doubt that the crimes set out in the third
and fourth counts, conforming as they do to the description of
the offenco found in sect. 5445, of a false classification of goods
as to value and quality, and effecting an entry of goods at less
than the true weight or measure, arise under the revenue laws.
The section, intended solely for the protection of the revenue
arising from customs, was originally the third section of the
act of Marci 3, 1863, entitled " An Act to prevent frauds upon
the revenue, to provide for the more certain and speedy collection of claims against the United States, and for other purposes." 12 Stat. 737. It is, beyond question, a revenue law,
and the offence defined by it is therefore a crime arising under
the revenue laws of the United States.
With regard to the first two counts the answer is not so
clear.
The gravamen of the offence here is the con.spiracy. For
this there must be more than one person engaged. Although
by the statute something more than the comnion'aw definition
of a conspiracy is necessary to complete the offence, to wit,
some act done to effect the object of the conspiracy, it remains
true that the combination of minds in an unlawful purpose is
the foundation of the offence, and that a party who did not
join in the previous conspiracy cannot, under this section, be
convicted on the overt act.

Oct. 1879.]

UNITED STATES V. HIRSCH.

Nor does the section, as found in the Revised Statutes or
in the original act, make any special reference to the revenue or to the revenue laws. Its language is: "If two or more
persons conspire, either to commit any offence against the
United States or to defraud the United States in any manner
or for any purpose, and one or more such parties do any act
to effect the object of the conspiracy, all the parties shall be
liable," &c.
The conspiracy here described is a conspiracy to commit any
offence against the United States. The fraud mentioned is
any fraud against them. It may be against the coin, or consist in cheating the government of its land or other property.
The offence may be treason, and persons have been. convicted,
under this statute for a conspiracy to do the acts which constitute treasofi against the United States.
Since, then, the section does not mention the revenue or the
revenue laws, but in terms includes every form of conspiracy
against the United States, and every form of conspiracy to defraud them, it is difficult to see how the crimes it defines, and
which are punishable under it, can be said to arise under the
revenue laws. Specific acts which are violations of the laws
made to protect the revenue may be said to be crimes arising under the revenue laws, as are those in the third and
fourth counts; but a conspiracy to defraud the government,
though it may be directed to the revenue as its object, is punishable by the general law against all conspiracies, and can
hardly be said, in any just sense, to arise under the revenue
laws.
In support of the opposite view, it is said that sect. 5440 was
originally sect. 30 of the act of March 2, 1867 (14 Stat. 484),
which was a revenue law, and that this section must be held
also to be a revenue law.
It must be 'admitted that in construing any part of the
Revised Statutes it is admissible, and often necessary, to recur
to its connection in the act of which it was originally a
part.
The force of the argument arising from finding an enactment in a statute directed mainly to a particular subject is
much diminished by our experience of the manner in which

UNITED STATES v. HIRSCH.

[Sup. Ct.

incongruous legislation is combined in the same bill as passed
by the two Houses of Congress. The important principle, revolutionary in the law of evidence, by wldch parties to suits and
persons having a pecuniary interest in the results are made
competent witnesses, is found in a few words, inserted as a
proviso to an appropriation bill.
The act of 1867 is entitled "An Act to amend existing laws
relating to internal revenue, and for other purposes," and it
consists of thirty-four sections. Every section except the one
defining conspiracies has reference to internal revenue, and if
the argument is worth any thing, the act must be limited to
that kind of revenue.
But the title indicates that other purposes than revenue may
be found in the provisions of the act.
Looking, then, to the section in question, which makes no
mention of revenue whatever, but enacts in the most general
terms a law against conspiracies, we are of opinion that one of
the other purposes of the act was to adopt this general penal
provision, and that an offence punishable under that section
alone is not a crime arising under the revenue laws, though
the overt act necessary to be alleged may be one affecting the
revenue of the United States.
It will be certified to the Circuit Court that the plea of the
Statute of Limitations of three years is good in bar of the first
two counts of the indictment, and is bad as to the third and
fourth; and it is
So ordered.

