Oct. 1879.]

BRANCH V. UNITED STATES.

BRAxCH v. UNITFD STATES.
The proceeds of certain cotton seized under the Confiscation Act as the property
of A. were, in July, 1860, by order of the propc District Court, turned over to
its clerk, who thereupon deposited them to his credit as such in a national

bank which had been duly designated as a depositary of public money. The
bank failed, and judgment in the confiscation proceedings having been rendered in favor of A., he brought suit against the United States to recover said
proceeds. Held, 1. That the deposit by the clerk was not a payment into the
treasury of the United States.

2. That said proceeds belonged for the time

being to the court, and were, pending the proceedings, held as a trust fund.
3. That A. was not entitled to recover.

from the Court of Claims.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
APPEAL

31r. Theodore H. N. MfcPherso%for the appellants.
VTe Attorney-General, contra.
IR.

Cmim' JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of tne

COUrt.

This case presents the following state of facts :
In June, 1865, the marshal of the United States for the
middle district of Alabama seized certain cotton belonging to
the appellants, by order of the District Court of that district,
upon the information of the district attorney, under the Confiscation Act. Pursuant to, an order of the court made in the
progress of the suit for condemnation, the propgrty was sQld,
and the proceeds paid over, under the direction of the court,
to the clerk. The clerk, having been notified by the Interior
Department that the First National Bank of Selma, Alabama,
had been designated by the Secretary of the Treasury as a
depositary of public money, deposited in July, 1866, to his
own credit as clerk in that bank the money received by him
from the marshal. This deposit was made pending the condemnation suit and to await the further orders of the court.
In January, 1871, the suit was dismissed and judgment entered
in favor of the defendants for costs. In the mean time the
Bank of Selma had failed, and in the proceedings for winding
up its affairs under the National Banking Act a dividend
amounting to $641.32 upon this deposit was paid to the court,
VOL. X.
43

BRANCH V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. 0L.

and then by order of the court paid over to the claimants, less
a small amount allowed by the judge to an auditor appointed
by him to ascertain the facts. This suit was brought against
the United States to recover the balance of the original deposit,
upon the ground that, as the bank was at the time when the
deposit was made a designated depositary of public money, it
was part of the treasury of the United States, and that consequently the deposit made by the clerk was equivalent to a
payment of the money into the treasury, binding the United
States to the claimants for its return in case the court should
determine, in the condemnation suit, that the cotton when
seized was not liable to confiscation.
The position assumed by the appellants is to our minds
wholly untenable. The designated depositaries are intended
as places for the deposit of the public moneys of the United
States; that is to say, moneys belonging to the United States.
No officer of the United States can charge the government with
liability for moneys in his hands not public moneys by depositing them to his own credit in a bank designated as a depositary.
In this case, the money deposited belonged for the time being
to the court, and was held as a trust fund pending the litigation. The United States claimed it, but their claim was contested. So long as -this contest remained undecided, the officers
of the treasury could not control the fund. Although deposited
with a bank that was a designated depositary, it was not paid
into the treasury. No one could withdraw it except the eourt
or the clerk, and it was held for the benefit of whomsoever in
the end it should be found to belong.
The whole sulbject is elaborately considered in the opinion
of the Court of Claims, and we deem it unnecessary to attempt
to add to what has there Leon said.
Judgment affirmed.

