Oct. 1879.]

BURNS V. MEYER.

BuRws v. MEYER.
1. A. held letters-patent for making side-saddle trees. The tree, composed of
side-bars, cantle behind, and crook before, is first made, and the seat constructed separately on a rim and fastened to the tree by screws, resting on
the crook, and on supports attached to the side-bars in the middle and at
the rear. This construction, it was claimed, simplifies and cheapens the
manufacture, and leaves a space for air under the seat. The claim is as
follows: "As a new article of manufacture, a side-saddle tree, having the
side-bars and seat made separate and then united, substantially as and for
the purpose shown and specified." The side-saddle tree constructed according to the letters-patent subsequently granted to B. does not have the sidebars and seat made separate and then united. Tough strips of wood, steamed
and bent to a proper shape, are attached to the -tree, as a part thereof,
forming side-rails for the seat; that on the right or off side extending from
the cantle to the crook, and that on the left or near side, from the cantle to
a point on the near side-bar some distance back of the crook. The seat is
stretched over these strips or side-rails. Held, that the advantage of separate construction claimed by A. was not attained by B.'s letters-patent, and
that the invention of the latter is not an infringement of A.'s letters-patent.
2. Courts should not by construction enlarge the claim which the Patent Office
has admitted, and the patentee acquiesced in, beyond the fair interpretation
of its terms.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Missouri.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

11r. Samuel S. Boyd for the appellants.
No counsel appeared for the appellees.
delivered the opinion of the court.
The only question in this case is, whether the defendants
infringe certain letters-patent (No. 97,236) granted 23d of
November, 1869, to John J. Grimsley and John Shelly, for
an improved side-saddle tree alleged to have been invented by
Shelly; which letters were afterwards assigned to the complainants.
The infringement alleged consists in making and using sidesaddle trees according to a plan described in another patent
granted to Orlando V. Flora, on the 9th of May, 1876, numbered 177,233. According to the complainants' patent, this
tree, composed of side-bars, cantle behind, and crook before, is
first made, and the seat is constructed separately on a properly
AIR. JUSTICE BRADLEY

BURNS V. MEYER.

[Sup. Ct.

shaped rim, and is then fastened to the tree by screws, resting
on the crook in front, and on supports attached to the side-bars
in the middle and at the rear. This construction is claixined to
simplify and cheapen the manufacture, and leave a space for
"air under the seat. The claim of the patent is as follows: "What I claim as my invention, and desire to secure by
letters-patent is "As a new article of manufacture, a side-saddle tree, having
the side-bars and seat made separate and then united, substan•tially as and for the purpose shown and specified."
The defendants' side-saddle tree, constructed according to
Plora's patent, which is alleged to be an infringement, does not
have "the side-bars and seat made separate and then united."
On the contrary, tough strips of wood, steamed and bent to a
-roper shape, are attached to the tree, as a part thereof, forming side-rails for the seat; that on the right or off side extending from the cantle to the crook, and that on the left or near
bide extending from the cantle to a point on the near side-bai
some distance back of the crook. The seat is stretched ovei
these strips or side-rails. It is obvious that the seat, in this
case, cannot possibly be constructed separately from the sidetars. They must be united in one construction, forming a
complete tree. The advantage of separate construction which
the plaintiffs claim for their patented tree is not attained by
that of Flora. It is true that room is left for the admission of
air under the seat; but that by itself is not claimed as the
invention of Shelly.
It is well known that the terms of the claim in letters-patent
are carefully scrutinized in the Patent Office. Over this part
of the specification the chief contest generally arises. It
defines what the office, after a full examination of previous
inventions and the state of the art, determines the applicant is
entitled to. The courts, therefore, should be careful not to
enlarge, by construction, the claim which the Patent Office
has admitted, and which the patentee has acquiesced in, beyond
the fair interpretation of its terms.
We think there was no infringement.
Decree affirmed.

