UNITED STATES V. MURRAY.

UNITED STATES V.

[Sup. Ct.

URRAY.

I. Owing to the partial exhaustion of the appropriation, A., a clerk in the Treasury Department, was granted leave of absence without pay for five months
from Feb. 1, 1874. He performed no service thereafter. His name Was
continued on the rolls to allow his transfer to some other bureau, should an
opportunity offer. He was, June 30, informed in writing by the Secretary
of the Treasury that his services had terminated January 31. Held, that
he has no claim against the United States after the last-mentioned date. •
2. The joint resolution approved June 23,1874 (18 Stat., part 3, p. 289), providing
for two months' pay to clerks and employds of the executive departments
at Washington, applied to such only as should be discharged at the close of
the fiscal year by reason of the reductions made necessary by the legislation of that session of Congress.

Court of Claims.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
APPEAL from the

The Solicitor- eneral for the United States.
.Afr. John N. Oliver, contra.
MB. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the

Court.
. On the 3d of May, 1873, Murray, the claimant, was appointed
to a clerkship of class 1 in the Treasury Department, for a
probationary term of three months. At the end of that
period, the board of examiners having reported favorably on
his fitness for a clerkship of that class, he was, on the 5th of
November, reappointed, and assigned to duty in the office of
the Commissioner of Internal Revenue from the 3d of that
month.
Owing to the abolition by law of the offices of assessor and
assistant assessor of internal revenue, in May, 1873, a large
additional amount of labor was thrown on the office of the
commissioner, to meet which more clerical force became necessary, and was employed during the summer, fall, and winter
following. ,This unusual demand upon the appropriation for
clerical service in that office for the year ending June 30,
1874, caused an only partial exhaustion of that appropriation,
and created a necessity to dispense with the services of a
number of the clerks employed in that office from different

Oct. 1879.]

UNITED STATES V. MURRAY.

dates in January and February, 1874, till the close of the fiscal year. In consequence of that necessity, leave of absence
without pay was given some of the clerks until the end of the
year. Murray was included among the rest, and his leave
dated on the 1st of February. Leave of absence was granted
instead of an absolute dismissal from office, as a favor to the
clerks, and to give them an opportunity of gettbhg a transfer to
some other bureau, if opportunity offered. The order of leave
was accompanied by a notice that, if a transfer should not be
effected, dismissal would occur at the end of the year.
On the 23d of June, 1874, Congress passed the following
joint resolution: "That the Secretary of the Treasury be, and he is hereby,
authorized to pay, when discharged, two months' pay to such clerks
and employ6s of the executive departments in Washington, D. C.,
as shall be discharged at the close of the present fiscal year without
fault on their part, but by reason of the reductions made necessary
by the legislation of the present session of Congress: Provided,
that the amount paid under this resolution shall be deducted from
the salary of any person receiving the same who shall be reappointed within six months from the date of such discharge."
Murray performed no service after the date of his furlough,
and at the end of the fiscal year was dismissed, with a note
from the Secretary of the Treasury as follows: "Sin, -The necessity for your services in the office of the Commissioner of Internal Revenue no longer existing, they terminated
Jan. 31, 1874, on which date you ceased to serve."
This suit was brought to recover pay for the time included
in the furlough, and also for the two months allowed by the
joint resolution of Congress. The Court of Claims being
divided in opinion, gave a pro forma judgment for the full
amount of the claim, and from that judgment the United States
appealed.
To our minds it is clear the judgment below was wrong.
While under the regulations of the department an employ6 is
not entitled to a leave of absence with pay for more than thirty
days in any one year, there is nothing to prevent the Secretary
from putting him on furlough without pay at any time, if the

UNITED STATES V. MURRAY.

[Sup. Ct.

exigencies of the service require it. He may be dismissed
absolutely, and it is difficult to see why, if this can be done,
he may not be furloughed without pay, which is in effect a
partial dismissal. If he desires to be free from all obligations
to serve in the future, he may resign; but if he permits his
name to continue on the rolls, it must be on such terms as are
imposed by the department. In this case, an extraordinary
demand for clerical service caused an early partial exhaustion
of the appropriation for the year, and, it became necessary to
.dispense with a part of the force, so as to reduce the expenses
of the office. Absolute dismissals were not maae, but, as a
favor to the clerks, their names were kept on the rolls without
pay. Murray remonstrated against what was done, but seems
to have preferred the furlough to an absolute discharge. Under
these circumstances, having iendered no service, he cannot
claim compensation.
Neither do we think the case comes within the provision of
the joint resolution of Congress. That resolution contemplated the extra pay only when discharges occurred in consequence of a reduction of clerical force made necessary by the
legislation of that session of Congress. It nowhere appears
that Murray was discharged on any such account. On the
contrary, the fair inference from the findings below is that he
was appointed originally on account of the necessary temporary
increase of force brought about by the abolition of the offices
of assessor and assistant assessor, under a law of the previous
session, and that he was dist iarged because the additional
labor was no longer 'required. He was kept on furlough in
order that he might, if possible, effect a transfer to some other
branch of the service. This clearly implies that the special
work to which he had been assigned was finished. At any
rate, it does not appear affirmatively or by any fair implication
that his discharge was made necessary on account of any legislation which was had at the session of Congress at which the
resolution was adopted.
The judgment of the Court of Claims is reversed, and the
cause remanded with instructions to dismiss the petition.

So ordered.

