Oct. 1879.]

RAILROAD Co. v. BLAIR.

privileges and rights usual to such corporations. Power to
make the purchase of the line of railroad constructed by the
Improvement Company, as described in the opinion just read,
is admitted. Nor is it necessary to enter into any explanation
as to the circumstances under which the bonds of the Improvement Company were issued, as it is admitted in the agreed
statement of facts filed in this case that those circumstances
are fully shown in the agreed statements of facts filed in that
case.
Viewed in the light of these suggestions, it is quite clear that
any discussion of the question presented in the first assignment
of errors is unnecessary, except to refer to the decision in
Improvement Company v. Slack (upra, p. 648), and the reasons
there given for the conclusion that the company in that case
was a railroad company.
Suppose that is so, then it is conceded by the plaintiffs in this
case that they cannot sustain their second assignment of errors,
which is all that need be said upon the subject.
Judgment affirmed.

RAILROAD CoiANY v. BLAIR.
1. A citation is not required when the appeal is taken and perfected in open
court during the term at which the decree complained of is entered; aliter,
where, at a subsequent term, the appeal is allowed, although the sqlicitor8
of the appellee be present.
2. The appeal will not, however, be dismissed in the latter case, but terms will be
Imposed upon the appellant.
3. Dajton v. Lash (9 U. S. 112) cited and approved.

MoT IoN to dismiss an appeal from the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Northern District of Illinois.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
J11r. W. C. Lar'zed in support of the motion.
X2r. Lyman Trumbull, contra.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
The decree appealed from in this case was rendered Feb.

RAILROAD CO. v. BLAIR.

[Sup. CtL

12, 1879, during the December Term, 1878, of the Circuit
Court. The appeal was not allowed until April 14, 1879,
which was during the March Term, 1879. The practice only
dispenses with a citation when the appeal is taken and perfected in open court during the term at which the decree com
plained of is actually entered; and, to be technically sufficient,
so as to render a citation unnecessary, the taking of the appeal
should in some form appear on the records of the court. The
theory of the rule is, that as a party to a suit is constructively
present in court during the entire term at which his cause is
for hearing, and as the doings of the court are matter of record
at the time, he is chargeable with notice of all that is done
during the term affecting his suit; because, if actually absent
when an order is made, he can on his return obtain full information by an examination of the minutes. Still, an appeal
otherwise regular would not probably be dismissed absolutely
for want of a citation, if it appeared by clear and unmistakable
evidence, outside of the record, that the allowance was made in
open court at the proper term, and that the appellee had actual
notice of what had been done.
The records of the court in this case show an allowance of
the appeal in court when the appellees were present by their
solicitors. It was, however, at a term subsequent to the rendition of the decree, and under the practice a citation was necessary to bring the appellees to this court. The case was
docketed promptly here at the term to which the appeal was
returnable, and as the appellants might well have supposed that
a citation would be waived, we will not dismiss the appeal
absolutely, but apply the rule acted upon in Dayton v. Lash
(94 U. S. 112), and "grant summary relief" "by imposing
such terms upon the appellants as under the circumstances may
be legal and proper."
An order' may be entered that unless the appellants cause a
citation, returnable on the first Monday of February next, to
be issued and served upon the appellees before that date, the
appeal be dismissed.
So ordered.

