Oct. 1879.]

LANSDALE

v.

DANIELS.

or costs. The judgment in this case, after the $1,500 had
been remitted to avoid a new trial, did not exceed $2,500.
Such being the case, under the rule established in Railroad
Conpany v. Grant (98 U. S. 898), our jurisdiction has been
taken away.
The motion to dismiss will ,be granted, each party to pay
his own costs; and it is
,So ordered.

LANSDALE v. DANELS.
A settler upon unsurveyed public lands in California, who filed no declaratory
statement after the return of the plat of the survey to the proper local landoffice, could not, under the act of March 3, 1853 (10 Stat. 244), acquire by his
settlement a right of pre-emption.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of California.

The facts and the assignment of errors are stated in the
opinion of the court.
14r. Rodney illason for the plaintiff in error.
Xr. W. I. Cope and 31r. Walter Van Dyke, contra.
JUSTICE CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Pre-emption rights of the kind in controversy are regulated
by the act of March 3, 1853 (10 Stat. 244), from which it
appears that unsurveyed as well as surveyed lands, not exempted by the same act, are subject to the pre-emption laws,
with all the exceptions, conditions, and limitations expressed
in such, unless otherwise herein provided. Provision is also
made for the appointment of a surveyor-general and of a register and receiver, with the same powers and duties as conferred
and prescribed under the prior pre-emption laws. Official surveys were to be made, and the same section which gives the
right to pre-empt the lands provides that, where unsurveyed
lands are claimed, the usual notice of such claim shall be filed
within three months after the returns of the plats of surveys
to the land-office.
Proceedings in the nature of an action of ejectment were
AI.

VOL.x.

8

114

LANSDALE v. DiNIELS.

[Sup. Ct.

instituted by the plaintiff to recover certain lands situated in
Humboldt County, California, and damages for their detention.
Service was made ; and the defendant appeared and filed what
is called in the State practice an answer and cross-complaint,
in which he admits possession, but denies that it is wrongful,
and sets up a pre-emption title to the lands.
Complete title to the lands is claimed by the plaintiff under
a patent from the United States, issued to him as a pre-emptor.
On the other hand, the defendant claims that he was justly and
legally entitled to the patent, which was wrongfully issued to
the plaintiff; and the object of the cross-complaint is to establish
a trust in favor of the defendant, and to compel the plaintiff to
convey the lands to the defendant.
Every allegation of the cross-complaint being denied by the
plaintiff, he demurred to the same, and showed for cause as
follows: 1. That it does not appear by the allegation of the
same that the defendant filed the required notice of his claim
in the land-office for the district within three months after
the plats of the survey of the lands were returned to the said
land-office. 2. That it appears that all the matters in controversy had previously been determined and adjudicated by a
competent tribunal in an issue respecting the title to the same
property between the same parties. 8. That it does not appear that the defendant ever made the proof required by law
before the register and receiver of the land-offices, prior to the
day appointed for the commencement of the sale of the land.
4. Because the cross-complaint shows that the defendant did
not in person occupy the land for nearly a year before the crosscomplaint was filed.
Hearing was had; and the court of original jurisdiction sustained the demurrer and rendered judgment for the plaintiff,
hich, on appeal, was affirmed by the Supreme Court. Being
dissatisfied with the judgment, the defendant sued out a writ of
error, and removed the cause into this court.
Errors assigned here are as follows: 1. That the court below
erred in sustaining the demurrer to the cross-complaint. 2. That
the court erred in affirming the judgment of the subordinate
State court. 3. That the court erred in holding that the declaratory statement of the defendant was a nullity because it

Oct. 1879.]

LANSDALE v. DANIELS.

was filed before the plats of survey were returned into the landoffice by the surveyor-general.
Sufficient appears to show that the land was unsurveyed, and
that the plaintiff made entry and settlement of the land in controversy on the first day of November, 1853, before the plats of
survey were made; that the defendant made entry and settlement on the same quarter-section the 22d of February, 1854,
the land being still unsurveyed. Nothing is exhibited in the
record to enable the court to ascertain the precise date of the
survey, but it appears that the defendant filed his notice of
claim or declaratory statement prior to the return of the plats
of survey to the local land-office, the record showing.that the
declaratory statement of the defendant was filed on the twentieth day of February, 1856, and that the plats of the surveys of
the land were not returned into the local land-office until the
26th of April following.
Congress has provided that where unsurveyed lands in that
State are claimed by pre-emption, the usual notice of such
claim shall be filed within three months after the return of
plats of surveys to the land-officer, and proof and payment
6hall be made prior to the day appointed by the President's
proclamation for the commencement of the sale, including
such lands.
Declaratory statements under the original act might be made
within three months after the return of the plats of surveys to
the local land-offices, and it was effectual as a step to secure
the right, if it was made within one year from the passage of
the act, which last provision was amended by a subsequentact,
and extended to settlements made prior to and within two years
after the passage of the amendatory act. 12 Stat. 410.
Due settlement of the quarter-section in controversy was
made by the plaintiff more than four months before the defendant entered upon it and commenced his settlement, but he did
not file the usual notice of claim or declaratory statement until
the 11th of October, 1858, more than two years after the
amendatory act went into operation. Authority to file such
a declaratory statement within three months after the plats of
survey are returned into the local land-offices is expressly given
by the act of Congress, but there is no authority given to file

LANSDALE V. DANIELS.

(Sup. CL.

before that time; from which it appears that the declaratory
statement filed by the defendant was premature. Attention
to that subject was called on the trial of the case in the court
below, and the Supreme Court of the State held that the statement of the defendant, inasmuch as it was filed without
authority of law, was a nullity, and this court adopts that conclusion as correct.
System and order are essential in administering the landoffices, and if a party may anticipate the time for such an act
as prescribed by law for two months, it is not perceived 'vhy
he may not for two years, or even for a longer period, which
would necessarily introduce confusion, uncertainty, and irregularity of practice in the local offices of the Land Department.
For these reasons the court is of the opinion that the declaratory statement filed by the defendant is inoperative and without any legal effect. Danielsv. Lansdale, 43 Cal. 41; 1 Lester's
Land Laws, 400; Copp's Land Laws, 420.
He filed his declaratory statement more than two months
before the return of the plats of survey, and in direct violation
of the law upon the subject, which required it to be filed within
three months after such return, as appears from the explicit
language of the act; nor can the court relieve the defendant
from the consequences of his failure to comply with the express
requirement.
Opposed to that is the suggestion that the statement remained
in the local land-office when the plats of survey were returned
there; but that circumstance will not remove the diffic:lty, as
it was made and filed without authority of law, and was in every
sense an unofficial document not belonging to the office. Such
a notice of claim or declaratory statement is indispensably necessary to give the claimant any standing as a pre-emptor, the
rule being that his settlement alone is not sufficient for that
purpose.
Attempt is made to show that the Plaihtiff failed to comply
with the requirements of the pre-emption laws.as to the settlement, occupancy, and cultivation of land entered for pre-emption; but the court is of the opinion that the defence in that
regard is wholly unsustained. Nothing of moment is alleged
in the answer to support the alleged defect, except that the

Oct. 1879.]

LANSDALE V. DANIELS.

plaintiff purchased a dwelling-house, instead of erecting the one
which he occupied. His entry and occupancy of the tract are
admitted; and the court is of the opinion that it is immaterial
whether he built the dwelling-house himself or hired an agent
to erect it for him, or whether he purchased it after it was built
by another, provided it appears that he was the lawful owner
of the dwelling-house, and made the entry and settlement in
good faith, and continued to occupy and cultivate the land, as
required by the pre-emption laws. Enough appears to show
that the dwelling-house was there on the land, and that it
was owned, possessed, and occupied by the plaintiff as his
home more than three months before the defendant entered
and attempted to make his settlement. 1 Lester's Land Laws,
424.
Suppose that is so, still the defendant insists that he was entitled to the patent because the plaintiff did not file his declaratory statement until more than two years after the plats of the
survey of the land were returned into the local offices. Grant
that, but it only shows that both parties settled upon the land
while it was unsurveyed, and that each was to some extent in
fault in filing his dec!iratory statement, the difference being
that the defendant filed his before he had any right to file it
under the pre-emption act, which rendered it a nullity, and
that the plaintiff did not file the required notice of claim until
the tiue allowed by the amendatory act had expired. Such
a notice, if given before the time allowed by law, is a nullity; but the rule is otherwise -where it is filed subsequent
to the period prescribed by the aiiiendatory act, as in the latter event it is held to be operative and sufficient unless some
other person had previously commenced a settlement and given
the required notice of claim.
"ohnsonv. Towsley/, 13 Wall.
72, 91.
Tested by that rule, it is clear that the equity of the plaintiff
is superior to that of the defendant, as the latter never filed
any other notice of claim than that which preceded the return
of the plats o2 survey into the local land-offices.
Other defences failing, the defendant contends that the
plaintiff failed to comply with the requirements of the p'eemption laws in other respects; but the court is of the opinion

LANSDALE

v.

DANIELS.

[Sup. Ct.

that the defence in that regard is not made out, it appearing
that he had a dwelling-house thereon, of which he was the
lawful owner, and that his occupancy was continuous, either
in person or by his tenant. 5 Stat. 455, sect. 10; 1 Lester's
Land Laws, 424.
Beyond doubt, the declaratory statement of the defendant
was a nullity, as it was filed at a time when the act of Congress gave it no effect; and it is equally clear that the notice
of claim was not seasonably filed by the plaintiff, but the
entry and settlement of the plaintiff were first made, -from
which it follows that the equity, as between him and the defendant, is decidedly in his favor, the universal rule in such
cases being that in the adjustment of such controversies the
superior equity must prevail. Story, Eq. Jur. (9th ed.) sect.
64 d. Qui prior est in tempore potior est injure. Jeremy, Eq.
Jur. 285, 286; Boone v. Chiles, 10 Pet. 177; Adams's Equity
(ed. 1872), 148.
Nor does the plaintiff rely entirely upon the proposition that
his is the superior equity, which of itself is sufficient to show
that the judgment below must be affirmed; but it also appears
that the parties were fully heard before the Land Department,
where the decision was in his favor, and that he now holds the
patent for the land; from which it follows that the legal title
is in the plaintiff.
Neither of the parties complied strictly with the law in filing
the declaratory statement; but inasmuch as the plaintiff holds
the legal title and the superior equity, it is clear that the defendant has no such standing in court as will justify a court of
equity in interfering in his behalf.
Complaint is made by the defendant of the decision of the
Land Department in granting the patent to the plaintiff, -but
it is too clear for argument that no case is made to warrant the
court here in reversing that decision. Shepley v. Cowan, 91
U. S. 330; Moore v. Bobbins, 96 id. 530.
Reference to these authorities is sufficient to show that the
defendant is not entitled to the relief asked ; but if the law
were otherwise, it would not benefit the defendant, as he does
not show what questions were litigated before the land-officers,
nor does the record contain any specification as to what the

Oct. 1879.]

UNITED

STATES V. CURTIS.

rulings of the officers were in regard to any particular point.
It appears that there was a contest between the partieq there,
and that the case was decided in favor of the plaintiff; out the
grounds of the decision are not stated. Such being the state
of the pleadings, it is impossible to say that any error of ]aw
was committed by the tribunal.
Viewed in any light, it is clear that there is no error in the
record, and the assignment of errors must be overruled.
J"udgment affirmed.

UNTED STATES v. CURTIS.
CURTIS v. UNITED STATES.

The United States, in an action against the sureties of a paymaster in the army,
a~signed as the breach of the conditions of his official bond that he did not,
when thereunto required, refund ',3,820.02, with interest. He rendered his
account Nov. .30, 1805, when he left the service, and shortly thereafter died.
On the subsequent adjustment of his account at the Treasury Department,
that sum was found to be due at said date. No demand therefor was made
od hi pkcr.onal representatives, and the sureties had no notice of the claim
b,eforc thk, service of the writ in the actton. The adjustment was the only
evidenc,. of the sum due. Hdd, that the United States is entitled to recover
that sunt, buit with interest only from the date of such service.

Elzuon to the Circuit Court of The United States for the
District of Massachusetts.
This was an action of debt, brought by the United States on
a joint and several bond in the penal sum of ,$20,000, executed
May 30, 1862, by Oliver Holman and his sureties, James 0.
Curtis and Joshua T. Foster, conditioned that said Holman,
a paymaster in the army, should faithfully discharge his duties
as such; that he should regularly account, when thereunto required, for all moneys received by him, and "refund at any
time when thereunto required any public moneys remaining in
his hands unaccounted for." The only breach assigned in the
declaration is that he did not refund when thereunto required
the sum of $3,320.02 with interest.
Holman, although named in the writ, was not living when

