Oct. 1879.]

HOUGH v. RAIxwAY Co.

The affidavit states that the loss was without the fault of the
plaintiff, and there is no pretence that the fact was otherwise. The original petition was in the ordinary form in use
in actions of trespass to try the title to land, and was for the
recovery of one-fourth of a league; and there is no suggestion
that the new petition differs from it in any substantial particular.
As to the trial by the court, it is sufficient to observe that a
jury was waived by stipulation of the parties, filed with the
clerk under the act of Congress. Rev. Stat., sect. 649. The coneluding clause of the third section of the act of March 8, 1875,
"to determine the jurisdiction of the circuit courts of the
United States, and to regulate the removal of causes from State
courts, and for other purposes," does not repeal the previous
law, authorizing a trial by the court, without the intervention of a jury, upon such stipulation. It was only intended to
conserve to parties in the cases removed to the circuit courts
the same right of jury trial which parties possess in cases
brought originally in those courts, not to prevent the waiver
of a jury by consent. The provision is similar to the one in
the Judiciary Act of 1879. 18 Stat. 471; Keazrney v. Case, 12
Wall. 281.
Judgment affirmed.

HouGH v. RALWAY ComPAxy.
1. The general rule exempting the common master, whether a natural person or
a corporation, front liability to a servant for injuries caused by the negligence
of a fellow-servant recognized and considered.
2. To that rule there are well-defined exceptions, one of which arises from the
obligation of the raster not to expose the servants, when conducting his
bubiness, to perils or hazards against which they may be guarded by proper
diligence upon his part.
3. Therefore, although his liability to them is not that of a guarantor of the
absolute safety or perfection of the machinery or other apparatus provided
for their use, he is bound to exercise the care which the exigency reasonably
requires in furnishing such as is adequate and suitable.

HOUGH V. RAILWAY, CO.

[Sup. Ct.

4. A railroad company is liable when its officers or agents who are invested with
a controlling or superior duty in that regard are, in discharging it, guilty
of negligence, from which injury to an innocent party results.
5 If the servant of such a company who has knowledge of defects in machinery
gives notice thereof to the proper officer, and is promised that they shall
be remedied, his subsequent use of it, in the well-grounded belief that it
will be put in proper condition within a reasonable time, does not necessarily,
or as matter of law, make him guilty of contributory negligence. It is a
question for the jury whether, in relying upon such promise; and using the
machinery after he knew its defective or insufficient condition, he was in
the exercise of due care. The burden of proof, in such a case, is upon the
company to show contributory negligence.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Texas.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Submitted on printed arguments by Mr. James Turner for
the plaintiff in error, and by 1r. John C. Brown for the defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.

Plaintiffs in error, the widow and child of W. C. Hough,
deceased, seek in this action to recover against the Texas and
Pacific Railway Company damages, compensatory and exemplary, on account of his death, which occurred in 1874, while
he was in its employment as an engineer.
In substance, the case is this :The evidence in behalf of the plaintiffs tended to show that
the engine of which deceased had charge, coming in contact
with an animal, was thrown from the track, over an embankment, whereby the whistle, fastened to the boiler, was blown
or knocked out, and from the opening thus made hot water
and steam issued, scalding the deceased to death ; that the
engine was thrown from the track because the cow-catcher or
pilot was defective, and the whistle blown or knocked out
because it was insecurely fastened to the boiler; that these
defects were owing to the negligence of the company's mastermechanic, and of the foreman of the round-house at Marshall;
that to the former was committed the exclusive management
of the motive-power of defendant's line, with full control over
all engineers, and with unrestricted power to employ, direct,
control, and discharge them at pleasure; that all engineers

Oct. 1879.]

HOUGH V. R AILWAY

CO.

were required to report for orders to those officers, and under
their directions alone could engines go out upon the road; that
deceased knew of the defective condition of the cow-catcher
or pilot, and, having complained thereof to both the master1mechanic and
foreman of the round-house, he was promised a
number of times that the defect should be remedied, but such
promises were not kept; that a new pilot was made, but, by
reason of the negligence of those officers, it was not put on the
engine.
The evidence in behalf of the company conduced to show
that the engine was not defective ; that due care had been exercised, as well in its purchase as in the selection of the officers
charged with the duty of keeping it in proper condition; that
the defective cow-catcher or pilot was not the cause of the
engine being thrown from the track ; that the whistle was securely fastened, and did not blow out, but the cab being torn
away, the safety-valve was opened, whereby the deceased -was
scalded; that if any of the alleged defects existed, it was
because of the negligence of the master-mechanic and the foreman of the round-house, for which negligence the company
claims that it was not responsible.
The principal question arising upon the assignments of error
requires the consideration, in some of its aspects, of the general rule exempting the common master from liability to one
servant for injuries caused by the negligence of a fellow-servant in the same employment.
The general rule," said Chief Justice Shaw, in F arwell v.
Bo.to,0' lV"reeste, Radway Corlporation (4 Metc. (Mass.) 49),
"resulting from considerations as well of justice as of policy,
is, that he who engages in the employment of another for the
performance of specified duties and services, for compensation,
takes upon himself the natural and ordinary risks and perils
incident to the performance of such services, and in legal contemplation the compensation is adjusted accordingly. And
we are not aware of any principle which should except the
perils arising from the carelessness and negligence of those who
are in the same employment. These are perils which the servant is as likely to know, and against which he can as effectually
guard, as the master. They are perils incident to the service,

HOUGH V. RAILWAY CO.

[Sup. t

and which can be as distinctly foreseen and provided for in the
rate of compensation as any other."
To prevent misapprehension as to the scope of the decision,
he deemed it necessary, in a subsequent portion of his opinion,
to add: "We are far from intending to say that there are no
implied warranties and undertakings arising out of the relation
of master and servant. Whether, for instance, the employer
would be rEsponsible to an engineer for the loss arising fTom a
defective or ill-constructed steam-engine; whether this would
depend upon an implied warranty of its goodness and suffi'.iency, or upon the fact of wilful misconduct or gross negligence on the part of the employer, if a natural person, or of
the superintendent or immediate representative and managing
agent, in case of an incorporated company, - are questions on
which we give no opinion."
As to the general rule, very little conflict of opinion is to be
found in the adjudged cases, where the court has been at
liberty to consider it upon principle, uncontrolled by statutory
regulations. The difficulty has been in its practical application to the special circumstances of particular cases. What
are the natural and ordinary risks incident to the work in
which the servant engages; what are the perils which, in legal
contemplation, are presumed to be adjusted in the stipulated
compensation ; who, within the true sense of the rule, or upon
grounds of public policy, are to be deemed fellow-servants in
the same common adventure or undertaking, - are questions
in reference to which much contrariety of opinion exists in the
courts of the several States. Many of the cases are very wide
apart in the solution of those questions.
It would far exceed the limits to be observed in this opinion
to enter upon an elaborate or critical review of the authorities
upon those several points. Nor shall we attempt to lay down
any generalhrule applicable to all cases involving the liability of
the common employer to one employ6 for the negligence of a
co-employ6 in the same service. It is sufficient to say, that,
while the general doctrine, as stated by Chief Justice Shaw, is
sustained by elementary writers of high authority, and by
numerous adjudications of the American and English courts,
there are well-defined exceptions, which, resting as they clearly

Oct. 1879.]

O OUGH

V. RAILWAY CO.

do upon principles of justice, expediency, and public policy,
have become too firmly established in our jurisprudence to be
now disregarded or shaken.
One, and perhaps the most important, of those exceptions
aries from the obligation of the master, whether a natural
person or a corporate body, not to expose the servant, when
conducting the master's business, to perils or hazards against
which he mar be guarded by proper diligence upon the part
of the master. To that end the master is bound to observe all
the care which prudence and the exigencies of the situation
require, in providing the servant with machinery or other instrumentalities adequately safe for use by the latter. It is
implied in the contract between the parties that the servant
risks the dangers which ordinarily attend or are incident to the
business in which he voluntarily engages for compensation;
among which is the carelessness of those, at least in the same
work or employment, with whose habits, conduct, and capacity
he has, in the course of his duties, an opportunity to become
acquainted, and against whose neglect or incompetency he may
himself take such precautions as his inclination or judgment
may suggest. But it is equally implied in the same contract
that the master shall supply the physical means and agencies
for the conduct of his business. It is also implied, and public policy requires, that in selecting such means he shall not
be wanting in proper care. His negligence in that regard
is not a hazard usually or necessarily attendant upon the
business. Nor is it one which the servant, in legal contemplation, is presumed to risk, for the obvious reason that the
servant who is to use the instrumentalities provided by the
master has, ordinarily, no connection with their purchase in
the first instance, or with their preservation or maintenance
in suitable condition after they have been supplied by the
master.
In considering what dangers the servanis presumed to risk,
the court, in Railroad Company v. Fort (17 Wall. 553, 557),
said: "But this presumption cannot arise where the risk is not
within the contract of service, and the servant had no reason to
believe he would have to encounter it. If it were otherwise,
principals would be released from all obligations to make rep-

HOUGH V. RAILWAY CO.

[Sup. Ct.

arations to an employd in a subordinate position for any injury
caused by the wrongful conduct of the persons placed over him,
whether they were fellow-servants in the same common service
or not. Such a doctrine would be subversive of all just ideas
of the obligations arising out of the contract of service, and
withdraw all protection from the subordinate employ~s of
railroad corporations. These corporations, instead of being
required to conduct their business so as not to endanger life,
would, so far as this class of persons were concerned, be relieved of all pecuniary responsibility in case they failed to do
it. A doctrine that leads to such results is unsupported by
reason, and cannot receive our sanction."
A railroad corporation may be contiolled by competent,
watchful, and prudent directors, who exercise the greatest caution in the selection of a superintendent or general manager,
under whose supervision and orders its affairs and business, in
all of its departments, are conducted. The latter, in turn, may
observe the same caution in the appointment of subordinates at
the head of the several branches or departments of the company's service. But the obligation still remains to provide and
maintain, in suitable condition, the machinery and apparatus
to be used by its employ~s, - an obligation the more important,
and the degree of diligence in its performance the greater, in
proportion to the dangers which may be encountered. Those,
at least, in the organization of the corporation, who are invested with controlling or superior authority in that regard represent its legal personality; their negligence, from which injury
results, is the negligence of the corporation. The latter cannot,
in respect of such matters, interpose between it and the servant, who has been injured, without fault on his part, the
personal responsibility of an agent who, in exercising the master's authority, has violated the duty he owes, as well to the
servant as to the corporation.
To guard against misapplication of these principles, we should
say that the corporation is not to be held as guaranteeing or
warranting the absolute safety, under all circumstances, or the
perfection in all of its parts, of the machinery or apparatus
which may be provided for the use of employes. Its duty in that
respect to its employ6s is discharged when, but only when, its

Oct. 1879.]

OH]OUGH v. RAILWAY Co.

agents whose business it is to supply such instrumentalities
exercise due care as well in their purchase originally, as in
keeping and maintaining them in such condition as to be reasonably and adequately safe for use by employ6s.
A leading case upon the question before us is Ford v. Fitchburg Railroad Co., 110 Mass. 241. That was an action by an
engineer to recover damages for injuries caused by the explosion
of his engine, which was old and out of repair. His right to
recover was disputed, upon the ground that the want of repair
of the engine was due to the negligence of fellow-servants in
the department of repairs.
But the court said: "The rule of law which exempted the
master from responsibility to the servant for injuries received
from the ordinary risks of his employment, including the negligence of his fellow-servants, does not excuse the exercise of
ordinary care in supplying and maintaining proper instrumentalities for the performance of the work required. One who
enters the employment of another has a right to count on
this duty, and is not required to assume the risks of the master's negligence in this respect. The fact that it is a duty
which must always be discharged, when the employer is a corporation, by officers and agents, does not relieve the corporation
from that obligation. The agents who are charged with the
duty of supplying safe machinery are not, in the true sense of
the rule relied on, to be regarded as fellow-servants of those
who are engaged in operating it. They are charged with the
master's duty to his servant. They are employed in distinct
and independent departments of service, and there is no difficulty in distinguishing them, even when the same person
renders service by turns in each, as the convenience of the
employer may require." In a subsequent portion of the same
opinion, the court said: "The corporation is equally chargeable, whether the-negligence was in originally failing to provide, or in afterwards failing to keep its machinery in safo
condition."
The same views, substantially, are expressed by Mr. Wharton in his Treatise on the Law of Negligence. The author
(sect. 211) says: "The question is that of duty; and, without
making the unnecessary and inadequate assumption of implied

HOUGH v. RAILWAY Co.

[Sup. Ct.

warranty, it is sufficient for the purposes of justice to assert
- that it is the duty of an employer inviting employLs to use
his structure and machinery, to use proper care and diligence
to make such structure and machinery fit for use." Again
(sect. 212): "At the same time, we must remember that where
a master personally, or through his representatives, exercises
due care in the purchase or construction of buildings and machinery, and in their repair, he cannot be made liable for
injuries which arise from casualties against which such care
would not protect. It is otherwise if there be a lack in
such care, either by himself or his representatives. The duty
of repairing is his own; and, as we shall hereafter see, the
better opinion is, that he is directly liable for the negligence of
agents when acting in this respect in his behalf. If the master
' knows, or, in the exercise of due care, might have known,' that
. . . his structures or engines were insufficient, either at the
time of procuring them or at any subsequent time, he fails in
his duty." Still further, in reference to the obligation upon
the master to supply suitable machinery for working use (sect.
232 a): "It has sometimes been said that a corporation is
obliged to act *always by servants, and that it is unjust to
impute to it personal negligence in cases in which it is impossible for it to be negligent personally. But if this be
true, it would relieve corporations from all liability to servants. The true view is, that, as the corporation can act
only through superintending officers, the negligences of those
officers, in respect to other servants, are the negligences of the
corporation."
The current of decisions in this country is in the same direction, as will be seen from an examination of the authorities, some of which are cited in the note at the end of this
opinion.
It is, however, insisted that the defence is sustained by the
settled course of decisions in the English courts. It is undoubtedly true, that the general doctrine of the immunity of
the master from responsibility for injuries received by his
servant from a fellow-servant in the same employment has,
in some cases, been carried much further by the English than
by the American courts. But we cannot see that, upon the

Oct. 1879.]

HOUGH v. RAILWAY 0o.

precise question we have been considering, there is any substantial conflict between them. That question was not, as is
supposed, involved, it certainly was not decided, in Priestley v.
Powler, 3 Mfee. & W. 1.' The decision there was placed by
Lord Abinger partly upon the ground that, in the "sort of
employment especially described in the declaration [transporting goods of the master by one servant, in a van, conducted by
another of his servants], . . . the plaintiff must have known
as well as the master, and probably better, whether the van
was sufficient, whether it was overloaded, and whether it was
likely to carry him safly." But even in that case, although
the court declared it was not called upon to decide how far
knowledge upon the part of the master of vices or imperfections in the carriage used by the servant injured would make
him liable, it was said: "He (the master) is, no doubt, bound
to provide for the safety of the servant in the course of his
employment, to the best of his judgment, information, and
belief."
The question came before the House of Lords in Paterson v.
Wallace (1 Macq. H. L. Cas. 748), and again, in 1858, in Barto)2sldll Coal Co. v. eid, 3 id. 266. In the last-named case,
Lord Cranworth said that it was a principle, established by
many preceding cases, "that when a master employs his servant in a work of danger he is bound to exercise due care in
order to have his tackle and machinery in a safe and proper
condition, so as to protect the servant against unnecessary
risks." This he held to be the law in both Scotland and
England. At the same sitting of the House of Lords, Bart,will
.- Coal Co. v. McGuire (3id. 307) was determined. In
that case, Lord Chancellor Chelmsford delivered the principal
opinion, concurring in what was said in the Reid case. After
referring to the general doctrine as announced in Priestley
v. Flowler, and recognized subsequently in other cases in the
English courts, he said: "In the consideration of these cases
it did not become necessary to define with any great precision
what was meant by the words ' common service' or ' common
employment,' and perhaps it might be difficult beforehand
to suggest any exact definition of them. It is necessary, however, in each particular case to ascertain whether the fellow-

HouGH v.

RAILWAY

o0.

[Sup. Or.

servants are fellow-laborers in the same work, because, although
a servant may be taken to have engaged to encounter all risks
which are incident to the service which he undertakes, yet he
cannot be expected to anticipate those which may happen to
him on occasions foreign to his employment. Where servants,
therefore, are engaged in different departments of duty, an
injury committed by one servant upon the other, by carelessness or negligence in the course of his peculiar work, is not
within the exception, and the master's liability attaches in
that case in the same manner as if the injured servant stood
in no such relation to him."
Upon the same occasion, Lord Brougham, referring to the
remark of a Scotch judge to the effect that an absolute and
inflexible rule, releasing the master from responsibility in
every case where one servant is injured by the fault of another,
was utterly unknown to the law of Scotland, said: "But, my
lords, it is utterly unknown to the laws of England also. To
bring the case within the exemption, there must be this most
material qualification, that the two servants shall be men in
the same common employment, and engaged in the same common work under that employment." 3 id. 313.
An instructive case is Clarke v. Holmes, decided in 1862, in
the Exchequer Chamber, upon appeal from the Court of Exchequer, 7 I. & N. 937. There, the plaintiff was employed
by the defendant to oil dangerous machinery, and lie was
injured in consequence of its remaining unfenced. He had
complained of the condition of the machinery, and the manager of the defendant, in the latter's presence, promised that
the fencing should be restored. In the course of the argument,
counsel for the defendant relied upon Priestley v. Powler,
claiming it to have decided that whenever a servant accepts
a dangerous occupation he must bear the risk. He was,
however, interrupted by Cockburn, C. J., with the remark,
"That is, whatever is fairly within the scope of the occupation,
including the negligence of fellow-servants; here, it is the
negligence of the master." Crompton, J., also said: "It cannot
be made part of the contract, that the master shall not be
liable for his -own negligence."
In the opinion delivered by Cockburn, C. J., it was said:

Oct. 1879.]

IOUGH V. IAILWAY Co.

"I consider the doctrine laid down by the House of Lords in
the case of The Bartonslill Coal Co. v. Reid as the law of Scotland with reference to the duty of a master, as applicable to
the law of England also, namely, that when' a servant is
employed on machinery from the use of which danger may
arise, it is the duty of the master to take due care, and to
use all reasonable means, to guard against and prevent any
defects from which increased and unnecessary danger may
occur." Again, in the same opinion: "The rule I am laying
down goes only to this, that the danger contemplated on entering into the contract shall not be aggravated by any omission on the part of the master to keep the machinery in the
condition in which, from the terms of the contract, or the
nature of the employment, the servant had a right to expect
that it would be kept."
Byles, J.: "But I think the master liable on the broadei
ground, to wit, that the owner of dangerous machinery is
bound to exercise due care that it is in a safe and proper
condition. . . . The master is neither, on the one hand, at
liberty to neglect all care, nor, on the other, is he to insure
safety, but he is to use due and reasonable care. . . . Why
may not the master be guilty of negligence by his manager
or agent, whose employment may be so distinct from that of
the injured servant that they cannot with propriety be deemed
fellow-servants ? And if a master's personal knowledge of
defects in his machinery be necessary to his liability, the more
a, master neglects his business and abandons it to others the less
will he be liable."
To the same effect is the recent case of
ulIrray v. Phillips,
decided in 1876 in the Exchequer Division of the High Court
of Justice. 35 Law Times Rep. 477.
It is scarcely necessary to say that the jury were not correctly informed by the court below as to the legal principles
governing this case. It is impossible to reconcile the general
charge or the specific instructions with the rules which we
have laid down. They were, taken together, equivalent to a
peremptory instruction to find for the company. The jury may
have believed, from the evidence, that the defects complained
of constituted the efficient proximate cause of the death of the

ROUGH v. RAILWAY CO.

[Sup. Ct.

engineer; that such defects would not have existed had the
master-mechanic and foreman of the round-house exercised
reasonable care and diligence in the discharge of their respec,
tive duties touching the machinery and physical appliances
supplied to employgs engaged in running trains; and that the
deceased -was not chargeable with contributory negligence:
yet, consistently with any fair interpretation of the charge,
and the specific instructions, they were precluded from finding a verdict against the company.
One other question, arising upon the instructions, and which
has been discussed, with some fulness, by counsel, deserves
notice at our hands. It is contended by counsel that the
engineer was guilty of such contributory negligence as to
prevent the plaintiffs from recovering. The instruction upon
that branch of the case was misleading and erroneous.
The defect in the engine, of which the engineer had knowledge, was that which existed in the cow-catcher or pilot. It
is not claimed that he was aware of the insufficient fastening
of the whistle, or that the defect, if any, in that respect, was
of such a character that he should have become advised of
it while using the engine on the road. But he did have
knowledge of the defective condition of the cow-catcher or
pilot, and complained thereof to both the master-mechanic and
the foreman of the round-house. They promised that it should
be promptly remedied, and it may be that he continued to use
the engine in the belief that the defect would be removed.
The court below seem to attach no consequence to the complaint made by the engineer, followed, as it was, by explicit
assurances that the defect should be remedied. According to
the instructions, if the engineer used the engine with knowledge of the defect, the jury should find for the company,
although he may have been justified in relying upon those
assurances.
If the engineer, after discovering or recognizing the defective
condition of the cow-catcher or pilot, had continued to use
the engine, without giving notice thereof to the proper officers
of the company, he would undoubtedly have been guilty of
such contributory negligence as to bar a recovery, so far as
such defect was found to have been the efficient cause of the

Oct. 1879.]

OcOUGH v. RAILWAY GO.

death. He would be heU in that case, to have himself risked
the dangers which might result from the use of the engine in
such defective condition. But "there can be no doubt that,
where a master has expressly promised to repair a defect, the
servant can recover for an injury caused thereby, within such
a period of time after the promise as it would be reasonable
to allow for its performance, and, as we think, for an injury
suffered within any period which would not preclude all reasonable expectation that the promise might be kept." Shearman
& Redf. Negligence, sect. 96; Conroy v. Tulcan ron Works,
62 Mo. 35; Patter.son v. P. J- 0. R. W. Co., 76 Pa. St. 389;
Le Clair v. The Pirst Division of the St. Paul & Pacific
Railroad Co., 20 Minn. 9; Brabbits v. B. TV. Co., 38 MAo.
289. "If the servant," says Mr. Cooley, in his work on Torts,
559, "having* a right to abandon the service because it is dangerous, refrains from doing so in consequence of assurances
that th danger shall be removed, the duty to remove the
danger is manifcst and imperative, and the master is not in
the exercise of ordinary care unless or until he makes his
assurances good. Moreover, the assurances remove all ground
for the argument that the servant by continuing the employment engages to assume the risks."
And such seems to be the rule 'recognized in the English
courts. Rolmes v. Wortlngton, 2 Fos. & Fin. 533; Hfolmes
v. Clarke, 6 H. & N. 937; Clarke v. Holmes, 7 id. 937. We
may add, that it was for the jury to say whether the defect in
the cow-catcher or pilot was such that none but a reckless
engineer, utterly careless of his safety, would have used the
engine without it being removed. If, under all the circumstances, and in view of the promises to remedy the defect, the
engineer was nbt wanting in due care in continuing to use the
engine, then the company will not be excused for the omission
to supply proper machinery, upon the ground of contributory
negligence. That the engineer knew of the alleged defect
was not, under the circumstances, and as matter of law, absolutely conclusive of want of due care on his part. Ford v.
.Flteh6urg Railroad Co., 110 Mass. 261; Laning v. N. Y. C.
Railroad Co., 49 N. Y. 521. In such a case as that here presented, the burden of proof to show contributory negligence was
vOL. x.

16

226

CRAIG V. SIITH.

[Sup. Ct.

upon the defendant. Railroad Company v. Gladmon, 15 Wall.
401; Wharton, Negligence, sect. 423, and authorities there cited
in note 1; Indianapolis & St. Louis Railroad Co. v. Horst,
93 U. S. 291.
Our attention has been called to two cases determined in
the Supreme Court of Texas, and which, it is urged, sustain
the principles announced in the court below. After a careful
consideration of those cases, we are of opinion that they do
not necessarily conflict with the conclusions we have reached.
Be this as it may, the questions before us, in the absence of
statutory regulations by the State in which the cause of action
arose, depend upon principles of general law, and in their determination we are not required to follow the decisions of the
State courts.
Judgment reversed, and cause remanded, with directions to set
aside the vdrdict and award a new trial, and for such other
proceedings as may be consistent with this opinion.
NOTE. - 73 N. Y. 40; 49 id. 530; 53 id. 551; 59 id. 517; 13 Allen, 440; 48 Me.
116; 66 id. 425; 3 Dillon, 321; 55 Ill. 492; 45 id. 197; 60 id. 175; 8 Allen, 441;
1 Coldw. 613; 38 Wis. 203; 78 Pa. St. 32; 46 Mo. 169; 20 Minn. 9; 3 Sawyer, 444;
Wharton, Negligence (2d ed.), sects. 199-242 and notes.

CRAIG v. SMITE.
1. Papers properly belonging to the files of a court should not be removed therefrom, except in cases of positive necessity. When, therefore, an appeal is
taken, no order for transmitting such papers ought to he made, unless the
actual inspection of them as originals is required to enable the appellate
court to give them their just and full effect in the determination of the suit.
2. Where, on an appeal, papers have been improperly sent here, the order of the
court below will be closely examined, to determine whether they are included
in its terms.
3. Where, in a case involving the infringement and validity of letters-patent, tLe
Circuit Court, on the allowance of an appeal from its final decree, directed
its clerk to transmit with the transcript "the original exhibits, patent certificates, schedules, drawings, and models on file, along with and as part of
the record and transcript," -Held, that certain affidavits sent here, but not
copied into the transcript, although they had been filed as "exhibits" with
the bill and the answer thereto, and by consent treated and read as deposi.

