Oct. 1879.]

Ex PAR'TE SIEBOLD.

871

EX PARTE SIEBOLD.
1. The appellate jurisdiction of this court, exercisible by the writ of habeas
corpus, extends to a case of imprisonment upon conviction and sentence of
a party by an inferior court of the United States, undere and by.virtue of
an unconstitutional act of Congress, whether this court has jurisdiction to
review the judgment of conviction by writ of error or not,
2. The jurisdiction of this court by habeas corpus, when not restrainet. by some
special law, extends generally to imprisonment pursuant to the judgment
of an inferior tribunal of the United States which has no jurisdiction of
the cause, or whose proceedings are otherwise void and not merely erroneous; and such a case occurs when the proceedings are had under an 3anconstitutional act.
3. But when the court below has jurisdiction of the cause, rnd the matter
charged is indictable under a constitutional law, any errors committed by
the inferior court can only be reviexl-ed by writ of error; and,'of couise, cannot be reviewed at all if no writ of error lies.
4. Where personal liberty is concerned, the judgment of an inferior court affecting it is not so conclusive but that the. question of its iaithority to try and
imprison the party may be reviewed on habeas corpus by a superior court
or judge having power to award the writ.
6 Certain judges of election in the city of Baltimore, appointed under State
laws, were convicted in the Circuit Court of the United States, under sects.
6515 and 5522 of the Revised Statutes of the United- States, for inierfering
with and resisting the supervisors of election apd deputy marshals of the
United State3 in the performance of their duty. at an election of representa.
tives to Congress, under sects. 2016, 2017, 2021, 2022, title xxvi., of the.
revised Statutes. Hdd, that the question of the constitutionality of said
laws is good ground for the issue by this court of a writ of habeas corpus to
inquire into the legality of the imprisonment under such conviction; and if
the laws are determined to be unconstitutional, th6 prisoper shoutd be discharged.
6. Congre-s had power by the 'Constitution to en'act sect.'5515 of the Revised
Statutes, which makes it a pdnal offence dgainst the Uuited States for any
officer of election, at an election held for a representative in Congress, to
neglect to perform, or to violate, any'duty in regard to such election,
whether required by a law of the State or of the United States, dr knowi
ingly to do any act unauthorized by any sue.h law,-with intent to affect such
election, or to make a fraudulent certificate of the result, &e. ; and sept.
5522, which makes it a penal off~ce for any.officer, or other person, 'im
or without process, to obstruct, hinder, bribe, or interfere with a supervisor
cf election, or marshal, or deputy marshal, in the perforinefice of any duty
required of them by any law of tie United States, or to prevent their free
attendance at the plAces of registration or election, 9c.; als6, sects. 2011,
2012, 2016, 2017, 2021, 2022, title xxvi.,_which Authorize th.L circuit courts
to ajpoint supervisbrs of such Iectioos, and the marshal to appoint special
deputies to aid and assist them, and which prescribe -the duties of such
supervirors and deputy marshals,- these being the laws provided in the.

872

Ex

PARTE SIEBOLD.

[Sup. Ct.

Enforcement Act of May 31, 1870, and the supplement thereto of Feb. 28
1871, for supervising the elections of representatives, and for preventing
frauds therein.
7. The circuit courts have jurisdiction of indictments under these laws, and a
sentence in pursuance of a verdict of condemnation is lawful cause of imprisonment, from which this court has no power to relieve on haeas corpus.
8. In making regulations for the election of representatives, it is not necessary
that Congress should assume entire and exclusive control thereof. By
virtue of that clause of the Constitution which declares that "the times,
places, and manner of holding elections for senators and representatives
shall be prescribed in each State 'by the legislature thereof; but the Congress may at any time by law make or alter such regulations, except as to
the place of choosing senators," Congress has a supervisory power over
the subject, and may either make entirely new regulations, or add to, alter,
or modify the regulations made by the State.
P. In the exercise of such supervisory power, Congress may impose new duties
on the officers of election, or additional penalties for breach of duty, or
for the perpetration of fraud; or provide for the attendance of officers
to prevent frauds and see that the elections are legally and fairly conducted.
10. The exercise of such power can properly cause no collision of regulations
or jurisdiction, because the authority of Congress over the subject is paramount, and any regulations it may make necessarily supersede inconsistent
regulations of the State. This is involved in the power to "make or
alter."
11. There is nothing in the relation of the State and the national sovereignties
to preclude the co-operation of both in the matter of elections of representatives. If both were equal in authority over the subject, collisions of jurisdiction might ensue; but the authority of the national government being
paramount, collisions can only occur from unfounded jealousy of such
authority.
12. The provision which authorizes the deputy marshals to keep the peace at
the elections is not unconstitutional. The national government has the
right to use physical force in any part of the United States to compel
obedience to its laws, and to carry into execution the powers conferred
upon it by the Constitution.
13. The concurrent jurisdiction of the national government with that of the
States, which it has in the exercise of its powers of sovereignty in every
part of the United States, is distinct from that exclusive jurisdiction which
it has by the Constitution in the District of Columbia, and in those places
acquired forthe erection of forts, magazines, arsenals, &c.
14. The provisions adopted for compelling the State officers of election to observe the State laws regulating elections of representatives, not altered by
Congress, are within the supervisory powers of Congress over such elections. The duties to be performed in this behalf are owed to the United
States as well as to the State; and their violation is an offence against the
United States which Congress may rightfully inhibit and punish. This
necessarily follows from the direct interest which the national government
has in the due election of its representatives and from the power which the
Constitution gives to Congress over this particular subject.

Oct. 1879.]

EX PARTE SIEBOLD.

15. Congress had power by the Constitution to vest in the circuit courts the
appointment of supervisors of election. It is expressly declared that "Congress may by law vest the appointment of such inferior officers, as they
think proper, in the President alone, in the courts of law, or in the heads
of departments." Whilst, as a question of propriety, the appointment of
officers whose duties appertain to one department ought not to be lodged in
another, the matter is nevertheless left to the discretion of Congress.

PETITION for writ of habeas corpus.

The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
.Ir.Bradley T. Johnson for the petitioners.
The Attorney- General,contra.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The petitioners in this case, Albert Siebold, Walter Tucker,
Martin C. Burns, Lewis Coleman, and Henry Bowers, were
judges of election at different voting precincts in the city of
Baltimore, at the election held in that city, and in the State of
Maryland, on the fifth day of November, 1878, at which representatives to the Forty-sixth Congress were voted for.
At the November Term of the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Maryland, an indictment against each
of the petitioners was found in said court, for offences alleged
to have been committed by them respectively at their respective precincts whilst being such judges of election; upon which
indictments they were severally tried, convicted, and sentenced
by said court to fine and imprisonment. They now apply to
this court for a writ of habeas. corpus to be relieved from
imprisonment.
Before making this application, each petitioner, in-the montn
of September last, presented a separate petition to the Chief
Justice of this court (within whose circuit Baltimore is situated),
at Lynn, in the State of Connecticut, where he then was, praying for a like habeas corpus to be relieved from the same imprisonment. The Chief Justice thereupon made an order that the
said marshal and warden should show cause, before him, on the
second Tuesday of October, in the city of Washington, whysuch writs should not issue. That being the first day of the
present term bf this court, at the instance of the Qhief Justice
the present application was made to the court by a new petition
addressed thereto, and the petitions and papers which had been

EX PARTE SIEBOLD.

[Sup. OL.

piresented to the Chief Justice were by consent made a part of
the case. The records of the several indictments and proceedings thereon were annexed to the respective original petitions,
and are before us. These indictments were framed partly
under sect. 5515 and partly under sect. 5522 of the Revised
Statutes of the United States; and the principal questions
raised by the application are, whether those sections, and certain
sections of the title of the Revised Statutes relating to the
elective franchise, which they are intended to enforce, are
within the constitutional power of Congress to enact. If they
are not, then it is contended that the Circuit Court has no jurisdiction of the cases, and that the convictions and sentences of
imprisonment of the several petitioners were illegal and void.
The jurisdiction of this court to hear the case is the first
point to be examined. The question is whether a party imprisoned under a sentence of a United States court, upon conviction
of a crime created by and indictable under an unconstitutional
act of Congress, may be discharged from imprisonment by this
court on habeas corpus, although it has no appellate jurisdiction
by writ of error over the judgment. It is objected that tbe
case is one of original and not appellate jurisdiction, and,
therefore, not within the jurisdiction of this court. But we
are clearly of opinion that it is appellate in its character. It
requires us to revise the act of the Circuit Court in making
the warrants of commitment upon the convictions referred to.
This, according to all the decisions, is an exercise of appellate
power. -Exparte Burford, 3 Cranch, 4,48 ; Ex parte Btollnan
and Swartout, 4 id. 100, 101 ; Ex parte Yerger, 8 Wall. 98.
That this court is authorized to exercise appellate jurisdiction
by habeas corpus directly is a position sustained by abundant
authority. It has general power to issue the writ, subject to
the constitutional limitations of its jurisdiction, which are, that
it can only exercise original jurisdiction in cases affecting ambassadors, public ministers and consuls, and cases in which a
State is a party; but has appellate jurisdiction in all other
cases of Federal cognizance, "with such exceptions and under
such regulations as Comgress shall make." Having this general
power to issue the writ, the court may issue it in the exercise
of original jurisdiction where it has original jurisdiction; and

Oct. 1879.]

EX PARTE SIEBOLD.

may issue it in the exercise of appellate jurisdiction where it
has such jurisdiction, which is in all cases not prohibited by
law except those in which it has original jurisdiction only. Ez
parte Buffnan and SSwartwout, supra; Ex parte Watlcins, 3 Pet.
202; ' id. 568; Ex parte Wells, 18 How. 307, 328; Ableman
v. Boor7t, 21 id. 506; Ex parte Yerger, 8 Wall. 85.
There are other limitations of the jurisdiction, however,
arising irom the nature and objects of the writ itself, as
defined by the common law, from which its name and inciIt cannot be used as a mere writ of
dents are derived.
error. Mere error in the judgment or proceedings, under
and by v:rtue of which a party is imprisoned, constitutes no
ground for the issue of the writ. Hence, upon a return to
a habeas corpus, that the prisoner is detained under a conviction and sentence by a court having jurisdiction of the
cause, the general rule is, that he will be instantly remanded.
No inquiry will be instituted into the regularity of the proceedings, unless, perhaps, where the court has cognizance by
writ of error or appeal to review the judgment. In such a
case, if the error be apparent and the imprisonment; unjust, the
appellate court may, perhaps, in its discretion, give immediate
relief on habeas corpus, and thus save the party the delay
and expense of a writ of error. Bac. Abr., Hab. Corp., B. 13,
.Bethel's Case, Salk. 348; 5 Mod. 19. But the general rale is,
that a conviction and sentence by a court of compet-iit jurisdiction is lawful cause of imprisonment, and no relief can be
given by habeas corpus.
The only ground on which this court, or any comt, without
some special statute authorizing it, vill give relief on habeas
corpus to a prisoner under conviction and sentence of another
court is the want of jurisdiction in such court over the person or
the cause, or some other matter rendering its proceedings void.
This distinction between an erroneous judgment and one that
is illegal or void is well illustrated by the two cases of Ex parte
Lange (18 Wall. 163) and .Bxparte Parks,93 U. S. 18. In the
former case, we held that the judgment -as void, and released
the petitioner accordingly; in the latter, we held that tho
judgment, whether erroneous or not, was not void, because the
court had jurisdiction of the cause; and we refused to interfere.

EX PARTE SIEBOLD.

[Sup. t

Chief Justice Abbot, in Iex v. Suddis (1 East, 806), said :
"It is a general rule that, where a person has been committed
under the judgment of another court of competent criminal
jnrisdidtion, this court [the King's fBench] cannot review the
sentence upon a return to a habeas corpus. In such cases, this
court is not a court of. appeal."
It is stated, howevet, in Bacon's Abridgment, probably in the
words of Chief Baron Gilbert, that, "if the commitment be
against law, as being made by one who had no jurisdiction of
the cause, or for a matter for which by law no man ought to be
punished, the court are to discharge." Bac. Abr., Hab. Corp.,
B. 10. The latter part of this rule, when applied to imprisonment under conviction and sentence, is confined to cases of
clear and manifest want of criminality in the matter charged,
such as in effect to render the proceedings void. The authority usually cited under this head is Bushel's Case, decided in
1670. There, twelve jurymen had been convicted in the oyer
and terminer for rendering a verdict (against the charge of the
court) acquitting William Penn and others, who were charged
with meeting in conventicle. Being imprisoned for refusing to
pay their fines, they applied to the Court of Common Pleas
for a habeas corpus; and though the court, having no jurisdiction in criminal matters, hesitated to grant the writ, yet, having granted it, they discharged the prisoners, on the ground
that their conviction was void, inasmuch as jurymen cannot
be indicted for rendering any verdict they choose. The opinion of Chief Justice Vaughan in the case has rarely been
excelled for judicial eloquence. T. Jones, 18; s. c. Vaughan,
185; s. c. 6 Howell's State Trials, 999.
Without attempting to decide how far this case may be regarded as law for the guidance of this court, we are clearly of
opinion that the question raised in the cases before us is proper
for consideration on habeas corpus. The validity of the judgments is assailed on the ground that the acts of Congress
under which the indictments were found are unconstitutional.
If this position is well taken, it affects the foundation of the
whole proceedings. An unconstitutional law is void, and is as
no law. An offence created by it is not a crime. A conviction under it is not merely erroneous, but is illegal and void,

Oct. 1879.]

EX PARTE SIEBOLD.

and cannot be a legal cause of imprisonment. It is true, ifjpp
-writof error lies, the judgment may be final, in the sense that
there may be no means of reversing it. But personal liberty is
of so great moment in the eye of the law that the judgment
of an inferior court affecting it is not deemed so conclusive but
that, as we have seen, the question of the court's authority to
try and imprison the party may be reviewed on habeas corpus
by a superior court or judge having authority to award the
weit. We are satisfied that the present is one of the cases in
which this court is authorized ,to take such jurisdiction. We
think so, because, if the laws are unconstitutional and void, the
Circuit Court acquired no jurisdiction of the causes.
Its
authority to indict and try the petitioners arose solely upon
these laws.
We proceed, therefore, to examine the cases on their merits.
The indictments commence with an introductory statement
that, on the 5th of November, 1878, at the Fourth [or other]
Congressional District of the State of Maryland, a lawful election was held, whereat a representative for that congressional
district in the Forty-sixth Congress of the United States was
voted for; that a certain person [naming him] was then and
there a supervisor of election of the United States, duly appointed by the Circuit Court aforesaid, pursuant to sect. 2012
of the Revised Statutes, for the third [or other] voting precinct of the fifteenth [or other] ward of the city of Baltimore,
in the said congressional district, for and in respect of the election aforesaid, thereat; that a certain person [naming him] was
then and there a special deputy marshal of the United States,
duly appointed by the United States marshal for the Maryland
district, pursuant to sect. 2021 of the Revised Statutes, and
assigned for such duty as is provided by that and the following
section, to the said precinct of said ward of said city, at the
congressional election aforesaid, thereat. Then come the
various counts.
The petitioner, Bowers, was convicted on the second count of
the indictment against him, which was as follows: "That the. said Henry Bowers, afterwards, to wit, on the day
and year aforesaid, at the said voting precinct within the district aforesaid, unlawfully did obstruct, hinder, and, by the use

EX PARTE SIEBOLD.

-

[Sup. Ct.

of his power and authority as such judge as aforesaid (which
judge he then and there was), interfere with and prevent the
said supervisor of election in the performance of a certain duty
in respect to said election required of him, and which he was
then and there authorized to perform by the law of the United
States, in such case made and provided, to wit, that of personally inspecting and scrutinizing, at the beginning of said day of
election, and of the said election, the manner in which the voting was done at the said poll of election, by examining and
seeing whether the ballot first voted at said-poll of election was
put and placed in a ballot-box containing no ballots whatever,
contrary to sect. 5522 of said statutes, and against the peace,
government, and dignity of the United States."
Tucker, who was indicted jointly with one Gude, was convicted upon the second and fifth counts of the indictment
against them, which were as follows: "(2d.) That the said Justus J. Gude and the said Walter
Tucker afterwards, to wit, on the day and year aforesaid, at the
said voting precinct of said ward of said city, unlawfully and by
exercise of their power and authority as such judges as aforesaid, did prevent and hinder the free attendance and presence
of the said James N. Schofield (who was then and there such
deputy marshtal as aforesaid, in the due execution' of his said
office), at the poll of said election of and for the said voting
precinct, and the full and free access of the same deputy marshal to the same poll of election, contrary to the said- lastmentioned section of said statutes (sect. 5522), and against
the peace, government, and dignity of the United States.
" (5th.) That the said Justus J. Gude and the said Waltei
Tucker, on the day and year aforesaid, at the precinct aforesaid,
within the district aforesaid (they being then and there such officers of said election as aforesaid), knowingly and unlawfully at
the said election did a certain act, not then and there authorized
by any law of the State of Maryland, and not authorized then
and there by any law of the United States, by then and there
fraudulently and clandestinely putting and placing in the ballotbox of the said precinct twenty (and more) ballots (within the
intent and meaning of sect. 5514 of said statutes), which had
not been voted at said election in said precinct before the bal-

Oct. 1879.]

EX PARTE SIEBOLD.

lots, then and there lawfully deposited in the same ballot-box,
had been counted, with intent thereby to affect said election
and the result thereof, contrary to sect. 5515 of said statutes,
and against the peace, government, and dignity of the United
States."
This charge, it will be observed, is for the offence commonly
known as "stuffing the ballot-box."
The counts on which the petitioners, Burns and Coleman,
were convicted were similar to those above specified. Burns
was charged with refusing to allow the supervisor of elections
to inspect the ballot-box, or even to enter the room where the
polls were held, and with violently resisting the deputy marshal who attempted to arrest him, as required by sect. 2022
of the Revised Statutes. The charges against Coleman were
similar to those against Burns, with the addition of a charge
for stuffing the ballot-box. Siebold was only convicted on one
count of the indictment against him, which was likewise a
charge of stuffing the ballot-box.
The sections of the law on which these indictments are
founded, and the validity of which is sought to be impeached
for unconstitutionality, are summed up by the counsel of the
petitioners in their brief as follows (omitting the comments
thereon) :The counsel say: "These cases involve the question of the constitutionality of
certain sections of title xxvi. of the Revised Statutes, entitled
The Elective Franchise.'
"SECT. 2011. The judge of the Circuit Court of the United
States, wherein any city or town having upwards of twenty
thousand inhabitants is situated, upon being informed by two
citizens thereof, prior to any registration of voters for, or any
election at which a representative or delegate in Congress is to
be voted for, that it is their desire to have such registration or
election guarded and scrutinized, shall open the Circuit Court
at the most convenient point. in the circuit.
"SECT. 2012. The judge shall appoint two supervisors of
election for every election district in such city or town.
"SEcT. 2016. The supervisors are authorized and required
to attend all times and places fixed for registration of voters

EX PARTE SIEBOLD.

[Sup. M .

to challenge such as they deem proper; to cause such names
to be registered as they may think proper to be so marked; to
inspect and scrutinize such register of voters; and for purposes of identification to affix their signatures to each page of
the original list.
"SECT. 2017. The supervisors are required to attend the
times and places for holding elections of representatives or
delegates in Congress, and of counting the votes cast; to challenge any vote the legality of which they may doubt; to be
,present continually where the ballot-boxes are kept, until every
vote cast has been counted, and the proper returns made,
required under any law of the United States, or any State,
territorial, or municipal law; and to personally inspect and
scrutinize at any and all times, on the day of election, the
manner in which the poll-books, registry lists, and tallies are
kept; whether the same are required by any law of the United
States, or any State, territorial, or municipal laws.
"SECT. 2021. requires the marshal, whenever any election
at which representatives or delegates in Congress are to be
chosen, upon application by two citizens in cities or towns of
more than twenty thousand inhabitants, to appoint special
deputy marshals, whose duty it shall be to aid and assist the
supervisors in the discharge of their duties, and attend with
them at all registrations of voters or election at which representatives to Congress may be voted for.
"SECT. 2022. requires the marshal, and his general and
special deputies, to keep the peace and protect the supervisors
in the discharge of their duties; preserve order at such place
of registration and at such polls; prevent fraudulent registration and voting, or fraudulent conduct on the part of any
officer of election, and immediately to arrest any person who
commits, or attempts to commit, any of the offences prohibited
herein, or any offence against the laws of the United States."
The counsel then refer to and summarize sects. 5514, 5515,
and 5522 of the Revised Statutes. Sect. 5514 merely relates
to a question of evidence, and need not be copied. Sects.
5515 and 5522, being those upon which the indictments are
directly framed, are proper to be set out in full. They are
as follows:

-

Oct. 1879.]

EX PARTE SIEBOLD.

"SECT. 5515. Every officer of an election at which any representative or delegate In Congress is voted for, whether such officer
of election be appointed or created by or under any law or authority of the United States, or by or under any State, territorial,
district, or municipal law or authority, who neglects or refuses to
perform any duty in regard to such election required of him by
any law of the United States, or of any State or Territory thereof;
or who violates any duty so imposed; or who knowingly does any
acts thereby unauthorized, with intent to, affect any such election,
or the result thereof; or who fraudulently makes any false certificate of the result of such election in regard to such representative
or delegate; or who withholds, conceals, or destroys any certificate
of record so required by law respecting the election of any such
representative or delegate; or who neglects or refuses to make and
return such certificate as required by law; or who aids, counsels,
procures, or advises any voter, person, or officer to do any act by
this or any of the preceding sections made a crime, or to omit to
do any duty the omission of which is by this or any of such sections
made a crime, or attempts to do so, shall be punished as prescribed
in sect. 5511."
"SrcT. 5522. Every person, whether with or without any authority, power, or process, or pretended authority, power, or process, of any State, Territory, or municipality, who obstructs,
hinders, assaults, or by bribes, solicitation, or otherwise, interferes
with or prevents the supervisors of election, or either of them, or
the marshal or his general or special deputies, or either of them, in
the performance of any duty required of them, or either of them,
or which he or they, or either of them, may be authorized to
pcrfofnm by any law of the United States, in the execution of process or otherwise, or who, by any of the means before mentioned,
hinders or prevents the free attendance and presence at such places
of registration, or at such polls of election, or full and free access
and egress to and from. any such place of registration or poll of
election, or in going to and from any such place of registration or
poll of election, or to and from any room where any such registration
or election or canvass of votes, or of making any returns or certificates thereof, may be had, or who molests, interferes with, removes,
or ejects from any such place of registration or poll of election, or
of canvassing votes cast thereat, or of making returns or ceitificates
thereof, any supervisor of election, the marshal, or his general or
special deputies, or either of them; or who threatens, or attempts,
or offers so to do, or refuses or neglects to aid and assist any super-

,382

Ex PARTE SIEBOLD.

[Sup. Ct.

visor of election, or the marshal or his general or special deputies,
or either of them, in the performance of his or their duties, when
required by him or them, or either of them, to give such aid and
assistance, shall be liable to instant arrest without process, and
shall be punished by imprisonment not more than two years, or by
a fine of not more than $3,000, or by both such fine and imprisonment, and shall pay the cost of the prosecution."
These portions of the Revised Statutes are taken from the
act commonly known as the Enforcement Act, approved May
,31, 1870, and entitled "An Act to enforce the right of citizens
of the United States to vote in the several States of this Union,
and for other purposes;" and from the supplement of that
act, approved Feb. 28, 1871. They relate to elections of
members of the House of Representatives, and were an assertion, on the part of Congress, of a power to pass laws for
regulating and superintending said elections, and for securing
the purity thereof, and the rights of citizens to vote thereat
peaceably and without molestation. It must be conceded to
be a most important power, and of a fundamental character.
In the light of recent history, and of the violence, fraud, corruption, and irregularity which have frequently prevailed at
such elections, it may easily be conceived that the exertion of
the power, if it exists, may be necessary to the stability of our
frame of government.
The counsel for the petitioners, however, do not deny that
Congress may, if it chooses, assume the entire regulation of the
elections of representatives; but they contend that it has no
constitutional power to make partial regulations intended to
be carried out in conjunction with regulations made by the
States.
The general positions contended for by the counsel of the
petitioners are thus stated in their brief :" We shall attempt to establish these propositions "1. That the power to make regulations as to the times,
places, and manner of holding elections for representatives in
Congress, granted to Congress by the Constitution, is an exclusive power when exercised by Congress.
"2. That this power, when so exercised, being exclusive of
all interference therein by the States, must be so exercised as

Oct. 1879.]

EX PARTE SIEBOLD.

not to interfere with or come in collision with regulations
presented in that behalf by the States, unless it provides for
the complete control over the whole subject over which it is
exercised.
"3. That when put in operation by Congress it must take the
place of all State regulations of the subject regulated, which
subject must be entirely and complety controlled and provided
for by Congress."
We are unable to see why it necessarily follows that, if Congress makes any regulations on the subject, it must assume
exclusive control of the whole subject. The Constitution does
not say so.
The clause of the Constitution under which the power of
Congress, as well as that of the State legislatures, to regulate
the election of senators and representatives arises, is as follows: "The times, places, and manner of holding elections for
senators and representatives shall be prescribed in each State
by the legislature thereof; but the Congress may at any time,
by law, make or alter such regulations, except as to the place
of choosing Senators."
It seems to us that the natural sense of these words is the
contrary of that assumed by the counsel of the petitioners.
After first authorizing the States to prescribe the regulations,
it is added, "The Congress may at any time, by law, mace or
alter such regulations." "31Ia ie or alter:" What is the plain
meaning of these words? If not under the prepossession of
some abstract theory of the relations between the State and
national governments, we should not have any difficulty in
understanding them. There is no declaration that the regulations shall be made either wholly by the State legislatures or
wholly by Congress. If Congress does not interfere, of course
they may be made wholly by the State; but if it chooses to
interfere, there is nothing in the words to prevent its doing so,
either wholly or partially. On the contrary, their necessary
implication is that it may do either. It may either make the
regulations, or it may alter them. If it only alters, leaving, as
manifest convenience requires, the general organization of the
polls to the State, there results a necessary co-operation of
the two governments in regulating the subject. But no repug-

EX PARTE SIEBOLD.

[Sup. Ct.

nance in the system of regulations can arise thence; for the
power of Congress over the subject is paramount. It may be
exercised as and when Congress sees fit to exercise it. When
exercised, the action of Congress, so far as it extends and
conflicts with the regulations of the State, necessarily supersedes them.. This is implied in the power to ",make or alter."
Suppose the Constitution of a State should say, "The first
legislature elected under this Constitution .may by law regulate the election of members of the two Houses; but any subsequent legislature may make or alter such regulations,"could not a 'subsequent legislature modify the regulations made
by the first legislature without making an entirely new set?
Would it be obliged to go over the whole subject anew ?
Manifestly not: it could alter or modify, add or subtract, in its
discretion. The greater power, of making wholly new regulations, would include the lesser, of only altering or modifying
the old. The new law, if contrary or repugnant to the old,
would so far, and so far only, take its place. If consistent
with it, both would stand. The objection, so often repeated,
that such an application of congressional regulations to those
previously made by a State would produce a clashing of jurisdictions and a conflict of rules, loses sight of the fact that the
regulations made by Congress are paramount to those made by
the State legislature; and if they conflict therewith, the latter,
so far as the conflict extends, ceases to be operative. No
clashing can possibly arise. There is not the slightest difficulty
in a harmonious combination into one system of the regulations
made by the two sovereignties, any more than there is in
the case of prior and subsequent enactments of the same legislature.
Congress has partially regulated the subject heretofore. In
1842, it passed a law for the election of representatives by
separate districts; and, subsequently, other -laws fixing the
time of election, and directing that the elections shall be by
ballot. No one will pretend, at least at the present day, that
these laws were unconstitutional because they only partially
covered the subject.
The peculiarity of the case consists in the concurrent authority of the two sovereignties, State and National, over the same

Oct. 1879.]

EX PARTE SIEBOLD.

This, however, is not entirely without a
subject-matter.
parallel. The regulation of foreign and inter-state commerce
is conferred by the Constitution upon Congress. It is not
expressly taken away from the States. But where the subjectmatter is one of a national character, or one that requires a
uniform rule, it has been held that the power of Congress is
exclusive. On the contrary, where neither of these circumstances exist, it has been held that State regulations are not
unconstitutional. In the absence of congressional regulation,
which would be of paramount authority when adopted, they
are valid and binding. This subject was largely discussed in
the case of Cooley v. Board of Wardens of Port of Philadelphia,
12 How. 299. That was a case of pilotage. In 1789, Congress had passed a law declaring that all pilots should continue
to be regulated in conformity with the laws of the States
respectively wherein they should be. Hence, each State continued to administer its own laws, or passed new laws for the
regulation of pilots in its harbors. Pennsylvania passed the
law then in question in 1803. Yet the Supreme Court held
that this was clearly a regulation of commerce; and that the
State laws could not be upheld without supposing that, in
caes like that of pilotage, not requiring a national and uniform
regulation, the power of the States to make regulations of
commerce, in the absence of congressional regulation, still
remained. The court held that the power did so remain, subject to those qualifications; and the State law was sustained
under that view.
Here, then, is a case of concurrent authority of the State
and national governments, in which that of the latter is paramount. In 1837, Congress interfered with the State regulations on the subject of pilotage, so far as to authorize the pilots
of adjoining States, separated only by navigable waters, to pilot
ships and vessels into the ports of either State located on such
waters. It has since made various regulations respecting pilots
taking charge of steam vessels, imposing upon them peculiar
duties and requiring of them peculiar qualifications. It seems
to us that there can be no doubt of the power of Congress to
impose any regulations it sees fit upon pilots, and to subject
them to such penalties for breach of duty as it may deem
VOL. X.

25

EX PARTE SIEBOLD.

[Sup. Ct.

expedient. The States continue in the exercise of the power
to regulate pilotage subject to the paramount right of the
national government. If dissatisfied with congressional interference, should such interference at any time be imposed, any
State might, if it chose, withdraw its regulations altogether,
and leave the whole subject to be regulated by Congress. But
so long as it continues its pilotage system, it must acquiesce in
such additional regulations as Congress may see fit to make.
So in the case of laws for regulating the elections of representatives to Congress. The State may make regulations on
the subject; Congress may make regulations on the same subject, or may alter or add to those already made. The paramount character of those made by Congress has the effect to
supersede those made by the State, so far as the two are inconsistent, and no farther. There is no such conflict between
them as to prevent their forming a harmonious system perfectly
capable of being administered and carried out as such.
As to the supposed conflict that may arise between the offi.
cers appointed by the State and national governments for
superintending the election, no more insuperable difficulty
need arise than in the application of the regulations adopted
The regulations of Congress being
by each respectively.
constitutionally paramount, the duties imposed thereby upon
the officers of the United States, so far as they have respect
to the same matters, must necessarily be paramount to those to
be performed by the officers of the State. If both cannot be
performed, the latter are pro tanto superseded and cease to be
duties. If the power of Congress over the subject is supervisory and paramount, as we have seen it to be, and if officers
or agents are created for carrying out its regulations, it follows
as a necessary consequence that such officers and agents must
have the requisite authority to act without obstruction or interference from the officers of the State. No greater subordination, in kind or degree, exists in this ease than in any other.
It exists to the same extent between the different officers
appointed by the State, when the State alone regulates the
election.
One officer cannot interfere with the duties of
another, or obstruct or hinder him in the performance of them.
Where there is a disposition to act harmoniously, there is no

Oct. 1879.]

EX PARTE SIEBOLD.

danger of disturbance between those who have different duties
to perform. When the rightful authority of the general government is once conceded and acquiesced in, the apprehended
difficulties will disappear. Let a spirit 6f national as well as
local patriotism once prevail, let unfounded jealousies cease,
and we shall hear no more about the impossibility of harmonious action between the national and State governments in a
matter in which they have a mutual interest.
As to the supposed incompatibility of independent sanctions
and punishments imposed by the two governments, for the
enforcement of the duties required of the officers of election,
and for their protection in the performance of those duties, the
same considerations apply. While the State will retain the
power of enforcing such of its own regulations as are not superseded by those adopted by Congress, it cannot be disputed that
if Congress has power to make regulations it must have the
power to enforce them, not only by punishing the delinquency
of officers appointed by the United States, but by restraining
and punishing those who attempt to interfere with them in the
performance of their duties; and if, as we have shown, Congress may revise existing regulations, and add to or alter the
same as far as it deems expedient, there can be as little question that it may impose additional penalties for the prevention
of frauds committed by the State officers in the elections, or
for their violation of any duty relating thereto, whether arising
from the common law or from any other law, State or national.
Why not? Penalties for fraud and delinquency are part of
the regulations belonging to the subject. If Congress, by its
power to make or alter the regulations, has a general supervisory
power over the whole subject, what is there to preclude it from
imposing additional sanctions and penalties to prevent such
fraud and delinquency?
It is objected that Congress has no power to enforce State
laws or to punish State officers, and especially has no power to
punisih them for violating the laws of their own State. As a
general proposition, this is undoubtedly true; but when, in the
performance of their functions, State officers are called upon to
fulfil duties which they owe to the United States as well as to
the State, has the former no means of compelling such fulfil

EX PARTE SIEBOLD.

[Sup. Ot.

ment? Yet that is the case here. It is the duty of the States
to elect representatives to Congress. The due and fair election of these representatives is of vital importance to the
United States. The government of the United States is no
less concerned in the transaction than the State government is.
It certainly is not bound to stand by as a passive spectator,
when duties are violated and outrageous frauds are committed.
It is directly interested in the faithful performance, by the officers of election, of their respective duties. Those duties are
owed as well to the United States as to the State. This necessarily follows from the mixed character of the transaction, State and national. A violation of duty is an offence against
the United States, for which the offender is justly amenable to
that government. No official position can shelter him from this
responsibility. In view of the fact that Congress has plenary
and paramount jurisdiction over the whole subject, it seems
almost absurd to say that an officer who receives or has custody
of the ballots given for a representative owes no duty to tLe
national government which Congress can enforce; or tLat an
officer who stuffs the ballot-box cannot be made amenable to
the United States. If Congress has not, prior to the passage
of the present laws, imposed any penalties to prevent and punish frauds andviolations of duty committed by officers of election, it has been because the exigency has not been deemed
sufficient to require it, and not because Congress had not the
requisite power.
The objection that the laws and regulations, the violation of
which is made punishable by the acts of Congress, are State
laws and have not been adopted by Congress, is no sufficient
answer to the power of Congress to impose punishment. It is
tTue that Congress has not deemed it necessary to interfere with
the duties of the ordinary officers of election, but has been content to leave them as prescribed by State laws. It has only
created additional sanctions for their performance, and provided
means of supervision in order more effectually to secure such
performance. The imposition of punishment implies a prohibition of the act punished. The State laws which Congress
sees no occasion to alter, but which it allows to stand, are in
effect adopted by Congress. It simply demands their fulfil-

Oct. 1879.]

Ex

PARTE SIRBOLD.

ment. Content to leave the laws as they are, it is not content
with the means provided for their enforcement. It provides
additional means for that purpose; and we think it is entirely
within its constitutional power to do so. It is simply the exercise of the power to make additional regulations.
That the duties devolved on the officers of election are duties
which they owe to the United States as well as to the State, is
further evinced by the fact that they have always been so regarded by the House of Representatives itself. In most cases
of contested elections, the conduct of these officers is examined
and scrutinized by that body as a matter of right; and theii
failure to perform their duties is often made the ground of decision. Their conduct is justly regarded as subject to the fullest
e-xposure; and the right to examine them personally, and to
inspect all their proceedings and papers, has always been maintained. This could not be done, if the officers were amenable only to the supervision of the State government which
appointed them.
Another objection made is, that, if Congress can impose penalties for violation of State laws, the officer will be made liable to double punishment for delinquency, - at the suit of the
State, and at the suit of the United States. But the answer
to this is, that each government punishes for violation of duty
to itself only. Where a person owes a duty to two sovereigns,
he is amenable to both for its performance; and either may
call him to account. Whether punishment inflicted by one
can be pleaded in bar to a charge by the other for the same
identical act, need not now be decided; although considerable
discussi m bearing upon the subject has taken place in this
court, tending to the conclusion that such a plea cannot be
sustained.
In reference to a conviction under a State law for passing
counterfeit coin, which was sought to be reversed on the ground
that Congress had jurisdiction over that subject, and might
inflict punishment for the same offence, Mr. Justice Daniel,
spe::khiig for the court, said: " It is almost certain that, in the
l,,nignmnt spirit in which the institutions both of the State and
F,.d,.,'1,l
sy.t'vis are administered, an offender who should have
suffered the penalties denounced by the one would not be sub-

EX PARTE

WIEBU±.

LSup. CL.

jected a second time to punishment by the other for acts essentially the same, - unless, indeed, this might occur in instances
of peculiar enormity, or where the public safety demanded
extraordinary rigor. But, were a contrary course of policy or
action either probable or usual, this would by no means justify
the conclusion that offences falling within the competency of
different authorities to restrain or punish them would not properly be subjected to* the consequences which those authorities
might ordain and affix to their perpetration." Fox v. The State
of Ohio, 5 How. 410. The same judge, delivering the opinion
of the court in the case of United States v. Marigold (9 How.
569), where a conviction was had under an act of Congress for
bringing counterfeit coin into the country, said, in reference to
Fox's Case: "With the view of avoiding conflict between the
State and Federal jurisdictions, this court, in the case of -Fox
v. State f O7tio, have taken care to point out that the same act
might, as to its character and tendencies, and the consequences
it involved, constitute an offence against both the State and
Federal governments, and might draw to its commission the
penalties denounced by either, as appropriate to its character in
reference to each. We hold this distinction sound;" and the
conviction was sustained. The subject came up again for discussion in the case of Moore v. State of Illinois (14 id. 13), in
which the plaintiff in error had been convicted under a State
law for harboring and secreting a negro slave, which was contended to be properly an offence against the United States
under the fugitive-slave law of 1793, and not an offence against
the State. The objection of double punishment was again
raised. Mr. Justice Grier, for the court, said: " Every citizen
of the United States is also a citizen of a State or Territory.
He may be said to owe allegiance to two sovereigns, and may
be liable to punishment for an infraction of the laws of either.
The same act may be an offence or transgression of the laws of
both." Substantially the same views are expressed in United
States v. Cruikshank (92 U. S. 542), referring to these cases ;
and we do not well see how the doctrine they contain can be
controverted. A variety of instances may be readily suggested,
in which it would be necessary or proper to apply it. Suppose,
for example, a State judge having power under the naturaliza-

Oct. 1879.]

Ex PARTE SIEBOLD.

tion laws to admit aliens to citizenship should utter false certificates of naturalization, can it be doubted that he could be
indicted under the act of Congress providing penalties for that
offence, even though he might also, under the State laws, be
indictable for forgery as well as liable to impeachment ? So, if
Congress, as it might, should pass a law fixing the standard of
weights and measures, and imposing a penalty for sealing false
weights and false measures, but leaving to the States the matter of inspecting and sealing those used by the people, would
not an offender, filling the office of sealer under a State law,
be amenable to the United States as well as to the State ?
If the officers of election, in elections for representatives,
owe a duty to the United States, and are amenable to that government as well as to the State, -as we think they are, - then,
according to the cases just cited, there is no reason why each
should not establish sanctions for the performance of the duty
owed to itself, though referring to the same act.
To maintain the contrary proposition, the case of Common;,ealtk of Kentucky v. Dennison (24 Hoiv. 66) is confidently
relied on by the petitioners' counsel. But there, Congress had
imposed a duty upon the governor of the State which it had no
authority to impose. The enforcement of the clause in the
Constitution requiring the delivery of fugitives from justice was
held not to belong to the United States. It is a purely executive duty, and Congress had no authority to require the governor of a State to execute this duty.
We have thus gone over the principal reasons of a special
character relied on by the petitioners for maintaining the general proposition for which they contend; namely, that in the
regulation of elections for representatives the national and State
governments cannot co-operate, but must act exclusively of each
other; so that, if Congress assumes to regulate the subject at
all, it must assume exclusive control of the whole subject. The
more general reason assigned, to wit, that the nature of sovereignty is such as to preclude the joint co-operation of two sovereigns, even in a matter in which they are mutually concerned,
is not, in our judgment, of sufficient force to prevent concurrent
and harmonious action on the part of the national and State
governments in the election of representatives. It is at most

EX PARTE SIEBOLD.

[Sup. Ct.

an argument ab inconveniente. There is nothing in the Constitution to forbid such co-operation in this case. On the contrary, as already said, we think it clear that the clause of the
Constitution relating to the regulation of such tlections contemplates such co-operation whenever Congress deems it expedient to interfere merely to alter or add to existing regulations
of the State. If the two governments had an entire equality
of jurisdiction, there might be an intrinsic difficulty in such
co-operation. Then the adoption by the State government of
a system of regulations might exclude the action of Congress.
By first taking jurisdiction of the subject, the State would
acquire exclusive jurisdiction in virtue of a well-known principle
applicable to courts having co-ordinate jurisdiction over the
same matter. But no such equality exists in the present case.
The power of Congress, as we have seen, is paramount, and
may be exercised at any time, and to any extent which it
deems expedient; and so far as it is exercised, and no farther,
the regulations effected supersede those of the State which are
inconsistent therewith.
As a general rule, it is no doubt expedient and wise that the
operations of the State and national governments should as fir
as practicable, be conducted separately, in order to. avoid undue
jealousies and jars and conflicts of jurisdiction and power. But
there is no reason for laying this down as a rule of universal
application. It should never be made to override the plain and
manifest dictates of the Constitution itself. We cannot yield
to such a transcendental view of state sovereignty. The Constitution and laws of the United States are the supreme law of
the land, and to these every citizen of every State owes obedience, whether in his individual or official capacity. There are
very few subjects, it is true, in which our system of government,
complikated as it is, requires or gives room for conjoint action
between the State and national sovereignties. Generally, the
powers given by the Constitution to the government of the
United States are given over distinct branches of sovereignty
from which the State governments, either expressly or by necessary implication, are excluded. But in this case, expressly,
and in some others, by implication, as we have seen in the case
of pilotage, a concurrent jurisdiction is contemplated, that of

Oct. 1879.]

EX PARTE SIEBOLD.

the State, however, being subordinate to that of the United
States, whereby all question of precedency is eliminated.
In what we have said, it must be remembered that we are
dealing only with the subject of elections of representatives to
Congress. If for its own convenience a State sees fit to elect
State and county officers at the same time and in conjunction
with the election of representatives, Congress will not be
thereby deprived of the right to make regulations in reference
to the latter. We do not mean to say, however, that for any
acts of the officers of election, having exclusive reference to the
election of State or county officers, they will be amenable to
Federal jurisdiction; nor do we understand that the enactments of Congress now under consideration have any application
to such acts.
It must also be remembered that we are dealing with the
question of power, not of the expediency of any regulations
which Congress has made. That is not within the pale of our
jurisdiction.' In exercising the power, however, we are bound
to presume that Congress has done so in a judicious manner;
that it has endeavored to guard as far as possible against any
unnecessary interference with State laws and regulations, with
the duties of State officers, or with local prejudices. It could
not act at all so as to accomplish any beneficial object in
preventing frauds and violence, and securing the faithful
performance of duty at the elections, without providing for
the presence of officers and agents to carry its regulations into
effect. It is also difficult to see how it could attain these objects without imposing proper sanctions and penalties against
offendero.
The views we have expressed seem to us to be founded on
such plain and practical principles as hardly to need any labored
argument in theik support. We may mystify any thing. But
if we take a plain view of the words of the Constitution, and
give to them a fair and obvious interpretation, we cannot fail
in most cases of coming to a clear understanding of its meaning.
We shall not have far to seek. We shall find it on the surface,
and not in the profound depths of speculation.
The greatest difficulty in coming to a just conclusion arises
from mistaken notions with regard to the relations which sub-

EX PARTE SIEBOLD.

[Sup. Ot.

sist between the State and national governments. It seems to
be often overlooked that a national constitution has been
adopted in this country, establishing a real government therein,
operating upon persons and territory and things; and which,
moreover, is, or should be, as dear to every American citizen
as his State government is. Whenever the true conception of
the nature of this government is once conceded, no real difficulty
will arise in the just interpretation of its powers. But if we
allow ourselves to regard it as a hostile organization, opposed
to the proper sovereignty and dignity of the State governments,
we shall continue to be vexed with difficulties as to its jurisdiction and authority. No greater jealousy is required to be
exercised towards this government in reference to the preservation of our liberties, than is proper to be exercised towards
the State governments. Its powers are limited in number, and
clearly defined; and its action within the scope of those powers
is restrained by a sufficiently rigid bill of rights for the protection of its citizens from oppression. The true interest of
the people of this country requires that both the national and
State governments should be allowed, without jealous interference on either side, to exercise all the powers which respectively
belong to them according to a fair and practical construction
of the Constitution. State rights and the rights of the United
States should be equally respected. Both are essential to the
preservation of our liberties and the perpetuity of our institutions. But, in endeavoring to vindicate the one, we should not
allow our zeal to nullify or impair the other.
Several other questions bearing upon the present controversy
have been raised by the counsel of the petitioners. Somewhat
akin to the argument which has been considered is the objection
that the deputy marshals authorized by the act of Congress to
be created and to attend the elections are authorized to keep
the peace; and that this is a duty which belongs to the State
authorities alone. It is argued that the preservation of peace
and good order in society is not within the powers confided to
the government of the United States, but belongs exclusively
to the States. Here again we are met with the theory that.the
government of the United States does not rest upon the soil
and territory of the country. We think that this theory is

Oct. 1879.]

EX PARTE SIEBOLD.

founded on an entire misconception of the nature and powers
of that government. We hold it to be an incontrovertible
principle, that the government of the United States may, by
means of physical force, exercised through its official agents,
execute on every foot of American soil the powers and functions
that belong to it. This necessarily involves the power to conniand obedience to its laws, and hence the power to keep the
peace to that extent.
This power to enforce its laws and to execute its functions
in all places does not derogate from the power of the State to
exeecite irs-laws at the. same time and in the same places. The
one does not exclude the other, except where both cannot be
executed at the same time. In that case, the words of the
Constitution itself show which is to yield. "This Constitution,
and all laws which shall be made in pursuance thereof,... shall
be the supreme law of the land."
This concurrent jurisdiction which the national government
necessarily possesses to exercise its powers of sovereignty in
all parts of the United States is distinct from that exclusive
power which, by the first article of the Constitution, it is
authorized to exercise over the District of Columbia, and over
those places within a State which are purchased by consent
of the legislature thereof, for the erection of forts, magazines, aisenals, dock-yards, and.other needful buildings. There
its jurisdiction is absolutely exclusive of that of the State,
unless, as is sometimes stipulated, power is given to the latter to serve the ordinary process of its courts in the precinct
acquired.
Without the concurrent sovereignty referred to, the national
government would be nothing but an advisory government. Its
executive power would be absolutely nullified.
Why do we have marshals at all, if they cannot physically
lay their hands on persons and things in the performance of
their proper duties? What functions can they perform, if they
cannot use force ? In executing the processes of the courts,
must they call on the nearest constable for protection? must
they rely on him to use the requisite compulsion, and to keep
the peace whilst they a're soliciting and entreating the parties
and bystanders to allow th-e law to take its course ? This is

EX PARTE SIEBOLD.

(Sup. Ct.

the necessary consequence of the positions that are assumed.
If we indulge in such impracticable views as these, and keep
on refining and re-refining, we shall drive the national government out of the United States, and relegate it to the District
of Columbia, or perhaps to some foreign soil. We shall bring
it back to a condition of greater helplessness than that of the
old confederation.
The argument is based on a strained and impracticable view
of the nature and powers of the national government. It must
execute its powers, or it is no government. It must execute
them on the land as well as on the sea, on things as well as on
persons. And, to do this, it must necessarily have power to
command obedience, preserve order, and keep the peace; and
no person or power in this land has the right to resist or question its authority, so long as it keeps within the bounds of its
jurisdiction. Without specifying other instances in which this
power to preserve order and keep the peace unquestionably
exists, take the very case in hand. The counsel for the petitioners concede that Congress may, if it sees fit, assume the
entire control and regulation of the election of representatives. This would necessarily involve the appointment of the
places for holding the polls, the times of voting, and the officers for holding the election; it would require the regulation of
the duties to be performed, the custody of the ballots, the mode
of ascertaining the result, and every other matter relating to
the subject. Is it possible that Congress could not, in that case,
provide for keeping the peace at such elections, and for arresting and punishing those guilty of breaking it? If it could not,
its power would be but a shadow and a name. But, if Congress can do this, where is the difference in principle in its
making provision for securing the preservation of the peace, so
as to give to every citizen his free right to vote without molestation or injury, when it assumes only to supervise the regulations
made by the State, and not to supersede them entirely? In our
judgment, there is no difference; and, if the power exists in the
one case, it exists in the other.
The next point raised is, that the act of Congress proposes to
operate on officers or persons authorized by State laws to perform certain duties under them, and to require them to disobey

Oct. 1879.]

EX PARTE SIEBOLD.

and disregard State laws when they come in conflict with the act
of Congress; that it thereby of necessity produces collision, and
is therefore void. This point has been already fully considered.
Wre have shown, as we think, that, where the regulations of
Congress conflict with those of the State, it is the latter which
are void, and not the regulations of Congress; and that the
laws of the State, in so far as they are inconsistent with
the laws of Congress on the same subject, cease to have
effect as laws.
Finally, it is objected that the act of Congress imposes upon
the Circuit Court duties not judicial, in requiring them to appoint the supervisors of election, whose duties, it is alleged, are
entirely executive in their character. It is contended that no
power can be conferred upon. the courts of the United States to
appoint officers whose duties are not connected with the judicial department of the government.
The Constitution declares that" the Congress may, by law,
vest the appointment of such inferior officers as they think
proper, in the President alone, in the courts of law, or in the
heads of departments." It is no doubt usual anA proper to vest
the appointment of inferior officers in that department of the
government, executive or judicial, or in that particular executive department to which the duties of such officers appertain.
But there is no absolute requirement to this effect in the Constitution; and, if there were, it would be difficult in many
cases to determine to which department an office properly
belonged. Take that of marshal, for instance. He is ana
executive officer, whose appointment, in ordinary cases, is left
to the President and Senate. But if Congress should, as it
might, vest the appointment elsewhere, it would be questionable whether it should be in the President alone, in the
Department of Justice, or in the courts. The marshal is
pre-eminently the officer of the courts; and, in case of a
vacancy, Congress has in fact passed a law bestowing the
temporary appointment of the marshal upon the justice of
the circuit in which the district where the vacancy occurs is
situated.
But as the Constitution stands, the selection of the appointing power, as between the functionaries named, is a mattei

898

EX PARTE SIEBOLD.

[Sup. Ct.

resting in the discretion of Congress. And, looking at the
,subject in a practical light, it is perhaps better that it should
rest there, than that the country should be harassed by the
endless controversies to ,which a morb specific direction on this
subject might have given rise. The observation in the case of
Hennen, to which reference is made (13 Pet. 258), that the
appointing power in the clause referred to "was no doubt
intended to be exercised by the department of the government
to which the official to be appointed most appropriately belonged," was not intended to define the constitutional power of
Congress in this regard, but rather to express the law or rule
by which it should be governed. The cases in which the
courts have declined to exercise certain duties imposed by
Congress, stand upon a different consideration from that which
applies in the present case. The law of 1792, which required
the circuit courts to examine claims to revolutionary pensions,
and the law of 1849, authorizing the district judge of Florida
to examine and adjudicate upon claims for injuries suffered by
the inhabitants of Florida from the American army in 1812,
were rightfully held to impose upon the courts powers not
judicial, and were, therefore, void. But the duty to appoint
inferior officers, when required thereto by law, is .constitu
tional duty of the courts; and in the present case there is no
such incongruity in the duty required as to excuse the courts
from its performance, or to render their acts void. It cannot
be affirmed that the appointment of the officers in question
could, with any greater propriety, and certainly not with equal
regard to convenience, have been assigned to any other depositary of official power capable of exercising it. Neither the
President, nor any head of department, could have been equally
competent to the task.
In our judgment, Congress had the power to vest the appointment of the supervisors in question in the circuit courts.
The doctrine laid down at the close of counsel's brief, that
the State and national governments are co-ordinate and altogether equal, on which their whole argument, indeed, is based,
is only partially true.
The true doctrine, as we conceive, is this, that whilst the
States are really sovereign as to all matters which have not

Oct. 18.79.]

Ex PARTE CL 1RKE.

been granted to the jurisdiction and control of the United
States, the Constitution and constitutional laws of the latter
are, as we have already said, the supreme law of the land; and,
when they conflict with the laws of the States, they are of
paramount authority and obligation. This is the fundamental
principle on which the authority of -the Constitution is based;
and unless it be conceded in pracice, as well as theory, the
fabric of our institutions, as it was contemplated by its founders,
cannot stand. The questions involved have respect not more
to the autonomy and existence of the States, than to the continued existence of the United States as a government to which
every American citizen may look for security and protection in
every part of the land.
We think that the cause Qf commitment in these cases was
lawful, and that the application for the writ of habeas corpus
must be denied.
Application denied.
MR. JUSTICE CLhFORD and MB. JUSTICE F=LD dissented.

See MR. JUSTICE FiFm's opinion infra, p. 404.

Ex PiARTE CrARxE.
1. An officer of election, at an election foi a representative to Congress in the
city of Cincinnati, was convicted of a misdemeanor in the Circuit Court of
the United States, under sect. 5515 of tle Revised Statutes, for a violation
of the law of Ohio, in not conveying the ballot-box, after it had been sealed
up and delivered to him for that purpose, to the county clerk, and for
allowing it to be broken open. Hdd, according to the decision in Exparte
SIold (supra, p. 371), that Congress had power to pass the law under
which the conviction was had, and that the Circuit Court had jurisdiction
of the offence.
2. In such a case, a habeas corpus for discharge from imprisonment under the
conviction was rightfully issued by a justice of this court, returnable before
himself; and he had the right, if it could be done without injury to the
prisoner, to refer the matter to this court for its determination, it being a
case which involved the exercise of appellate jurisdiction.
8. ]lad the case involved original jurisdiction only, this court could not have
taken jurisdiction of it.

