EMBRY V. UNITED STATES.

EMERBY

[Sup. Ct

v. UNITED STATES.

April 20, 1867, the President duly commissioned A. as deputy postmaster at
Nashville, Tenn., for the term of four years, ", subject to the conditions prescribed by law," and May 5, 1869, under the act of April 5, 1869 (10 Stat. 0),
signed an order suspending him from office until the end of the next session
of the Senate, and designating B. to perform the duties of that office. A.
delivered the office to B. May 27, 1869. The nomination of B. was sent to
the Senate at its next session, which terminated July 15, 1870, and on that
date it was rejected. Pursuant to instructions from the Post-office Department, A. took possession of said office July 25, 1870. B., when holding the
office, received the salary. A. brought suit therefor against the United States.
Held, that he was not entitled to recover.

from the Court of Claims.
This was a suit in the court below by Bowling Embry to
recover $4,644.75 as the amount of salary claimed to be due
him as deputy postmaster at Nashville, Tenn., from May 27,
1869, to July 25, 1870.
The court found the following *facts:1. On the 20th of April, 1867, the claimant was appointed
by the President of the United States, by and with the advice
and consent of the Senate, deputy postmaster at Nashville, in the
State of Tennessee, for the term of four years from that day, and
the commission issued to him was in the following words: APPEAL

"ANDmEw JoHrmsoN, President of the United States of America,
to all who shall see these presents, greeting:
"Know ye, that, reposing special trust and confidence in the
integrity, ability, and punctuality of Bowling Embry, I have
nominated, and, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate,
do appoint him deputy postmaster at Nashville, in the State of
Tennessee, and do authorize and empower him to execute and fulfil
the duties of that office according to law; and to have and to hold
the said office, with all the powers, privileges, and emoluments to the
same of right appertaining, unto him, the said Bowling Embry, for
the term of four years fiom the day of the date hereof, subject to
the conditions prescribed by law.
"In testimony whereof, I have caused these letters to be made
patent and the seal of the United States to be .hereunto affixed.
"Given under my hand, at the city of Washington, the twentieth
day of April, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred

Oct. 1879.]

EMBERY V).UNITED STATES.

and sixty-seven, and of the independence of the United States of
America the ninety-first.
[L. s.]
"ANDrEw JoHmsox.
"By the President:
"W.LI i H. SEWARD, Secretary of State."
2. Under this appointment the claimant entered upon the
discharge of the duties of said office, and continued therein
until the 27th of May, 1869, when, in consequence of an order
made by the President of the United States, under the act of
April 5, 1869, suspending him from said office, he delivered
over said office to one Enos Hopkins, who had been designated
by the President to perform the duties of deputy postmaster at
Nashville, and the commission authorizing him to perform
said duties was in the following words: "ULYssEs S. GnR WT, President of the United States of America,
to all who shall see these presents, greeting:
"Know ye, that by virtue of the authority conferred upon the
President by the second section of the act of Congress, approved
April 5, 1867, entitled ' An Act to amend an act regulating the tenure of certain civil offices,' I do hereby suspend Bowling Embry
fiom the office of deputy postmaster at Nashville, in the State of
Tennessee, until the end of the next session of the Senate; and I
hereby designate Enos Hopkins to perform the duties of such suspended officer in the mean time, he being a suitable person therefor,
subject to all provisions of law applicable thereto.
"In testimony whereof, I have caused these letters to be made
patent, and the seal of the United States to be hereunto affixed.
"Given under my hand, at the city of Washington, the fifth
day of May, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred
and sixty-nine, and of the independence of the United -States of
America the ninety-third.
[L. s.]
"U. S. GRANT.
"By the President:
1HAMILToN FISH, Secretary of State."
3. On the 6th of December, 1869, the President nominated the
said Hopkins to the Senate for appointment as deputy postmaster
at Nashville, and on the 15th of July, 1870, the Senate resolved
that it did not advise and consent to that appointment.
4. On the 21st of July, 1870, the following communication
was addressed and sent by the First Assistant PostmasterGeneral to the claimant: -

EMBRY V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. CL.

"POsT-OFFICE DEPARTmENT, APPOINTMENT OFFICE,
"WASHINGTON, D. C., July 21, 1870.

"Sm,-In the case of Enos Hopkins, rejected by the Senate of
the United States, under date of July 15, 1876, he is, under the
provisions of the act of March 2, 1867, and April 5, 1869, regulating
the tenure of certain civil offices, inhibited from holding, exercising,
or discharging any of the duties pertaining to the office of postmaster at Nashville, Tenn. You should take charge of said office at
once under your unexpired commission, for the time being and
until the case can be submitted to the Attorney-General. Upon
taking charge of the office you will receipt to Mr. Hopkins (in
duplicate) for all the public property in his possession, and report
the date of your doing so to this office.
"Very respectfully, &c.,
" J. W.

MARSHALL,

".First Assistant Postmaster-General
"BOWLING

EmiBrx, Esq., Nashville, Tenn."

In pursuance of the authority of said communication, the claimant again took possession of said office on the 25th of July, 1870.
5. While the claimant was in possession of said office, priol
and up to the 27th of May, 1869, he gave his personal attention to the business thereof to the entire satisfaction of the
Post-office Department and of the people of Nashville, and
punctually and promptly rendered to the Sixth Auditor of the
Treasury his accounts of all moneys collected and disbursed by
him during that period, and promptly paid over to the United
States all balances due from him to them, and his account
was satisfactorily settled and adjusted on the books of the said
auditor's office.
6. During the whole period from May 27, 1866, to July 25,
1870, and afterward, the.salary of said office was fixed by the
Postmaster-General at the rate of $4,000 per annum; and the
same amounted for that period to 84,645.47, which was paid to
said Hopkins, and refused to the claimant, who applied to the
Postmaster-General for payment of the same to him.
Upon the foregoing facts the court found as a conclusion of
law that the claimant was not entitled to recover.
Judgment having been rendered for the United States, Embry appealed, and here assigns the following errors: -

Oct. 1879.]

EMBRY V. UNITED STATES.

The Court of Claims erred in holding as matter of law upon
the facts found that the claimant was not entitled to the salary
of the office during the time he was suspended.
The court erred in holding that the claimant was not entitled to the said salary from the end of the next session of the
Senate, after his suspension, even if not entitled to it during
the time he was suspended,
31r. ilfatt. Hf. Carpenter and .3r.J. i. .Embryfor the appellant.
1. An act of Congress which provides that a suspended officer shall not receive the salary and emoluments of the office is
unconstitutional.
The appointment gives the officer a legal right to the salary
by law attached to the office, until he is removed, resigns, dies,
or his term expires. Marbury v. .lIadison, 1 Cranch, 137.
The Constitution provides that the President shall nominate,
and by and with the advice and consent of the Senate appoint,
all officers of the United States. The power of removal is an
incident to the power to appoint, and must be exercised by the
President and Senate together. An act of Congress cannot
vest the power of removal elsewhere. From this it follows
that the claimant never was removed from the office, and, consequently, that he is entitled to the salary for the whole term.
2. Conceding the act of Congress in question to be constitutional, and that the claimant was not entitled to the salary
during the period of his suspension, still, that period being fixed
by the statute to expire on the termination of the next session
of the Senate, it follows that from that day he was entitled to
the salary. The judgment of the Court of Claims is erroneous
to this extent, even should the act be held constitutional.
.Vie Attorney- Ceneral, contra.
MR. CIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinioni of the court.
By the tenure-of-office act, passed March 2, 1867 (14 Stat.
4:30), it was enacted that every person appointed to a civil
office by and with the advice and consent of the Senate should
hold his office until his successor should be in like manner
appointed and duly qualified, except as therein otherwise
provided; but the President was authorized during the recess

EMBRY V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

of the Senate to suspend an officer for misconduct, crime, or
incapacity. In case of suspension, the President could designate some suitable person to perform temporarily the duties
of the office until the matter should be acted on by the Senate
when in session. If the Senate concurred in the suspension,
and advised and consented to the removal, the President
might remove and by and with the advice and consent of the
Senate appoint another person to the office. If, however, the
Senate refused to concur, the officer suspended might resume
the functions of his office, but his salary and emoluments dur.
ing the suspension went to the person who performed his duties,
and not to him.
On the 20th of April, 1867, while this law was in" force,
Embry, the appellant, was, by and with the advice and consent
of the Senate, appointed and commissioned postmaster at Nashville, Tenn., the salary being at the rate of $4,000 a year. By
his commission, he was to hold his office for four years, "subject
to the conditions prescribed by law."
On the 5th of April, 1869, the original tenure-of-office act
was amended, so as to authorize the President in the recess of
the Senate to suspend an officer at his discretion until the end
of the then next session of the Senate, and to designate some
person to perform the duties of the office in the mean time, who
should be entitled to the salary and emoluments while he
served, instead of the officer suspended. 16 Stat. 6.
Under the authority of this act, Embry was suspended from
office on the 5th of May, 1869, during a recess of the Senate,
and Enos Hopkins designated to perform his duties. Embry,
however, remained in the office until May 27. The Senate did
not advise or consent to the appointment of any one to fill the
place of Embry during its next session, which terminated July
15, 1870, and he was, on the 21st of July, notified to resume
the charge of his office, which he did on the 25th of that
month. The salary from May 27, 1869, to July 25, 1870, was
paid to Hopkins. This suit was brought by Embry to recover
for the same time. The Court of Claims decided against him,
and ie appealed.
We have had no difficulty in reaching the conclusion that the
appellant is not entitled to recover. The important constitu-

Oct. 1879.]

EMBRY V. UNITED STATES.

tional question which has at times occupied the attention of
the political department of the government ever since its
organization, and which was brought to our attention in the
argument, is not, as we think, involved. The question here
presented is not one of office, but of salary. Wherever the
power of removal from office may rest, all agree that Congress
has full control of salaries, except those of the President and
the judges of the courts of the United States. The amount
fixed at any one time may be added to or taken from at will.
No officer except the President or a judge of a court of the
United States can claim a contract right to any particular
amount of unearned compensation. If an officer is not satisfied
with what the law gives him for his services, he may resign.
When Embry was appointed, the 'President had power to
suspend him for cause. The law also provided that if suspended he should draw no salary so long as another person
was performing his duties. While he was in office, further
power of suspension was given the President, with a like provision as to pay. He was suspended. ' The Senate did not see
fit to advise or consent to the appointment of another-person
in his place, and consequently, on the 15th of July, 1870,
when the next session of the Senate ended, he became entitled
to enter again on the performance of the duties which pertained to his office. This he did on the 27th of July, but not
before. His present claim rests not on any contract with the
government, either express or implied, but upon the acts of Congress which provide for his salary. Weso held in Unite- States
v. 3lcLean, 95 U. S. 750. To adjudge in his favor would be to
make a iiew law, not to enforce an old one. Although he
was lawfully irfbffice, he was not entitled to pay or emolument
while not performing its duties because of his suspension.
It is true his lawful suspension ended on the 15th of July,
but he did not resume possession until ten days afterwards.
In the mean time, the person designated for that purpose performed his duties. Under these circumstances, the law gave
the salary to the actual incumbent and not to him. The delay
was an incident to the suspension, and does not seem to have
been unreasonable. No more time elapsed than was necessary
to give the proper notices and transfer the possession.
J'udgment affirmed.

