OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Syllabus.

254 U. S.

to attribute his misfortune to the defendant's conduct
alone, whatever difficulties there might be in the case of
an older person; and we perceive no other ground for not
allowing the verdict and the decision of the two courts
below to stand.
Judgment affirmed.

CENTRAL UNION TRUST COMPANY OF NEW
.YORK, INDIVIDUALLY AND AS TRUSTEE, &c.,
v. GARVAN, AS ALIEN PROPERTY CUSTODIAN.
MERRILL ET AL., INDIVIDUALLY AND AS
TRUSTEES, &c., v. SAME,.
MARSHALL ET AL., AS TRUSTEES, &c., v. SAME.
MARSHALL ET AL., AS TRUSTEES, &c., v. SAME.
METROPOLITAN TRUST COMPANY OF THE CITY
" OF NEW YORK, TRUSTEE, &c., v. SAME.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEAL8 FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
Nos. 392-39.

Argued January 10, 11, 192L-Decided January 24, 1921.

1. Decrees of the Circuit Court of Appeals affirming decrees of the
District Court, placing the Alien Property Custodian in possession
of property in libel proceedings brought by him undor the Trading with the Enemy Act, head reviewable in this court by writ of
error. P. 566.

2. Congress has power in war time to provide for immediate seizure,
inpaia or through a court, of property supposed to belong to the
enemy, leaving the question of enemy ownership ved non to be
settled later at the suit of the claimant. P. 566.
3. Under § 17 of the Trading with the Enemy Act of October 6, 1917,

CENTRAL TRUST CO. v. GARVAN.
554.

Argument for Plaintiffs in-Error in Nos. 392, 393.

which confers on the District Court jurisdiction to make all such
orders and decrees as may be necessary and proper to enforce the
provisions of the act, those courts have jurisdiction to enforce the
demands of the Alien Property Custodian for the delivery of property to the possession of which the act entitles him. P. 566.
4. The Trading with the Enemy Act, § 7 (c), provides that, "If the
President shall so require, any money or other property
held . . . for the benefit of an enemy," without license, 'which
the President after investigation shall determine ; . . is so
held, shall be conveyed, transferred, assigned, delivered, or paid
over to the alien property custodian." Held, that, upon a determination after investigation by the Custodian, exercising the
President's power by delegation under § 5 of the act, that certain
securities were held by trustees for the benefit of enemy insurance
companies, followed by demand, the duty arose to deliver them to the
Custodian; that the question of enemy property el non could not
be inquired into in his suit to compel delivery, but rights in that
regard could be asserted and protected by claim, and if necessary
suit, for return of the property, under § 9, as amended. P. 567
5. Proceedings of this character are alternative to direct seizure by
the Custodian under § 7 (c) of the act as amended by the Act of
November 4, 1918, and involve only.the right to possession. P. 568.
(linkenbeardv. United Stares, 21 Wall. 65, distinguished.
6. In so far as concerns claimants who proceed as allowed by amended
§ 9, a proceeding like the present gives a mere preliminary custody,
although in other respects the Custodian .may get a conveyance
under the act, with broad powers of management and disposition
under § 12, as amended. P. 569.
265 Fed. Rep. 477; id. 481, affirmed.

TaE cases are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Pem D. Trafford for plaintiffs in error in Nos. 392
and 393:
It is plain from the language of the Trading with the
Enemy Act--and especially when the words selected are
contrasted sharply with those proposed in the bill as
originally introduced in Congress-that the property
thereby directed to be transferred to the Alien Property
Custodian is enemy property only.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error in Nos. 392, 393.

254 U. S.

The property which has been libeled is not enemy
property but a trust fund, legally established, owned by
an American citizen, and held by it primarily, if not
wholly, for the benefit of American policyholders and
creditors.
The very point involved has been passed upon by the
courts in cases arising under the Confiscation Act of 1862,
12 Stat. 589, §§ 5 and 6. This act authorized the seizure
"of all the estate and property, moneys, stocks and
credits of" certain classes of persons. This is essentially
the same as "any money or other property" of certain
classes of persons in the Trading with the Enemy Act.
Day v. Micou, 18 Wall. 156, 161; In re Marcuard,20 Wall.
114, 115; Burbank v. Conrad, 96 U. S. 291, 293; Conrad
v. Waples, 96 U. S. 279, 285.
Section 8 (a) of the Trading with the Enemy Act was
not intended to enlarge the description contained in § 7 (c)
of the property required to be transferred to the Custodian.
Even if the act should be construed as relating to all
property which the Custodian after investigation may
determine to be enemy property, yet, when he asks the.
aid of the court, and it appears upon the undisputed
facts that he is not entitled as a matter of law to the
relief he seeks, such relief should be denied. That a court
of law will review the conclusion of an administrative
officer upon admitted facts, and that such an officer cannot confer jurisdiction upon himself by his mistake as to
the law, is settled by the authorities.
The amendment to § 7 (c) providing in substance that
the sole remedy of any person having a claim to any property transferred to the Custodian shall be that provided
by the terms of the act, refers to relief sought affirmatively,
by some person in relation to property which has passed
into the actual or constructive possession of the Custodiar It i similar to the requirement that a receiver
who has taken possession of property shall be sued only

CENTRAL TRUST CO. v. GARVAN.
554.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error in Nos. 39, 395.

in the court which appointed him. And the situation
created by this amendment is not essentially different
from that existing under our tax laws. Clinkenbeard v.
United States, 21 Wall. 65.
. Under any view the trustees are entitled to their day
in court before they can be required to deliver the property
from their possession to the Custodian.
Mr. Emory R. Buckner, with whom Mr. Gerard C.
Henderson and Mr. H. H. Nordlinger were on the brief,
for plaintiffs in error in Nos. 394 and 395:
The court may in this proceeding inquire whether the
property was hold for the benefit of an enemy, within the
meaning of § 7 (c) of the Trading with the Enemy Act.
Enemy property may be of three kinds: (1) Property
subject to capture at sea, (2) property subject to capture
on land, and (3) property which cannot be captured at
all, but which may with proper legislative authority be
confiscated by appropriate legal proceedings. As for
the occasion and effect of capture at sea and the necessity
for subsequent judicial proceedings fully protecting the
owner, see: Lamar v. Browne, 92 U. S. 187; Manila Prize
Cases, 188 U. S. 254, 278; Jlcker v. Montgomery, 13 How.
498, 516; Kent Comm., 13th ed., vol. 1, pp. 101, 102;
The Flad Oyen, 1 C. Rob. 135; Sawyer v Maine Ins.
Co., 12 Massachusetts, 291, 295; The Siren, Fed. Cas.
No. 12,911; Bradstreet v. Neptune Ins. Co., 3 Sumner, 600;
Moore's Digest, vol. 7, p. 630.
As to property on land, a sharp distinction is drawn
between property subject to capture and property subject
to confiscation. While the Constitution gives to Congre~s
power to "make rules concerning captures on land and
water," it is of course clear that without any legislation
the military forces in the field have the power to capture
any property in the hands of the hostile forces, or used or
intended to be used for hostile purposes. Kirk v. Lynd,

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error in Nos. 394, 395.

254 U. S.

106 U. S. 315, 317. There are only two requisites: (1)
That the property be used or intended for. hostile purposes, or peculiarly adapted to hostile use, and (2) that it
be captured in the course of military activities. See Mrs.
Alexander's Cotton, 2 Wall. 404; Planters' Bank v. Union
Bank, 16 Wall. 483. The capture, "flagrante bello," of
property used for hostile purposes has nothing to do with
the ownership and involves no question upon which the
courts cana*
ct. It rests upon military necessity. Hence,
it is not sur'rising that with respect to movables the act
of capture, immediately and without judicial proceedings,
vests title in the government.
It follows as a corollary that no one, not even a loyal
citizen or neutral, has redreis in the courts for an unauthorized capture, unless Congress, as a matter of grace,
grants a remedy. To permit suit against the military
officers would hamper their conduct of military operations.
Lamar v. Browne, supra. The government cannot be sued
without its consent, and if there is no consent there is
merely a wrong without a remedy.
In the Civil War, Congress granted a remedy under
specific limitations. Abandoned Property Act of March
12, 1863, 12 Stat. 820; United States v. Anderson, 9 Wall.
56, 65; United States v. Padelford, 9 Wall. 531; Confiscation Act of August 6, 1861, 12 Stat. 319; Kirk v. Lynd,
106 U. S.315; Miller v. United States, 11 Wall. 268.
In the case of property not taken flagrante bello, or by
special legislative authority because used for hostile purposes, but property outside the field of hostilities, there
is the right to confiscation because of its enemy ownership, under proper legislation. Brown v. United States, 8
Cranch, 109. But the Act of July 12, 1862, 12 Stat. 589,
passed for this purpose, was sharply distinguished in the
legal and constitutional theory upon which it was based,
from either of the two acts previously, considered. The
Confiscation Act conferred on the Government a right

CENTRAL TRUST CO. v. GARVAN.
554.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error in Nos. 394, 395.

not previously existing. The Abandoned Property Act
recognized an existing right in the Government, and conferred a remedy on certain persons injured thereby. "The
ope is penal, the other remedial; the one claims a right,
the other concedes a privilege." United States v. Anderson, supra. The Abandoned Property Act covered only
property in enemy territory, seized flagrante bello by the
military authorities. United States v. Padelford, supra;
Planters' Bank v. Union Bank, supra. The Confiscation
Act covered only property in loyal States and did not
authorize military seizure. Planters' Bank v. Union
Bank, supra. The Abandoned Property Act recognized
that title to hostile property captured by the military
vested forthwith in the United States. The Confiscation
Act recognized that property not captured by the military,
and not affected by hostile use, could not be forfeited to
the United States without legal proceedings. United
States v. Anderson, supra, p. 66.
Equally significant is the distinction drawn by this
court between the Confiscation Act of 1861 and the Confiscation Act of 1862. Kirk v. Lynd, supra, 319; Bigelow
v. Forrest, 9 Wall. 339, 350; United States v. Anderson,
supra, 67. When a military commander finds property
used for hostile purposes he must act at once. He may
seize the property and send it behind the lines; or he may
destroy it on the spot. But where the only purpose is to
cripple the enemy financially by confiscating his subjects'
.property, there is plenty of time for deliberate adjudication. There is no conceivable reason (aside from the
natural impatience of executive officers with any .judicial
restraint upon their powers) why disputed questions of
ownership should not be adjudicated, in an orderly way,
before the seizure is complete. Custody of the property,
throughout the proceedings, is in the court. Any decision
may properly relate back to the date of capture. -Every
interest of the Government is fairly protected. And there

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error in Nos. 394, 395. 254 U. 8.

are preserved to the owners of property the inestimable
benefits of due process of law.
The Trading with the Enemy Act should be examined
in the ligLt of these decisions.
The act as amended gives the Custodian more than a
mere possessory right to enemy property seized by him.
Immediately upon seizure, indeed upon mere requirement that the property be transferred, the Custodian acquires the right to sell, for any reason satisfactory to
himself, and to deal with the property "as though he
were the absolute owner theieof." Such a right is not
reconcilable with any theory of provisional custody. It
is not like the Confiscation Act of 1862. The provisional
seizure authorized in that act ras open to collateral attack,
and the determination upon which it was made was not
binding on the courts. Day v. Micou, 18 Wall. 156, 161.
Nor is there the slightest analogy between the right of
seizure conferred on the Custodian and the rights of temporary possession conferred upon a naval commander by
capture. The naval commander, like the military officer,
must act at once, upon appearances; the Custodian is
under no such necessity. Moreover, the naval commander's right to possession is qualified 'by an absolute
duty (which may yield only to imperious military necessity), to submit his rights to a court at the earliest possible
opportunity. If he does not, he may lose the ship, even
though the original capture was rightful. The Custodian
is under no such duty of vindicating his right to possession
after the property has been seized. The absence of such
a safeguard argues strongly against the intention of Congress to confer -upon the Custodian a right to take possession free from review by the courts. The right in the
claimant to institute a suit under § 9 is of slight value in
comparison.
The Custodian's determination, therefore, cannot be
conclusive. United States v. Anderson, aupra; Jecker v.

CENTRAL TRUST CO. .v. GARVAN.
554.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Errorin Nos. 394, 395.

Montgomery, supra. There is a generic difference between
executive decisions made in the course of administration;
which incidentally affect personal or property rights, and
decisions made in proceedings whose only object is the
confiscation of property because of the nationality or
conduct of the owner. Lawton v.' Steele, 152 U. S. 133,
140; Rockwell v. Nearing, 35 N. Y. 302; Dunn v. BurleiQh,
62 Maine, 24; LON" v. Rainwater, 70 Missouri, 152.
And the Custodian, being authorized to seize only enemy
property, exceeds his jurisdiction, and his decision in any
event is reviewable by the courts, if the property is in
truth non-enemy. See Burfenning v. Chicago &c. Ry.
Co., 163 U. S. 321, 323.
Cases under the Confiscation Act of 1862 afford a
parallel so close as to be decisive upon this point. Bigow
v. Forrest, 9 Wall. 339, 351; Day v. Micou, 18 Wall. 156,
161, 162; Conrad v. Waples, 96 U. S. 279; Burbank v.
Conrad, 96 U. S. 291; Waples v. United States, 110 U. S.
630; Avegno v. Schmidt, 113 U. S. 293; Shields v. Schiff,
124 U. S. 351. Furthermore, the administrative decision
can be conclusive only upon a question of fact. American
School of Magnetic Healing v. McAnnulty, 187 U. S. 94,
109, 110; Gegiow v. Uhl, 239 U. S. 3.
Having invoked the jurisdiction of the court, libelant
must make out a case according to law. [Citing Clinkenbeard v. United States, 21 Wall. 65, and many other cases.]
The property libeled is not enemy' property. Legal
title to it is vested in American trustees, for the benefit of
American creditors and policyholders. It is therefore not
subject to seizure under the Trading with the Enemy Act.
The constitutional basis of the act, as well as the manifest absurdity and gross injustice of any other construction, mak6 it clear that, as a matter of substantive law,
the act was intended to vest in the Custodian no more
than the interest of the enemy, and this is demonstrated
by its legislative history.

562

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

254 U. S.

The decisions of this court in our own Civil War establish to a demonstration that the only rights vested in
the Custodian by the Trading with the Enemy Act are
the rights belonging to the enemy. Day v. Micou, supra;
In re Marcuard, 20 Wall. 114; Burbank v. Conrad, supra;
Conrad v. Waples, supra; Avegno v. Schmidt, supra; Risley
v. Phenix Bank, 83 N. Y. 318; affd. Il U. S. 125. See
also decisions under the British trading with the enemy
act: In re Ruben [1915], 2 Ch. 313.
Mr. Walter F. Taylor for plaintiff in error in No. 396.
Mr. Lucien H. Boggs, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, and Mr. Assistant Attorney General Spellacy,
with whom The Solicitor General and Mr. Dean Hill
Stanley, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, were
on the briefs, for defendant in error:
The only issue is the right to possession of the securities.
Questions of title are not involved, and the demand of
the Alien Property Custodian, made pursuant to determination after investigation, is conclusive herein.
The general plan of the act has no direct precedent, the
nearest analogy in American or English legislative enactment being the captured and abandoned property acts
of the Civil War period. 12 Stat. 820. In the past, captures of property on land have, in the main, followed the
practice applicable to capture of prizes at sea; and acts
have provided, not for the taking possession and holding
of property subject to future disposition, but for immediate condemnation by appropriate judicial proceedings.
Under that procedure the seizure is merely a preliminary by which the property is brought within, the jurisdiction of some court for judicial determination of its
status as lawful prize, and for condemnation if fouad so
to be. In fact, until the present war, the tendency for
several hundred years had been away from the practice of

CENTRAL TRUST CO. v. GARVAN.
554.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

capturing and confiscating property of the enemy found
on land. The remarkable development of international
trade, commerce and investments which had taken place
during the half century preceding this war, and the development of international credits, made necessary a
change in this practice, if Germany was to be deprived
during this war of the power to utilize for purchases in
neutral countries credits based upon her investments in
the allied countries. These countries, therefore, particularly England, France, Russia, and Italy, all passed legislation by which some public official, holding powers
analogous to those of the Alien Property Custodian, was
authorized to secure possession of enemy property, and,
under certain circumstances, to liquidate enemy investments. No permanent confiscation of enemy property
was decreed by any of these countries, the .ultimate disposition of the property seized being left for future action.
The determination of enemy ownership made pursuant
to the provisions of § 7 (c) is conclusive in so far as the
Custodian's right to possession is concerned; and demands
for the possession of property made by the Custodian
pursuant to this section must be complied with and thereafter judicial determination had with respect to claims
of ownership, as provided by § 9.
This feature of the act, although in some quarters assailed as radical and contrary to all the principles of the
common law, is well justified by precedent. Since almost
the beginning of our Government, it has been the law that
all property taken or detained under authority of any
revenue law of the 'United States shall be irrepleviable,
and subject only to the orders and decrees. of the United
States courts having jurisdiction thereof. Rev. Stats.,
§ 934. The validity of this provision has been sustained
in every decision in which it has been called into question.
Treat v. Staples, Fed; Cas. No. 14,162; Brice v. Elliott,
Fed. Cas. No. 1,854; DeLima v. Bidwell, 182 U. S. 1, 180.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

254 U. S.

Similar legislation with respect to money collected for
customs duties in excess of the amount really due has
also been upheld. Cary v. Curtis, 3 How. 236; Bartlett
v. Kane, 16 How. 263; Arnson v. Murphy, 109 U. S. 238;
and requiring a taxpayer to pay a disputed tax and sue
to recover. Murray v. Hoboken Land Co., 18 How. 272;
Springer v. United States, 102 U. S. 586; Dodge v. Osborn,
240 U. S. 118. Under the Abandoned Property Act of
March 12, 1863, see Haycraft v. United States, 22 WalL
81. See also Barker v. Harvey, 181 U. S. 481; Botiller v.
Dominguez, 130 U. S. 238, 250; Florida V. Furman, 180
U. S. 402; Moyer v. Peabody, 212 U. S. 78; Pacific Live
Stock Co. v. Lewis, 241 U. S. 440.
While the remedy under § 9 remains, in contemplation
of law there is no possibility that a person rightfully entitled to property seized by the Custodian can be materially injured or deprived of property Without due
process of law.
The decisions so far rendered upon the Trading with
the Enemy Act support this contention. Salamandra
Ins. Co. v. New York Life Ins. & Trust Co., 254 Fed.
Rep. 852; American Exchange Bank v. Palmer, 256 Fed.
Rep. 680 (later in effect overruled in the same case);
Keppelmann v. Keppelmann, 89 N. J. Eq. 390, reversed
108 Atl. Rep. 432; Garvan v. $6,000 Bonds, 265 Fed. Rep.
481; Biesantz v. Royal Arcanum, 175 N. Y. S. 46; Kahn v.
Garvan, 263 Fed. Rep. 909; Kohn v. Kohn, 264 Fed.
Rep. 253, and other cases in the lower courts, unreported.
The answer sets up no facts sufficient to justify any
exception in this case to the proposition under discussion.
The fact that the Custodian has resorted to the courts
for the enforcement of his demand does not alter the construction of the act with respect to his right of possession.
It would be a strange perversion of the law to place a
premium upon disobedience to the clear mandates of a
war statute by. holding that when litigation ensues the

CENTRAL TRUST CO. v. GARVAN.
554.

Opinion of the Court.

person who had disobeyed the law had by such disobedience acquired greater rights than the person who had
complied with its requirements.
The facts set forth in the answers confirm the determination of the Custodian and justify his demand. They
establish, if true,- that the securities libeled belonged to
or were held for the Munich Re-Insurance Company
within the purview of § 7 (c); that althcugh policyholders
and creditors of that company within the United States
may have an interest in the nature of security therein,
such interest is not within the scope of § 8 (a); and therefore that the Custodian is entitled to possession of these
securities, leaving the protection of whatsoever rights
these creditors and policyholders, or these claimants on
their behalf, may have to the remedies provided by § 9.
MR. JUsTIcE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
These are libels brought by the Alien Property Custodian under the Trading with the Enemy Act, October 6,
1917, c. 106, § 17, 40 Stat. 411, 425, to obtain possession
of securities in the hands of the plaintiffs in error respectively as trustees. The libel in each case alleges that
the Alien Property Custodian after investigation determined that a German insurance company named was an
enemy not holding a license from the President, &c.; that
certain specified securities belonged to it or were held for
its benefit by the party now appearing as a plaintiff in
error in that case; and that a demand for the property
had been made but not complied with. The libellant
prayed an ordcr directing the marshal to seize the property and citing claimants of a right to possession to show
ca,.ie why the same should not be delivered to him. The
plaintiffs in error appeared as claimants in their several
cases, denied that the funds were held for the benefit of
an enemy, and set up the trust under which they held

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

them as required by the laws of Massachusetts or Connecticut for the security of American policyholders and
creditors, with reasons for their right to retain the funds
alleged in detail. The libellant moved for decrees for
possession upon the pleadings which were granted by the
District Court. The decrees were affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals, 265 Fed. Rep. 477; ibid., 481. As
the decision of the latter Court is not made final by the
statute the cases have been brought on writ of error to
this Court.
As is obvious from the statement of the pleadings the
libels are brought upon the theory that these are purely
possessory actions and that for the purposes of immediate
possession the determination of the Enemy Property Custodian is conclusive, whether right or wrong. The claimants on the other hand set up substantive rights and seek
to have j', decided in these suits whether the funds are
enemy property in fact and whether they have not the
right to detain them. Strictly possessory actions still
survive in the laws of some States and have been upheld,
leaving the party claiming title to a subsequent suit.
Grant Tiinber & ManufacturingCo. v. Gray, 236 U. S. 133.
There can be no doubt that Congress has power to provide for an immediate seizure in war times of property
supposed to belong to the enemy, as it could provide for
an attachment or distraint, if adequate provision is made
for a return in case of mistake. As it can authorize a
seizure in pais it can authorize one through the help of a
Court. The only questions are whether it has done so
as supposed by the libellant and if so whether the conditions imposed by the act have been performed.
If the Custodian was entitled to demand the delivery
of the property in question it does not seem to need argument to show that the demand could be enforced by the
District Courts under § 17 of the act, giving to those Courts
jurisdiction to make all such orders and decrees as 'may

CENTRAL TRUST CO. v. GARVAN.
554.

Opinion of the Court.

be necessary and proper to enforce the provisions of the
act. The first question then is whether the Custodian
had the right to make the demand. By § 5 the President
may exercise any power or authority conferred by the act
through such officers as he may direct. It is admitted
that he has exercised the powers material to these cases
through the Enemy Property Cilstodian and by the Act of
November 4, 1918, c. 201, 40 Stat. 1020, theCustodian is
given the right to seize. By § 7 (c), as originally enacted,
"If the President shall so require, any money or other property owing or belonging to or held for, by, on account of, or
on behalf of, or for the benefit of an enemy or ally of an
enemy not holding a license granted by the President hereunder)which the President after investigation shall determine is so owing or so belongs or is so held, shall be conveyed, transferred, assigned, delivered, or paid over to the
alien property custodian." We are to take it therefore that
the President has "so required," and that a case is made
out under § 17 unless we are to consider the defences interposed.
If we look no further than § 7 (c), it is plain that obedience to the statute requires an immediate transfer in any
case within its terms without awaiting a resort to the Courts.
The occasion of the duty is a demand after a determination by the President and it is hard to give much meaning
to the words "which the President after investigation shall
determine is so . . . held" unless the determination
and demand call the duty into being. The condition "after
investigation" additionally points to the intent to make
his act decisive upon the point, as it is in other cases mentioned in § 7 (a). But it is said that the subject of the section is enemy property only and therefore that the determination cannot be final in its effect. Day v. Micou, 18
Wall. 156. And it is true that it is not final against the
claimant's rights. Upon surrender the claimant may at
once file a claim under § 9, if he satisfies the representa-

OCTOBER TERM, 1920..
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. B.

tive of. the President may obtain a return, and, if he does
not obtain it in sixty days after Ming his application, or
forthwith if he has given the required notice but filed no
application to the President, may bring a suit to establish
his rights in the District Court, in which case the property
is to be retained by the Custodian until final decree. These
provisions explain the initial words of § 7 (c) as saving the
ultimate rights of the claimant while the determination of
the President still may be given eff6ct to carry out an
immediate seizure for the security of the Government until the final decision upon the right. The reservation implies that mistakes may be made and assumes that the
transfer-will take place whether right or wrong.
The argument on the original words of the act in view
of the manifest purpose seems to us to be strong, but it
appears to us to be much strengthened by the amendments
of later date. By the Act of November 4, 1918, c. 201, 40
Stat. 1020, § 7 (c) was amended among other things by adding after the requirements of transfer "or the same may be
seized by the Alien Property Custodian; and all property
thus acquired shall be held, administered and disposed of
as elsewhere provided in this Act." This shows clearly
enough the peremptory character of this first step. It cannot be supposed that a resort to the Courts is to be less
immediately effective than a taking with the strong hand.
Clinkenbeardv. United States, 21 Wall. 65, has no application. That was debt on a bond for a tax and turned on the
right of the Government to the tax, not on possession. Bya later paragraph "the sole relief and remedy of any person having any claim to any . . . property" transferred
to the Custodian "or required so to be, or seiied by him
shall be that provided by the terms of this Act." The natural interpretation of this clause is that it refers to the
remedies expressly provided, in this case by §9; that property required to be transferred and property seized stand
on the same footing, not that the resort by the Custodian

CENTRAL TRUST CO. v. GARVAN.
5M"

Opinion of the Court.

to the Courts instead of to force opens to the person who
has declined to obey the order of the statute or who has
prevented a seizure a right by implication to delay what
the statute evidently means to accomplish at once.
To the conclusion that we reach it is objected that the
Custodian gets a good deal more than.bare possessionthat the property is to be conveyed to him, and that by
the Act of March 28, 1918, c. 28, 40 Stat. 459, 460, enlarging § 12, the Custodian "shall be vested with all of the
powers of a common-law trustee in respect of all property,
other than money, which has been or shall be, or which
has been or shall be required to be, conveyed," &c., to him,
and is given the power to sell and manage the same as
though he were absolute owner. All this may be conceded
if no claim is filed. But this act did not repeal § 9, which
is amended by the later Acts of July 11, 1919, c. 6, 41 Stat.
35, and of June 5, 1920, c. 241, 41 Stat,. 977, and as we
"have said, provides for immediate claim and suit and requires the property in cases of suit to be retained in the
custody of the Alien Property Custodian or in the Treasury
of the United-States to abide the result. The present proceeding gives nothing but the preliminary custody. such as
would have been gained by seizure. It attaches the property to make sure that it is forthcoming if finally condemned and does no more.
Decree affiined.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE took no part in the consideration
or decision of these cases.

