OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

BERLIN MILLS COMPANY v. PROCTER
& GAMBLE COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 93.

Argued November 15, 1920.-Decided December 6, 1920.

Patent No. 1,135,351, issued April 13, 1915, to Procter & Gamble
Company, as assignee of John . Burchenal, is void for lack of invention as to claims 1 and 2, claiming, respectively, a homogeneous
lard-like food product consisting of incompletely hydrogenized
vegetable oil, and a like product consisting of incompletely hydrogenized cottonseed oil. Pp. 161, 164.
The process of changing vegetable oil into a homogeneous, semisolid, edible substance, by acting upon it with hydrogen in the
presence of nickel, was known and open to general use, and its
application to the manufacture of the food products here in question
was such a step as would occur to persons skilled in the art, without
the exercise of invention. P. 165.
256 Fed. Rep. 23, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Marcus B. May and Mr. Charles E. Hughes, with
whom Mr. John C. Pennie and Mr. Melville Church were

on the briefs, for petitioner.
Mr. Livingston Gifford, with whom Mr. Alfred M. Allen

was on the briefs, for respondent.,
Mr. Charles E. Hughes and Mr. Royall Victor, by leave
of court, filed a brief as amici curice.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
This suit was brought by the Procter & Gamble Company against the Berlin Mills Company for the infringe-

BERLIN MILLS CO. v. PROCTER & GAMBLE CO.
156.

157

Opinion of the Court.

ment of the patent of John J. Burchenal for a food product,
issued on April 13, 1915, Number 1,135,351, to the-Procter & Gamble Company, assignee. The District Court
held the patent void for lack of invention, and also that
the claims in suit were not infringed. The Circuit Court
of Appeals, one judge dissenting, held the patent valid
and infringed. 256 Fed. Rep. 23.
The patent in controversy relates to a lard-like food
product consisting of a vegetable oil partially hydrogenized to a homogeneous whitish, yellowish product. The
record discloses that the making of lard substitutes has
been accomplished by mixing melted fat with vegetable
oils.

These oils contain glycerides-olein, linolin and stearin.
The hydrogenation, or hardening process, has the effect to
increase the proportion of the solid glycerides of high
saturation. Stearin is called a saturated glyceride for the
reason "that there are present in the molecule as many
hydrogen atoms as possibly can be joined to the carbon
atoms." Linolin and olein are called unsaturated glycerides and can be converted by the addition of hydrogen
into hardened glycerides.
The patentee in the specifications of his paterLt states
the object of his alleged invention, and what he intended to
accomplish, as follows:
"The special object of the invention is to provide a new
food product for a shortening in cooking, in w'aich the
liability to become rancid is minimized, and in which the
components of such vegetable oils which are inf(:rior and
detrimental to use as such a food product have been to a
large extent converted into a higher and more wholesome
form. All such vegetable oils contain glycerids of unsaturated fatty acids, and among these, notable quantities
of fatty glycerids of lower saturation than olein. It is the
presence of these glycerids of lower saturation that seriously affects the rancidity of the material. Oxidation is

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

largely the cause of rancidity, which oxidation weakens
the fat at the point of absorption at the double bonds, and
these glycerids of lesser saturation readily absorb- oxygen
from the air at ordinary temperatures, while the more
highly saturated glycerids, as olein, only absorb oxygen at
elevated temperatures. It is evident, therefore, that oils
or fats containing notable quantities of glycerids of linolic
acid, or of lesser saturation, are distinctly inferior as an
edible product to those containing a minimum of these
glycerids with a larger per cent. of olein. On the other
hand, while it is important to get rid of the readily oxidizable glycerids of lower saturation, it is also important not
to supply too large a per cent. of fully saturated glycerids.
. . . Oil, liquid at the ordinary temperatures, does not
make the best shortening, because the oil remains liquid,
keeping the food in a soggy condition, and the oil will even
settle to the under part of the cooked product and soil the
cloth, paper, or whatever it may come in contact with.
Moreover, fats of a melting point above the temperature
of the human body, 980 F., are not so digestible as fats
which are liquid at this point, or which have a melting
point below 98' F. It is, therefore, my object in the preparation of my new lard-like composition and food-product, and in preparing same from cottonseed oil, to change
the chemical composition of the oil to obtain a product
with a high percentage of olein, a low percentage of linolin
and the lesser-saturated fats, and with only sufficient
stearin to make the product congeal at ordinary temperatures.
"In manufacturing this product, cottonseed or other
vegetable oil is caused to chemically absorb a limited
amount of hydrogen by reacting on the oil with hydrogen
in the presence of a catalytic agent and at an elevated
temperature. The oil is preferably agitated in a closed
vessel in the presence of an atmosphere of compressed
hydrogen, a catalyser of finely-divided nickel carried by

BERLIN MILLS CO. v. PROCTER & GAMBLE CO.
156.

159

Opinion of the Court.

kieselguhr being maintained in suspension in the oil and
its temperature being raised to about 1550 C.
"According to the present invention, the amount of
hydrogen absorbed is carefully regulated and limited. In
practice, the operation is stopped when the oil has been
converted into a product which cools to a white or yellowish semi-solid more closely resembling lard than do the
commercial mixtures of cottonseed oil and animal oleostearin, while in many respects the product is superior
to the best leaf lard as a shortening. It is not so liable to
become rancid and the product can be heated to a considerably higher temperature than lard without smoking
or burning. The high temperature to which my product
can be raised without smoking or burning makes the
product ideal for frying, inasmuch as a crust forms almost
instantly on the food fried, which prevents any absorption
of the shortening. A lard-like product thus prepared from
cottonseed oil has a saponification value of about 195; and
an iodin value ranging from about 55 to about 80. The
product having an iodin value of 55 has a titer of about
420 and a melting-point of about 40* C.; that having an
iodin value of 80 has a titer of about 350 and a meltingpoint of about 330 C. While but partially hydrogenied,
containing from about 1.5% to 2.5% of additional hydrogen more than in the nonhydrogenized material, it shows
no free cottonseed oil when subjected to the Halphen test,
thereby differing from all commercial lard substitutes
containing this oil. It contains from twenty to twenty-five
per cent. of fully saturated glycerids, from five to ten per
cent. linolin and from sixty-five to seventy-five per cent.
olein, and an average of a number of samples gives twe;atythree per cent. of saturated fats, seven and five-tenths
per cent. linolin and sixty-nine and five-tenths per cent.
olein, while the cottonseed oil before treatment conta ned
seventeen per cent. saturated fats, thirty-seven per cent.
linolin and forty-six per cent. olein. It will thus be .een

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

that I have produced an ideal food product, which is high
in olein, low in linolin and lesser-saturated fats, and with
only enough stearin to make the product congeal at
ordinary temperatures.."
The patent has seven claims; two broad claims, which
are the ones here involved:
1. "A homogeneous lard-like food product consisting of
an incompletely hydrogenized vegetable oil."
2. "A homogeneous lard-like food product consisting of
incompletely hydrogenized cottonseed oil."
The five additional claims, more specific and limited,
are not involved in this suit. Two of the four judges who
considered this patent and the validity of the claims in
suit reached the conclusion that they were void for want of
invention; two judges of the Circuit Court 'of Appeals
held the patent valid, and infringed.
In deciding between these conflicting views we must
consider the genesis of the alleged invention, and what was
theretofore known and disclosed in the art. Burchenal,
the patentee, was not a chemist, and was the General
Manager of the Procter & Gamble Company, whose
principal.business had been the manufacture of soap. One
Edwin C. Kayser, who had been in the employ of Crossfield & Son, an English firm, and familiar with the Normann process, to be hereinafter considered, came to this
country in 1907, and saw Mr. Burchenal at the Procter &
Gamble factory. A contract was made with Kayser, and
an experimental plant was erected at the Procter & Gamble works for hydrogenating oil.
It is the contention of the respondent that the merit of
Burchenal's alleged invention arises from the fact that he
was the first to originate and develop the process involved
so as to make a food product of the character described.
The District Court found that Burchenal in fact invented nothing, and that all that was real invention, as
establislked by the testimony, came from Kayser. But

BERLIN MILLS CO. v. PROCTER & GAMBLE CO.- 161
156.

Opinion of the Court.

considering, for the purposes of this discussion, that the
thought occurred to Burchenal, which he developed in the

production of a food product, the subject-matter of this
patent, the primary question is presented whether what
Burchenal accomplished amounted to invention within
the meaning and protection of the patent law.
In considering the patentability of this alleged invention, it is to be remembered that this is not claimed to be
a process patent. While the process is described in the
specifications, Burchenal makes no claim that it is his
invention, indeed; he concedes in the testimony that the
process is Rot his, and counsel frankly say that the patent
must stand or fall upon its validity as a product patent of
a new and useful thing within the meaning of the patent
law. If this product was the result of mechanical improvement only, when viewed in the light of that which
was previously disclosed and open to public use, the step
in advance being only that which one skilled in the art
might well make, without the exercise of the originating or
inventing faculty, then the achievement is not within the
protection of the patent law.
The English patent to Normann of October, 1903,
disclosed to the world the process of converting unsaturated fatty acids, or their glycerides, into saturated compounds. After referring to other discoveries he says:
"By causing acetylene, ethylene, or benzene vapour in
mixture with hydrogen gas to pass over one of the said
metals, the said investigators obtained from the unsaturated hydrocarbons saturated hydrocarbons, partly
with simultaneous condensation.
;,."I have found, that it is easy to convert by this catalytic method unsaturated fatty acids into saturated acids.
This may be effected by causing vapours of fatty acid
together with hydrogen to pass over the catalytic metal,
which is preferably distributed over a suitable support,
such as pumice stone. It is sufficient, however, to expose

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

the fat or the fatty acid in a liquid condition to the action
of hydrogen and the catalytic substance.
"For instance, if fine nickel powder obtained by reduction in a current of hydrogen, is added to chemically pure
oleic acid, then the latter heated over an oil bath, and a
strong current of hydrogen is caused to pass through it for
a sufficient length of time, the oleic acid may be completely
converted into stearic acid.
"The quantity of the nickel thus added and the temperature are immaterial and will only affect the duration
of the process. Apart from the formation of small quantities of nickel soap, which may be easily decomposed by
dilute mineral acids, the reaction passes off without any
secondary reaction taking place. The same nickel may be
used repeatedly. Instead of pure oleic acid, commercial
fatty acids may be treated in the same manner. The
yellowish fatty acids of tallow, which melt between 44 and
48' C. and whose iodine number is 35.1, will, after hydrogenstion, melt between 56.5 and 590 C., while their iodine
number will be 9.8 and their colour slightly lighter than
before, and they will be very hard.
"The same method is applicable not only to free fatty
acids, but also to their glycerides occurring in nature, that
is to say, to fats and oils. Olive oil will yield a hard
tallow-like mass; linseed oil and fish oil will give similar
results.
"By the new method, all kinds of unsaturated fatty
acids and their glycerides may be easily hydrogenized."
An expert witness, called by petitioner, gives in his
testimony certain views of this process which commend
themselves to our judgment as entirely reasonable and
accurate, and so well stated that we quote them in part:
"Dr. Normann discovered, and sets forth in the patent,
that unsaturated acids or unsaturated oils by the action of
hydrogen in the presence of finely divided nickel may be
converted into corresponding saturated compounds. He

BERLIN MILLS CO. v. PROCTER & GAMBLE CO.
156.:

163

Opinion of the Court.

defines the reaction rather carefully in some regards. He
says, for instance, if fine nickel powder obtained by reduction in a current of hydrogen is added to chemically
pure oleic acid, then the latter heated over an oil bath and
a strong current of hydrogen is caused to pass through it
for a sufficient length of time, the oleic acid may be completely converted into stearic acid.
"Further on he says: 'Apart from the formation of
small quantities of nickel soap, which may be easily
decomposed by dilute mineral acids, the reaction passes
off without any secondary reaction taking place.'
"I think that those two sentences which I have read
very well define the product which is obtained by such
reduction especially the second sentence, where he says
that the reaction goes on in a quantitative way, we will
say; that is he says that there is no side reaction takes
place. A chemist would know from this first paragraph
where he says that oleic acid goes to stearic acid, and from
the second one where he says that no side reaction takes
place, the chemist would know exactly what the product is
which is formed by this reaction. .
"I would call attention particularly to the fact that he
hardened olive oil to a hard, tallow-like mass. Tallow is a
substance that is obtained from the fat of either cattle or
of sheep and is a substance of somewhat semi-solid character; that is, its lower limit of melting point is within a
lard range and its upper limit is just slightly beyond the
lard range so that if Normann hardened olive oil to a
tallow-like mass that means that he hardened it to a
product of a semi-solid character. . .
" Q. 63. Does Normann specify anywhere in his patent
any of the purposes for which his patents are intended?
"A. He does not. He says nothing in the patent as to
what these products should be used for. The presumption
is that they might be used for any purpose for which fats
of that general character could be utilized. They might be

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

used for making candles; they might be used for soaps;
they might be used for edible purposes.
"By the passages I have read he has very carefully
specified what the product is so that any chemist would
know for what particular purposes it might be useful.
"Q. 64. In the process of hydrogenation as described in
the Normann patent from which you made citations; that
is, the British patent No. 1515 of 1903, what would your
conclusion be as to the edibility of the resultant product
when the material hydrogenated was among those suggested by him, olive oil?
"A. If an edible olive oil was started with one would
certainly obtain an edible hydrogenated product."
It is in evidence that this method, shown by Normann,
is a practicable one, and may be used for the making of
edible food products of the kind here involved.
With the knowledge disclosed in the Normann patent
conclusively presumed to be known by the patentee, was
it invention to apply the known process to vegetable oils?
In this connection the history of the application for the
patent in suit in the Patent Office is interesting and
instructive. It is true that claims one and two were
finally allowed, and the patentee is entitled to the presumption which arises from the granting of them. But it
appears in the history of the application for the Burchenal
patent, found in the record, that as originally presented
it contained two claims not so broad as the ones now in
suit, and a third claim for "A 'semi-solid hydrogenized
oil," was added by amendment. All of the claims were
rejected, the examiner saying:
"The composition of lard and of cottonseed oil as to the
glycerides olein and stearin that they contain is well
known. To make a product from cottonseed oil that shall
simulate lard the content of stearin should be increased.
[Referring to patents.] It is thought therefore that if the
problem of simulating lard from cottonseed oil were

BERLIN MILLS CO. v. PROCTER & GAMBLE CO.
156.

165

Opinion of the Court.

presented to an oil chemist, an incomplete hydrogenization of the cottonseed oil would at once suggest itself to
him as a solution of the problem. All the claims are
accordingly rejected on the above ground of lack of invention. Claim 3 is further rejected on the product
formed by the above cited patents."
Replying to the communication of the examiner amendment was made canceling claim 3. Further consideration
was requested on claims 1 and 2, upon arguments which
were presented. The claims were afterwards rejected upon
reference to patents to Kayser of September 26, 1911, and
November 14, 1911, the examiner stating that these
patents were adapted to hydrogenize glycerides, the latter
one specifically mentioning its adaptability for cottonseed
oil, and that the process could be arrested at any time
during its progress and thus an incompletely hydrogenized
article be produced.
Subsequently the specifications were amended, giving
more definitely the percentages of olein, linolin and stearin.
The patentee concludes the amended specifications, stating "It will thus be seen that we have produced an ideal
food product, which is high in olein, low in linolin and
lesser-saturated fats, and with only enough stearin to
make the product congeal at ordinary temperatures;"
additional and more limited claims were added, but
ultimately the patent, containing the broad claims here
involved, was granted.
It is true, as the Circuit Court of Appeals states in its
opinion, that the applicant never did acquiesce in the
examiner's action rejecting his claims, and finally obtained
what he had in the first place asked for.
This record establishes that it was known before Burchenal took up the subject that a vegetable oil could be
changed into a semi-solid, homogeneous, substance by a
process of hydrogenation arrested before completion and
that it might be edible. This much of the art was public

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Syllabus.

254 U. S.

property and open to general use. The product of this
process was known and open to public use. To supply
such products as the patentee has described in the broad
claims in suit may have been new and useful, but does not
in our opinion arise to the dignity of invention, and is an
advance step which would occur to one skilled in the art
.when investigating and considering the subject. It follows that the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals must
be reversed and the cause remanded to the District Court
with directions to dismiss the bill on the ground that
claims 1 and 2 are void for the reasons stated in thii
opinion.
Reversed.

DE REES v. COSTAGUTA ET AL., INDIVIDUALLY
AND AS CO-PARTNERS COMPOSING THE COPARTNERSHIP OF DAVID COSTAGUTA AND
COMPANY, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 341. Submitted October 11, 1920.-Decided December 6, 1920.
A jurisdictional appeal, directly to this court from the District Court
under ยง 238 of the Judicial Code, will not lie where the question of
jurisdiction presented and decided involved only principles common
to courts in general and not the jurisdiction of the District Court as
a federal court. P. 173.
Whether the allegations of a bill are adequate to justify the relief
sought, is not a question of jurisdiction. Id.
Where the jurisdiction of the District Court is invoked against nonresident defendants under Jud. Code, ยง 57, to enforce a lien on property Within the district claimed to result from a contract between
them and the plaintiff, a decision quashing service by publication,
followed by a judgment dismissing the bill, upon the ground that

