ARNDSTEIN v. McCARTHY.
Opinion of the Court.

ARNDSTEIN v. McCARTHY, UNITED STATES
MARSHAL FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT
OF NEW YORK.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 575.

Argued October 21, 22, 1920.-Decided November 8, 1920.

Under direction of the bankruptcy court, but without objection, an
involuntary bankrupt filed schedules of assets and liabilities, which,
standing alone, did not amount to an admission of guilt or furnish
clear proof of crime; and, later in the proceeding, he declined to
answer certain questions concerning them on the ground that to do
so might incriminate him. Held, that by filing the schedules he
did not waive his privilege under the Fifth Amendment. P. 72.
The privilege of the Amendment applies if it cannot be said that the
questions propounded, considered in the light of the circumstances
disclosed, may be answered with entire impunity. Id.
The provision of § 7 of the Bankruptcy Act that no testimony given by
a bankrupt shall be offered in evidence against him in any criminal
proceeding, is not a substitute for the protection of the Fifth Amendment, since it does not prevent the use of his testimony to search
out other evidence to be used in evidence against him or his property. P. 73.
Reversed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

See also, post, 379.

Mr. Rufus S. Day and Mr. William J. Fallon, with
whom Mr. George L. Boyle was on the brief, for appellant.
The Solicitor General for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of

the court.
Holding that the petition failed to disclose adequate
grounds therefor, the court below denied appellant's

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

application for a writ of habeas corpus, through which he
sought release from confinement for contempt. The cause
is here by.reason of the constitutional question involved.
The petition alleges:
That having been adjudged an involuntary bankrupt,
Arndstein was called before Special Commissioners for
examination under § 21-a, Bankruptcy Act. He refused
to answer a long jist of questions, claiming that to do so
might tend to degrade and incriminate him. The District
Judge upheld this contention and denied a motion to
punish for contempt.
That subsequent to such examination and under the
direction of the court the bankrupt filed schedules under
oath which purported to show his assets and liabilities:
When interrogated concerning these he set up his constitutional privilege and refused to answer many questions
which are set out. Thereupon he was committed to jail.
The writ was refused upon the theory that by filing
schedules without objection the bankrupt waived his
constitutional privilege and could not thereafter refuse to
reply when questioned in respect of them. This view of
the law we think is erroneous. The schedules standing
alone did not amount to an admission of guilt or furnish
clear proof, of crime and the mere filing of them did not
constitute a waiver of the right to stop short whenever the
bankrupt could fairly claim that to answer might tend to
incriminate him. See Brown v. Walker, "161 U. S. 591, 597;"
Foster v. People, 18 Michigan, 266, 274;, People v. Forbes,
143 N. 'Y. 219, 230 Regina v. Garbett,'2 C. & K. 474, 495.
It is impossible to say from mere consideration of the
questions propounded, in the light of the circumstances
disclosed, that they could have been answered with
entire impunity. The writ should have issued.
"No person . . . shall be compelled in any criminal case to be a witness against himself, "-Fifth Amendment. "This provision must have a broad construction

UNITED STATES v. NATIONAL SURETY CO.
71.

73

Syllabus.

in favor of the right which it was intended to secure."
"The object was to insure that a. person should not be
compelled, when acting as a witness in any investigation,
to give testimony which right tend to show that he
himself had committed a crime." Counselman v. Hitchcock, 142 U. S. 547, 562.
The protection of the Constitution was not removed, by
the provision in § 7 of the Bankruptcy Act,-"No testimony given by him shall be offered in evidence against him
in any criminal proceeding." "It could not and would not
prevent the use of his testimony to search out other testimony to be used in evidence against him or his property."
TCounselman v. Hitchcock, p. 564.
The judgment below must be reversed, and the cause
remanded for further proceedings in conformity with
this opinion.
MR. JusTICE DAY took no part in the, consideration or
decision of this cause.

UNITED STATES v. NATIONAL SURETY
COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
Nos. 271, 272.

Submitted October 13, 1920.-Decided November 8, 1920.

Revised Statutes, § 3468, which gives a surety, who pays to the United
States the amount due on a bond of an insolvent debtor, the priority
enjoyed by the United States over other creditors under Rev. Stats.,
§ 3466, does not entitle the surety to share equally with the United
States when the estate is insufficient to satisfy the claim of the

