HORNING v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Counsel for Parties.

HORNING v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA.

No. 77.

Argued November 8, 9, 1920.-Decided November 22, 1920.

One whose intentional conduct violates the prohibitions of a penal
statute is not excused by his purpose to keep within the law and his
belief that he did so. P. 137.
The offense of engaging without license in the business of lending
money on security at more than 6 per cent. interest, in the District
of Columbia (Act of February 4, 1913, c. 26, 37 Stat. 657), is committed by a pawnbroker who receives applications, examines pledges
and decides upon loans only at a place just beyond the District line,
but who maintains an establishment in the District where the
pledges are kept and returned, and where intending borrowers may
find a free automobile service to take them to him in person, or a
paid messenger service, not belonging to the pawnbroker, by which
their applications and pledges may be taken to him and the money
and pawn tickets brought back and delivered to them. Id.
In a criminal case, when undisputed facts, including the testimony of
the defendant, clearly establish the offense charged, the judge may
say so to the jury, tell them that there is no issue of fact for their
determination and instruct them that, while they cannot be constrained to return a verdict of guilty, it is their duty to do so under
their obligation as jurors. Id.
Held, that if the defendant suffered any wrong from the manner in
which such instructions were given in the present case, it was purely
formal, since there could be no doubt of his guilt on the facts admitted; and the error, if any, was cured by ยง 269, Jud. Code, as
amended February 26, 1919. P. 138.
48 App. D. C. 380, affirmed.
THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Henry E. Davis for petitioner.
Mr. Robert L. Williams, with whom Mr. F. H. Stephens
and Mr. P. H. Marshall were on the brief, for respondent.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

MR. JuSTIcE HoLMEs delivered the opinion of the

court.
This case comes here upon a writ of certiorari granted
to review a judgment of the Court of Appeals that affirmed
a conviction of the-petitioner of doing business as a
pawnbroker and charging more than six per cent. interest,
without a license, which is forbidden by the Act of Congress of February 4, 1913, c. 26, 37 Stat. 657. 48 App. D.
C. 380.
The external facts are not disputed. The defendant
had been in business as a pawnbroker in Washington but
anticipating the enactment of the present law removed
his headquarters to a place in Virginia at the other end
of a bridge leading from the city.. He continued to use his
former building as a storehouse for his pledges but posted
notices on his office there that no applications for loans
would be received or examination of pledges made there.
He did, however, maintain a free automobile service from
there to Virginia and offered to intending borrowers the
choice of calling upon him in person or sending their
application and security by a dime messenger service not
belonging to him but established in his Washington
building. If the loan was made, in the latter case the
money and pawn ticket were brought back and handed
to the borrower in Washington. When a loan was paid
off the borrower received a redemption certificate, presented it in Washington and got back his pledge. The
defendant estimated the number of persons applying
to the Washington office for loans or redemption at fifty
to seventy-five a day. His Washington clerk, a witness
in his behalf, put it at from seventy-five to one hundred.
We may take it that there was a fairly steady stream of
callers, as is implied by the automobile service being
maintained. It is said with reference to the charge of the
judge to which we shall advert that there was a quest-oiV

HORNING v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
135.

137 "

Opinion of the Court.

for the jury as to the defendant's intent. But we perceive
none. There is no question that the defendant intentionally maintained his storehouse and managed his
business in the way described. 'Itmay be assumed that
he intended not to break the law but only to get as near
to the line as he could, which he had a right to do, but if
the conduct described crossed the line, the fact that he
desired to keep within it will not help him. It means only
that he misconceived the law.
As to whether the conduct described did contravene
the law, it is urged that a pledgee has a right to keep the
pledged property where he likes and as he likes provided
he returns it in proper condition when redeemed., But
that hardly helps the defendant. To keep for riturn,
whatever latitude there may be as to place and mode, is
part of the duty of a pledgee, and in the case of one who
makes a business of lending on pledges is as much a part
of his business -as making the loan. As we read the
statute its prohibition is not confined to cases vhere the
whole business is done in Washington. If an essentialpart of it is done there and a Washington office is used as
a collecting centre, it does not matter that care is taken
to complete every legal transaction on the other side of the
Potomac. We cannot suppose that it was intended to
allow benefits so similar to those coming from business
done wholly in the city to be derived from acts done there
and yet go free. We are of opinion that upon the undisputed evidence the defendant was guilty of a breach
of the law and turn at once to the question which seemed
to warrant allowing the case to be brought to this Court.
The question relates to the charge of the judge. The
judge said to the jury that the only question for them to
determine was whether they believed the concurrent
testimony of the witnesses for the Government and the
defendant describing the course of business that we have.
stated and as to which: there was no dispute. Those facts,

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

he correctly instructed them, constituted an engaging
in business in the District of Columbia. This was excepted to and the jury retired. The next day they were
recalled to Court and were told that there really was no
issue of fact for them to decide; that they were not
warranted in capriciously saying that the witnesses for the
Government and the defendant were not telling the
truth; that the course of dealing constituted a breach of
the law; that it was their duty to accept this exposition
of the law; that in a criminal case the Court could not
peremptorily instruct them to find the defendant guilty
but that if the law permitted he would. The Court added
that a failure to bring in a verdict could only arise from
a flagrant disregard of the evidence, the law, and their
obligation as jurors. On an exception being taken the
judge repeated that he could not tell them in so many
words to find the defendant guilty but that what he said
amounted to that; that the facts proved were in accord
with the information and that the Court of Appeals had
said that that showed a violation of law.
This was not a case of the judge's expressing an opinion
upon the evidence, as he would have had a right to do.
Graham v. United States, 231 U. S. 474, 480. The facts
were not in dispute, and what he did was to say so and to
lay down the law applicable to them. In such a case
obviously the function of the jury if they do their duty
is little more than formal. The judge cannot direct a
verdict it is true, and the jury has the power to bring
in a verdict in the teeth of both law and facts. But the
judge always has the right and duty to tell them what
the law is upon this or that state of facts that may be
found, and he can do the same none the less when the
facts are agreed. If the facts are agreed the judge may
state that fact also, and when there is no dispute he may
.say so although there has been no formal agreement.
Perhaps there was a regrettable peremptoriness of tone-

HORNING v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
135.

Buas,

J., WHITE, Ch. J., and D.Y, J., dissenting.

but the jury were allowed the technical right, if it can
be called so, to decide against the law and the facts--and
that is all there was left for them after the ' defendant
and his witnesses took the stand. If the defendant
suffered any wrong it was purely formal since, as we have
said, on the facts admitted there was no doubt of his'
guilt. Act of February 26, 1919, c. 48, 40 Stat. 1181,
amending ยง 269 of the Judicial Code; Act of March 3,
1911, c. 231, 36 Stat. 1087.
Judgnent affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE McRyNOLDS dissents.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS, dissenting.

It has long been the established practice of the federal
courts that, even in criminal cases, the presiding judge
may comment freely on the evidence and express his
opinion whether facts alleged have been proved. Since
Sparf v. United States, 156 U. S. 51, it is settled that, even
in criminal cases, it is the duty of the jury to apply the
law given them by the presiding judge to the facts which
they find. But it is still the rule of the federal courts that
the jury in criminal cases renders a general verdict on the
law and the facts; and that the judge is without power
to direct a verdict of guilty although no fact is in dispute.
United States v. Taylor, 11 Fed. Rep. 470; Atchison,
Topeka & Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. United States, 172 Fed. Rep.
194. What the judge is forbidden to do directly, he may
not do by indirection, Peterson v. United States, 213
Fed. Rep. 920. The judge may enlighten the understanding of the jury and thereby influence their judgment; but
he may not use undue influence. He may advise; he
may persuade; but he may not command or coerce. He
does coerce when without convincing the judgment he
overcomes the will by the weight of his aiuthority. Compare Hall v. Hall, L. R. 1, P. & D. 481, 482.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
BRANDEs J., WHITE,Ch. J., and DAY, J., dissenting.

254 U. S.

The character of the charge in this case is illustrated by
the following paragraph:
"In conclusion, I will say to you that a failure by you
to bring in a verdict in this case can arise only from a
wilful and flagrant disregard of the evidence and the law
as I have given it to you, and a violation of your obligation as jurors.
.
Of course, gentlemen of the jury,
I cannot tell you, in so many words, to find deferidant
guilty, but what I say amounts to that."
In my opinion, such a charge is a moral command, and
being yielded to, substitutes the will of the judge for the
conviction of the jury. The law which in a criminal case
forbids a verdict directed "in so many words," forbids
such a statement as the above.1
It is said that if the defendant suffered any wrong it was
purely formal; and that the error is of such a character as
not to afford, since the Act of February 26, 1919, c. 48,
40 Stat. 1181, a basis for reversing the judgment of the
lower court. Whether a defendant is found guilty by a
jury or is declared to be so by a judge is not, under the
Federal Constitution, 'a mere formality. Blair v. United
States, 241 Fed. Rep. 217, 230. The offence here in question is punishable by imprisonment. Congress would have
been powerless to provide for imposing the punishment
except upon the verdict of the jury. Callan v. Wilson,
127 U. S. 540; Thompson v. Utah, 170 U. S. 343. I find
nothing in the act to indicate that it sought to do so.
Because the presiding judge usurped the province of the
jury, I am unable to concur in the judgment of the court.

Tm CHIEF JUSTICE and MR. JuSTIcE DAY concur in
this dissent.
Compare People v. Sheldon, 156 N. Y. 268; State v. Bybee, 17 Kan.
462; Meadows v. State, 182 Ala. 51; Randolph v. Lam pkin, 90 Ky. 551;
McPeak v. Missouri Pacific Ry. Co., 128 Mo. 617; State v. Tulip, 9
Kan. App. 454; Lively v. Sexton, 35 Il. App. 417....See Starr v. United
States, 153 U. S. 614, 626.
I

