ATWATER v. GUERNSEY.
Opinion of the Court.

ATWATER v. GUERNSEY ET AL., TRUSTEES IN
BANKRUPTCY OF ATWATER, ET AL.
SCERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 511.

Submitted December 14, 1920.-Deciddd January 3, 1921.

Petitioner advanced his son the money to buy a seat in the New

York Stock Exchange and to 'pay the initiation fee, executing releases to the son which were filed with the Exchange in compliance
with its rules, and'the son paid interest on the amount advanced.
The evidence showed that the advance was intended as a gift and

that the interest was paid as ,a moral obligation merely.. Held,
irrespective of the technical operation of the releases, that the petitioner had no valid claim to reimbursement against the trustee

of the son's firm in bankruptcy.
266 Fed. Rep. 278, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Abram J. Rose for petitioner.
was also on the brief.

Mr. Frank B. Lown

Mr. R. D. Whiting for respondents.
Arnold was also on the brief.

Mr. C. W. H.

MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from an order expunging a claim of
the 'etitioner, Edward S. Atwater, against his son, Eliot
Atwater, a member of the firm ,of Atwater, Foote and
Sheril, adjudicated bankrupts. The claim is for $75,000
father to the son, to enable him to buy
furnished bthe
a seat inthe New York Stock Exchange and to pay. his
initiatioL fee. The seat was bought and the use of it was

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

contributed to the firm by Eliot Atwater, the seat remaining his individual property, as the Master and both
Courts have found, and as we see no reason to doubt.
In connection with the purchase, as required by the rules
of the Stock Exchange, Edward S. Atwater executed a
release of all claims against Eliot Atwater, "and more
particularly by reason of an advance of the sum of ($73,000) Seventy-Three Thousand Dollars, made to said Eliot
Atwater, to enable him, the said Eliot Atwater, to purchase a membership in the New York Stock Exchange."
There was a second release with a similar special clause
covering $2,010, to enable the son "to pay his initiation fee
to the New York Stock Exchange." The Master and both
Courts
considered the release a bar to the appellant's claim.
. It hardly
was necessary to reach that point, as it seems
to us obvious that whatever moral obligation was considered to remain, both father and son understood at the
time of the transaction that no legal obligation arose
from the advance, and the release expressed the fact.
There is no doubt that -he release was intended to be an
operative instrument, at least so far as creditors who were
members of the Stock Exchange were concerned. That
being so it would be going very far to allow a coternporaneous parol understanding to be shown that it should
not do the very thing that on its face it specifically purported to effect. But we find no such understanding.
It is admitted that no document ever was given to show
it. The father testified that his son never agreed to repay
the money and that nothing was said about repayment;
the son test led that he understood that there was no
claim against himself legally. It is true, no doubt, and
natural that he should have considered that there was a
moral obligation, and in pursuance of it interest was paid
to the father ufntil the bankruptcy. It is true, also, that
father and son in their testimony use some phrases that
favored the present claim. But we are satisfied that,

NATIONAL BRAKE CO. v. CHRISTENSEN.
423.

425

Syllabus.

at the time, the release was given in good faith, and meant
what it said without equivocation or reserves. It is unnecessary to consider whether the Circuit Court of Appeals were successful in distinguishing Sterling v. Chapin,
185 N. Y. 395, from the present case, on the assumption
that the parties attempted to qualify the release. More
need not be said to show that the decree should be affirmed.
Decree affirmed.

NATIONAL BRAKE & ELECTRIC COMPANY v.
CHRISTENSEN ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 111. Argued December 10, 1920.-='Decided January 3, 1921.
1. When a patent for an invention has been sustained by the Circuit
Court of Appeils and the case has been remanded to the District
Court for an accounting, a party claiming that a subsequent decree
in another circuit should be given effect as res judicata against the
patent should apply by petition to the Circuit Court of Appeals for
leave to file a bill in the District Court in the nature of a bill of
review, setting up the new matter as a bar to further proceedings.
P. 429.
2. Such applications are addressed to the sound discretion of the
appellate tribunal, and should be decided upon consideration of
the materiality of the new matter and diligence inits presentation.
P. 430.
3. Leave to file such a bill of review may be granted after the judgment of the appellate tribunal and after the going down of its mandate at the close of the term at which judgment was rendered. P. 431.
4. Held, that an application made to the Circuit Court of Appeal3
in this case was an application of that character, and not an application to have the other decree pronounced res judicataby that court.
P. 432.
5. The decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals rejecting such an

