UNITED STATES v. NORTHERN PAC. RY. CO.
245.

251

Syllabus.

measure of damages were not assigned as error in the
Circuit Court of Appeals and so far as appears objection
to them was not otherwise called to its attention Under
Rule 11 of that court, 150 Fed. Rep. xxvii, errors not
assigned are to be disregarded, except that the court, in
its discretion, may notice a plain error not assigned. As
the above rulings of the Supreme Court on the measure
of damages were not assigned as errors in the Circuit
Court of Appeals and were not considered by it they cannot be insisted upon here as grounds Aor reversal. 1
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Afrmed.

UNITED STATES v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

EIGHTH CIRCUIT:
No. 88.

Argued November 11, 12, 1920.-Decided December 6, 1920.

The requirement of the Safety Appliance Acts that all trains used on
any railroad engaged in interstate commerce shall have a certain
per cent., of their cars equipped with power or train brakes under
control of the engineer, applies to "transfer trains" moving between
two yards of a railroad company, over a "transfer" track which
crosses atgrade streets and lines of independent railroad companies
where freight and passenger trains are run, and which also is used,

in part, by independent railroad companies for their freight trains.
P. 253.
A moving locomotive and cars attached are without the provision of
the act only when they are not a train; as where the locomotive is
Compare Davis v. Hines, 6 Oh. St. 473, 478; Litchtenstadt v. Rose,
98 Ill.
643; Taylor v. Pierce, 174 111.9,12; Vilsos v. Vance, 55 Ind. 584,
591.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

engaged in switching, classifying and assembling cars in a yard to
make up a train. P. 254.
It is not the duty of courts applying the act to weigh dangers incident
to particular railway operations. P. 255.
255 Fed. Rep. 655, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mrs. Annette Abbott Adams, Assistant Attorney General,
with whom The Solicitor General was on the brief, for the
United States.
Mr. D. F. Lyons, with whom Mr. Charles W. Bunn was'
on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the

court.
The Northern Pacific Railway Company owns and uses
in interstate commerce a terminal railroad along the waterfront of Duluth extending from Rice's Point to Furnace, a
distance of four miles. It was sued in the District Court
of the United States for the District of Minnesota for
violating the Safety Appliance Act 1 by operating over'
the whole of this road, in September, 1916, two transfer
trains, without complying with the requirement that 85
per cent. of the train brakes be coupled so as to be und(%7
engine control. One train consisted of a locomotive and
forty-eight cars, the other of a locomotive and forty cars.
The company contended that the provision of the Safety
Appliance Act did not control the operation because this
terminal road was not part of a main line; that neither
.passenger nor freight trains, through or local, moved on
it; that on it trains are not operated by time-tables, train
IAct of March 2, 1893, c. 196, ยง 1, 27 Stat. 53i, as amended by Act
of March 2, 1903, c. 976, ยง 2, 32 Stat. 943; and order of Interstate
Commerce Commission dated June 6, 1910.

UNITED STATES v. NORTHERN PAC. RY. CO. 253
251.

Opinion of the Court.

orders, or time-cards, nor is the use of the track controlled
by block signals; that on it no train has right of way over
another; but that there the single operating rule applies
which requires all trains to move at such speed that they
can be stopped at vision, and that trains are under the
yardmaster's orders. The company's contention was
sustained by the District-Court which directed a Verdict
for defendant; and the judgment entered thereon was
affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth
Circuit. 255 Fed. Rep. 655. The case comes here on writ
of certiorari. 249 U. S. 597.
These additional facts are material: The road for a
distance of a mile at the beginning and for less at the end
is single track. It crosses at grade two streets on one of
which run street cars. It crosses at grade, at five places
in all, lines of three independent railroad companies which
run freight trains to piers situated between Rice's Point
and Furnace. One of these companies also runs passenger
trains across defendant's tracks. In addition, two other
independent companies use, under the usual traffic-right
agreements, about a mile of this railroad as a part of their
freight lines to piers situated between Rice's Point and
Furnace. These four miles of railroad owned by the
Northern Pacific are not used by it for switching or assembling cars. The switching, assembling and classification
of cars for its through and local freight is done in the
Rice's Point yard where there are fifty-five tracks, each
four thousand feet long and at Furnace, where there are
fifteen tracks, cars are also switched and assembled. At
Berwind and Boston, two intermediate points, where
there are respectively nine and six tracks, cars are frequently set out or picked up by transfer trains. The
transfer trains here in question appear to have run solid
between Rice's Point and Furnace. Trains are run by
the Northern Pacific on this line at a speed varying from
I
'three to eighteen miles an hour.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

The company contends that the rule applied in United
State8v. Erie R. R. Co., 237 U. S. 402; United States v.
Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co., 237 U. S. 410,
and Louisville & Jeffersonville Bridge Co. v. United States,
249 U. S. 534,1 is not applicable, because here, unlike those
cases, no part of the trains' journey was performed on a
track used as part of the main line of the Northern Pacific
system. If use of the road as part of a main line were
essential in order that operations on it be controlled by
the Safety Appliance Act, the requirement would be satisfied in this case by the fact that two independent companies use the road for freight trains under air control and
that the passenger trains of another company cross it.
"Not only were these [the defendant's] trains exposed
to the hazalds which that provision was intended to avoid
or minimize, but unless their engineers were .able readily
and quickly to check or control their movements they
were a serious menace to the safety of other trains which
the statute was equally designed to protect." UnitedStates
v. Chicago Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co., supra. But
there is nothing in the act which limits the application
of the provision here in question to operations on main
line tracks. The requirement that train brakes shall be
coupled so as to be under engine control is in terms (32
Stat. 943) applicable to "all trains . . . used on any
railroad engaged in interstate commerce." It is admitted
that this railroad is engaged in interstate commerce; and
the cases cited show that transfer trains, like those*here
involved, are "trains" within the meaning of the act.
A moving locomotive with cars attached is without the
provision of the act only when it is not a tiain; as wh~re
the operation is that of switching, classifyin and assembling cars within railroad yards for the purpose of making
That case was decided by this court, April 21, 1919. The decision
of the Circuit Court of Appeals in the case at bar was rendered January 15, 1919.

UNITED STATES v. LEHIGH VALLEY R. R. CO.
251.

255

Syllabus.

up trains. Congress has not imposed upon courts applying the act any duty to weigh the dangers incident to
particular operations; and we have no occasion to consider the special dangers incident to operating trains under
the conditions here presented.
The judgment of the United States Circuit Court of
Appeals is
Reversed.

UNITED STATES v. LEHIGH VALLEY RAILROAD
COMPANY ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 1. Argued October 12, 13, 1916; restored to docket for reargument May 21, 1917; reargued November 7, 1917; restored to docket
for reargument June 10, 1918; submitted October 7, 1919; restored
to docket for oral argument May 17, 1920; reargued October 5, 1920.
-Decided December 6, 1920.
Prior to the enactment of the Anti-Trust Law, the Lehigh Valley
Railroad Company, in combination with the Lehigh Valley Coal
Company, a subsidiary created and operated as a mere agency or
instrumentality of the Railroad Company, deliberately enterei upon
the policy of purchasing and leasing the anthracite coal lrhnds in
Pennsylvania tributary to its extensive railroad system, and of buying up the stocks of corporations owning such lands, for the purpose
of controlling the mining, transportation and gale of the coal to be
obtained therefrom and of preventing and suppressing compatition,
especially in the transportation and sale of such coal in interstate
commerce. This policy was continued after the enactment of
the Anti-Trust Act, with the result that. a practical monopoly was
attained of the transportation and sale of the anthracite derived
from the lands tributary to the railroad, the amount so transported
coming to exceed one-fifth of the entire annual anthracite production

of the country. Considering this result, the methods employed in

