OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

MINNEAPOLIS, ST. PAUL & SAULT STE. MARIE
RAILWAY COMPANY v. C. L. MERRICK COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT, SIXTH JUDICIAL DISTRICT,
OF THE STATE OF NORTH DAKOTA.

No. 15. 'Argued January 29, 1929.-Decided December 20, 1920.
A decrwe of this court affirming "without prejudice" an injunctive decree of a state court upholding a statutory railroad rate against a
charge of confiscation, determines the adequacy of the rate for the
period antedating the decree, and is not superseded by a decree in
a subsequent suit holding the rate confiscatory upon new evidence
developed by a further test. P. 377.
A federal question which has been specifically settled and is no longer an
open one in this court, is not an adequate basis for a writ of error. Id.
Writ of error to review 35 N. Dak. 331, dismissed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. John L. Erdall, with whom Mr. A. H. Bright And
Mr. H. B. Dike were on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Alfred Zuger and Mr. Andrew Miller, with whom
Mr. B. F. Tillotson was on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the court.
This is a companion case to Minneapolis, St. Paul &
Sault Ste. Marie Ry. Co. v. Washburn Lignite Coal CO., just
decided, ante, 370, and was brought by a shipper to recover
charges exacted in excess of the statutory rate. The
shipments were made prior to the first judgment in the
injunction suit, when- the carrier was refusing to give
effect to the schedule; 'and the excess was paid under pro-

MINNEAPOLIS &c. RY. v. MERRICK CO.
376.

377

Opinion of the Court.

,test and because the carrier would not deliver the coal on
payment of the statutory rate. In the trial court there was
a judgment against the shipper, and this was reversed by
the Supreme Court with a direction to award the shipper
the amount claimed. 35 N. Dak. 331. The carrier prosecutes this writ of error.
The pleadings, the opinion of the Supreme Court, ,and
the briefs in this court, show that the only controversy in
that court was over the meaning and effect of the first
judgment in the injunction suit as affirmed by. this court
"without prejudice," etc. On the part of the shipper it
was insisted that that judgment finally and conclusively
determined the validity of the statutory rate in respect of
the period preceding its rendition; and on the part of the
carrier it was insisted that the judgment was interlocutory
merely and was entirely superseded and beld for naught
by the subsequent judgment of this court in the later
proceeding. The court sustained the shipper's. contention
and rejected that of the carrier, saying:
"The fallacy in respondent's [carrier's] contention, as
we view it, lies in the unwarranted assumption that the
latter judgment relates back and supersedes the first.
When respondent [carrier] applied for and was granted
leave to make a new showing as to the confiscatory character of the statutory rates, it amounted in legal effect to
the commencement of a new action to determine a new
issue; to-wit, whether as applied to and in the light of facts
subsequently arising, such statutory rates are confiscatory. The case was not reopened for the purpose of relitigating the issues formerly decided, nor was the former
decree in any way affected. This is made clear by the
recent decision of the Supreme Court in Missouri v.
Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co., 241 U. S. 533."
In support of that view the court quoted portions of the
opinion in the case cited, including the following:
"In a rate case where an assertion of confiscation was

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

not upheld because of the weakness of the facts supporting
it, the practice came to be that the decree rejecting the
claim and giving effect to the statute was, where it was
deemed the situation justified it, qualified as 'without
prejudice,' not to leave open the controversy as to the
peFiod -with which the decree dealt, and which it concluded, but in order not to prejudice rights of property in
the future if from future operation and changed conditions
arisi:g in such future it resulted that there was cbnfiscation. And the same limitation arising from a solicitude
not to unduly restrain in the future the operation of the
law came to be applied where the asserted confiscation was
held to be established. In other words, the decree enjoining the enforcement of the statute in that case was also
qualified as without prejudice to the enforcement of the
statute in the future if a change in conditions arose.
A complete illustration of the operation of the
qualification is afforded by the North Dakota Cae, just
cited [216 U. S. 579], since in'that case as a result of the
qualification 'without prejudice' the case was subsequently
reopened. and upon a consideration of new conditions
arising in such future period, a different result followed
[236 U, S. 5851 from that which had been previously
reached."
When we have in mind the question which the Supreme
Court was called on to decide, and did decide, and the fact
that the question was no longer an open one in this. court,
as is shown by our opinion in the Missouri Case, it is
apparent that this writ of error- is without any adequate
basis.
Writ of error dismissed.

