OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Syllabus.

254 U. S.

property and open to general use. The product of this
process was known and open to public use. To supply
such products as the patentee has described in the broad
claims in suit may have been new and useful, but does not
in our opinion arise to the dignity of invention, and is an
advance step which would occur to one skilled in the art
.when investigating and considering the subject. It follows that the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals must
be reversed and the cause remanded to the District Court
with directions to dismiss the bill on the ground that
claims 1 and 2 are void for the reasons stated in thii
opinion.
Reversed.

DE REES v. COSTAGUTA ET AL., INDIVIDUALLY
AND AS CO-PARTNERS COMPOSING THE COPARTNERSHIP OF DAVID COSTAGUTA AND
COMPANY, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 341. Submitted October 11, 1920.-Decided December 6, 1920.
A jurisdictional appeal, directly to this court from the District Court
under § 238 of the Judicial Code, will not lie where the question of
jurisdiction presented and decided involved only principles common
to courts in general and not the jurisdiction of the District Court as
a federal court. P. 173.
Whether the allegations of a bill are adequate to justify the relief
sought, is not a question of jurisdiction. Id.
Where the jurisdiction of the District Court is invoked against nonresident defendants under Jud. Code, § 57, to enforce a lien on property Within the district claimed to result from a contract between
them and the plaintiff, a decision quashing service by publication,
followed by a judgment dismissing the bill, upon the ground that

DE REES v. COSTAGUTA.
166.

Argument for Appellant.

the contract alleged creates no lien upon or right in rem in such
property, does not involve the jurisdiction of the court as a federal
court. Id. Chase v. Wetziar, 225 U. S. 79, distinguished.
Questions arising under the Constitution are not presented in this
case. P. 174.
Appeal dismissed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Marion Erwin and Mr. Frederick M. Czaki for
appellant:
The District Court had general jurisdiction of the
parties.,
All the requisite elements existed to give the court
jurisdiction of the subject-matter under § 57, Jud. Code.
Goodman v. Niblack, 102 U. S. 556; Louisville & Nashville
R. R. Co. v. Western Union Telegraph Co., 234 U. S. 369;
Chesley v. Morton, 9 App. Div. 461. Distinguishing:
York County Savings Bank v. Abbot, 139 Fed. Rep. 988;
Jones v. Gould, 149 Fed. Rep. 153; Wabash R. R. Co. v.
West Side Belt R. R. Co., 235 Fed. Rep. 645.
The constitutional principle invoked against the exercise by the court of the power to dismiss the bill, in part
on ex parte affidavits in opposition to the jurisdictional
averments of the bill, in the manner and form in which
it was done, raised and raises a constitutional question
not merely incidentally collateral to the general jurisdiction of the court derived from the Constitution, but which
goes to the power of the court to deprive the plaintiff
without due process of law of his right of property in the
suit, by a procedure which deprived him of such right.
The constitutional question goes to the marrow of the
jurisdictional question, and we think that the court has
plenary jurisdiction over the whole case under § 238,
Jud. Code. We know of no decision of this court which
covers this matter, unless it be by inference, Filhiol v.
Torney, 194 U. S. 356.

168

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Appellees.

254 U. S.

A constitutional question may become "involved"
or "drawn in question" by the decision or action of the
court as well as by the acts of the parties (Chippel v.
United States, 160 U. S. 499, 507, 509), and if it exists
it is immaterial whether there is or not a certificate as to
the jurisdiction, so far as investing this court with plenary
power to review the entire case. The constitutional question being paramount, the limitation on review is not
operative, certainly not where the one involves the other.
The limitation is operative only where there is a jurisdictional question and questions other than constitutional
ones involved.
Section 37 of the Code gave the court no power under
the circumstances to dismiss for want of jurisdiction without any plea to the jurisdiction on which evidence might
be taken and witnesses examined pro and con. Hartog
v. Memory, 116 U. S. 588; Turpin v. Lemon, 187 U. S.
51, 58; Hurtado v. California, 110 U. S. 516, 539. And
here the court in fact reached its conclusion, not on the
face of the bill merely, but in part through facts set up
in the opposing ex parte affidavits as interpretative of
the contract. But in the manner in which it proceeded
it deprived plaintiff of due process of law and his constitutional right to invoke the jurisdiction of the court
for protection of his property right, and thus it was without jurisdiction to dismiss the bill upon the ex parte
evidence it so received and considered.
Mr. Walter H. Merritt for appellees. Mr. A. Delafield
Smith was also on the brief.
They cited, on the jurisdictional question: Fore River
Shipbuilding Co. v. Hagg, 219 U. S. 175, 177; Swift-& ,Co.
v. Hoover, 242 U. S. 107; Empire State-Idaho Mining Co.
v. Hanley, 205 U. S. 225, 232; Louisville Trust Co. v. Knott,
191 U. S. 225; Bache v. Hunt, 193 U. S. 523; Blythe v.
Hinckley, 173 U. S. 501; Illinois Central R. R. Co. v.

Dz REES v. COSTAGUTA.
166.

Opinion of the Court.

Adams, 180 U. S. 28, 35; Scully v. Bird, 209 U. S. 481;
Smith v. McKay, 161 U. S. 355; Louisville & Nashville
R. R. Co. v. Western Union Telegraph Co., 234 U. S. 369,
372; Public Service Co. v. Corboy, 250 U. S. 153, 162;
Darnell v. Illinois Central R. R. Co., 225 U. S. 243;
Chase v. Wetzlar, 225 U. S. 79; Gage "v. Riverside Trust
Co., 156 Fed. Rep. 1002; Jones v. Gould, 149 Fed. Rep.
153.
MR. JUSTYCE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

The appellant, plaintiff below, a resident and citizen
of the State of New Jersey, filed a bill.of complaint against
David Costaguta, Marcos A. Algiers, Alejandro Sassoeli,
Eugenio Ottolenghi, individually, and as co-partners
composing the firm of David Costaguta & Company,
asserting that they, and each of them, were aliens, and
residents of the Republic of Argentine, South America.
The bill joined as defendants Renado Taffell, a British
subject, resident of New York and the Southern District
thereof, and the American-European Trading Corporation,
organized under the laws of New York.
The bill sets forth at length a contract whereby it is
alleged that a co-partnership was formed between the
plaintiff and David Costaguta & Company for the buying
and selling of hosiery. The bill alleges that to carry the
contract into effect a place of business was established in
-New York City; that disagreements arose between the
parties; that plaintiff elected to terminate the contract
and- demanded a liquidation of the merchandise and an
accounting; that the firm of David Costaguta & Company
caused the American-European Corporation to be organized under the laws of New York and that said firm caused
certain assets of the co-partnership to be transferred to
the corporation in fraud of the plaintiff, and which assets,
it was alleged, were within the territorial jurisdiction of

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

the Southern District of New York. Plaintiff prayed a
dissolution of the alleged co-partnership; the liquidation
of the property thereof; that the non-resident defendants
account for their acts and transactions, and that it be
established what sum, if any, remained due to the plaintiff; that the plaintiff be decreed to have a lien upon all
of the property of the defendants and on the property
and assets of the American-European Trading Corporation; that a receiver pendente lite be named. An order
was prayed for the delivery of the property to the receiver,
and an injunction to restrain its transfer or disposition.
A temporary restraining order was asked, pending the
hearing and the return of the rule nisi, prohibiting in any
manner or form interference with the property, or removing the same from the jurisdiction of the court. An order
was issued requiring the defendants to show cause why
such receiver pendente lite should not be appointed, and
the defendants required to transfer the property to such
receiver, and enjoining them from otherwise transferring
the same. The subpoena and order for the rule were
served on the resident defendants American-European
Trading Corporation and Taffell. Plaintiff then procured an order for service upon the non-resident defendants by publication under § 57 of the Judicial Code. The
non-resident defendants filed a special appearance for
the purpose of asking the court to quash and set aside the
order for service by publication, and for an order requiring
the plaintiff to show cause why an order should not be
made vacating and setting aside the service by publication,
and also to vacate, quash and set aside certain alleged
service on an agent of the firm in the Southern District
of New York. A motion was also made by the AmericanEuropean Trading Corporation and Taffell, by special
appearance, for the purpose of opposing the jurisdiction.
The District Court denied the plaintiff's motion for an
injunction and receiver, and granted the non-resident

Di REES'v. COSTAGUTA.'
166.

'Opinion of the Court.

defendants' motion to vacate the- order for service by
publication. This resulted in the dismissal of the plaintiff's bill by final decree, and the case was brought here
by the plaintiff under § 238 of the Judicial Code upon the
question of jurisdiction of the court.
The District Judge after entering the decrees of dismissal made a certificate as follows:
"I hereby certify that said decrees were entered solely
because the case as made by the bill did not set forth a
legal or equitable claim to or lien on the property in the
district, of which this court would have jurisdiction within
the meaning of Section 57 of the Judicial Code, or in which
this court could render a judgment otherwise than a judgment in personam against the non-resident aliens who appeared specially and objected to the jurisdiction of the
court."
The Judge als0 delivered an opinion, which is in the
record, holding that under the terms of the contract the
plaintiff had no right in the assets as such, and no partner's
'lien upon the property, but was confined to his rights in
personam against the firm, and that, therefore, there could
be no service by publication under §57 of the Judicial
Code. That section is a reenactment of §8 of the Act
of March 3, 1875, c. 137,. 18 Stat. 472. It provides for
service by publication when in any suit commenced in
any district court of the United States to enforce any
legal or equitable lien upon, or claim to, or to remove any
incumbrance or lien or cloud upon the title to real or
personal property within the district where such suit is
brought, one or more of the defendants therein shall not be
an inhabitant of or found within the said district, or shall
not voluntarily appear thereto.'
Section 238 of the Judicial Code provides that, the case
x Section 57. "When in any suit commenced in any district court of
the United States to enforce any legal or equitable lien upon or claim
to, or to remove any incumbrance or lien br cloud upon-the title to real

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

being one in which the jurisdiction of the court is in issue,
that question shall be certified to this court.
The appellees challenge the jurisdiction of this court
to entertain this appeal on the ground that the case does

not present a jurisdictional issue properly reviewable by
this court.
or personal property within the district where such suit is brought, one
or more of the defendants therein shall not be an inhabitant of or found
within the said district, or shall not voluntarily appear thereto, it shall
be lawful for the court to make an order directing such absent defendant or defendants to appear, plead, answer, or demur by a day certain
to be designated, which order shall be served on such absent defendant
or defendants, if practicable, wherever found, and also upon the person
or persons in possession or charge of said property, if any there be; or
where such personal service upon such absent defendant or defendants
is not practicable, such order shall be published in such manner as the
court may direct, not less than once a week for six consecutive weeks.
In case such absent defendant shall not appear, plead, answer, or demur
within the time so limited, or within some further time, to be allowed
by the court, in its discretion, and upon proof of the service or publication of said order and of the performance of the directions contained
in the same, it shall be lawful for the court to entertain jurisdiction,
and proceed to the hearing and adjudication of such suit in the same
manner as if such absent defendant had been served with process
within the said district; but said adjudication shall, as regards said
absent defendant or defendants without appearance, affect only the
property which shall have been the subject of the suit and under, the
jurisdiction of the court therein, within such district; and when apart
of the said real or personal property against which such proceedings
shall be taken shall be within another district, but within the same
State, such suit may be brought in either district in said State: Provided, hoever, That any defendant or defendants not actually personally notified as above provided may, at any time within one year
after final judgment in any suit mentioned in this section, enter his
appearance in said suit in said district court, and thereupon the said
court shall make an order setting aside the judgment therein and permitting said defendant or defendants to plead therein on payment by
him or them of such costs as the court shall deem just; and thereupon said suit shall be proceeded with to final judgment according
to law."

Dm REES v. COSTAGUTA.
166.

Opinion of the Court.

%Sincethe decision of Shepard v. Adams, 168 U. S. 618,
it has been the accepted doctrine that where there is a
contentionthat no valid service of process has been made
'upon the defendant, and the judgment is rendered without
jurisdiction over the person, such judgment can be reviewed by direct appeal to this court. This principle was
restated and previous cases cited as late as Merriam & Co.
v. Saalfield, 241 U. S. 22, 26.
It is equally well settled that, where the question of
jurisdiction presented and decided turns upon questions
of general law, determinable upon principles alike applicable to actions brought in other jurisdictions, the jurisdiction of the court as a federal court is not presented in
suchwise as to authorize the jurisdictional appeal directly
to this court; and the question must be decided as other
questions are, by the usual Course of appellate procedure,
giving review in the Circuit Court of Appeals. Louisville
Trust Co. v. Knott, 191 U. S. 225; Bache v. Hunt, 193 U. S.
523; Fore.River Shipbuilding Co. v. Hagg, 219 U. S. 175;
Scully v. Bird, 209 U. S. 481, 485; Bogart v. Southern
Pacific Co., 228 U. S. 137.
That the question of the adequacy of the allegations of
the bill to justify the relief sought does not present a
jurisdictional question was held in Smith v. McKay, 161
U. S. 355; Illinois Central R. R. Co. v. Adams, 180 U. S.

28; Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Western Union
Telegraph Co., 234 U. S. 369, 372; Darnell v. Illinois Central R. R. Co., 225 U. S. 243; Public Service Co. v. Corboy,
250 U. S. 153, 162.
The opinion of the court below, read in connection with
the certificate, shows that it was held that the contract
set up in the bill gave no lien upon or right in rem in the
assets sought to be reached within the district. The
question was presented, the court in the exercise of jurisdiction, after an examination of the contract set forth in
the bill and a consideration of its terms, determined it

174

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

upon principles which would have been equally applicable
had the question been presented in other jurisdictions.
Its decision, therefore, did not involve the jurisdiction
of the federal court as such, which, it is settled, is required
in order to justify a direct appeal to this court.
In Chase v. Wetzlar, 225 U. S. 79, the Act of March 3,
1875, now § 57 of the Judicial Code, was involved, and
there was an attempt to have service on alien defendants
by publication under the provisions of the statute. The
issue made was as to whether there was property of the
defendants within the jurisdiction of the court. That
issue was held to present a question of jurisdiction properly reviewable in this court under § 238. In the case
now presented no question is made as to the presence of
property in the district. The attempted service was set
aside, and the bill dismissed, upon consideration of the
allegations of the bill which, it was held, upon application
of general principles, did not show that the plaintiff had
any lien upon or interest in the property authorizing him
to invoke the procedure outlined in § 57 of the Judicial
Code.
As to the contention that the whole case is here upon a
constitutional question because of the procedure in the
court below, § 238 provides that when a case comes here
upon a question of jurisdiction, that question alone shall
be certified. Moreover, we find no merit in the alleged
depiivation of constitutional rights so as to present questions arising under the Constitution. .
It follows that the appeal must be dismissed for want of
jurisdiction.
Dismissed.

