GOLDSMITH-GRANT CO. v. UNITED STATES.

505

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

J. W. GOLDSMITH, JR.-GRANT COMPANY v.
UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF GEbRGIA.

No. 214.

Argued December 8, 1920.M-Decided January 17, 1921.

1. Under § 3450, Rev. Stats., which declares, inter alia, that every
.carriage, or other conveyance whatsoever, used in the removal or
for the deposit and concealment of goods removed, deposited or
concealed with intent to defraud the United States of any tax thereon,
shall be forfeited, an automobile, so used by a person who had it on
credit from an owner who retained the title, is subject to libel and
forfeiture, although the owner was without notice of the firbidden
use. The statute treats the thing as the offender. P. 509.
2. So construed and applied, the statute does not deprive the owner
of property in violation of the Fifth Amendment. Id.
3. Section 3450, in this respect, is not modified or affected by §§ 3460
and 3461. P. 512.
Affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. L. C. Hopkins, with whom Mr. C. T. Hopkins, Mr.
J. L. Hopkins and Mr. Charles B. Shelton were on the
brief, for plaintiff in error:
Forfeiture of the property of an innocent man for the
wrong of another is violative of fundamental rights. The
exact, language of § 3450, Rev. Stats., if strictly taken,
authorizes such a forfeiture.
Therefore § 3450 is unconstituitional, unless it can be so
construed as not to authorize such a forfeiture. Such a
construction is possible. United States v. Doremus, 249

U. S. 86.
If it is claimed that in Dobbins's Distillely v. United
States, 96 U. S. 395, and United States v. Stowell, 133

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argmnent for the United States.

254 U. S.

U. S. 1, this -court has decided against such a construction
of statutes similar to § 3450,. we respectfully submit that
(with the possible exception of the butts in the latter
case), those two cases are distinguishable on their facts
from the case at bar. If the facts as to the butts in the
Stowell Case are not so distinguishable, we think this
court should review and overrule that part of that decision.
But no question as to the constitutionality of the acts
there under consideration was made in either of those cases.
The constitutional question made in the case at bar is
open.The theory that in these in rem proceedings the thing
is the offender and forfeitable irrespective of the guilt or
innocence of its owner, is a worn out fiction, to which
the Circuit Courts of Appeals still adhere in these forfeiture cases. It should be discarded. Boyd v. United
States, 116 U. S. 616; Coffey v. United States, '116 U. S.
427.
Congress having no general police power, and the Act
of 1866, of which § 3450 is a part, being a revenue act,
Congress had no power to put into it any penalty which
was not a reasonable and necessary aid to the collection
of the revenue. The forfeiture provision of §3450 is not
such an aid. It is neither reasonable nor necessary. If
the objectionable features of § 3450 were inserted in an
attempt to exercise the police power, they are void.
United States v. Jin Fuey Moy, 241 U. S. 394; United
States v. Dewitt, 9 Wall. 41.
Mrs. Annette Abbott Adams, Assistant Attorney General, for the United States:
By a long line of decisions it has been established that
the forfeitures authorized by these two statutes (Rev.
Stats., §§ 3450, 3062) are absolute and include the interest of an owner who was not a participant in the illegal

GOLDSMITH-GRANT CO. v. UNITED STATES. 507
505.

Argument for the United States.

acts which effected the forfeiture, and had no knowledge
of them. United States v. Two Horses, 28 Fed. Cas.
16,578; United States v. Two Bay Mules, 36 Fed. Rep. 84;
Dobbins's Distillery v. United States, 96 U. S. 395; United
States. v. One Black Horse, 129 Fed. Rep. 167; United
State, v. Stowell, 133 U. S. 1; United States v. Mincey,
254 Fed. Rep. 287; Logan v. United States, 260 Fed. Rep.
746; and United States v. One Saxon Automobile, 257 Fed.
Rep. 251, overruling United States v. Two Barrels Whisky,
96 Fed. Rep. 479.
Similar forfeitures have been sustained under other
revenue acts. United States v. 246'/ Pounds of Tobacco,
103 Fed. Rep. 791; United States v. 220 Patented Machines,
99 Fed. Rep. 559; United States v. The Little Charles, 26
Fed. Cas. 16,612; United States v. Brig Malek Adhel, 2
How. 209; The Hampton, 5 Wall. 372; The Frolic, 148
Fed. Rep. 921.
The statute, so construed, is constitutional. 'Similar
forfeiture statutes have been in effect since the foundation of the Nation, and the principle upon which they
are based was, even before that, established in the general
law. These forfeitures are based primarily upon the
p'oposition that it is the thing that offends. It has long
been recognized that it is within the power of government
to require owners of property to assume certain obligations
regarding its control and disposition. See People v. Barbiere, 33 Cal. App. 770, and cases cited.
There is nothing unreasonable in requiring the owner
of a vehicle to see to it that his property is not used in the
execution of frauds upon the Govermnent. And if for
failure so to do his property becomes forfeited to the
United States, his hardship is no greater than that endured by the innocent purchaser without notice, who is
held to take nothing by his purchase after the offense.
See Henderson's Distilled' Spirits, .14 Wall. 44; United
States v. 1,960 Bags of Coffee, 8 Cranch, 398.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the

court.
By an Act of Ccngress passed July 13, 1866, c. 184, 14
Stat. 98, 151 (now §3450, Revised Statutes, and we shall
so refer to it), it was enacted that, "Whenever any goods
or commodities for or in respect whereof any tax is or
shall be imposed,
are removed, or are deposited
or concealed in any place, with intent to defraud the
United States of such tax, or any part thereof, all such
goods and commodities,

.

.

.

shall be forfeited; and

in every such case all the casks, vessels, cases, or other
packages whatsoever, containing, or which shall have contained, such goods or commodities, respectively, and every
vessel, boat, cart, carriage, or other conveyance whatsoever, and all horses or other animals, and all things used
in the removal or for the deposit or concealment thereof,
respectively, shall be forfeited."
In pursuance of this enactment a libel was filed against
a Hudson automobile of the appraised value of $800, and
it charged that the automobile before its seizure was used
by three persons who were named, in the removal and
for the deposit and concealment of 58 gallons of distilled
spirits upon which a tax was imposed by the United
States and had not been paid.
Plaintiff in error, herein referred to as the Grant Company, was, on its petition, permitted to intervene and to
give bond and replevy the automobile.
The Company subsequently answered, alfeging the
facts hereinafter mentioned, and, in addition, pleaded
against a condemnation and forfeiture of the car the Constitution of the United States, especially Article V of
Amendments, which prohibits the deprivation of life,
liberty or property without due process of law.
The case was tried to a jury upon an agreed statement
of facts, which recited that: The Grant Company was a

GOLDSMITH-GRANT CO. v. UNITED STATES.
505.

509

Opinion of the Court.

seller of automobiles and was the owner in fee simple of
the automobile seized in this case, and sold it, retaining
the title for unpaid purchuse money, to J. G. Thompson
[he was named in the libel], who was a taxi-cab operator,
and W. M. Lamb, who was in the newspaper business;
that the car was used by Thompson in violation of § 3450,
Rev. Stats., but that such use was without the knowledge
of the Company or of any of its officers, nor did it or they
have any notice or reason to suspect that it would be illegally used.
The court charged the jury to render a -verdict finding
the car guilty, overruling a motion of the Grant Company
to direct a verdict for it on the grounds: (1) That § 3450,
Rev. Stats., was in violation of Article V of Amendments
of the Constitution of the United States, in that it deprived the Grant Company of its property without due
process of law. (2) That the section was not to be construed to forfeit the title of a third party entirely innocent
of wrongdoing, and that the proper construction of the
section was that it contemplated forfeiting only the interest or title of the wrongdoer. (3) That the title reserved by the Company for the balance of the purchase
money had never been divested, and, therefore, could not
be condemned, and that only the-interest of Thompson
and Lamb could be condemned.
The jury found the car guilty, and in pursuance of the
verdict a judgment of condemnation and forfeiture was
entered, but, as a bond with security had been griven for
the car, it was adjudged that the United Statet, recover
from the Grant Company as principal and J. W. Goldsmith, Jr., as security, the principal sum of $800 and
costs. Execution was awarded accordingly.
Motior for a new trial was denied, and this writ of error
was then prosecuted.
This statement indicates the questions in the case and,
as we have seen, involves the construction of § 3450 and

510"

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

its constitutionality, if it be not construed as contended
by the Grant Company.
If the case were the first of its kind, it and its apparent
paradoxes might compel a lengthy discussion to harmonize
the section with the accepted tests of human conduct.
Its words taken literally forfeit property illicitly used
though the owner of it did not participate in or have
knowledge of the illicit use. There is strength, therefore,
in the contention that, if such be the inevitable meaning
of the section, it seems to violate that justice which should
be the foundation of the due process of law required by
the Constitution. It, is, hence, plausibly urged that such
could not have been the intention of Congress, that Congress necessarily had in mind the facts and practices of
the world and that, in the conveniences of business and
of life, property is often and sometimes necessarily put
into the possession of another than its owner. And it
follows, is the contention, that Congress only intended to
condemn the interest the possessor of the property might
have to punish his guilt, and not to forfeit the title of the
owner who was without guilt.
Regarded in this abstraction the argument is formidable,
but there are other and militating considerations. Congress must have taken into account the necessities of the
Government, its revenues and policies, and was faced
with the necessity of making provision against their violation or evasion and the ways and means ef violation or
evasion. In breaches of revenue provisions some forms of
property are facilities, and therefore it may be said, that,
Congress interposes the care and responsibility of their
owners in aid of the prohibitions of the law and its punitive provisions, by ascribing to the property a certain
personality, a power of complicity and guilt in the wrong.
In such case there is some analogy to the law of deodand
by which a personal chattel that was the immediate cause
of the death of any reasonable creature was forfeited.

GOLDSMITH-GRANT CO. v. UNITED STATES.
505.

511

Opinion of the Court.

To the superstitious reason to which the rule was ascribed,
Blackstone adds "that such misfortunes are in part owing
to the negligence of the owner, and therefore he is properly
punished by such forfeiture." And he observed, "A like
punishment is in like cases inflicted by the Mosaical law:
'if an ox gore a man that he die, the ox shall be stoned,
and his flesh shall not be eaten.' And, among the Athenians, whatever was the cause of a man's death, by falling
upon him, was exterminated or cast out of the dominions
of the republic." See also The Blackheath, 195 U. S. 361,
366, 367; Liverpool &c. Navigation Co. v. Brooklyn Terminal, 251 U. S. 48, 53.
But whether the reason for § 3450 be artificial or real,
it is too firmly fixed in the punitive and remedial jurisprudence of the country to be now displaced. Dobbins's
Distillery v. United States, 96 U. S.395, is an example of
the rulings we have before made. It cites and reviews
prior cases, applying their doctrine and sustaining the
constitutionality of such laws. It militates, therefore,
against the view that § 3450 is not applicable to a property
whose owner is without guilt. In other words, it is the
ruling of that case, based on prior cases, that the thing
is primarily considered the offender. And the principle
and practice have examples in admiralty. The Palmyra,
12 Wheat. 1.
The same principle was declared in United States v.
Stowell, 133 U. S. 1. The following cases at circuit may
also be referred to: United States v. Mincey, 254 Fed. Rep.
287 (1918); Logan v. United States, 260 Fed. Rep. 746
(1919); United States v. One Saxon Automobile, 257 :ed.
Rep. 251; United States v. 246%/ Pounds of Tobacco, 103
Fed. Rep. 791; United States v. 220 Patented Mach nes,
99 Fed. Rep. 559.
Counsel resist the reasoning and precedent of these
on
cases in an argument of considerable length erectedman
an innocent
making
of
injustice
the
of
contention
the

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

suffer for the acts of a guilty one, and the anxious solicitude
the court must feel and exercise, and which, it is said, it
has often expressed, and by which it has been impelled
to declare laws unconstitutional that offend against reason
and justice.
The changes are rung on the contention, and illustrations are given of what is possible under the law if the
contention be rejected. It is said that a Pullman sleeper
can be forfeited if a bottle of: illicit liquor be taken upon
it by a passenger, and that an ocean steamer can be condemned to confiscation if a package of like liquor be innocently received and transported by it. Whether the indicated possibilities under the law are justified we are
not called upon to consider. It has been in existence since
1866, and has not yet received such amplitude of application. When such application shall be made it will be
time enough to pronounce upon it. And we also reserve
opinion as to whether the section can be extended to
property stolen from the owner or otherwise taken from
him without his privity or consent.
Counsel further urge that § 3450 should be read in connection with §§ 3460 and 3461, and other sections of the
Revised Statutes, and should be construed to provide for
the fcrfeiture of no interest for which those sections offer
protection. We are, however, unable to concur with
counsel that they modify the requirement or effect of
§ 3450. They have no relation to the latter section, nor
is their remedy applcable to cases under that section.
There is an intimation that in the pxior cases there was
something in the relation ofi the parties to the property
or its uses from which it was possible to infer its destination to an illegal purpose; at any rate, the risk of such
purpose; and that such relation had influence in the decision of the cases.
We are unable to accept the intimation. There may,
indeed, be greater risk to the owner of property in one

BULLOCK v. R. R. COMM. OF FLORIDA.
505.

513

Syllabus.

form or purpose of its bailment than in another, but
wrong cannot be imputed to him by reason of the form or
purpose. It is the illegal use that is the material consideration, it is that which works the forfeiture, the guilt or
innocence of its owner being accidental. If we should
regard simply the adaptability of a particular form of
property to an illegal purpose, we should have to ascribe
facility to an automobile as. an aid to the violation of the
law. It is a "thing" that can be used in the removal of
"goods and commodities" and the law is explicit in its
condemnation of such things.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS dissents.

BULLOCK, JUDGE OF THE CIRCUIT COURT OF
THE FIFTH JUDICIAL CIRCUIT OF THE STATE
OF FLORIDA, ET AL. v. STATE OF FLORIDA
UPON THE RELATION OF THE RAILROAD
COMMISSION OF THE STATE OF FLORIDA
ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
FLORIDA.

No. 262.

Argued December 6, 7, 1920.-Decided January 17, 1921.

1. The judgment of the state Supreme Court was reviewable in this
case by certiorari and not by writ of error. P. 518.
2. Where a judgment of a state Supreme Court prohibiting proceedings in a lower court was essentially based on the denial of a substantive right claimed by a party, this court is not precluded from
reviewing, on a constitutional ground, by the fact that the judgment was in terms based on a denial of the prohibited court's jurisdiction. P. 520.

