OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Syllabus.

254 U. S.

egress into or from a State, have for their direct and necessary effect an interference with the performance of duties
which it is incumbent upon the United States to discharge,
as illustrated in the CrandallCase, supra.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTCE CIxKE dissents.

WALLS, ATTORNEY GENERAL -OF THE STATE
OF WYOMING, ET AL. v. MIDLAND CARBON
COMPANY ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF WYOMING.

No. 219.

Argued October 13, 1920.'-Decided December 13, 1920.

1. As applied to the facts of this case, the statute of Wyoming which
prohibits, as wasteful, the burning and consumption of natural
gas for its products without fully -and actually applying and utilizing its heat for other manufacturing or domestic purposes, and
which forbids owners or lessees of gas wells to sell or dispose of such
gas for the manufacture of carbon or other resultant products in the
making of which its heat is not so utilized for other manufacturing or
domestic purposes, and which limits the prohibition to cases where
the gas wells or sources of supply are within ten miles of any incorporated town or industrial plant, and penalizes infractions as misdemeanors,-is a legitimate exercise of the police power, and is not
constitutionally objectionable as taking property without due process or as an unreasonable or arbitrary discrimination. Pp. 313 el seq.
2. So held, where it was objected that enforcement of the statute
would destroy a heavy investment in a plant for the manufacture of
carbon black, a substance of great utility, the value of which, with
that of the gasoline also produced in the process, was claimed to
exceed any other value obtainable from a like quantity of gas, and
the manufacture of which, it was claimed, would be impracticable
if the heat from the gas must be utilized as the statute prescribed. Id.
3. The statute seeks merely to prevent the selection of products the

WALLS v. MIDLAND CARBON CO.
300.

Argument for Appellees.

production of which will tend to the rapid exhaustion of the gas
supply; and it is not to be construed as demanding that the heat
be utilized further than natural laws and existing instrumentalities
allow. P. 325.
4. Owing to the fact that natural gas has no fixed situs in the'qarth
but moves from place to place, possession of land is not possession of
the gas within it, and the landowner does not gain an absolute property in the gas until he has captured it. P. 316.
5. From this also it results that a State may interpose its police power
to prevent a Waste or disproportionate use of the gas by a particuiar
landowner in order to protect the equal right of other owners and to
conserve the gas as a resource of the State. Pp. 316-319, 323.
-Ohio Oil Co. v. Indiana, 177 U. S. 190.
6. In confining its application to cases where the source of the gas is
within ten miles of an incorporated town or industrial plant, the
Wyoming statute is within the limits of classification permissible
under the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Pp. 314, 324. Bacon v. Walker, 204 U. S. 311.
7. The validity of the regulation cannot depend upon the relative
- values or importance of the industries favorably and unfavorably
affected by it, or their relations to the welfare of the State, these
being matters for the judgment of the state legislature. P. 322.
8. The fact that plaintiffs' products-carbon black and gasoline-may
be sold for more than the gas consumed in making them would bring
for fuel purposes, is not a ground for denying the State the power to
prevent the disproportionate use and rapid depletion of the natural
gas supply involved in the process. Id.
Reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Henry E. Lutz, with whon. Mr. Wialiam L. Walls,
Attorney General of the State of Wyoming, was on the
brief, for appellants:
Mr. John W. Lacey and Mr. Reid L. Car, with whom
Mr. Herbert V. Lacey was on the brief, for appellees:
It is noteworthy that appellants did not, by affidavit
or otherwise, controvert any of the following matters:
(1) That appellees had, prior to the enactment of the

statute, made an investment in the business of manu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Appellees.

254 U. S.

facturing carbon black of nearly seven hundred thousand
dollars; (2) that the factory of the appellees is most efficient and eccnoiical, and yiblds the largest amount of
merchantable black that can be produced by any known
method; (3) that the market price and value of the products, gasoline and carbon black, exceed the market price
and value for any other purpose of the natural gas consumed to make them; (4) that carbon black made from
natural gas is not only useful but indispensable for the
manufacture of the printing inks required by the highspeed presses now in use, and its place can be supplied by
no substitute; (5) that it is further a necessity for various
manufactures of rubber, for carbon papers, typewr~iter
ribbons, phonograph records and many manufactured
articles of universal daily use; (6) that it is impossible so
to use gas in manufacturing carbon black that the heat
contained in the gas shall be "fully and actually used for
other manufacturing purposes or domestic purposes;"
(7) that the manufacturing operations of the appellees are*
so conducted as to cause no injury to the health, morals
or comfort of anybody; (8) that the inevitable effect of:
the statute is not only to require the Midland Company to
cease operating said factory, but to render it impossible to
sell oi use any gas derived from the wells of the Occidental
Cempany for the manufacture of carbon black at any time
or place; (9) nor is there the slightest attempt to prove
that anyone of the "incorporated towns" or "industrial
plants" owns any interest whatever in the gas wells or gas
lands located within a radius of ten miles outside their
boundaries. In other words, the showing is that the statute, instead of conserving gas for the reasonable use of allthe collective owners of the lands under which it lies, seeks
to appropriate the gas-or what appellants term a "paramount right" thereto-for the benefit of certain communities and industries in the vicinity of the gas wells,
and to deprive the owners of these gas lands and wells of

WALLS v. MIDLAND CARBON CO.
300.

Argument for Appellees.

the right to use or sell the gas they reduce to possession
in the manner that will produce the best return to the
owners and the greatest benefit to the public at large, via,.
for the manufacture of carbon black.
In Bacon v. Walker, 204 U. S. 311; a statute was examined which limited the herding and grazing of sheep
on the public domain within two miles of the'dwellings of
others than the sheep-owners. As will clearly appear from
the case, and especially from the two Idaho cases cited in
the opinion, one ground of sustaining the statute was that
herding sheep close to the habitation of a settler is a
nuisance. In Sweet v. Ballentine, 8 Idaho, 431 (cited in
'the opinion of this court) it was further emphasized that
the plaintiff was not the owner of the lands affected and
that "these statutes were not intended to prevent owners
from grazing sheep upon their own lands, although situated within two miles of the dwelling of another."
Not one of the cases cited by appellants furnishes either
authority or example upholding the right to take' away
property without price from anyifiividual merely for the
financial benefit of. another person or any number of
persons, although such seems to be the deduction made
from those cases.
Not one gives countenance to the claim that natural
gas, when reduced by the landowner to possession, is in.
any sense public property. Not one asserts the.power of
the legislature to deprive the owner of natural gas lands of
the right to sell in the best market, or to put to a use
beneficial and necessary to society,. such gas as- naturally
arisei in his wells, merely in order that he may thereby be
•compelled to keep his gasatill certain neighboring towns or
factories desire it. Each is within well-known principles
governing the exercise -of police power, and any. general
language used must be read in the light, of the facts involved.
It does not. follow that by calling the act a "conserva-

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Appellees.

254 U. S.

tion" measure, or by declaring the manufacture of carbon

black from natural gas to be" wasteful" or" extravagant,"
the legislature has foreclosed judicial consideration of the
subject. Bunting v. Oregon, 243 U. S. 426L 435; Coppage
v. Kansas, 236 U. S. 1; PassengerCases, 7 How. 283. The
principles governing inquiry into the propriety of the
purported exercise of police power were formulated long
ago in Lawton v. Steele, 152 U. S. 133. In the recent case
of Mountain Timber Co. v. Washington, 243 U. S. 219, this

court indicated the tests.
The authorities quoted, as well as those cited below,
fully establish not only that the true purpose and effect of
the act as distinguished from its ostensible purpose, but
also the reasonableness of the restrictions sought to be
imposed, and the truth of the accusation of waste are all
fully open to judicial review.
The business of manufacturing carbon black is a longestablished, necessary and legitimate one, neither noisome
nor a nuisance, nor a detriment to "public health, morals
or safety." The statute does not attempt to prescribe any
limitation as to the place where carbon-black factories
shall be located or maintained; does not attempt to deal
with the escape of natural gas into the air; does not seek to
prescribe for all landowners alike a limit as to the measure
or proportion of the productive capacity of each well that
shall be withdrawn or marketed; does not regulate the
right of proportionate acquisition, nor restrain any of the
collective owners from appropriating an undue or excessive
quantity through the use of pumps or other artificial
means of accelerating the natural flow.
What it does is, after the natural gas has been reduced
to possession and has thus become a commodity of commerce, to divest it of one of the attributes of property,
namely the right of disposal for an essential commercial
purpose. Concretely stated, it deprives the appellees altogether of the right to dispose of or use a single cubic foot of

WALLS v. MIDLAND CARBON CO.
300.

Argument for Appellees.

gas from their lands for the operation of their factory.
This it does by imposing conditions as to full utilization of
heat which are impossible of fulfillment.
The prohibition is imposed not upon all landowners
who derive their supply of gas from a common source or
reservoir, but only upon those whose wells are located
Within ten miles of any incorporated town or industrial
plant. Each incorporated town and each private industrial plant (except that of the appellees), is thus surrounded by a circle or prohibited zone, whose area is three
hundred and fourteen square miles. Elsewhere the ban is
inoperative. What is the object of the ten-mile limitation?
Admittedly, to benefit certain manufacturers and private
consumers, who are or may become purchasers of natural
gas, by depriving the owners of the gas produced in certain
large areas of the right of sale to certain cther manufacturers.
Natural gas is not public property. Ohio Oil Co. v.
Indiana, 177 U. S. 190, 209; Oklahoma v. Kansas Natural
Gas Co., 221 U. S. 229, 254; Haskell v. Kansas NaturalGas
Co., 224 U. S. 217. In the case at bar not only are the appellees among the common owners because owners of lands
in which the gas is found, but they have also become the
owners in possession of the gas itself as private property in
the four wells here involved.
Like the Oklahoma statute, the Wyoming statute does
exactly what .the Indiana statute did not do, and omits
precisely those. things which were with such ca.e included
in the Indiana statute. The Wyoming statute entirely
ignores the rights of the owners.of the land in which the
natural gas is found-the common owners of the gas. It
makes no provision for their protection. It does not
restrict the number of wells that may be drilled into the
gas reservoirs, nor the amount of gas that may be withdrawn by one well or by any one owner, nor does it prohibit
the discharge of the gas into the open air without making

306

OCTOBER TERM 1920.
Argument for Appellees.

254 U. S.

any use of it. And there is uncontradicted evidence in the
record that such waste within the true meaning of that
word is takin& place.
On the contrary, the sole purpose was to select the
market, to preserve the gas, not for the owners but for
third parties, that is to say, for private industries and
private consumers in incorporated towns.
The intent of the statute was to take away certain rights
to sell gas from the private owners of the gas and make a
-donation to that extent to certain towns and manufacturiing establishments. The purpose is commercial-the business welfare of these towns and manufacturing plants, as,
coal might be, or timber. Oklahoma v. Kansas Natural
Qas Co., 221 U. S. 255..
The peculiar form of the statute renders it applicable to
these appellees alone, while leaving the door open for
others to engage in similar manufacturing pursuits elsewhere in Wyoming. The inference is clear that the spoliation of the appellees for the advantage of the residents and
indust-ril plants of Lovell is the real object sought.
The Statute thus takes private property for private use
under pretext of the public good. These purposes are not
even public purposes such as would authorize the exercise
of eminent domain to take the property of the appellees in
their gas, nor yet public in such sense as would authorize
any taxes therefor to be levied upon the property here
involved even if it were located in one of the towns receiving the indirect benefits. Cole v. La Grange, 113 U. S. 1, 6;
Missouri Pacific Ry. Co. v. Nebraska, 164 U. S. 403; Missouri Pacific Ry. Co. v. Nebraska, 217 U. S.-196; Michigan
Sugar Co. v. Dix, 124 Michigan, 674;,Dodge v. Mi8sion
Township, 107 Fed. Rep. 827; Oxnard Beet Sugar Co. v.
Nebraska, 73 Nebraska, 57; Const., -Wyoming, Art. I,
§§ 32, 33.
The statute here in controversy takes'property, since it
forbids sale and use, although such sale aid use in no way

WALLS v. MIDLAND CARBON CO.
300.

.307

Argument for Appeilees.

create or contribute to any nuisance or injury to the health,
morals or comfort of anyone. And the sale and use prohibited, under the evidence, is without question the most
profitable sale and use that can be made of the gas, and the
one most beneficial. to the world and to civilization. 2
Kent's Com. 320; Litchfield v. Bond, 186 N. Y. 66; 80;
Buchanan v. Warley, 245 U. S. 60, 74; In re Kelso, 147
California, 609.
The statute "does not alone regu!ate the right of the
reduction to possession of the gas, but when the right is
exercised, when the gas becomes property, takes from it
the attributes of property, the right to dispose of it."
Oklahopna vi Kansas Natural Gas Co., 221 U. S. 229, 254.
So, too, the deprivation of the right to use the factory,
or the imposition of restraints rendering such use impossible, is a taking of property in as real a sense as if the
factory were physically appropriated. Dobbins v. Los
Angeles, 195 U. S. 223; In re Smith, 143 California, 368.
See also: ForsterV. Scott,, 136 N. Y. 577; People v. Otis, 90
N. Y. 48; Pumpelly v. Green Bay Co., 13 Wall. 166;
Kansas City Gas Co. v. Kansas City, 198 Fed. Rep. 500.
Oil is also a fuel, produced and transported under conditions substantially similar to natural gas. It is also an
essential ingredient in printing inks, into the composition
of which eight times as much oil as gas-black enters. The
heating value of oil so used is totally lost. Would it be a
reasonable exercise of police power to declare that oil-,
or oil from certain wells-must not be sold for such use
unless the heat contained in the oil be fully used for domestic or manufacturing purposes?
Wood is a fuel-the oldest and most widely used of
fuels. From wood is made news-print paper. Again the
heat, or fuel value, is lost. Could it be deemed a reason-,
able exercise of police power to forbid the sale of wood to
pulp mills unless the heat contained therein be fully employed for other uses?

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Appellees.

254 U. S.

Ineach instance a fuel is consumed. Its heating value is
lost. A product of great pecuniary and cultural value
results. The manufacture of the product would be impossible except at the sacrifice of the heat. A requirement that it shall be preserved is unreasonable and
destructive.
Manifestly the contour and extent of the field or reservoir constituting the common source of supply are determined by geological conditions, bearing no reference to
the boundaries of incorporated political subdivisions or to
the location of industrial plants. If the fugitive character
of natial gas, and the "co-equal right of all landowners to
draw from a common source of supply" is, as stated in
Ohio Oil Co. v. Indiana, 177 U. S. 190, 203, the very
basis of the power of the legislature to restrain waste, then
argument certainly cannot be needed to show that it may
not lawfully require some to desist from such "waste"
while permitting the"same "waste" to others. The two
propositions are mutually destructive.
"
Still more glaringly is it violated if permission to
"waste" or "rwastefully use" from the common store is,
denied to some and granted to 'others. Yet this is the
precise construction of the law adopted and upheld by the
state officials.
As construed by the state courts, the act involved in
Lindsley v. Natural Carbonic Gas Co., 220 U. S.61, prohibited only the use of pumps or artificial contrivances to
accelerate the natural flow of percolating water, with the
object, not to use the water in connection with the enjoyment of the land, but to extract and vend the gas as merchandise, allowing the water to run to waste. So construed, it was sustained by this court (p. 77).
Even if the analogy between water and natural gas
were complete, the present law is wholly dissimilar.
Further as to arbitrary discrimination, see: Connolly v.Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S.540; Internationalliar-

WALLS v. MIDLAND CARBON CO,
300.

309

Opinion of the Court.

Gdf,Colorado &
vester Co. v. Missouri, 234 U. S. 199, 215;G
Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150; Cotting v. Kansas
City Stock Yards Co., 183 U. S. 79; McFarlandv. American
Sugar Refining Co., 241 U. S. 79; 8. c., 229 Fed. Rep. 284;
Smith v. Texah, 233 U. S. 630.
MR.JuSTIcE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
The complainants are corporations of Delaware and
have their places of business in that State.
The defendants are officers of Wyoming, being respectively, its Attorney General, Prosecuting Officer of Big
Horn County, and the Governor of the State.
It is alleged that Jurisdicti6n of the District Court
depends upon diversity of citizenship, and the Constitution of the United States, the Constitution being violated
by an act of the legislature of the State. Chapter 125'of
the Session Laws of 1919.
The object of the suit is to restrain defendants, and each
of them, from enforcing or attempting to enforce the
legislation.
It is declared by the act, which is attacked, that its
purpose is "the protection and conservation of the supply
of natural gas." The first section is as follows:
"The use, consumption or burning of natural gas taken
or drawn from any natural gas well or wells, or borings
from which natural gas is produced for the products where
such natural gas is burned, consumed or otherwise wasted
without the heat therein contained being fully and actually
applied and utilized for other manufacturing purposes or
domestic purposes is hereby declared to be a wasteful and
extravagant use of natural gas and shall be unlawful when
such gas well or source of supply is located within ten miles
of any incorporated town or industrial plant."
Section 2 prohibits the use, sale or other distribution of

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

natural gas, the product of any well owned, leased or
managed by any person, for the purpose of manufacturing.
or producing carbon or other resultant products from the
burning or consumption of such gas, without the heat
therein being fully and actually utilized for other manufacturing purposes or domestic purposes.: Violations are
made misdemeanors.
The grounds of contention against the act are set forth
in very voluminous pleadings, supplemented by a number
of affidavits. But only a brief summary of them is necessary to present the question involved, which is, stated.
broadly, that the act transcends the police power of the
State, its purpose and effect being not to regulate and
conserve natural gas, but to prohibit its use, and make a
discrimination between owners having equal rights, and
thereby violates Article I, §.10, of the Constitution and
the Fourteenth Amendment thereof.
Prior to the enactment of the statute, the Midland
Company had erected a factory for the manufacture of
carbon black, which factory is located about 1jY miles
from the town of Cowley, Big Horn County, at an expenditure of $375,000. It is equipped for the manufacture of
such carbon black, and can be used for no other purpose,
and there is produced from it approximately 13,000
pounds of that article daily, which is sufficient for the
manufacture of 117,000 pounds of printing ink. From the
gas consumed to make the carbon black, there is first
extracted approximately 1600 gallons per day of highgravity gasoline.
The uses of carbon black are enumerated, and it is
alleged that no form of it possessing the same properties
manuand the wide variety of uses can be commercially
factured from any material or substance other than:
natural gas.
The origin of the industry and the uses of its product are
variously detailed, and it is alleged that the company's

WALLS v. MIDLAND CARBON CO.
300.

311

Opinion of the Court.

factory is so conducted as to permit no waste, that the best
known processes and appliances are employed, and that
the operation of the gasoline absorption plant and the recovery of gasoline from the gas supplied by the wells would
be impossible if the carbon plantshould cease to be operated, for the reason that the gas cannot be sold to other
users in that locality in sufficient quantities to render the
extraction of gasoline therefrom commercially profitable.
The Occidental Oil and Gas Company owns the land
upon which are located the gas wells constituting the
principal source of supply to the plant and carbon factory
of the Midland Company. The Occidental Oil and Gas
Company also' constructed, owns and operates the pipe
line by which the gas is conveyed to the factory, and delivers it to the factory, receiving from the Eastern Fuel
Company, which owns and operates the gasoline extraction plant, a royalty of one-half of the gasoline extracted
therefrom. . The Oil Company also owns mineral leases
covering 1200 acres of proved gas territory within ten
miles of Cowley. Its business is an integral and inseparable part of that of the Midland Carbon Company, and
all of its investments have been made in view of the carbon
business.
In the construction of its pipe line it expended $65,000,
and in the purchase of lands upon which the wells are
located, a sum exceeding $30,000. Other gas lands are
alleged to have been purchased and leased prior to the
enactment of the law.
There are other allegations asserting the use of the gas
and its products, and that such use is not a waste of the
gas. Various ways in which the law violates complainants'
rights under the Constitution of the United States are detailed: that under the guise of regulation the restrictions
of the act are so framed as to abolish, ruin and destroy
complainants' business, while leaving it open to others to
engage in carbon manufacture, without saving the gaso-

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

line; that the penalties imposed by the act are harsh, unreasonable and confiscatory, and that a dispute of its'
legality would impose a penalty of $1,000 for each separate
daily violation of it. Other injuries are alleged.
As already said, affidavits made by representatives of
various trades and industries, displaying the qualities of
carbon black and its uses, are attached to the bill. Other
affidavits express the detriment, in the opinion of the
affiants, of any restriction or regulation of. the production
of it. And others, from asserted experts, exhibit the source
of the gas and the process of manufacture from it of carbon
black, and that, in its manufacture, heat is necessarily
evolved, but that as soon as any attempt is made to transform the heat into any other form of energy, such as light
or mechanical power, an enormous but inevitable loss of
heat results.
An injunction is prayed, interlocutory and permanent,
restraining defendants from -enforcing the act.
Upon the bill, (it is verified) exhibits and affidavits, it
was ordered that the application for interlocutory injunction be heard by three judges and that in the meanwhile a
temporary restraining order be granted upon filing a bond
in the sum of $1,000.
The answer in its admissions, denials, and independent
averments, asserts waste of the gas by complainants' gas
factory and processes, the depletion of the wells and their
product, from which it is estimated that within three years
all of the wells will have been utterly and completely
depleted, and the depletion will relate not only to the wells
furnishing gas for the manufacture of carbon black, but
will likewise reiate to the entire region and vicinity.
And it is alleged that by preventing the use of the gas for
the manufacture of carbon black, the towns of Lovell and
Cowley and all industrial plants therein will be afforded a
supply of gas for all domestic and industrial purposes for
a period of thirty years.

WALLS v. MIDLAND CARBON CO.
300.

Opinion of the Court.

The vice attributed to the act by complainants is denied, and a benefit and virtue asserted for it.
. It is prayed that the bill be dismissed, and the restraining order be dissolved. The answer is verified.
A motion to dissolve the temporary restraining order
was made which was supported by affidavits and opposed
by others.
The affidavits are too long to quote. Those on the part
of defendants represent the interest of the city of Lovell and
other towns, and'the necessity to their industries, if there
are to be any, of the natural gas from the wells with which
this case is concerned, and represent a depletion of the gas
supply by the use made of the gas by complainants. Figures are given. Particulars are stated in one affidavit, and
for a review of what are' deemed the important tests and
elements of judgment of the conditions which existed and
would succeed the present practice, it is said:.
"In conclusion, assuming that the present consumption
of gas from this sand is 15,000,000 cubic feet per day (as I
'have been reliably informed) and that the decrease in
pressure for the last year has been 150 pounds, and knowing that the present pressure is approximately 200 pounds,
it is a simple problem in mathematics to ascertain the
future life of the field. In other words, at the present rate
of decrease in pressure, the field will be exhausted in sixteen months and there will be no pressure to force the gas
out of the sand. On the same basis of reasoning there are
approximately 7,200,000,000 cubic feet left in the sand
and the present consumption is five and a half billion cubic
feet per year."
The court sustained .the application for temporary
injunction.
The question in the case is, as we have said, whether the
legislation of Wyoming is a valid exercise of the police
power of the State, and bmjngs into comparison the limits
of the power as against the asserted rights of property,,

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

-whether the legislation is a legal conservation of the
naturalresources of the State, or an arbitrary interference
with private rights. Contentions of this kind have been
before this court in other cases and their discussions and
decisi'ons have materiality here. We mean, not discussions br -decisions on the police power in the abstract or
generality, 'but discussions and decisions involving conditions and principles pertinent to the present case.
It will be observed that the act under review does not
prohibit the use of natural gas absolutely. It prohibits,
or, to use its words, declares it to be a "wasteful and extravagant use of natural gas," when it is burned or consumed "without the fieat therein contained being fully
and actually applied and utilized for other manufacturing
purposes or domestic purposes." But not even that
unlimitedly, but only when the "gas well or source of
supply is located within ten miles of any incorporated
town or industrial plant." Such is the prohibition upon
the user or consumer. There is a prohbition upon the
owner or lessee of wells within the designated distance from
a town or industrial plant to sell or dispose of the gas except
under the specified conditions "for the purpose of manufacturing or producing carbon or other resultant products."
There are two elements, therefore, to be considered:
(1) The distance of the wells from an incorporated town
or industrial plant; (2) the elment of heat utilization for
manufacturing or domestic purposes. These elements are
the determining ones in the accusations against the law.
The first is the basis of the discrimination charged against
it; the second is the basis of the charge that the law deprives the companies of their pr9perty by the ruin of their
business and capital investments, and impairs the obligations of preexisting contracts.
In Bacon v. Walker, 204 U. S. 311, a statute of Idaho
was considered which made it unlawful, with consequent
liability to damages, "for any person owning or having

WALLS v. MIDLAND CARBON CO.
300.

Opinion of the Court.

charge of [the] sheep to herd the same, or permit them to
be herded on the land or possessory claims of other persons, or to herd the same or permit them to graze within
two miles of the dwelling house of the owner or owners of
said possessory claim." The statute was sustained as a
lawful exercise of the police power of the State against the
.assertion of the right of one citizen to use the public do-.
main as much as another citizen, and that to impose damages upon him for the exercise of the right deprived him of
his property without due process of law, and, besides,
arbitrarily discriminated between sheep grazing and the
grazing of other kinds of stock. We there said in substance
that, the power of regulation existing, the imposition of.
some limit to a right, when its exercise would impinge upon
the equal right of another, was the exercise of legislative
power and that the circumstances which induced it could
not be pronounced illegal "on. surmise or on the barren
letter. of the statute." And we said further, that where
equal rights existed the State has an interest in their
accommodation. Pertinent cases were cited, and the exclusion from grazing within two miles of the possessory
claim of another was decided to be legal, that "the selection of some limit is a legislative power," and that it was
"only against the abuse of the power, if at all, that the.
courts may interpose." The mere distance expressed
nothing.
The case, and those it cites, are authority for the position that a State may consider the relation of rights and
accommodate their coexistence, and, in the interest of the
community, limit one that others may be enjoyed. Of this
Ohio Oil Co. v. Indiana, 177 U. S. 190, is especially inus-trative and pertinent and conducts naturally to the consideration of the second proposition, that is, to the element
of heat utilization.
The suit was by the State and was based upon a statute:
which was directed against and prohibited one having

316

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court..

254 U. S.

possession or control of any natural gas or oil well to permit the flov of gas or oil from any such well to escape into
the open air for a longer period than two days after the gas
or oil had been struck. From the standpoint of the law, to
do so was a waste of gas. A right against the statute was
set: up, based upon the asserted or, implied postulate thai
the owner of the land owned all beneath the surface and all
that could be brought to the surface within the lines of the
land. The postulate was rejected upon the ground of the
nature of the gas, the capability of its flow from place to
place, .the cdmmon right to domestic and industrial use of
it, and the power of the State to regulate and conserve
such right.
The Oil Company contended as owner of the land (it
was the lessee) and producer of the oil, that it had expended many thousands of dollars in purchasing and
equipping machinery for the sole purpose of raising and
producing oil, it not being engaged in producing or transporting natural gas, and that it used the gas as "power,
force and agency" to raise the oil to the surface of the
ground, and that such was "the usual, natural and ordinary method of raising and saving oil in such4 cases."
And further, that no machinery or process of any kind had
been devised by which the oil could be produced and saved
otherwise, and by forbidding it, the company's business
would be destroyed and the State deprived of the use and
profits of the oil which was of vastly more Value than the
gas. And it was asserted that no more gas was permitted
to escape than was consistent with the due operation of the
well with the highest skill. It was hence urged against the
act that it deprived of-property without due process of law
and denied to the OiP Company the equal protection of
the laws. The answer was adjudged by the Supreme
Court of the State not to constitute a defense. The
adjudication was sustained by this court. We said, citing
a case, "possession of the ILnd is not necessarily possession

WALLS v. MIDLAND CARBON CO.
300.

Opinion of the Court.

of the gas," and again, on the authority of cases, "that the
property of the owner of lands in oil and gas is not absolute
until it is actually in his grasp, and brought to the surface. "'
It was decided, however, that before that event occurs,
indeed in prevention of it, the State may interpose its
power to prevent a waste or disproportionate use of either
oil or gas by a particular owner in order to conserve the
equal right of other owners and advance the public interest. And in support of this power of regulation a similarity
between natural gas and other sub-surface minerals was
rejected. "True it is," it was said, "oil and gas, like other
minerals, are situated beneath the surface of the earth, but
except for this one point of similarity, in many. other respects they greatly differ. They have no fixed situs under
a particular portion of the earth's surface within the area
-where they obtain. They have the power, as it were, of
self-transmission." Necessarily, therefore, it was adjudged
that their use by one owner oi the surface affected the use
of other owners, and an excessive use by one diminished
the use by others, and a similarity of other minerals, as we
have seen, was rejected, and the analogy between oil and
gas and animals ferw nature was declared. It was hence
decided that the power of the State "can be manifested for
the purpose of protecting all the collective owners, by
securing a just distribution, to arise from the enjoyment
by them, of their privilege to reduce to possession, and to
reach the like end by preventing waste."
To the contention that oil could not be taken at a profit
by one who made no use of the gas, it-was replied that such
fact went "not to the power to make the regulations, but
to their wisdom." And this can be said of the contention,
in the case at bar, that one element is more valuable than
another, that carbon black is more valuable than the gas
from which it is extracted.
It will be observed that the basic principle of the Indiana statute is the same as the basic principle of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

Wyoming statute, that is, the power of regulation dependent upon the natures of oil and gas, and that the
absolute dominion of the surface of the land is not an
unlimited dominion over them.
The case was cited in Lindsley v. Natural CarbonicGas
Co., 220 U. S. 61, to defeat a suit brought to restrain the
officers of the State of New York from enforcing against
the gas company a.statute which made it unlawful to
pump from wells or otherwise draw by artificial appliances
that class of mineral waters holding in solution carbonic
acid gas, or producing an unnatural flow of such gas "for
the purpose of extracting, collecting, compressing, iiquifying or vending such gas as a commodity otherwise than in
connection with the mineral water and the other mineral
ingredients with which it was associated."
The company alleged that the gas could be lifted to the
surface only by means of pumps or other artificial ap.pliances and that many other landowners in Saratoga
Springs had like wells which were operated in a like way
with a like purpose. The utility of the gas was alleged and
a property right asserted which the statute, it was further
alleged, deprived of in violation of the Constitution "of
the United States.
A demurrer was sustained to the bill; therefore its averments were admitted. The basis of the contention of the
offense of the statute against the Constitution of the
United States explicitly was, that the company, being the
owner of the land owned, had power and authority over
all beneath the land's surface that it could reduce to
possession. This was the same postulate, it will be observed, that was asserted in Ohio Oil Co. v. Indiana. It
was rejected upon the authority of that case. We, however, said, "were the question an open one we still should
solve it in the same way."
May the principle and its .justification be extended to
the Wyoming statute? The statute of Wyoming (we

WA1LLS v. MIDLAND CARBON CO.
300.

Opinion of the Court.

repeat it to have it immediately before our eyes) declares
it to be a "wasteful and. extravagant use of natural gas" to
use, consume or barn it when taken or drawn from any
gas well or wells or borings "for the products where such
natuxal gas is burned, consumed or otherwise wasted
without the heat therein contained being fully and actually applied and utilized for other manufacturing purposes or domestic purposes." The declaration of illegality,
however, only applies when the "gas well or source of
supply is located witlin ten miles of any incorporated
town or industrial plant." Section 2 explicitly mentions
carbon black as within the illegality of the law, and as this
case concerns .its production we may-accept its production
as a test of the companies' case.
Of the range of the utility of carbon black there can be
no controversy and to this fact the companies give an
especial emphasis in their averments, supplementary
affidavits, and argument. The fact, however, is but of
incidental importance. The determininj consideration is
the power of the State over, and its regulation of a property in which others besides the companies may have
rights and in which the State has an interest to adjust and
preserve, natural gas being one of the resources of the
State. And in this consideration it is more important to
consider not for what a particular owner uses the gas, but
the proportion of his use to that of others, or it may be,
the prevention of use by others; and the striking fact is
presented by the companies' averments that by the processes and devices employed by them there is only obtained from each thousand cubic feet of natural gas consumed 14 pounds of carbon black and 2/10 of a gallon of
high-gravity gasoline. To this averment the defendants
add that every thousand cubic feet of gas contains from
33 to 40 pounds of carbon and therefore, "that the inefficiency of the process used by complainants is very high,
ranging only from 2.8% to 4.6%." It is the further asser-

320

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

tion of defendants that the companies are utilizing and
withdrawing from the earth gas at the rate of approximately 10,000,000 cubic feet per day and that the same
can never be replaced or restored.
-To these averments we may add the affidavits. There is
something in them but not enough to reduce the importance of the facts averred. Those on the part of the companies are directed to a great extent to the value,of carbon
black and its use and the detriment or disaster of the
discontinuance or even reduction of its manufacture.
And the explicit assertion is that it is absolutely impossible
to utilize the heat generated as an incident to its manufacture. A comparison'is made with other fuels and the
affidavits are explicit in statement that the requirement
that the heat contained in them must be "fully and
actually applied and utilized" (to use the words of the
Wyoming statute) is not only unreasonable but impossible.
Figures are given not only of gas engines but of oil, air
and steam engines. This is dwelt on at great length and
it is declared that it is abolutely impossible to utilize heat
generated as an incident to the manufacture of carbon
black. And it is said, "If the true test of the waste of gas
or any other fuel is whether or not the heat therein contained is fully utilized, it would follow that practically
every industrial use of fuel must be characterized as wasteful."
There is also testimony from those familiar with the
geological formations, and the production of natural gas in
Wyoming, that there are very extensive deposits underlying ten counties, and that their development has scarcely
more than commenced and that their potential capacity
far exceeds the capacity of the wells now drilled. Further,
that the aggregate capacity of the existing wells exceeds
650,000,000 cubic feet per day, and that this production
could be largely augmented if the demands for natural gas
in the State warranted.

WALLS v. MIDLAND CARBON CO.
300.

Opinion of the Court.

Opposing affidavits set forth the needs of the towns,
present and prospective, and of industries other than
carbon black, and that the wells of the companies are
drilled into the same sand in which the wells of the Lovell
Gas and Electric Company, an industry which furnishes
gas and electricity to the town of Lovell, are drilled. The
sand is a free flowing sand, that is, one in which the gas
has free access from one part of the field to the other,
consequently the gas pressure would be approximately the
same at all the wells drilled into it. With the operation-of
the wells of the companies came a diminution of pressure'
and "if the present consumption of gas continues for
another year, there will not be sufficient gas in this field
in the particular sand in question, to supply even the
domestic uses of the town of Lovell."
And it is affirmed that the plant of the Midland Gas
Company consists of about ninety separate buildings constructed of sheet iron and steel, in such a way that they
can be moved more readily than almost any other character of construction and were evidently designed with
the idea of portability in mind, and at the present rate of
consumption of the gas, they will have to be moved, in
any event, within a year. Corroborating figures of the
supply and consumption are given, and it is said that if the
wells now driven be allowed to flow at their full capacity
they will be entirely exhausted in ninety days. The proof
of this is'said to be that the use of 15,000,000 cubic feet
per day of gas produced within the last eighteen months
has caused a loss of 57% of the available gas in the producing sand. In contrast, it is estimated, that if the gas consumed at the carbon plant was conserved the supply available for domestic and industrial use in the towns of Lovell
and Cowley would last for a period of ten years.
There is'speculation as to other basins of deposits of gas
and its utility for industries, but which cannot be undertaken against the depletion by the production of carbon

OCTOBER TERM, 1920
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

black. The process to make the latter is said to be simple
and is similar to holding a cold plate over an old-fashioned
gas jet. In fact, it is said, the process used by the Midland
Carbon Company is merely an incomplete combustion of
gases in an insufficient amount of air, the flames from the
different jets practically touching cast iron channel plates,
which are suspended over the flames and are moved backward and forward at a very slow rate of speed. The carbon
is scraped off the plates into hoppers and carried to the
packing houses by conveyors. All of this is mechanical.
It is testified (by an engineer of the Bureau of Mines in
the Interior Department who had made a study of the
making of 'carbon black) that the efficiency of the carbon
black industry is very low; that the largest yield of which
affiant had any knowledge did not exceed 1/2 pounds per
1000 cubic feet of natural gas though it is a well known
and chemically ascertained fact that one thousand cubic
feet of natural gas contains :approximately from 33 to 45
pounds of carbon.
The companies replied with'affidavits of opposing
tendency and made comparisons of the money value of
carbon black with the money value of natural gas, the
former being the more valuable. And there is contradiction of the asserted lower pressure of the wells and the
tendency to the depletion of the gas, and assertion that
other forms of industry can well use coal for fuel.
The affidavits (which we have presented necessarily in
barest outline) whether they may be regarded as presenting issues of fact or of judgment, exhibit the conditions
which may have moved the policy and legislation of the
State. Manifestly, conceding a. power to the State of
regulation, a comparison of the value of the industries
and a judgment upon them as affecting the State, was
for it to make. Such comparison may, therefore, be put
aside. It may be, as it is deposed, that 1000 cubic feet of
natural gas converted into gasoline and carbon black may

WALLS v. MIDLAND CARBON CO.
300.

Opinion of the Court.

be sold much higher than can be obtained from the same
amount of gas sold for fuel purposes, but it does not follow
from that fact that the State may not consider, and direct
its legislation by the consideration that (and we take the
averment of the companies) 1000 cubic feet of natural gas
is consumed to produce 14 pounds of carbon black and
about 2/10 of a gallon of gasoline. That it may so consider
depends upon the question whether its statute is within
the principle of the statutes passed on in Ohio Oil Co. v.
Indiana, and Lindsley v. Natural Carbonic Gas Co. By
reverting to these cases it will be immediately observed
Lhat the power of regulation over natural gas is possessed
by a State; and in the first case, (Ohio Oil Co. v. Indiana),
it was exercised to prohibit the employment of the gas as a
means or agency in the production of oil, against an asserted right of property in the ownership of the land
upon which the oil was produced, and, therefore, of the oil
and gas as incidents of such ownership, which could be
used in such manner and quantity as the landowner
might choose.
In the Lindsley Case the power of the State was exerted
to prohibit the owner of the surface from pumping on his
own land, water charged with gas. This was but an exertion, it was said, to preserve from depletion the subterranean supply common to him and other owners, and that
the statute, therefore, was not unconstitutional as depriving owners of their property without due process of law.
Ohio Oil Co. v. Indiana,as we have pointed out, was cited
M a precedent aid its principle applied. The case at bar is,
we think, within that principle, in other words, the power
isexerted to prohibit an extravagant or wasteful or dis'proportionate use of the natural gas of the State.
We have seen that the method of production by natural
gas is like holding a cold plate over a candle, or, as it is expressed by a witness, it can only be produced "by combustion and the impinging of the flame on the metallic sur-

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

face." And there is great disproportion between the gas
and the product, and necessarily there was presented. to the
judgment and policy of-the State a comparison: of utilities
which involved, as well, the preservation of the natural
resources of the State, and the equal participation in them
by the people of the State. And the duration of this
utility was for the consideration of the State, and we do
not think that the State was required by the Constitution
of the United States to stand idly by while these resources
were disproportionately used, or used in such way that
tended to their depletion, having no power of interference.
The cited cases determine otherwise, and that, as the
State of Indiana could prevent the exhaustive use of gas in
the production of oil, and as the State of New York could
prevent the owner of land from using artificial means to
obtain the carbonated waters under his land, the State of
Wyoming has the same power to prevent the use of natural
gas in the production of carbon black, the tendency of
which is (it may be the inevitable effect of which is) the
exhaustion of the supply of natural gas and the consequent
detriment of other uses.
It may be said, however, indeed is said, that the purpose
of the act or its effect is a discrimination between producers
of carbon black, those ten miles from a town or industrial
plant not being within its provisions. We think the classification is justified by the case of Bacon v. Walker, supra,
and indeed, by the principles which determine classification.
'To the contention that the statute is not one of conservation because carbon black factories are permitted if ten
miles distant from a town or industrial plant, the immediate answer is that it is for the State to determine not only
if any conservation be necessary but the degree of it, and
certainly the companies cannot complain if the State has
not exerted its full power.
As we have seen, many affidavits were addressed to the

GILBERT v. MINNESOTA.
300."

Syllabus.

impossibility of complying with the statute, that is, of
utilizing the heat of natural gas to the extent of the words
of the statute. We say to the extent of the words of the
statute because we think the statute must be construed
with reference to the facts of nature and their possibilities,
and that all that was intended by the words employed was
to require a practical and possible use of the heat, as in
other fuels and by the existing instrumentalities, and if
this should be done it was a legal use of the gas-was an
application and utilization of the heat contained in it.
The statute was, only intended to prevent the selection of
a product whose production tended, and according to
some of the affidavits, whose inevitable effect was, to
exhaust the supply of gas in a very little while.
The decree granting the interlocutory injunction is
reversed, and the case remanded to the District Court for
further proceedings in conformity to this opinion.
Reversed.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE; MR. JUSTICE VAN DEvANTE-%and
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS, dissent.

GILBERT v. STATE OF MINNESOTA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
MINNESOTA.
No. 79. Argued November 10, 1920.-Decided December 13, 1920.
1. The law of Minnesota declaring it a misdemeanor for any person to

teach or advocate by any written or printed matter or by oral speech
that citizens of the State should not aid or assist the United States in

prosecuting or carrying on war with the public enemies of the United
States, is valid under the Federal Constitution. P. 327.
2. Such an enactment may be upheld both as a legitimate measure of

