ARNDSTEIN v. McCARTHY.
Opinion of the Court.

ARNDSTEIN v. McCARTHY, UNITED STATES
MARSHAL FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF
NEW YORK.
No. 575. Petition of trustee in bankruptcy for leave to intervene, for
certification of the entire record, and for reargument, submitted November 22, 1920.-Denied December 20, 1920.

The decision of this case, to which the present application relates, is reported in this volume, pages 71 et 8eq.
Mr. Saul S. Myers, Mr. FrancisM. Scott and Mr. Walter
H. Pollak, for the trustee in bankruptcy, in support of
the petition.
Memorandum for the court by MR.JUSTICE McREYNOLDS.

The trustee in bankruptcy has filed an earnest petition
asking that we (a) allow him to intervene, (b) permit
reargument of the appeal, (c) direct that the entire record
be certified to this court, (d) recall the mandate, (e) stay
all proceedings in respect thereto, and (f) grant further
and proper relief.
The court below heard the cause as upon demurrer and
held the petition for habeas corpus insufficient. Disagreeing with the result we concluded that the bankrupt did not
waive his constitutional privilege merely by filing sworn
schedules, that the petition was adequate, and that the

writ should have issued. The mandate only requires the
trial court to accept our decision upon the point of law, 'to
issue the writ and then to proceed as usual. If 'the petition
does not correctly set forth the facts, or if proper reasons
exist for holding the prisoner not shown by the petition
peither our opinion nor mandate prevents them from being
set up in the return and duly considered.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Syllabus.

254 U. S.

Alleged defects in the record appear -to be based upon a
msconception.
Our. conclusion concerning the constitutional question
presented, we think, is so plainly correct that a reargument would be unprofitable.
The petition is denied.
MR. JUSTICE DAY took no

part in the consideration or

lecision of this cause.

MARSHALL, AS RECEIVER OF ALL PACKAGE
GROCERY STORES COMPANY, v. PEOPLE OF
THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 294.

Submitted October 12, 1920.-Decided December 20, 1920.

1. At common law the crown of Great Britain, by virtue of a prerogative right, had priority over all subjects for the payment out of
a debtor's property of all debts due to it, whether the property was
in possession of the debtor or of a third person, or in custodia legis;
an ther priority could be defeated or postponed only through passing
the title to such property, absolutely or by way of 'lien, before the
sovereign sought to enforce his right. P. 382.
2. A like right of priority, based on sovereign prerogative, belongs to
the State of New York, as her highest court has decided, through her
adoption, by her constitutions, of the common law, and attaches to a
debt due the State by a sister-state corporation as a license fee or tax
for the ptivilege of doing business in New York, although no statute
of the State makes the tax a lien or declares its priority. P. 383.
3. The question whether this priority is a prerogative right cr a rule of
administration is a question of local law, the determination of which
by the highest court of the State concludes the federal courts. P. 384.
4. The priority extends to. aQ property of the debtor within the borders

