BRACHT v. SAN ANTONIO &c. RY. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

BRACHT v. SAN ANTONIO & ARANSAS
RAILWAY COMPANY.

PASS

CERTIORARI TO THE KANSAS, CITY COURT OF APPEALS OF

THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
No. 118.

Argued December 16, 1920.-Decided January 3, 1921.

Where, in the contemplation of the parties and by the terms of the
bill of lading, a shipment is purely intrastate and neither the bill nor
any-state regulation gives a right to divert or reship, the action of
the shipper and connecting carrier in forwarding the goods, after
arrival at destination, to a new destination in another State under
a new bill can not impress the original shipment with an interstate character, subject it to the Interstate Commerce Act and
interstate tariffs, and so render the initial carrier liable under
the Carmack Amendment for damage occurring under the new consignment.
200 Mo. App. 655, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. I. N. Watson, for petitioner, submitted. Mr. Hal R.
Lebrecht and Mr.L. A. Laughlin were also on the brief.

Mr. Samuel Herrick, with whom Mr: Robert J. Boyle
was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of
the court.

June 10, 1915, the petitioner delivered to respondent
Railway Company at Ingleside, Texas, a carload of
vegetables consigned to himself at Dallas, Texas, a point
off its lines, where hbeintended to sell them. He accepted
a bill of lading upon the face of which was plainly printed-

"For use only between points within the State of Texas."

490

OCTOBER TERM,, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

It contained no reference 'to a diversion or reshipment;
and the record discloses no rule or regulation by the state
statutes or authorities on that subject.
The car moved over respondent's road to Waco and
then over the M. K. & T. Railway to Dallas, where it
appears to have arrived promptly with contents in good
condition. Upon petitioner's request, made after such
arrival, the M. K. & T. Railway forwarded the car to
Kansas City over its own lines, took up the original bill
of lading and issued an interstate one acknowledging
receipt of the Vegetables at Dallas. When the car reached
Kansas City the contents were in bad condition and
thereupon petitioner sued respondent as the initial carrier
claiming a right to recover damages under the Carmack
Amendment to the Interstate Commerce Act (34 Stat.
584, c. 3591).
The court below held that the provisions in interstate
tarxiffs permitting reconsignment or change of destination
did not apply, that the carrier only agreed to transport
to Dallas and was not liable for damage sustained beyond
that point.
Respondent's contract' appears to have related only to
a movement between points in the same State. It had
no notice or reason to suppose that the freight would
pass beyond' the destination specified.
The original
undertaking was an intrastate transaction, subject, of
course,, to any applicable rules and regulations prescribed
by state authority. The record discloses none; and we
are unable to say as matter of federal law that the tariff
schedules for interstate shipments or the provisions of
the Interstate Commerce Act constituted part of the
agreement. The general principles announced in Gulf,
Colorado & Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. Texas, 204 U. S. 403, 411,
are applicable. Ohio Railroad Commission v. Worthington, 225 U. S., 101; Texas & New Orleans R. R. Co. v.
Sabine Tram Co., 227 U. S. 111, and similar cases are not

UNITED STATES v. STRANG.
Counsel for Parties.

489.

controlling. They involved controversies concerning
carriage between points in the same State which was
really but part of an interstate or foreign movement
reasonably to be anticipated by the contracting parties
-a recognized step towards a destination outside the
State. The distinctions are elucidated in Texas & New
OrleansR. R. Co. v. Sabine Tram,Co. Here neither shipper
nor respondent had in contemplation any movementbeyond the point specified and the contract between
them must be determined from the original bill of lading
and the local laws and regulations.

Affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. STRANG ET AL.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.
No. 206.

Argued December 9, 1920.-Decided January 3, 1921.

1. A person employed as an inspector by the Emergency Fleet Corporation is not an agent of the United States, within the meaning
of ยง 41 of the Criminal Code. P. 491.
2. The Emergency Fleet Corporation, though all of its stock is owned
by the United States, is a separate entity. P. 492.
3. Generally agents of a corporation are not agents for the stockholders and cannot contract for them. Id.
Affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
The Solicitor General, with whom Mr. A. F. Myers,
Special Assistant to the Attorney General, was on the
brief, for the United States.
Mr. John W. Dodge for defendants in error.

