JOURNAL & TRIBUNE CO. i,. UNITED STATES.
570.

581

Syllabus.

the other owners which are without legal sanction. Both
courts rightly condemned these acts and portions of the
injunction are directed against them. But as to. some of
the lands the injunction is open to an objection which the
defendants urge against it, in that it prohibits them from
"in any maner dealing with said lands, or any part
thereof, without the consent of the Secretary of the Interior." This prohibition would prevent them from selling
their unrestricted interests, although that may not have
been intended. It should be confined to the restricted
undivided interests of the Indian owners; and we modify
the decree accordingly.
Subject to the modifications here made the decree is
affirmed.
Decree modified and affirmed.

THE

JOURNAL

AND TRIBUNE

COMPANY

v.

UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 86. Argued November 10, 11, 1920.-Decided January 24, 1921.
1. The amount in controversy in a suit in the Court of Claims, for
the purposes of an appeal to this court (Jud. Code, ยง 242) is determined from the petition as amended, and is the whole amount
claimed without deduction for a partial defense. P. 584.

2. Where shipments of newspapers which their owner supposed were
going by express at lower rates were in fact sent by mail, at higher
but legal postal rates, through oversight of its' agents, held that
the United States was under no implied contract to reimburse it.
P. 585.
53 Ct. Clms. 612, affirmed.

Tim case is stated in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

Mr. Benjamin Carter for appellant.
Mr. AssistantAttorneyGeneralDavis for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.

This suit was brought to recover moneys paid for the
transportation of newspapers in the mails, upon the ground
that they were paid under mistake of fact. The Court of
Claims dismissed the petition. 53 Ct, Clms. 612.
. The facts are as follows: Claimant was engaged
in publishing at Knoxville, Tennessee, a daily morning newspaper having a circulation in eastern Tennessee and adjacent parts of Virginia and North Carolina. It sent out a
considerable part of its daily issue, destined to points on
the United States postal route between Bristol and Chattanooga or on other postal routes connecting therewith, upon
a Southern Railway train leaving Knoxville at 4 a. m.
daily. The mail was dispatched in wagons from the main
post office at Knoxville to the office of a mail transfer
clerk at the railway station, the wagons being operated by
persons having contracts for the purpose with the United
States postal authorities. For claimant's convenience, the
post office authorities consented that its newspapers might
be weighed, for mailing, at the railway station instead of
at the post office; claimant furnishing scales for the purpose. The mail wagons, under an arrangement between
claimant and the contractor, called at claimant's place of
business and carried the newspapers thence to the station.
For this service claimant compensated the contractor or
the driver. While this arrangement was in effect, and in
the fall of the year 1906, claimant concluded to transport
a part of the newspapers by express instead of mail, the
express charges upon large lots being one-half the postal
charge for transporting newspapers as second-class mail.
It notified the express company of this purpose, and requested the express agent to be on the watch. There-

JOURNAL & TRIBUNE CO. v. UNITED STATES.
581.

583

Opinion of the Court.

after it caused certain copies of its newspaper intended for
newsdealers-theretofore sent by mail-to be wrapped in
bundles and labeled "Express or baggage," with directions
for throwing them off the train at the several destinations.
Other copies of the paper, intended for subscribers and
for newsdealers, were placed, properly addressed, in mail
sacks. The method of transporting the papers to the railway station continued as before, those.intended to go by
express and those contained in mail sacks being carried
upon the same wagon and the driver instructed to take
thento the railway station, which he did, depositing
bundles and sacks on the platform where all mail was
deposited. In the fall of 1906, and for about a year thereafter, the express company's office adjoined that of the
mail transfer clerk, the doors of the two opening upon the
same platform. Claimant's representative had notified
the express company's agent of the purpose to send certain
of the papers by express, and pursuant to that notice, until
about October, 1908, a porter from the express agent's
office went to the platform, took the bundles of newspapers
labeled as mentioned, and caused them to be transported
by express. During the same period the United States
mail transfer clerk took the sacks of papers, ascertained
the net weight, and caused them to be transported as
second-class mail matter upon the same train. The net
weight was reported to the postmaster, and he charged
to claimant's account the proper second-class postage
thereon. The system adopted was that claimant made a
deposit with the postmaster to cover postage to accrue,
and renewed the deposit from time to time as it was reduced by charges against it. During the year 1907 the
express company's office was removed to a distance of
about 150 yards from the transfer clerk's office, and about
a year after this the express messenger or porter ceased
calling at the mail platform for the bundles of papers
labeled for transportation by express. Why he did so does

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

not definitely appear. Thereafter and down to March 31,
1913, claimant's newspapers, whether in sacks or in
bundles, were alike treated as mail matter by the United
States mail transfer clerk, who weighed them all and
reported the net weights to the postmaster, and the
bundles and sacks were transported to their respective
destinations as second-class mail matter. The charge
appropriate for such mail matter was regularly made
against claimant's deposit and paid by claimant during
the entire period. In the spring of 1913 claimant's business manager, having his attention called to the fact that
the express bills were small, discovered upon investigation
that the bundles of papers labeled "Express" were being
transported as second-class mail matter; and the present
suit followed. During the period referred to approximately 358,442 pounds of newspapers were transported by
the United States mail that were labeled "Express" and
had been intended by claimant to be transported by express. Claimant paid thereon the regular second-class mail
matter rate of 1 cent per pound, aggregating $3,584.42.
The transportation of the same matter by express would
have cost claimant $1,792.21.
The Government insists that this court is without jurisdiction to entertain the appeal, upon the ground that the
amount in controversy is less than the three thousand
dollars specified in the applicable provision, ยง 242 of the
Judicial Code (Act of March 3, 1911, c. 231, 36 Stat. 1087,
1157). It is said that, viewing the claim in the most favorable light, and assuming a mistake was made entitling
claimant to recover the amount recoverable could not
exceed the difference between what was paid as postage
and what weuld have been paid had the newspapers been
sent by express, that is to say $1,792.21. But, while in its
original petition claimant prayed recovery for only the
latter amount, in an amendment made by leave of the
court it sought a return of the entire $3,584.42, on the

JOURNAL & TRIBUNE-CO. v. UNITED STATES. 585
581.

Opinion of the Court.

ground that there was a failure of consideration and it was
entitled to a return of the whole sum as paid by mistake.
The amount in controversy is to be determined by the
amended rather than the original petition (Washer v.
Bullitt County, 110 U. S. 558, 561-562); and since there is
nothing in the nature of the case to prevent a recovery of
the entire amount, were olaimant's view of the law sustained, the amount claimed is the amount in controversy
within the meaning of the jurisdictional act, notwithstanding there may be a defense to a part that would not
extend to the entire claim. Barry v. Edmunds, 116 U. S.
550, 560-561; Schunk v. Moline, etc., Co., 147 U. S.500,
504-505; Vance v. W. A. Vandercook Co. (No. P), 170
U. S. 468, 472; Smithers v. Smith, 204 U. S. 632, 642-643.
Upon tie merits, we concur in the opinion of the Court
of Claims that there is no legal basis for a recovery. The
money was not paid under any Auch mistake as to render it
inequitable for the United Statel to retain it. The bundles
of newspapers actually were transported as mail by the
Government, claimant being charged by the postmaster
the amount fixed by law for the service rendered, and
paying it without protest. No error is shown to have been
made in the weights or in the rate charged. So far as
any "mistake" appears from the findings it. was that of
claimant's agents in causing or permitting the papers to go
by mail instead of by express as claimant intended. There
is no*finding aitributing negligence or other fault to the
mail transfer clerk; but if there were such and claimant's
loss were attributable, to it, this would not form a ground
for recovery, since the United States has not consented to
be sued in the Court of Claims for the totts of its officers
or agents. Bigby v. United States, 188 U. S.400, 404-407;
Hijo v. United States, 194 U. S.315, 323; Tempel v. United
States, 248 U. S.121, 129; Ball EngineeringCo. v. White &
Co., 250 U. S.46, 57.
Judgment affirmed.

