UNITED STATES v. WHEELER.
280.

.281

Syllabus.

ing under patents from the State of Texas, and not included in the river bed lanad as in said order defined.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that except as herein above

granted the motion of said General Oil Company .for the
return of lands, filed November 15, 1920, be, and it is
hereby, denied.

UNITED STATES v. WHEELER ET AL.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF ARIZONA.
No. 68. Argued April 28, 1920.-Decided December 13, 1920.
1. -In all the States, from the beginning down to the establishment
of the Articles of Confederation, the citizens possessed the right, inherent in citizens of all free governments, peacefully to dwell within
the limits of their respective States, to move at will from place to
place therein, and to have free ingress thereto and egress therefrom.
A consequent authority resided in the States to forbid and punish
violations of this right. P. 293.
2. Uniformity of this right was secured by the Articles of Confederation, not by lodging power in Congress to deal with the subject,
but by subjecting the continued state power to the limitation that it
should not be used to discriminate, Art. IV providing that the free
inhabitants of each State, with certain exceptions, should be entitled to all the privileges and immunities of free citizens in the
several States, and that the people of each State should have free
ingress and regress to and from any other State. P. 294.
3. The Constitution, by Art. IV, § 2, plainly intended to preserve
and enforce this limitation imposed upon the several States by Art.
IV of the Articles of Confederation, and in so doing'necessarily
assumed that the States possessed the authority to protect the right
of free residence, ingress and regress as a part of their reserved power.
Id.
4. The Constitution does not guarantee ibis right against wrongful
interference by individuals, but only against discriminatory action
by States. P. 297. CrandaU v. Nevada, 6 Wall. 35i distinguished.

282

"OCTOBER TRM,. 190O
guent for the United Statesw

251 U.-&

5. A conspiracy to dq~ive eitisens of the Untedt 1 fAei rigMt
to remain in a partioular State, by seizing thg, ail 'dep.,n
them to another-State, is not an offense under §19 L the Cr

Code.
254 Fed. Rep. 611, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the ovinion.
Mr. W. C. Heftmn, with whom ivir. Assistant 'Arne
General Stewdrt was op the briefs, for the United States:.
'Our claim, and ou; entire claim, is that the right of free
inigress and egress is secured, not by any express provision
of the Constitution (except in so far as the Fourteenth
Amendment enlarges the scope of the term "citizen of the
United States"), but impliedly by the creation of citizenship of the United States, as contradistinguished from
purely state citizenship, which the Constitution as certainly and immediately effected as it did the Union itself.
It was "the people of the United States" who ordained
and established tle Constitution, and it was they who,
upon its ordination and establishment. became citizens of
the United States. McCulloch v.'Marjland,4 Wheat. 316,
404, 404.
Prior to the Constitution the rights of such persons
(if any) would be governed by international or municipallaw. They $ould not differ materially in this respect from
the rights of persons who were expelled at the present day
from one of the United States into Canada or Mexico. In
so far as the political bodies themselves were' concerned,
correspondthe only action possible would be diplomatic
ence, followed (it may be) by reprisals or even by war.
In so far as the individuals injured were concerned, there.
might be, either under international or under municipal
law, prosecutions in the State ab quo, or, perhaps in the
State ad quem, if it bould be said that .the crime was consummated in the latter.
What would be the situation after the Constitution?

UNITED, STATES v. :WHEELER.
281:

Argument for the United Statew.

For, in so far as greater or additional rights'appear at the
later period, such greater or additional rights must necessarily be rights granted and hence secured by the Constitution.
As to the political bodies, the right to diplomatic correspondence, reprisals, and war was expressly taken away by.
the Constitution, Art. I, § 10, and there arose therefrom
a new and different remedial right, viz., the right to sue in
the federal courts either the political body or. the individuals responsible for the damage. South Carolina v.
Georgia, 93 U. S. 4, 9; Missouri v. Illinois, 180 U..S. 208,.
241; a. c., 200 U. S. 496, 518-520; Kansas v. Colorado,
185 U. S. 125, 146, 147; 8. c., 206 U. S. 46, 96, 97; Pennsylvania v. Wheeling Bridge Co., 13 How. 518; Georgia v.
Tennessee Copper Co., 206 U. S. 230, 237.
The question is, Did the Constitution change the situation, as respects the individuals injured, in any respect?
Did it give them greater or additional rights? Or did it.
leave them as to their rights in the same situation in which
it found them? Whereas before they were merely citizens!
of one particular State, being aliens in a sense to all others,,
they now became in addition citizens of the United States.
This was implied in the very formation of the Federal
Union. A new allegiance was created with a new corro,
sponding duty in the liege of protection to the subjects.,
They came within the "peace of the United States." In re
Neagle, 135 U. S. 1, 69. Their'prog ws therefore from one
State to another (or into the Territc ies), their egress from
one, their ingress into another, while it might find them inplaces where their state citizenship would not give them all
the rights it did at their domiciles, would never find them
in any place where the all-prevailing quality of citizenship
of the United States would not accompany them, with all
the rights, substantive and remedial,* which the term
denotes.
It is important to emphasize the fact (as we claim)

284

OCOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for the United States.

254 U. S.

that federal citizenship, with all its main privileges and
immunities, came from the very fact of the institution of

the new government under the Constitution, and not from
the Fourteenth Amendment. Of this there can be no
possible doubt.
It was early assumed and held, that the Constitution
impliedly created a citizenship of the United States, and it
followed necessarily that it also impliedly secured the
requisite privileges and immunities of such a status.
1 Stat. 103; Talbot v. Jansen, 3 DalI. 133, 136, 153, 154;
State v. Hunt,' 2 Hill, 1, 218-220; Hepburn v. ElIzey,
2 Cranch, 445; New Orleans v. Winter, 1 Wheat. 91;
American Insurance Co. v. Canter, 1 Pet. 511, 542; Gassies
v. Ballon, 6 Pet. 761; Lynch v. Clarke, 1 Sandf. Ch. Rep.
583, 640, 641, 642; Prentiss v. Brennan, 2 Blatchf. 162,
164, 165; Minor v. Happersett, 21 Wall. 162, 165-167.
The right of a citizen of one of the States to free ingress
and regress to or from another State (a right somewhat
similar to the one set up in the indictment in the case at
bar), is secured in some sense by § 2 of Art. IV of the
Constitution. Corfield v. Coryell, 4 Wash. C. C. 371;
-Paulv. Virginia, 8 Wall. 168, 180; Ward v. Maryland, 12
Wall. 418, 430; Slaughter-House Cases, 16 Wall. 36, 75.
We, 'however, expressly disclaim any reliance upon this
constitutional provision. It was held in the SlaughterHouse Cases, supra, that the rights referred to in § 2 of
Art. IV are the fundamental rights of citizenship, as such,
and not the rights peculiarly conferred upon the citizens of
the United States first created by the Constitution. The
rights of ingress and regress are impliedly included in § 2
of Art. IV merely because included in the fundamental
rights to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. These
rights a citizen of a State is entitled to as such. The outland citizen acquires this right under the Constitution
solely because the domestic citizen has it, and only to the
same extent. He is entitled only to be free from discrim-

UNITED STATES v. WHEELER.
281.

.285

Argument for the United States.

ination by the State, without "reasonable ground for the
diversity of treatment." Travis v. Yale & Toume Mfg. Co.,
252 U. S. 60. His only remedy, therefore, under § 2 of
Art. IV for actions such as are complained of in the case at
'bar would be by prosecution in the state courts, if the
laws of the State provided such a remedy. It is possible
that Congress might provide a remedy, if the State discriminated against him, in regard to such outrages, on
account of his outland citizenship; but Congress (so far as
we are aware) has never done so. At any rate § 19,
Crim. Code, does not do so. It is therefore not enough in
the case at bar to show that the right set up in the indictment is a fundamental right common to all citizens of
civilized States everywhere. It must be shown in addition

that it is a right peculiar to the complex, federal citizenship
which is at the basis of the "indissoluble Union of indestructible States" created by the Constitution of the
United States.
In this term "citizen of the United States," are included
two fundamental concepts, bound together and interacting, viz., the concept of "the United States" as a corporate
entity, exercising full and paramount sovereignty within
its constitutional powers over all the persons within its
territorial limits, and the concept of the several States as
a collective body, retaining all their sovereign powers and
activities over the persons within their territorial limits
except in so far as those powers have been granted to the
collective aggregate. Langdell, 12 Harvard Lsw Rev. 365,
367-370; Tennessee v. Davis, 100 U. S. 257, 263; Ex parte
Sebold, 100 U. S. 371, 394; Hoke v. United States, 227 U. S.
308, 321, 322.
The existence of the States prevents a citizen of the
United States from deriving, as such, a right under the
Constitution to territorial mobility within the limits of any
paiticular State. To that extent he is dependent upon the
laws and agencies of the several States. The right, how-

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Afgum~nt for the 'United States.

254 IT.

.

ev'er, "t6 move freely,: suo intuiu, from one State into
anotli& is, an entirely different matter and brings into the
problem the concept of the Union. It is a right necessarily
-inherent in federal citizenship and secured, therefore,
by the Constitution. Unless this be true, no Union was
in fact established in 1789, because :no less than this
can be properly attributed to citizenship of the United
States.
The injury done by the defendants in this case has a
double aspect, one toward the individuals deported and
the other toward the State into which they were deported.
By their deportation the individuals became, or might
become, a charge upon the State of New Mexico, a dis,turbance of its peace, or an offense to its own state policy.
According to the decisions of this court, and. especially
Kansas v. Colorado, and Missouri v. Illinois, supra,
-the offended State was secured by the Constitution a
righit to sue the offending State in the federal courts, and
.to have applied there, not the law of the offending State,
-but a general or international law. Is not this a strong
-reason for believing that the Constitution also secured a
right. to the individuals, not as citizens of Arizona but as
citizens of the United States, to have their cases determined in a federal court by federal law?
* In every case in which this court has applied § 19
Crim. Code, the claim that the offense was only assault,
.murder, kidnapping, etc., could have been, and in some of
them. evidently was made. Yet this court upheld the
federal jurisdiction because the real purpose of the conpiracy .wasInot to murder, assault,' etc., but to prevent
voting, to prevent informing .of crime, to prevent .egress
froni a State . United States v. Waddell, 112 U. S. 76,.80;
Buchanan v. United States, 233 Fed. Rep. 257.
I The Fourteenth Amendment has had no effect , upon the
question presented in this case, except incidentally in so
far as it. has, perhaps, enlarged and constitutionally fixed

UNITED STATES v. WHEELER.
.281.

Arguiient for the united Stat.

the status, of a citizen of the United States. That status
was fully recognized before the Amendment. See the
discussion, including the decision by Mr. Justice Johnson
:in Ex parte Eckstein, and an opinion by Attorney General
Wirt, relative to acts of South Carolina affecting the
ingress and egress of free negroes. (Reports Committees,
27th Cong., 3d sess., House Rep. 80, pp. 15, 27, 35; Mass.
Legal, Docs., 1845, Senate No. 31.). See also Prigg v.
Pennsylvania, 16 Pet. 539; Passenger Cases, 7 How. 283,
465-467 492; Crandal v. Nevada, 6 Wall. 35, 43-45.
Crandall v. Nevada has been referred to by' this court in
later cases with full approval, and undoubtedly represents
the settled law. It is on principle decisive of the case at
bar. Slaughter-House Cases, 16 Wall. 36, 79, 80; Twining
v. New Jersey, 211 U. S. 78, 97, 98; Cooley, Principles of
Constitutional Law, pp. 245, 246.
The point that in Crandall v. Nevada, the action complained of was by the State itself, whereas in the case at
bar it is by individuals, does' not distinguish that case
from this one. If the right be one secured by the Constitution, Congress may protect it against action by individuals, as well as against Action by the State, if it deem the
former mode appropriate to the end. This is decided
in Prigg v. Pennsylvania,supra. The Fourteenth Amendment expressly banned state action, but it did not limit the
general and original power of Congress to protect rights
secured by the Constitution in such manner as it thought
most effective. This is proved by the case of Crandall v.
Nevada itself, which arose prior to the Fourteenth Amendment and can therefore derive no assistance from its provisions. The fact that only state action was before the court
in that -case proves nothing as to the question whether a
right of a' citizen is secured under the Constitftion only
against state action. Indeed, the fallacy of the argument
is sh~wfiby all the decisions which have held § 19, Crim.
Code, constitutional. Particular reference may be made

'288

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for the United States.

254 U. S.

to the statement of this. court in United States v. Reese,

92 U. S. 214, 217.
As for the authorities after the Fourteenth Amendment, [Slaughter-HouseCases, 16 Wall. 36, where the court
stated that a citizen of the United States has a right
specially secured under the Amendment to reside in a
State for the purpose of acquiring citizenship thereina right clearly violated in the case at bar-Justice
Bradley's dissenting opinion, 16 Wall. 112, 113; United
States v. Reese, 92 U. S.214; James v. Bowman, 190 U. S.
127; United States v. Cruikshank, 92 U. S.542, 552, 553;
Strauder v. West Virginia,100 U. S.303; Ex parte Virginia,
100 U. S.339; Ex parte Siebold, 100 U. S.371; Ex parte
Yarbrough, 110 U. S. 651, 663-66Q; Wiley v. Sinkler,
179 U. S.58; Swafford v. Templeton, 185 U. S.487; United
States v. Mosley, 238 U. S. 383, 386; United States v.
O'Toole, 243 U. S. 476, 485-489; United States v. Bathgate,
246 U. S.220; United States v. Harris, 106 U. S.629;
Hodges v. United States, 203 U. S.1, 14; United States v.
Powell, 212 U. S.564; compare United States v. Shipp,
203 U. S. 563; Logan v. United States, 144 U. S. 263,

293-295; United States v. Waddell, 112 U. S.76, 80; In re
Quarles, 158 U. S.532, 536; Motes v. United States, 178
U. S.458, 462, 463; Baldwin v. Franks. 120 U. S.678;
United States v. Patrick, 54 Fed. 4ep. 338, 347,] we submit that the decisions of this court on the subject of
the rights secured by the Constitution to a citizen of the
United States show not only that these rulings do not in
any manner or to any extent limit or qualify the principles
made the basis of the judgment in Crandall v. Nevada,
supra, but that they reinforce that decision by the uniform
and consistent opinion of this court that § 19, Crim. Code,
constitutionally covers every right of a citizen of the
United States, as such, whether it arise from some express
provision of the Constitution, or whether it be implied in
the very organization and healthy operations of the Na-

UNITED STATES v. WHEELER.
281.

Argument for Defendants in Errok.

tional Government which substituted for a mere league of
States and a single state citizenship a real, vital Union
based upon a citizenship of the United States.
Mr. Charles E. Hughes, with whom Mr. E. E. Ellinwood,
Mr. John Mason Ross and Mr. Clifton Mathews were on
the brief, for defendants in error:
There are two classes of rights enjoyed by citizens of the
United States, as such, (a) rights by which one is entitled
,to protection merely against action by or on behalf of
States where that action is in conflict with the provisions
of the Federal Constitution, and (b) rights by which one is
entitled to protection against the action of individuals.
Section 19, Crim. Code, is not concerned with the former,
but exclusively with the latter.
This distinction between federal rights which protect
the citizen simply against state action, and federal rights
which protect the citizen against the action of individuals,
abundantly established by decisions of this court (United
States v. Cruikshank, 92 U. S. 542, 554, 555; Virginia v.
Rives, 100 U. S. 313, 318; United States v. Harris, 106
U. S. 629, 639; Civil Rights Cases, 109 U. S. 3, 11-13;
James v. Bowman, 190 U. S. 127; Barney v. City of New
York, 193 U. S. 430; Hodges v. United States, 203 U. S.
1, 14-16) has been disregarded in this prosecution. See
also Karem v. United States, 121 Fed. Rep. 250; United
States v. Moore, 129 Fed. Rep. 630; United States v. Powell,
151 Fed. Rep. 648, afid.' 212 U. S. 564.
. It thus appears that it is not enough for the Government to establish that there is a federal right, in order to
invoke § 19, if it appears, as we submit it does clearly
appear in the present case, that the right is of that class
which connotes protection only against state action.
The decisions may be searched in vain for any authoritative precedent applying § 19, unless there is a right to
protection as against individual action and not simply as

.'OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

254 U. S.

against state action. Ex parte Yarbrough, 110 U. S. 651;
Guinn.v. United States, 238 U. S. 347; United States v.
Mosley, 238 U. S. 383; United States v. Butler, Fed. Cas.
No. 14,700; United States v. Crosby, Fed. Cas. No. 14,893;
Felix v. United States, 186 Fed. Rep. 685; United States v.
Stone, 188 Fed. Rep. 836; Aczel v.. United States, 232 Fed.
Rep. 652; United States' v.,Waddell, 112 U. S. 76; Haynes
v. United States, 101. Fed. Rep. 817; Buchanan v. United
States, 233 Fed. Rep. 257; Logan v. United States, 144 U. S.
263; In re Quarles, 158 U. S. 532; Motes v. United States,
178 U. S. 458; United States v. Lancaster, 44 Fed. Rep.
885, 896; United States v. Patrick, 54 Fed. Rep. 338;
Davis v. United States, 107 Fed. Rep. 753; United States v.
Morris, 125 Fed. Rep. 322; Smith v. United States, 157
Fed. Rep. 721.
As examples of prosecutions which have failed because
of the prosecutor's inability to point out, to the satisfaction
of the court, the constitutional provision securing the
right said to have been conspired against, see: United
States v. Cruikshank, 92 U. S. 542; Hodges v. United States,
203 U. S., 1; United States v. Gradwell, 243 U. S. 476;
Karem v. United States, 121 Fed. Rep. 250; McKenna v.
United States,427 Fed. Rep. 88; United States v.,Eberhart,
127 Fed. Rep. 254; United States v., Moore, 129 Fed. Rep.
630; United States v. Powel, 151 Fed. Rep. 648, affd. 212
U. S. 564; United States v. Bathgate, 246 U. S. 220.
The right of a citizen of the United States to reside and
work within the bounds of the United States wherever he
may choose is a fundamental right pertaining to his individual liberty. Like other fundamental rights of life, liberty,
and property, so far as interference therewith on the part
oftindividuals is concerned, it is a right which the Constitution of the United States leaves to the protection of the
several States having jurisdiction. So far as there is a
right pertaining to federal citizenship to have free ingress
or egress with respect to the several States, the right is

UNITED STATES v. WHEELER.
281.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

essentially one of protection against the action of the
States themselves and of those acting under their authority. Slaughter-House Cases, 16 Wall. 36, 76; Corfield v.
Coryell, 4 Wash. C. C. 371.
The privileges and immunities clause of Art. IV, §2,
does not confer a right of protection against the acts of
individuals, but is aimed at the hostile action of the States.
It is this clause which gives the citizens of the several
States "the right of free ingress into other States, and
egress from them." Paul v. Virginia, 8 Wall. 168, 180;
Slaughter-House Cases, 16 Wall. 36, 75; Corfield v. Coryell,
4 Wash. C. C. 371, 381; Ward v. Maryland, 12 Wall. 418,
430. It confers no right whatever with respect to the
action of individuals, but only- affords protection as
against the hostile action of the States and their agencies.
Slaughter-House Cases, supra, 76, 77; United States v.
Harris, 106 U. S. 629, 643. See also, Hodges v. United
States, 203 U. S. 1, 15.
The provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment are also
concerned with action by the States and do not confer a
federal right to protection as against the action of individuals, in the absence of action.by a State. Slaughter-House
Cases, supra, 77; Civil Rights Cases, supra, 11; United
States v. Cruikshank, 92 U. S. 542, 555. See also Virginia
v. Rives, supra, and United States v. Harris,supra.
If it be assumed that, apart from § 2 of Art. IV and the
Fourteenth Amendment, there is an iriherent federal right
of a citizen of the United States freely to cross the boundary of a State, it is of the essence of that right that it is one
which exists only with respect to action by the States and
their agencies. So far as mere individual liberty 'is concerned, in the absence of action by the States, the State:
boundary has no significance.
In dealing with the offense of kidnapping or of false
imprisonment or. of libel or of assault or of murder, where
the State and its agencies are not the actors, the state

292

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

boundary is of no significance, and personal right is protected, as it always has been protected, under the laws of
the State having jurisdiction. We find nothing in Crandall v. Nevada, 6 Wall. 35, which in any way contravenes
this well-settled distinction.
MR. CHiEF JusicE WHITE delivered the opinion of

the court.
The case is here under the Criminal Appeals Act to
directly review a judgment quashing an indictment against
the 25 persons who are defendants in error. The indictment contained four counts, but as the fourth is now
abandoned by the Government we need not consider it.
The first count charged the accused with conspiring, in
violation of § 19 of the Criminal Code, to injure, oppress,
threaten, or intimidate 221 named persons, alleged to be
citizens of the United States residing in Arizona, of rights
or privileges secured to them by the Constitution or laws
of the United States, that is to say, the right and privilege
pertaining to citizens of said State peacefully to reside and
remain therein and to be immune from unlawful deportation from that State to another. And the overt acts
alleged were: The arming of the conspirators: the seizure
and holding of the persons named until by means of a railway train procured for that purpose they were forcibly
transported into New Mexico and in that State'released
under threat of death or great bodily harm should they
ever return to the State of Arizona.
The second count was the same as the first except that
only 25 of the persons alleged in the first count to havebeen injured were named, and they were stated to be
citizens of the United States residing in but not citizens of
the State of Arizona.
The third count was also identical with the first except
that it embraced only 196 of the injured persons named in

UNITED STATES v. WHEELER.
281.

293

Opinion of the Court.

the first count and one additional person not therein
named, all being declared to be citizens of the United
States and of the State of Arizona residing in that State.
The court quashed the indictment on the ground that no
power had been delegated by the Constitution to the
United States to forbid and punish the wrongful acts
complained of, as the right to do so was exclusively within
the authority reserved by that instrument to the several
States. As the entire case will be disposed of by testing
the accuracy of this view we come immediately to consider that subject.
In argument the asserted error in the conclusion is
based, not upon the direct result of any particular provision of the Constitution, but upon implications arising
from that instrument as a whole, the conditions existing at
the time of its adoption, and the consequences inevitably
produced from the creation by it of the Government of the
United States. A wide field of inquiry common to all the
contentions is thus opened. In order, therefore, to afford a
common basis by which td measure the correctness of the
various implications insisted upon, we state under separate
headings doctrines which are applicable to all the contentions and which are in reason so well founded and so conclusively sustained by authority as to be indisputable.
(a) In all the States from the beginning down to the
adoption of the Articles of Confederation the citizens
thereof possessed the fundamental right, inherent in citizens of all free governments, peacefully to dwell within
the limits of their respective States, to move at will from
place to place therein, and to have free ingress thereto and
egress therefrom, with a consequent authority in the
States to forbid and punish violations of this fundamental right. Corfteldv. Coryell, 4 Wash. C. C. 371, 380381; Slaughter-House Cases, 16 Wall. 36,76.
(b) Whether, in disregard of the principles of comity,
any ofthe States recognized in their own citizens rights on

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

this subject which they refused to grant to citizens of other
States, we need not consider, in view of the provision of the
Articles of Confederation on the subject. By that provision uniformity was secured, not by lodging power in
Congress to deal with the subject, but, while reserving in
the several States the authority which they had theretofore enjoyed, yet subjecting such authority to a limitation
inhibiting the power from being used to discriminate.
The text of Article IV which provides for this subject is
as follows:
"The better to secure and perpetuate mutual friendship
and intercourse among the people of the different States
in this Union, the free inhabitants of each of these States,
paupers, vagabonds and fugitives from justice excepted,
shall be entitled to all privileges and immunities of free
citizens in the several States; and the people of each State
shall have free ingress and regress to and from any other
State, ..
Thus, while power remained in the several States, the
boundaries demarking them became, at least for the purpose of the enjoyment of the right here in question, negligible, and the frontiers of the Confederation became the
measure of the equal right secured to the inhabitants of
each and all the States.
(c) That the Constitution plainly intended to preserve
and enforce the linitation as to discrimination imposed
upon the States by Article IV of the Articles of Confederation, and thus necessarily assumed the continued possession by the States of the reserved power to deal with free
residence, ingress and egress, cannot be denied for the
following reasons: (1) Because the text of Article IV, § 2,
of the Constitution, makes manifest that it was drawn
.with reference to the corresponding clause of the Articles
of Confederation and was intended to perpetuate its
limitations; and (2) because that view has been so conclusively settled as to leave no room for controversy. Thus

UNITED STATES v. WHEELER.
281.

295

Opinion of the Court.

in Paul v. Virginia, 8 Wall. 168; 180, considering the operation and effect of -Article IV,'§ 2, of the Constitution,
it was said:
"It was undoubtedly the object of the clause in question
to place the citizens of each State upon the same footing
with, citizens of other States, so far as the advantages
resulting from citizenship in those States are concerned.
It relieves them from the disabilities of alienage in other
States; it inhibits discriminating legislation against them
by other States; it gives them the right of free ingress into
other States, and egress from them; it insures to them
in other States the same freedom possessed by the citizens
of those States in. the acquisition and enjoyment of prop-,
erty and in the pursut of happiness; and it secures to them
in other States the equal protection of their laws. It has
been justly said that no provision in the Constitution has
tended so strongly to constitute the citizens of the United
States one people as this.
"Indeed, without somie provision of the kind removing
from the citizens of each State the disabilities of alienage in
the other States, and giving them equality of privileges
with citizens of those'States, the Republic would have
constituted little more than a league of States; it would
not have constituted the Union which now exists."
Again, in Ward v. Maryland, 12 Wall. 418, 430, upon the
same subject, the court declared:
"Attempt will not be made 'to define the words 'privileges and immunities,' or to specify the rights which they
are intended to secure and protect, beyond what may be
,necessary to the decision of the case before the court.
Beyond doubt those words are words of very comprehensive meaning, but it will be sufficient to say that the clause
plainly and unmistakably secures and protects the right of
a citizen of one State to pass into any other State of the
Union for the purpose of engaging in'lawful commerce,
trade, or business without molestation; to acquire per:

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.

Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

sonal property; to take and hold real estate; to maintain
actions in the courts of the State; and to be exempt from
any higher taxes or excises than are imposed by the State
upon its own citizens."
In the Slaughter-House Cases, 16 Wall. 36, 75-76, the
court, after reciting both the provisions of Article IV of
the Articles of Confederation and Article IV, § 2, of the
Constitution, said:
"There can be but little question that the purpose of
both these provisions is the same, and that the privileges
and immunities intended are the same in each. In the
article of the Confederation we have some of these
specifically mentioned, and enough perhaps to give some
general idea of the class of civil rights meant by the
phrase.
"Fortunately we are not without judicial construction
of this clause of the Constitution. The first and the leading case on the subject is that of Corfieldv. Coryell, decided
by Mr. Justice Washington in the Circuit Court for the
District of Pennsylvania in 1823.
"'The inquiry,' he says 'is, what are the privileges and
immunities of citizens of the several States? We feel no
hesitation in confining these expressions to those privileges
and immunities which are fundamental; which belong of
right to the citizens of all free governments, and which
have at all times been enjoyed by citizens of the several
States which compose this Union, from the time of their
becoming free, independent, and sovereign. What these
fundamental principles are, it would be more tedious than
difficult to enumerate. They may all, however, be comprehended under the following general heads: protection
by the government, with the right to acquire and possess
property of every kind, and to pursue and obtain happiness
and safety, subject, nevertheless, to such restraints as the
government may prescribe for the general good of the
whole.'

UNITED STATES v. WHEELER.

281.

Opinion of the Court.

"This definition of the privileges and immunities of
citizens of the States is adopted in the main by this court
in the recent case of Ward v. The State of Maryland, while
it declines to undertake an authoritative definition beyond
what was necessary to that decision. The description,
when taken to include others not named, but which are of
the same general character, embraces nearly every civil
right for the establishment and protection of which organized government is instituted. They are, in the language of Judge Washington, those rights which are fundamental. Throughout his opinion, they are spoken of as
rights belonging to the individual as a citizen of a State.
They are so spoken of in the constitutional provision which
he was construing. And they have always been held to be
the class of rights which the State governments were
created to establish and secure."
The controlling influence of the opinion in the SlaughterHouse Cases, as well as that of Mr. Justice Washington in
Corfield v. Coryell, stands out in bolder relief when it is
observed that in the latter case, following the statement of
the general principles contained in the passage quoted in
the Slaughter-House Cases, there is found, by way of illustration, an enumeration of particular rights declared to be
clearly embraced by the general principles, one of which is
described as, "The right of a citizen of one state to pass
through, or reside in any other state, for purposes of trade,
agriculture, professional pursuits, or otherwise."
Applying these doctrines, let us come to test the soundness of the implications from the Constitution relied upon
to establish the absence of all state authority to deal with
the individual wrongs complained of, and the possession
by the Federal Government of power for that purpose;
and, as pertinent thereto, to refer briefly to the authorities
which it is assumed sustain those implications.
Undoubtedly the right of citizens of the States to reside
peacefully in, and to have free ingress into and egress from,

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

the several States had, prior to the Confederation, a twofold aspect: (1) as possessed in their oWn States and (2) as
enjoyed in virtue of the comity of other States.' But
although the Constitution fused these distinct rights into
one by providing that one State should not -deny to the
citizens of other States rights given to its own citizens,
no basis is afforded for contendiig that a wrongful prevention by an individual of the enjoyment by a citizen of one
State in another of rights possessed in that State by its
own citizens was a violation of a right afforded by the
Constitution. This is the necessary result of Article IV,
§ 2, which reserves to the several States authority over the
subject, limited by the restriction against state discriminatory action, hence excluding federal authority except
where invoked to enforce the limitation, which is not here
the case; a conclusion expressly sustained by the ruling in
United States v. Harris, 106 U. S. 629, 645, to the effect
that the second section of Article IV, like the Fourteenth
Amendment, is directed alone against state action. And
this was but a summary of what had been previously
pointed out in the Slaughter-House Cases, 16 Wall. 36,
where -in dealing with the privileges and immunities
embraced by Article IV, § 2, of the Constitution, it was
observed (p. 77):
"It would be the vainest show of learning to attempt to
prove by citations of authority, that up to the adoption of
the recent amendments, no claim or pretence was set up
that those rights depended on the Federal government for
their existence or protection, beyond the very few express
limitations which the Federal Constitution imposed upon
the States-such, for instance, as the prohibition against
ex post facto laws, bills of attainder, and laws impairing
the obligation of contracts. But with the exception of
these and a few other restrictions, the entire domain of the
privileges and immunities of citizens of the States, as above
defined, lay within the constitutional aidlegislative power

UNITED STATES v. WHEELER.
281.:

Opinion of the Court.

of the States, and without that of the Federal government."
Nor is the situation changed by assuming that as a
State has the power, by depriving its own citizens of the
right to reside peacefully therein and to free ingress
thereto and egress therefrom, it may; without violating"the
prohibitions of Article IV against discrimination, apply a
like rule to citizens of other. States, and hence engender,
outside of Article IV, a federal' right. This must be so
since the proposition assumes, that a State could, withost
violating the fundamental limitations of. the. Constitution
other than those of Article IV, § 2, enact .legislatiou incompatible with its existence as a free government and
destructive of the fundamental rights of its citizens; and
furthermore, because the premise upon which the proposition rests is state action and the existence of federal power
to determine the repugnancy of such -action to the Constitution, matters which, not being here involved, are not
disputed.
This leads us furthermore to point out that the case of
Crandallv. Nevada, 6 Wall. 35, so much relied upon in the
argument, is inapplicable, not only because it involved the
validity of state action, but because the state statute considered in that case was held to directly burden the performance by the United States of its governmental functions and also to limit rights of the citizens growing out of
such functions; and hence it also follows that the observation made in Twining v. New Jersey, 211 U. S. 78, 97,
to the effect that it had been held in the CrandallCase that
the privilege of passing from State toState is an attribute
of national citizenship, may here be put out of view as
"inapposite.
With the object of confining our decision to the case
before us, we say that nothing we have stated must be
considered as implying a want of power in the United
States to restrain acts which, although involving ingress or

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Syllabus.

254 U. S.

egress into or from a State, have for their direct and necessary effect an interference with the performance of duties
which it is incumbent upon the United States to discharge,
as illustrated in the CrandallCase, supra.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTCE CIxKE dissents.

WALLS, ATTORNEY GENERAL -OF THE STATE
OF WYOMING, ET AL. v. MIDLAND CARBON
COMPANY ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF WYOMING.

No. 219.

Argued October 13, 1920.'-Decided December 13, 1920.

1. As applied to the facts of this case, the statute of Wyoming which
prohibits, as wasteful, the burning and consumption of natural
gas for its products without fully -and actually applying and utilizing its heat for other manufacturing or domestic purposes, and
which forbids owners or lessees of gas wells to sell or dispose of such
gas for the manufacture of carbon or other resultant products in the
making of which its heat is not so utilized for other manufacturing or
domestic purposes, and which limits the prohibition to cases where
the gas wells or sources of supply are within ten miles of any incorporated town or industrial plant, and penalizes infractions as misdemeanors,-is a legitimate exercise of the police power, and is not
constitutionally objectionable as taking property without due process or as an unreasonable or arbitrary discrimination. Pp. 313 el seq.
2. So held, where it was objected that enforcement of the statute
would destroy a heavy investment in a plant for the manufacture of
carbon black, a substance of great utility, the value of which, with
that of the gasoline also produced in the process, was claimed to
exceed any other value obtainable from a like quantity of gas, and
the manufacture of which, it was claimed, would be impracticable
if the heat from the gas must be utilized as the statute prescribed. Id.
3. The statute seeks merely to prevent the selection of products the

