228

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

NICCHIA v. PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF NEW
YORK.
ERROR TO THE COUNTY COURT OF KINGS COUNTY, STATE
OF NEW YORK.
No. 74.

Argued November 17, 1920.M-Decided December 6, 1920.

It is within the police power of a State to require payment of license
fees by the owners of dogs in cities, under penalty of fine. P. 230.
If, in exercising this power, the State sees fit to provide that the
licenses shall be issued and the fees collected by a' private corporation created by the State for the purpose of aiding in the enforcement of laws enacted to prevent cruelty to animals, and that the
fees so collected shall be applied by such corporation in payment
of its expenses fairly incurred and as ju3t compensation for valuable
service rendered in such law enforcement, the owners of dogs are
not thereby deprived of property or liberty in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 231.
224 N. Y. 637, affirmed.

THE Case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. George P. Foulk, with whom Mr. Joseph Nicchia

was on the brief, opened for plaintiff in error. The court
declined to hear further argument.
Mr. Harry E. Lewis, Mr. Harry G. Anderson, Mr. J.
Mayhew Wainwright and Mr. William N. Dykman for

defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Plaintiff in error owned two dogs which she*harbored
within New York City without having obtained the license
required by c. 115, Laws of New York 1894, as amended
by c. 412, Laws 1895, and c. 495, Laws 1902. She was
charged with violating the statute. on October 11, 1916,

NICCHIA v. NEW YORK.
228.

Opinion of the Court.

found guilty in the City Magistrates' Court, Brooklyn, and
required to pay a fine. The Court of Appeals affirmed the
judgment without opinion.
Chapter 115 as amended provides:
"Sec. 1. Every person who owns or harbors one or more
dogs within the corporate limits of any city having a
population of over eight hundred thousand, shall procure
a yearly license and pay.the sum of two dollars for each
dog.
"
"
"See. 8. The American Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals is hereby empowered and authorized
to carry out the provisions of this act, and the said society
is further authorized to issue the licenses and renewals,
and to collect the fees therefor, as herein prescribed; and
the fees so collected shall be applied by said society in
defraying the cost of carrying out the provisions of this act
and maintaining a shelter for lost, strayed or homeless
animals; and any fees so collected and not required in
carrying out the provisions of this act shall be retained by
the said society as compensation for enforcing the provisions of title sixteen of the penal code and such other
statutes of the state as relate to the humane work in which
the said society is engaged."
"See. 9. Any person or persons, who shall hinder or
molest or interfere with any officer or agent of said society
in the performance of any duty enjoined by this act, or
who shall use a license tag on a dog for which it was not
issued, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. Any
person who owns or harbors a dog without complying with
the provisions of this act shall be deemed guilty of disorderly conduct, and upon conviction thereof before
any magistrate shall be fined for such offense any sum not
exceeding ten dollars, and in default of payment of such
fine may be committed to prison by such magistrate until
the same be paid, but such imprisonment shall not exceed
ten days."

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

The validity of the act was questioned upon the ground
that it violates the Fourteenth Amendment, ยง 1, by "depriving a citizen of his liberty without due process of law,
to-wit, the liberty of owning and harboring a dog without
procuring a license from and paying a fee therefor to the
Society, a private corporation." In Fox v. Mohawk &
H. 1.Humane Society (1901), 165 N. Y. 517, the Court of
Appeals declaredI a statute essentially the same as c. 115
before the amendment of 1902 invalid under the state
constitution because it appropriated public funds for the
use of a private corporation and also because it conferred
an exclusive privilege. But the court repudiated the suggestion that the statute deprived dog owners of property
without due process or delegated governmental power to a
private corporation. Thereafter (1902) the legislature
amended c. 115 with the evident purpose of meeting
objections pointed out in the Fox Case. Thus amended,
the law has been upheld. Our only concern is with the
suggested federal question.
The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals was incorporated by c. 469, Laws of New York
1866. "The purpose of the corporation was to enforce the
laws enacted to prevent cruelty to animals." Davis v.
American Society, 75 N. Y. 362, 366. It has long been
recognized by the legislature as a valuable and efficient
aid toward the enforcement of those laws. New York
Penal Laws, Article XVI, ยง 196. The payment of public
funds to a similar corporation for assistance in enforcing
penal statutes has been declared unobjectionable. People
ex rel. State Board of Charitiesv. The New York Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Children, 161 N. Y. 233, 239,
250.
Property in dogs is of an imperfect or qualified nature
and they may be subjected to peculiar and drastic police
regulations by the State without depriving their owners of
any federal right. Sentell v. New Orleans & Carrollton

13OTHWELL v. UNITED STATES.
228.

Syllabus.

R. R. Co., 166 U. S. 698. Fox v. Mohawk & H. R. Humane
Society, supra. It power to require those who wish to
keep dogs to secure licenses from and pay fees to a public
officer is also clear. And when the State ifi the reasonable
conduct of its own affairs chooses to entrust the work
incident to such licenses and collection of fees to a corporation created by it for the express purpose of aiding in law
enforcement, and in good faith appropriates the funds so
collected for payment of expenses fairly incurred and just
compensation for the valuable services rendered, there is
no infringement of any right guaranteed to the individual
by the Federal Constitution. Such action does not
amount to the taking of one man's property and giving it
to another, nor does it deprive dog owners of liberty
without due process of law.
The judgment below must be
Affirmed.

BOTHWELL ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLALMS.
No. 78.

Argued November 9, 1920.-Decided December 6, 1920.

The contract implied from a taking by the Government is a contract
to pay for the property actually taken. P. 232.

Where construction of a Government dam flooded private land, destroyed the owner's hay there stored and forced him to remove and

sell his cattle, held, assuming an implied obligation to pay for the
hay, there was none to pay the loss due to forced sale of the cattle
and destruction of business. Id.
To review a judgment of the Court of Claims, the Government must
appeal; it cannot attack it on the claimant's appeal. P. 233.
54 Ct. Clms. 203, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

