SEABOARD AIR LINE RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
51.

57

Syllabus.

ing murder, will not be allowed to control the conduct of
a marshal of the United States acting under and in pursuance of the laws of the United States. In re Neagle,
135 U. S. 1.
It seems to us that the immunity of the instruments of
the United States from state control in the performance of
their duties extends to a requirement that they desist from
performance until they satisfy a state officer upon examination that they are competent for a necessary part of
them and pay a fee for permission to go on. Such a reuirement does not merely touch the Government servants
remotely by a general rule of conduct; it lays hold of them
in their specific attempt to obey orders and requires
qualifications in addition to those that the Government
has pronounced sufficient. It is the duty of the Department to employ persons competent for their work and that
duty it must be presumed has been performed. Keim v.
United States,. 177 U. S. 290, 293.
Judgment reversed.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY and MR.
dissent.

JU3TICE MCREYNOLDS

SEABOARD AIR LINE RAILWAY COMPANY
AL. v. UNITED STATES ET AL.

,T

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA.

No. 27.

Argued October 8, 11, 1920.-Decided No-ember 8, 1920.

A discriminatiou between shippers, in charges for transportation,
otherwise violative of § 2 of the Act to Regulate Commerce, cannot be'
justified by the exigencies of competition between carriers. P. 62.
Wight v. United States, 167 U. S. '512.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Counsel for Parties.

254 U. S.

In a case of alleged discrimination, findings of fact made by the Interstate Commerce Commission as to the likeness of contemporary
transportation services. rendered by carriers to different shippers
and as to the substantial similarity of the circumstances and conditions in whi-ll they were rendered, cannot be disturbed by the courts,
where the action of the Commission is neither arbitrary nor in excess
of its authority. P. 62.
Each of certain railroads, in transporting carload freight to and from
Richmond, made a practice of absorbing the charges for switching
between its line and industries on the lines of the other railroads in
that city, if the freight moved over its line to or from points served
also by the railroads over which it must be switched in Richmond, but
refused to absorb such switching charges where this switching service
was to be performed by a non-competitive railroad. Held: (1) That a
ruling of the Interstate Commerce Commission finding the practice
discriminatory between shippers and unlawful under § 2 of the
Commerce Act, and requiring the carriers to abstain from it and to
maintain and apply uniform regulations and practices for the absorption of such switching charges and to collect no higher charges from
shippers or receivers of such freight at Richmond than they contemporaneously collected from any other shipper or receiver of such
freight there for a like service under substantially similar circumstances and conditions, was not arbitrary or beyond the authority
of the Commission; (2) that the order was not too vague and uncertain to be enforced. P. 63.
249 Fed. Rep. 368, affirmed.
THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. ClaudianB. Northrop and Mr. Frank W. Gwathmey

for appellants.
Mr. Blackburn Esterline, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, with whom The Solicitor General was on the
brief, for the United States.
Mr. Charles W. Needham, with whom Mr. P. J. Farrell
was on the brief, for the Interstate Commerce Commission., -

SEABOARD AIR LINE RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
57.

59

Opinion of the Court.
MR. JusTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

In this case a petition was filed in the District Covqrt of
the United States for the Eastern District of Virginia to
enjoin an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission
concerning the absorption of switching charges on the lines
of the Seaboard Air Line Railway Company, the Seaboard
Air Line Railway, Southern Railway Company, and
Atlantic Coast. Line Railway Company within the switching limits of these roads as established at Richmond,
Virginia.
The Commission's order was made upon a petition of
the Richmond Chamber of Commerce averring that the
practice of the railroads was discriminatory and unlawful
and violative of § 2 of the Act to Regulate Commerce.
From the facts found by the Commission it appears that
the appellant railroad companies bring freight from the
south to Richmond, Virginia, where the same is delivered
to industries in the switching limits of that city. If the
freight is received at a point served by any two or more of
the carriers, the switching charge is absorbed if the freight
be delivered on the line of either. But if the delivery is to
an industry served only by a non-competitive carrier the
switching charge is not absorbed. The Commission illustrated the point by an example: "Oxford, N. C., is a point
reached both by the Southern and the Seaboard, but not
by the Chesapea~ke & Ohio. Norlina, N. C., is a local point
on the Seaboard. Assume that industries A, B, and C
[referring to a diagram] on the Seaboard, the Southern,
and- the Chesapeake & Ohio, respectively, are *similarly
located with regard to the interchange tracks of the
three carriers at Richmond. On traffic from Oxford to
industry B on the Southern, the Seaboard will absorb the
Southern's switching charges. But on traffic from Oxford
to industry C, on the Chesapeake & Ohio, the Seaboard
refuses to absorb the Chesapeake &'Ohio's switching

0OCTOBER

TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U..S.-

charges. On traffic from and to Norlina, a local point,
however, the Seaboard refuses to absorb all switching
charges whatsoever to any off-line industry."
The order complained of directed the three carriers to
cease and desist on or before August 1, 1917, and thereafter
to abstain, from absorbing switching charges on certain
interstate carload freight at Richmond, Virginia, while
refusing to absorb such charges on like carload shipments
for a like and contemporaneous service under substantially
similar circumstances and conditions, such practices having been found in a supplemental report to be unjustly
discriminatory and unlawful within § 2 of the Act to
Regulate Commerce; and "-to establish, on or before
August 1, 1917, . . . and thereafter to maintain and
apply uniform regulations and practices for the absorption
of charges for the switching of interstate carload freight at
Richmond, Va., and to collect no higher rates or charges
from shippers and receivers of such carload freight at
Richmond, Va., than they contemporaneously collect from
any other shipper or receiver of such carload freight at
Richmond, Va., for a like and contemporaneous service
under substantially similar circumstances and conditions."
44 1. C. C. 455.
The District Court denied the application for an injunction, and ordered that the petition be dismissed. 249
Fed. Rep. 368.
The contention of the appellants is that the carriage
is not a like and contemporaneous service in the transportation of a like kind of traffic under substantially similar
circumstances and conditions.
Section 2 of the Act to Regulate Commerce provides:
"That if any common carrier subject to the provisions of
this act shall, directly or indirectly, by any special rate,
rebate, drawback, or other device, charge, demand, collect,
or. receive from any person or persons a greater or less
compensation for any service rendered, or to be rendered,

SEABOARD AIR LINE RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
57.

61

Opinion of the Court.

in the transportation of passengers or property, subject to
the provisions of this act, than it charges, demands,
collects, or receives from any other person or persons for
doing for him or them a like and contemporaneous service
in the transportation of a like kind of traffic under substantially similar circumstances and conditions, such common carrier shall be deemed guilty of unjust discrimination,
which is hereby prohibited and declared to be unlawful."
(24 Stat. 379.)
Upon this controversy the Commission in its report said:
"Complainant insists that when the line-haul carrier
reaches the common point and competes for the traffic to
or from Richmond proper, the absorption of the switching
charges should not be confined to that traffic for which the
switching line competes for the entire haul. That is, if the
Seaboard absorbs the switching charges for the shipper
on the terminal tracks of the Southern, it should also
absorb the switching charges for the shipper on the terminal tracks of the Chesapeake & Ohio. Unless this is
done, complainant contends that the two shippers are not
upon an equality, since the Seaboard pays for a delivery
service to shippers on the terminal tracks of the Southern
and declines to pay for a similar delivery service to shippers
on the terminal tracks of the Chesapeake & Ohio. . .
"Section 2 is primarily directed against discrimination
between shippers located in the same community. It is
aimed to put all shippers within a switching district upon a
substantial equality. It provides that where a carrier
receives from any person a greater compensation for any
service rendered in the transportation of passengers or
property than it receives from any other person for doing
for him a 'like and contemporaneous service in the transportation of a like kind of traffic under substantially
similar circumstances and conditions, such common carrier
shall be deemed guilty of unjust discrimination,' a discrimination which is prohibited and declared to be unlaw-

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

ful. Under this section it is settled that the competition
of rival carriers as such does not constitute substantially
dissimilar circumstances to justify a difference in treatment."
We are of opinion that the Commission was correct in
regarding the service in question as a like and contemporary service rendered under substantially similar circumstances and conditions, and amply sustained as matter of
law in Wight v. United States, 167 U. S. 512, and Interstate
Commerce Commission v. Alabama Midland Ry. Co., 168
U. S. 144. The principle established in these cases is that
the statute aims to establish equality of rights among
shippers for carriage under substantially similar circumstances and conditions, and thdt the exigencies of competition do not justify discrimination against shippers for
substantially like services.
Moreover the determination of questions of fact is by
law imposed upon the Commission, a body created by
statute for the consideration of this and like matters. The
findings of fact by the Commission upon such questions
can be disturbed by judicial decree only in cases where
their action is arbitrary or transcends the legitimate
bounds of their authority. Interstate Commerce Commission v. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co., 227 U. S. 88;
Pre-Cooling Case, 232 U. S. 199; Los Angeles Switching
Case, 234 U. S. 294, 311, 312, and cases cited; Pennsylvania Company v. United States, 236 U. S. 351, 361.
The Commission did not hold that switching charges
must be always the same. But it did hold that they must
be alike where the service was rendered under substantially similar circumstances and conditions. The Commission's report says:
"We do not consider that the carriers must absorb the
switching charges indiscriminately to all industries within
the switching limits of Richmond if they choose to absorb
the switching charges to any one industry off their rails.

SEA-BOARD AIR LINE RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
57.

63

Opinion of the Court.

The illegality herein found to exist is the receiving of a
greater compensation for one service than for a like service
under substantially similar circumstances and conditions.
To take a concrete example and referring again to the diagram. Suppose industry C were 5 miles distant from
the interchange tracks of the Seaboard, while industry B
were only 2 miles distant. Suppose the Chesapeake &
Ohio's switching charge amounted to $5, while that of the
Southern was $2. If the Seaboard absorbed the Southern's
$2 switching charge on traffic to industry B, we do not
consider that it must absorb the entire $5 switching charge
of the Chesapeake & Ohio on traffic to industry C, but only
to the extent to which the service is similar. In other
words, it would probably be necessary for the Seaboard
to absorb $2 of the $5 charge of the Chesapeake & Ohio."
The practice condemned by the Commission, as its report
and order show, was that of absorbing switching charges
only when the line-haul carrier competes with the switching
line; and refusing to absorb such charges when the switching line does not compete with the line-haul carrier; this
the Commission held was discrimination within the meaning of § 2 of the Act to Regulate Commerce. We find no
occasion to disturb this ruling as arbitrary in character or
beyond the authority of the Commission.
We find no merit in the contention that the order of the
Commission was too vague and uncertain to be enforced.

A firmed.

