GALVESTON &c. RY. CO. v. WOODBURY.

357

Opinion of the Court.

CALVESTON, HARRISBURG & SAN ANTONIO
RAILWAY COMPANY v. WOODBURY ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS, EIGHTH
SUPREME JUDICIAL DISTRICT, OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.
No. 100. Submitted November 15, L)20.--Decided Decem ber 13, 1920.
1. The declaration of the Act to Regulate Commerce (ยง 1) that it shall
apply to any common carrier engaged in the transportation of persons or property from any place in the United States to an adjacent
foreign country,contemplates its application also to the transportation
by such a carrier from the adjacent foreign country into the United
State* since the test of the application of the act is the field of the
carrier's operation and not the direction ofthe movement. P. 359.
2. Whei6 a passenger traveling from Canada to Texas and return without any express stipulation as to the liability of the carrier for loss of
baggage, through the fault of the carrier lost her trunk in Texas on
the journey out, held, that the amount of her recovery was limited
under the Carmack Amendment by the carrier's published tariffs
filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission. Id.
3. The right of a carrier, under the Carmack Amendment, to limit by
tariff the amount of its liability for the baggage of a passenger, was
not altered by the Act of March 4, 1915, known as the Cummins
Amendment, as amended August 9, 1916. Id.
209 S.W. Rep. 432, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

'Mr. T. J. Beall for petitioner.
Mr. Rufus B. Daniel for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the

court.
On March 14, 1917, Mrs. Woodbury took the Galveston, Harrisburg & San Antonio Railway at San Antonio,

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S

Texas, for El Paso, Texas, and checked her trunk, which
she took with her. It was lost and she sued the company
in a state district court for the value of trunk and contents,
which the jury found to be $500. Mrs. Woodbury was
traveling on a coupon ticket purchased at Timmins,
Ontario, from a Canadian railroad, entitling her to travel
over it and connecting lines, from Timmins to El Paso and
return, apparently with stop-over privileges. When the
trunk was lost she was on her journey out. She was not
told when she purchased her ticket or when she checked
her trunk that there was any limitation upon the amount
of the carrier's liability. It did not appear whether the
ticket purchased contained notice of any such limitation,
nor did it appear what was the law of Canada in this
respect. The company insisted that Mrs. Woodbury was
on an interstate journey; and that under the Act to Regulate Commerce, February 4, 1887, c. 104, 24 Stat. 379, as
amended, it was not liable for more than $100; since it had
duly filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission and
published a tariff limiting liability to that amount unless
the passenger declared a higher value and paid excess
charges, which Mrs. Woodbury had not done. She insisted that her transportation was not subject to the Act to
Regulate Commerce, because it began in a foreign country;
and that the liability was governed by the law of Canada,
which should in the absence of evidence be assumed to be
like the law of Texas, the forum; and that by the law of
Texas the limitation of liability was invalid. The trial
court held that she was entitled to recover only $100, and
entered judgment for that amount. -This judgment was
reversed by the Court of Civil Appeals, which entered
judgment for Mrs. Woodbury in the sum of $500. 209
S. W. Rep. 432. The case came here on writ of certiorari,
250 U. S. 637. The only question before us is the amount
of damages recoverable.
If Mrs. Woodbury's journey had started in New York

GALVESTON &c. RY. CO. v. WOODBURY.
357.

359

Opinion of the Court.

instead of across the border in Canada, the provision in the
published tariff would clearly have limited the liability of
the carrier to $100. For her journey would have been
interstate although the particular stage of it on which the
trunk was lost lay wholly within the State of Texas. Compare Texas & New Orleans R. R. Co. v. Sabine Tram Co.,
227 U. S. 111. And the Carmack Amendment under which
carriers may limit liability by published tariff applies to
the baggage of a passenger carried in interstate commerce,
Boston & Maine R. R. Co. v. Hooker, 233 U. S. 97; although
it does not deal with liability for personal injuries suffered
by the passenger. Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Ry. Co.
v. Maucher, 248 U. S. 359. The subsequent legislation, the
Cummins Amendment, Act of March 4, 1915, c. 176, 38
Stat. 1196, as amended by the Act of August 9 ; 1916,
c. 301, 39 Stat. 441, has not altered the rule regarding
liability for baggage.
But counsel for Mrs. Woodbury insists that solely because her journey originated in Canada the provisions of
the Act to Regulate Commerce do not apply. The contention is that ยง 1 of the Act of 1887 does not apply to the
transportation of passengers from a foreign country to a
point in the United States. To this there are two answers.
The first is that the transportation here in question is not
that of a passenger but of property. Boston & Maine R. R.
Co. v. Hooker, supra. The second is that the act does
apply to the transportation of both passengers and property from an adjacent foreign country, such as Canada.
Section 1 declares that the act applies to "any common
carrier . . . engaged in the transportation of passengers. or property . . . from any place in the United
States to an adjacent foreign country." A carrier engaged
in transportation by rail to an adjacent foreign country is,
at least ordinarily, engaged in transportation also from
that country to the United States. The test of the application of the act is not the direction of the movement, but

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

the nature of the transportation as determined by the field
of the carrier's operation. This is the construction placed
upon the act by the Interstate Commerce Commission.
International Paper Co. v. Delaware & Hudson Co., 33.
I. C. C. 270, 273, citing Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Inter-.
state Commerce Commission, 162 U. S. 197. It is in harmony with that placed upon the words of ยง 1 of the Harter.
Act, February 13, 1893, c. 105, 27 Stat. 445, "any vessel
transporting. merchandise or property from or between
ports of the United States and foreign ports," which in
Knott v. Botany Mills, 179 U. S. 69, 75, were construed to
include vessels bringing cargoes from foreign ports to the
United States. There is a later clause in ยง 1 which deals
specifically with the transportation of property to or from
foreign countries; but cases arising under that clause are
not applicable here. That clause applies where the foreign
country is not adjacent to the United States. The cases
which hold that the act does not govern shipments from a
foreign country in bond through the United States to
another place in a foreign country, whether adjacent or
not, are also not in point. Compare. United States Vi
Philadelphia & Reading Ry. Co., 188 Fed. Rep. 484; In
the Matter of Bills of Lading, 52 I. C. C. 671, 726-729;
Canales v. Galveston, Harrisburg& San Antonio Ry. Co.,
37 I. C. C. 573.
Since the transportation lere. in question was subject to
the Act to Regulate Commerce, both carrier and passenger were bound by the provisions of the published tariffs.
As these limited the regovery for baggage carried to $100,
in the absence of a declaration of higher value and the
payment of an excess charge, and as no such declaration
was made and excess charge paid, that sum only was
recoverable.
Reversed.

