UNITED STATES v. STRANG.
Counsel for Parties.

489.

controlling. They involved controversies concerning
carriage between points in the same State which was
really but part of an interstate or foreign movement
reasonably to be anticipated by the contracting parties
-a recognized step towards a destination outside the
State. The distinctions are elucidated in Texas & New
OrleansR. R. Co. v. Sabine Tram,Co. Here neither shipper
nor respondent had in contemplation any movementbeyond the point specified and the contract between
them must be determined from the original bill of lading
and the local laws and regulations.

Affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. STRANG ET AL.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.
No. 206.

Argued December 9, 1920.-Decided January 3, 1921.

1. A person employed as an inspector by the Emergency Fleet Corporation is not an agent of the United States, within the meaning
of § 41 of the Criminal Code. P. 491.
2. The Emergency Fleet Corporation, though all of its stock is owned
by the United States, is a separate entity. P. 492.
3. Generally agents of a corporation are not agents for the stockholders and cannot contract for them. Id.
Affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
The Solicitor General, with whom Mr. A. F. Myers,
Special Assistant to the Attorney General, was on the
brief, for the United States.
Mr. John W. Dodge for defendants in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of
the court.
The ultimate question for determination is whether
the employment of defendant Strang as an inspector by
the United States Shipping Board Emergency Fleet Corporation, without more, made him an agent of the Government within the meaning of § 41, Criminal Code.
"Sec. 41. No officer or agent of any corporation,
joint stock company, or association, and no member or
agent of any firm, or person directly or indirectly interested in the pecuniary profits or contracts of such corporation, joint stock company, association, or firm, shall
be employed or shall act as an officer or agent of the
United States for the transaction of business with such
corporation, joint stock company, association, or firm.
Whoever shall violate the provision of this section shall be
fined not more than two thousand dollars and imprisoned
not more than -two years."
Holding that this employment did not suffice to create
the relation allegea, the trial court sustained a demurrer
to the indictment. It contains four counts, three of
which charge that Strang unlawfully acted as agent of
the United States in transacting business with the Duval
Ship Outfitting Company, a co-partnership of which
he was a member, in that while an employee of the Fleet
Corporation as an inspector he signed and executed
(February, 1919) three separate orders to the Outfitting
Company for repairs and alterations on the steamship
Lone Star. The other defendants are charged with aiding
and abetting him. The trial court and counsel here have
treated the fourth count as charging all the defendants
with conspiracy to commit the offenses set forth in the
three preceding counts. United States v. Colgate & Co.,
250 U. S. 300.
Counsel for the Government maintain that the Fleet

UNITED STATES v. STRANG.
491.

493

Opinion of the Court.

Corporation is an agency or instrumentality of the United
States formed only as an arm for executing purely governmental powers and duties vested by Congress in the
President and by him delegated to it; that the acts of
the Corporation within its delegated authority are the
acts of the United States; that therefore in placing orders
with the Duval Company in behalf of the Fleet Corporation while performing the duties as inspector Strang
necessarily acted as agent of the United States.
The demurrer was properly sustained.
As authorized by thp Act of September 7, 1916, c. 451,
39 Stai. 728, the United States Shipping Board caused
the Fleet Corporation to be. organized (April 16, 1917)
under laws of the District of Columbia with $50,000,000
capital stock, all owned by the United States, and it became an operating agency of that Board.. Later, the
President directed that the Corporation should have and
exercise a specified portion of the power and authority
in respect of ships granted to him by the Act of June 15,
1917, c. 29, and he likewise authorized the Shipping
Board to exercise through it another portion of such
power and authority. See The Lake Monroe, 250 U. S.
246, 252. Te Corporation was controlled and managed
by its own officers, and appointed its own servants and
agents who became directly responsible to it. Notwithstanding all its stock was owned by the United States
it must be regarded as a separate entity. Its inspectors
were not appointed by the President, nor by any officer
designated by Congress; they were, subject to removal
by the Corporation only and could contract only for it.
In such circumstances we think they were not agents
of the United States within the true intendment of § 41.
Generally agents of a corporation are not agents of the
stockholders and cannot contract for the latter. Apparently this was .one reason why Congress authorized
organization of the Fleet Corporation. Bank of the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Counsel for Appellant.

254 U. S.

States v. Planters' Bank of Georgia, 9 Wheat. 904, 907, 908;
Bank of Kentucky v. Wister, 2 Pet. 318; Briscoe v. Bank
of Kentucky, 11 Pet. 257; Salas v. United States, 234 Fed.
Rep. 842. The view of Congress is further indicated by
the provision in § 7, Appropriation Act of October 6, 1917,
c. 79, 40 Stat. 345, 384,-" Provided, 'That the United
States Shipping Board Emergency Fleet Corporation
shall be considered a Government establishment for the
purposes of this section." Also, by the Act of October 23,
1918, 'c. 194, 40 Stat. 1015, which amends § 35, Criminal
.Code, and renders it criminal to defraud or conspire to
defraud a corporation in which the United States owns
stock.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE dissents.

MANGAN,

ADMINISTRATOR OF
UNITED STATES.

PILLOW,

v.

APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 112.

Argued December 10, 1920.-Decided January 3, 1921.

To establish a claim, under Jud. Code, § 162, to the proceeds of property seized by the Government under the Abandoned Property Act
of March 12, 1863, the claimant must prove his ownership at the
time of seizure. P. 496.
54 Ct. Clms. 207, affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Chas. F. Consaul, with whom Mr. John S. Blair
and Ida M. Moyers were on the brief, for appellant.

