13OTHWELL v. UNITED STATES.
228.

Syllabus.

R. R. Co., 166 U. S. 698. Fox v. Mohawk & H. R. Humane
Society, supra. It power to require those who wish to
keep dogs to secure licenses from and pay fees to a public
officer is also clear. And when the State ifi the reasonable
conduct of its own affairs chooses to entrust the work
incident to such licenses and collection of fees to a corporation created by it for the express purpose of aiding in law
enforcement, and in good faith appropriates the funds so
collected for payment of expenses fairly incurred and just
compensation for the valuable services rendered, there is
no infringement of any right guaranteed to the individual
by the Federal Constitution. Such action does not
amount to the taking of one man's property and giving it
to another, nor does it deprive dog owners of liberty
without due process of law.
The judgment below must be
Affirmed.

BOTHWELL ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLALMS.
No. 78.

Argued November 9, 1920.-Decided December 6, 1920.

The contract implied from a taking by the Government is a contract
to pay for the property actually taken. P. 232.

Where construction of a Government dam flooded private land, destroyed the owner's hay there stored and forced him to remove and

sell his cattle, held, assuming an implied obligation to pay for the
hay, there was none to pay the loss due to forced sale of the cattle
and destruction of business. Id.
To review a judgment of the Court of Claims, the Government must
appeal; it cannot attack it on the claimant's appeal. P. 233.
54 Ct. Clms. 203, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

Mr. Charles H. Merillat for appellants.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Davis for the United
States.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the

court.
Appellants owned and utilized in their'business of stock
raising a large tract of land lying in Sweetwater Valley,
Wyoming. In June, 1909, much hay was stored upon the
land and a thousand head of cattle were there confined.
Under the Reclamation Act of June 17, 1902, c. 1093, ยง 7,
32 Stat. 389, the United States constructed the Pathfinder
Dam. This arrested the flood waters and caused inundation of appellants' lands. The hay was destroyed and it
became necessary to remove the animals and sell them at
prices below their fair value.
Proceedings to condemn the land were instituted by the
appellee, in the United States Circuit Court for Wyoming,
before the overflow. It is said the right to enter was not
acquired until thereafter. The value of the land was ascertained and paid, but the court denied appellants' claim
for the hay, and for loss consequent upon forced sale of the
cattle and destruction of the business. No appeal was
taken. The present suit was instituted to recover for the
items so disallowed. The court below gave judgment for
value of the hay only, and the cause is here upon claimants'
appeal.
Certainly appellants' position in respect of the items in
question is no better than it would have been if no condemnation proceedings had been instituted. In the circumstances suppused there might have been a recovery "for
what actually has been taken, upon the principle that the
Government by the' very act of taking impliedly has
promised to make compensation because the dictates of

SAMPLINER v. MOTION PICTURE CO.
231..

Syllabus.

justice and the terms of the Fifth Amendment so require."
United States v. Cress, 243 U. S. 316, 329. But nothing
could have been recovered for destruction of business or
loss sustained through enforced sale of the cattle. There
was no actual taking of these things by the United States,

and consequently no basis for an implied promise to make
compensation. We need not consider the effect of the
judgment in the condemnation proceedings.
It is suggested that although the United States did not
appeal they may now contest the judgment upon the
ground that there was no contractual obligation to make
compensation for the. hay. "Without an appeal, a party
will not' be heard in an appellate court to question the
correctness of the decree of the trial court." Cherokee
Nation v. Blackfeather, 155 U. S. 218, 221.
The judgment below is
Affirmed.

SAMPLINER

v. MOTION

PICTURE
AL.
ET
,COMPANY

PATENTS

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE' SECOND'

CIRCUIT.
No. 89. Argued November 12, 1920.-Decided December 6, 1920.
A party whojoins the opposing party in requesting the District
Court to instruct peremptorily upon the ground that the evidence
entitles him to a verdict as a matter of law, may reserve his right to
go to the jury if the court should regard the facts as disputed; and
where such reservation, is properly made, the court cannot ignore
it and assume to find the facts from the evidence as though the case
had been unconditionally submitted. P. 239.
' :
Held, that adequate and timely reservation of the right was made in
this case.
255 Fed. Rep. 242, reversed.

