OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Syllabus.

254 U. S.

ERIE RAILROAD COMPANY v. BOARD OF PUBLIC
UTILITY COMMISSIONERS ET AL.
SAME v. SAME.
PASSAIC WATER COMPANY v. SAME.
WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH COMPANY v.
SAME.
D. FULLERTON & COMPANY v. SAME.
MEYER ET AL., PARTNERS DOING BUSINESS
AS MEYER-& DEVOGEL, v. SAME.
MORRIS & COMPANY v. SAME.
PUBLIC SERVICE RAILWAY COMPANY v. SAME.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF ERRORS AND APPEALS OF THE
STATE OF NEW JERSEY.
Nos. 33-40. Argued November 16, 17, 1920.-Decided January 3, 1921.
1. A State may require a railroad company to do away with grade
crossings of public streets, whether laid out before or after the construction of the railroad, and may place upon the company the
expense of executing the State's plan to accomplish this by running
the streets over or beneath the tracks. P. 409.
2. Of the two conflicting interests in such cases--that of the public
using the streets and that of the railroad and the public using it- the former is paramount; and the State may constitutionally insist
that the streets be kept free of danger whatever the cost to the
parties introducing it. P. 410. Distinguishing cases involving the
power to regulate trains.
3. The authority so exercised is an obvious case of the police power;
or it may be regarded as an authori impliedly reserved when the
State granted to the railroad the right to occupy the land. Id.

ERIE R. R. CO. v. PUBLIC UTIL. COMMRS.
394.

395

Syllabus.

4. The order requiring the changes should be regarded as stating a
condition that must be complied with if the railroad continues to
use the soil of the State; but the railroad cannot be compelled to
serve at a loss. P. 410.
5. There being reason to believe that safety requires the change, the
facts that the execution of the plan will interfere with prior contracts
and involve expenditures so heavy as to impair the efficiency of
the railroad as an agency of interstate commerce or even lead to
bankruptcy, do not bring the State's order into conflict with the
contract or commerce clauses of the Constitution or the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 411.
6. The rights of the railroad company in respect of private sidings
are no greater than those ;n respect of the main line. Id.
7. The burden of paying for the required changes may be laid upon
an operating lessee railroad company, without regard to the financial ability of the lessors to compensate it for the required improvements if the leases should be terminated. Id.
8. As the railroad company might be charged the entire expense,
it cannot complain that only 10 per cent. of it is cast upon a street
railway company as to streets used by the latter. 412.
9. While it may be that an order of'a state board directing such •
changes at heavy expense to a railroad company would be so unreasonable as to be void if the evidence plainly did not warrant
a finding that the particular crossings were dangerous, yet such
crossings are generally dangerous and the conclusion reached by
the board and confirmed by the state courts is entitled to much
weight and, if reasonably warranted, must stand. Id.
10. As a State may delegate legislative or quasi-legislative power to
a board, subject to review in the courts (Hall v. Geiger-Jones Co.,
242 U. S.539,) the constitutional aspect of changes ordered at grade
crossings, as regards the railroad company affected, is the same
whether the board ordering them was obliged to do so upon finding
danger or had a discretion in the matter, under the state law. P. 413.
11. A street railway crossing the tracks of a steam road at grade
increases the danger and may be obliged to bear part of the expense
of removing it. Id.
12. And where changes are lawfully ordered, a water company is
not deprived of property without due process by being obliged-to
adjust the pipes to the new conditions at its own expense. Id.
.13. In being so required, a water company is not denied equal protection of the laws as compared with a street railroad company
required to pay 10 per cent. of the total expense of the crossing and

396

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error in Nos. 33, 34.

254 U. S.

presumably more than the expense of merely readjusting its tracks.
P. 413.
14. Held, that changes ordered at railroad grade crossings involving
expense to a telegraph company in adjusting its lines, did not infringe its rights under the Fourteenth Amendment or violate the
commerce clause. P. 414.
15. An order and plan for abolishing grade crossings of a railroad
and public streets, if otherwise valid, is not unconstitutional because it will dislocate private sidings connected with the railroad
and put their owners to expense. Id.
89 N. L. J. 57,24; 90 N.'J. L. 072, 673, 714, 729, 677, 694, 715,
affirmed.

TnE cases are stated in the opinion.
Mr. George q. Hobart and Mr. Charles E. Hughes for
plaintiffs in error in Nos. 33 to 39. Mr. Gilbert Collins and
Mr. George F. Brownell were on the brief for plaintiff in
error inNos. 33 and 34. Mr. William B. Gourley was on
the brief for plaintiffs in error in Nos. 38 and 39. The
argument in Nos. 33 and 34 was as follows:
The-order imposes a burden upon the interstate traffic
of the plaintiff in error and interferes with and impairs
its ability to perform its duty as an interstate carrier of
freight and passengers.
So far as relates to side tracks the execution of the
order requires the entire destruction of several without
any provision for reconstruction or relocation, and requires the destruction of others and suggests reconstruction at different grades and locations. If the order be
construed to require such cost to be paid by the sidetrack owners, it is invalid, as these owners are -not public
utilities; if it:
requires the cost to be paid by plaintiff in
error, it is equally invalid, because plaintiff in error is
not legally bound to pay, and an order requiring it sn
to do takes its property for the benefit of others. As
neither the railroad nor the siding owners can be compelled
to reconstruct and relocate the several sidings, the result

ERIE R. R. CO. v. PUBLIC UTIL. COMMRS.
394.

397

Argument for Plaintiff in Error in Nos. 33, 34.

is that the sidings or the connections thereof with the
main tracks are destroyed and no one can be compelled
to restore them. This interferes with the interstate
commerce of plaintiff in error and for that reason is in
violation of the Federal Constitution. McNeil v. Southern Ry. Co., 202 U. S. 543.
The order also operates as a regulation of interstate
comierce because the great cost of carrying it out impairs the ability of plaintiff in error to perform its public
duty as a common carrier of interstate traffic. Discussing:
Kansas City Southern Ry. Co. v. Kaw Valley District,
233 U. S. 75; Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co. v.
Wisconsin R. R. Commission, 237 U. S. 220; Mississippi
R. R. Commission v. Mobile & Ohio R. R. Co., 244 Uw S.
388. Distinguishing: Denver & Rio Grande R. R. Co. v.
Denver, 250 U. S. 241.
There was no real occasion or necessity for imposing
such an enormous burden upon the company in the
present case. Under the statute upon which the order is
based, the city might well have selected any one of the
crossings, rather than combining 15 of them in a single
proceeding. If 15 crossings in a single city may be considered in one proceeding, there is no reason why all of
the crossings within the limits of a municipality should
not be considered-indeed, there is no logical stopping
place fixed by the boundary line of any municipality;
we might as well include all of the grade crossings in the
entire State upon any particular railroad. We do not
ask this court to review the supposed discretion of the
board to include more than one crossing in the same
order, but we insist that under the undisputed testimony
the necessary effect of an order which requires several
millions to be spent within the limits of a single municipality, coveripg about two miles of main-line track, is
a direct interference with and a burden upon the interstate commerce of plaintiff in error. There are over

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error in Nos. 33, 34.

254 U. S.

2,200 miles of railroad tracks which it is necessary for
plaintiff in error to maintain in an operating condition;
and to appropriate a large part of the money which might
be, and ought to be, used for that purpose and pour it

into a single town-to the detriment of all the rest of the
system, is a direct burden upon the interstate commerce;
and, indeed, even more, because the inevitable result is
t6 leave plaintiff in error no money with which to main.tain the rest of its system, even if it had enough in the
first instance (which the proof shows it had not) to pay
the cost of eliminating the crossings in Paterson.
The order was unreasonable and arbitrary and therefore violates the due process clause, because the evidence
shows without dispute that plaintiff in error did not have
sufficient funds or any means of procuring them for the
purpose of meeting the cost of complying.
The legislature 'may prescribe a standard, by which the
action of an administrative board is to be governed, but
when it undertakes. to commit to such board certain
powers which are dependent upon the existence of certain
facts, the statute -must itself prescribe some standard
upon which the board's action is-made to depend. "
It is impossible to lay down any hard and fast rules'
for determining whether a crossing is "dangerous,' and
hence there is no standard upon which the action of the
board in any particular case must be based. It is equally
impossible to lay down any rule by .which the question
of whether public travel is "impeded" may be deter'mined-unless the word "impeded" be applicable only
to permanent obstructions and not merely to delays or
hindrances caused by the passage of trains.
The statute confers on the board arbitrary power to
order or to refuse to order the alteration of a grade crossing, even though it may find the jurisdictional facts on
which the right to make such order -under the statute
depends.

ERIE R. R. CO. v. PUBLIC UTIL. COMMRS.
394.

399

Argument for Plaintiff in Error in Nos. 33, 34.

There is no provision which requires that the orders
there are
of the commission be lawful and reasonable, as
See Public Util. ComM.
in many other similar statutes.
v. Toledo &c. R. R. Co., 267 Illinois, 93; State v. Great
Northern Ry. Co., 100 Minnesota, 445.
Furthermore, there is no standard fixed with regard
to the proportion of the expense to be borne by a street
railway company, as the board may, but need not, order
not exceeding 10 per cent. to be paid by the street railway
company.
The opinion of the state Supreme Court is not clear
as to whether the statute is to be construed as permissive
or as mandatory, after the board has found the jurisdictional facts as to danger to public safety, or as to
impediment to public travel. If the statute be so construed as to authorize the board to order plaintiff in error
to do certain work for the purpose of eliminating grade
crossings, and to decline to order some one else to do
like work in substantially similar circumstances; plaintiff in error is deprived of the equal 1rotection of the laws,
by being obliged to use its money and property to eliminate grade crossings, while other railroads, similarly
situated, might not be required so to do. In considering
'the constitutionality of a statute, the question depends
upon not what is done, but-what might or coula be done
under it. Montana Co. v. St. Louis Mining Co., 152 U. S.
160; Security Trust Co. v. Lexington, 203 U. S. 323; Centrat of Georgia Ry. Co. v. Wright, 207 U. S. 127; In re
Christensen, 43 Fed. Rep. 243; Grainger v. Douglas Park
Club, 148 Fed. Rep. 513.
On the other hand if, under the statute, the board has
no power to consider any facts other than danger to.public
safety and impediment to public travel, and, therefore,
cannot take into consideration the question of whether
the elimination of the crossing or crossings would result
in any compensating advantage to the railroad or to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error in Nos. 33, 34. 254 U. S.

public, and cannot consider the financial ability of the
railroad to do the work required by the order, the statute
might as well have stated that every grade crossing must

be eliminated, as every crossing, in the 'very nature of
things, is to some extent dangerous to public safety and
to some extent impedes public travel.
We submit that these are not reasonable standards
upon which the action of an administrative body is to be
based, and that, if this be the proper construction, the
statute deprives plaintiff in error of its property without
due process of law.
If it is permissive, it deprives plaintiff in error of the
equal protection of the laws. If the view of the state
courts, that plaintiff in error is not concerned about the

construction of the statute on this point, is correct, we
further submit that the evidence in the present record
shows that the action of the board was unreasonable and
arbitrary, because it appears, without dispute that
plaintiff in error did not have the financial ability to
comply with the order, and hence, if we assume, for the
purpose of argument, that the statute is valid, as against
the objections stated above, the question still remains
whether the present order can be sustained.
Discussing: CattaragusBoard of Trade v. Erie R. R. Co.,

N. Y. Pub. Serv. Comm., December 2, 1914; St. Johnsbury v. Boston & Maine R. R. Co., Vermont Pub. Serv.
Comm., P. U. Rep., 1915 A, p. 641; Maryland Pub. Serv.
Comm., December 16, 1912, Reports, 1912; Report of

Pub:,Util. Commrs. of Connecticut, 1912, p. xlvii; Iowa
Board of Railroad Commrs., Report 1913, p. 43; Erie R.
R. Co. v. Board of Public Utility Commrs., Supreme Court

of New Jersey, April, 19i5 (not reported); Houston &c.
R. R. Co. v. Dallas, 98 Texas, 396; Northern Central Ry.
Company's Appeal, 103 Pa. St. 621; Pen'nsylvania &c.
R. R. v.. Philadelphia& Reading R R., 160 Pa. St. 277;
Cleveland &c. Ry. Co. v. State Public Utilities Comm.,

ERIE R. R. CO. v. PUBLIC UTIL. COMMRS.
394.

401

Argument for Plaintiff in Error in Nos. 33, 34.

273 Illinois, 210; Connecticut Co. v. Stamford, 95 Connet-cut, 26; Chicago & Northwestern Ry. Co. v. Ochs, 249
U. S. 416.
The foregoing authorities show that the element of
expense is an important one; if it is found to be unreasonable under the circumstances of the particular case, that
fact will usually suffice to demonstrate that the order is
arbitrary. See also Chicago &c. Ry. Co. v. Minneapolis,
238 Fed. Rep. 384; Health Department v. Trinity Church,
145 N. Y. 32.
The order was unreasonable and arbitrary and therefore violates the due process clause because plaintiff in
error was not given the alternative of reducing or eliminating the alleged danger to public safety and the alleged
impairment to public travel by decreasing the number
of train movements or by abandoning the railroad.
The general rule that, where a railroad has been constructed and put in operation, the company has no right
to abandon the enterprise or cease to operate, does not
go to the extent of requiring the continuance of operation
at a loss, unless a statute expressly so provides. Jack v.
Williams, 113 Fed. Rep. 823; affd. 145 Fed. Rep. 281;
Iowa v. Old Colony Trust Co., 215 Fed. Rep. 307; Northern
Pacific R. R. Co. v. Dustin, 142 U. S. 492; Amesbury v.
Citizens Electric Ry. Co., 199 Massachusetts, 394; Sherwood v. Atlantic &c. Ry. Co., 94 Virginia, 291; Mississippi
R. R. Commission v. Mobile & Ohio R. R. Co., 244 U. S.
388; Chicago &c. Ry. Co. v. Minneapolis, 238 Fed. Rep.
384.
If the company has no legal power to abandon the railroad no matter how great the loss, it should at least be
given the alternative of decreasing the alleged danger and
impediment by-decreasing the number of train movements, especially when it proposes a reasonable and
practicable scheme therefor which would greatly improve
the train service to and from Paterson and would result

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error in Nos. 33, 34.

254 U. S.

irt a saving of at least half (and probably more) of the
great burden imposed upon it by the order.
In so far as the order requires plaintiff in error to make
certain changes in,
the properties of the Street, Railway
Company and in so far as it limits the proportion of the
expense to be paid by the Street Railway Company to
.certain of the crossings to be eliminated, the order violates
the due process clause for the reason that it takes the
property of plaintiff in error for the use of the Street Railway Company.
The order impairs the obligation of the
contracts
between the plaintiff inerror and the respective owners
or lessees of side tracks. If construed to require the plaintiff in error to relocate or reconstruct side tracks (either
on or off its right of way), at its own expense, it deprives
the plaintiff in error of property, without due process of
law. If not so construed, it deprives the owners or lessees
of side tracks of their property, without, due process of
law. Citing: Missouri Pacific Ry. Co. v. Nebraska, 164
U. S. 403; Missouri Pacific Ry. Co. v. Nebraska, 217 U. S.
196; Oregon R. R. & Navigaion Co. v. Fairchild, 224
U. S. 510; Union Lime" Co. v. Chicago & Northwestern
Ry. Co., 233 U. S. 211; Tap Line Cases, 234 U. S. 1;
Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. North Dakota, 236 U. S.585;
Great Northern Ry. Co. v. Minnesota, 238 U. S. 340; Seaboard Air Line Ry. Co. v. Railroad Commission of Georgia,
240 U. S. 324; Chicago & Northwestern Ry. Co. v. Ochs,
249 U..S. 416; Lake Erie & Western R. R. Co. v. Public
Utilities Commission, 249 U. S. 422, and other cases.
The case is not like that where there is a custom to construct and maintain side tracks for the benefit of industries
that may adjoin the main line tracks. Here we have
express written agreements. In this respect, the case
differs from Armour v. N. Y., N. H. & H. R. R. Co.,
41 R. I. 361. It is more like American Malleables Co. v.
Bloomfield, 83 N. J. L. 728.

ERIE R. R. CO. v. PUBLIC UTIL. COMMRS. 403
394.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error in Nos. 33, 34.

We do not question the general rule that in the reasonable exercise of the police power contracts may be impaired or even canceled.
Under the various statutes and leases by virtue of
which plaintiff in error runs trains through Paterson
over the tracks of the Paterson & Hudson River Railroad
Company and the Paterson & Ramapo Railroad Company,
the legal title to the railroad property remains in the
original companies. If plaintiff in error is obliged to
expend the sum of three million dollars and upwards in the
improvement of the properties of those companies, the
question arises whether such a forced expenditure takes
its property for their. private benefit. These companies
under their respective leases (which have been duly
authorized or ratified by the legislature) may be relieved
from the obligation of running trains during the term of
the lease, but under the order they are also relieved from
the burden of altering the crossings or even from making
any financial contribution for that purpose; they are not
even included as joint obligees, although plaintiff in
error requested that if any order were made it be made
against these two companies and plaintiff in error. jointly,
so that the question of the apportionment of the cost of
eliminating the crossings might be determined by appropriate proceedings. As the landlords of plaintiff in
error and owners of the real estate upon which the improvements required by the order are to be made, they
may sit back and receive the full benefit in, the vastly
increased value of their property without the expenditure
of one penny. There are several contingencies upon
which the leases might be terminated. Eveh if under
obligation to do so, the lessors would not be financially
able to pay for the outlay. But if it be claimed that
under the statute the plaintiff in error is required to make
this vast expenditure for public use rather than for the
private benefit of tle two original companies, the statute

404

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error in Nos. 38, 34.

254 U. S.

is objectionable as taking the property of the plaintiff
in error without just compensation. Under the charters,
the State may take over the property without paying
more than its first cost. The facts bring this feature of
the case within the principle of decision in Myles Salt Co.
v. Iberia DrainageDistrict, 239 U. S. 478.
Again, the statute violates the Fourteenth Amendment because the cost of complying with the order made
by virtue thereof will greatly exceed the value of the
interest of plaintiff in error in the property, and will
make its investment incapable of earning a fair and
reasonable return upon such investment. All the expense
is charged to the plaintiff in error as the operating company, within the meaning of the statute, and the two
underlying companies, are not required to pay any part.
The duty to operate still rests'upon the two underlying
companies; the mere fact that they have executed leases
to some other company whereby the latter undertakes
to perform that duty for them, does not relieve the original companies from their performance of such duty.
There is no valid reason for a distinction between a
lessor and a lessee company which would reasonably
justify the imposition of the entire cost of changes of
grade upon the lessee company, without any contribution
whatever from the lessor. See New York & New England
R. R. Co. v. Bristol, 151 U. S. 556.
The statute, as construed, violates the contract clause
in that it impairs the obligation of the contracts between
plaintiff in error and the lessor companies.
The statute, as construed, violates the contract clause,
in that it impairs the obligation of the contracts between
the State of New Jersey and the lessor companies, to
whose rights plaintiff in error has succeeded, by imposing upon plaintiff in error a greater duty, with respect
to the construction and maintenance of grade crossings,
than was imposed upon them.

ERIE R. R. CO. v. PUBLIC UTIL. COMMRS. 405
394.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error in Nos. 33, 34.

A reserved right to alter charters does not authorize
the confiscation or destruction of property of corporations,
or the taking of property without compensation, and it
must be construed subject to the restrictions of the state
and federal constitutions forbidding the taking of property without due process of law. Delaware, &c. R. R. Co.
v. Board of Pub. Util. Commrs., 85 N. J. L. 28; State v.
Bancroft, 148 Wisconsin, 124; Berea College v. Kentucky,
211 U. S. 45; Grand Trunk Western Ry. Co. v. South Bend,
227 U. S. 544; Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Ry. Co. v.
Wisconsin, 238 U. S. 491.
The statute violates the contract clause and the due
process clause, in that it impairs the obligation of the
contracts between- plaintiff in error and the Street Railway Company by altering their respective rights and duties
as fixed by said contracts; in that it fixes a maximum
proportion to be paid by the Street Railway Company,
without regard to the terms of the contracts and without
regard to the proportion of the danger -:r impediment
created by the Street Railway Company.
The statute violates the Fourteenth Amendment in
that it is an unreasonable exercise of the police power.
SanitaryDistrict v. Chicago & Alton R. R. Co., 267 Illinois,
252; Dobbins v. Los Angeles, 195 U. S. 223; Lawton v.
Steele, 152 U. S. 133; Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S. 366;
Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540; Otis
Elevator Co. v. Chicago, 263 Illinois, 419. Distinguishing:
New York & New England R. R. Co. v. Bristol, 151 U. S.
556.
The question of whether a statute is a reasonable or
an unreasonable exercise of the police power, depends,
to a certain extent, upon the course of legislation, as well
as upon general public opinion. Muller v. Oregon, 208
U. S. 412; Merrick v. Halsey & Co., 242 U. S. 568; Bosley
v. McLaughlin, 236 U. S. 385; People v. CharlesSchweinler
Press, 214 N. Y. 395 [followed by references to the legis-

406.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error in .os. 33, 34. 254 U. S.

lation respecting grade crossings, in New Jersey and in
other States].
In determining whether the police power has been
exercised in a reasonable manner, attention must
be paid to the element of cost. and the practical effect
of the. statute under consideration. Wisconsin &c. R. R.
Co. v. Jacobson, 179 U. S. 287; Oregon R. R. & Navigation
Co. v. Fairchild,224 U. S. 510; Houston &c. R. R. Co. v.
Dallas, 98 Texas, 396; Northern CentralRailway Company's
Appeal, 103 Pa. St. 621; Pennsylvania &c. R. R.' v.
Philadelphia & Reading R. R., 160 Pa. St. 277; Cleveland &c. Ry. Co. v. State Public Utilities Comm., 273
Illinois, 210; Connecticut Co. v. Stamford, 95 Connecticut,
26; Chicago &c. Ry. Co. v. Minneapolis, 238 Fed. Rep.
384; Chicago & Northwestern Ry. Co. v. Ochs, 249 U. S.
416.
If the present statute is sustained, there is no limit to
the enormous burden that might thus be imposed upon a
railroad company, short of the elimination of every grade
crossing on its entire system. If an administrative body
is given power to determine as a matter of fact what
constitutes danger or impediment, and if its conclusion
in that respect is binding on the reviewing court, except
in a case where there is no evidence whatever to sustain
it, then there is no limit to what might be ordered under
such a statute, other than the sound discretion of the
administrative body to whom is committed this vast
power. [Counsel referring to and explaining the following cases in this court: New York & New England R. R.
Co. v. Bristol, 151 U. S. 556; Missouri Pacific Ry. Co. v.
Omaha, 235 U. S. 121; Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. Duluth,
208 U. S.583; St. Paul &c. Ry. Co. v. Minnesota, 214 U. S.
497; Cincinnati &c. R. R. Co. v. Connersville, 218 U. S.
336; Chicago &c. Ry. v. Minneapolis, 232 U. S. 430; Lake
Shore &c. Ry. Co. v. Clough, 242 U. S. 375; Atlantic Coast
Line R. R. Co. v. Goldsboro, 232 U. S. 548; Chicago &

ERIE R. R. CO. v. PUBLIC UTIL. COMMRS.
394.

407

Opinion of the Court.

Alton R. R. Co. v. Tranbarger,238 U. S. 67; Great Northern Ry. Co. v. Clara City, 246 U. S. 434. Also cases of
railway bridges over navigable waters: Chicago &c. By.
Co. v. DrainageCommissioners, 200.U. S. 561; West Chicago
Street R. R. Co. v. Chicago, 201 U. S. 506; Union Bridge Co.
v. United States, 204 U. S. 364; Monongahela Bridge Co.
v. Uniled States, 216 U. S. 177; Hannibal Bridge Co. v.
United States, 221 U. S. 194.]
The present case is illustrated by Chicago &c. Ry. Co.
v. Minneapolis, 238 Fed. Rep. 384. The only case in this
court in which the question of the validity of a state law
providing for the abolition of grade crossings has been
directly involved, is the Bristol Case, supra, which is distinguishable both on the facts and on the statute then
under consideration.
Mr. Frank Bergen for plaintiff in error in No. 40.
Mr. L. Edward Herrmann and Mr. Frank H. Sommer,
with whom Mr. Francis Scott was on the brief, for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE

HoLMEs delivered the opinion of the court.

These are writs of error brought by parties interested
in an order of the Board of Public Utility Commissioners
of New Jersey, dated April 20, 1915, directing a change
in fifteen places in the City of Paterson, where the Erie
Railroad now crosses that number of streets at grade.
The order was reviewed on writs of certiorari and affirmed
by the Supreme Court, and on appeal by the Court
of Errors and Appeals. 89 N. J. L. 57, 24. 90 N. J. L. 672,
673, 714, 729, 677, 694, 715. The Erie Railroad Company
made two applications to the Supreme Court, the second
being based upon a refusal by the Board to grant a rehearing of its order. Accordingly it has two writs of error here.

408

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

But the second adds nothing to the first as we could not
say that the Board unreasonably refused further delay.
Those of the other parties are to the judgments affirming
the original order of the Board. The Erie Railroad was
ordered to make the change by carrying fourteen of the
crossings under, and one, at Madison Avenue, over the
railroad. It will also have to bear the cost, subject to a
charge to the Public Service Railway Company of ten
per centum of the cost of changing three crossings used
by its road. The most important questions arise in the
Erie Railroad Company's case and we take that up first.
The order was made under an Act of March 12, 1913,
c. 57, P. L. 1913, p. 91, which is construed by the State
Courts to authorize it, subject to the constitutional questions to be dealt with here. The Erie Railroad's line in
Paterson is over tracks originally belonging to the President and Directors of the Paterson and Hudson River
Railroad Company and the Paterson and Ramapo Railroad Company, but now held by the Erie Railroad, by
assignment of perpetual leases upon the terms that if in
any unforeseen ,way the leases terminate the value of
erections and improvements must be repaid by the lessors.
They however are small corporations having no assets
except their roads and the rentals received from the Erie
Company. The leases were ratified by an Act of March
14, 1853, providing that they should not be held to confer
any privilege or right not granted to the lessors by their
charters. It is admitted that the statute must be taken
to impose the duty of making the changes upon the company operating the road, the plaintiff in error, which is
an interstate road. It put in evidence that it did not have
assets "sufficient to make the changes, at least without
interfering with the proper development of its interstate
commerce, and also contended that the whole evidence
did not justify the finding of the Board that the crossings
were dangerous to public safety but at most showed that

ERIE R. R. CO. v. PUBLIC UTIL. COMMRS.
394.

409

Opinion of the Court.

the change would be a public convenience. It is said
that the order must be reasonable to be upheld and that
it is not reasonable to require an expenditure for such a
purpose of over two million dollars from a company that
has not more than $100,000 available, and that the order
and the statute when construed to justify it not only
interfere unwarrantably with interstate commerce and
impair the obligation of contracts but take the Erie Company's property without due process of law.
Most of the streets concerned were laid out later than
the railroads and this fact is relied upon, so far as it goes,
as an additional reason for denying the power of the State
to throw the burden of this improvement upon the railroad. That is the fundamental question in the case. It
might seem to be answered by the summary of the decisions given in Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Ry. Co. v.
Minneapolis, 232 U. S. 430, 438. "It is well settled that
railroad corporations may be required, at their own expense, not only to abolish existing grade crossings but
also to build and maintain suitable bridges or viaducts
to carry highways, newly laid out, over their tracks or to
carry their tracks over such highways." Missouri Pacific
Ry. Co. v. Omaha, 235 U. S. 121; Northern Pacific Ry. Co.
v. Puget Sound & Willapa Harbor Ry. Co., 250 U. S. 332.
For although the statement is said to be explained as a
matter of state law by the previous decisions in Minnesota,
it is made without reference to those decisions or to any
local rule, and moreover the intimation of the judgment
in the present case is that whatever may have been the
earlier rulings the law of New Jersey now adopts the same
view.
But it is argued that the order is unreasonable in the
circumstances to which we have adverted, the principle
applied to the regulation of public service corporations
being invoked. Mississippi Railroad Commission v.
Mobile & Ohio R. R. Co., 244 U. S. 388, 391; Chicago,

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co. v. Railroad Commission
of Wisconsin, 237 U. S. 220. But the extent of the States'
power varies in different cases from absolute to qualified,
somewhat as the privilege in respect of inflicting pecuniary
damage varies. The power of the State over grade crossings derives little light from cases on the power to regulate trains.
Grade crossings cal for a necessary adjustment of two
conflicting interests-that of the public using the streets
and that of the railroads and the public using them.
Generically the streets represent the more important
interest of the two. There can be no doubt that they did
when these railroads were laid out, or that the advent
of automobiles has given them an additional claim to
consideration. They always are the necessity of the whole
public, which the railroads, vital as they are, hardly can
be called to the same extent. Being places to which the
public is invited and that it necessarily frequents, the
State, in the care of which this interest is and from which,
ultimately, the railroads derive their right to occupy the
land, has a constitutional right to insist that they shall
not be made dangerous to the public, whatever may be
the cost to the parties introducing the danger. That is
one of the most obvious cases of the police power, or to
put the same proposition in another form, the authority
of the railroads to project their moving masses across
thoroughfares must be taken to be subject to the implied
limitation that it may be cut down whenever and so far
as the safety of the public requires. It is said that if
the same requirement were made for the other grade
crossings of the road it would soon be bankrupt. That
the States might be so foolish as to kill a goose that lays
golden eggs for them, has no bearing on their constitutional rights. If it reasonably can be said that safety
requires the change it is for them to say whether they
will insist upon it, and neither prospective bankruptcy

ERIE R. R. CO. v. PUBLIC UTIL; COMMRS.
394.

411

Opinion of the Court.

nor engagement in interstate commerce can take away
this fundamental right of the sovereign of the soil. Denver
& Rio Grande R. R. Co. v. Denver, 250 U. S. 241., 246. To
engage in interstate commerce the railroad must get .'n
to the land and to 'get on to it must comply with the conditions imposed by the State for the safety of its citizens.
Contracts made by the road are made subject to the
possible exercise of the sovereign right. Oenver & Rio
Grande R. R. Co. v. Denver, 250 U. S. 241, 244; Union Dry
Goods Co. v. Georgia Public Service Co., .248 U. S. 372;
Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Mottley, 219 U. S. 467;
Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. Duluth, 208 U. S.583; Manigault v. Springs, 199 1U. S. 473, 480. If the burdens imposed- are so great that the road cannot be run at a profit
i*can stop, whatever the misfortunes the stopping may
produce. Brooks-Scanlon Co. v. Railroad Commission
of Louisiana, 251 U. S. 396. Intelligent self-interest
should lead to a carefuj consideration of what the road
is able to do without ruin, but this is not a constitutional
duty. In the opinion of the Courts below the evidence
justified the conclusion of the Board that the expense
would not be ruinous. Many details as to the particular
situation of this road are disposed of without the need of
further mention by what we have said thus far.
The plaintiff in error discusses with considerable detail
the effect of the changes upon private sidings. But its
rights in respect of these are at least no greater than those
in respect of the main line and are covered by the preceding discussion. So are the objections that if the leases
ever are terminated it has no chance of being repaid the
value of its improvements because of the smallness of
the lessor corporations. They would have this property
in that event and it would be subject to their obligationbut the answer to the complaint of the plaintiff in error
in all its forms is that which we have made. Whatever
the cost, it may be required by New Jersey not to 'iia-

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

peril the highways if it does business there. We agree
with the decisions below that as the railroad company
might have been charged with the whole expense the fact
that no more than ten per centum of the cost of 'three
crossings is thrown upon a street railway company is a
matter of which it cannot complain.
If we could see that the evidence plainly did not warrant
a finding that the particular crossings were dangerous
there might be room for the argument that the order was
so unreasonable as to be void. The number of accidents
shown was small and if we went upon that alone we well
might hesitate. But the situation is one that always is
dangerous. The Board must be supposed to have known
the locality and to have had an advantage similar to
that of a Judge who sees and hears the witnesses. The
Courts of the State have confirmed its judgment. The
tribunals were not bound to await a collision that might
cost the road a sum comparable to the cost of the change.
If they were reasonably warranted in their conclusion
their judgment must stand. We cannot say that they
were not. At some crossings the danger was less than
at others, but it was necessary or at least prudent to proceed on a general plan. Upon the whole matter while it is
difficult to avoid the apprehension that the state officials
hardly gave due weight to the situation of the company
as a whole in their anxiety for the well-being of the State,
we are of opinion that they did not exceed their constitutional powers. The order should be regarded as stating a
condition that must be complied with if the company
continues to use the New Jersey soil. Probably the conclusion that we have reached could be supported upon
the narrower ground that a continuing obligation was
imposed by the charters of the plaintiff in error's lessors,
and was assumed by the plaintiff in error, but that which
we have stated seems to us free from doubt.
Some argument is based upon a discretion supposed

ERIE R. R. CO. v. PUBLIC UTIL. COMMRS. 413
394.

Opinion of the Court.

to be left to the Board by the statute, which reads that
when it appears to the Board that the crossing is dangerous it may order, &c. The State Courts seem to regard
the words as imposing a positive duty, but upon either
construction we perceive no infraction of the company's
constitutional rights. If the words are imperative the
reasons that we have given apply. If they leave a discretion it is subject to review by the Courts, and this
Court has no concern with the question how far legislative
or quasi-legislative powers may be delegated to a commission or board. Hall v. Geiger-Jones Co., 242 U. S. 539;
Engel v. O'Malley, 219 U. S. 128; Prentis v. Atlantic Coast
Line Co., 211 U. S. 210, 225. We deem it unnecessary
to give our reasons in greater detail for deciding .that
the judgment against the Erie Railroad Company must
be affirmed.
While the Railroad Company contends that the Public
Service Railway Company should be charged more, the
latter company comes here upon the proposition that
it should be charged nothing. We agree with the Courts
below that a street railway crossing the tracks of a steam
road at grade in a public street increases the danger and
may be required to bear i part of the expense of removing
it. The amount charged does not appear to be excessive
and upon the principles that we have laid down the payment of it may be made a condition of the continued
right to use the streets. Detroit, Fort Wayne & Belle Isle
Ry. v. Osborn, 189 U. S. 383, 390; Missouri Pacific Ry. C9.
v. Omaha, 235 U. S. 121, 129.
The Passaic Water Company contends that the expenie
of moving its pipes cannot be thrown wholly upon it-mainly on the ground that the change of grade was ualawful. This ground fails and the company must adjust
itself to the lawfully changed conditions. It also contends that it does not receive the equal protection of th e
laws because the street railway instead of being charged

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.

Dissent.

254 U. S.

the expense of moving its tracks is charged ten per centum
of the total expense at its crossings. Presumably this
charge is greater than the mere adjustment of tracks to a
new surface. It is based upon the share of the street
railroad in creating the danger. As the street railroad
cannot complain, certainly the Water Company cannot.
The Western Union Telegraph Company makes similar
objections and also says that its interstate commerce is
interfered with and presents from its own point of view
arguments dealt with so far as they seem to us to need
mention in disposing of the principal case. The other
plaintiffs in error own side tracks which will be dislocated
by the change and they will be put to further expense
if the plan is carried out according to what the New Jersey.
Court decides to be suggestions not commands. The
rights in the side tracks are subordinate to changes in
the main track otherwise lawful. As against these as
against the others the judgment of the Court of Errors
and Appeals is affirmed.
Judgments affirmed.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER and
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS dissent.

