WELLS FARGO & 00. v. TAYLOR.

175

Syllabus.
WELLS FARGO AND COMPANY v. TAYLOR.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 41.

Argued December 19, 1919.--Decided December 6, 1920.

1. Where the District Court'sustains a bill in equity against a demurrer
and upon final hearing renders a decree for the plaintiff, a reversal
ordered by the Circuit Court of Appeals purely because of an amendable deficiency of the bill and unaccompanied by any direction
that the bill be dismissed or implication forbidding its amendment,
leaves the District Court free to permit the amendment; and the
fact that the Circuit Court of Appeals, in denying a petition .for
rehearing, refused to direct the allowance of the amendment signifies
merely that it saw no occasion to control the District Court's discretion in thematter. P. 181.
2. The provision of the Judicial Code (§ 265, formerly Rev. Stats.,
§720) forbidding any court of the United States to grant an injunction to stay proceedings in any court of a State, is intended to give
effect to the principle of comity and to prevent unseemly interference with the orderly disposal of litigation in the state courts, but
not to hamper the federal courts in the discharge of duties otherwise
plainly cast upon them by the Constitution and by the laws of
Congress. P. 182.
3. The inhibition does not forbid the federal courts to enjoin a party
from collecting a judgment obtained in a state court where its enforcement would be contrary to recognized principles of equity and
the standards of good conscience. P. 183. See headnote 6, infra.
4. An arrangement between a railroad company and an express company whereby, in consideration of stipulated payments, the former
grants to the latter the exclusive privilege of conducting the express
business over its line, and transports, by cars provided by it and
attached to its passenger trains, the express matter and accompanying messengers of the latter, besides furnishing room in its stations
for the express company's use, and under which the latter assumes
all risk of damage to its property and express matter so tr ansported
and of injury to its agents and employees while engaged in its businos on the trains or property of the railro.d company, and agrees.
to indemnify that company against claims for damages suffered by

176

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.

Opinion of the Court.

254 U. 8.

such agents or employees while so engaged-does not create a partnership relation but constitutes the business of the express company
distinct from that of the railroad company, so that an employee of
the express company, while employed as its messenger on an express
car in course of transportation, cannot be treated as an employee of
the railroad company for the purpose of applying the Employers'
Liability Act. P. 186.
5. The Employers' Liability Act, applicable to "every common carrier
by railroad," does not embrace an express company conducting its
business under such an arrangement with a railroad company. P. 187.
6. An express company operating over a railroad under an agreement
by which it assumed all risk of injury to its employees while engaged
in its business on the trains of the railroad company and agreed to
indemnify that company against such claims, employed a messenger
who, as a condition' to his employment, assented to this understanding and agreed on his part to assume all risk of injury incident tQ
his employment, from whatever cause arising. The employee was
injured by the negligence of the railroad company while in discharge
of his duties to the express company, and recovered judgment
against the railroad company in an action in a state court in which
the express company was not a party and could not be heard. He
was financially irresponsible. Held, that his contract was valid and
bound him to the express company not to assert such a liability
against either company, and that the express company was equitably
entitled to enforce the obligation by a suit against him in the District Court (diverse citizenship being present) in which collection
of the judgment should be enjoined. P. 188.
249 Fed. Rep. 109, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Chares W. Stockton, with whom Mr. K. E. Stockton
and Mr. Edward R. Whittingham were on the brief, for
petitioner.
Mr. Thoma8 Fite Paine for respondent.
MR.JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the court.
Oscar G. Taylor, an express messenger of Wells Fargo &
Company, a common carrier by express, received sub-

WELLS FARGO & CO. v. TAYLOR.
175.

Opinion of the .Court.

stantial personal injuries through the derailment of -an
express car in which he was working, and which was part of
a passenger train moving over the railroad of the St. Louis
and San Francisco Railroad Company in the State of
Mississippi,-the derailment •resulting from negligence
on the part of the railroad company and its employees.
To recover for these injuries Taylor brought an action
against the railroad company in the Circuit Court of
Monroe County, Mississippi, and obtained a judgment for
$4,000, which was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the
State without an opinion. See 58 So. Rep. 485.
In his declaration in that case Taylor explained and
justified his presence on the train and in the express car by
of the express
alleging that he was then in the employ
company as its messenger and in the course of that employment was in -charge of express matter which the
railroad company was transporting for the express company, that this transportation was in pursuance of a
contract between the two companies, and that under the
contract the express car was furnished by the railroad
company and he, as the express company's messenger, was
permitted to accompany the express matter carried therein.
While the declaration said nothing more about the nature or terms of that contract, it is important here to have
them in mind. The contract shows that it was intended
.to, and did, cover all express business on and over the railroad company's road, both within and without the State of
Mississippi, for a specified period, including the day when
Taylor was injured. It gave to the express company the
exclusive privilege of conducting an express business on
and over the railroad and obligated the railroad company
to refrain from conducting an express business. There
were provisions whereby the railroad company agreed, (a)
to transport by suitable cars, to be provided by it and
attached to its passenger trains, all express matter of the
express company and the messengers accompanying the

OCTQBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S

same, (b) to light and warm the cars and equip themwith
necessary conveniences, and (c) to permit portions of itE

station houses to be used by the express company for the
reception, safekeeping and delivery of express matter.
And there were other provisions whereby the express
company agreed, (a) to make stated payments-usually
a percentage of the gross earnings-for the facilities
furnished and service rendered by the railroad company,
(b) to assume all risks, losse and damages to its own
property, express matter and valuable packages transported under the contract, (c) to assume all risk and damage to its agents and employees while engaged in its business on the trains or property of the railroad company, and
(d) to indemnify and hold harmless the railroad company
in respect of all claims for damages suffered by such
agents and employees while so engaged.
- There was also a contract between Taylor and the express company, spoken of as a messenger's agreement,
wherein,-following a recital that he had full knowledge of
the service required and the conditions on which the railroad company would permit messengers to accompany
express matter on its trains, and that with such knowledge
he was. desirous of becoming a messenger of the express
company,-it was stipulated, as a term or condition of his
employment, that neither the express company nor the
railroad company should under any circumstances or in
any case be liable for any injury which he might receive
while on the railroad company's trains as such messenger,
whether caused by negligence of the railroad company or
otherwise, and that he would assume all and eveij risk
inoident to such employment, from whatever cause arising.
Promptly after Taylor sued the railroad company in the
Circuit Court of Monroe County, and before the case was
brought to trial, the express company presented to that
court .in that cause a petition wherein it set out the contracts just described and asked to be made a party defend-

WELLS FARGO & CO. v. TAYLOR.
175.

.179

Opinion of the Court.

ant. To this the railroad company assented, but Taylor
evidently objected and the petition was denied. The
railroad company by its answer and evidence sought to
avail itself of the stipulation in the messenger's agreement, in connection with those in the other contract, but
the court ruled against it and Taylor obtained the judgment before mentioned.
What has been recited will conduce to a right understanding of another suit the decree in which we are now
to review.
The suit is in equity and was brought by the express
company against Taylor in the District Court :of the
United States for the Northern District of Mississippi.
The federal jurisdiction rests on diversity of citizenship,the express company being a corporation and citizen of
Colorado, and Taylor a citizen of Mississippi, residing
in the Northern District. The bill, with a supplement
and amendment, proceeds on the theory that, in suing the
railroad company and obtaining a judgment against it,
which as between that company and the express company
must be paid by the latter as stipulated in their contract,
Taylor not only violated the messenger's agreement, but
perpetrated a legal fraud on the express company; that the
judgment is therefore one which in equity and good conscience he has no right to enforce; that if he be permitted
to enforce it the express company will be without any
effective remedy in that he has no property which can be
reached by legal process (a fact which .is both alleged and
proved); and that the express company, which was not a
party to that case, and has not been in any wise negligent
or at fault, is in equity and good conscience entitled to
have the messenger's agreement respected and to demand
that the claims embraced in the inequitable judgment be
relinquished and the enforcement of the judgment enjoined. The prayer conforms to that theory and is in
substance that Taylor be required specifically to perform

OCTOBER TERM, 1920..
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

and carry out the messenger's agreement, to execute a
sufficient release of all claims on account of the injuries
received, and' to abstain from enforcing the judgment.
General relief also is prayed.
Taylor challenged the bill by a demurrer, which was
overruled, and after a hearing in due course the express
company prevailed. On appeal to the Circuit Court of
Appeals that decree was reversed and the suit remanded
because in that court's opinion the bill did not show that
Taylor was not in the employ of the railroad company
or that he was solely in the employ of the express company. 220 Fed. Rep. 796. After the mandate was received, Taylor, conceiving that the decision of the Circuit
Court of Appeals fully disposed of the merits and was final,
requested the District Court to enter a decree dismissing
the bill, and the express company requested leave to
amend the bill by correcting the defect pointed out by the
Circuit Court of Appeals. Taylor's request was denied
and that of the express company was granted. The bill
was accordingly amended so as to show that Taylor was
not in the employ of the railroad company, but was on the
train solely in virtue of his employment by the express
company, and that in his declaration in the action against
the railroad company he did not claim or allege any employment by that company, but, on the contrary, claimed
and alleged that it permitted him to be on the train because he was accompanying the express matter as the express company's employee. Taylor then filed a new an-swer, and on a further hearing a decree for the express
company was entered. By it the-District Court found that
the allegations of, tlie,bill,.with its supplement and amendment, were all true; 'declared that the institution of the
action against the railroad company and its -prosecution
to judgment constituted a violation of the messenger's
agreement and a legal fradd on the express company;
directed Taylor to carr out and perform the messenger's

WELLS FARGO & CO. v. TAYLOR.
175.

Opinion of the Court.

agreement and to execute, within a fixed time, an appropriate instrument releasing the express company and the
railroad company from all claims for damages on account
of his injuries, and enjoined him from collecting or attempting to collect the judgment against the railroad company. On a further appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals
that decree was reversed with directions to dismiss the bill.
249 Fed. Rep. 109. A writ of certiorari was then granted
by this court.
On the second appeal the Circuit Court of Appeals put
its decision entirely on the ground that the express coinpany was a "common carrier by railroad" within the
meaning of the Employers' Liability Act of April 22, 1908,
c. 149, 35 Stat. 65, and therefore under § 5 of the act the
messenger's agreement was void. Taylor advanced that
and other grounds in asking a reversal, but the court did
not discuss the other grounds. All are pressed on our
attention, and we take them up in what seems the natural
order.
1. It is urged that the decision of the Circuit Court of
Appeals on the first appeal was final in that it disposed of
all questions in the suit and left nothing open to the Dis-'
trict Court but to dismiss the bill. Had this been so, the
Circuit Court of Appeals on the second appealhardly would
have failed to enforce its prior decision. But that decision
did not go as far -s is claimed. It turned on the sufficiency
of the bill, and on that alono. The District Court had
held the bill sufficient when challenged by a demurrer.
The Circuit Court of Appeals held it insufficient, and for
that reason reversed the decree and remanded the suit.
Had the District Court taken that view when acting on
the demurrer, it undoubtedly could, and probably would,
have allowed an amendment curing the defect. Could it
not equally allow the amendment after the Circuit Court
of Appeals pointed out the defect and remanded the suit?
.It, of course, was bound to give effect to the decision and

182

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

mandate of the Circuit Court of Appeals; but that court
did not order the bill dismissed nor give any direction even
impliedly making against the amendment. All that was
disposed of was the matter of the sufficiency of the bill.
And recognition of this is found in the last opinion of the
Circuit Court of Appeals, where it is said that the first
reversal was "based upon the insufficiency of the pleadings." We think the decision on the first appeal was not
final and that the District Court was left free, in the
exercise of its discretion, to permit'the amendment.
Equity Rules, Nos. 19 and 28; In re Sanford Fork & Tool
Co., 160 U. S. 247, 258-259; Mutual Life Insurance Co. v.
Hill, 193 U. S. 551, 553; Smith v. Adams, 130 U. S. 167,
177. It appears that in denying a petition for a rehearing
on the first appeal the Circuit Court of Appeals refused
to direct the allowance of the amendment; but this signifies
nothing more than that no occasion was perceived for controlling the District Court's discretion in the matter.
2. Section 265, Judicial Code, formerly § 720, Rev.
Stats., provides that "The writ of injunction shall not be
granted by any court of the United States to stay proceedings in any court of a State, except in cases where such
injunction may be authorized by any law relating to proceedings in bankruptcy"; and this is relied on as showing
that the District Court could not entertain the suit. That
court held the provision not applicable, and the Circuit
Court of Appeals said nothing on the subject on either
appeal, possibly because in a similar case it had held the
provision without application.
Is the suit one to stay proceedings in a state court in the
sense of that provision? If it is, the District Court erred
in not dismissing the bill on that ground. Haines v.
Carpenter, 91 IT.S. 254; Dial v. Reynolds, 96.U. S. 340;
United States v. Parkhurst-DavisCo., 176 U. S. 317. If it
is not, the court rightly entertained the suit and proceeded
to an adjudication of the merits, for the citizenship of the

WELLS FARGO & CO. v. TAYLOR.
175.

Opinion of the Court.

parties and the amount in controversy were within the
jurisdictional requirements.
The provision has been in force more than a century and
often has been considered by this court. As the decisions
show, it is intended to give effect to a familiar rule 6f
comity and like that rule is limited in its field of operation.
Within that field it tends to prevent unseemly interference
with the orderly disposal of litigation in the state courts
and is salutary; but to carry it beyond that field would
materially hamper the federal courts in'the discharge of
duties otherwise plainly cast upon them by the Constitution and the laws of Congress, which of course is not contemplated. As with many other statutory provisions, this
one is designed to be in accord with, and not antagonistic:
to, our dual system of courts. In recognition of this it has
come to be settled by repeated decisions and in actual
practice that, where the elements of federal and equity
jurisdiction are present, the provision does not prevent
the federal courts from enjoining the institution in the
state courts of proceedings to enforce local statutes which
are repugnant to the Constitution of the United States,
Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 123; Truax v. Raich, 239 U. S.
33; Missouri v. Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co.,
241 U. S. 533,,538, 543; or prevent themi from maintaining
and protecting their own jurisdiction, properly acquired
and still subsisting, by enjoining attempts to frustrate,
defeat or impair it through proceedings in the state courts,
French v. Hay, 22 Wall. 250; Julian v. Central Trust
Co., 193 U. S.93, 112; Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co. v. McCabe, 213 U. S. 207, 219; Looney v. Eastern Texas R. R. Co.,
247 U. S. 214, 221; or prevent them from depriving a party,
by means of an injunction, of the benefit of a judgment
obtained in a state. court in circumstances where its enforcement will be contrary to recognized principles of
equity and the standards of good conscience, Marshall
v. Holmes, 141 U. S.589; Ex parte Simon, 208 U. S.144;

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

Simon v. Southern Ry. Co., 236 U. S. 115; PublicService Co.

v. Carboy, 250 U. S. 153, 160; National Surety Co. v. State
Bank of Humboldt, 120 Fed. Rep. 593.
Marshall v. Holmes, just cited, was a suit in equity to
enjoin one who had obtained judgments in a state court
from enforcing them, that relief being sought on the
ground that they were secured by fraud which was not
discovered until after they were rendered; and the question distinctly presented was whether the suit was one
which the Circuit Court of the United States could entertain and decide, the requisite diversity of citizenship and
amount in dispute being present. This court,--after
adverting to prior decisions stating the familiar doctrine
that "any fact which clearly proves it to be against
conscience to execute a judgment, and of which the injured party could not have availed himself in a court of
law, or of which he might have availed himself at law,
but was prevented by fraud or accident, unmixed with any
fault or negligence in himself or his agents, will justify an
application to a court of chancery," and also showing that
such a suit is not one to review or revise the action of the
court rendering the judgment, but is a new and independent suit for equitable relief,-answered the question by
saying: "These authorities would spem to place beyond
question the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court to take
cognizance of the present suit, which is none the less an
original, independent suit, because it relates to judgments
obtained in the court of another jurisdiction. While it
cannot require the state court itself -to set aside or vacate
the judgments in question, it may, as between the parties
.before it, if the facts justify such relief, adjudge that
Mayer shall not enjoy the inequitable advantage obtained
by his judgments. A decree to that effect would operate
directly upon him, and would not contravene that provision of the statute prohibiting a court of the United States
Jrom granting a writ of injunction to stay proceedings in a

WELLS FARGO & CO. v. TAYLOR.
175.

186

Opinion of the Court.

state court. It would simply take from him the benefit of
judgments obtained by fraud."
Simon v. Southern Ry. Co., supra, was a suit in a Circuit
Court of the United States to enjoin the enforcement of a
judgment in a state court on the ground that it was obtained by fraud and without notice, and the defendant
invoked the provision in,§ 265. The Circuit Court took
jurisdiction and awarded the relief sought. That decision'
was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals and on a
further appeal was sustained by this court. At that time
this court considered the provision in the light of its origin
and purpose, reviewed the prior decisions and in an extended opinion having the approval ,of the entire court
reaffirmed the ruling in Marshall v. Holmes.
National Surety Co. v. State Bank of Humboldt, supra,
was a suit in a federal court to obtain like relief in respect
of a judgment in a state court on the ground that through
a mistake of a public officer, for which he alone was responsible, the judgment had been rendered without opportunity for putting in a defense, and this when there was one
which was both meritorious and complete. The suit was
not brought by the judgment defendant, but by one
who was obligated to pay the judgment if it was enforced.
The bill was dismissed because of the provision now relied
on; but that decision was reversed by the Circuit Court of
Appeals in a well considered opinion wherein it was said
that in cases otherwise within the jurisdictional statute
"'the Circuit Courts of the United States have the same
jurisdiction and power to enjoin a judgment plaintiff
from enforcing an unconscionable judgment of a state
court, which has been procured by fraud, accident, or mistake, that they have to restrain him from collecting a like
judgment of a federal court"; that the bill presented a new
and justiciable case which had not been presented to nor
decided by the state court and did not "fall under the ban
of the section of the statute under consideration"; and

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.

Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

that "In this case all these facts concur-the judgment
which it is against conscience to allow to be used to extort
money that is not owing from a defendant remediless at
law, the complete meritorious defense to the claim on
which this judgment is based, the fact that the defendant
in the judgment was prevented from availing itself of its
defense to the cause of action by an unavoidable accident,
and the absence of any negligence of the defendant or of its
agents. These facts appeal with compelling force to the
conscience of a chancellor. They have been presented to
a court to which the Constitution and the acts-of Congress
have granted the power, and upon which they have
imposed the duty, to grant the relief to which the complainants are equitably entitled; and the decree which dismissed their bill must be reversed."
Without pursuing the subject further, we hold that the
present suit is not one to stay proceedings in a state court
in the sense of § 265.
3. Does the Employers' Liability Act affect the validity
of the messenger's agreement?
The act provides that "every common carrier by railroad" shall be liable in damages for the injury or death of
any of its employees occurring while it is engaged and he is
employed in interstate commerce and resulting in whole or
in part from the negligence of any of its officers, agents or
employees, or from any defect or insufficiency, due to its
negligence, "in its cars, engines, appliances, machinery,
track, roadbed," etc.; and in § 5 it declares that any
contract whereby, a common carrier exempts itself from
"any liability created by this Act" shall to that extent
be void.
In his declaration in the state court Taylor did not claim
that he was in the employ of the railroad company, and his
judgment was not obtained on that theory. Here it is
shown with certainty that he was not in that company's
employ. True he urges that the contract between the two

WELLS FARGO & CO. v. TAYLOR.
175.

Opinion of the Court.

companies shows a co-proprietorship or sort of partnership
between them which made him an employee of both; but
the contract discloses no basis for the claim or for distinguishing his case from that of the Pullman porter recently
before us. Robinson v. Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co., 237
U. S. 84. Here the businesses of the companies concerned
were quite as distinct in point of control and otherwise as
they were there. That here the railroad company provided the express car is not material, for it is measurably
equalized by other differences. Inboth cases the railroad
company provided the motive power and the train operatives. The messenger here, like the porter there, was on
the train as an employee, not. of the railroad company,
but of another by whom he was employed, directed and
paid, and at whose will he was to continue in serviceor
be discharged.
As respects the express company, it appears not merely
that Taylor was in its employ, but also that the injuries
were received while it was engaged and he was employed in
interstate commerce; and so the question is presented
whether the act embraces a common carrier by express
which neither owns nor operates a railroad, but uses and
pays for railroad transportation in the manner before
shown. The District Court answered the question in the
negative and the Circuit Court of Appeals in the affirmative. A negative answer also has been given in a :ike
situation by the Court of Errors and Appeals of New
Jersey, Higgins v. Erie R. R. Co., 89 N. J. L. 629; and a
recent decision by the Supreme Court of Minnesota makes
persuasively for that view. State ex rel. Great Northern
Express Co. v. DistrictCourt, 142 Minnesota, 410.
In our opinion the words "common carrier by railroad,"
as used in the act, mean one who operates a railroad as a
means of carrying for the public,-that is to say, a railroad
company acting as a common carrier. This view not only
is in accord with the ordinary acceptation of the words,

188

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U.13.

but is enforced by. the. mention of cars, engines, track,
roadbed and other property pertaining to a going railroad
(see Southern PacificCo. v. Jensen, 244 U. S. 205, 212-213);
by the obvious reference in the latter part of §§ 3 and 4 to
statutes requiring engines and cars to be equipped with
automatic couplers, standard drawbars and other appliances intended to promote the safety of railroad employees (see San Antonio & Aransas Pass Ry. Co. v. Wagner, 241 U. S. 476, 484); by the use of similar words in
closely related acts which apply only to carriers operating
railroads, c. 196, 27 Stat. 531; c. 225, 35 Stat. 476; c. 208,
36 Stat. 350, and by the fact that similar words in the
original Interstate Commerce Act had been construed as
including carriers operating railroads but not express
companies doing business as here shown. 1 I. C. C. 349;
United States v. Moreman, 42 Fed. Rep. 448; Southern
Indiana Express Co. v. United States Express Co., 88 Fed.
Rep. 659,'662; s. c. 92 Fed. Rep. 1022. And see American
Express Co. v. United States, 212 U. S. 522, 531, 534.
As Taylor was not an employee of the railroad company
and the express company was not within the Employers'
Liability Act, it follows that the act has no bearing on the
liability of either company or on the validity of the messenger's agreement.
4. There being no statute regulating the subject, it is
settled by the decisions of this court, and is recognized in
other jurisdictions, that the messenger's agreement was a
valid and binding contract whereby Taylor agreed to
assume all risk of injury incident to his employment,
from whatever cause arising, assented to the contractual
arrangement between the two companies in respect of
such injuries, and became obligated to the express company to refrain from asserting any liability against it or
the railroad company on account of any such injuries.
Express Cases, 117 U. S. 1; Baltimore & Ohio Southwestern
Ry. Co. v. Voigt, 176 U. S. 498, and cases cited; Santa Fe,

JIN FUEY MOY v. UNITED STATES.
175.

Syllabus

Prescott & Phmniz Ry. Co. v. Grant Brothers Construction
Co., 228 U. S. 177; Robinson v. Baltimore & Ohio R. R.
Co., supra;Perryv. Philadelphia,Baltimore & Washington
R. R. Co., 24 Delaware, 399; McKay v. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. (Tenn.), 182 S. W. Rep. 874; Fowler V.
Pennsylvania R. R. Co., 229 Fed. Rep. 373. In violation
of that agreement he wrongfully sought and obtained a
judgment against the railroad company, which as between
the two companies the express company is bound to pay.
The judgment' was obtained in an action to which that
company was not a party and wherein it could not be
heard. He is financially irresponsible and if the judgment
is collected the express company, which has not been in
any wise negligent or at fault, will be remediless. In
these circumstances, that company is entitled in equity
and good conscience, as is shown by the cases before cited,
to a decree holding him to his agreement and depriving
him of his present inequitable advantage, and to that end
enjoining him from collecting the judgment.
It follows that the decree of the District Court was right
and that the Circuit Court of Appeals erred in reversing it.
Decree reversed.

JIN FUEY MOY v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT 'COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 44. Argued October 11, 1920.-Decided December 6, 1920.
1. In a caseproperly here on a constititionai question under Jud. Code,
§ 238, the court retains its jurisdiction to decide other quest ons
presented, after the constitutional question has been settled in another cae. P. 191.
2. In an indictment charging defendant with unlawfully selling mor-

