ANA MARIA CO. v. QUINONES.
242.

Syllabus.

we think the same reasons which exclude such contracts
from admiralty jurisdiction likewise apply to agreements
made after the hull is in the water, for the work and
material necessary to consummate a partial construction
and bring the vessel into condition to function as intended.
The judgment of the court below is
Affine.

ANA MARIA SUGAR COMPANY, INC., v.
QUINONES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.
No. 54. Argued October. 21, 1920.-Decided December 6, 1920.
1. The rule that errors in rulings of law committed in a trial court cannot be considered on writ of error unless raised by bill of exceptions
has no application to rulings by an intermediate appellate court,
like the Supreme Court of Porto Rico, although it has power to
review the evidence, make new findings of fact and enter such judgment as it may deem proper. Such rulings are part of the record
and need not be excepted to. P. 247.
2. The jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the First Circuit
under the Act of JLnary 28, 1915, to review judgments of the Supreme Court of Porto Rico, does not include power to review findat law. P. 248.'
ings of fact made by that court in an action
3. A mistake in bringing up such a case by an appeal instead of a writ
of error, is cured by the Act of September 6, 1916, but that act does
not abolish the distinction between the two modes of review, and
the case will be reviewed as on writ of error. Id. •
4. Where a judgment of the Supreme Court of Porto Rico iu a.action
for breach of contract was assailed in the Circuit Court of Appeals
as based on a particular method of measuring damages, aflged to
have been erronenus, but it appeared, from the opinion of thelformer.
court that the damages were allowed on other grounds which:were

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

"254 U. S.

not assigned as error or otherwise objected to in the Circuit Court
of Appeals and were not there considered, held, that they could not
be insisted upon as grounds for reversal by this court. P. 249.
251 Fed. Rep. 499, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. E. Crosby Kindleberger for petitioner.
Mr. Jorge V. Dominguez, for respondent, submitted.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the

court.
Quinones sued the Ana Maria Sugar Co., Inc., in a district court of Porto Rico to recover damages for breach of
an oral contract to deliver sugar. Liability was denied on
the ground that plaintiff had agreed to deposit the purchase price in a bank to defendant's credit before the time
for delivery and failed to do so. The trial judge, sitting
without a jury, found on conflicting testimony that this
stipulation was part of the contract; and, as the deposit
had not been made, entered judgment for the defendant.
Quinones appealed to the Supreme Court of Porto Rico
with a bill of exceptioils which embodied all the proceedings
taken and included the evidence. The Supreme Court did
not, like the trial court, make specific findings, but it found
as a fact upon a review of conflicting evidence that the
stipulation relied upon by the company had not been made,
reversed the judgment of the trial court, and itself entered
judgment for Quinones in the full amount claimed with
interest. 24 P. R. 614. From that judgment the company
appealed to the United States Circuit Court of Appeals for
the First Circuit and assigned fifteen errors. Ten of them
charged in different forms that the findings of fact on the
main issue were erroneous; three related to the measure of
damages- the others were that the compljint (lid not set

ANA MARIA CO. v. QUINONES.
245.

Opinion of the Court.

forth a cause of action and that the facts found were
insufficient to support the judgment. The Circuit Court
of Appeals held that it 'could consider the last two errors
assigned, since they appeared on the face of the record.
It gave as the reason for declining to consider the others,
that the company had failed to submit to the SupremE,
Court any request for rulings and had taken no exception,;
to rulings made. Concluding that the complaint set forth
a good cause of action, that the Supreme Court had power
to enter the judgment for Quinones and that the facts
found supported its judgment, the Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed it. 251 Fed. Rep. 499. The case comes
here on writ of certiorari. 248 U. S. 555.
First. The rule relied upon by the Circuit Court of
Appeals for refusing to consider errors assigned is well
settled. Errors in rulings of law occurring in the course of
the trial cannot be considered on writ of error, unless
incorporated into the record by bill of exceptions, Rodriguez v. United States, 198 U. S. 156, 165, because they are
not part of the record proper, Newport News & Mississippi
Valley Co. v. Pace, 158 U. S. 36. Compare Nalle v. Oyster,
230 U. S. 165. But this rule applies only when the error
complained of is that of the trial court. It has no application when the errors assigned are wholly those alleged to
have been committed by an intermediate appellate court;
for if the intermediate court has erred in its judgment, the
error will appear by the record of that court without a bill
of exceptions. Compare Morris v. Deane, 94 Virginia, 572.
This is true, although the intermediate appellate court
has, like the Supreme Court of Porto Rico, power to review the evidence, to make new findings of fact thereon
and to enter such judgment as to it may seem proper.
See Compilation of Revised Statutes and Codes of PortoRico, § 1141, p. 241; § 5350, p. 867. Compare Andrews
v. Cohen, 221 N. Y. 148, 152- 3. No complaint was made
by the company of any action taken by the court of first

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254. U.-S..

instance, which had decided in its favor. The errors
assigned in the Circuit Court of Appeals related wholly to
action taken by the Supreme Court. The reason given by
the Circuit Court of Appeals for refusing to consider the
errors assigned was, therefore, unsound. But, for other
reasons, which will be stated, its decision was right.
Second. Under 1 35 of the Act of April 12, 1900, c. 191,
31 Stat. 77, 85, the power to review final judgments and
decrees of the Supreme Court of Porto Rico, then exercised

exclusively by this court, was limited to matters of law.
Garzot v. :De,.'Rubio, 209 U. S. 283; Gonzales v. Buist, 224
U. S. 126;Rcsaly v. Graham, 227 U. S. 584; Ochoa v.
Henandez,'230 U. S. 139; Porto Rico v. Emmanuel, 235

U. S.•251. When that act was superseded-by § 244 of the
Judici I Code writs of error and appeals from the insular
Supreme Court became aubect to the same regulations
which governed appeals firai the district courts of the
Uhited. States. Thereby this court acquired power to
re;iew questions- of fact in eVes coming to it on appeal in
equity or adm~salty, Elzabury v. Chaves, 239 U. S. 283, 285;
but in actions at law which are reviewable on writ of error,
there was no right in this: court to review the facts,
although the case was triedwithout a jury. Behn v. Campbell, 205 U. S. 403, 407. The jurisdiction to review judgments and decrees of the Porto Rico courts conferred upon
the Circuit Court of Appeals by Act of January 28, 1915,
c. 22, 38 Stat. 803, is subject to the same limitation. The
cause of action here sued on is in its nature a legal one.
The review should therefore have been prosecuted by writ
of error instead of by appeal, although the case was tried
without a jury. Oklahoma City v. McMaster, 196 U. S.
529. By reason of § 4 of the Act of September 6, 1916,
c. 448, 39 Stat. 727, this failure to adopt the proper appellate proceeding is no longer fatal. But the provision does
not abolish the distinction between writs of error and
appeals. It merely provides that the party seeking review

ANA MARIA CO. v. QUINONES.
245.

Opinion of the Court.

shall have it in the'appropriate way, notwithstanding a
mistake in choosing the mode of review. Gauzon v. CompaiiiaGeneral, etc., 245 U. S. 86.
It was not contended in the insular Supreme Cour.
that there was no legal evidence to support the finding
of the district court. Its judgment was reversed solely
because the insular Supreme Court reached a different
conclusion on the issue of fact raised by conflicting testimony. Nor was it contended in the Circuit Court of
Appeals that there was no legal evidence on which the
insular Supreme Court could properly rest its finding..
*Ten of the assignments of error were directed to findings
of fact by the Supreme Court. As these assignments of
error raised no question of law and as the Circuit Court
of Appeals had no power to review findings of fact in an.
action at law, it properly denied consideration to these
ten assignments of error.
Third. It is contended that the judgment of the Cirr
cuit Court of Appeals should be reversed because the
Supreme Court adopted an erroneous measure of damages. The contract was made August 4, 1914, and the
contract price was $3.22/2 per hundred weight. All the
sugar was to have been delivered before the close of the
following week which ended on 'August 15. The Supreme
Court allowed as damages the sum of $6,173.24 with
interest. It is insisted here that the sugar was deliverable
in instalments; that there was a gradual rise in sugar
between August 6 and August 15; and that the Supreme
Court should have determined the amount recoverable
by ascertaining the market price when each of the instalments was deliverable.
In the Circuit Court of Appeals the company likewise
assigned as error that the Supreme Court had allowed
compensation based upon the difference between the
contract price of the sugar ,and its market price at the
end of the, term fixed for delivery. This assignment en-

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

titled it to have that question considered in the Circuit
Court of Appeals, although no exception had been taken
in the Supreme Court. The Cirduit Court of Appeals
did not consider whether the Supreme Court had adopted
the proper measure of damages. It decided only that
the Supreme Court was not obliged to send the case back
to the court of first instance to fix the damages; that it
had power to do so itself upon a review of the evidence
introduced below; and that its discretion in doing this
could not be Said to have been exercised unreasonably,
since the question of damages had been tried fully below;
citing Burnet v. Desmornes, 226 U. S. 145, 148.
The difficulty with the company's contention is that
it does not appear that the Supreme Court fixed the
amount of the recovery by applying the measure of damages objected to. The contention that it did so finds some
support both in the complaint arxd in the evidence. But
the opinion which discusses the subject of damages at
length rests the allowance on other grounds. The court
found that the company had, during the month of August,
sold at $6.52 large quantities of sugar, including the lot in
question, and justified its allowance of damages on three
grounds: (1) That on the facts the profits through sale
at increased market prices were in contemplation of the
parties when the contract was entered into, and the profit
which would have been earned, being ascertainable, could
be recovered at common law; (2) that the profits were
earned by the company on sugar actually belonging to
Quinones, and that under the Civil Code of Porto Rico
he was entitled to these profits either "as damages or as
the proceeds of a resulting trust"; and (3) that if the
company wished to limit the damages by the market
price on August 6, it must have proved that other sugar
was obtainable on that day in Porto Rico, at what it
contended was the then market price, but that it had not
done so. These rulings by the Supreme Court on the

UNITED STATES v. NORTHERN PAC. RY. CO.
245.

251

Syllabus.

measure of damages were not assigned as error in the
Circuit Court of Appeals and so far as appears objection
to them was not otherwise called to its attention Under
Rule 11 of that court, 150 Fed. Rep. xxvii, errors not
assigned are to be disregarded, except that the court, in
its discretion, may notice a plain error not assigned. As
the above rulings of the Supreme Court on the measure
of damages were not assigned as errors in the Circuit
Court of Appeals and were not considered by it they cannot be insisted upon here as grounds Aor reversal. 1
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Afrmed.

UNITED STATES v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

EIGHTH CIRCUIT:
No. 88.

Argued November 11, 12, 1920.-Decided December 6, 1920.

The requirement of the Safety Appliance Acts that all trains used on
any railroad engaged in interstate commerce shall have a certain
per cent., of their cars equipped with power or train brakes under
control of the engineer, applies to "transfer trains" moving between
two yards of a railroad company, over a "transfer" track which
crosses atgrade streets and lines of independent railroad companies
where freight and passenger trains are run, and which also is used,

in part, by independent railroad companies for their freight trains.
P. 253.
A moving locomotive and cars attached are without the provision of
the act only when they are not a train; as where the locomotive is
Compare Davis v. Hines, 6 Oh. St. 473, 478; Litchtenstadt v. Rose,
98 Ill.
643; Taylor v. Pierce, 174 111.9,12; Vilsos v. Vance, 55 Ind. 584,
591.

