TROY UNION R. R. CO. v. MEALY.
Counsel for Parties.

PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK ON THE
RELATION OF THE TROY UNION RAILROAD
COMPANY v. MEALY ET AL., AS ASSESSORS,
ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 63.

Submitted October 21, 1920.-Decided November 8, 1920.

In determining whether an exemption from taxes granted by a State to
a local corporation was merely a privilege or amounted to a contract
right protected against impairment by the Federal Constitution, this
court inclines to follow the decision of the state tribunals. P. 49.
A city joined with certain railroad corporations in forming and financing
a city terminal corporation and covenanted with them all that it
would apply with them for an act exempting the terminal company
from taxation upon an amount exceeding its then capital stock, and
that, failing such legislation, it would refund the amount of city
taxes upon any greater valuation. Held, that a law passed on such
application, granting the exemption as to both city and county taxes,
and reciting that this was in accord with the city's agreement, might
properly be construed by the state courts as creating a repealable
privilege rather than a contract right to the exemption-in view of
the general attitude of the courts against tax exemptions, the parties'
own opinion that the grant was not irrevocable, as shown in a later
contract, and a power reserved by the state constitution to alter or
repeal general or special laws for the formation of corporations. P. 50.
N. Y. Laws, 1853, c.- 462; 1909, c. 201; Const. 1846, Art. VIII, 1 1.
224 N. Y. 187, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. William L. Vis8cher and Mr. Lewis E. Carr for
plaintiff in error.
Mr. G. B. WellingtOn for defendants in error,
Thomas H. Guy was also on the brief.

Mr.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
T
was a proceeding in the Supreme Court of New
York seeking by certiorari to review and set aside an
assessment of city taxes upon the relator's property at a
valuation of one million dollars; the relator oontending
that it had a contract by virtue of which the City of Troy
and the State were limited to a valuation of $30,000 for the'
purposes of the tax. A referee, a single judge, the Appellate Division of the Supreme Court and the Court of
Appeals successively have decided against the relator's
claim, but it brings the case here on the ground that an
attempt to repeal the statute upon which it bases its
immunity impairs the obligation of contracts and is void.
88 Misc. (N. Y.) 649. 179 App. Div. 951. 224 N. Y. 187.
The case is this. In 1851 it was desired to establish a
common terminal station and common tracks passing
through a portion of the City for four railroads then having
termini in Troy. An act of that year, c. 255, authorized
the City and the four roads to subscribe for the stock of a
new corporation to be formed for that purpose, and the
City to issue bonds when secured by a mortgage of the
new road to be built and by contract of the four subscribing roads. In July, 1851, the contemplated corporation
was formed with a stock of $30,000; it is the relator in this
suit. Then on December 3, 1852, an agreement was made
by the City of Troy, the Troy Union Railroad Company,
and the four other railroads, providing for carrying out
the plan, and therein the City covenanted to join in an
application to'the Legislature of New York that the new
road should be exempt from taxation upon an amount
exceeding the present amount of its capital stock, and, if
such law should not be passed, to refund the amount of the
city taxes for any valuation exceeding said present stock.
The above mentioned mortgage was executed, the four
roads gave the City their covenant of indemnity and

TROY UNION R. R. CO. v. MEALY.

49

Opinion of the Court.

47.

thereafter on June 24, 1853, the desired act of the legislature was passed. Laws of 1853, c. 462. It provided that
"for the purposes of taxation in the city of Troy, and in
the county of Rensselaer, the property of the Troy Union
Railroad Company shall be estimated and assessed (as the
common council of said city of Troy, by its contract with
said company,

.

.

. agreed that the same should be)

at the amount of the capital stock of said company, and
no more." The above mentioned covenant of the City
and this provision of the statute are the grounds upon
which the relator founds its claim.
After 1853 there was a default in the payment of the interest on the bonds that had been issued by the City under
the agreement and the City began an action to foreclose
the mortgage given by the road to secure it. Thereupon in
1858 a new contract was made between the parties concerned in which they "for the purpose of reforming the
contract [made in 1852] adopt this instead of and in place
of the said contract, which is hereby annulled." The City
of Troy agreed that if the Act of 1853 should be repealed
at any time it would join in an application to the Legislature, as in the former contract, and covenanted again that
if the desired law should not be passed it would refund
as before. The other arrangements do not need mention
here.
In 1886 and 1887 the Assessors of Troy. assessed the
Troy.Union Railroad Company for $783,984 instead of the
agreed $30,000, but it was held that the Company's
property above $30,000 was exempt. People ex. rel. Troy
Union R. R. Co. v. Carter, 52 Hun, 458. 117 N. Y. 625.
In 1909, however, the Act of 1853 was repealed. Acts of
1909, c. 201. The assessment conp laiwd of in this case
was made since this repeal.
The Court of Appeals held that the concession in the
Act of 1853 was spontaneous and belonged to the class of
privilegiafavorabilia,as it is put in Christ Church v. County

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

of Philadephia,24 How. 300, and therefore was subject to
repeal. This is a question upon which we should be slow
to differ With a decision o the New York courts with
regard to a New York corporation. It may be that too
much stress wasilaid upon the absence of a consideration
for the exemption; Wisconin & Michigan Ry. Co. v.
Powers, 11 U. S. 379, 385-:387; and that a fairly strong
argument could be made for interpreting the grant of 1853
as purporting to? be coextensive with the contract recited
in that grant, whether correctly recited or not. It may be,
if it were material, that the contract of 1858 should be
construed as. a continuance of that of 1852 as reformed
notwithstanding the habitually inaccurately used word
"annulled." United States v. McMullen, 222 U. S. 460,
471. But taking into consideration the general attitude
of the Courts toward claims of exemption, adverted
to by the, Court of Appeals, the fact that the agreement of 1859 shows that the parties concerned did not
suppose that they had an irrevocable grant, and especially
the fact that the coristitution of New York in force in
1853, provided in Article VIII, ยง 1, that all general laws
and special acts passed pursuant to that section might be
altered or repealed, ve are not prepared to say that the
decision belo was wrong. We are dealing, of course, only
with the contract supposed to be embodied in the Act of
1853. The liability of the City on its covenant to refund
taxes upon an assessment exceeding $30,000 was not
passed upon below and is not before us in this case.

Judgment atrmed.

