OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Syllabus.

LA

254 U. S.

MOTTE ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.

APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 121., Submitted December 10, 1920.-Decided January 24, 1921.
1. As an incident of its guardianship over the Osage Indians, the
United States may sue to enjoin the assertion of rights under leases
of restricted allotments obtained from members of the tribe without
conforming to applicable provisions of the statutes and valid administrative regulations, and to enjoin the negotiation of other such
unlawful leases in the future. P. 575.
2. Under the Act of June 28, 1906, concerning the Osage Indians, § 7
of which gives members the right to lease their restricted allotments
and provides that such leases "shall be subject only to the approval
of the Secretary of the Interior," the Secretary is authorized not
merely to approve or disapprove leases after execution, but to make
necessary reasonable regulations prescribing in advance as conditions to approval of leases the mode in which they shall be executed
and presented to him and the terms aad conditions they shall con,tain for the protection of the Indian lessors. Id.
3. The authority of the Secretary to make such regulations is covered
by § 12 of the act, declaring that all things necessary to carry the
act into effect and not otherwise specifically provided for shall be
done under his direction and authority; and without that section
it would be implied. P. 576.
4. Section 7 of the act, in providing that such leases shall be subject
"only" to the approval of the Secretary, distinguishes between
leases by individuals, to J1e approved by the Secretary alone, and
leases for the tribe, which, under § 3, need the sanction of the tribal
council as well. Id.
5. Under § 7 of the act, construed with §§ 3 and 6 of the Act of April 18,
1912, the approval of the Secretary is requisite to the validity of
leases of restricted lands of minor allottees or minor heirs, given by
their guardians with the sanction of the local state courts in which
the guardianships were pending. P. 577.
6. Under § 7, supra, leases of restricted land made by an Indian parent
having a certificate of competency, or by a white pareni not a

LA MOTTE v. UNITED STATES.
570.

Opinion of the Court.

member of the tribe, on behalf of minor allottees or heirs, require
the Secretary's approval. P. 578.
7. Land allotted in the right of a deceased member cannot be leased
by his heirs without the Secretary's approval if they are members
of the tribe and without certificates of competency. Id.
8. A devise of a direct or inherited restricted allotment by a will
made pursuant to § 8 of the Act of 1912, supra, and approved by
the Secretary of the Interior, operates as a conveyance of the land
free of restrictions. So held, in view of the broad language of the
section and its interpretation by Congress. Id.
9. Neither under the common law nor under the statutes of Oklahoma
may a testator impose an indefinite restriction on the right of his
devisee to alienate the land devised. P. 58%0.
10. Members of the Osage Tribe, though without certificates of competency, may lease, without the Secretary's approval, allotments
which they have purchased after such allotments had become unrestricted, since there is nothing in the Acts of 1906 and 1912, supra,
to reimpose restrictions once removed, or to subject to restrictions
all lands, however acquired, which members without such certificates
may own. Id.
11. Purchasers or lessees of unrestricted, undivided interests in Osage
allotments should be enjoined from exerting control over -.ic lands,
to the exclusion of Indian co-tenants of restricted interests; but in
this case the injunction was so broad as to prevent them from dealing with their own interests, and should be modified. Id.
256 Fed. Rep. 5, modified and affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. T. J. Leahy and Mr. C. S. Macdonald for appellants.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Nebeker and Mr. H. L.
Underwood, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, for
the United States.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the court.
This is a suit by the United States to enjoin the defendants (appellants here) from asserting or exercising any.

572

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

right under certain leases obtained from individual Osage
Indians without the approval of the $ecretaryof the Interior, and from negotiating or obtaining other leases of
the same class without conforming to statutory provisions
and administrative regulations alleged to be applicable.
The District Court granted the major part of the relief
sought and denied the rest. On cross appeals the Circuit
Court of Appeals enlarged the relief granted, but refused
a part of what was denied by the District Court. 256 Fed.
Rep. 5. The United States then acquiesced and the defendants took a further appeal to this court.
Prior to the Act of June 28, 1906, c. 3572, 34 Stat. 539,
the lands to which the suit relates were tribal lands of the
Osage Indians, and after that act were divided under its
provisions among the members of the tribe, as were also,
the triba4 funds. Each member received 160 acres designated as a homestead and approximately 500 acres designated as surplus lands. The tribal funds were divided by
placing a pro ratashare to the credit of each member or his
heirs in the United States Treasury. Except as otherwise
provided, the homestead is to be "inalienable and nontaxable for a period of twenty-five years, or during the life
of the homestead allottee," the surplus lands are to be
"inalienable for twenty-five years" and nontaxable for
three years, and the funds as distributed are to be held in
trust by the United States for twenty-five years. These
periods do not all have a common point of beginning, but
nothing turns on that here. The act contains express provision (§ 2, Seventh) that the Secretary of the Interior, in
his discretion, upon the petition of any adult member, may
issue to such member "a certificate of competency" authorizing him to sell and convey any of his surplus lands, if,
upon investigation, he is found fully competent and capable of transacting his own business and caring for his own
affairs, and that upon the issue of such certificate the surplus lands shall become subject to taxation and the mem-

LA MOTTE v. UNITED STATES.
570.

Opinion of the Court.

ber shall have "the right to manage, control, and dispose
of his or her lands [other than the homestead] the same as
any citizen of the United States." The interest on the
funds held in trust and also certain revenues and moneys
from other sources (§ 4, First and Second) are to be paid
quarterly to the members, except that in the case of minors
payments are to be made to the parents, so long as the
moneys are not misused or squandered, and where the parents are dead payments are to be made to legal guardians.
Upon the death of a member his lands, moneys, and interests" descend" to his "legal heirs, according to the laws"
of Oklahoma, with an exception not material here (§ 6).
The leasing of allotted lands is specially dealt with as
follows:
"Sec. 7. That the lands herein provided for are set
aside for the sole use and benefit of the individual members of the tribe entitled thereto, or to their heirs, as herein
provided; and said members, or their heirs, shall have the
right to use and to lease said lands for farming, grazing, or
any other purpose not otherwise specifically provided for
herein, and said members shall have full control of the
same, including the proceeds thereof: Povided, That parents of minor members of the tribe shall have the control
and use of said minors' lands, together with the proceeds.
of the same, until said minors arrive at their majority:
And provided further, That all leases given on said lands
for the benefit of the individual members of the tribe entitled thereto, or for their heirs, shall be subject only to the

approval of the Secretary of the Interior."
Besides several provisions indicating that the act is to be
executed under the supervision of the Secretary of the Interior, there is a concluding section declaring:
"See. 12. That all things necessary to-carry into effect

the provisionsof this Act not otherwise herein specifically
provided for shall be done under the authority and direction of the Secretary of the Interior."

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

An amendatory Act of April 18, 1912, c. 83, 37 Stat. 86,
by its third section, subjects the property of deceased, orphan minor, insane and some other allottees to the jurisdiction of the county courts of Oklahoma in probate matters, but with the qualification, first, "that no guardian
shall be appointed for a minor whose parents are living,
unless the estate of said minor is being wasted or misused
by such parents," and, secondly, "that no land shall be
sold or alienated under the provisions of this section without the approval of the Secretary of the Interior." This
amendatory act also contains a section dealing with disposals by will of which we shall speak presently.
In virtue of §§ 7 and 12 of the Act of 1906 the Secretary
of the Interior adopted and promulgated regulations designating the mode in which leases of restricted lands for farming or grazing purposes should be executed and brought
to his attention, indicating the terms and conditions which
should be embodied in the leases for the protection of the
Indian lessors, and informing intending lessors and lessees
that where the regulations were not complied with the
leases would not be approved.
The defendants (appellants here) are engaged in procuring leases of Osage lands for farming and grazing purposes,
especially the latter. At times the leases are procured
for their own benefit and at other times in the interest of
cattlemen who desire and need large pastures. Where
cattlemen are to be the beneficiaries, the defendants often
take the leases in their own names and agree to protect
the cattlemen against claims for trespass or damage.
Some of the leases are for homesteads, others for surplus
lands. Some are procured from adult alottees, or adult
heirs of allottees, having certificates of competency, and
some from like allottees or heirs where no such certificate
has been issued. Others are obtained from parents or
legal guardians of minor allottees or minor heirs, and still
others from devisees holding under wills approved by the

LA MOTTE v. UNITED STATES.
570.

575

Opinion of the Court.

Secretary of the Interior. Many of the leases are for restricted lands and yet are taken without conforming to
the regulations and without obtaining the Secretary's approval. But notwithstanding this, the defendants proceed
to use the lands for grazing purposes, or to enable others
to do so, as if the leases were properly obtained. The failure to conform to the statute and the regulations is not
accidental, but intentional and persistent.
The right of, the United States to maintain the suit, although challenged by the defendants, is not debatable.
The Osages have not been fully emancipated, but are still
wards of the United States. The restrictions on the disposal and leasing of their allotments constitute an important part of the plan whereby they are being conducted
from. a state of tribal dependence to one of individual independence and responsibility; and outsiders, such as the
defendants, are bound to respect the restrictions quite as
much as are the allottees and their heirs. Authority to
enforce them, like the power to impose them, is an incident
of the guardianship of the United States. That relation
and the obligations arising therefrom enable the United
States to maintain the suit, notwithstanding it is without pecuniary interest in the relief sought. Heckman v.
United States, 224 U. S. 413, 437-442; United States v.
New Orleans Pacific Ry. Co., 248 U. S. 507, 518; United
States V. Osage County, 251 U. S. 128, 133. And see
Causey v. United States, 240 U. S.399, 402.
It is insistently urged that the regulations adopted and
promulgated by the Secretary of the Interior are void and
of no effect, and therefore that no right to relief can be
predicated upon the defendants' disregard of them. The
argument advanced is that the leasing provision says
nothing about regulations; that the clause "subject only
to the approval of the Secretary of the Interior" makes
strongly against any regulations; that what is intended is
to leave the Indian free to lease in his own way and on his

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

own terms, subject to the Secretary's approval or disapproval of the lease after it is given; and that the regulations, as adopted and promulgated, unwarrantably
interfere with this freedom of action. In our opinion the
insistence is not tenable, and for the following reasons:
The fact that the leasing provision says nothing about
regulations is not important, for § 12 plainly enables the
Secretary to employ any necessary means to cArry that
provision into effect. And, even without § 12, power to
make regulations suitable to that end and consistent with
the act would be implied. United States v. Bailey, 9 Pet.
238, 254-255.
The need for some regulations is obvious. The Osages
among whom the lands were divided number about 2,000
and each member received an aggregate of approximately
660 acres, often in scattered tracts. All the lands were
restricted in the beginning and most of them probably
will remain so for several years. The leases are subjected
to the Secretary's approval or disapproval to the end that
the allottees and their heirs may be protected from their
own improvidence and from overreaching by others. Both
the lands and the Indians ae remote from the seat of
Government, and without some general and authoritative
rules for the guidance of intending lessors and lessees it is
certain that improvident and ill-advised leases would be
given and multiplied in a way which would confuse and
embarrass the Indians and greatly enhance the difficulties
attending the Secretary's supervision.
We find nothing in the leasing provision indicating that
no regulations are intended. True, the concluding proviso
declares that "all leases given on said lands for the benefit
of the individual members of the tribe entitled thereto, or
for their heirs, shall be subject only to the approval of the
Secretary of the Interior." But this means, as the context
and other parts of the act show, that leases given on restricted lands for the benefit of individual allottees, or

LA MOTTE v. UNITED STATES.
570.

Opinion of the Court.

their heirs, and not for the benefit of the tribe, shall be
subject to the approval of the Secretary of the Interior,
but need not have the sanction of the tribal council. The
word, "only," on which the defendants place much emphasis, merely aids in marking an intended distinction
between leases given -for the benefit of individuals and
those given for the benefit of the tribe, the latter, as § 3
shows, needing the sanction of the tribal council as well as
the approval of the Secretary of the Interior.
Without doubt the regulations prescribed operate to
restrp~n the Indian from leasing in his own way and on
his own terms, but this is not a valid objection. If there
were no regulations, the-disapproval of a lease satisfactory
to him would work a like restraint. Manifestly some restraint is intended, for the leasing provision does not permit the Indian to lease as he pleases, but only with the
Secretary's approval.
The regulations appear to be consistent with the
statute,
appropriate to its execution, and in themselves reasonable.
It follows from what has been said that in the main the
action of both courts below was correct; that is to say, the
defendants were properly enjoined from asserting or exercising any right under leases of restricted lands given by
individual Osages without the approval of the Secretary
of the Interior, and from negotiating or procuring other
leases of the same class without conforming to the regulations prescribed.
Several questions relating to particular leases or lands
remain to be noticed.
The defendants have leases of restricted lands, belonging to minor allottees or minor heirs, which were given by
guardians with the sanction of the local courts in which the
guardianships were pending, but were not approved by the
Secretary of the Interior. The District Court ruled that
the Secretary's approval was not required and the Circuit
Court of Appeals held to the contrary. We take the latter

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

view. It is supported by the comprehensive words of the
concluding proviso of the leasing provision and is strengthened by the second qualification found in § 3 of the amendatory. Act of 1912, under which the local courts obtain
probate jurisdiction over the property of such minors, and
by the proviso in § 6 of that act relating to the partition
of inherited lands.
Some of the defendants' leases of restricted lands were
given by parents on behalf of minor allottees or minor heirs,
-one of the parents having a certificate of competency
and the other being of white blood and not a member of the
tribe. Both courts ruled that the Secretary's approval was
essential, and rightly so, as we think. In giving such leases
the parents act for the child, not for themselves, and approval by the Secretary is required by reason of the child's
status, as would be true if the lease were given by a
guardian.
One of the leases held by the defendants is for lands
which, in the course of the division, were selected and
allotted in the right of a member then deceased. Under
the statute the lands passed to the member's heirs and the
lease was procured from them. They are members and
without certificates of competency. The lease has not
been approved by the Secretary. Both courts regarded
the lands as restricted and the lease as requiring the Secretary's approval. That view has since been sustained
by us in Kenny v. Miles, 250 U. S. 58.
Two leases, not approved by the Secretary, are for lands
which passed to devisees under wills approved by that
officer and duly admitted to probate. Both testators were
adult members of the tribe, not mentally incompetent.
One was an allottee and the other the sole heir of a deceased
allottee. In their hands the lands were restricted. The
defendants insist that under the approved wills the lands
passed to the devisees freed from the restrictions. If so,
the leases did not require the Secretary's approval. Both

LA MOTTE v. UNITED STATES.
570.

Opinion of the Court.

courts held that the lands continued to be restricted. The
question is not free from difficulty, but we think it must
be ruled the other way. Strictly speaking a devisee takes
under the will as an instrument of conveyance, and not
by descent as an heir. This form of alienation was within
the restriction imposed by the Act of 1906, Taylor v. Parker, 235 U. S. 42, but the amendatory Act of 1912 relaxed
the restriction by declaring:
"Sec. 8. That any adult member of the Osage Tribe of
Indians not mentally incompetent may dispose of any or
all of his estate, real, personal, or mixed, including trust
funds, from which restrictions as to alienation have not
been removed, by will, in accordance with the laws of the
State of Oklahoma: Provided, That no such will shall be
admitted to probate or have any validity unless approved
before or after the death of the testator by the Secretary
of the Interior."
This provision is broadly written, is in terms applicable
to restricted lands and funds, and enables the Indian to
dispose of all or any part of his estate by will, in accordance
with the state law, if his will be approved by the Secretary.
True, it does not say that a disposal by an approved will
shall put an end to existing restrictions, but that is an admissible, if not the necessary, conclusion from its words.
After its enactment the Secretary of the Interior construed
it as having that meaning, and it was administered accordingly in that department up to the time of this suit. And
that Congress intended it should have that meaning is at
least inferable from a general act of the next session respecting wills by Indian allottees and their approval by the
Secretary (c. 55, 37 Stat. 678); for that act, while providing that "the approval of the will and the death of the
testator shall not operate to terminate the trust or restrictive period," expressly excepted the Osages from its
reach. These matters apparently were not brought to the
attention of the courts below. We regard them as of suffi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

cient weight to put the question at rest. In one of the wills
the testator attempted to impose an indefinite restraint on
the devisee's right to alienate the land; but, whether the
attempt be tested by the common law or by the local statutes, it plainly was of no effect. We modify the decree by
excluding this class of leases from the injunction.
Some of the leases are for lands which were purchased
by the lessors after the lands in regular course had become
unrestricted. Because the lessors were members of the
tribe and without certificates of competency the Circuit
Court of Appeals held that the leases were subject to the
Secretary's approval. The District Court had held the
other way. We think the District Court was right. There
is no provision in the Act of 1906 or that of 1912 which
reimposes restrictions after they have been removed, or
which subjects to restrictions all lands, however acquired,
which'a member without a certificate of competency may
own. See McCurdy v. United States, 246 U. S. 263. The
restrictions reach such lands only as were allotted to the
member or were inherited by him from another in whose
hands they were restricted. Many members who are
without certificates of competency have incomes and property which they are free to deal with as they choose.
Some have purchased from white men having full title and
an undoubted right to sell. See Levindale Lead Co. v. Coleman, 241 U. S. 432. As to this class of leases we so modify
the decree that the injunction shall not include them.
Through purchases or leases from heirs who have certificates of competency, or are white men and not members
of the tribe, the defendants have come lawfully to own, or
have leases of, undivided interests in particular lands the
remaining interests in which continue to be restricted;
and the defendants are using or exerting control over these
lands to the exclusion of the Indian owners of the restricted interests. This use or control is colorably based on
unapproved leases and other forms of consent given by

JOURNAL & TRIBUNE CO. i,. UNITED STATES.
570.

581

Syllabus.

the other owners which are without legal sanction. Both
courts rightly condemned these acts and portions of the
injunction are directed against them. But as to. some of
the lands the injunction is open to an objection which the
defendants urge against it, in that it prohibits them from
"in any maner dealing with said lands, or any part
thereof, without the consent of the Secretary of the Interior." This prohibition would prevent them from selling
their unrestricted interests, although that may not have
been intended. It should be confined to the restricted
undivided interests of the Indian owners; and we modify
the decree accordingly.
Subject to the modifications here made the decree is
affirmed.
Decree modified and affirmed.

THE

JOURNAL

AND TRIBUNE

COMPANY

v.

UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 86. Argued November 10, 11, 1920.-Decided January 24, 1921.
1. The amount in controversy in a suit in the Court of Claims, for
the purposes of an appeal to this court (Jud. Code, § 242) is determined from the petition as amended, and is the whole amount
claimed without deduction for a partial defense. P. 584.

2. Where shipments of newspapers which their owner supposed were
going by express at lower rates were in fact sent by mail, at higher
but legal postal rates, through oversight of its' agents, held that
the United States was under no implied contract to reimburse it.
P. 585.
53 Ct. Clms. 612, affirmed.

Tim case is stated in the opinion.

