UNITED STATES v. LEHIGH VALLEY R. R. CO.
251.

255

Syllabus.

up trains. Congress has not imposed upon courts applying the act any duty to weigh the dangers incident to
particular operations; and we have no occasion to consider the special dangers incident to operating trains under
the conditions here presented.
The judgment of the United States Circuit Court of
Appeals is
Reversed.

UNITED STATES v. LEHIGH VALLEY RAILROAD
COMPANY ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 1. Argued October 12, 13, 1916; restored to docket for reargument May 21, 1917; reargued November 7, 1917; restored to docket
for reargument June 10, 1918; submitted October 7, 1919; restored
to docket for oral argument May 17, 1920; reargued October 5, 1920.
-Decided December 6, 1920.
Prior to the enactment of the Anti-Trust Law, the Lehigh Valley
Railroad Company, in combination with the Lehigh Valley Coal
Company, a subsidiary created and operated as a mere agency or
instrumentality of the Railroad Company, deliberately enterei upon
the policy of purchasing and leasing the anthracite coal lrhnds in
Pennsylvania tributary to its extensive railroad system, and of buying up the stocks of corporations owning such lands, for the purpose
of controlling the mining, transportation and gale of the coal to be
obtained therefrom and of preventing and suppressing compatition,
especially in the transportation and sale of such coal in interstate
commerce. This policy was continued after the enactment of
the Anti-Trust Act, with the result that. a practical monopoly was
attained of the transportation and sale of the anthracite derived
from the lands tributary to the railroad, the amount so transported
coming to exceed one-fifth of the entire annual anthracite production

of the country. Considering this result, the methods employed in

256

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Counsel for the United States.

254 U. S.

achieving it, and the great volume of production and trade involved,
as compared with the restricted area of the whole anthracite territ5ry,
held, that the combination effected a restraint of trade or commerce
among the States and constituted an attempt to monopolize and
an actual monopolization of a part of such trade or commerce in
anthracite coal; within the meaning of the first and second sections
of the Anti-Trust Act. P. 269.
For the purpose of divesting itself in appearance of interest in the coal
transported, the Railroad Company, with the Coal Company,
brought about the creation and organization of a Sales Company,
whose stock was subscribed for by stockholders of the Railroad
Company only, with the aid of a dividend declared by that company for the purpose, and whose management was largely made
up of former agents and officials of the Railroad and Coal Companies;
the Sales Company, thereupon, in pursuance of the plan, made, in
form, an agreement with the Coal Company, for a term of ten years
but subject to termination by either party on six months' notice,
by which the Coal Company agreed to sell and the Sales Company to
buy all coal mined or produced by the Coal Company, at prices mostly
fixed at a specifiga percentage of New York prices, and by which
the Coal Company agreed to lease all of its facilities, structures and
trestles to the Sales Company, and the Sales Company was inhibited
from buying any coal except from the Coal Company and from selling any not so purchased. Held, that the Sales Company was neither
an independent buyer nor a free agent, and that the contract. being
a mere device to evade the comm;dities claifse f the Interstate
Commerce Act, and obnoxious also to the Anti-Trust Act, was void.
United States v. Delaware, Lackawanna & Western R. R. Co., 238
U. S. 516. P. 264.
225 Fed. Rep. 399, reversed.

THE case is stated inthe opinion. A motion to modify
the decree was made and denied at this term.

Post, 617.

The Solicitor General for the United States.'
At the first and second hearings the case was argued by Mr. Solicitor
General Davis and Mr. Assistant to the Attorney General Todd. Mr.
Attorney General Gregory and Mr. Arthur W. Machen, Jr., Special
Assistant to the Attorney General, were also on the brief. At the third
hearing the case was submitted by Mr. Attorney General Palmer and
Mr. ,Solicitor General King, on an additional brief.

UNITED STATES v. LEHIGH VALLEY R. R. CO.
255.

257

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Edgar If. Boles for Lehigh Valley Railroad Company, Delaware, Susquehanna & Schuylkill Rairoad
Company, and the individual defendants. 1
Mr. F. W. Wheaton, with whom Mr. Allan McCulloh
was on the briefs, for Lehigh Valley Coal Company and
Coxe Brothers & Company, Inc.
Mr. Nicholas W. Hacker, with whom Mr. Everett Warren
was on the briefs, for Lehigh Valley Coal Sales Company.
Mr. E. V. B. Getty filed a brief on behalf of the G. B.
Markle Company.
Mr. John Hampton Barnes and Mr. Elihu Root, Jr., filed
a brief on behalf of the Girard Trust Company.
MI. JUSTICE CLARKE delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree entered in a suit to dissolve the intercorporate relations existing at the time it
was commenced in March, 1914, between the defendant
corporations, other than Girard Trust Company, for the
reason, it is averred, that they were so united that they
constituted a combination in restraint of interstate trade
and commerce in anthracite coal and aA attempt to monopolize and an actual monopolization of a part of such
commerce, in violation of the Anti-Trust .At of Congress
of July 2, 1890, c. 647, 26 Stat. 209; and alsQ'for the alleged
reason that the Lehigh Valley Railroad Cn pany was
transporting over its lines of railway .-nthracite coal in
which it had an interest, in violation of the Commodities
Clause of the Act of June 29, 1906, c. 3591, 34 Stat. 585.
At the first hearing the case was argued by Mr. John G. Johnson
and Mr. Edgar H. Boles. At the second hearing it was -argued by

Mr. Edgar H. Boles, who also submitted at the third hearing.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

It will be necessary to consider only the relations and
activities of the Lehigh Valley Railroad Company, hereinafter designated the Railroad Company, the Lehigh Valley
Coal Company, designated the Coal Company, and the
Lehigh Valley Coal Sales Company, designated the Sales
C-ompany.
A condensed history, chiefly admitted, of the organization, stock ownership and conduct of these three companies,
and the application to the facts thus developed of fully
established principles of law, will be decisive of the case.
The limited area of anthracite-producing territory, its
relation to the interstate transportation system and
markets of our country and the various attempts to monopolize and control the great railway tonnage originating
therein have all been so often described in reported cases,
that they need not be repeated here in detail. I
It will suffice for our present purpose to say that the
anthracite-producing territory, is very restricted in area, it
all being within seven counties of eastern Pennsylvania
with the known deposits underlying only 309,760 acres of
land. For trade purposes it is divided into three fields, the
northerly is called the Wyoming field, the next southerly
the Lehigh or Middle field and the southerly the Schuylkill
field. The lines of the Railroad Company extend into the
Wyoming and Lehigh fields but to only one colliery in the
Schuylkill field. Much the greater part of its tonnage is
derived from the Wyoming field, and four-fifths of it moves
in interstate commerce.
The Railroad Company in 1913 owned 1438 miles of
main line and a total trackage of 3354 miles, its capital
1

United States v. Reading Co., 183 Fed. Rep. 427; United States v.

Reading Co., 226 Fed. Rep. 229; United States v. Delaware & Hudson
Co., 213 U. S. 366; United,States v. Lehigh Valley R.R. Co., 220 U. S.
257; United States v. Delaware, Lackawanna & Western R. R. Co.,

238 U. S. 516; United States v. Reading Co., 226 U., S. 324; United
States v. Reading Co., 253 U. S. 26.

UNITED STATES v. LEHIGH VALLEY R. R. CO.
255.

259

Opinion of the Court.

stock was $60,600,000, its funded debt was $85,800,000, its
total assets had a book value of $182,700,000, but a much
greater actual value, and it carried a larger tonnage of
anthracite coal than any other railroad in the countryover 13,000,000 tons in 1913, this being 18.84% of the total
69,000,000 tons shipped over all railroads in that year.
In 1864 the Railroad Company by merger with a coal
company acquired a small acreage of anthracite-containing
land and thereupon added the mining, shipping and selling
of coal to its duties as a carrier.
The annual reports of the Railroad Company show that,
as early as 1868, it entered upon the policy of acquiring by
purchase and lease the control of as much as possible of the
anthracite coal-containing lands tributary to its lines of
railroad for the purpose of preventing, or, when it had
become established of suppressing, competition in the
carrying of coal over its interstate lines to interstate
markets.
Thus the annual report of the Company for 1868 shows
that, it having been determined that it was of "the utmost
importance" to the future welfare of the company to secure" control of tonnage for our roads from regions having
other outlets to market," the Company, by merger of two
coal companies, obtained coal lands which secured to it
the whole trade of the Hazelton Coal field and "the withdrawal from competition" of a business so large as to
greatly strengthen the "future prospects of our road."
In 1869 the policy of securing a proportion of the coal
trade from"each region by the purchase of interests in
companies owning lands on or near the several branches of
the company was approved and "continued."
In 1871 it is reported, "We have continued to acquire
interests in coal lands situated in our various regions."
In 1872, after detailing the purchase for $2,000,000 of
5800 acres of land having upon it ten collieries, the report
of the Company declares that, 'Should there be a corre-

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

-sponding increase for a year or two more the total consump-.
tion will so nearly equal the full capacity of the mines for
production as to render unnecesmaa all attempts to regulate
or control the trade."
After reciting that a contract had been entered into
granting to the Delaware, Susquehanna & Schuylkil
Railroad Company trackage rights to tidewater the
report of the Railroad Company for 1894 continues, saying
that there is thereby assured to the Company "an'im portant traffic
for which several outlets existedand which had been in contention for some time previously.
It also removed an incentive to the construction of, further
new lines into the territory tributary to the Lehigh Valley
System."
Although n 1875 it caused the Coal Company (hereinafter discussed) to be organized for the purpose of taking
title to coal lands then owned or which might thereafter be
purchased, and although the Anti-Trust Law was enacted
in 1890, nevertheless, the Railroad Company continued its
policy of purchasing for control and from time to time it
icquired and took in its own name the title to extensive,
:tracts of coal lands and to stocks in coal companies. Thus
In 1885 it acquired the entire capital stock of the Wyoming
Valley Coal Company, the owner of 1657 acres of anthracite land, in 1900 it acquired the entire capital stock of the
Westwood Coal Company, a considerable owner of anthracite land, 'in 1901 it acquired the entire capital stock of -the
.Connell Coal Company, and in the same year the entire
capital stock of the Seneca;CoaLompany, the owner of
1308 acres of anthracite land.
In the years prior to 1905 the Railroad Company made
a number of other purchases of coal land, but in that year
it made its largest single and most significant purchase,
when it acquired, for the sum of $17,440,000, all of the
capital stock of Coxe Brothers & Company, Inc. This
company was the largest independent coal operator then

UNITED STATESv. LEHIGH VALLEY R. R. CO.
255.-

2&1

Oifpion df the Court.

on the line of the Railroad Company, and its production
for '1905 exceeded 1,100,000 tons. It not only owned
extensive areas of coal land, on which were located eight
collieries, but it was also owner of all of the capital stock of
the Delaware, Susquehanna & Schuylkill Railroad Company, which owned fifty miles of railway which .served
other large independent mines in addition to those of Coxe
'Brothers & Company, Inc. This railroaJ had connections
with the Reading, Pennsylvania and New Jersey Central
lines, which were taken up or fell into disuse when the
-control of it passed to the defendant Lehigh Valley Railroad. Company. The 'Railroad Company -continued to
own all the capital stock of Coxe Brothers & Company,
Inc., to the time the testimony was taken in this suit and
it is admitted that that company then held in fee or under
long lease 36,490 acres of land in the anthracite field,
7,169 acres of which were known to contain anthracite
coal. This purchase was confessedly made to prevent
the diversion of traffic to other lines, and, while the company was continued in form as a separate corporation, the
officers and directors of the Coal Company were made its
officers and directors, and in June following the year of the
purchase its directors by resolution provided that the net,
earnings of the company should be paid to the Railroad
Company without the formality of declaring a dividend,
and this practice continued until 1911.
Thus, this important Coal Company and its railroad
..became a mere coal-producing and transporting agency of
the defendant Railroad Company.
In 1874 the State of Pennsylvania adopted a constitution containing the provision that:
"No incorporated company doing the business of a
-common carrier shall, directly or indirectly, prosecute or
engage in mining or manufacturing articles for transportation over its works." (Constitution of Pennsylvania,
'1874, Art. 17, ยง 5.)

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

Prior to this time the Railroad Company had been a
large owner, miner, shipper and seller, as well as carrier, of
anthracite coal and, as if for the purpose of complying with
the new constitution of the State from which it derived its
franchise, it caused the Lehigh Valley Coal Company to
be created in 1875 by the consolidation of two smaller
companies. This company, which was organized for the
purpose of taking title to coal lands and stocks in coal companies, then owned or thereafter to be acquired by the
Railroad Company, and to conduct the business of mining, shipping and selling coal, had an original capital of
$650,000, which was afterwards increased to $1,965,000,
all of which has been owned by the Railroad Company
from the beginning. Coal-producing lands and stocks in
various coal companies were purchased from time to time
by the Railroad Company, directly or through advances of
money to the new coal company for that purpose, title
thereto being taken in the Coal Company, with the result:
that when this suit was commenced that company admitted itself to be the owner of 54,229 acres of land in the
anthracite-producing 'regions, of which 24,748 acres were
located along the lines of the Railroad Company; that
the funded debt of the company had become $20,000,000;
and that the value of its assets amounted to about $35,000,000. Eight and one-half million tons of anthracite, of the
thirteen millions carried by the Railroad Company in 1913,
were produced by this Coal Company and by Coxe Brothers & Company, Inc., owned, as we have seen, by the Railroad Company. The combined acreage of lands owned by
the Coal Company and by Coxe Brothers & Company, Inc.,
is admitted to be 90,719 acres, of which 61,238 acres are
located along the lines of the Railroad Company. The
annual reports of the Coal Company show that in 1903
56.77% of the coal transported over the Railroad was
produced by the Coal Company and its affiliated companies; that in 1906 the percentage produced and pur-

UNITED STATES v. LEHIGH VALLEY R. R. CO.
255.

263

Opinion of the Court.

chased was 85.25% of that transported; and in 1907 it was
87.11%. The Interstate Commerce Commission found
that in 1908 the company controlled 95% of the tonnage
moving over its line to tidewater. Meeker & Co. v.
Lehigh Valley R. R. Co., 211. C. C. 129, 154.
The Railroad Company and the Coal Company had
usually the same president, secretary, treasurer and auditor, and the latter company admits, as it must, that the
Railroad Company "as the owner of stock controls and
long since has been controlling the election of its directors." The Railroad Company constantly advanced
large sums of money to the Coal Company for the purchase of property and for operating capital. The total of
these advances to the year 1892 exceeded $15,500,000,
which amount, however, was reduced by operations of the
Coal Company to $11,500,000. The Coal Company never
paid any dividends, its earnings being frankly treated as
those of the Railroad Company, and the financial and
other relations between the two companies were so intimate and interlaced that in argument it is admitted that
"in the last analysis the assets of the Coal Company are
the assets of the Railroad Company."
There is much more in the record to like effect, but sufficient has been stated to make it clear beyond controversy,
that the Coal Company was organized and conducted as a
mere agency or instrumentality of the Railroad Company,
for the purpose of avoiding the legal infirmity which it was
thought might inhere in the owning of coal lands and in
the conducting of coal mining, shipping and selling operations by the Railroad Company, and that the policy of
purchasing and leasing coal lands tributary to its lines for
the purpose of controlling interstate trade and commerce
in anthracite coal and of preventing and suppressing competition therein, was deliberately entered upon by the
Railroad Company, and in combination with its agency,
the Coal Company, was consistently pursued, with in-

264

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

creasing energy epd scope after the passage of the AntiTrust Act, until the commencement of this suit, unless
these purposes and results, in point of law, were modified
and cured by thie organization in 1912 of the Sales Company and by the functions which it performed-which
remain to be considered.
On January 11, 1912, the board of directors of the
Railroad Company requested the directors of the Coal
Company "to consider the propriety of organizing a coal
sales company" and of entering into a contract with it
when formed "for a limited time" for the purchase and
sale by it "of the coal mined, purchased and owned by the
Coal Company." The board also requested that the privilege of subscribing for the stock of the new company be
extended, "not to the Railroad Company, but, pro rata, to
the common and preferred stockholders of the Railroad
Company." As if anticipating compliance with its request
on the part of the Coal Company, of which it owned all of
the stock, the officers of the Railroad Company were
authorized at the same meeting of the board to take such
action and make such conveyances as might be deemed
necessary or advantageous in perfecting the sales arrange
ment with the new company to be organized, and in aid of
the enterprise a dividend of ten per cent. on the stock of
the Railroad Company was declared, payable on February 26, which amounted in the aggregate to $6,060,800.
On the same day the board of directors of the Coal
Company resolved: that the new Sales Company should be
organized, as requested by the Railroad Company, with a
capital stock of $10,000,000, but that only $6,060,800 of -it
should be issued; that when the new company was formed
the Coal Company should, "if possible," contract with it
for a "linite l time" for the sale to it "of allcoal which
shall be mined, purchased, owned or acquired" by the
Coal Company duriiig the tern of the proposed contract,
so that the title to such coal should vest in the Sales

UNITED STATES v. LEHIGH VALLEY R. R. CO.
255.

265

Opinion of the Court.

Company. "before the transportation thereof shall be
commenced."
The privilege of subscription to the capital stock of the
new company was restricted to the stockholders of the
Railioad Company.
The Sales Company was promptly organized and the
minutes of the company show that slightly less than 97%
of the stock was subscribed for by stockholders of the
Railroad Company.
The Sales Company had seven diredtors. One of these,
J. W. Skeele, who was also elected president, had been
general sales agent of the Coal Company; another, W. R.
Evans, had been assistant to the general sales agent of the
Coal Company; another, L. D. Smith, was a director of the
Railroad Company, and a fourth, Paul Moore, was a son
of a large stockholder in the Railroad Company. The
vice president of the company, G. N. Wilson, had been
general auditor of the Railroad Company, and the treasurer, W. J. Burton, had been employed as assistant
secretary of the Coal Company.
It is too plain for discussion that With a company thus
organized and officered, the making of : contract by the
Coal Company for the sale of all of its coal to theSales
Company was, in substance and effect, making.a contract
with itself, the terms of which it could determine in its
discretion.
Immediately, after the organization of the Sales Company, the anticipated contract between that company and
the Coal Company -for the purchase of all the coal which
the latte, might mine or purchase was~ entered into and
bears dat e March 1, 1912. This contract was to continue
for ten years unless terminated in the manner which it
provides for, and its terms are so nearly identical with the
earlier Lackawanna contract, which is considered in United
State8 v. Delaware, Lackawanna & Western R. R. Co., 238
U. S. 516, \that the judge who tried this case below, with

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

entire propriety, says that the differences between the two
are ,"wholly unsubstantial" (225 Fed. Rep. 401). This
court held that the contract in the Lackawanna Case was
void because violative of the provisions of the Anti-Trust
Act and the Commodities Clause of the Act to Regulate
Commerce.
The discussion of the Lackawanna contract is so full and
satisfactory in 238 U. S. 516, that it would not serve any
useful purpose to comment in detail upon the contract
which we have here. It will suffice to say that the provisions of the Lackawanna contract, which were clearly
determinative of the former decision by this court, are
plainly the same in substance, and almost exactly the
same in form, as those in the contract we are considering,
viz: The agreement (1) of the Coal Company to sell and of
the Sales Company to buy all of the coal mined by the Coal
Company from lands owned or leased by it, together with
all coal which it might purchase; (2) that the prices to be
paid for the more important grades of coal shall be sixtyfive per cent. of the New York prices-the two contracts
are in precisely the same words in this respect; (3) that,
with negligible exceptions, the Sales Company is to sell no
other coal, for itself or for any other, than that "purchased" from the Coal Company; (4) that the Coal Company shall lease all of its facilities, structures and trestles
to the Sales Company; (5) that either party shall have the
right to abrogate and cancel the contract upon giving to
the other six months' notice of its desire so to do; (6) that
the Sales Company shall not buy coal except from the
Coal Company-a provision which excludes the Sales
Company, potentially a strong competitor, from the
market. The Coal Company purchased 2,960,000 tons of
coal in 1911 in addition to that which it mined.
These are the contract provisions which led this court, in
the former case, to hold that a corporation organized and
circumstanced as is the Sales Company which we have

UNITED STATES v. LEHIGH VALLEY R. R. CO.
255.

267

Opinion of the Court.

here,---subject to be stripped at the will of another of all of
its business and of all its facilities for carrying on the business for which it was incorporated-was neither an "independent buyer nor a free agent."
Being entirely satisfied with the reasoning upon which
the Lackawanna Case proceeds to its conclusion, we hold
now, as it was there in principle held: that the purchase in
form by the Sales Company did not so dissociate the Railroad Company from the transportation of coal in which it
was interested as to meet the requirements of the law, that
the contract, nominally of purchase, was so calculated to
restrain interstate trade as to be obnoxious to the AntiTrust Act of Congress, and that for this reason it is unlawful and void.
-It will be of service in determining the purposes of the
defendant Railroad Company with its corporate subsidiaries in the activities thus discussed, to recall the history
of the defendant Railroad Company, as it appears in the
decisions of this and of other courts.
In 1892 the defendant Railroad Company and the
Central Railroad Company of New Jersey leased their
lines of railway for the term of 999 years to the Reading
Railroad Company, a parallel competing carrier, extensively engaged in mining, marketing and selling anthracite
coal. This combination, had it become operative, would
have gone far toward monopolizing the interstate transportation and trade in anthracite coal of our entire country,
but all operations under the lease of the Central Railroad
Company of New Jersey were enjoined by theNew Jersey
courts, for the. reason that it was deemed to be in restraint of trade, against public policy and calculated to partially iestroy competition in the production and sale of
anthracite coal, a staple commodity of the State. Stockton v. Central R. R. Co., 50 N. J. Eq. 52. Thereupon
the lease of defendant's property was abandoned and
wirtendered.

. OCTOBER TERM,' 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U.S.

Six years later, in 1898, the defendant Railroad Company combined with the Reading and four other railway
companies to contribute a large sum of money, which was
successfully used to prevent the construction of a projected, competing line of railroad from the anthracite
ftelds to tidewater. Of this enterprise this court said:
"We are in entire accord with the view of the court below
in holding' that the transaction involved a concerted
scheme and combination for the purpose of restraining
coxznmerce among the States in plain violation of the Act
of Congress of July 2,1890." United State8 v. Reading Co.,
226 U. S. 324, 355.
Four years later, in 1902, the defendant Railroad Company united with the Reading and four other anthracite
carriers in a combination to control the entire tonnage of
coal produced by independent operators along the lines of
their respective railways. The device this time resorted to
was a contract to purchase all the coal produced by inde-pendent mines, then opened or which might thereafter be
opened by the vendors, and to pay therefor sixty-five per
cent. of the market price prevailing at tidewater points at
New York, to be computed from month to month by an
arbitrator-to be selected by agreement. These contracts
were elaborately considered and unsparingly condemned
by this court in the case which is cited, and the conclusion
reached was that the defendants in that case had unlawfully combined, by and through the instrumentality of the
sixty-five per cent. contract, for the purpose of controlling
the sale at tidewater of the independent output of anthracite coal. The contracts were declared to be unlawful and
were ordered cancelled. 226 U. S. 370, 371, 373.
In 1911, in Meeker & Co. v. Lehigh Valley R. R. Co., 21
I. C. C. 129, 154, 163, the Interstate Commerce Commission held that the only line of demarkation between the
Lehigh Valley Railroad Company and the Lehigh Valley
Coal Company was one of bookkeeping; that the Rail-

UNITED STATES v. LEHIGH VALLEY R. R. CO.
255.

269

Opinion of the Court.

road Company had "monopolized the coal field served by
it" and that it had been guilty of unjust discrimination
and of charging unreasonable rates for which reparation
was awarded. 23 I. C. C. 480. This decision was sustained by this court in Meeker & Co. v. Lehigh Valley R. R.
Co., 236 U. S. 412.
And yet again, in 1915, the Interstate Commerce Commission, after an investigation extending over three years,
in which the defendant Railroad Company and all other
initial carriers of anthracite were parties, held that the
rates charged by the defendant and other carriers to tidewater and to 'certain interior points were unreasonable;
that by trackage and other arrangements they had'extended advantages to their subsidiary coal companies, to
the prejudice of other shippers; and that concessions as
obnoxious as "direct cash rebates" had been made to such
coal companies. In the Matter of Rates, Practice, Rules,
and Regulations Governing the Transportationof Anthracite
Coal, 35 I. C. C. 220.
This history of almost twenty-five years casts an illuminating light upon the intent and purpose with which
the combination here assailed was formed and continued.
Standard Oil Co. v. United Sthtes, 221 U. S. 1, 76.
Without further comment, this discussion of the record
requires us to conclude that it is clearly established that
prior to the enactment of the Anti-Trust Act, the Railroad
Company, in combination with its coal company subsidiary, deliberately entered upon a policy of making extensive purchases of anthracite land tributary to the
Railroad Company's lines, for the purpose of controlling
the mining, transportation and sale of coal to be obtained
therefrom and of preventing and suppressing competition,
especially in the transportation and sale of such coal in
interstate commerce, and that this policy was continued
after the passage of the Anti-Trust Act with' increasing
energy and tenacity of purpose, with the result that a

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

practical monopoly was attained of the transportation
and sale of anthracite coal derived from such lands.
The area of the anjthracite territory is so restricted that
to thus obtain control of the supply of such coal on a great
system of railway (the amount transported exceeded onefifth*of the entire production of the country for the year
before this suit was commenced) by a combination of
corporations; such as we have here, and by such methods
as we have seen were employed, effected a restraint of
trade or commerce among the several States and constituted an attempt to monopolize and an actual monopolization of a part of such trade or commerce in anthracite coal, clearly within the meaning of the first and second
sections of the Anti-Trust Act as they have frequently
been interpreted by this court. StandardOil Co. v. United
States, 221 U. S. 1, 61; New York, New Haven & Hartford
R. R. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 200 U. S.
361, 392, 393; United States v. Union Pacific R. R. Co.,
226 U. S. 61; InternationalHarvester Co. v. Missouri, 234
U. S.199, 209; United States v. Delaware, Lackawanna &
Western R. R. Co., 238 U. S.516, 533; United States v.
Reading Co., 253 U. S.26.
Since we have. also found that the contract between the
Coal Company and the Sales Company was a mere device
to evade the Commodities Clause of the Interstate Commerce Act and therefore void, it results that the decree'
of the District Court must be reversed and the case
remanded with instructions to enter a decree, in conformity with this opinion, dissolving the combination effected
through the intercorporate relations subsisting between
the Lehigh Valley Railroad Company, the Lehigh Valley
Coal Company, Coxe Brothers & Company, Inc., the
Delaware, Susquehanna & Schuylkill Railroad Company.
and the Lehigh Valley Coal Sales Company, with such provisions for the disposition of all shares of stock, bonds,
or other- evidences of indebtedness, and of all property

'UNITED STATES v. LEHIGH VALEY R."F. CO.
255.

WimT,

271

Ch. J., and Hr4,Ms J., concurring.

of any character, f any bne of said corpanies -owned or
in any manner controlled'byany other.of them as may
be necessary to establish their entire independence of aid

from each other. The contract of March 1, 1912. between'
the Coal Company and the Sales Company must be
decreed to be void and all contract relations between ,the
two companiesenjoined which would serve in any manner
to render the Sales Company not entirely free to extend
its business of buying and selling coal where and from
and to whom it'chooses with entire freedom aid independence, so that it may in effect, as well as in f6lm, become
an independent dealer in coal, and free to actin competition, if it desires, with the defendant Coal. Company or
Railroad Company.
As to the New York & Middle Coal Field Railroad &
Coal Company, the G. B. Markle Company, theGirard
Trust Company and the individual defendants, the bill
must be dismissed.
Reversed and remanded with instructions to enter a decree
in conformity with this opinion.

and MR. JUSTCE HOLMES, while if
they exercised an independent judgment would be for
affirmance, nevertheless concur in the 'conclusion- now
announced by the court because they consider that they
are so constrained to do in virtue of the controlling effect
of the previous decisions in the Lackawanna and Reading
Cases cited in the opinion of the court.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE

MR. JusTicE MCREYNOLIS and MR. JusTICE BRAN-

did not take part'in the consideration and decision
of this case.
DEIS

