HALL v. PAYNE.
325.

Syllabus.

to have put into that category. Compare Schaefer v.
United States, 251 U. S. 466, 494, note.
As the Minnesota statute is in my opinion invalid because it interferes with federal functions and with the right
of a citizen of the United States to discuss them, I see no
occasion to consider whether it violates also the Fourteenth Amendment. But I have difficulty in believing
that the liberty guaranteed by the Constitution, which has
been held to protect against state denial the right of an
employer to discriminate against a workman because he is
a member of a trade union, Coppage v. Kansas, 236 U. S.
1, the right of a business man to conduct a private employment agency, Adams v. Tanner, 244 U. S. 590, or to contract outside the State for insurance of his property,
Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165 U. S. 578, 589, although the
legislature deems it inimical to the public welfare, does not
include liberty to teach, either in the privacy of the home
or publicly, the doctrine of pacifism; so long, at least, as
Congress has not declared that the public safety demands
its suppression. I cannot believe that the liberty guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment includes only liberty
to acquire and to enjoy property.

UNITED STATES ON THE RELATION OF HALL v.
PAYNE, SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 95.

Argued November '17, 1920.-Decided December 13, 1920.

Whether a homestead right zan be initiated by filing an application
while the land is reserved to give opportunity'for lieu selections by a
State, under the Act of 1894, 28 Stat. 394, is a question involving a

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

construction of that statute which the Secretary of the Interior must
decide in determining between such applicant and one who was in
possession and made application when the period for state selection
expired; and mandamus will not lie to control the Secretary's decision. P. 347
48 App. D. C. 279, affirmed.
THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Patrick H. Loughran for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Nebeker, with whom Mr.
H. L. Underwood, Special Assistant to the Attorney Gen-,
eral, was on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
This case involves the consideration of a mandamus
brought by plaintiff in error, hereinafter called relator,
against the Secretary of the Interior.
The proceedings were instituted in the Supreme Court
of the District of Columbia by petition and its essential
allegations stated narratively are as follows:
The lands in question are within a township which was
reserved under an act passed August 18, 1894, c. 301,
28 Stat. 394, from adverse appropriation by settlement or
otherwise except under rights found to exist of prior inception, for a period, to extend from the application for survey
until the'expiration of sixty days from the date of the filing
of the township plat of the survey in the proper district
land office.
The plat of the survey was filed in the proper district
land office May 17, 1915.- During the sixty-day period,
nor since, the described land has not been selected by the
State. On June 5, 1915, the relator settled on the land
and on July 17, 1915, was still actually residing thereon

HALL v. PAYNE.
343.

Opinion of the Court.

with the bona fide intention and purpose ot appropriating
and entering it under the homestead laws of the United
States, in the event Tbat the State of Montana did not
select the same in accordance with the statute.
On the latter date, relator filed in the Land Office, perfect app 'cation for the land as a homestead which the
Register and Receiver rejected for the stated reason that
on July 16, 1915, they -had permitted one George E.
Kennedy to make a homestead entry of the lands.
The permission for the entry of Kennedy rested wholly
upon an application made May 25, 1915, at a time when
the lands were reserved as before stated.
On May 25, 1915, the Register and Receiver rejected
Kennedy's application in the following terms: "Rejected
May 25, 1915, because land not open to entry until July 17,
1915, except to State of Montana and settlers prior to
March 10, 1910."
On June 4, 1915, the Register and Receiver made the
following notation upon Kennedy's application: "Suspended June 4, 1915, pending preference right of State of
Montana. Rejection of May 25, 1915, hereby revoked."
Theretofore it had been the consistent and uniform.
practice of the General Land Office to reject any and all
filings such as Kennedy's.
Relator appealed from the rejection of his application to
the General Land Office and that office affirmed the decision of the Register and Receiver, and relator appealed to
the Secretary of the Interior who on July 28, 1916, affirmed
the decision of the General Land Office and held 'that
"Kennedy's application being prior in time, is also prior
in right."
The Secretary in his decision did not refer to any of the
asserted prior decisions or practice, but arbitrarily disregarded the mandate and will of Congress expressed in the
Act of August 18, 1894.
Relator at the moment of the expiration of the sixty-day

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

limit was actually residing on the land with the intention
of making entry thereof under the homestead laws, and
the right to make such entry after the sixty-day period was
secured to him by such residence by the provisions of the
third section of the Act of May 14, 1880, c, 89, 21 Stat. 140,
and the uniform decisions of the Department of the Interior under said act, and the Secretary of the Interior has
arbitrarily denied to him the exercise and enjoyment of
that right. And in ruling that Kennedy had acquired a
right under the homestead laws relator is deprived of the
benefit to him of performance by the Secretary of the
Interior of a purely ministerial duty, and he prays that a
writ of mandamus be issued, directed to the Secretary to
approve his, the relator's application, and deliver to him
the proper evidence thereof. General relief is also prayed.
An order to show cause against the petition was issued
and served on the Secretary to which he made reply
affirming the legality of the action of the local land office,
and the decision of the General Land Office affirming it,
and his decision of concurrence.
He denies that there had been any ruling by the Secretary of the Interior that during the sixty-day period
applications for homestead entry must be rejected. Such,
however, he admits, may have been the ruling by the local
land office and even by the Commissioner of the General
Land Office, but he stated that from August 31, 1910, theconstruction of the act was pending before the Secretary
upon an appeal from a decision of the Commissioner,
that a decision upon said appeal is reported in 45 L. D. 37,
under the title of Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. Idaho, dated
April 12, 1916, and that he decided that selections during
such period should not be rejected but held suspended
until final adjudication of the rights of the State.
He avers that such is the proper construction of the act,
and that the act being one-of the land Jaws of the United
States, its construction, as well as the determination of all

HALL v. PAYNE.
343.

Opinion of the Court.

equitable rights of parties under it, is within the jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Interior so long as the legal
title of the land yet remains in the United States, (and
that it appears on the face of relator's petition that the
legal title of the land in controversy is still in the United
States,) and involves the exercise of judgment and discretion, not reviewable by any court on direct proceeding
either by mandamus or in equity.
He prays that the rule to show cause be discharged.
Relator demurred to the return and in passing upon it
the court observed that there were two questions in the
case, one, whether the facts exhibited a case for mandamus
of the Secretary, that is, "in apparent defiance of the law,
acting capriciously or arbitrarily or: beyond the scope of the
administrative authority confided to him," the other, the
construction of the Act of 1894.
To the first question the court answered negatively, and
to the second question replied, that "independently of the
question of the propriety of a review of the action of the
Secretary of the Interior in the pending case, it would
seem that the decision rendered by him was one entirely
permissible under the law." The demurrer to the return
was therefore overruled. Relator electing to stand upon
it, the rule was discharged and the petition dismissed.
This action was affirmed by the Court of Appeals.
It is manifest from this statement that the petition
presents a controversy over the true construction of the
Act of 1894. From the act, and the Secretary's decision,
it is apparent that the latter was not arbitrary or capricious, but rested on a possible construction of the act, and
one that the reported decisions of the Land Department
show is being applied in other cases. The direction of the
act that the lands be reserved "from any adverse appropriation" means necessarily an appropriation adverse to the
State, and this gives color to the Secretary's view. He
could not administer or apply the act without construing

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Syllabus.

254 U. S.

it, and its construction involved the exercise of judgment
and discretion.

The view for which the relator contends

was not so obviously and certainly right as to make it
plainly the duty of the Secretary to give effect to it. The
relator, therefore, is not entitled to a writ of mandamus.

Riverside Oil Co. v. Hitchcock, 190 U. S. 316; Ness v.
Fisher, 223 U. S. 683.
We need not consider the fact that Kennedy, whose
application was sustained, is not a party to the petition
(see Litchfield-v. Register and Receiver, 9 Wall. 575, 578);

nor need we consider whether a more appropriate remedy
will be open to the relator. See Brown v. Hitchcock, 173
U. S. 473; Minnesota v. Lane, 247 U. S. 243, 249, 250.
Judgment affirmed.

VALLELY, AS TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY OF
NORTHERN FIRE & MARINE INSURANCE
COMPANY, v. NORTHERN FIRE & MARINE
INSURANCE COMPANY.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 96.

Submitted November 17, 1920.-Decided December 13, 1920.

1. A petition to revise in matter of law under ยง 24b of the Bankruptcy
Act is the proper remedy to review an order of an inferior court of
bankruptcy vacating an adjudication and dismissing the bankruptcy
proceeding for want of jurisdiction upon the motion of the bankrupt
after the expiration of the time for appeal, he having neither contested the involuntary petition against him nor appealed from the
adjudication. P. 352.
2. Where it appears from the averments of a petition in involuntary
bankruptcy that the person proceeded against is an insurance corporation and therefore within the exceptions of ยง 4b of the Bank-

