OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

DIRECTOR GENERAL OF RAILROADS ET AL. v.
THE VISCOSE -COMPANY.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 424.

Argued December 8, 1920.-Decided January 3, 1921.

1. Under the Federal Control Act and the Transportation Act of 1920,
changes in the classification of a commodity and in the rules determining its acceptance for shipment are as fully within the jurisdiction of the Interstate Commerce Commission when proposed by the
Director General of Railroads as if proposed by a carrier subject to
the Interstate Commerce Act. P. 501.
2. An amendment or supplement to a freight tariff schedule, filed with
the Interstate Commerce Commission, canceling the published
classification and rates on artificial and natural silk and amending
a rule so as to include such silk among the articles not accepted for
shipment, attempts both a classification and a change of regulation
within the meaning of the Interstate Commerce Act, the reason-,
ableness of which, when challenged by a shipper, presents a question
within the exclusive initial jurisdiction of the Commission. P. 500.
3. Held, that a shipper, complaining of such changes, should apply
for relief to the Interstate Commerce Commission, and that the
District Court was without jurisdiction, in the first instance, to
annul the changes and enjoin carriers from complying with them.
THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Henry Wolf Biklg and Mr. Theodore W. Reath, with
whom Mr. F. Markoe Rivinus and Mr. Frederic D. McKenney were on the brief, for the carriers.
Mr. Harold S. Shertz for The Viscose Company.

MR. JUSTICE CLARKE delivered the opinion of the court.

Silk, artificial and natural, had been accepted by the
railway carriers of the country for transportation a3

DIRECTOR GENERAL v. VISCOSE CO.
498.

Opinion of the Court.

freight for many years prior to the action which gave
rise to the question which the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Third Circuit has certified herein to this court and
it had been classified in tariffs as first class. On January
21, 1920, Walker D. Hines, as Director General of Railroads, authorized an amendment or supplement to the
appropriate freight tariff schedule so as to cancel the
published classification and rates on such silk and to so
amend rule 3 of "Consolidated Freight Classification
No. 1" as to include it among the articles "that will not
be accepted for shipment."
On the 28th of January, 1920, the supplement .thus
authorized was filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission, to become effective on the 29th day of February
following, and if no other action had been taken the result
would have been to have excluded such silks from shipment as freight after the effective date, for after that date
there would not have been any published rate applicable
to them.
The appellee, The Viscose Company, is an extensive
manufacturer of artificial silk, eighty per cent. of which
"it maintains" must be shipped as freight, and, claiming
that it would suffer great and irreparable damage if the
supplement to the tariff proposed by the appellants were
allowed to become effective, on February 26th, three
days before it would have taken effect, the company
applied for and obtained a temporary, and later on a
permanent, injunction from the District Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania,
restraining the Director General of Railroads and the
other appellants:
(1) "From putting into effect and enforcing the provisions of the said 'Supplement No. 2 to Consolidated
Freight Classification No. 1,' designed to cancel the existing classification of artificial silk as a commodity of
freight," and

500

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. 9.

(2) "From refusing to accept from The Viscose Company artificial or fibre silk for transportation under classifications which existed prior to the effective date of said
Spplement No. 2, or under such other classification as
may be put into effect thereafter."
An appeal from the District Court carried the case to
the Circuit Court of Appeals, which certifies to this court
the question:
"Did the District Court have jurisdiction to decide
the matter raised by the complainant's bill and thereupon
to annul the said action of the Director General of Railroads and enjoin the carriers from complying therewith?"
Appellants contend that exclusive initial jurisdiction
over the controversy here involved is in the Interstate
Commerce Commission and that the appellee should have
applied to that tribunal for relief. It is argued that the
proposed supplement, striking silks from the first class
in the tariffs filed, was a change in classification and that
the change in rule 3, adding them to the list of commodities which would not be accepted for shipment as freight,
vas a change of regulation and that over the reasonablenesa of both of these the Interstate Commerce Commission is given exclusive initial jurisdiction by §§ 1, 3, 6,
13 and 15 of the Interstate Commerce Act (34 Stat. 584,
as amended 36 Stat. 539).
On the other hand, it is argued by the appellee that
for a common carrier to exclude a commodity from the
tariffs and to refuse to accept it for shipment is neither
classification nor regulation, and that an attempt to do
such a thing presents a question of law for the courts,that exclusion is not classification nor regulation.
Section 1 of the Interstate Commerce Act makes it the
duty of all carriers subject to its provisions to provide
and furnish "transportation upon reasonable request
therefor" . . . "to establish, observe, and enforce
just and reasonable classifications of property for trans-

DIRECTOR GENERAL v. VISCOSE CO.
498.

Opinion of the Court.

portation"
"and just and reasonable regulations
and practices affecting classifications, rates, or tar. "aad all other matters relating to or coniffs" .
nected with the receiving, handling, transporting, storing,
and delivery of property." (36 Stat. 539, 545, 546.)
Section 3 of the act makes it unlawful for any carrier
to subject "any particular description of traffic, to any
undue or unreasonable prejudice or disadvantage in any
respect whatsoever." (24 Stat. 379, 380.)
Section 6 requires every carrier to print and file with the
Commission schedules in form prescribed, showing "the
.
and any zules
classification of freight in force,
or regulations which in any wise change, affect, or deter.
the value of the service rendered to the
mine .
shipper." (34 Stat. 584, 586.)
Section 13 gives to any person or corporation the right
to apply to the Commission for relief on account of "anything done or omitted to be done by any common carrier
subject to the provisions of this Act, in contravention of
the provisions thereof." (36 Stat. 539, 550.)
And § 15 declares that whenever there is filed "any
new individual or joint classification, or any new individual
or joint regulation or practice" the Commission shall
have power to suspend the operation of such schedule,
classification, regulation or practice until, upon complaint
or upon its own initiative, an investigation shall be made,
and if the proposed classification or regulation is found
to be unreasonable or otherwise in violation of the act,
the Commission may find what will be just and reasonable in the premises and may require the carrier thereafter to conform to its finding. (36 Stat. 539, 552.)
The power to suspend classifications or regulations
when issued by the President was taken away from the
Interstate Commerce Commission by the "Act To provide for the operation of transportation systems while
under Federal control," etc. (40 Stat. 451, 456), but the

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

power over them after hearing remained, and the power
to suspend was restored when "The Transportation Act,
1920," approved February 28, 1920, became effective
(41 Stat. 456, 487). The action of the Director General
of Railroads, under consideration in this case, may, therefore, be treated as if it had been taken by a carrier subject to the act.
Without more, these references to the Interstate Commerce Act are sufficient to show that if the proposed
change in the tariffs, and in the rule, which we are considering, constituted a change of classification or of regulation within the meaning of the Commerce Act, there
was ample and specific provision made therein for dealing with the situation through the Commission,-for
suspending the supplement or rule or annulling either or
both if investigation proved the change to be unreasonable, and for providing for just treatment of shippers in
the future. Strangely enough, it is a shipper not a carrier
which here seeks to exclude the latter from this extensive
jurisdiction of the Commission.
The certificate does not state what the purpose of the
Director General of Railroads was in attempting to make
the proposed change, but whether it was to permanently
refuse to carry artificial silk as freight because of its value
or of the risk involved, or for any other reason, or whether
the action was taken to clear the way for putting into
effect a commodity rate higher than the first-class rate
(as might be done under appropriate conditions, Chamber
of Commerce, Houston, Texas, v. International & Great
Northern Ry. Co., 32 I. C. C. 247, 255; Wheeling Corrugating Co. v. Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co., 18 I. C. C.
125, 126), in either case it was necessary that the published classification of rates should be withdrawn by
change of the tariffs on file and that notice should be given,
through rule or regulation, that the silk would not be
accepted for shipment in the future. Thus the supple-

DIRECTOR GENERAL v. VISCOSE CO.
498.

Opinion of the Court.

ment involved a change in the contents of previously
filed classification lists and in a rule 6 r regulation of the
carriers.
That "exclusion is not classification" is an arresting
but illusory expression. Classification in carrier ratemaking practice is grouping,-the associating in a designated list, commodities, which, because of their inherent
quality or value, or of the risks involved in shipment,
or because of the manner or volume in which they
are shipped or loaded, and the like, may justly and conveniently be given similar rates. To exclude a commodity from all classes is'classification of it in as real a sense
and with as definite an effect as to include it in any one
of the usual classes. To strike artificial silk from the
first class and to include it in the "prohibited list" which,
for any cause, the carrier refuses to accept as freight,
classifies it and sets it apart in a group subject to special
treatment, as much as if it had been changed to the second
class. We cannot doubt that the "exclusion" in this case
was an attempted "classification," and that the proposed
change in rule 3 was an attempted change of regulation,
applicable to artificial silks, and that when challenged
by the shipper the reasonableness of both presented a
question for decision within the exclusive initial jurisdiction of the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Confirmation of this conclusion may be found in Lakeand-Rail Butter and Egg Rates, 29 I. C. C. 45. There
carriers on the Great Lakes issued a supplement to their
tariffs (as was done here) adding to the list of commodities
which would not be accepted for shipment, among other
articles, butter, poultry and eggs. This was defended on
the ground that such traffic required refrigeration at a
cost greater than it would bear. Upon complaint bi
shippers to the Interstate Commerce Commission that th.
proposed action was unreasonable, the supplement was
promptly suspended and upon full hearing it was held

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Dissent.

254 U. S.

that the refusal to carry such commodities in the past and
the attempt to fortify such refusal for the future by filing
tariffs declining in terms to receive them, were unduly
prejudicial to the traffic involved, and,, the request of
shippers for such transportation being held reasonab1k
an order that it be furnished was authorized.
The: contention of the carriers, faintly made, that the
common law and not the Interstate Commerce Act furnished the measure of their obligation to the public was
promptly ovirruled by the Commission, informed, as it
was, by wide experience in traffic affairs and in the administration of the act.
The importance to the commerce of the country of -the
exclusive, initial jurisdiction which Congress has committed to the Interstate Commerce Commission need not
be repeated and cannot be overstated (Texas & Pacific
Ry. Co. v. Abilene Cotton Oil.Co., 204 U. S. 426; Baltimore
& Ohio R. R. Co. v. Pitcairn Coal Co., 215 U. S. 481;
Morrisdale Coal Co. v.'Pennsylvania R. R. Co., 230 U. S.
304; Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352; Texas & Pacific
Ry. Co. v. American Tie Co., 234 U. S. 138, 146; Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v. Clark Coal Co., 238 U. S. 456, 469, and
Loomis v. Lehigh Valley R. R. Co., 240 U. S. 43, 49), and,
concluding, as we do, that this case falls plainly within
that jurisdiction, the question asked by the Circuit Court
of Appeals must be answered in the negative.
Question answered, No.
Dissenting: MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA, MR. JU&TICE
VAN DEVANTER, MR. JUSTICE PITNEY and MR. JUSTICE
,
McREYNOLDS.

