OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

HEALD ET AL., COMMITTEE OF THE PERSON
AND ESTATE OF PETERS, v. DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA.

No. 300.

Argued October 18, 1920.-Decided November 8, 1920.

The Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia has not power to
certify questions to this court under Jud. Code, § 251, nor has this
court power to entertain such certificate, in a case wlerein the judgment or decree of the Court of Appeals would be reviewable here by
error or appeal under § 250. P. 21. Arant v. Lane, 245 U. S. 166.
A judgment or decree of that court is so reviewable here, under the
third paragraph of Jud. Code, § 250, when it involves the constitutionality as well as the construction of an act of Congress, though
the act be local to the District of Columbia. P. 22. American
S6curity & Trust Co. v. District of Columbia, 224 U. S. 491, distinguished.
The power to coastrue a statute is a necessary incident of the power
to determine its constitutionality. P. 23.
Paragraphs third and sixth of Jud. Code, § 250, being reenactments of
preexisting law, must retain the settled meaning attached to them
before reenactment, in the abs~nce of plain implication to the contrary. Id.
Dismissed.
THE

case'is stated in theopinion.

Mr. Vernon E. West and Mr. A.. S. Worthington for
Heald et al.
Mr. F. H. Stephens for the District of Columbia.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the

court.
The certificate made by the Court of Appeals of the
District of Columbia as the basis for the questions which

HEALD v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
20.

Opinion of the Court.

are propounded shows that. they relate to a pending suit
to recover taxes, assessed by the District of Columbia
upon intangible property, pursuant to an act of Congress,
and paid under protest on the ground that the assessment
was "illegal and void in whole and in its several parts."
It suffices to say that the questions, which are stated in
the margin, 1 express the purpose of the court below to
ask our instructions as to the constitutionality of the act
of Congress in the light of the construction of that act
which was the basis of the assessment of which complaint
is made.
At bar the subject ic discussed as if the case were here
on error or appeal and, on the other hand, it is prayed that
the power conferred in a case where a certificate is pending to order up the whole record be exerted. But as the
want of power in the court below to make the certificate
has been suggested, and as that naturally arises on the
face of the record and will, if well founded, preclude present inquiry into other questions, we come to consider that
subject.
It is indisputable that the court below had no power to
certify questions to this court in any case where its judgment or decree would be susceptible of review in this court
on error or appeal. Arant v. Lane, 245 U. S. 166, 168.

1" 1. Does Section 9 of an act of Congress approved March 3, 1917
(39 Stat. L. 1004, 1046), under which said assessment was made, require that 'moneys and credits, including moneys loaned and invested,

bonds and shares of stock . . . of any person, firm, association,
or corporation . . . engaged in business within said District,'

but residing outside of said District, shall be assessed by the District
of Columbia for the purpose of taxation?
"2. If it does, is it invalid? And if invalid, does that fact render
void the entire section?
"3. Does the section require th; District of Columbia to assess the
bonds and other securities of the States and their municipal corporations held by residents of the District of Columbia; and i it does,
does its invalidity on that account render the entire section void?"

22

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

Whether the power to certify exists therefore must be
decided by a consideration of §250 of the Judicial Code
which deals with the right to review by error or appeal.
As, when that section is considered, it appears that its
third paragraph in express terms confers power on this
court to review on error or appeal judgments or decrees
of the court below "in cases involving, the construction
or application of the Constitution .of the United States,
or the constitutionality of any law of the United States,
or the validity or construction of any treaty made under
its authority," it is at once demonstrated that the court
below was devoid of any authority to make the certificate
and hence that this court has no jurisdiction to answer
the questions.
But it is suggested that, as it was held in American
Security & Trust Co..v. District of Columbia, 224 U. S.
491, that tle power conferred upon this court by para
graph sixth of §250, to review on error or appeal judgments or decrees of the court below "in cases in which
the construction of any law of the United States is drawn
in question by the, defendant," embraced only the construction of laws of general operation as distinguished
from those which were local to the District of Columbia,
therefore the grant of power to determine the constitutionality of acts of Congress must be treated as applying
only to such acts as are general in character, of which
it is insisted the act involved in this case is not one.
But the contention disregards the suggestion of a difference between the two*subjects which was made in the
American Security Case, and overlooks the implication
resulting from a subsequent case directly dealing with the
same matter. United Surety Co. v. American Fruit Co.,
238 U. S. 140.
In addition, as the paragraphs of § 250 in question but
reenact provisions of °prior statutes which had been construed as conveying authority to review controversies

HEALD vi DISTRICT -OF COLUMBIA.

20.:

Opinion of the Court.

concerning the constitutional power of Congress to enact
lp. 1statutes (Parsons v. PD .tr of Columbia, .170 ,U. S.
45; Snpot v., Heyl, 227. U. S. 518), the proposition conificts with the settled rule that, where provisions of a
statute had previous to their reinactment a settled significance, that meaning will continue to attach to \them
in the absence of plain implication to the contrary. Lati
mer v. United States, 223 U. S. 501, 504; Anderson v.
Pacific Coast S. S. Co., 225 U. S. 187, 199; Louisville
CementCo. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 246 U. S.
638, 644.
That a decision below which merely deals with and in..
terprets a local statute is not subject to review by error
or appeal, affords no basis for saying that the exertion
of the infinitely greater power to determine whether Congress had constitutional authority to pass a statute local
in character should be necessarily subjected to a like limitation. To the contrary, the elementary principle is that
the right to pass upon the greater question, the constitutional power of Congress, draws to it the authority to
also decide all the essential incidents, even though otherwise there might not be a right to consider them. Fiel4
v. Barber Asphalt Paving Co., 194 U. S. 618, 620; Williamson v. United States, 207 U. S. 425, 432; Michigan Central
R. R. Co. v. Vreeland, 227 U. S. 59, 64; Wilson v. United
States, 232 U. S. 563, 565; Singer Sewing Machine Co. v.
Brickell, 233 U. S. 304, 313.
It follows that the certificate must be and it is
Dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

