ROCK ISLAND &c. R. R. v. UNITED STATES. .141
Opinion of the Court.

ROCK ISLAND, ARKANSAS & LOUISIANA RAILROAD COMPANY v. UNITED STATBS.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 82. Submitted November 8, 1920.-Decided November 22, 1920.
The right to sue for the recovery of an internal revenue tax illegally
assessed is conditioned upon prior appeal to and decision by the.
Commissioner of Internal Revenue, which means an appeal, after.
payment, for a refund, and is not satisfied by an appeal or application
for abatement of the tax before it was paid. Rev. Stats., §§ 3226
(as amended), 3220, 3228, construed. P. 142.
54 Ct. Cims. 22, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Thomas P. Littlepage and Mr. Sidney F. Taliaferro
for appellant.
The Solicitor General for the United States. Mr. W.
Marvin Smith was also on the brief.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a claim for a sum paid as an internal revenue
tax under the Act of August 5, 1909, c. 6, § 38, 36 Stat.
11, 112. It is alleged that the claimant was not engaged
in or doing business in the year for which the tax was
collected and that therefore it was not due. The Court
of Claims dismissed the petition on the ground that the
claimant had not complied with the conditions imposed
by statute and the claimant appealed to this Court.
The facts are simple. After the tax was assessed a
claim for an abatement was sent to the Commissioner of
Internal Revenue in July, 1913. On December 18 of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

same year the Commissioner rejected the application',
whereupon on December 26 the claimant paid the tax
with interest and a penalty. So far as appears there was
no protest at the time of payment and it is found that
after it nothing was done to secure repayment of the tax.
By Rev. Stats., § 3226, amended by- Act of February 27,
1877, c. 69, § 1, 19 Stat. 248, no suit shall be maintained
in any Court for the recovery of any tax alleged to have
been illegally assessed "until appeal shall have been duly
made to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, according
to the provisions of lawin that regard, and the regulations
of the Secretary of the Treasury established in pursuance
thereof, and a decision of the Commissioner has been had
therein: Provided," etc. Regulations of the Secretary
established a procedure and a form to be used in applications for abatement of taxes and distinct ones for claims
for refunding them. The claimant took the first step but
not the last.
By Rev. Stats., § 3220, the Commissioner of Internal
Revenue is authorized "on appeal to him made, to remit,
refund, and pay back" taxes illegally assessed. It is
urged that the "appeal" to him to remit made a second
appeal to him to refund an idle act and satisfied the requirement of § 3226. Decisions to that effect in suits
against a collector are cited, the latest 'being Loomis v.
Wattles, 266 Fed. Rep. 876.-But the words "on appeal
to him made" mean, of course, on appeal -in respect of the
relief sought on appeal-to refund if refunding .is what
he is asked to do. The words of § 3226 also must be taken
to mean an appeal after payment, especially in view of
§ 3228 requiring claims of this sort to be presented to the
Commissioner within two years after the cause of action
accrued. So that the question is of reading an implied
exception into the rule as expressed, when substantially
the same objection to the assessment has been urged at an
earlier stage.

COCA-COLA CO. v. KOKE CO.
141.

143

Syllabus.

Men must turn square corners when they deal with the
Government. If it attaches even purely formal conditions
to its consent to be sued those conditions must be complied
with. Lex non prwcipit inutilia (Co. Lit. 127b) expresses
rather an ideal than an accomplished fact. But in this
case we cannot pronounce the second appeal a mere form.
On appeal a judge sometimes concurs in a reversal of his
decision below. It is possible as suggested by the Court
of Claims that the second appeal may be heard by a
different person. At all events the words are there in the
statute and the regulations, and the Court is of opiJnn
that they mark the conditions of the claimant's right. See
Kings County Savings Institution v. Blair, 116 U. S. 200.
It is unnecessary to consider other objections that the
claimant would have to meet before it.could recover upon
this claim.
Judgment afirmed.

THE

COCA-COLA COMPANY v. THE KOKE
COMPANY OF AMERICA. ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 101.

Argued November 18, 19, 1920.-Decided December 6, 1920.

The defense that the plaintiff's trade-mark and advertisements convey
fraudulent representations to the public affords but a narrow ground
for refusing injunctive relief against an infringer who seeks to reap
the advantages of the plaintiff's good will; and the defense must be
carefully scrutinized. P. 145.
As respects this defense, the plaintiff's position must be judged by the
facts as they were when the suit was begun, not by the facts of a
different condition and an earlier time. P. 147.
Plaintiff's beverage, widely sold under the name "Coca-Cola," with

