OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Syllabus.

254 U. S.

it, and its construction involved the exercise of judgment
and discretion.

The view for which the relator contends

was not so obviously and certainly right as to make it
plainly the duty of the Secretary to give effect to it. The
relator, therefore, is not entitled to a writ of mandamus.

Riverside Oil Co. v. Hitchcock, 190 U. S. 316; Ness v.
Fisher, 223 U. S. 683.
We need not consider the fact that Kennedy, whose
application was sustained, is not a party to the petition
(see Litchfield-v. Register and Receiver, 9 Wall. 575, 578);

nor need we consider whether a more appropriate remedy
will be open to the relator. See Brown v. Hitchcock, 173
U. S. 473; Minnesota v. Lane, 247 U. S. 243, 249, 250.
Judgment affirmed.

VALLELY, AS TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY OF
NORTHERN FIRE & MARINE INSURANCE
COMPANY, v. NORTHERN FIRE & MARINE
INSURANCE COMPANY.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 96.

Submitted November 17, 1920.-Decided December 13, 1920.

1. A petition to revise in matter of law under § 24b of the Bankruptcy
Act is the proper remedy to review an order of an inferior court of
bankruptcy vacating an adjudication and dismissing the bankruptcy
proceeding for want of jurisdiction upon the motion of the bankrupt
after the expiration of the time for appeal, he having neither contested the involuntary petition against him nor appealed from the
adjudication. P. 352.
2. Where it appears from the averments of a petition in involuntary
bankruptcy that the person proceeded against is an insurance corporation and therefore within the exceptions of § 4b of the Bank-

VALLELY v. NORTHERN FIRE INS. CO.
348.

Argument for Vallely, Trustee.

ruptcy Act, as amended in 1910, the court of bankruptcy is without
jurisdiction and its adjudication, rendered upon due service of process
and default, and not appealed from, should be vacated and the proceeding dismissed upon the motion of the company, even after the
time for appeal has expired. P. 352.
3. Where an insurance corporation adjudged bankrupt in an involuntary
proceeding after the passage of the Act of 1910, upon due service of
process and default, does not appeal from the adjudication but acquiesces therein and aids the trustee in the performance of hts duties
in administering the estate, it is not estopped from thereafter questioning the validity of the adjudication and the power of the court
and the trustee to proceed. Id.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Rome G. Brown for Vallely, Trustee. Mr. C. J.
Murphy and Mr. T. A. Toner were also on the brief:
As soon as a petition is filed, the court has the duty, and
the statute gives it the power, to decide whether an alleged
bankrupt comes within the class that may be declared
bankrupt. The decision of that fact involves the exercise
of jurisdiction. The jurisdiction is none the less real and
valid because the court might decide the question wrongly.
Neither the allegation nor the fact that the alleged bankrupt is an insurance company, and as such exempt, is
jurisdictional. If the court in the exercise of that power
reached a wrong conclusion, the judgment is not void;
itis merely error to be corrected on appeal or by motion to
vacate, timely made; but as long as it stands it is binding
on everyone. In re Worsham, 142 Fed. Rep. 121; Edelstein v. United States, 149 Fed. Rep. 636; Foltz v. St. Louis
& S. F. Ry. Co., 60 Fed. Rep. 316; In re First National
Bank, 152 Fed. Rep. 64; In re Broadway Savings TrUst Co.,
152 Fed. Rep. 152; In re Plymouth Cordage Co., 135 Fed.
Rep. 1000.
The following decisions are to the same effect: In re New
England Breeders' Club, 169 Fed. Rep. 586; Birch v.
Steele, 165 Fed. Rep. 577; In re T. E. LU-l Co., 159 Fed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Vallely, Trustee.

254 U. S.

Rep. 73; Sabin v. Larkin-GreenLogging Co., 218 Fed. Rep.
984; Roszell Bros. v. Continental Coal Co., 235 Fed. Rep.
343; In re Brett, 130 Fed. Rep. 981; Denver First National
Bank v. Klug, 186 U. S. 202; Des Moines Navigation Co.
v. Iowa Homestead Co., 123 U. S. 552; In re Columbia
Real-Estate Co., 101 Fed. Rep. 971; McCormick v. Sullivant, 10 Wheat. 192.
In most of these cases the question related to the jurisdiction of the court where it appeared that the corporation
against whom adjudication was sought was not one coming within the purview of the Bankruptcy Act. Other
cases relate to the jurisdiction of the federal court generally, arising in instances where a diversity of citizenship
was not shown. The principle involved is the same, and
so recognized by the decisions of this as well as by other
courts. In some of those cases particular emphasis was
laid upon the fact that there had been some delay, and,
even though it were not great in those particular cases, the
court took notice of the fact that the speedy administration of bankrupt estates is contemplated by the law, and
that prejudice and loss would result if interested parties
were permitted, after recognizing proceedings of this kind,
and participating therein, to question the validity thereof.
The facts established in the record in this case show clearly
that loss would result to the general creditors of respondent
if the proceedings taken by the petitioner in connection
with managing and conserving the estate of the respondent are ignored, and the bankruptcy set aside.
The jurisdiction of the bankruptcy court is granted and
defined by § 2 of c. II of the Bankruptcy Law, which
contains no limitations as to the persons or corporations
that may be adjudged bankrupts. Subdivisions a an ,bof
§ 4 of c. III do not relate to the jurisdiction, but cover
procedure, like the numerous state statutes requiring
certain suits to be brought in certain counties, and similar
statutes.

VALLELY v. NORTHERN FIRE INS. CO.
348.

351.

Opinion of the Covrt.

Municipal corporations have never been subject to any
bankruptcy act, and they would not be subject to the
present act whether excepted therefrom or not.' Loveland
on Bankruptcy, § 125; Walter v. Iowa, etc., Ry. Co., 2 Dill.
487.
Mr. N. C. Young for Northern Fire & Marine Insurance Company. Mr. Tracy R. Bangs and Mr. Philip R.
Bangs were also on the brief.
MR. JUSTICE McKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
The Insurance Company was adjudged an involuntary
bankrupt May 3, 1917, upon petition of its creditors. The
petition averred the corporate capacity of the Company
under the laws of North Dakota, and that it had been
"engaged in the business of insuring property against loss
by fire, hail, etc." Process was duly issued and served,
and, the Company making default, an order of adjudication was entered against it. No appeal was taken from
the order. The administration of the estate proceeded in
due course, claims presented, assets collected and reduced
to money, payments made to protect equities, and suits
brought by the trustee in his official capacity. In th,3
matters of the estate the trustee frequently conferred with
the president and secretary of the bankrupt and received
from them co6peration, assistance and information without question of the validity of the adjudication. Considerable moneys were paid out and expenses incurred by
the trustee.
After the above course of administration, and on December 18, 1917, the Company by its attorneys filed a
motion in the District Court to vacate the adjudication as
null and void, and to dismiss the proceedings, upon the
ground that it appeared that the Company was an insur-

352

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

ance corporation and that the court was, therefore, without jurisdiction. The motion was sustained and an order
entered vacating the adjudication and dismissing the petition -of the creditors on authority of § 4-b of the Bankruptcy Act, as amended by the Act of June 25, 1910, c.-410,
36 Stat. 839, which provides that "any moneyed, business, or commercial corporation, except a municipal,
railroad, insurance, or banking corporation,.. .
may be adjudged an involuntary bankrupt upon default
or an impartial trial, and shall be subject to the provisions
and entitled to the benefits of this Act."
The trustee filed a petition to revise the order of the
District Court in a matter of law in the Circuit Court of
Appeals, and the latter court certifies that it is indispensable to the determination of the case, and to the end that
the court may properly discharge its duty, desires instruction upon the following questions:
"1. Is a petition to revise in matter of law under section
24-b of the Bankruptcy Act the proper remedy to review an
order of an inferior court of bankruptcy vacating an adjudication and dismissing the bankruptcy proceeding for
want of jurisdiction upon the motion of the bankrupt after
the expiration of the time for appeal, he having neither
contested the involuntary petition against him nor appealing from the adjudication?
"2. Where it appears from the averments of a petition
in involuntary bankruptcy that the person proceeded
against is an insurance corporation and therefore within
the exceptions of section 4-b of the Bankruptcy Act as
amended June 25, 1910 (36 Stat. 839), is there such an
absence of jurisdiction in the court of bankruptcy that its
adjudication, rendered upon due service of process and
default, and not appealed from, should be vacated and the
proceeding be dismissed upon the motion of the bankrupt
after the time for appeal has expired?
"3. Where an insurance corporation adjudged bankrupt.

VALLELY v. NORTHERN FIRE INS. CO.
348.

353

Opinion of the Court.

in an involuntary proceeding after the passage of the
amendatory Act of June 25, 1910 (36 Stat. 839), upon due
service of process and default, does not appeal from the
adjudication but acquiesces therein and aids the trustee in
the performance of his duties in administering the estate,
may it be estopped from thereafter questioning the validity of the adjudication and the power of the court and the
trustee to proceed?"
Of the construction of the statute there can be no controversy; what answer shall be made to the questions turns
on other considerations, turns on the effect of the conduct
of the Company as an estoppel. That it has such effect is
contended by the trustee, and there is an express concession that if objection had been made the Company would
have been entitled to a dismissal of the petition. It is,
however, insisted that it is settled "that an erroneous
adjudication against an exempt corporation, whether
made by default or upon a contest or trial before the
bankruptcy court, can be attacked only by appeal, writ of
error, or prompt motion to vacate," and that § 4 does not
relate to the jurisdiction of the court over tle subjectmatter. "It does not, therefore," is the further contention, "create or limit jurisdiction of the court with respect
to its power to consider and pass upon the merits of the
petition." Andthat "the valid exercise of jurisdiction
does not depend on the correctness of the decision." And
again, if the court in the exercise of its jurisdictional power,
"reached a wrong conclusion, the judgment is not void;
it is merely error to be corrected on appeal' or by motion to
vacate, timely made, but as long as'it stands it is binding
on every one." There is plausibility in the propositions
taken in their generality, but there are opposing ones.
Courts are constituted by authority and they can not go
beyond the power delegated to them. If they act beyond
that authority, and certainly in contravention of it, their
judgments and orders are regarded as nullities. They are

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinidh of the Court.

254 U. S.

not voidable, but simply void, and this even prior to
reversal. Elliott v. Peirsol, 1 Pet. 328, 344; Old Wayne
Mutual Life Association v. McDonough, 204 U. S. 8.
Which of the propositions shall prevail in a given case
cannot be dogmatically asserted, and cases of their consideration and application can be cited against each other.
There is such citation in the pending case. Plaintiff in
error cites among others, McCormick v. Sullivant, 10
Wheat. 192; Des Moines Navigation Co. v. Iowa Homestead Co., 123 U. S. 552; Denver First National Bank v.
Klug, 186 U. S. 202.
McCormick v. Sullivant involved the effect of diversity
of citizenship, and it was decided that an absence of its
allegation did not impeach the judgment rendered in the
case *and preclude its being conclusive upon the parties.
And ilj was said (as it has often been said), that the courts
of the United States are "of limited jurisdiction; but
they sxe not, on that account, inferior courts, in the technical sense of those words, whose judgments, taken alone,
are to be disregarded. If the jurisdiction be not alleged in
the proceedings, their judgments and decrees are erroneous, and may, upon writ of error or appeal, be reversed for
that cause. But they are not absolute nullities."
In Des Moines Navigation Co. v. Iowa Homestead Co.,
123 U. S. 552, there came up to be considered also the
effect of a prior adjudication as dependent upon an allegation of diversity of citizenship, and the ruling in McCormick v. Sullivant was affirmed.
The immediate comment on these cases is that the
courts had jurisdiction of their subject-matter and necessarily power to pass upon the fact (diversity of citizenship)
upon which that jurisdiction depended in the given case.
The subject-matter of the suit was not withheld from them
by explicit provision of the law which was their sole
warrant of power.
Denver First National Bank v. Klug is nearer to the

.,jLELY v. NORTHERN FIRE INS. CO.
348.

Opinion of the Court.

question in the case at bar. It was a case in bankruptcy.
The Act of July 1, 1898, 30 Stat. 544, provided that "any
natural person, except a wage-earner or a person engaged
chiefly in farming or the tillage of the soil" might "be
adjudged an involuntary bankrupt upon default or an
impartial trial" and should "be subject to the provisions
and entitled to the benefits" of the act.
A petition in involuntary bankruptcy was filed against
Klug and a trial was had upon the issue, whether he was
"engaged chiefly in farming" within the meaning of the
act, and the jury having found accordingly, the District
Court entered a judgment dismissing the petition. The
question of the jurisdiction was certified to this court and
it was held that the "District Court had and exercised
jurisdiction." This further was said, "The conclusion was,
it is true, that Kug could not be adjudged a bankrupt, but
the court had jurisdiction to so determine, and its jurisdiction over the subject-matter was not and could not be
questioned." Citing Mueller v. Nugent, 184 U. S. 1, 15;
Lotiisvie Trust Co. v. Comingor, 184 U. S. 18, 25; Smith v.
McKay, 161 U. S. :355.
It will be observed, therefore, that the Act of 1898
made jurisdiction depend upon an inquiry of fact and
necessarily jurisdiction was conferred to make the inquiry,
and pronounce judgment according to its result. The case,
therefore, is not pertinent to, or auth6rity upon the case
at bar. The Act of June 25, 1910, which cover,. the present
proceeding is peremptory in its prohibition. It excludes,
by § 4-a, insurance corporations from the benefits of
voluntary bankruptcy, and by sub-division b prohibits
them from being adjudged involuntary bankrupts. The
effect of these provisions is that there is no statute of
bankruptcy as to the excepted corporations, and necessarily there is no power in the District Court to include
them: In other words, the policy of the law is to leave
the relation and remedies of "municipal, railroad, insur

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.

Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

ance, or banking" corporations to their creditors and their
creditors to them, to other provisions of law. It is easy to
see in what disorder a different policy would result. We
may use for illustration a municipal corporation. Its
creditors may be enterprising, its officers acquiescent or
indifferent; can, therefore, the allegations of the former
and the default of the latter confer jurisdiction on the
District Court to entertain a petition in bankruptcy
against the corporation and render a decree therein, and if
not, why not? If consent can confirm jurisdiction, why
not initially confer jurisdiction? It is not necessary to
point out the disorder that would hence result and the
difficulties that the officers of a bankruptcy court would
encounter in such situation. The legislative power
thought care against the possibility of it was necessary,
and in that care associated insurance corporations. For a
court to extend the act to corporations of either kind is to
enact a law, not to execute one.
The first question concerns procedure only, and should
be answered in the affirmative. Denver First National
Bank v. Klug, supra; Matter of Loving, 224 U. S. 183.
The second and third questions concern the merits and
are respectively answered in the affirmative and negative.
So ordered.

