SAMPLINER v. MOTION PICTURE CO.
231..

Syllabus.

justice and the terms of the Fifth Amendment so require."
United States v. Cress, 243 U. S. 316, 329. But nothing
could have been recovered for destruction of business or
loss sustained through enforced sale of the cattle. There
was no actual taking of these things by the United States,

and consequently no basis for an implied promise to make
compensation. We need not consider the effect of the
judgment in the condemnation proceedings.
It is suggested that although the United States did not
appeal they may now contest the judgment upon the
ground that there was no contractual obligation to make
compensation for the. hay. "Without an appeal, a party
will not' be heard in an appellate court to question the
correctness of the decree of the trial court." Cherokee
Nation v. Blackfeather, 155 U. S. 218, 221.
The judgment below is
Affirmed.

SAMPLINER

v. MOTION

PICTURE
AL.
ET
,COMPANY

PATENTS

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE' SECOND'

CIRCUIT.
No. 89. Argued November 12, 1920.-Decided December 6, 1920.
A party whojoins the opposing party in requesting the District
Court to instruct peremptorily upon the ground that the evidence
entitles him to a verdict as a matter of law, may reserve his right to
go to the jury if the court should regard the facts as disputed; and
where such reservation, is properly made, the court cannot ignore
it and assume to find the facts from the evidence as though the case
had been unconditionally submitted. P. 239.
' :
Held, that adequate and timely reservation of the right was made in
this case.
255 Fed. Rep. 242, reversed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. John G. White, with whom Mr. Austin V. Cannon
was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Samuel Seabury, with whom Mr. William M. Seabury, Mr. Robert H. McCarter, Mr. Charles F. Kingsley,
Mr. Howard Thayer Kingsbury, Mr. Charles B. Samuels
and Mr. Alfred P. W. Seaman were on the brief, for
defendants in error.
MR. JusTicE McREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
court.
The opinion below is reported in 255 Fed. Rep. 242.
By an assignment executed in Ohio December 28, 1911,
the Lake Shore Film and Supply Company, a corporation
of that State, undertook to convey to plaintiff in erroi
its claim and right of action against defendants for damages resulting from their violations of the Sherman Act.
Relying upon the assignment he brought suit for $750,000
January 16, 1917, in the United States District Court,
Southern District of New York. The defendants denied
liability, and set up the following as a separate and distinct defense:
"The plaintiff is and at the time of his alleged purchase
of the claims in controversy, set up in the complaint
herein, was an attorney and counsellor-at-law of the State
of Ohio, practicing as such before the Courts of that
State. . . . That at the time of said alleged purchase,
it was, and is now, the law of the State of Ohio, that an
attorney who purchased a demand with full knowledge
and notice that the same was contested and would be
litigated and with the intent and for the purpose of bringing an action thereon, was guilty of maintenance and
champerty and'got no title to such demand by such Piur-

SAMPLINER v. MOTION PICTURE CO.
233.

Opinion of the Court.

chase which could be enforced either at law or in equity,
and that the same was at said time, and still is, the law
of the State of New York..
.
. That the plaintiff
purchased the demand set forth in the complaint with
full knowledge and notice that the same was contested
and would be litigated and with the intent and for the
purpose of bringing action thereon."
All parties agreeing, the court directed a separate trial
before a jury upon the issues of fact and law arising under
the special defense. Plaintiff in error testified in his own
behalf and called two other witnesses-none were called
by the defendants. The essential facts as well stated by
the Circuit Court of Appeals follow:
"The assignment states that-' For value received the
Lake Shore . . . Company . . . hereby sells,
assigns, and transfers to J. H. Sampliner all of its rights
and interests in and to any and all damages which it has
sustained and suffered by reason of injury to its business,
because of the unlawful combination and monopoly in
restraint of interstate commerce, and in violation of the
Sherman Anti-Trust Act, brought about, engaged in and
as a result of the unlawful agreement by and between the
Motion Picture Patents Company; . . . all of said
parties having conspired together for the purpose of
ruining 'and destroying the business of the Lake Shore
Company, and contrary to and in violation of
the Sherman Anti-Trust Act.
"The testimony shows that the plaintiff had rendered
legal services to the assignor as its general counsel in connection with the difficulties in which it found itself with
the defendants, and that those services extended over a
period from July, 1910, to December, 1911. The plaintiff
regarded the reasonable value of his services as worth from
$8,000 to $10,000. On December 10, 1911, he was asked
by the president of the Lake Shore Company whether
he would be willing to bring suit against the defendants,

236

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

and that he replied that he would bring the suit, being
satisfied that the company had a valid claim, and that it
would cost from $8,000 to $10,000. He was informed by
the president of the company that it had been losing
money very heavily, and it was absolutely impossible for it
tic undertake any litigation of that kind. He was asked
what the company already owed him, and replied in the
neighborhood of $9,000 or $10,000. He was told the company did not have the money and could not pay him, and
thereupon he said that, if the company would pay him
$5,000 in cash, he would cancel the indebtedness. After
some reflection the president, Mr. Mandelbaum, told
him that the corporation would transfer to him all rights
it had against the defendants if he would be willing to
accept it as a satisfaction of the company's indebtedness
to him. The plaintiff told him that he would think it over
and give him an answer. After a few days' reflection the
plaintiff expressed a willingness to accept the assignment,
and was told that the board of directors wanted to know
whether, if they made an assignment, the plaintiff would
as a part of the consideration defend the company and
its officers in- case any suit was brought against them in
matters growing out of their difficulties with the defendants. He agreed to do this, and the assignment was executed.
"It appears, therefore, that the assignment originated,
not with the plaintiff, but with the Lake Shore Company,
and that the consideration for the agreement involved the
payment of a past indebtedness, as well as for future services of a professional character. It is also to be noted
that the invalidity of the assignment is set up, not by the
client, the assignor, who has at no time sought to repudiate
it, but by third parties, between whom and the plaintiff
no fiduciary relations have existed."
At the conclusion of the evidence the defendants asked
a directed verdict "on the ground that the plaintiff has

SAMPLINER v. MOTION PICTURE CO.
233.

.237

Opinion of the Court.

not shown title to this cause of action; on the ground that
it now affirmatively appears from the evideneg in this
case that the, agreement under which the plaintiff assumed
to bring this cause of action is champertous -and void."
Thereupon the following occurred-Mr. Rogers representing the. plaintiff:
"Mr. Rogers:. If your Honor is going to grant the
motion for a direction of a verdict I will take a formal
objection to it, but my request is that if your, Honor is
going to find for the defendant, that it be a non-suit to
the plaintiff's cause of action. I think that is as far as
your Honor can go.
"The Court: You may be right, but the defendant
has rested and moves for the direction of a verdict, and
I am going to pass on that motion.
"Mr. Rogers: But, your Honor, I submit there aren't
any questions of fact on which to go to the jury; I submit
the matter is purely a matter of law for your Honor to
determine, and I think the question whether the agreement is or is not champertous is one of law for the
Court.
"The Court: Well, Mr. Rogers, you Liay either rest
on the motion of the defense and take an exception to
such ruling as I make, if it should be adverse, or you
can ask to go to the jury. That is entirely for you to
determine.
"Mr. Rogers: Well, if there are any questions of fact
to be disposed of, your Honor, I ask to go to the jury upon
the questions of fact.
"Mr. Seabury: I think he should specify and not put
a hypothetical motion.
"The Court: I cannot have any 'ifs.' If you think
*under Section 973 of the Code, the Court has no right
to make a direction, and you are right about it, you
will have a goo& exception; if, on the other hand, the
Court is right, your exception will be addressed not to.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.

Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

the question of practice, but to the substantive questions
in the case.
"Mr. Rogers: Then, your Honor, may I state my position on the record? "The Court: Yes, certainly.
"Mr. Rogers: The defendant having moved for a direction in order to preserve the plaintiff's rights, I beg
leave to state my position on the record with the permission of the Court.
"My understanding is that-the question islone of law
to be kassed upon by the Court from the faits adduced.
If, however, it is necessary in order to preserv.e the plaintiff's rights that I make a request to go to the'jury, I ask
to go to the jury upon the question as to whether or not
the plaintiff took an assignment of the cause of action for
the intent and purpose to begin, an action thereon, and
whether the assignment to him was bona fide for an antecedent indebtedness..
"The Court: The Court cannottake conditional offers.
Counsel is at liberty, if so advised, to request to go to
the jury and the Court will rule.
"Mr. Rogers: Then I move for a direction, your Honor,
for the plaintiff, upon the issue framed under your Honor's
order on the ground the defendant has failed to make out
the defense set up in the answer, to wit, that the plaintiff
purchased this cause of action-that is the defense that
is set up-and I desire -to call your Honor's attention
particularly to the form of the defense as pleaded. The
defense is that this plaintiff's title is void because he purchased this cause of action with the intent to sue thereon.
It now appears uncontradicted, from the evidence, that
instead of having purchased this cause of action, it was
assigned to him under a bona fide assignment for an antecedent indebtedness owing to him for servibes which he
had performed for the corporation.
"The Court: Both sides having moved for a direction

SAMPLINER v. MOTION PICTURE CO.
233.

Opinion of the Court.

of a verdict, I find as a fact that the plaintiff purchased
this cause of action with intent to sue thereon.
"I find, as a fact, also, that the so-called assignment,
Plaintiff's Exhibit No. 1, was executed by the Lake Shore
Company, through its officers, pursuant to action at a
special meeting of the Board of Directors."
A verdict for the defcndants was directed and judgment
entered thereon. The Circuit Court of Appeals declared
itself concluded by the trial court's finding "that the
plaintiff purchased this cause of action with intent to
sue thereon," and held: "We must dispose of this case
upon the theory that the plaintiff did not in fact take this
assignment to extinguish a precedent debt, but that he
purchased it for the purpose of suing upon it; that he, an
attorney at law, purchased from his client for $5,000 a
cause of action which he values at $750,000. The question
we must answer, therefore, is whether the law sanctions
such a transaction between parties standing in the confidential relation of attorney and client. We are satisfied
that the common law does not sanction it."
Among other things counsel for plaintiff in error now
insist that "if there were any questions of fact to be decided or divergent inferences of fact to be made the District Court erred in not submitting them to the jury."
The point is well taken.
Statements by plaintiff's counisel made it sufficiently
plain that while he, sought an instructed verdict he also
requested to go to the jury if the court held a contrary
view concerning the evidence. In the circumstances disclosed we think the request was adequate and timely
under former opinions of.this ccurt. Empire State Cattle
Co. v. Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Ry. Co., 210 U. S. 1,
8; Sena v. American Turquoise Co., 220 U. S. 497, 501;
Schmidt v. Bank of Commerce, 234 U. S. 64, 66; Williams
v. Vreeland, 250 U. S. 295, 298. It should have been
granted. Clearly some substantial evidence strongly

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Counsel for Parties.

254 U. S.

tended to show that the assignment was taken in
extinguishment, of an existing indebtedness and not
for mere speculation upon the outcome of intended
litigation.
The judgment below must be reversed and the cause remanded to the District Court for further proceedings
in conformity with this opinion.

GREAT WESTERN SERUM COMPANY v,
UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 90.

Argued November 12, 1920.-Decided December 6, 1920.

A contractual obligation of the United States to pay the owner cannot
be implied from the seizure and destruction of anti-hog-cholera
serum by agents of the Bureau of Animal Industry, without agreement to purchase, nor from the Act of March 4, 1915, c. 144, 38
Stat. 1115, authorizing the Secretary of Agriculture in dealing with
an emergency arising from animal disease to expend money in its
eradication, including payment of claims growing out of purchase

and destruction of materials contaminated or exposed to the. disease. P. 241.
54 Ct. Clms. 203, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion
Mr. Edwin/H. Cassels, with whom Mr. Jamas H Wil
keron and Mr. Eaward F. Colladay were On the briefs
for appellant.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General"Davis, with whom MO.

