WELLS BROS. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

WELLS BROTHERS COMPANY OF NEW YORK v.
UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 75.. Submitted April 30, 1920.-Decided November 8, 1920.
Where a contract for the construction of a public building, giving the
United States a broad power to suspend operations where necessary
in the opinion of its architects for the purpose or advantage of the
work, permitted the United States to maake changes of materials,
and, besides providing against claims for damages on account of
such changes, declared generally that no claim should be made or
allowed to the contractor for any damages arising out of any delay
caused by the United States, hdd, that a delay ordered to await an
appropriation by Congress for substituted materials and another
in anticipation of the passage of a postal law because of which the
plans were altered, would not support claims for damages under the
contract. P. 85.
54 Ct. Clms. 206, affirmed.
THE case

is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Abram R. Serven and Mr. Burt E."Barlow for appellant.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Datvi for the United
States. Mr. Jno. W. Trainer was also on the brief.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from a judgment of the Court of
Claims, sustaining a general demurrer to and dismissing
the amended petition.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
ODinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

The allegations of this amended petition, admitted by
the demurrer and essential to be considered, are:,
The appellant, a corporation organized under the laws
of New York, and engaged in the general building and
construction business, entered into a. written contract
with the United States for the construction of a post office
and court house building in New Orleans, dated September
30, 1909, for which it was to be, paid $817,000, but its
bond for performance was not approved until nine days
later, on October 9; on the day after the contract was
signed the United States "ordered and directed" appellant to delay ordering limestone, (as specified in the contract) for the exterior of the street fronts of the building
"for the reason, as stated, that a change was contemplated
in said exterior face stonework which would require an
additional appropriation by Congress"; the appellant
assented to a delay of two weeks only, but, although protesting that further delay would result in its damage, it
refrained from purchasing limestone until August 19, 1910,
when, the required apliropriation by Congress having
been obtained, a supplemental agreement was entered
into by the parties to the contract by which marble was
substituted for limestone for the street fronts of the building, the compensation of the appellant was increased
$210,500, and the time for completion of the building was
extended from April 1, 1911, to February 5, 1912; during
this delay the contractor proceeded with other work
under the contract and prior to August 19, 1910, it had
completed all the required excavation, foundation and
structural steel work; after the "modificationand addition
of August 19, 1910, to the contract work" the appellant
so proceeded with the performance of the contract that
by February 1st, 1912, the building was substantially
completed except the interior partitions, and thereupon
the United States, again over the protest of appellant,.
"ordered and directed" a delay, which continued to Au-

.-WELLS BROS. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
S..

85

Opinion of the Court.

gust 24, 1912, until congressional legislation was obtained
authorizing the Parcel Post, whereupon the plans for the
interior arrangements of the building were adapted to
that service and the building was completed.
The claim is wholly\for damages occasioned by the two
delays thus described and the question for decision is,
whether the terms of the contract authorized the Government to require such delays without becoming liable to
the contractor for damages which may have been caused
to it thereby.
The contract involved contains this provision:
"It is further covenanted and agreed that the United
States shall have the right of suspending the whole or any
part of the work herein contracted to be done, whenever
in the opinion of the architects of the building, or of the
Supervising Architect, it may be necessary for the purpose or advantage of the work, and upon such occasionor occasions the contractor shall, without expense to the
United States, properly cover over, secure, and protect
such of the work as may be liable to sustain injury from
the weather, or otherwise, and for all such suspensions
the contractor shall be allowed one day additional to the
time herein stated for each and every day of such delay
so caused in the completion of the work; the same to be
ascertained by the Supervising Architect; and a similar
allowance of extra time will be made for such other delays
as the Supervising Architect may find to have been caused
by the United States, provided that a written claim therefor is presented by the contractor within ten days of the
occurrence of such delays; provided, further, that no claim
shall be made or allowed to the contractor for any damages
which may arise out of any delay caused by the United
States."
.The contract further declares that the contractor:
"Will make any omissions from, additions to, or changes
in, th. work or materials herein provided for whenever

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Couit.
required by said party of the first part;

254 U. S.
.

.

.

and that

no claim for damages, on account of such changes or for anticipated profits, shall be made or allowed."
It would be difficult to select language giving larger
discretion to the United States to suspend the performance
of the "whole or any part of the work" contracted for,
or to change the work or materials, than that here used.
The provision for the protection of the work shows that
long interruptions were contemplated with a compensating extension of time for performance provided for, and
it is admitted that, eight days before its bond was approved
and it became bound, the appellant received its first order
to delay, for the reason that "a change was contemplated
in said exterior face stonework which would require an
additional appropriation by Congress."
Such a delay as was thus ordered was certain to be an
infidenite and very probably a long-continued one, but
the appellant, experienced contractor that it was, did not
hesitate to submit to it by permitting the approval of its
bond, which rendered its obligation under the contract
complete, more than a week after notice had been received
of the order. Thus, with much the longest delay complained of ordered and actually entered upon; the appellant consented to be bound by the -language quoted, which
vested such comprehensive discretion over the work in the
Government. That this confidence of the contractor was
not misplaced is shown by the fact that this first delay
resulted in the substitution of marble for limestone for
the street fronts of the. building and in a supplemental
agreement by which it received additional payments,
aggregating $210,500, and an extension of ten months
for the completion of the work.
In addition to all this it must be noted that the first
paragraph, above quoted, concludes with this independent
proviso:
"Provided, further, that no claim shall be made or allowed

WELLS BROS. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
83.

Opinion of the Court.

to the contractor for any damages which may arise out of
any delay caused by the United States."
Here is a plain and unrestricted covenant on the part
of the contractor, comprehensive as words can make it,
that it will not make any claim against the Government
"for any damages which may arise out of any delay caused
by the United States" in the performance of the contract,
and this is emphasized by being immediately coupled with
a declaration by the Government 'that if such a claim
should be made it would not be allowed.
Such language, disassociated as it is from provisions
relating to "omissions from," the making of "additions
to, or changes in," the work to be done, or "materials"
to be used, can not be treated as meaningless and futile
and read out of the contract. Given its plain meaning
it is fatal to the appellant's claim.
Men who take million-dollar contracts for Government
buildings are neither unsophisticated nor careless. Inexperience and inattention are more likely to be found
in other parties to such contracts than the contractors,
and the presumption is obvious and strong that the men
signing such a contract as we have here protected themselves against such delays as are complained of by the
higher price exacted for the work.
We are dealing with a written contract, plain and comprehensive in its terms, and the case is clearly ruled in
principle by Day v. United States, 245 U. S. 159, 161;
CarnegieSteel Co. v. United States, 240 U. S. 156, 164, 165;
Dernott v. Jones, 2 Wall. 1, 7, and Chouteau v. United
States, 95 U. S. 61, 67, 68. The judgment of the Court
of Claims dismissing the petition must be
Affirmed.

