SUPREME COURT.

Ex PT

JeHx L. TnxI1mHAST, EsQmuiE.

-That a counsellorpraetising in the highest court of the stat6 of New York, in
which he resides, had been struck off from the roll of counsellors of the distriet court of the United States for the northern district of New York, by the
order of the judge of that court, fora contempt; does not authorise this court
1o'refute his admission as a counsellor of this court.
This court does not consider the circumstances upon which the order of the district judge was given within its' cognizance; or that it is authorised to punish
fora contempt, which may have been committed in the district court of the
northern district of New York.

Mr Hoffman moved the. court for the admission of Mr
J. L. Tillinghast, as a counsellor of this court.
He stated, that he was a counsellor of the court of chancery of the state of- New York and of the supreme court
of that state, and was at this time in the full exercise anSd
enjoyment of the rights a.nd'privileges.of a counsellor of those
courts. He exhibited the certificates in due form of the
time of the admission of Mr Tillinghast, fo practise in the
courts, and that he is now a practitioner of the same. He
was enabled to say, from knowing the opinions of three of
the judges of the supreme court of New York, that Mr
Tillinghast was respected, and had their conifidence.
It was understood that the rule of this court was to admit
persons who practised in the highest courts of the several
states, and Mr Tillinghast was therefore completely within
the rule.
It would be disingenuous not to refer to a circumstance
which had occurred:in relation to Mr Tillinghast, in the
district court of the United States, for the northern district
of lNew York. In that court , he had been struck -off the
roll of counsellors of the court by order of the district judge.
Ifthe causes of that proceeding are now to be inquired
into; under the relations which existed between him and
Judge Conklin, thd the respect he entertained for him; Mr
-Hoffman said he should not interfere. But this court will
not look into this circumstance ; and the mere fact of an in-

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Ex parte John L. Tllinghast.]

dividual having been stricken off the roll, would not in itself induce. the -court to refuse his admission here. Thi.s.
might occur at the.request of the individual, or it might be
the -effect of his acceptance of an office -which disqualified
him to practise; as that of marshal. *Upon this fact alone
the court will not reject this application.
But if the court will go into an examination of the circumstances of the case, Mr Tillinghast is fully' prepared,
and willing to proceed ; in which he will have the aid of
other counsel. He is desirous that this court would hear
the facts and decide upon them, and he expects to' be able
in the investigation -fully to vindicate himself from all reproach.
It is, understood that on a former occasion, when a mandamus was applied for to the district judge to restore the applicant to the roll of counsellors, this court would not go
into an examination *ofthe facts of the case, and ,they may
not now be disposed to do it. It might also be objected to
it, that it would be ex parte, and will give to Judge Conklin
no opportunity to be heard on: the matter.
The certificates of the admission of Mr Tillinghast to
practise in the highest courts of New York, and of his
now being a counsellor of-those courts, were then filed by
Mr Hoffman
Mr Chief Justice MARSHALL. - The court has'had under its
consideration the application of Mr Tiltinghast for admission
to this.bar.
The court finds that he comes within the rules established by this- court. The circumstance of his having been
stricken off the roll of counsellors of the district court of the
northern district of New York, by the orderof the judge
of that court for a contempt, is one which the court do not
mein- to say was not done for sufficient cause, 6r that it is
-not one of a serious character; but this court does not consider itself authorised to punish here for contempts which
may have been committed in that court.
When, on a former occasion, a mandamus was applied for
to restore Mr Tillinghast to the roll of counsellors of the dis-

110

SUPREME COURT.
[Ex pate John L. Tillnghast.]

trict court, this court refused to interfere with the matter;
not considering the same within their cognizance.
The rules of this court having been in every respect complied with, Mr Tillinghast must be admitted a counsellor of
this court.
On consideration of the motion made by Mr Hoffman, it
is ordered by the court that John L. Tillinghast, Esq. of the
state of New York, be admitted as an attorney and counsellor of this court, and he was sworn accordingly.

