SUPREME COURT.

Jom' P. VAq

NEss, Am MARCA n Wn, CowLA-IqAriTs,
PELLA NTS VS. THE MAYOR, ALDEmEE,
AND BoARD OF Co

Al0xoN

CouNci oF THE CrTY oF WAsINmGT N, AND THE UmfTzD
STATES OF AEERIcA, Dn wArDTs.
In 1822 congress passed an act autbdrising the corporation of Washington to
drain the ground in and near certain 'public reservations, and to improve and
ornament certain parts of the public reservations. The corporation are.empowered to make an agreement, hy which'parts of the location of the canal
shall be changed, for the purpose of draining and drying the low grounds near
the Pennsylvania avenue,;,&c. To effect these objects, the corporation is
authorised to lay off in building lots certain parts of the public reservations,
No. 10, 11, and 12, and of other squares, and also a part of B. street, as laid
out and designated in the original plan of the city, which.lots they may sell at
auction, and apply the proceeds to those objects, and afterwardp to 'enclosing,
planting and improving -other reservations, and building bridges, &c. the surplus, if any, to be paid into the treasury of the United States. The act authorises the heirs, &c. of the former proprietors of the Tand on which the city was
laid out, who may consider themselves injured by the purposes of the act, to"
institute in thie circuit court a bill in equity, in the nature of a petition of right
against the United States, setting forth the grounds of any claim they may
consider themselves entitled to nake, to be conducted according to the rules
of a court of equity; the court to hear and determine upon the claim of the
plaintiffs, and what portioni, if any, of the money arising from'the sale of the
lots they may be entitled to, with a right
M f appeal ta this court. The plaintiffs, Van Ness and wife, filed their bill against the United States and the corporation of Washington, claiming title to the lots which had been thus sold, under
David Burns, the original pfoprietor of that part of the city, and father of one
bf the plaintiffs, on the ground that by the agreement between, the United
States and the original proprieltors, upon laying out the city, those reservations
and streets were for ever to remain for public use, and without the c6nsent of
the proprietors could not be otherwise appropriated or sold for private use ;
that the act of congress was a violation of the contract; that by such sale and
appropriation for private use the right of the United States thereto was determined, or that the original proprietors reacquired a right to have the reservations,
&c. laid out in building lots for their joint and deual benefit with the United
States, or that they were in equity entitled to the whole or a moiety of the
proceeds of the .ales of the lots. Held, that no rights or claims exist in the
former proprietors br their heirs, and that the proceedings of the corporation of
Washington, under and in conformity with the provisions of the act; are valid
a)nd effectual for the purposes of the act.

APPEAL from the circuit court of the district of Columbia, for the county of Washington.

JANUARY TERM 1830.
EVan Ness and Wife vs. The City of Washington and United States.]

The original bill, in this case was filed the 16th of April
1823. It set forth that the complainant, Marcia Van Ness,
was the only child and heir at law'of David Burns, deceased.
That Burns was, in his life time, and particularly on the 6th
of July 1790, seised and possessed of a considerable tract of
land, within the limits of the present city of Washington ;.that
a part of this-land constitutes so much of-the land mbntioned
in the second section .of an act of congress, of May 7, 1822,
c. 96, as is indicated in a map annexed to the bill of complaint by the words 'fReservation N1o. 10, 11, and 12, on
the north side of the Pennsylvania Avenue."
That by virtue of the said act of congress, the corporation
of the city of Washington have proceeded to lay off and'
divide the said land into lots; that they have -sold some, and
are about to sell others ; that the land thus disposed of is to
be held by the purchasers for their own private use and exclusive benefit; and the bill complains of. these proceedings
as a breach of trust.
It avers that on .the 6th of July 1790, an act of congress
passed, establishing the temporary and permanent seat of
government of the United States. By this act the president
was authorised to appoint commissioners who were authorised
to purchase or accept such quantity of land within the district
as the president might deem proper for the use of the United
States, and according to such plans as the president should
approve. By virtue of this.act, Various proposals were made
concerning cessions-of land for the site of the city of Washington: the substance of which proposals was, that the Presi
dent might retain any number of squares he might think proper for the public improvements, or other public uses, and that
the lots only which should be laid off should be a joint property.between the trustees ori behalf of the public and each
of the three proprietors, and that the same should be equally
divided between the public and the individuals, as soon as
might be after the city should be laid off.
For the streets the proprietors were to receive no compensation. For the squares aqd lands in.any'.form which
should be taken for public buildings or any kind of public
VOL,. IV.-2 E

234. :

SUPREME COURT.

[Van Ness and Wife vs. The City of Washingon and United States.]

improvement or uses, the proprietors, whose lands might be
so taken were.to receive compensation, &c.
SOII-the 28th of June 179.1,*David Burns, by his deed, ponveyed ,to Thomas Beall.and John Mackall-Gantt, in fee simple, for the purposes and trusts therein mentioned, a considetable quantity of land, partof which constitutes thd land
described in the act of May 7, 1822.
The whole of the land-thus conveyed to Beall and Gantt
was afterwards, 30th of -Noyember 1796, conveyed by them
to the commissioners appointed under the act aforesaid, upon
the same.trusts and uses as are expressed in the deed of conveyance to them.
The-plan of the city as originally projected by L'Enfant,
improved and matured by Ellicott, wa' approved and adopted
in 1792, by the president of the United States. According
to this plan, the land described is within the operation-of
the act of the 7th of May 1822, except so much thereof as
may-have been sold by virtue of an act of February 24, 1817,
entitled :"an act authorising.the sale of certain grounds
belonging to the United States, in the city of Washington."
The complainants are ignorant of 'theextent of these sales,
but claim all which may thus have ben. disposed of.
The map 'referred to in tile biji, exhibits the division
that was made, under the direction of the corporation, of the
land in question into lots, and is the guide by -which the
sales have been conducted. A part of the land in question
was not reserved for public improvements, or other public
uses, but belonged to a street called North B street.
The complainants aver that the land in question, if sold
to private individuals .to be held by them for their individual
benefit, will be placed entirely out of the reach of the trusts
and purposes which were intended to be created and secured by the deed and agreement aforesaid. The complainants
are advised this cannot be done without their consent,.which
they' ake willing to give upon the terms of the original contract./ They arewilling to occupy the same ground they
would have occupied if what is now proposed to be done
had'been proposed in 1792: that is, that the land then rbserved
as public squares and streets, and now designed to be
S'l

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Van Ness and 'Wife vs. The City of Washington and United States.)

divided into private building lots, should be divided between
them and the United States, or the corporation claiming
the title of the United States.
The complainants refer to an act of May 6, t796, authorising a loan for the use of the city of Washington, and to
other actsof congress, as uniformly holding out-the idea that
the land in question is not subject to congressional control.
They refer also to the -proceedings of the commissioners in
Davidson's Case, in January. 1794, a copy of which is annexed; and to the opinion of the attorney general in that case.
The complainants aver that they hive presented their
claim to the corporation of Washington, and to the commissioners appointed by the corporation, and urged a postponement of any further sale.
On. the 19th of May 1826, the complainants filed an
.amended bill, the substance of Which is:
That Marcia Van Ness, the complainant, is the only chid
and heir at law of David Burns, deceased; that David
Burns, in his life time, was lawfully seised in fee of the premises in question; that under an act of congress of July 16,
1790, and a supplementary act of March 3, 1791, proposals:
were made by and on behalf of'the presidebt. thereto lawfully authorised, to various persons then the owners of different portions of land lying within the present limits of the
city of Washington, relating to the purchasing and accepting
from the proprietors, various parts of their lands lying within
the limits aforesaid. In consequence of stich proposals an
agreement,was finally made between the proprietors, among
whom was David Burns, and .the United States, the terms
and nature of which are set forth.in an entry under date-of
April 1791, in a book, &c. as set forth iu the original bill.
On the 28th of June 1791, David Burns, in pursuance of
the agreement and arrangement as aforesaid, made and
executed .his deed of conveyance to Beall and Gantt, as
set forth in the original Bill.. Beall and Gantt conveyed,
as recited in the- original bill, (setting out the trusts.)
.&fterwards, on the 13th of December 1791, the president
transmitted to congress a plan of the city which had been
adopted as the permanent seat of government ; that sub-

236

SUPREME COURT.
[Van Ness and Wife vs. The City of Washington and United States.]

sequently, various alterations were made in the same, at
different times, under the authority and sanction of the president. Many building squares have been introduced, in
addition to those contained in the "plan originally adopted
alterations have been made in the number and directions of
the streets; in the dimensions of the building squares and
public appropriations; and in all such cases, when such alterations have been made and those pieces of ground which
had been at any time appropriated as streets, or public reservations, have been subsequently converted, either in whole
or in part, into building lots,- the variations have been by
the mutual consent of the United States and the original
proprietors respectively ; and the lots in such building
squares have been, uniformly, divided between the United
States and such original proprietors.
They insist that such mutual consent and such distribution were not only required by the true meaning and legal
and equitable interpretation of the original compact and
agreement, but such practice' acquiesced in by both parties
ought to be deemed and received as the mutual understanding and design of the parties at the time of entering into it.
In pursuance of such original agreement and of the acts
of congress, the. president did select and appropriate for
streets, squares, parcels and lots, for the use of the United
States, all -the-premises herein before described, lying on the
north and south sides of the Pennsylvania avenue, as aforesaid ; being part and parcel of the premises as herein before
mentioned, conveyed and transferred by -the said David
Burns to Beall and Gantt, upon the trusts and confidences
mentioned and declared in the deed of conveyance. That
for all said premises neither Burns in his life time, nor the
complainants since his death, have received any other consideration than such as is, set forth in the deed, either from
the trustees or from the. United States. The said parcels of
land continued to be held for the use of the United States
as a public street or streets, or public appropriation, according to the plan and seleotion, until an act of congress, entitled " an act authorising the sale of certain. grounds belonging to the United States in the city of Washington,"

JANUARY

2'ERM 1830.

[Van Ness and Wife vs. The City of Wasbington and United States.]

was passed, February 24, 1817; which act was procured t
the instance and by the consent of the ooirporation of 'the
city of Washington. Under. this act the commissioner of
the public buildings in the city of Washington was authorised to lay off into building lots and to sell a portion of
them, being part of the premises herein before described as
lying on the north side of the Pennsylvania Avenue.
The residue of said premises continued to be held for the
public use as aforesaid, until an. act of congress was passed.,
on the 22d of May 1822,-also procured at the instance and
with the consent of the. corporation, entitled, "an act to
authorise and empower the corporati9n of the city of
Washington, in the district of Columbia, to -drain the low
grounds," &c.
These acts of congress are charged to be a clear and manifest departure from ,the terms and spirit of the original
agreement and compact between Burns. arid the United
States. The object and effect of them is to divert the
premises from the trusts expressed and declared in the deed;
that under such deed an interest stiU remained and continued in David Burns, which on his death descended to and now
remains vested in the complainants; that the said acts of
congress were passed without their concurrence or consent,
and that the constitutional power of congress and the rights
of complainants, will not permit or sanction the sale of the
premises to private parties, without such assent and concurrence.
The complainants insist, and submit to the court, whether
the legal operation and effect of said acts be not to determine the trusts originally created as to said premises, and to
revest the same in them; and whether, if they choose to assent to such appropriation of the premises, the same are not
thereby immediately subject to the same trusts as in and by
the indenture were expressed and declared as to all those
portions of the premises thereby conveyed, as were not
deemed proper and necessary by the president; or whether
the complainants are entitled to the whole, or simply to a
moiety of the money arising from said sales.
The bill proceeds to set forth, that under the act of Feb-

SUPREME coUwr.
[Van Ness and Wife vs. The City of Washington and United States.]

ruary 24, 1817, the commissioner 'was authorised to sell
any number of the lots therein mentioned, not )exceeding
one half; and that by the act of May 22, 1822, the corporation of Washington was atuthorfised to sell and dispose of
the right of the United State. of, in, and to the building lots
therein mentioned : and if by virtue of said acts, -any sales
h'ave been or shall be made previous to ascertaining and
settling;the rights of the complainants,.much confiIsion,
perplbxity and trouble may ensue as well. to the corporation
and the individual purchasers, as to the complainants.
Whereas, in and by the said last mentioned act, it was
expressly, enacted, that it shall and may be lawful for the
lawful representatives of any former proprietor of land
,directed to be sold, &c. at any.time within oie year .froin
passing of the same, to institute a bill of equity in the nature of a petition of right against the United $tates in this
honourable court, in which they may set forth the ground
of their claim to the land in question, the complainants do
within the terms of said act present their bill and. claim such
relief in the' premises as may be conformable to the provisions of said acts, or agreeable to equity and good conscience.
And inasmuch as the. corporation of Washington is authorised by said act of.congress to carry the provisions of
the'same into effect, and deny.any right or interest to the
premises, or any "part .thereof to be in complainants, but
claim a iight to sell and dispose of the entire premises, and
the exclusive right to -receive and appropriate all the proceeds of the sales to their own use and benefit, and give out
and insist that the complainants have no claim in law or
eqluity to the land or proceeds, arfd have proceeded to carry
the act of c6ngress into olieration ; they pray, &c.
To this bill the defendants filed their joint and several
demurrer, plea. and answer; the substance of which is, they
claim the benefit of all the prior exceptions and grounds of
demurrer and plea heretofore taken to the original bill, and
deny the equity of the bill. They specially set forth1. That the subject matter of complainant, the title there-'

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Van Ness and Wife vs. The City of Washington and United States.]

in pretended, and the entire relief prayed, are against an act
of congress passed in the due exercise of a legislative discretion and constitutional power; and therefore not cognizable before any municipal court.
2. That the complainant have not shown any title, o r any
individual and proprietary interest in themselves; but a
mere participation of the general interest inherent in them
as members of the community at large, in common with all
the citizens of the United States in the administration of a
public trust by the government.
3. They deny that the complainants have equity; and assert that if they have any title to the land, it may be established at-law.
4. That the bill is defective in its frame, scope and end.
Because it is multifarious, and purports to.have joined therein several matters and claims of different natures, and
repugnant characters. It is uncertain as to the nature, extent, and degree of the relief claimed, and as to the party
against whom it is prayed. It prays no process, except an
.njunction against the corporation.
5 It is not in the nature of a petition of right, demanding any portion of the money arising from the sales of the,
lands, and merely setting forth the complainants' title to the
land, to lay a foundation for their claim to the money, or to
a portion thereof, as authorised by the act of congress ; but
it purports -to claim against, and in derogation of the authority of said act, and to draw the United States into suit touching this claim. The United States and the corporation are
joined in the suit, contrary to the design of the act, and
without showing or alleging any iiiterest.in the corporation.
The defendants, by way of answer, admit that David
Burns was'seised, and did convey, us averred in the bill, and
thit the trustees coniveyed to the commissioners as therein
set fdrth : that the whole of the lands thus conveyed, except
so much as from time to time has been divided and reconveyed, or has been sold or otherwise disposed of, still remains vested in the United States. or Iheir officers or agents,
absolutely and perpetually, fbr the use of the United States.
The defendants insist, that the legal as well as equitable

SUPREME COURT.
[Van Ness and Wife vs. The City of Washington and United States.]

estate has become vested in the United States, or at all
events, that the legal interest has passed to the commissioner -f public buildings, in trust for the United States.
In either case, they insist that the United States have the
only beneficial interest and estate, and the absolute dominion and disposal of the same; and that congress may and
ought to dispose of the same on the terms and in the manner most advantagbous to the.general interest. They admit
that about five hundred and forty-two acres were reserved
for the use of the United States, and not allotted and di-vided : that these lands, thus reseived were purchased at the
rate of twenty-five pounds, or sixty-six dollars and sixty-six
cents per acre, paid out of the public treasury, which price
was mote than three-fold the market price or real value, independently of the adventitious and speculative valuation,
superinduced by making this the permanent seat of government. The lands thus purchased for the use of the United
States, and for which there was no responsibility to the original proprietors beyond the payment of the stipulated price,
Were distributed throughout the'city, and were commonly
known and distinguished as reservations, numbered from
No. I to 17 inclusively. Of these the commissioners accounted with David Burns in his life time, for about one
hundred and ten acres, and paid him two thousand seven.
hundred and fifty. pounds, or seven thousand three hundred
and thirty-three dollars and thirty-three cents;. but without
any. specification of the boundaries or lines.
All the lands described in the second section of the act of
May the 7th, 1822, and which the corporation is authorised to
lay out and sell, cpnsist of parts of the reservations so purchased, as aforesaid, excepting that part over which No. 10
is directed to be extended to Pennsylvania avenue, which
comprises so much of B street as lies between said avenue,
and said reservation, and was so taken in order to square
out to said avenue the house lots into which the reservation
was to be divided.
It is admitted that the part of B street, any more than the
residue of the street; or the other streets, was not, when 3riginally purchased for the use of the United States, set down

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Van Ness and Wife vs. The City of Washington and United States.]

at any price, specifically appropriated.to such parts of the
property; but was incltdcd as an appendage in the purchase
of the general mass of property paid for at the rate of twentyfive pounds-per acre, without being taken into the computation of the area to be paid for at that rate.
The defendants-deny that there was any agreement, condition, understanding or trust, express or implied, between
the United States, or any of their officers, agents or trustees,
.and the original proprietors or vendars; or that any thing
was given out or promulgated in the form of proposals or
otherwise, either befbre or after the consummation of the
contracts and conveyances by whi-i the lands- were sold
and conveyed for the use of the United States as aforesaid,
impbrting or implying, or in any manner holding out the
idea, hope, or expectation, that the lands, or any part or parcel of the same, should b.e perpetually and inalienably retained as public propert), or dedicated to any particular
object of public improvement; or that the general declaration of use should be limited, and restrm~ned, so as to control
the discretion of the govcrniment or'congress of the United
States in the use or application of the property. Except
that these defendants have heard and believe, that at a very
early stage in the adjustment of the plan of the .city, the
two principal quarters of the city, and the particular appropriations of ground for the sites of the president's house
and, executive departments and capitol, were dosignated, and
an implied pledge of the public faith ,vas held out, not
merdly'to the original proprietors, but to the public in general, that those great improvemeits should be permanently
distributed and seated ; but as to all the residue -of the lands
so purchased for the use of the United States, it was to remain at the absolute disposal of congress.
The defendants have been informed, and believe, that the
intent and, bbject for keeping such extensive reservations of
land in the heart of the city unappropriated, were to leave
the hands of the government unfettered, and its discretion
uncontrolled to dispose of such reservations in furtherance
of such future and contingent purpopes and views of improvement, ornament, or utility, a were not' contemplated
VOL. IV.-2F

SUPREME COURT.
[Van Ness and Wife vs. The City of Washington and United States.]

or provided for in the original plan; and to leave the government at full liberty to modify and improve such plan according to such future and contingent views. That the practice
of the government, its .officers, agents and trustees, has
always been conformable to this view of the uses and objects
to which it was originally destined. If any of the reservations have received names as if appropriated to particular
objects, they'have been merely popular and arbitrary; and
not from any authority, or founded on any pledge or trust,
public or private, that they should be so appropriated.
Whenev6r the public convenience has been thought io require it, the lands have been applied without regard to such
popular and arbitrary designations, or to any such terms.or
conditions as the complainants pretend. That the specific
purposes and objects designated in t'he act of congress for
the application of the proceeds, are of the first importance and'
highest public utility, in reference to the primary. design of
laying out and embellishing a splendid, populous, and w6ll
order6d capital ;.which was to be reclaimed from wasted -tobacco fields and noxious morasses ; -and that without the improvements to be accomplished by these means, the city
never can fulfil the ends nand purposes for which it had been
selected, as the permanent seat of government.
The corporation, answering for themselves, further say, tat
withbut delay.a board of five commissioners was organized
for thie purpose of carrying into execution the act of 1822,
according to certain directions in .the act, and in the ordinance of the corporation: that the commissioners did-proceed to lay offthe parcels of ground into squares and building
lots, and proceeded to make sale of some of them, when they
were stopped by the injunction issuec. at the prayer of the
coniplainants. When the same was dissolved, they again proceeded, and have disposed of the greater part of the same, and
intend with all convenient speed to dispose of the residue.
Of all which actings and doings, they are prepared to render
an account, when they shall be so required and directed.
The complainants filed a general replication ; and after
argument, the circuit court dismissed the bill with costs.
The complainants appealed to this court.

JANUARY TERM 1830.

243

[Van Ness and Wife vs. The City of Washington and United States.]

The case was argued'by Mr Coxe and Mr Taney for the
appellants; and by Mr Berrien, attorney general, for the
United States; and by Mr Jones and Mr Wirt, with whom
was MrrWebster, for the corporation of Washington.
,fr -Coxe, for the appellants, stated, that the claim of the
appellants was founded -on the admitted original right of the
ancestor. of Mrs Van. Ness in the premises, and upon the contracts and conveyances by which- he parted'with these lands.
It-is contended :
1. That these conveyances and contracts did not vest in
the United States an absolute and -indefeasible titleb but
paqsed an imperfect and qualified eslate, to which certain"
trusts and conditions were annexed, intimately connected
and interwoven with the title; and the"condition having been
broken,-and.the trusts violated or run'out, the estate granted
has terminated.
2. If such should not be deemed the legal result from the
facts in the case, the complainants will contend; that according to the only. fair interpretation -which can be given to the
contracts in question, these premises -mustnow be considered
as if originally converted into building lots,-and to"be equally:
divided between the government and the original proprietor.
Or,
3. That if the interest vested in the United States couldnot be divested without an actual sale to individuals, then,
under one aspect of the case or 'another, the plaintiff:xmust
be entitled to the whole ora moiety of the proceeds.
It is admitted that 'the soil "originally'belonged to David
Burns, the father of the complainant Mfarcia, This could
only be'divested by his voluntary act; The right of sovereignty before the cession was in the state of Mhryland.
The first article, section eighth, of the constitution of the
United States, gives to congress the right of exclusive jurisdiction over .the district ; and in other cases. Under this
clause, the right of sovereignty over the district is in the ge-.
neral government, and'under the second section the right is
recognized to:pcquire real property for certain designated
and stipulated purposes.

SUPREME COURT.
[Van Ness and Wife vs. The City of Washington and United States.]

It is a fair inference from this part of the constitution, that
if congress can constitutionally acquire the ownership of piroperty within any particular state, its rights are simply ihose
of an individual; and the assent of the states must concur
before the sovereign power can be vested. This is specifioally provided for, as to the district of Columbia, by the cessions of Maryland and Virginia. Burch's Dig. 213, 218, 219.
Under these acts, as sovereign, congress has no right in or
connection with private property, further than the states
held, which ceded their jurisdiction. The rights of the
United States are derived from individual authority, and are
not granted by the states.
The whole found'ation then of the government title to the
real estate in the district of Columbia, rests upon compact
with individual proprietors. All the powers which can be
lawfully exercised over the property, must be derived from
the same source. No rights can thus be created which the
former owner did not himself possess.
The private compacts and conveyances which confer this
right, must be subject to the same rules of interpretation and
construction, as if they were contracts between private citizens. The government, in making these contracts, descends
from its sovereign elevation, lays down its privileges and prerogatives, and places itself in all respects, as to right, upon a
level with the individual citizen.
2. What then is the character, and what the terms of the
conveyance and agreement under which the controversy
arises .
Under the powers reposed in him by law, president Washington, having selected a site for the contemplated city, met
the proprietors of the land covered by it on the 12th of April
1791, Burch's Dig. 332, when he made to them certain proporitions, and explained his views relative to the same. The
owners generally came to an agreement,. which formed the
basis of the various deeds of trust which were executed immediately after.
The.language of this agreement is peculiar and unambiguous. The president is autnorised " to retain any number
of squares, &c. he may think proper for public improve-

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Van Ness and Wife vs. The City of Washington and United States.]

ments, or other public uses." The form of the conveyance
is not alluded to, neither is' the extent of the estate to be
granted ; the object exclusively regarded is the purpose for
which the land is to be retained.
Tfiis agreement may be considered, in connexion with the
legislative acts and the conveyances, as the contract between
the parties. 4 Wheat. 656. It contains the stipulations
which were to be executed by formal conveyances.
The conveyances to Beall and Gantt, the trustees, will
be found to correspond with this agreement. The language
of those conveyances is, "to the said Beall and Gantt, ana"
the survivor of them, and the heirs of such survivor :" the
habendum is in these words, "to have and to hold the hereby bargained and sold lands, with their appurtenances, unto
the said Beall and Gantt, and the survivors of them, and
the heirs of such survivor, to and for the special trust following, and no other, &c. And this trust is created by these
words : "andthe said.Beall and Gantt, or the survivor of
them, and the heirs of such survivor, shall convey to the
commissioners, &c. and'to their successors, to the use of the
United States for ever, all the said streets, and .uch of the
said squares, parcels and lots, as the president shall deem
lproperfor the use of the United States."
It is obvious that the parties considered the contract as
still executory ; no legal title passed to the United States,
or even to the commissioners; but a subsequent conveyance
for this purpose was evidently contemplated. The abolition
of the office of commissioner hs prevented the execution
of this design.
The agreement of the 12th of April 179L must still be
considered as substantially setting out the intentions of the
parties; and although wholly informal, " it is an agreement
showing the intent of the parties, and.therefore sufficient
to declare a use." 4 Mod. 264.
The Maryland act of cession refers to this agreement, as
well as to the conveyance ; and the inquiry is, what. was the
intention of the parties, as the same can be gathered from
the documents referred to !It embraces three distinct species of' property: 1. The'

246

SUPREME COURT.
[Van Ness and Wife vs. The City of Washington and United States.]

public streets. 2. The public reservatipns. 3. The building lots. All the ground within the limits of the city is
comprehended within one or other of these descriptiohs.
The firstwere to be absolutely vested in the government
without any compensation, further than such as should arise
from the enjoyment of this public right of way. The second was to embrace the squares, parcels, and lots, which
the president might~deem proper for the use of the United
States; or, as the original agreement expresses it, " which
the president might deem proper for public improvements,
or other public uses," These were to be paid for at the rate
of twenty-five pounds per acre. 3. The building lots, which
were to be equally divided between. the United States and
the original pfoprietors. All thepremises in controversy in
this case are comprehended within the two first desctiptisns.
If the language employed in this agreement and conveyance can xeceive any precise construction, it means, that the
parties agree to convey, and did convey "such squares, parcels and lots as the president might deem proper for the
use of the United States." If this be ambiguous, all doubt
will be rem9ved by reference to the terms of the agreement,
where.the property, as well as the object of the conveyance,
is specifically described "as lands in any form which shall
be taken for public buildings, or any kind of public improvements," and " for public improvements or other public
uses." These then are the objects of the grant.
Where an agreement. embraces a number of distinct subjects, which admit of being separately executed and closed,
it must be taken distributively ;. each subject being considered as forming the matter of a separate agreement after
it is closed. 11 Wheat. 237, 251. 'Citedalso, 1 Coxe, 270.
Sugden, 209:' 12 Johins. Rep. 436.
It might have occurred that the laud of one proprietor was
appropriated to these public objects, and all that of another
to building squares. "The construction then to be given to
the various matters must be the same as if three distinct
conveyances had been executed after the plan of the city had
been adopted, and with a specific appropriation of each portion of the premises.

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Van Ness and Wife vs. The City of Washington and United States.]

A conveyance then of a particular tract of land to the
United States "for public improvements or other public
uses," " for public buildings or any kind of public improvements," or "for a street," would have fixed beyond a doubt
the purpose to which tle subject conveyed was to be applied, and would have constituted an agreement of the most
solemn obligatory character.
S. Having ascertained the substance of the agreement, it
is immaterial whether we consider the contract as creating a
charity, a trust, an estate upon condition, a dedication to the
public, or any thing else of a similar character.
In Englhnd it would have been deemed a charity. 4Ves.
543. 7 Johns. Ch. Rep. 292. 5 Harr. & John. 392.' Z6
'Harr. & John. 1. It is immaterial that we have no statute
similar to that of 43 Elizabeth.
The object and effect of that statute appear to have been
to give validity to certain dispositions of property, which
otherwise would- have been void. If, in the cases put, the
will required the aid of the statute, such was its operation.
If in this case, the assistance of\a similar statute should be
deemed necessary, it must be on the principle that, at com-'
mon law, the conveyance would be void. If, however, no
assistance is thus required, or should the various statutes
under which these arrangementg have been made legalis.
them, the trusts'designated are valid as a charity.
But a charity must .be accepted upon the same terrps upon
whi'ch it is given, or it must be relinquished to the right heir;
for it cannot be altered by any new agreement between the
heirs of the donor and the donees. 4 Wheat. Ap. 15.
Finch, 222: 3 Merivale, 400, 401, 417.
Considering it as a condition annexed to the grant,
that the land should be appropriated to "public buildings,"
or "othbr public uses," the result would be the same.
By the aisposition the government has made of the piemises, the sale.of all its interests to individuals, it has misapplied this property, and deprived itself of the power to
perform the condition. Such a misapplication was held in
Porter's case to give to the heir of the donor a right of entry. [ Rep. 16.

SUPREME COURT.
[Van Ness.and Wife vs. The City of Wsbington and United States.]

The interest created. is, however, ag well from the nature of it, as from the terms employed, nothing more than
a trust in some of its modifications.
The contract is entirely executory in its character. It
indicates the general object of a conveyance thereafter to
be made. I Even the deeds from the proprietors to the trustees were but a part execution of the agreement. They
contemplated another instrument to convey the legal title to
the United States.
The conveyance to the trustees being a deed of bargain
and sale, the estate of the United States under it could he
nothing more than an equitable one.
It is a settled principle, that no use to be executed by the
statute, by force of such a conveyance, .can be declared,excepting to the bargainee. 3 Johns. 383. 4 Cruise's Dig.
494.. 16 Johns. 302.
To the whole extent of this controversy the contract is
still executory, and completely within the control of a court
of chancery; who in framing a conveyance will make it
correspond with the intention of the parties.
This intention is to be collected from the original agreement. It is clearly established that without any strict adherence to the forms of instruments, the intent of the parties
will operate. '4 Mod. 264. 2 Atk. 577, 58Z 1 P. Wins,
123. 1 BrQ. P. C. 288. 3 Bro. P. C. W1, 33. 3 Com. Dig.
487.- 1 Jac. & Walk. 550. 1 Prest. on Est.
The beneficial interest upder these instruments in the
United States, is clearly an executory equitable interest. It
rests in fii, and the court will endeavour to ascertain the
design of the parties in relation to the extent of this interest,
and measure their rights by such intention. All trusts are,
.indeed, executory. 1 Cruise's Dig. 489. 1 Prest. 186.
If the view of the intention which has been taken is the
correct one, the premises in question were to be apportioned exclusively to objects of a public character; to public
improvements, or other public uses.
The property has however been diverted from these objects, and has been sold out to individual proprietors, abd is

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Van Ness and Wife vs. The City of Washington and United States.]

now occupied and enjoyed' by them for their private advantage. What then is the result of this misappropriation.!
The rule of equity seems to be, that when the purpose for
which a trust is created, either ceases or never comes into
existence; it is to be considered as if it had never been contemplated. And the benefit of the estate upon which it
has been charged, must result to those to whom the law gives
the estate, in default of disposition by the right owner. This
is the whole foundation of resulting trusts.
Estates vested in trustees, for the purpose of raising money;
if the power is never exercised, or the incumbrance is discharged, the estates granted to the trustees terminate. Estates vested in trustees to preserve contingent remainders; if
the contingency never arises, or the estate in the trustee is
at an end before it occurs, revert to the grantor. 1 T. R.
760. 4 Ves. 60. 2 Ves. 399, 406. 7 Com. Dig. 588. 1
Cruise's -Dig. 475. Prec. in Chan. 541.. 2 P. W. 20. 1
Prest. on Est. 182, 183.
This, sale of the premises amounts to an abuse of the trust;
and it can confer no right on the party abusing it3 or on
those who claim in privity with him. 7 Coin. Dig. 619. 3.
Maule & Selw. 574.
No beneficial interest vested in the trustee's, Beall and
Gantt. They took an estate for the single purpose of conveying it to the commissioners. In the execution of this
power they were bound to regard the intention of the parties,
without any scrupulous adherence to the phraseology of the
conveyance. Whatever might be the nature of the words
of the conveyance to them, nothing more passed to them
than was~necessary to enable them to execute the power confided to them.
If they could now be required to execute that power, and
convey the premises in pursuance of it, in framing tbir deed
they must look to and be governed by the obvious intention
of the parties. Doug. 565, 573. 3 T. R. 665, 674.
If the formal parts of the conveyance should be deemed.
immaterial, and the equitable interests of the parties alone
be regarded, this may be considered as a qualified or base
fee in the premises, in the United States.
VOL. IV.-2 G

SUPREME COURT.
[Van Ness and Wife vs. The City of Washington and United States.]

Qualified or base fees are, substantially, nothing more than
fees upon condition. In general, the qualification is annexed
to the person of the tenant;'but it is not material whether it
was annexed to the land or the person holding the land;
whether the condition should be determined by the tenant
personally, by an act different from that upon.which the estate depended, or by the land being 'discharged of the condition.
In this case, it would be equally immaterial whether the
language of the conveyance made it the personal duty of
the tenant to appropriate the land for the designated piqrposes, or whether it required the land to be so applied. I
Prest. on Estates, 431. The residuary estate is in the grantor. 1 Prest on Est. 117, 156.
Such a grant may well operate as a dedication to public
uses; in which case it would also partake of the qualities of
a trust, and be governed by the rules applicable to trusts.
2.Strange, 100'4. 9 Cranch, 331. 2 Johns. 363. 12 Serg.
& Rawle, 29.
Upon these grounds, or some of them, it is apparent, that
by the operation of the acts of congress, to which reference
has been made, and the sale to the individuals who have purchased, the premises have been discharged of the trust originally created. The public, to whose use they have been
dedicated, have renounced the interest thus created; and
the original proprietors are reinvested with their original
title.
It is objected, that congress possess the powers of govereignty, responsible to the entire people of the union, and
answerable to the nation at large for the manner in which
it discharges its. duties and executes its *powers. This is'
said, to exclude all claims for recompense for the exercise
of these powers, by individuals. To this it is answered,
that such poliical powers may belong to congress, and the
position assumed may be true, so far as the rights of indivi.duals are not by compact connected with the operations of
government. But, when it acts upon individual rights, the
party whose person is violated, or whose property is inyaded,*
is separated from the mass of'the comnmunity; and if his

JANUARY TERM . 830.

251

[Van Ness and Wife vs. Tha City of Washington and United States.]

case be one in which a court may act, he may invoke the
constitution and law for his protection and indemnity.
Compacts may be made by the government, and individuals may acquire rights under those compacts. It is incompatible with our institutions to say, that holding these
rights, government is acting as a sovereign, qnd is responsible only to the nation for its doings.
The property of individuals may be wrested from them
by acts of the government; but it will not do, in a ease where
the law can interpose, that the citizen shall not claim its aid,
because it is a sovereign act.
When government enters into contracts with individuals,
it parts with ils sovereignty. 9 Wheat. 907, In the case of
the United States vs. Barker, the government was held bound
in all proceedings upon bills of exchange to adhere to the
same rules as govern individuals.
According to the general principle's of the law of nations,
the act of cession would not have impaired individual rights.
But the peculiar provisions of the act of cession give this
principle additional sanction; all the right of the United
States to land here, depepds exclusively upon the compacts
made with individuals.
It is then immaterial whether it holds its powers and property in trust for the community or not. The question is,
what is the extent of its property, and its rights to that property; and this cannot be affected by the inquiry for whose
benefit they are holden. They cannot be enlarged or diminished by the circumstance that they are held by a sovereign
power for the general good.
If the appellants are right in their view of the nature of
the estate existing in the premises; if this was a charity, and
the object of the donation was the public; congress, representing that public, may renounce this beneficial interest. If
it is a trust, and the public are the cestui que trust- congress
representing them may relinquish all the advantages secured
to the community. If it is a dedication to the public; congress may discharge the estate of this servitude or easement.
While it is conceded that congress, in the exercise of their
power over the public property, are absolute, and are res-

SUPREME COURT.
[Van Ness and Wife vs. The City of Washington and United States.]

ponsible only to the nation; the legal effect or operation of
such renunciation is wholly disconnected with any question
of sovereignty.
It is objected that .the original pioprietors have been paid
a full price for the. lands in controversy. It is not considered as bf any moment how this fact was. In determining
what was conveyed, what 'estate did, pass; the question- of
what was paid for it is an immaterial one. The party was
paid for what he conveyed; he received his compensation
for what he granted; but the question still recurs, what did
pass by the conveyance. No court can enlarge or diminish
"theeffect of the granting part of a deed by referring to the
amount of consideration, and deducing from that any rule
of interpretation.
It is also insisted, that the beneficial purposes to which
the proceeds of these sales are applicable, are fatal to this
claim. These can have no effect upon the question really
involved in this case. However judicious th&appropriation
of the proceeds arising from a violated trust, it will not influence the inquiry whether it was violated.
As to the suggestion that the remedy of the appellants
was at law, and not in equity; it is answered, that the act of
congress furnishes the specific remedy by'bill, in the nature
of a petition of right; and if the case presents a trust, it is
peculiarly within the guardianship of a court of chancery.
Whether there is in this proceeding a misjoinderof parties will depend upon the result of the case. The corporation of Washington, acting under the act of congress, sells
the land, and receives and applies the proceeds. If an ac,count is'to be directed, it is the orfly party which can furnish
one.
It is also.submitted, "thatthe only effect of sustaining this
objection' would be a decree in favour of the corporation.
The consequences of a misjoinder in chancery are very different from what they are at law, in an action ex contractu.
The parties, appellants, have a beneficial interest in the
continued devotion of the property to public uses, which a
court can notice. 4 Wheat. 630,-641, 697. The proprietors
of every lt are interested in the size of the streets, and in

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Van Ness and Wife vs. The City of Washington and United States.]

their direction ; in the situation of public squares, and in the
location of public institutions and buildings.
The original proprietors are especially interested. 1. In
diminishing the number of building lots thrown into market.
2. By the enhanced value of their remaining property, in
consequence of its vicinity to a public square, or fronting on
a commodi6us street.
Such was the intention of all the parties to the compacts
and arrangement, relative to the city of Washington; and
this fully appears from all the circumstances of the case, as
well as from the language employed.
The act of congress of July 1790, the only act passed before the execution of the instruments, did not authorise thQ
purchase or acceptance of pr6perty in general, and without
limit. The third section authorises, the' commissioners to
purchase or accept such quantity of land within the district,
as the president might deem proper for the use of the United
States. The fourth" section empowers the president to accept grants Of money to defray the expenses of such purchases, and of erecting the necessary buildings. There is
nothing in this act relating to the city, or the plan of the
city, to public streets, or to reservations for city objects.
No authority is-given even relative to the building lots,
considered -as real estate conviyed to the government. The
building lots never were conveyed to the United States.
They were granted to trustees, a moiety of them to be regranted to the proprietors, and the residue to be sold: and
after deducting so much from the proceeds as would- pay the
-former proprietor twenty-five pounds per acre, the residue
was to go. to the United States, as a donation in money; the
objects to which the money was to be appropriated being
specifically designated.
The act of the legislature of Maryland of 1791 conforms
to this view of the case.
The president and the commissioners are by the act of
congress invested with, special powers, which they cannot
transcend; and it appears that either the estate conveyed
must be strictly in accordance With those powers, or that
the instruments of conveyance are void. The authority is

SUPREME COURT.
[Van Ness and Wife vs. The City of Washington and United States.]

vested in them in affirmative words, and this is equivalent to
a negation of any other authority. 2 P. Wins, 207.
'A. review of the various acts of congress passed subseqiuently, shows that-the government never contemplated that
*the'contract was susceptible of the interpretation now the
subject of complaint. Mr Coxe here cited and commented
on theacts of May 6, 1796, April 18, 1798, April 24, 1800,
January 12, 1809, and July,5, 1S12: and contended, that
these various legislative acts conclusively settled the interpretation of the contract, and showed that the signification
attached to the phrase, " use of the United States," was
synonymous with "public purposes," and other similar forms
of expression. A resolution of congress in the session of
1804 is io the same effect.
But the government 'has in fact paid nothing for these
,lands. The various instruments between the parties, and
the various acts of congress already cited,'show that each
proprietor whose lands were appropriated to public purposds was to recover the compensation of twenty-five pounds
per acre, out of the proceeds of the building lots selected
on his own tract. No other fund was pledged, and this was
the practical construction- placed Upon thie compact by the
,commissioners.
Mr Wirt, and Mr Jones; argued the case for the corporation of the city of Washington.
Mr Wirt contended, that there was but one aspect in
which the bill of.the appellants presents a case which is
within the jurisdiction of the court. It is that in which it
asks a partition of the proceeds of the sales of the lots. The
only substantial defendant is the United States, and the
United States being a sovereign, cannot be sued.
It is said that. the act of congress of 1-22 dispenses with
this sovereignty, and permits this suit. This is true, so far as
the act does dispense with the sovereignty., but no further.
The terms of the law are to be carefully observed. The dispensation is a limited one. It permits a suit for the proceeds; and the court cannot assume jurisdiction beyond this
point. So much. of the bill, therefore, as seeks to enjoin the

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Van Ness and Wife vs. The City of Washington -nd'United States.].

United States from letting lots, or asks for a decree for th6
land specifically, is coram nonjudic6.
It did not require a plea to raise this question of jurisdiction; for the want of jurisdiction is apparent on the bill.
On the face of the bill, the court will see- that the United
States is the only material defendant; and the bill refers
expressly to the act of 1822, as the authority for the proceedings. That act thus becomes a part of the bill- it authorises a suit for no other purpose, and to no other extent,
than to ascertain whether the defendants be entitled to any
part of the proceeds.
As to dismissing the bill against the United States, and
retaining it against the corporation.. Can this be done .
The act of 1822 declares, that the proceedings shall be conducted according to the principles of equity; and can a
court of equity proceed to a decree in the absence.of~a material party?
But it is clear, that the corporation is merely the organ
of the government under the act of 1822;. and thus a limited agency, confined to the selling of the lots, and applying
the proceeds under the sqlc, is in the corporation. Can the
agent of a 'sovereign b.e stied for the purpose of stripping
the sovereign of his rights of property.
Again, what'decree could be rendered against the corporation . Could there be a decree for this property ' The
corporatiQn has no right of property. .It is not even an
agent of the government to defend the p-roperty in a judicial proceeding; its agency being limited to the special
ministerial acts designated by the laidf 1822.
Under what principles thfen which iegulate.the proceedings of courts of equity, could a decree' for this property
pass against the corporation of the city of Washington.
Of what avail would such a decree be against the United
States'? Decrees bifid those only who are parties and privies; and if the bill be dismissed against the United States
for want of jurisdiction, in *whvatsense could they be said to
.be parties or-privies to the suit which 'vould rcinai'u against
the corporation.! Tha corporation -claim no rights of property, and are entrusted with no agp.cy to defend this suit;

SUPREME .COURT.
[Van Ness add Wife vs. The City of Washington and United States,]

they are the mere servants of the government in performing
the ministerial acts presented by the law of 1822.
We might well insist that the whole bill should be dismissed, as'not conforming in its character to the only bill
permitted by-the law to be settled by the appellants. But.
it is the interest of all parties that this controversy shall be
terminated.
There is, it is repeated, but a single aspect in which this
case can be regularly presented; it is that it shall be considered a bill in the nature of a partition of right, claiming
the proceeds of the sales.
In deciding this question the court must necessarily decide, incidentally, on the title of the complainants to the property. If they have a right to half the proceeds, it can only
be because, on some principle of law or equity, they show
title to half the property.
2. Are the complainants entitled to twe proceeds or to any
portion of them . This must depend upon the contract under
which the original proprietor parted with the property and
conveyed it to the United States.
If he parted with the property sub modo; if there was
any condition in the contract that it should be applied to a
specific use, and that, if not so applied, it should return to
it has- not been
the original owner, or to his heirs : then, Jif
so applied, the claimants are entitled to th proceeds. But
if the conveyance to the United States was absolute, and for
a good and full consideration, and the indication of the use
was referred by the terms of the cqntract to the pleasure of
the United States ; then it - must. be manifest that the com,plainants are not so entitled. "
It would seems that the opinion that the complainants are
entitled to some part of these proceeds, has arisen from confounding the case with others reported in the books, to which
it bears no just resemblance; but from-which it is distinguished.by circumstances Which withdraw it entirely from the influence-of those decisions.
Thus, cases are cited of charities, which are free gifts of
property, dedicated on the face of the instrument itself, which
made the gift to a special use,-free gifts, in which the do-

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Van Ness and Wife vs. The City of Washington and United States.]

nor had been induced to make them by no pecuniary interest, but which .proceeded solely from his disinterested
bounty and charity.
But these reservations were not free gifts. They were
sales founded on a most valuable consideration, in which the
vendor had most important pecuniary interests at staka; and
this consideration was of a twofold character. 1. The establishment of the federal city on their lands, which has made
the desert smile. 2. The direct consideration of twenty-five
.pounds paid for every acre of these reservations.
The cases of charities have therefore no application; because these were not gifts, but purchases. They have no application ; because here there was no dedication on the face of
the instrument to any specific use, but that was left open and
was placed soleiy'at the pleasure of the United States.
Nor is there any trust, express or implied, raised on the
face of the contract, in behalf of the original proprietors,nor
any use for them; the whole trust and use being for the: benefit of the United States.
Neither is there seen in the case a single feature which
brings it in any degree within the range of those cases which
have been cited of estates granted on condition, or of cases
of determinable fees. For here is no condition annexed to
the grant, unless it may be regarded as a condition that the
property is to be applied to the use of the United States; a
condition, .in the dud performance of which the original proprietor had no other interest than any other citizen of the
United States. Nor is there any thing which makes this a
defeasible or determinable fee ; because the fee is in perpetuity to the United States.
The argument on the other side proceeds entirely on tlfese
two propositions. 1. That this was a free gift of property on
the part of Mr Burns. 2. That it was a gift for a specific
purpose; and that this specific purpose having been entirely
given up, Mr Burns, or his representatives, are entitled to a
return of the property.
Now, on the other hand, if it appears; 1. That this is not
a free gift, but a sale for a valuabre consideration, which has
VOL. IV.-2 H

SUPREME COURT.
[Van Ness and Wife vs. The City of Washington and United States.]

been received by the grantor; on this single ground, then,
there must be an end of this claim.
9.If it shall farther appear that it was not even a sale for a
specific use, but for the use generally of the United States,
there must be an end to all pretension of claim. And the
truth of these latter propositions will rsult from an inspection
of the contract, and a steady look at the real character of the
case ; and at the circumstances out of which the contract
grew, and with relation to which it is to.be construed.
This was not a gift, but a sale for a valuable consideration which has been paid, and this consideration.was two
fold. 1. The establishment of a federal city on these lanls.
2. The receipt of twenty-five pounds per acre for the reservatioh.
The establishment of a federal city on the lands. This
feature alone distinguishes this case from all others which.
have been cited from the English or American books.
Was not this a valuable consideration ? not an empty,
speculative, imaginary consideration, but one real and solid;
one which suddenly conyerted these exhausted and unprodue.tive tobacco fields into mines of almost countless opulence.
The value which was given to the property of former
owners, is fully shown by the history of.the poriod when the
1ocsio.n of the federal city was about to be made. It was
in the power of the presideait to fix the site of the city
where he should decide. He could have put it where it
now i , or have gone -to Georgetown, and there erected the
public buildings.
Every public bodyj and every private individual who in
'those days touched this subject, has left us proofs of the in.terQst which the land holders were expected to take and did
take in the important question of the precise location of the
city; 'and have thereby borne testimony of the reality and
value of the consideration. Act of congress of the 16th of
July 1790. Burch's Dig. 226. Act of the legislature of
Maryland of the 19th bf December 1791.
Suppose-the whole of the land on which the'city stands

JANUARY TERM 1830.
EVan Ness and-Wife vs. The City of Washington and United States.)

had been purchased by the United States before the location
of the city, and paid for by twenty-five pounds per acre out
of the public treasury, and such a deed had been taken as
that which has been executed, a conveyance in trust to the
United States; could the vendor have any colour of right
to restrict the United States as to any use of the property
thus purchased.
Suppose the property had been condemned by inquisition
under the law of Maryland, to the use of the city of Washington ; could it possibly be contended that the former proprietor would retain any control over the property, or its
application, the land being paid for out of the public treasury. Now, if it be true that if the property is paid for by
the United States; either by voluitary contract, or by writ
of ad quod damnum, the former proprietor would cease to
have any control over it; what is there in the mode of payment which was adopted, and the benefits which he received,
to vary the rights of the parties!
It is urged that as the payment was made out of the funds
of the ancestor of the complainants, the reservations were
virtually free gifts. *Now, there was nothing in the case
which.deserves the name of a free gift; for the establishroent
of the city was a consideration which produced the whole
increased value of the property.
By the parties themselves it was never pretended that
these reservations were a gift o6 the face of the deed itself;
they are treated as bargained and sold to the use of the
United States ;,and nothing is pretended to be a donation,
except so much as shall remain of the proceeds of the sales
of the alternate lots, after the payments for the reservations
have been made.
But suppose that the money which was produced by the
sales of the lots and was paid for the reservations, is to be
considered" as a gift of money by the original proprietors; is
not money so given as absolutely the property of the United
States as if it had been raised by a tax 1.- That such gifts
would be made was anticipated by congress, gifts in consideration of the establishment of the city on tfe lands of the
proprietors.

260

SUPREME COURT.
[Van Ness and Wife vs. The City of Washington and United States.]

But it is said, that the proceeds of those lots were a gift
of money for a limited purpose; that is, for the purpose of
its being applied-to pay for these reservations, at the rate of
twenty-five pounds per acre ; and these were to be purchased
for a specific use, from which the UnitedStates have departed by the act of 1822. Such is not the agreement; nor
the-deed which was to give effect to the agreement.. The
agrdement is to be taken all together, not distributively.
Mr Berrien, attorney general, for the United States, stated,
that by the act of congress of 1822, it was made his official
duty to represent the interests of the United States in this
case.
The act authorises the circuit court to entertain jurisdiction of a bill in equity in the nature of a petition of right
against the United States; to hear and determine upon the
claim of.the appellants; and to determine what proportion,
if any, of the money arising from the sale directed by the
act they are entitled to.. The purpose of the government
in passing the law is fulfilled by meeting the claim on its
merits.
The bill states that the United States had no right, without the consent of the complainants, to dispose of the lands
directed to be sold by the law: that sach a disposition of
them determines the trusts and revests the property in the
original proprietors, or their representatives ; or that at their
option the trusts originally declared, attach to the property
so transferred, or to the proceeds arising from the sale.
It is not necessary in this proceeding to consider the question of forfeiture. If such an effect was produced by the
act of 1822, the complainants 'have their remedy against
the purchasers tinder the act. They have, however, relinquished that ground; and they seek relief against the United
States under the special provisions of the law ; thus affirming the sale and seeking a dividend of the proceeds of the
sale.

But in any view of the case the circuit court had no jurisdiction to hear and detetmine such a claim; and the only
question presented for the consideration of this court, and

JANUARY- TERM 1830.
[Van Ness and Wife vs. The City of Washington and United States.]

which was properly before the court below, is, whether the
.complainants, coming in, and assenting to the appropriation
of the lands made by the act of 1822, are entitled to a moiety
of the proceeds of the sales.
These propositions are maintained on the part of the
United States. 1. The legal effect of the conveyance from
DaviciBurns to Thomas Beall, of George and Johin M. Gantt,
and by the latter to the commissioners of Washington, was to
divest David Burns and his heirs of all right, title, and interest in the several squares or parcels of land selected for the
use of the United States.
2. The deed from David Burns to Thomas Beall and John
M. Gantt conveyed the legal estate of David Burns to all the
lands held by him within the limits of the contemplated city,
to those persons," to have andto hold," to them and the survivor of them, and the heirs of sych survivor for ever, on
certain special trusts: among which were the fQllowing, to
convey to the commissioners of Washington, &c. and their
successors, to the use of the United States for ever, and for
the consideration of twenty-five pounds per acre, the lands
which are the subject of this controversy; all which they
covenanted to do.
In the execution of this trust, and in the fulfilment of their
covenant, Thomas fleall and John M Gantt did convey to
the commissioners. The legal title to the lands then'became
vested in the commissioners, in'trust, to hold that portion of
them which is now in controversy, for the use of the United
States.
In equity the title became absolutely vested in the United
States. 1 Eden, 226. For the limitations of trusts are to be
construed the same as those-of legal estates. C.Com. Dig.
1006.
It was in the eye of equity a grant to, the United States
for. ever. Such a grant vests the fee. -A grant to the king
in perpetuum gives him a fee, without the words heirs or
successors ;for he never dies. So also is the law as to a
grant to a corporation aggregate. 4 Com. Dig. 12. 2 Bab.
Ab. 536.
If this. were not so, the continuance of any right, title, or

. 262

SUPREME COURT.
[Van Ness and Wife vs. The City of Washington and Unite-d States.]

interest. in David Burns or his heirs, was inconsistent with
the authority under which the purchase was .made; .which
being special, created by a public law, and therefore known'
to the vendor, the conveyances given and received must be
construed in reference to it. The act of congress under
which the purchase was made is to be taken as part of the
contract.
The commissioners were authorised to purchase or accept
lands within-the district for the use of the United States;
they were moreover authorised to accept grants of money.
Under this latter authority they entered into a contract between the United States and the original proprietors for the
division of those building lots.*
But it was in the execution of their power topurchase, for
the use of the United States, that they did purchase the reservations selected by the president, and paid for them at
the rate of twenty-five pounds per acre.
These they we're required to purchase for the use of the
United States-for their,sole use. They were not authorised
in relatiop to these lands to admit any community of interest. . They had simply the power to purchase or accept;
but in either case,for the use of the United States; not for
the joint use of the United States, and any other persons.
The preliminary agreement expressly negatives the idea of
such joint us- or joint property in the United States and
the former proprietors.
It was a power to purchase-for the use of the United States
generally, without a specification of the purposes to which
the land should be applied, or any limitation whatever upon
the direct and absolute dominion which the United States
were to acquire by the" purchase.
Would an express stipulation that the United States should
hold these squares in perpetuity, as-such, without power to
appropriate them to any purpose, have been pursuant to the
authority under which the commissioners acted ! They were
authorised And directed to purchase such lands as the president should deem proper for the use of the United States.
Can such a stipulation be implied from a grant to the use of
the United States '. But if it could, me implication must be

JANUARY TERM 1830.
TVan Ness and Wife vs. The City of Washington and United States.]

extended further. From a grant to the use of the United
States without qualification, absolutely, and for ever; you
must imply, 1. That .the United States must be for ever
restrained in the use of the thing granted to thespecifid
purpose to which it was applied at the date of the grant.
2. That a breach of this condition would raise a new trust
for the benefit of the United States and the original proprietors or their representatives. It would not operate as a
forfeiture; but it would raise a new trust for the joint benefit
of the parties, absolute in its terms.
From a grant to the United States, a condition is implied,
and then a breach of that condition; which, however, does
not-operate a forfeiture, but serves as the basis of a new
trust, to be raised 'by implication for the joint benefit of the
United States and the original proprietors.
3. Construing the contract according to its' plain import
and intent, there is no equity in the complainants' claim.
The proprietors conveyed to Beall and Gantt certain
lands, which were to be laid out as a city, with such streets
or squares, parcels or lots, as the president of the United
States should approve, on certain trusts. 1. To convey to
the commissioners of the'city of Washington, and their successors, for the use of the United States, for ever; all the
streets, and such of the squares, parcels, and lots, as the
president should deem proper for the use of the United
States. 2. Of the esidue of the lots, one half were to be
reconveyed to the original proprietors. 3. The other moiety
was to be sold Under the direction of the president; and the
proceeds, after paying twenty-five pounds per acre for the
lots, squares, and parcels taken for the use of the United
States, were to be paid over to the president as a grant of
money to be applied for purposes, and according to the act
of congress " for establishing the temporary and permanent
seat of. government of the United States.'J
The reiult of this was, that the land conveyed, or so much
of it as was necessary, being laid out in a city, the United
States were to take to their own separate'use, 'or ever, such
squares, parcels or'lots as the president should prefer,
and to pay therefor twenty-five pounds per acre,; the re-

SUPREME COURT.
[Van Ness and Wife vs. The City of Washington and United States.]

maining lots to be divided between the United States and
the original proprietors. The streets were of course given
up without compensation. One moiety of the remaining
lots, and any lands not included in the city, to be conveyed
to the original proprietors; the other.moiety to be sold as
has been stated.
The appellants pretend that the lots and parcels taken
for the use of the United States, and paid for at the rate of
twenty-five pounds per acre, must be retained as squares, or'
as the sites of public buildings, or for other public works;.
and cannot be sold to individuals for building lots, without
entitling the appellants to a moiety of the purchase money.
It is contended that there is no equity in this claim. 1.
Because excluding the adscititious value given to the property of the original proprietors by the location of the city
as the seat of government, a full price was paid by governrment for the land. .2. As against the United States the
proprietors have no right to make any claim, on account of
this factitious value. 5. Independently of the consideration paid per acre fo" the lands appropriated to the United
States, the proprietors by the sale of the moiety of the building lots, which were reconveyed to them, were liberally
compensated.for their property. 4. It was expressly denied
in the answer, and no contradictory testimony is offered,
that the lands reserved from sale and appropriated to the
use of the United States, were so reserved to be appropriated, or under a pledge to appropriate them to any specific
purpose whatever, except the sites of the capitol and president's house. 5. No such pledge was necessary to secure
to the original proprietors an advantageous sale of the
moiety ofthe lots reserved to them ; for the interests of the
United States concurred in not overstocking the market, as
they were entitled to the proceeds of the sales of the other
moiety. 6. Such a pledge would have been much more
strongly implied in behalf of the purchasers, or individual
lot holders, the value of whose acquisitions might be affected in various ways by laying off the reservations into building lots.
But both and all claims must yield to the right of the

JANUARY TERM 1830.
*[Yan Ness and Wife vs. The City of Washington and United States.]

United States, to dispose as congress may think proper,
of that to which an unconditional title had been acquired;
and the interests of all were'secured by the consideration
that the government had a deeper interest than any individual could have in.the prosperity of the city.
7. It wds a fund reserved for the future improvements of
the -ity. Improvements would be required, and tie quantity
resLived lroves that this was the object of the reservation.
The attorney genbral then went into an examination of
the practice which had prevailed under the acts of congress,
in relation to the- city of Washington; and contended that
it had been in accordance with the views- of the United
States, as nov4 represented by him. He denied, that on any
occasion, a constrdction different from that which he had
given to the contract with the proprietors, and to the laws
relative to the city, had ever been assented to by the government, or by their officers.
Mr Taney, for the appellants, in reply, contended; that
whatever rights congress -or the government had in the
property within the city of Washington, depended on the contraqt with the original proprietors, and not on their rights of
sovereignty. The act of Maryland of 1791 is the act which was
accepted by congress; and all the rights of sovereignty which
can be exercised are derived from that act. They cannot
be greater than those which ware possessed by the former
sovereign'who granted them. If the United States accepted a cession with limited powers of sovereignty, they are
bound by the limitations. They might'have refused the
terms; but having accepted them, they are bound by them.
-The constitution of the, United States declares that congress shall have exclusive legislation; but it does not require
that the power shall be despotic or unlimited. It merely
excludes the states from all interfering legislation.
.The act of 1791, sect. 2i passed by Maryland, limits the
power of congress, and declares'that" the cession shall, give
them no other right in the land than may be transferred by
the individuals. All the rights therefore which the United
States bad or have in. the soil in the district must have been
VOL. IV.-2 I

SUPREME COURT.
[Van Ness and Wife vs. The City of Washington and United States.]

acquired by contract. They can acquire none by the exercise of sovereigh power; for they have surrendered that portion of sovereignty in this district, by accepting it upon the
terms stated.
Deriving their rights from contract with the proprietors;
under no provision in the same, nor under -the act of cession, could they condemn the land for public uses; for that
would not be a transfer from the proprietor, but would be to
acquire it without a transfer from him, and by a mere act of
sovereign power.
MT however, the sovereignty of congress is not limited by
the cession, yet the exercise of despotic power on this subject is restrained by the constitution; and if the law of
1822 was intended to seize on the private property of individuals, and dispose of it for public profit, merely for public
gain, it would be contrary to the letter and spirit of the constitution, and be void. For if they may take it for such a
purpose, they must give the owner of it a fair compensation;
and they have no right to fix that compensation at what they
may sell it for.
But the seizure of the property of an individual, merely to
sell it to another to raise money for any purpose, can hardly
be supposed to be authorised by any principles of a free
government, and is in manifest opposition to the spirit of the
amendment of the constitution. 2 Dall. 314.
But the act of 1822 has -no such object. It proposes to
sell the right of the United States, and no more. It has no
terms to divest the right of the individual owners, and obviously has no such design. It submits these rights to judicial decision, to be tried by the principles -of a court of
equity. In submitting to such a trial and decision, they
place themselves on the ground of contract, and waive any
rights their sovereignty might give. For it would be absurd, indeed, to suppose that the United States gave to the
court the mere power of hearing a cause, when that hearing
could produce no judicial. result.
If congress by mere despotic power might seize and sell
this property, without compensation to the owner, and' if
their will be the only principle 'of equity by which it is to

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Van Ness and Wife vs. The City of Washington and United States.]

be decided; then all this controversy authorised by law' is
nugatory. For in that case we have lost the land by seizure;
and we are not entitled to payment for it, unless they will
it, and as they do not will it in the law, we are sent to this
highest tribunal to show rights which have no existence, as
they have been extinguished by the despotic power of the
sovereignty.
Thewhole frame of the act of congress shows that such
is not the meaning of the law. The court are to decide
according to the principles of equity; and what the equity
may be depends on contract express or implied. The goverriment stands before this tribunal as a suitor;. having the
same rights, and. subject to the same rul6s as an individual.
Assuming the questions in the case to depend on contract;
The agreement between the United States and the proprietors was entered into on the 12th of April 1791. The
deed of conveyance was executed in July 1791. Before this
agreement the site of the city was fixed.
There was no contract as to the location of the city with
the proprietors. Every thing bad been done independently
of the proprietors, and without their consent. The agreement was ambng -the proprietors themselves; neither the
commissioners nor the president are parties to it. It does
not purport to be entered'into in cousideration of the fixing
of the city here, that was done; but, expecting immense advantages, they were willing to make liberal return.
The government are not therefore purchasers -forthis. consideration. -It was merely voluntary on both sides; both
pdrties derived advantages, but not by the contract with.one
another; and if there was no contraci, there was no purchase.
Neither, does the twenty-five pounds per acre paid for the
public ground constitute them purchasers: The agreement
and the deed must be taken together. The United States
were not-'he founders of the city,.but the proprietors. The
president was authorised by the United States to fix on this
site for the seat of the government; and to accept such quantity of land as he should deem proper, for the use of the
United States. In the plan of the city, and in the regulation

SUPREME COURT.
[Van Niss and Wife 6'. The City of Washington and United State6s.]

of the streets, he was the agent of the proprietors, not of the
United.State.. Such was the'opinion of Mr Breckenridge,
attorney gendral of'the United States. Burch's Dig. 337.
Squares, public walks, and grounds for gardens, were re-served; not necessary and proper for the use of the-United
States.
The deed executed-by the proprietors conveyed the land
absolutely and unconditionally, and without the.payment of
any consideration. Nothing is required in retrn; nothing
is reserve'd for the' land dedicated to the use of the United
.States,u'nless it shall be obtaihed from the'sales of the lots
to be disposed of under the contract. This is a deduction
from' the donatioh of the proprietors.. Thus the squares cost
the Uziited States'nothing. '
Had the Whole of the land of'any of the proprietors been
laid. out in squares; he would have received n6thing for the
same. The act of" 1791 'confirms this constructi6n of the
contract, and 'was adcepled by congress.
These being-,the provisions,in the deed, the next-question
is',what is the construction of the instruments by which these
contracts were made,' ! Was the absolute and unqualified
use given or conveyed; or was ihe use'for public purposes, as
aistinguishedfrom private property .
And this question mainly depends on another. What was
the character of the estate conveyed to Beall and Gantt! If
it was a conveyance under the statute of uses, or was ,ah executed trust; the'.words mtist receive a technical construction.
Ifean executory trust, it is otherwise. If it'is' such, is it to be
construed by thd principles applicable "to such contracts?9
Preston on Estates, 186, 187. Fearne, 136, 137. No 'act
oif the trustees can-change the -character of the trust or the
rule of construction.
If Beall and Gantt have conveyed a diffdrent estate from
the one 'uthorised, the conveyance gives no title beyond the
trust. And the case is now to be considered, as-if the Oeurt
of chancery 'were, ih the absehce of any conveyance, called
on to direbt the proper deeds. It is to be executed now as
it would have been the day after the contract wvas made;
lapse of time has not altered'its meatiing.

JANUARY' TERM 1830.

269

tVan Wen and Wife.vs. The City of Washington and United States.]

Suppose chancery so called on, what would be the stipulatiOns direqted in the deed . The objects in view are manifest.
Suppose the government should have abandoned Washington, and fixed itself elsewhere; would they have been
allowed to sell the squares q Suppose they abandon it in part
instead of the whole, does it alter the principle .1
Upon the point that this was an executory trust, Mr
Taney argued; that the conveyance to the trustees, Beall
and Gantt, and by them to the commissioners, did not Vest
the legal title to the public squares in the United States, but
created a trust for their benefit. The trust being an executory
trust, is to be carried into execution according to the intent
of the party who created the trust. Fearne, 124, 136, 137.
Preston on'Estates, 187, 188.
The deed from Mr Burns is'riot therefore to be construed by
technical rules, nor the words of it taken according to their
.stricp legal interpretation; if such a construction appears from
the whole case to be contrary to the intention of the grantor..
The United States are not asserting. a legal title in directing the sqpares to be sold. They are exercising a power as
cestuisque trust over a trust fund; and the extent of their right
in the fund they have submitted to judicial decision. And
although the words'in the deed of Mr Burns might, in a conveyance of the legal estate under the statute, be held to pass
the absolute and unqualified use in the.squares; yet in the
interpretation of a trust ihe court will look to the real intention of the parties, and are not bound by the strict legal
meaning of any particular words used in the instrument:
. The United States have no rights except by transfer from
individuals. Act of 1791, sec. 3. Ins'ubmitting the right to
judicial decision, they subject themselves to the rules which
govern contracts with individuals.
Expounding the deed of Mr Burns on these principles,
it may be safely assumed, that he intended to authorise Beall
and Gantt to convey to the commissioners the squares and
streets, for the purposes authorised by the act which fixed on
Washington as the seat of the government. He did not mean
to authorise a conveyance for any other purpose, nor of any

270

SUPREME COURT.
[Van Ness and Wife vs. The City of Washington and United States.]

greater estate than the United States desired; for his deed
refers to and recites the title of the law of congress.
The question then is, did the-law propose to purchase or
accept as a donation the absolute and unqualified interest in
-the land . or to obtain it for special purposes, and for certain
specified uses!
The first proposition supposes that congress looked forward to a speculation in the land, and expected to gain by
the rise of property. This Could not have been; and such a
presumption is negatived by the terms of the acts of congress.
These different acts of congress have expounded the meaning of the words, "!properfor the use of the United States"
'in the act of 1790; and show for what purposes the president was authorised to accept or purchase land. His authority to accept or purchase land being a special one, and for
special purposes, he could not accept or purchase for any
other purpose; and.if he did, the grant would be void: He
might accept donations of money, but not of land.
But the proprietor obviously intended to convey for the
purposes mentioned in the law, and none other.
This is shown by the argument, proposed March 1791
accepted, April 1791 ; and by the deed of June 29; 1791.
The deed refers to the act of congress, recites its ti)le, and
uses the words of -the law, Streets are associated with
squares, and to be conveyed to the use of the United States.
This being an executay trust, "the court may ascertain
the meaning of-the grantor,"from th nature of the contract
and the object bf the provision. 1 Prest. 187.
The object of the proprietor would not have been to allow
the president to select all or any of the building lots at this
price. He was to be paid out of the sales of the lots. There
might not have'.been lots enough to pay him. Such an intention would have been the surrender of his whole property,
without compensation and without motive.'
The contract then and now means the same thing; and if
such a use of the power of selection, by the president, would
have been at that time contrary to the intention of the
grantor, it is equally so now,
Yet.we- are now. inquiriag what was the intention of the

JANUARY TERM IS30.
[Van Ness and Wife vs. The City of Washington and United States.]

grantor; and being a trust executory, it is to be executed
according to that intention.
It is said that the United States paid its full value. There
is no proof of that fact; and the fact is otherwise.
The consideration on which the squares were sold for
twenty-five pounds, was, that the erection' of the public
buildings, and the laying out of public walks, &c. would
render the city a more agreeableand desirable place of re-

sidence, and enhance the price of the lots retained by the
proprietor.

If he was to retain no lots, or only the refuse

lots, it does not by any means follow that he would have
taken the twenty-five Rounds.
The very case on trial proves that such could not have
been the intention of the proprietor. His lots no longer
front on a magnificent square. He is cut off from the most
public avenue in the city.
The United States are in no sense of the words purchasers. The public squares are in truth, as has been stated,
donations from the proprietors.
But if considered as purchasers, they yet purchase for
a specific purpiose, and having made the contract, they' cannot depart from it. They cannot violate their contract. 5
Wheat. 642, 684, 695.
The grantor is entitled to the execution of his contract,
whether he does or does not receive a consideration for it.
And it matters not whether his contract is express or -implied; whether by way of trust or in.any other manner, as
by mere dedication to-publie uses.
In the case of a'roador street, the same interest passes
to the, public, and the same remains in the proprietor.
Whether he is paid for it or not, no more passes than the
party intended to grant. And if these squares were granted
for specific public uses, and not to be converted into private
pxoperty, that trust, whether created for a valuable consideration or not, must be executed according-to the intention
of the grantor.
The contract is one entire contract; and being executed
in part, must be cxecuted throughout. Being an executory
trust, it must be executed according to the intention of tile

272

SUPREME COURT.
[Van Ness and Wife vs. The City of Washington and United States.]

parties, whether made for a valuable consideration or not.
Marriage is a valuable consideration, and is one class of
the cases in which this principle is moat commonly applied.
Suppose a chancery court nbw called on by the United
States to compel the trustees to execute the legal conveyances, what'would be the conditions and covenants' Would
not the squares be made to revert to the grantor when the
uses ceased .
The lots were pure donations; and equity would not extend the gift farther than the contract. It did not extend to
squares.
Assuming that the public squares were granted for specific
public purposes, as has been stated, the United States were
the cestuis que trust for such purposes, and none others.
The United States had a right to erect public buildings on
them, and to make them public wElks or garcens; they were
so far cestuis que trustj they were vot trustees fbr others.
As this was a trust for the bendfit of the United States,
they had a right to renounce it.
The proprietors could not compel them to erect the public
edifices, or to lay out and ornament tfie public grounds.
They had not bo'bnd themselves by contract to do so; they
might or might not do it aL their pleasure. And they might
renounce the trust intended for their benefit, and the tru'st
would then end; it would. be extinguished.
The act of 1822 is a renunciation of the trust. They, the
cestuis que trust, declare that they will not use it for the
specific purposes for which it was conveyed. It is -not f"
forfeiture. It is admitted that a trust is not forfeited by
its abuse; it is not claimed as a forfeiture; but having renounced it, the trust, in their favour, by directing it to be
converted into private property; tQ whom does the property
belong? It goes to the heirs of the grantor. 4 Yes. 60.
9 Ves. 399. 5 Har. & Johns. 400. 4 Wheat. 39. Append.
15.
If the power exists any where, either in congress or else-'
where, to convert these squares into building lots and private property, under the provisions of the original agreement
and deed ; then, as soon as that power is exercised and the

JANUARY'TERM 1830.

273

LVan Ness and Wirevs. The City of Washington and United Sat(..!.

property so converted, the provisions and stipulations of that"
agreement attach upon it, and the original proprietor'is entifled-to the one half: for whether the power given to.4ay
off the building lots was exercised sooner or later, can make
no difference.
If under the agreement and deed the power can be Tightfully exercised, the consequence of that exercise of, power
must follow; and the original proprietor is entitled to one
half of the lots so laid off, under-and by virtue of his agreement. The act of 1822 is obviously framed on this interpretation of the contract. It directs the corporation to sell the
right of the United States, and then provides for a decision
on these rights.
Congress. obviously supposed, when passing the lawthat
the United States had a 'ight in these lots. And if they had
the power to convert the squares into private property under
the briginal agreement and trdst, then they would have been
tenants in comm6n with the proprietor, and entitled to sell
the half and receiv.e the proceeds.
Upon the whole, if the United States had only the right
to use these squares for specified purposes, and no right to
change the use; if they were merely cestuis *que'trust; they
have renounced the trust, and the whole belongs to the original proprietors; it reverts to the donor or grantor.
If, on the contrar'" they have the right to change the plan
of the city and con ,t the square into building lots, then,
whene;er this is done by a competent authority, acting under the contract, the proprietors are entitled to a conveyance
of one halt of the lots.
The relief: In either view of the case the relief is complete against the corporation.
If the United States could not sell the half, or could not
sell the whole, they could give no right to the corporation
to do so; and" we were entitled to a perpetual injunction
against them. 9 Wheat. 739.
If the law of congress does not authorise the court to decree against the United States as to the land itself, but only
as to the money received on sale, then the bill may be djsVol.. IV.-2 K".

274

SUPREME COURT.
[Van Ness and Wife vs. The City of Washington and United
States.]

missed against them; and a perpetual injunction decreed
against the corporation.
The great object is to have the rights of the parties adjusted, ahd. no doubt can be entertained that congress will
faithfully carry into execution the principles settled by this
court.
But the law of congress gives the court power to decree
against the United States as to the land as well as the money.
The act of 1822, sec. 6, authorises the party tb set out in
his
bill his title to the land. His bill, therefore, brings that question directly before, the court for decision, and imposes
upon them the duty of deciding it; and if they must d6cide
it, it follows that they must give the appropriate relief. And
if the court come to the conclusion that congress had no
right to sell the land, they can have no right to compel the
party to accept money in lieu of it.
.The eighth'section of the act is only an enlargement of
the power of the court. The proprietors might have assented to the sale, and offered to ratify it and acdept the proceeds.
The law of IS22 provided foithis contingency, in the
eighth-section. It enabled the court to dispose, finally,.of
the case, in what6vcr shape it should be presented to them.
Finally, it is a question between the government and'an
individual, on a subject of the most interesting character:
How.far may the government, by a new act of. legislation,
deprive him of his rights of property, and of the remedy
to
iissert them 9 On such a question it may be assumed
as
certain, that the rights of the individual, whatever they may
be, will be protected by this court. It is peculiarly one
of
those questions on which congress, with the best dispositions,
are most liable to error. It is out of the usual scope of
legislation. They cannot be expected to engage in minute
investigation of titles. And they ought not to be held
to
have exercised wilfilly a despotic power, even if they possess
it, for the purpose of depriving a private citizen of a full
and adequate remedy for the wrong done him.
The act of '1822 isin a very different spirit, and requires
the rights! of the parties to be devided bv the terms of the
contract, and -not bypower..

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Van Ness and Wife vs. The City of Washington and United States.1

As to the forms of this proceeding, it is hardly necessary
to discuss them. It is the great object of all parties to
understand their rights, and that is the great purpose of the
whole proceeding. Enough appears on the record to enable
the -courtto. decide on these. There does not appear, however, any well founded objection that can interfere with the
relief we ask.
Mr Justice STotY delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is an appeal from the decree of the circuit court of
the district of Columbia, sitting at Washington, upon a bill
in equity, in which the appellants were original complainants.
On the 7th of May 1822 congress passed an act to authorise and empower the corporation of the city of Washington, in the district of Columbia, to drain the low grounds
on and near the public reservations, and -to improve and
ornament certain parts of such reservations. By that act
the corporation were among other things to change, by contract with the proprietors of the canal, the location of such
parts of the canal passing through the city as lay between
second and seventh streets, west, into such course as should
most effectually, in their opinion, drain and dry the low
ground lying on the borders of Tiber creek; and to effectuate.this object, the corporation were further auth.orised; after
hatving extended the public reservation designated on the
plan of the city as number ten, so as the whole south side
should bind on the line of Pennsylvania Avenue, and after
having caused to be divided the said public reservation
number ten, and also the public reservations numbers eleven and twelve into building lots ; to sell and dispose of
the right of the United States of, in, and to, the said lots, or
any iumber thereof, laid off as aforesaid, at'public sale, &c.
&c. And the corporation was further authorised to cause
to be laid off, in such manner as the president should approve,
two squares south of Pennsylvania Avenue, &c.; and also to
lay off north of Maryland Avenue, two uniform and correspondent squares; and ihe said four squares, when so laid off,
to divide into building lots; and to sell and Uispose of the

276

.

SUPREME COURT.

[Vap Ness and Wife vs. The City of Washington and United States.1

right of the United States in such lots, &c.-&c. 'The proceeds of these sales were in the first place -to be applied to
the'purposes above mentioned, and in the next place'to incl~sing, planting, or otherwise improving certain public
reservations, and building certain bridges,. &c. &c. ; and the
surplus, if any, to go into the national treasury. The sixth
section of the act then proviaes, "that it shall be lawful for"
the legal representatives of any former proprieto.r of the land
directed to be disposed of by this act, or persons lawfully
claiming title under them, and 'they are hereby permitted
and authorised, at any time within one year from the passing of this act, to institute a bill in equity, in'the nature of
a petitionof right, against the United States, in the circuit
court for the district of Columbia, in which they may set
forth the grounds of their claim to the land in question."'
The seventh section provides for the service of process, upon,
and the appearance of the attorney general, &c. The eighth
section provides, "that the said suit shall be conducted according to the rules of a court of equity. And the said
court shall have full power and authority to hear and deteimine upon the claim, of the plaintiff or plaintiffs, and what
proportion, if any, of the money arising.fromthe sale of the
land herely directedto be sold, the parties may be entitled
to." The ninth and last section of the act povides for an
appeal to this court.
The plaintiffs- filed their bill iin the present'case within the
time prescribed .by the act, making the United States and
the corporation of the city of Washington parties. They
claim title to the lands in controversy, which have been laid
off into lots for sale, under David Burns, one of the original
proprigtors of the city, and of whom the plaintiff Marcia is
the only daughter and heir. These lots embrace part of the
reservations above referred to, and also a part of the street
called B, according to the original plan of the city. The
ground of the bill is, that by the original contract of the
government with the proprietors, upon .the laying out of
the city, these reservations and streets were for ever to remain'for public use, and were incapable, without the consent of the proprietors,-of being otherwise appropriated 'or

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Van Ness and Wife vs. The City of Washingtoa and United Stales.]

sold'for.privateuse; that the .act of 18220, authorising such
sale, is a violation of the contract; that by such "sale-or-appropriation for private use, the -right of the United. States
thereto was determined; or that the original proprietors"
reacquired a right to c6nsider them in the same predicament
adif originally -laid out for liuilding lots; or that, at all
events. they were entitled, in equity, to the whole or a moiety
of the proceeds of the sale, if the act of 1822 were valid
for the purposes, which it professed to have in view.
Some-difficulty has arisen at the argument, from the peculiar structure of the bill ; it professing in some parts to seek
relief .under~the act of 1822, and in other parts insisting
Upon a title inconsistent with it; and demanding an injunction to prevent all sales of the rrd--by-the corporation. The
bpinion of this court certainly is, that under the act ofl22,
the plaintiffs can proceed.by a bill in equity in the nature of
apetition of right against these the United States only for
the money arising from the safes; and cannot claim a decree
-for the land itself, or for any injunction against sales of it.
The view, however, of the case which we are disposed to
take, renders it unnecessary to consider whether the bill is
so framed that with reference to the act of 1822 the court
could pass a definitive decree against the.United States upon
it, from the incongruities alluded to.
As it is manifestly the interest and desire of all the parties
to haVe an opinion upon the. merits, so as to put an end to
the controversy; we shall waive all- consideration of .minor
objections, and proceed at once to the consideration of the
substantial ground of the claim.
Congress, by. an act passed on the 16th of July 1790,
provided that a district of territory 'not exceeding ten
miles square, to be located as therein directed, on the river
Potomac, at some space between the mouths of the eastern
branch and Conogocheague be,. and the saine was thereby
accepted for the permanent seat of the government of the
United States. Three commissionerswere by the same act.
to be appointed, to survey, and by proper -metes and bounds
to define and limit the district; and they were authorised to
purchase or accept'such quantity of land on the eastern side

SUPREME COURT.
(Van Ness and Wife vs. The City of Washington and United States.]

of the said river, within the said district, as the president
should deem proper for the uve of. the United States; and
according to such plans as the president should approve, the
commissioners were to provide suitable buildings for the
accommodation of congress, and of the president, and for the
public offices of the government of the United States. A
subsequent act, passed on the 3d of March 1791, authorised
some alterations of the limits of fhe district. Suitable
cessions of the jurisdiction and soil of the territory, subject
to the private rights of pfoperty of the inhabitants, were
made by the states of Maryland and Virginia(a). And the
former act further provided for the removal of the seat of
government to the distridt on the first Monday of December 1800. The limits of the district were accordingly ascertained and defined; as made known by the proclamations of
the president of the 24th of January and the 30th of March
1791.
As yet no public designation had been made of the site
of the federal city, which was contemplated to be laid out
within the limits of the district, nor of the places on which
the public buildings should be erected; nor indeed had there
been any purchase or donation from any of the proprietors
of lands within the district, by or to the commissioners for.
that object. There cannot however be a 'question that
various negotiations had been entered into with the proprietors, and informal proposals made by them with a view to obtain so important and valuable a boon as the location of the
city within the boundaries of their estates. And it can admit
of as'tittlequestion, that preparatory steps had been taken
on the part of the government, to procure suitable plans for
the laying out of the metropolis.
In this state of things nineteen of the proprietors of the
land constituting the present site of the city of Washington,
among-whom was David Burns, on the 30th of March 1791,
entered into an agreement, which was presented to t:. con(a) See acts of Maryland of the 23d of December 1788, 19th of December
1791, 23d of December 1792, and of the 28th of December 1793. Act of Vir.
ginia of the 3d of DMcenber 1789.

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Van Ness and Wife vs. The City of Washington and United States.]

missioners as the basis of the terms on which -they were willing to dedicate their lahds for the location of the city. The
agreement was accepted by the commissioners, and recorded
in their books, If is in the following terms. " We, the
subscribers, in consideration of the great benefits we expect
to derive from having the federal city laid off upon our lahds,
do hereby agree and bind ourselves, bur heirs, executors, and
administrators, to convey in trust to the president of the
United States or commissioners, or such persons as he shall
appoint, by good and sufficient deeds, in fee simple, the whole
of our respective lands, which he may think proper to include
within the lines of the federal city, for the purposes and on
the conditions following.. The president shall have the sole'
power of directing the federal city to be laid off in what manner he pleases. He may retain any number of squares he
may think proper, for public improvements or other public
uses; and the lots only which shall be laid off, shall be. a
joint property between the trustees in behalf of the public
and each present proprietor. And the same shall be fairly
and equally divided between the public and tie individuals,
as soon as may be after the city shall be laid off. For the
streets, the proprietors shall receive no compensation ; but
for the squares or lands, in any form, which Shall be taken
for public buildings, or any kind of public improvements or
uses, the proprietors, whose lands are taken, shall receive at
the rate of twenty-five pounds per acre, tor be paid by the
public." There are some minor arrangements as to growing
timber, and grave yards, &c., which are not necessary to be
mentioned. It is material, however, to observe, that no, time
or mode of payment is prescribed in the agreement of the
twenty-five pounds per acre; and no fund out of which it was
to be paid is designated. The agreement was merely preparatory, and to be carried into effect by formal conveyances.
Now, it is upon the terms of this agreement that the
plaintiffs assert their title to relief in the present case. They
contend, that though the whole land was to be conveyed, et"
the portion of it which should be taken for streets and public reservations, according to the plan approved by the president, was clothed with a perpetual condition or trust that

280

SUPREME "COURT.'
['Van Ness and Wilb vs. The 'City bfVashington-and United States.]

they should for ever remain streets and public reservations,
and never should be liable to be appropriated to any private,
use; or changed from their original pultilic purpose. That
upon any such change or appropriation th title reverted to
the'original proprietors, or at all evehts, was to'be digposed
of and divided between them in the inanner'ptovided for, 'in
;espect t6 the land laid off into lots. They'also contend,"thiat,
the land so devoted to streets and'public. jeservations, was a
mere donation from- the prop'rietors, 'and 'iot a' pur6hhtr6-by
the United States; and therefore Qught:to'be'goveMedF 'by
the rules applicable to ptibhe.charities, and"the trust strictly
construed and enforced.
It is notvery material,'in ohr 6pinion, to decide whatwa',
the -technical character of the grants madeto" the. government; whether they are to.be demed mere dornitions 'or
purchases. The grants were made for thle foudatiodi- df a
federal'6ity; and the public faith was necessarily pledgbd
when- the grants were 'accepted, to found such city. ,'The
very agreemeht to found ,city was'-of itseif a most viltif-A
ble consideration for these" grants. I-chahged thd nhttob
and value of the property of the .ropff'tdrs to-an afmost
incaiculable extent. The land was nolonger to bd devoted
to mere agrictiltural purposes ; but acquired the extraordinary value of city lots. In proporion to th6 sucess of the
city would be the. enhaneerlent of-this value- and ii required
scarcely any aid from the imagination to foresee, that this
act of the government would soon corvert the natrow income of farms into solid opulence. The proprietors so considered it. In this very agreement they state the motive of
their proceedings, in a plain and intelligible manner. It is
not a mere gratuitous donation from motives of generosity,
or public spirit; but in consideration qf the great benefits
they, expect to derive from having the fiederal city "laid off
upon their lands. For the streets they were to receive no
compensation.' Why ?.Because those streets would be ofas
much benefit to themselves, as lot holders, as to the public.
They were to receive twenty-five pounds per acre for the
public reservations ; ,"
to be paid" (as the agreement states
it) "by the public." They understood themselves ther lo

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Van Ness and Wife vs. The City of Washington and United States.]

receive payment from the public for the reservations. It
makes no difference, that by the subsequent arrangements
they were to receive this payment out of the sales of the
lots which they had agreed to convey to the -public, in consideration of the government's founding the city on their
lands. It was still contemplated by theni as ,a compensalion ; as a valuable consideration, fully adequate to the value
of all their grants. It can, therefore, be treated in no other
manner than as a bargain between themselves and the government, for what each deemed an adequate consideration.
Neither considered it a case where all was benefit on one
side, and all sacrifice on the other. It was, in no just sense, a
case of charity; and was never so treated in the negotiatioas
of the parties. But, as has been already said, it is not in our
view material, whether it be considered as a donation or a
purchase; for in each case it was for the foundation of a city.
And in construing this agreement, this fact should never be
lost sight of. It is obvious, that the proprietors or their heirs
could not be presumed for any great length of time to have
any interest in the streets or public reservations beyond that.
of other inhabitants. If the city became populous, the lots
would be sold and built upon, and in the lapse of one or
two generations, at most, the title of the original proprietors might well be presumed to be extinguished by sales or
otherwise ; so that the interest of themselves or their heirs
in the streets and reservations would hot be distinguishable
from that of other citizens. They must also have contemplated that a municipal porporation must soon be created to
manage the concerns, and police, and public interests of the
city; and that such a corporation would and ought to possess
the ordinary powers for municipal purposes, which are usually
confided to such corporate bodies. Among these are certainly the authority to widen'or alter streets, and to manage, and in.many instances to dispose of public property,.or
vary its appropriation.
They might, and indeed musti also have placed a"just con-.
fidence in the government, that in founding the city, it Would
do no act which would obstruct its prosperity, or interfere
with its great fundamental objects Or interests. It could
L
VOL. I.-2

282

SUPREME COURT.
[Van Ness and.Wife vs. The City of Washington and Unfted State;.]

never be supposed that congress would.seek to destroy what
its own legislation had created and fostered into being.
On the other hand, it must have been as obvious, that ad
congress must for ever have an interest to protect and. aid
the (;ity, it would for this veiy purpose be most impolitic and
inconvenient to lay any obstructions to the most free exercise
of its power over it. The city was designed to last in perpe..
tuity: capitoli immobile saxum. No human foresight could
take in the great variety of events which might render.great
changes in the plan, form, and locations of the dity indispensable for the health, the comfort, and the prosperity of
the city. Cases might easily be imagined, as in other cities,'
where the desolations of fire have made alterations in the
streets and public squares of a city, most important and,
valuable to the whole comnmunity. A prohibition, which
should for ever close.up the legisltive power of congress on
such a subject, under all circumstances, ought not lightly to
be-presumed, nor' readily admitted. It should be proved by
the most direct and authentic documents, before we should
admit the belief that the wisdom of the first president of
the United States yielded up such a valuable franchise.
If the case had stood solely upon this preparatoryragreement, as an executory contract, there might have been
stronger grounds to impose limitations, upon the grant of
the streets ana public reservations. The language of the
instrument is, that the president may retain any number of
squares he may think proper for public improvements, or
other public uses. Yet even then, the appropriation of these
squares for public uses would not necessarily carry with it
an implied obligation that they should for ever remain dedicated to those uses, and to none other. If such had been
the intention of the parties, Wve should -naturally expect to
find there some direct expression of it, some acknowledgement of the obligation, or some condition carrying it to
such a political mortmain. If the stipulation was so important
and valuable as is now contended for, and constituted an
object of permanent solicitude, it would scarcely escape the
notice of the pibprietors in laying down the fundamental
basis of their cessions. If it did then escape them, we

JANUARY TERM 1830.

283

[Van Ness and Wife vs. The City of Washington and United States.]

should have reason to look for its incorporation into the
more solemn instruments which were contemplated thereafter to be-executed by the parties, and were in fact-execuied
by them in fulfilment of their original agreement. But no
such stipulation is there fo be found.
On the 29th June 179 t, the proprietors severally executed
deeds of indenture to consummate the agreement of the
preceding March. They are all in the same form, and contain the same declarations of trust. That executed by David Burns conveys to Thomas Beall and John M. Gantt (the
trustees designated by thd president) ail the lands of the
proprietor within the bounds of the city upon the following
trusts, viz. "that all the said lands, &.c. as may be thought
necessary or proper to be- laid out together with other lands
within the said limits for a federal city, with such streets,
squares, parcels and lots as the president of the- United
States, for the time being, shall approve.; and that the-said
(the trustees), &c. shall convey to the commissioners, fo the
time being appointed- by virtue of the act of congress, entitled, &c.. and their successors for' the use of the United
States for ever, all the said streets, and such of the said
squares, parcels and lots, as the president shall deefn properfor the use of the United States; and that as to the
residue of the said lots into which the lands, &c. shall be
divided, a fair anid equal division of them shall be made,
and if no other mode of divisiori-shall be agreed on by coasent of the said (grantor) and the commissioners for the
time being, then such residue of the said lots shall be divided,
every other lot alternate, to the said (grantor), &c. and
all the said lots which may in any manner be divided or
assigned to the said (grantor) shall thereupon, &c. be conveyed by the said (trustees) to the said (grantor), his heirs and
assigns; and that the said other lots shall 'and may be sold
at such time, &c. &c. as the president of the United states
for the time being shall direct ; and that the said (irustees),
&c. will, on the order and direction of the president, convey
all the lots so sold, and ordered to be conveyed, to the respective purchasers in fee simple, &c. &c.
Provision is then made that the twenty-five pounds per acre,

284

SUPREME COURT.
[Van Ness and Wife vs. The City of Washington and United States.]

to be paid by-the United States for the squares, should be
paid out of the proceeds of such saleg', and the residue shal"
be paid io the president, as a grant. of money to be applied
for the purposes, and according to the act of congress.
Provision is also made for other objects, not material to
be mentioned, and for. a conveyance of the trust property to
such other persons as the president might thereafter direct,
in fee; "subject to the trusts then remaining to be executed,
and to the end that the same may be perfected." In pursuance of this last provision, Beall and Gantt, the trustees,
made a conveyance of the premiseg by an indenture, dated
the 30th -of November 1796, to certain commissioners appointed under the act of congress, subject to the trusts then
remainibg to be executed; and, among other things, conveyed
to the commissioners all that part of the lands, &c. which
had been laid off into squares, parcels or lots for buildings,.
and now remaining so laid off in the city of Washington.
Now it is important to observe, that the object of the, indenture to Beall and Gantt in 1791, was to carry into full
and entire effect the preliminary agreement entered into by
the proprietors. There is no pretence to say that that indenture has not fully carried that agreement into effect.
There is no allegation in the bill of any mistake in the draft
of the indenture, or that the instrument was not precisely
what the parties intended it should be. The argument at
the bar has not attempted to set bp any sich mistake as a.
ground of equity. And indeed, after such a lapse of time,
and acquiescence in its legal -.ccuracy aad sufficiency by all
the parties; and after so many acts done under it, which have
been.silently confirmed by the parties; it Would be impossible to insist upon any such mistake with-a chance of success.
We must take the indenture, therefore, as we find it, as a
complete execution of the preliminary agreement, and as expressing the true intent and definitive objects of the parties;
The preliminary agreement then became, upon the execution
of the indenture, functus officio, and was merged in tlhe
more formal and solemn stipulations of the latter. It was
no longer executory, but -executed. The indenture itself
contained many exedutory trusts; and so far as any of them

JANUARY TERM 1830.

285

[Van Ness and Wife vs. The City of Wasbington and United States.]

yet remain unexecuted, the instrument itself may still be
denominated executory. But so far as the trusts have been
fulfilled, as by the, conveyance of lots to the grantors, or'to
purchasers, and especially by the conveyance of the streets
and squares, &c. to the commissioners in 1796, the indenture canno longer be deemeu executory. Its functions have
been final and complete.
We need not therefore inquire into the distinction taken
in a court of chancery, between execntory and executed
agreements; or into the extent to.Which its equitable jurisdiction will be interposed to reform instruments upon grounds
of mistake, or to grant other relief r because the present
bill presents no case falling under either predicament. Here
we have a solemn instrument embodying the final intentions
and agreements of the parties, without ariy allegation of
mistake; and we are to construe thiat instrument according
to the legal-import of its terms.
Now, upon such legal import, there do not seem grounds
for any reasonable doubt. The streets and public squares
are declared to be cnveyed "for the use of the United
States for ever." These are the very words which hy law
are Tequired to vest an absolute unconditional fee simple in
the United States. They are the appropriate terms of art,
if we may so say, to express an unlimited use in the government. If the government were to purchase a lot of land for
any general purpose, they are the very words which the
conveyance would adopt, in order to grant an unlimited fee
to the use of the government. Therd re no bther words
or references in the instrument which control in any manner
the natural meabing of them. There are no objects avowed
on the face of it,-which imply any limitation. How then can
the court defeat the legal meaning, and rbsort to a conjectural intent .
It has been said, that by looking at the preliminary agreement, the court will see that terms of a more limited nature
are there used. Be it so. But will that justify the court in re,sorting to it to explain or limit the legal import of words in
a solemn instrumin , which contains i0 reference to it 9 If
we could resort to it, the natural conclusion would be, in the

286.

SUPREME COURT.

EVan Ness and Wife vs. The City of Washington and United States.]

absence of all contrary.proof, that the last instrument embodied the real intent of the parties ; that the preliminary agreement either imperfectly-expressed their intent, or was designedly modified in the final act. The general rule of law
is, that all preliminary negotiations and agreements are to
be deemed merged in the final, settled instruments executed by the parties; unless a clear mistake be established.
In this very case, it may be true, for aught that appears, that,
the president might have insisted upon the introduction into,
the trust deed of the very words in controversy, to the use
of the United States for ever, in order to avoid the ambiguity of the words of the preliminary agreement, He may
have required an-unlimited conveyance to the United States;
so that they might be unfetteyed in any future arrangements
for the promotion of the health, the comfort, or the prosperity
of the city. But it is sufficient for us, that here there is a
solemn conveyance, which purports to grant an unlimited fee
in the streets and squares, to the use of the United States ;
and we know of no authority which would justify us in disregarding the terms, or limiting their import, where no mistake"is set up fnd none is established. It would, indeed, be
almost ircredible that any substantive mistake should have
existed, and never have been brought to the notice ot the
trustees, or to that of the, commissioners, upon their succeeding to the trust; or seriously insisted on by any party, down
to the time of filing the present bill. The.presentis not a
bill to reform *a contract or deed ; but to assert rights supposed tQ grow out of the trusts declared in 'the deed.
This yiew of the matter renders it unnecessary for the court
,to go into an examination of the facts insisted upon in the
answer to repel the allegations in the bill, or to disprove the
equity which it asserts. If the United States possess, as we
think they do, ari ufqualified fee in the streets and squares,
that defeats the title of the plaintiffs, and definitively disposes
of the merits of the 4u se.
It is the oplinion of the court, Mr Justice Baldwin dissent.pg, that .th decree of the circuit court, dismissing the bill,
Sl affirmed with costs.

