SUPREME COURT.

JOHN V: WILCOX AND THoxAS WILCOX v8.

KEMP

PLT

TIInC EXECUTORS O'

1mER.

Action of assumpsit to recover from the defendant, in the character of an attorney
at law, the amount of a loss sustained by reason of neglect or unskilful conduct.
A promissory note was, by the plaintiff, placed in the hands of P. for collection.
He instituted a suit in the state court thereon against the drawer on the 7th
of May 1820, but neglected -to do so against the indorser. The drawer proved
insolvent. On the 8th of February 1821 he sued the indorser, but committed a
fatal mistake by a misnomer of the plaintiffs; upon which, after passing through
the successive courts of the state, a judgment of non-suit was finally rendered
against the plaintiffs. Before that time, the action against the indorser was
barred by the statute of limitations; to wit, on the 9th of November 1822.
This suit was instituted on the 27th of January 1825. The statute of limitations of North Carolina interposes a bar to actions of assumpsit after three
years.
The questions in the case were, whether the statute of limitations commenced
running, when the error.was committed in the commencement of the action
against the indorser; or whether it commenced from the time the actual damage was' sustained by the plaintiffs by the judgment of'non-suit. Whether
the statute runs from the time the action accrued ; or from the time that the
damage was developed, or became definite. Held, that the statute began to
run from the time of committing the error by the misnomer in the actiop against
the, indorser.
The ground of action here is a contract to act diligently and skilfully; and both
the contract and the breach of it admit of a definite assignment of date. Whch
might this action have been brought, is the question; for from that time the
statute must run.
When the attorney was chargeable with negligence or unskilfulness his contract
was violated; and the action might have been sustained immediately. Perhaps
in that event, no more than nominal damages may be proved, and no more recovered; but on the other hand, it is perfectly clear that the proof of actual
damage may extend to facts that o~cur and grow out of the injury, even up to
the day of the verdict. If so, it is clear that the damage is not the- cause of
the action.

THIS case came before the court, on a division of opinion between the judges of ihe circuit court of the United
States, for the district of North Carolina.
It was an action of assumpsit, to which was pleaded the
statute of limitations.
It was alleged, and proof offered, that on the 28th of January 1820, the testator of the defendants, who was a collect-

.JANUARY TERM'1830.
[Wilcox et'al. vs. The. Executors of Plummer.]

ing attorney, accustomed to collect for John V. Wilcox and
Company, received from them, for collection, a note which
had been drawn by Edmund Banks, on the 2d of October
1819, payable to John Hawkins two months after date, and
by him indorsed, on the 9th of November 1819, to Hinton
and Brame, and by them, subsequently, to the plaintiffs.
On the 7th of February 182d, the testator, Keinp Plummer,
instituted a suit in the name of John V. Wilcox and Thomas
Wilcox, who composed the firm of John V. Wilcox and
Company, against Banks, and at August 1820, xecovered a
judgment against him. Banks proved insolvent, and on the
8th of'February 1821, the testator caused a writ to be issued
'in the names of John V. Wilcox, Arthur Johnson and Major
Drinkherd,*as co-partners in the firm and style of John V..
Wilcox and Company, against Hawkins, the indorser of the
note.
-This action, thus instituted and docketed as a suit by John
V. Wilcox and. Company against John H. Hawkins, was,
after various delays, brought to a trial in April 1824, when
the plaintiffs were nonsuited; and this nonshit was affirmed
on an appeal to.the supreme court, at -June term 1824.
Thereupon the present suit was instituted, viz. on the 27th
of January 1825, by John V. Wilcox and Thomas Wilcox,
copartners under the firm and style of*John V. Wilcox and
Company, against the testator of the defendants; and on his
death this suit was revived agaihst them by scire facias.
Two breaches were assigned, in distinct counts, by the
plaintiffs in their declaration:
The first, that the testator neglected to institute any suit
for them. against the indorser, until the 9th-of November
1S22, on which day the-remedy, against the indorser was
barred by statute.
The second, that he instituted and carried on for them
the suit, as herein beforb stated, against the indorser, negligently and unskilfully ; and before the same was terminated,
the remedy against him was barred as aforesaid, as fully
appears by the record.
The jury found a verdict for the plaintiffs, subject to the
opinion of the court on the statute of limifations. The time
allowed by this statute for bringing all actions on the case,

SUPREME COURT.
[Wilcox et a]. vs. The Executors of Plummer.]

is three years, after the cause of action accrues, and not
afterwards.
In the circuit court, it was contended by the.defendants;
that oh the first count of the declaration, the cause of action
arose from the time when the attorney ought to have sued
ihe indorser, which was within a reasonable time after the
note was received for collection; or, at all events, after the
failure to collect the money from thd maker: and that on
the second count, his cause of action arose at the time of
committing the, blunder, in the issuing of the writ in the
names of the wrong plaintiffs.
It was contended by the plaintiffs; that on the first count
their cause of action accrued whent the testator of the defendants suffered the remedy to be extinguished by a neglect
to sue on or before the 9th of November 1822: and on the
second counti when the suit unskilfully brought and prosecuted was terminated; or, at all events, on the 9th of November 1822.
It was agreed, that if the positions taken on the part of
the defendants be correct on both counts, then a judgment
is to be entered for the defendants.
If those taken by the plaintiffs be correct, then a judgmeit is to be entered for the plaintiffs on both counts : or if
either of the positions thus taken by the plaintiffs be correct,
then a judgment to be entered for the plaintiffs on the count
wherein the statute ought not to bar.
On which questions the judges divided in opinion, and
directed the difference to be certified to the supreme court.
Mr Wirt, for the plaintiff, maintained; that the positions
taken by'the plaintiffs in the circuit court were correct, and
that the same should be so certified to the circuit court, by
this court.
The action is against an attorney for negligence, by which
the plaintiffs'lost their debt. It is admitted, that an.attorney
is only liable for gross negligence, 2 Starkie's Evid. 133. In
.l the cases it is held That the action is not maintainable
until the debt is not recoverable. Russel vs. Palmer, 2
Wilson, 328. "3Day, 390.

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Wilcox et al. vs. The Executors of Plummer.]

It is the loss of the debt which gives the action ; and where
the object of the action is to recover the whole debt.from
the attorney, the cause of'action does not arise until the debt
is lost.
If the plaintiff has sustained a special damage by the negligence of the attorney, which is short of the loss of the
whole debt, he may have an action for such special damage;
and the cause of action will arise from'the date of the negligence which produces it. But, where the' negligence is
charged to be the cause of the loss of the whole debt, the
cause of action does not arise until the negligence has continued so long as to produce that effect.
Thus, in" this case, it was not the negligence of one or two
years which produced the loss of the debt; it was not until
the continuance of this negligence for three years had raised
the bar of the statute of limitations in favour of the originxl
debtor, that the loss of the debt became complete, and the
cause of action for the whole debt arose against the attorney.
Starkie says ; in an action against an attorney for negligence, it seems that the statute runs from the time when the
plaintiff was damnified, and not from the time of the negligence.
If this be law, it decides the case before the court; for the
plaintiff was not damnified to the extent of the demand made
by this action, until his right of'action was extinguished
against the original debtor ; that is until the bar of the statute
arose to protect that debtor. Ballantine on Limitations, 100,
101. Now, the universal-principle is, that the cause of action runs from the act or omission which produces the injury.
There are some modern cases which on their first aspect
may seem to bear adversely on this action ; but when exa-!
mined with' reference to this principle, and compared with
the cause of action stated in this declaration, they will be
round to proceed on a marked distinction between these
cases, and the case at bar.
In the case of Short vs. M'Carthy, 3 Barn. & Aid. 626, the
attorney had neglected to examine whether certain stock the
plaintiff was about to purchase, stood in the name of the
seller on the book4 of thp bank of England. He reported

SUPREME COURT.
[Wilcox et al. vs. The Executors of Plummer.]

that it aid, and the plaintiff purchased. The court held, that
the cause of action arose from the time of the neglect to
make .the examination, and his false report that he had done
so. This was a single act) by which the mischief was done.
The case of Howell vs..Young, 5 Barn. & Cres. 259. 11
Eng. Com. Law Rep. 219. This is a case similar to that of
Short vs. M'Carthy. The attorney neglected to examine if
real property was incumbered, and the statute was held to
run from his neglect, which was a single act. In both those
cases, the injury was consummated at once by an act of negligence. And herein the cases have a strong resemblance
to that cf Hilson ve. Boddington, 11 Com. Law Rep. 223,
cited by Holroyd, Justice, in Howell vs. Young.
In reply to the argument for the defendant.; Mr Wirt said,
the question is whether, during the whole of the connexion
of Mr Plummer with his clients, h,- had used due diligence '.
The distinction is between a single act of wrong, and a dontinuing act of wrong. The first cause of action was not
sufficient in itself: until its effect was fatal to the plaintiffs'
interests, no suit could have been maintained. The error in
the inception of the suit, was a continuing cause of action.
The principle being acknowledged, that an attorney is
not liable but for gross negligence, and not for every negligence; for that only which produces the injury; could ari
action have been brought on the failure of Mr Plurnmer to
institute the suit properly. This would not have been permitted.
In this case, every year was a new negligence until the
final loss of the plaintiffs' debt. It is suggested, that the
principle which in some cases makes the statute of limitationsrun from the time of the knowledge of the fraud or
injury, will apply.
Mr-Justice SToRy. This principle applies only in cases
of torts; and it has been expressly decided, not to apply to
cases of assumpsit.
Mr Webster for the defendant.
The question is, whether the statute of limitations was
not a sufficient bar to both counts in the declaration.

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Wilcox et al. vs. The Executors of Plummer.]

To consider them separately. The first count alleges,
that no suit was brought against the indorser, until he was
discharged by the act of limitations; which was on the 9th
of November 1822. Mr Plummer received this note for collection on the d8th of January 1820. He sued the drawer
of the note, and had judgment in August 1820; but obtained
no satisfaction, the drawer having failed. According to the
allegations on this count, he then delayed more than two
years before he took any steps against the indorser. This
was negligence clear and actionable. He should have used
all reasonable diligence, and as soon as he intermitted that
diligence, he was liable to an action foi neglect. The cause
of action against him is, his omitting to sue the indorser so
soon as he ought to have sued him; and the true que.tion is,
when did this cause of action arise 2
The plaintiff contends, that this cause of action arose
when the indorser was discharged by lapse of time; but thig
cannot be maintained. Suppose there had been nu statute
ot limitations by which an indorser would have been disch.arged, would not an action have lain against Mr Plummer'for not suing him q. He had a reasonable time, according to the course of the courts, and the practice of the
country, withini which to sue the indorser; and if he did not
sue within such reasonable time, he himself was subject ti a
suit for negligence.
He had promised to use all common diligence to collect
the note. Uncommon delay was a breach of that promise,
and a case of action. It is not at all material to this cause
of action, whether the full extent of damage was then ascertained' or not ascertained. It was enough that there was
a cause of action. From that moment the statute began to
run. The law regards the time when the cause of action
arises, not the time when the degree of injury, more or less,
is made manifest; and when the cause of action is a breach
of promise or neglect of duty, the right to sue arises immediately on that breach. of promise or neglect ,Of duty;
and this right to sue is not suspended, until subsequent
events shall show the amount of damage or loss. This may
be shown at the time of trial; or indeed if it be not actuVoL. IV .- X

178

SUPREME COURT.
EWilcox et a]. vs..The Executors. of Plummer.]

ally ascertained at the time of trial, the jury muststill judge
of the case as they can, and assess damages according to
their discretion.
A rule different from this would be attended with one of
two consequences, either no action could be brought in
such a case until the full amount of injury was ascertained;
or a fresh And substantive cause of action would arise on
every new addition to the probability of loss.
The cases are clear" and decisive to show that in such
cases as this, the'cause of action arises with the original neglect. Short vs. M'Carthy, 3 Barn. & Ald. 626, 630, 3 Eng.
Com. Law Rep. 403. Battley et al. vs. .Faulkner et al.
3 B. & A. 288, 3 Eng. Com. Law Rep. 289. Howell v8.
Young; 5 B. & C. 254, 11 Eng., Com. Law Rep. 219. 2
Saunders on Pleading and Evid. 645.
Howel vs. Young is much like this case. It was an. action
against an attorney for negligence, where no. loss actually
resulted, and where the negligence itself was not discovered
for some years. The court held the action accrued from the
time of the breach of duty. There the action was case; but
the court looked to the real nature of the transaction, and
applied the statute to it, disregarding the form of *action.
Holroyd, Justice, said," the loss does not constitute a fresh
ground of action, but a mere measure of damages. There is
no .new misconduct or negligence of the attorney, and consequently there is no new cause of action." This language
is strictly applicable to the case before the court. Omitting.
to sue, beyond a reasonable time, Mr Plummer was guilty
of negligence; a cause of action had then accrued against
him : his omitting-still farther to sue was no new neglect; it
was no new cause of action, but merely the continued existence of the former cause.
Counsel below illustrated this rule of law very well by referring to the cause of action for defamation. If words, not
in themselves actionable, be spoken, and special damage result, the party injured may sue within the time limited for
such suits after the happening of the injury ; because, in
such case, the specific injury is the cause of action. But if
words be spoken which are of themselves actionable, and

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Wilcox et al.
vs. The Executors of Plummer.]

special damage result also, in such case, notwithstanding or
not regarding the time of the happening of the special damage, the statute of limitation will run from the time of speaking the words.
It seems to have been contended for the plaintiff, in the
court below, on this first count, that Mr Plummer was bound
to sue the indorser; that this was a continuing obligation; and
that every day furnished a new fault and a new injury, till
the claim on which he should have sued was extinguished.
If this mode of argument be plausible, it is no. more. The
same reasoning would apply, and with equal force, to every
case of implied promise. If one borrows money, it is his duty
to pay; and h'e is in default every day, and commits 'a new
injury, every day, until he does pay. Yet the statute runs in
his favour from the day when he first ought to pay.
Mr Plummer was bound to sue at the first court because
that was reasonable time; not suing then, he was from 'that
moment liable to an action for negligence; and supposing
him not to have sued at all, as this first count charges, his
fault was then complete.
But the true view of the case, no doubt, is that attempted
to be raised under the second count. Mr Plummer did sue;
but he sued negligently, br unskilfully. He brought a suit
against the right party, on the plaintiffs' note ; but he misdescribed the plaintiffs. This was his error. Here was the
negligence ; and, therefore, here the cause of action. He
might have been sued for this negligence tfie next day after. he issued the writs; and the plaintiffs would have been
entitled to recover such damages as they could sh6w, at the
time of trial, and on the trial, they had sustained.- This
original error in the attorney was a breach of dut3;, from
which the failurie in the suit resulted as a consequence.
The failure in the suit was not his breach of duty ; the loss
of the.debt-was not his breach of duty. These were both
bhut the consequences of that breach. They were its results,
and they'fixed the measure of damages, but were not the
negligence.'which was alone the cause of action. It is
established law, that the limitation of the statute is to be
referred to that act or omission which -gives the cause of ac-

SUPREME COURT.
[Wilcox et al. vs. The Executors of Plummer.]

tion, without any regard to the consequences which ascertain
the amount of damages. 1 Salk. 11.
In the view w.hich the plaintiffs' counsel takes of this matter,
it would necessarily follow, that after the first term, orcourt,
in which Plummer could have sued, and ought to have sued,
the plaintiff lad a new cause of action against him, every
day, for three years ; each day's neglect being, as it is said, a
new default, or new cause of action.. If each day's neglect
bea nbw default, and new cause of action, it is quite clear
that the pendency of a suit for yesterday's default would be
no bar to a suit founded on a default of to-day; and if these
causes of action be, as iscontended they are, all new, indcpendent and distinct, then it follows that independent and
distinct damages may be given in each. Arguments can be
no more than specious which lead to results like these.
Mr Justice JOHNSoN delivered the opinih of the Court.
This suit wis instituted in the circuit court of the United
Statc-s, in North Carolina, to recover of the defendants the
amount of a loss sustained by reason of the neglect or unskilful conduct of their testator, while acting in the character
of an attorney at law.
A promissory note was placed in his hands for collection,
by the plaintiffs. He instituted a suit in the state court
thereon, against Banks, the drawer, on the 7th of February
1820, but neglected to do so against -Iawkins the indorser.
Bank' proved insolvent; and then, to wit, on the 8th of February 1S2f, he issued a writ against the indorser, out committed a fatal misnomer of the plaintiffs, upon which, after
passing through the successive courts of the state, a judgment of nonsuit was finally rendered against them. Before
that time, the action against the indorser was barred by limitation; to wit, on the 9th of November 1822, and this suit
was instituted on the 27th of January tS25.
The fbrm of the action is assumpsit ; and the plea now to
be considered is the act of limitation,'which in that state creates a bar to that action in three years.
The case is presciacd in a very unomalous'form bbut in order to subject it to any known class of rules, we must consi-

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Wilcox et al. vs. The Executors of Plummer.]

deiit as coming up upon opposite bills of exceptions, craving
instructions, on which the court divided. This court can only
certify an opinion on the points, sq raised ; that part of the
agreement stated in the record which relates to the rendering
of 3udgment on the one side or on the other, must have-its
operation in the court below.
There were two counts in the declaration - the one laying
the breach in not suing at all, until the note became barred;
thus treating as a mere nullity the suit in which the blunder
was committed; and the other laying the breach in the commission of the blunder; but both placing the damages upon
the barring of the note by the act of limitation. As this event
happened on the' 22d of November 1822, this suit is in time
if the statute commenced running only from the happening
of the damage. But if it commenced running either when
the suit was commenced against the drawer, or a reasonable
time after, or at the time of Banks's insolvency, or at the time
when the blunder was committed; in any one of those events,
the three years had run out. And thus the only question in
the case is, whether the statute runs from the time the action
accrued, or from the time that the damage is developed or
becomes definite.
And this we hardly feel at liberty to treat as an open
question.
It is not a case of consequential damages, in the technical acceptation of those terms, such as the case of Gillon
v8. Boddington, 1 B. &P. 541, in which the digging near the
plaintiff's foundation was the cause of the injury; for in that
instance no right or contract was violated, and by possibility
the act might have proved harmless, ai it would have been
had the wall never fallen. Nor is it analogous to the case
of a nuisance ; since the nuisance of to-day is a substantive
cause of action, and not the same with the nuisance of yesterday, any more than an assault and batteiy.
The groun ' of action here, is a contract to act diligently
and skilfully;'and both the contract and the breach of it
admit of a definite assignment of date. When might this
action have been instituted, is the question; for from that
time the statute must run.

SUPREME COURT.
[Wilcox et al. vs. The Executors of Plummer.]

When the attorney was chargeable with negligence or
unskilfulness, his contract was violated, and the action might
have been sustained immediately. Perhaps, in that event, no
more than nominal damages may be proved, and no more
recovered; but on the other hand, it is perfectly clear, that
the proof of actual damage may extend to facts that occur
and grow out of the injury, even up to the day of the verdict. If so, it is clear the damage is not the cause of action.
This is full y illustrated by the case from Salkeld and
Modern; in which a plaintiff having previously recovered for
an assault, afterwards sought indemnity for a very serious
effect of the assault, which could not have been anticipated,
and of consequence could not have been compensated in
making up the verdict.
The cases are numerous and conclusive on this doctrine.
As long ago as the 20th Eliz. 1 Croke, 53, this was one of
the points ruled in the Sheriffs of Norwich vs. Bradshaw.
And the case was a strong one; for it was altogether problematical, whether the plaintiffs ever should sustain any
.damages from the injury. The principle has often been
applied to the very, plea here set up, and in some very moderQ cases. That of Battley vs. Faulkner, 3 B. & A. 288,
was exactly this case; for there the damage depended upon
the issue of another suit, and could not be assessed by a jury
until the final result of that suit was definitely known. Yet
it was held, that the plaintiff should have instituted his
action, and he was barred for not doing so. In the case of
Short vs. M'Carthy, which was assumpsit against an attorney
for neglect of duty, the plea of the statute was sustained,
though the proof established that it was unknown to the
plaintiff until the time had run out. And the same point is
ruled in Granger vs. George, 5 B. & C. 149. In both cases
the court intimating, that if suppressed by fraud, it ought to
be replied to the plea, if the party could avail himself of it.
In Howell vs. Young, the same doctrine is affirmed, and the
statute held to run from the time of the injury, that being
the cause of action, and not from the time of damage or
discovery of the injury.
The opinion of this court will have to be certified in the

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Wilcox et al. vs. The Executors of Plummer.]

language of the defendants" supposed bill of exceptions, to

wit, "that on the first count in the declaration, the cause of
the action arose at the time when the attorney ought to have
sued the indorser, which was within a reasonable time after
the note, was received for collection, or at all events, after
the failure to collect the money from the maker. And that
on the second count his cause of action arose at the time of
committing the blunder in issuing the writ in the names of
wrong plaintiffs."

This cause came on To ue neard on the transcript of the
record from the circuit court of the United States for the
district of North Carolina, and on the points and questions
on which the judges of the said circuit court were opposed
in Dpinion, and which were certified to this court for its
opinion, in pursuance of ihe act of congress in such case
made and provided, and was argued by counsel; on consideration whereof, it is ordered and adjudged by this court, that
it be certified, to the said circuit court of the United States,
for the district of North Carolina, "that on the. first count in
the declaration, the cause of action arose at the time when
the attorney ought to have sued the indorser, which was
within a reasonable time after the note was received for collection, or at all events at the failure to collect the money
from the maker; and that on the second count his cause
of action arose at the time of committing the blunder in
issuing the writ in the names of wrong plaintiffs; all of which
is accordingly hereby certified to the said circuit court of
the United States for the district of North Carolina.

