JANUARY TERM 183o.

MAR

RONNENo0IFp,
PLAILhTXPF wlErtoit vs*. JAXM~
Lott's LEss.E, DEFENDANT ni ERRoR

N. TAY-

The official-tax books of the corporation of Washington, made up byJe register
from the original returns or lists of the assessors laid before the court of appeals, he being empowered by the ordinances of the corporation to correct the
valuatidns made by the assessors, are evidence; and it is not required that the,
-assessor's original lists shall be prbduced in evidence, to prove the.assessment
of the taxes on real estate in the city of Washington. [359]
In an ex parte proceeding, as a sale of land for taxes under a special authority,
great strictness is required. To divest an individual of his property against his
consent, every substantial requisite of the law must -be complied with. No'
presumption can be raised in behalf of a collector who sells real estate for taxes
to cure any radical defect in his proceedings; and the proof of regularity devolves upon the person who claims under the collector's sale. [359]
Proof of the regular appointment of the assessors is not necessary. They acted
under the authority of the corportion, and the highest eviderice of this &ct is
the sanction given to their returns. [360,
The' act of congress, under which the lot'in. the city of 'Wasbhington ii controvei-y was sold, required that public notice of the time and place of sale of lots,
the property ot rton-residents, should be given b.y Advertising" once-a wee"
In some newspaper in the city, for three months. Notice of the sale of the lot
In controversy was published for three months; but in the course of thabi period,
eleven days at dne time, at another ten days, and at another eight dags transpired, In succeidlng weeks; between the insertions of the ad'ertisemerit.in-the
newspapers. ,rA week" is a definite period oT time, commencing on Sunday
and endfingon Sturday. The notice was published, Monday, Jnuar 6th, and
was omitted until Saturday, January 18th, leavIng 6n interval of eleven days.
Stillothg publication on Saturday was withii the week precedingthe notice of'
the 6th ; and this was sufficient. • It would be a most rigid construction of the
art of congress, justified neither by its spirit nor its language, to sy'that-this
notice musit be published on any particular day' ofa week. If published once
a week for three months, the law is complied with, and its object efietuatued.
[361]
No doubt can exisf that a part of a lot may be sold for taxes, where !hey have
accrued on such part. [361]
The lot on which the taxes were assessed, belonged to two persons as tenants in.
common. *The assessment was made bv a valuation of each half of the lot.
To make a sale of the interest ofone tenant in common fer unpaid taxes talid,
it need not extend td the interest of both claimants : 'one having paid his tar,the interest of the other may well be sold (ot the balance. [361]
The advertisement purported to sell "half of lot No. 4, in .square No. 491;" and
the other half was atvertised in the same nranner, as belonging'to the other
tenant in cominon. This was nota sufficient advertisement; and a sale made
under the same was void. [62]
It is not sufficient that in an advertisement of land for sale for unpaid taxes, such

SUPREME COURT.
[Ronkendorff vs. Taylor's Lessee.]
a description is given as would enable the person desirous of purchasing to
ascertain the situation of the property by inquiry; nor, if the purchaser at the
sale had been informed of every fact necessary to enable him to fix a value
upon the property, would the sale be valid, unless the same information had
been communicated to the public in the notice. [362]
The tenth section of the act of congress provides that real property in Washington, on which two or more years" taxes shall be due and unpaid, may be sold,
&c. In this section a'distinction is made between a generaland a special tax.
Property may be sold to pay the former' as" soon as two years' taxes shall be
due; but to pay thelatter, prope.rty cannot be sold until the expirationof two
years after the'second-ear'stax becomes due. The taxes for which the property in controvprsy was sbla, became due, by the ordinance of the corporation,
on the 1st. day of January 1821 and 1822. The special tax for paving was
charged against the lot in 1820, and became due on the 1st of January 1821;
bt the ground on which itwas assessed was not liable to be sold for the tax
until the Ist of January 1823. The first notice of the sale was given on the
bth of December 1822, nearly a month before the lot was liable to be sold for
the special tax of 1820. Held, that the whole period should have elapsed
which was necessary to render the lot liable to be sold for the specialtax, before
the advertisement was pu'blishea. [364]

FROM the circuit court of the district 'of Columbia, for
the county of Washington.
'This was. an ejectment, brought by the defendant in error,
in the circuit court, for the recovery of an undivided moiety
of a 'lot of ground in the city of Washington, No. 4, in
square No. 491.

The lessor of the plaintiff in the. ejectment claimed to be
entitled. to the lot.of ground as tenant in common with- the
heirs at law-of Henry .Toland, deceased; and on the 10th
of March 1823, the half of the lot so held by the lessor of
the plaintiff, was set up and exposed to-public sale, a§ as-,
sessed to James N. Taylor, for taxes due to the corporation
of Washington, for the years 1820 and 1821, amounting,'in
the whole, including, the expenses of the sale. to the :sum
of forty-seven 'dollars and ninety-one cents ; and Henry'T.
Weightiran beeame the purchaser of the same. Mary.Ronkendorffi the plaintiff in error, holds, as lessee, tinder the
purchase at the tax sale.
Tn the circuit, court the jury returned a verdict for the.
plaintiff in the ejectment; upon which judgment for his 'nompired term in an undivided ;moiety of the lot as"tenant
in common was rendered' in his favour, under the instructions of the court; to. which several exceptions were taken.

JANUARY TERM 1830.

351

[Ronkendorff vs. Taylor's Lessee.]

The plaintiff in the circuit court made out his title -under
the commissioners of the city'of Washington, by regular
conveyances to himself and Henry Toland deceased ; and it
was agreed that the plaintiff's* lessee and Toland's heirs
were under the same seised in fee as tenants in common of
the premises, before the .sale 6f the half lot for taxes.
The defendant proved the assessment of the taxes on the
lot, by the production of the- regular evidence, and that the
taxes were assessed and the assessments were entered in the
tax books, according to the forms usually pursued and authorised under the charter and ordinances of the corporation'of
Washington.
In the tax book of 1820, -the assessment of lot No. 4, in
square No. 491, appears arranged in columns in the 'established and accustomed forms-; in which are placed the name
and residence of the owner of the property ; the number of
thE square; the number of the lot; its contents in square
feet; the rate of assessment; the valuation ; the valuation of
the improvements; and the amount of the tax.. The lot in
controversy was entered in the tax book of 1820 thus:
0

Taylor, James N.

491

Paving tax, .
Toland's heirs, Henry,

491

.. *

3, 4 4202 40 1680 1680 8 40
23 46 31 86
j 4 42021 40 1680 1680
8 40

In the tax book for 1821, the assessments of the lot were
entered as follows :
Taylor, James N.
. . I 491 11 4142021 40 116801 1680 18 401
Toland's heirs, Henry,
491 | 4142021 40 16801 1680 18 40 1

It was also proved, on the part of the defendant in the
.jectment, that the persons appointed to take thd value of
the property liable to assessments for taxes in the city of
Washington, usually perform the duty in October in each

352

.kPREME

COURT.

tRonkendorff vs. Taylors Lessee.]

year, and, make out annual -lists. of the -same and of- its, asskessed value ; which, after being laid before the board of ap,,
peal empowered to- cprrect-the valuations, are .returned to
thie register of the'corporation, Iwith the corrections,.if Any,
in whose custody and -office the. original books containirtg
such liI.s .and valtiations are preserved;.-and the, register,
by, the-authority of.the cqrpbrationu then proceeds to digest
the tax..books, year byye.qr, in. the form described, and .transfer%,jt.-udh tax books,- from tbe -original assessment'books
so returned by the'assessors, through.the board of appeal, the
lists.6f the.several species,.descriptions *and parcels of pro.perty-on which isuch taxes are imposed, and the. pssesied
valuttion ot..tne. same,. as corrected" by the board of appeal;
extendiig in t e- proper. cojumrr- prepared for the purpose,
the amount of the taxes-im posec -upon the 'ame respecetively:
which tax books, giveni iii dviden e by the defendant, were
so made up and arrangqe. by tae register, ini-the'yars"
1820 and 1821 respewtilely the genefal taxes,,thqein, reapeoti~-ely assessed becOning due and payable, according to
the lawso "the-_pprporati,;on i' the first, day of January of
each year .then next ensuing ; h4t is to say, the general tax
(exclusive 'of the special. tax-for paving) for the year 1S20,
on the 1st-of January 1821 and that for thebyear 1821, on
the Ist of Fanuabry 1822.
The court, -on-the motion of- the plaintiffi instructed the
jury' that the tax, books, s6 given-in- evidence, by the defendant,--were not competent vdence to prove the assessments
bf ft lot',for, the years 1820 and 821, unless the defendant'
first provetd the iiegular app.ointment and authority of-the asAessurs whose books and, returns -were used in making up
-and ar.rangiLg the tai books as aforesaid; 7and also produced
the original- books. to returned by' the assessors, through
the board of apped, .in each. year respectively;. to which
opiffid -and* i)dstr.uctin of"the court the defendant in the
circuit court. excepted'.
It was, further proved-on -the part of the defendant, thet
the collector of the taxes-imposed by the corpotation in third
and fourh.wards, vho wag authorised to advertise ard sell all
pzoperty in those wards liable to, be sold by taxes, on Men-. -

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Ronkendorff vs. Taylor's Lessee.]

day the 6th of December, in the year 1822, the taxes on the
lot in controversy being unpaid, caused to be inserted in the
National, Intelligencer, the following advertisement:
"Will be sold, at public sale, on Monday the 10th of March
next, at 10 o'clock,. A.M. at the City Hall, the following
described property, to satisfy the corporation of Washington
city for taxes due thereon up to the year 1821 inclusive,
with costs and ,charges; unless previously paid to the sub-'
scriber, to wit: (and amongst others are.the following.)
To whom assessed.

mN'o.
ofsuare.M.Tv'o, of lot. .&moun.

Jamnes N. Taylor,
Paving tax, in'st 10 per cent.
Henry Toland's heirs.
1

491
491

Ij
I

of 4

$16 80
23 46
of 41 16 80

This advertisement was repeated, and republished, by the
direction of the collector, on the several days following:
Friday, December 6th, 1822.-Satuirday DecemlnerI.4th,
1822,-Monday, December 16th, 1822.-Tuesday, De66mber 17th, 1822.-Wednesday,,December 25th, 1822.--Saturday, January 4th, 1823.-Monday, January 6th, 1823.--.,
Saturday, January 18th, 1823.-Tuesday, January 21st,
1823.-Saturday, February 1st, 1823.-Tuesday, February
4th, 1823.-Thursday, February 6th, 1823.-Saturday, February 8th, 1823.-Tuesday, February lth, 182.-Wednesday, February 12th, 1823.-Thrsday, February 13th,
1823.--Friday, February 14th, 1823.-Saturday, February
15th, 1823.---:Monday, February 17th, 1823..--Tuesday, February 18th, 1823.-Wednesday, February 19th, 1823.-Saturday, March 1st, 1823.-Monday, March 3d, 1823.-Tuesday, March 4th, 1823.-Wednesday, March 5th, 1823.Monday, March 10th, 1823.
The tenth seiation of the act of congress of the I5th May
1820; "to incorporate the inhabitants of the city of Washington, and to repbal all other acts heretofore passed," requires that real estate upon which two years' taxes are unpaid and in arrear, shall be advertised "once a week" for
three months.
In pursuance of his authority and duty, and according to
the tenor of the advertisement, the collector, on the loth of
VOL. IV.-2 U

SUPREME COURT.
ERonkendorff vs. Taylor's Lessee.]

March 1823, set up at public sale one half of the lot No.4,
in square No.,491; and the same having been purchased by
Henry T."Weightman, he paid the amount of the purchase
money on the I1th of March 1823, to the collector, who
ihereupon executed and'delivered to him a certificate under
his hand, and executed in t)ie presence of a witness; stating,
that "at a sale made by me, as -colle6tor of taxes for the
third and fourth wards of the city of Washington, on the 10th
of March 1823, after due notice given as required by the
acts of the corporation of said city, I set up-and exposed to.
iublic, sale, half of lot No. 4, in square No. 491, assessed to
James N. Taylor, for taxes due the said corporation on the
same, for the years 1820 and 1821, amounting in the whole,
including the expenses.of 'sale, to the. sum of forty-seven
dollars and nineity-one cents; wHen a certain" Henry' T.
Weightman, Being the highest bidder, became the purcha"serthereof, at and for -the sum of forty-seven dollars and
'ninety-one cents: the receipt of'fo'ty-seven dollars and.
ninety-one cents is hereby acknowledged, subject however
to-rbdemption as provided for by law.
The'collector made a return of the sale in the -following
form:
i-91
1 4 ames

-

. Taylor, IH.T.Weightman, 145 a3J 258'

47 91

Mr Weightman entered upon the half lot so sold to him,
and .was possessed thereof more than two years after the day
of sale ; and afterwards, on-the 5th of October 1826, received. in "due form a conveyance in fee simple of the' said hdlf
lot, which deed was duly recorded: the plaintiff's lessor,
3imes. N. Taylor, or any person for him or inhis behalf,-or
any person whatever, not having at any time paid or in any
manner tendered to Mr Weig'htman, or deposited in the
hands of the mayor or other officer of the corporation, the
money paid to the collector, or any part thereof.
• The court, onrthe motion of the plaintiff, Instructed the jury,
thatthe adverisement of the property was defective and illegal in the several instances.and particulars followirig, to wit :

JANUARY TERM. 1830.
[Ronkendorff vs. Taylor's Lessee.]

1. That, being published and republished as aforesaid,
on the several days aforesaid,' from the 6th of December
1822 to the 17th of March 1823, both inclusive, was not an
advertisement "once a week" for three months, within the
meaning of the.tenth section of the act of congress, passed
on the 15th of May ]0,. "to incorporate tile inhabitants
of the city of Washington, and to repeal all acts heretofore
passed for that purpose."
2. That the said corporation, or its collector of taxes acting under its authority, was not compet'nt to advertise and
sell any part of the said lot No. 4, in square No. 491, less
than the entire lot, for the taxes so assessed on the same and
due to the said corporation.
3. That the entire lot should have been assessed to the
two tenantsin common, Taylor and Toland; and accordingly
advertised and'sold, as assessed to them.
4. That the said advertisement did not sufficiently designate what half of the said lot was charged with the said
taxes, and was to be sold for the same; and did not purport
to be an.advertisement of an undivided moiety of the same
for sale..
5. That the said corporation.or its said collector had no
power or authority to advertise the said lot for sale, till the
last of the two years' taxes, for which the same was advertised for sale, had remained unpaid and in,arrears for two
years.
6. That the said advertisement does'not purport to advertise the said lot for two years' taxes unpaid and in arrears.
7. That the said property so attempted to be sold, wasnot
described with sufficient certainty, either in the advertisement or at the sale.
For which several defects, in the process of the. assessment, advertisement and sale of the said lot, the said sale is
illegal and void.
The defendant excepted to all these. instraLctions and
opinions of the court, and prosecuted this writ of error.
The case was argued 'by Mr Jones for the plaintiIg in
error; and by Mr Barrell and Mr Key for the defendant.

SUPREME COURT.
(iRonkendorff -vs. Taylor's Lessee.]

Mr Jones, for the plaintiffin error, contended; that the objections to the sale, whidh had been made for taxes, of the
moiety of'the lot, were untenable.
The taxes for which the sale had been made, had bee.
regularly assessed under the authority of the corporatiop of
Washington, and in conformity to law; all the forms or the
law and ordinances had been complied with in this assess'ment; the registering of the taxes; the advertisement; and
the sale. He cited the charter and ordinances of the corporation in support of that position.
. Mr Barrelland Mr Key, for the defendant, contended; that
no proof had been made on the trial in the circuit court of
the assessment of the taxes. The original books of the
assessors should have been produced; and not the statements or abstracts from them made by the register. There
may have been alterations made on appeals, and the original books of .the assessors were the only legal evidence.
Laws for the :sale of lands for taxes should be construed
strictly, and their provisions should be strictly pursued. They
are penal in their nature and effects. They go to wrest the
property of the owner out of his hands by act of law; and
every form which the law directs must be entirely and fully
answered. 8 Wheat. 682.
The description of the property was imperfect, it did not
designate the part of the lot to be sold with sufficient, if with
any precision. If the corporation could divide a lot, wiich
is denied, in order to comply with the law, there should have
been an assessment of. &half lot, and a description of it as
such. To show that such a description was insufficient,
cited, I Har. & Gill, 172.
The publication of the advertisement was not made in
conformity with the provisions of the charter: The tenth
section'directs that the advertisement shall be inserted once
a week, for three .mohths ; but the case shows'that this was
not done. A period of twelve days had elapsed between the
days on which the advertisement appeared; and no more
-thgn seven days should have passed. Once a week means
once in every seven days; from one day, a particular day, to

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Ronkendorff vs. Tayloes Lessee.]

another, a corresponding day in the succeeding week. In
every period of sevei days, the insertion .of the notice was
not sufficient. .If the advertisement commenced on one day
in a'wbek, it should -have been repeated on the following
corresponding 4ay in the succeeding week; and so. on,until
it had. been inserted for three ,months.
The stipulation to pay rent quarterly, and. the. construction gLven to such coenants;- illustrate and explain the
position-of the defeidantin error. Would-itibe a compliance with an agreement to pay two quarters, rent, quarterlyi
to make the payment at any time within six months, being
two quarters? The payments are- to be made'under such
covenant from quarter-day to quarter-day; and there is a
breach, if the corresponding and succeeding quarter-day, is
suffered -to pass without payment being made.
It was dlso contended; that thecorporation.had no'authority to advertise the lot for sale until the last oVfthe.two years?
taxes were due,'for which the sale was to be made; and that
the advertisement does.not purport to expose the property
to be sold for two years' taxes unpaid, and in arrears.
- Mr Jonesjin reply, argued, that the booksof the assessors
,were'jot the original records of the assessmentof-the taxes.
The returns are, made to the register, and. are entered by
,im; and his books exhibit regular and proper evidence of
the charges, and assessments on' property in the city.
The register is a public, sworn officer; and the duties he
performs ard official acts, which are shown by his books.
'The advertisementwas inserted in every succeeding period
of 8even days, and this was a 'compliance with the law. It
was a publication in every succeeding week, or space of seven
-days; and this was according to the letter of the charter.
When- a term is fixed for the performance of an act, the
vhole time is allowed to do it; even to the last minute.
So, to require advertising once a week, gives all the next
week for the next advertising. On what succeeding day in
the hebdomadal division of a week the advertisement shall
appear, is not required; the name of the dAy of the week
on which it must be p~ublished is of no moment; as the names

SUPREME COURT.
[Ronkendorff vs. Taylor's Lessee.]

of the days of the week are arbitrary. It is the period of
seven days, which the law regards as the space of a week ;
and in this case,' as there was no period of fourteen days in
which the notice of thq sale was omitted, no longer period
than twelve days having passed during the three months'in
Which the advertisement did not appear, all was regular.
As to the objection that the property sold had not been sufficiently described; as the powers of the corporation are to
tax all interests in lands, the right to assess the tax on an
undivided moiety of a tenant in common cannot be denied.
Such was this case; and the advertisement described sufficiently an undivided half of the lot, of which Taylor was the
owner with Toland's heirs.
Mr Justice M'LEANq' delivered the opinion of the Court.
This writ of error is prosecuted to reverse a judgment of
the circuit court for the district of Columbia.
The defendant in error brought an action of ejeetment in
the circuit -court, to recover possession of lot No. 4, in,
square No. 491, in the city of Washington, half of wich
had been sold for taxes; and under the special instructions
of the court, recovered a verdict and 'judgment. Several
exceptions were taken to the competency of the evidence
admitted on the trial, all of which appear in the bill of exceptions.
The first -objection was taken to the competency of the
proof of the assessment-of the lot for taxation: the legality.
of the tax is not disputed.
To show the taxes assessed on the lot for the years 1820
and 1821, the defendant below produced in evidence the'
official tax books of the corporation, regularly made up by
its officers; from which it appeared, that the plaintiff stood
charged for 1820, with thirty-one dollars. eighty-six cents
for the tax on the half of lot No. 4, which contained four
thousand two hundred 'and two square feet, valued at one
thousand six hundred and eighty dollars. For the year I821,
he stood charged with eight dollars forty cents tax on the
samhe lot. It-appeared in proof, that the assessors appointed
by the authority.*of the corporation,- make. a valuation of

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Ronkendorff vs. Taylor's Lessee.]

.property within the city, about the month of October, annually, and a return of their proceedings ; which are laid- before
the board of appeal empowered to correct the valuations of
the assessors, according to the laws and ordinances of the
corporation. The assessment lists are then returned to.the
register of the corporation. The register then proceeds to
make out the tax books, from ihe original assessment lists
returned by the assessors, and corrected by the board of
appeal. But it was contended, that the original lists of the
assessors must be produced, and also proof of their appointment.
The court recognize the correctness of the principle contended for by the counsel for the. plaintiff in error; that in
an ex parte procee'ding of this kind, under a special authority, great strictness is required. To divest an individual of
his property, against his consent, every substantial requisite
of the law must be shown to have been complied with. No
presumption can be raised in behalf of a collector who sells
real estate for taxes, to cover any radical defect in his proceeding; and the proof of regularity in the procedure devolves upon the person who claims under the collector's sale.
In this case, was it necessary to exhibit proof of the regular appointment, of the assessors?. They acted under the
authority of the corporation, and the "highest evidence of
this fact is the sanction which it has given to their return.
This return has been examined and .corrected by the board
of appeal, and %iasthen handed over to the register. What
better proof can be required of the assessor's authority to act.
The municilial powers of the corporation are conferred by
a.public law, and all courts are bound to notice tlhem6 (s
it necessary in any case to go into the proof of the election of
the mayor, or any of the other officers of this corporation!
This has not been contended; nor can it be necessary to
,prove the appointment of an officer of the corporation, who
has acted under its authority, and whose proceedings, as in
the presentcase, have received its express sanction.
Did the court below err in requiring the original assessment lists to be produced.
These lists, under.the law, were not ,4onclusive on the

SUPREME COURT,
[Ronkendorffm#. Taylor's Lessee.]

corporation, or on the person whose property was assessed.
They were laid before the court of appeal for their correction and sanction, and they were then passed to the register.
* If the.assessment was not conclusive, or indeed binding
on either- party until. sanctioned by the. board of appeal;
t jen, without this sanction, tie assessment lists could not be
received as evidence. These lists being handed over to the
register, the law requires hiim to furnish a- tax book to .the
cojlector, from the original assessment lists on file in his office, according to.a prescribed form. -This was done'in the
case under consideration ; and is-not this book evidence .i
It was made out and arranged by an officer, in pursuance
of a duty expressly enjoined'by law. This not only makes
the tax book evidence, but the best evidence which can be
given of the facts it coitains. In this book are stated, thf
name of the owner of the property, and his residence,',if
known; the number of the square, the number of the lot,
the square feet it contains; the rate of assessment, the valuation, and the amount of the tax. Only a part of these appear upon the assessment list.
This court think, that-the circuit court erred in their instructions to the jury on both of the, points stated. 1. In
deciding that the proof was not competent to show the
authority of the assessors :.and, -2. That the official tax book,
certified by. the register, did not prove an assessment of the
property.
The next point presented by:the- bill of exceptions is as
to the legality of the notice of sale given by the collector.
The court instructed the jury, that the -advertisement was
defective in. several particulars.
By the tenth section of the apt of congress, which directs.
this proceeding-S.the collector is required to give public notice of the time and place ofsale, by.advertising once a
week, in some newspaper printed in the city of Washington,
for three months when the property is assessed to a person whoresides within-the United States, but without the
-district of Columbia.
controversy was given by
Notice of the sale.of the'lot in.
the collector; firsti in a -newspaper. published the 6th of.De-

JANUARY TERM 1830.

361

[Ronkendorff vs. Taylor's Lessee.]

cember 1822, and last, in the same paper of the 10th of
March 1623. These- periods, embrace the time the advertisement is required to be published: but it iscontended, that
the notice was not published once in each week, .within the
meaning of the act of'congress."
In examining the dates of the publications, it appears
that eleven days at one time transpired between them, and
at another timeten days, at another eight.
These-omissions, if is contended, are fatal: that the publication being once made, it was essential to the validity of
the notice that, it should be published every seventh. day
thereafter.
The words of the law are, " once a week." Does this
limit the publicatidn to a particular day of the week! If
the notice be published on Monday, is it fatal to omit the
publication until the Tuesday week succeeding ? The object of the notice is as well answered by such a publication,.
as if' it had been made on the following Monday.
A week is. a definite period of time, commencing on'Sunday and ending on Saturday. By this construction the notice in this case must be held sufficient. It was published,
Monday, January the 6th, and omitted until Saturday, January the 18th, leaving an interval of eleven days; still the
,publication on Saturday Was .within the week succeeding
the notice of the sixth.
It would be a most rigid construction of the act of congress, justified neither by its spirit nor its language, to say
that this notice must be published on aily particular day of
a week. If published once a week, for three months, the
law is complied with, and its object effectuated.
'-The circuit court erred on this point in their instructions
to the-jury.
The court below also instructed the jury, "that the corporation, or its collector of taxes, acting under its authority,
was not competent to advertise and sell any part of'said lot
No. 4, for the -taxes assessed on the same."
By the law, not less than a lot, when the property upon
which the tax has accrued is not less than that quantity,
may be sold for the taxes due thereon,
VOL." 1V.--2 V

' 362

SUPREME- COURT.
[Ronkendorfftvs. Taylor's Lessee,]

No doubt.can ex ist, that a part of a lot may be sold for
taxes,- where they have accrued on such part ;- it appears,
therefore, that the circuit court have also erred on this point.
It is again objected, "that the entire lot should have been
assessed to the two tenants in c6mmon, Taylor and Toland;
and accordingly advertised and sold, as assessed to them.
The same valuation was placed on each half of this lot;
so that so far as the assessment goes, it did not substantially
differ from the instruction given. But the sale,.to be valid,
need not extend to the interest of both claimants. One
having paid his share of the tax, the interest of the other
may well be sold for the balance. The court therefore erred
in their instructions on this point also.
In their fourth instruction the court say to the jury," that
the advertisement did not sufficiently designate what half of
the said lot was charged with the said taxes, and was to be
sold for the same, anJ did not purport to be an advertisemnt'of an undivided moiety."
-The law requires "the number of the lots, (if the square
has been divided into lots,) the number-of the square or
squares, or other sufficient or definite description of the property selected for sale, to be stated in the advertisement."
Conigress had two objects in view in requiring this notice
to be given. 1. To apprise the owner of the property; and,
2. To give notice to persons desirous of purchasing. These
objects are important. It is necessary for the interest of
the owner that he should be informed of a proceeding which,
unless arrested by the payment of the tax, would divest him
of his property. And it was of equal, if not greater importance, that the property should be so definitely described,
that. no purchaser could be at a loss to estimate its value.
It is not sufficient that such a description should be given
in the advertisement as would enable the person desirous
of .purchasing to ascertain the ' tuation 6f the property by
inquiry. Nor, if the purchaser at the sale had been informed of every fact ndecessary to enable him to fix a value upon
the property; yet the sale would be void, unless the same
information had been communicated to the public in the
notice. Its defects, if any exist in -the description of the

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Ronkendorffvs. Taylor's Jessee.]

property to be sold, cannot be cured by any communication made to bidders on the day of saleby the auctioneer.
What was the description given in the advertisement of
the property in controversy . It was described to be half
of lot No. 4, in square No. 491 ; and the other half was adv6rtised at the same time under the same description, as belonging to Toland's heirs.
What would be understood by such a description. Suppose half a square had been advertised, it not having been
divided into lots: would it convey that certainty to the public, as to the precise property about to be sold, that would
enable any one to form an opinion of its value '. No one
could suppose that an undivided half of the square was td
be sold under the notice; and which half was offered, could
not be determined from the advertisement. Would this be
a notice under the requisites of the law q
The value of a lot or half lot depends upon its situation.
If one of the half lots front two streets in a populous part of
the city, it is of much higher value than the other half. Ancf
this difference in value may still be greater, if the lot be
situated near the middle of a square, fronting the street, and
it be divided so as to cut off one half of it from the street.
It will thus be seen, that it is not a matter of small importance to the person who wishes to purchase, to know which
half of a lot is offered for sale; and as any uncertainty in
this matter must materially affect the value of the property
at the sale, it is of great importance to the owner that the
description should be definite. That an undivided moiety
of a lot may be sold for taxes, has already been stated.
But would any one understand that one half of lot No. 4means an undivided moiety!.
In all cities half lots are as common as whole ones; and
whien a half lot is spoken of, we understand it to be a piece
of ground half the size of an entire lot, and of as definite
boundaries.
The illustrations given show how great a difference in
value may exist between halves of the same lot. And would
not the preferable half be of much higher value than an
undivided moiety 6f the entire lot q

SUPREME COURT.
[Ronkendorff vs. Taylor's Lessee.]

-

In every point of view in which this notice can be considered, under the act of congress, it was radically defective.
The property should have beeri described, as an undivided
half of lot No. 4. Under such a ddscription, no one could
be at a loss, as to its situation and value. The instructions
of the circuit court on this point are-not erroneous.
In -their fifth instruction the court say, "that the corporation, or its collector, had-no power or authori/tyto adv'ertise
the said lot for sale till the last of the two years' taxes for
which the same was"advertised for sale., had remained unpaid and in arrear for two years."
-The tenth section of the act of congress, which governs
this subject, provides, "that real property, whether impr6ved
or unimproved, in -the city of Washington, on which two or
more ytars' taxes shall haye remained due and unpaid;,. qron
Which any special tax, imposed .by virtue" of the authority of
the provisions of this act, shall have remained unpaid for
two o"more years after the same shall have -become due,
may be sold, &62'
•Iithis section, a distinction is made between a general
and a special tax. Property may be sold to.pay the former,
so soon as two years' taxes shall be' due; but to pay the latter, propetty cannot be sold until the. expiration of twf
years after the second year's tax-becomes due.
The taxes -for which the Aot-in controversy was sold, were
assessed-in 1820 and 1821 ; and by the ordinance of the corporation they became due on the 1st of January succeeding
the assessment."

A special tax for 'paving was charged against Taylor in
1820, and composed a part of the sum for which the property was sold.
This special tax became due on the 1st of January 1821
but the ground on which it wis aisessed, was :not liable to
be sold for the tax until the 1st of January 1823. On the
1st of January 1822 the same property was liable to.be sold
under 4he assessments of the years-1820 and 1821, for a
general tax.
The first notice of the salewas given on'the 6th of Decembet. 1822, nearly a month before the lot.was liable to be

JANUARI TERM 1830.
[Ronkendorffvs. Taylor's Lessee.]

sold for the special tax of. 1820. Does this render the notide invalid .i
This court think, that the whole period should have elapsed which was necessary to render the lot liable to be sold
for special tax, before the advertisement was published.That Ihe owner of the lot, by'payiig the tax at any time
before the 1st of January 1823, would save it from Ihe liability of being sold and that until this liability had attaiched,
he could not be chargeable with-the expense of notice, nor
could it legally be given.
The circuit court, therefore, did not err in their instruction to the jury on this point.
The court also instructed the jury, that the advertisement
was defective, as it "does not purport to advertise the said
lot for two years' taxes unpaid and in arrear." It states that
the lot was offered for sale, "for taxes due thereon up to
the year 18.21." This was sufficient; for if the taxes were
due, and the property was liable to be sold for them, it can
be of no importance to, the purchaser to have a more technical description of the tax thafi the notice contained.
The seventh instruction, "that the said property, attempted to be sold, was not described with sufficient certainty,
either in the advertisement or at the sale," ig substantially
embraced by the fourth instruction which has been considered.
For the errors specified; the judgment of the circuit court
must be reversed, and the cause removed to that court for
further proceedings, in conformity to this opinion;
-

This cause came on to be heard on the-transcript of the
record from the circuit court of the United States, for the
district of Columbia, holden in and for the county' of Washington, and was argued by counsel; on consideration whereof,
it is ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment
of the said circqit court in this cause be, and the same is
hereby reversed, and that the cause be and the same is hereby. remanded to the said circuit court, for further procced
ings to be had therein, according to law and justice.

