JANUARY TERM 1830.

JOHN CONARD, MAsar. oF THE EAsTERN DISTRiCT OF PENNsYLv Ni, PAnxrFr rN ERROR vg. FRANcrs H. NICoLL, DEFENDANT IN ERROR.
The principles decided in the case of Conard vs. The Atlantic Insurance
Corn.
pany, relative to the priority nf the United States, examined and confirmed(a).

ERROR to the circuit court of the eastern district of
Pennsylvania.
The defendant in error brought an action of trespass, in
the court below, against the plaintiff in error, for a quantity
of merchandize, consisting of teas, cassia, nankeens, &c. all
of the value of one hundred and ninety-three thousand seven
hundred and twenty-five dollars. Also for four ships, viz. the
Addison, the Woodrop Sims, tle Thomas Scattergood, and
the Benjamin Rush, all of the value of one hundred thousand dollars.
The defendant below pleaded, that he, as marshal of the
district of Pennsylania, had a writ of fieri facias against one
Edward Thomson, in favour of the United States, and that
he seized the merchandize and ships as Thomson's property.
The plaintiff replied, property in himself, &c. in the common
form.
It was agreed between the parties to the suit, that the title
of Francis H. Nicoll to the property should be tried, the
property having been placed in the hands of trustees, to
abide the event of the suit.
The case was tried in the circuit court, before Mr Justice
Washington, and a verdict was given for the plaintiff for
thirty-nine thousand two hundred and forty-nine dollars and
sixty-six cents damages. The defendant in the circuit court
excepted Io the charge of the court, and prosecuted this writ
of error. The whole charge delivered to the jury in the
circuit court, was brought up by the writ of error.
By direction of the court, the whole of the charge delivered by Mr Justice Washington in the circuit court is inserted, as follows:
(a) I Peters, 386

SUPREME COURT.
[Conard vs. Nicoll.].

.This is an.action of trespass brought against the marshal of
this district, for levying an execution at the suit of the United
States against Edward Thomson, on the ships Addison,
Woodrop Sims, Benjamin Rush, and Thomas Scattergood,
and certain parts of their cargoes, alleged to have been the
property of the plaintiff. The defendant justifies his proceedings under the allegation thatthe property levied upon
belonged to Edward Thomson, against whom the execution
was sued out.
The evidence given by the plaintiff to prove his title to
the property in dispute,-is substantially as follows: a i'espondentia bond in the usual form, dated in April 1825, on a certain part of the outward cargo of the ship Addison, with a
memorandum annexed, reciting an agreement, that the outward bill of lading should ibe indorsed to the plaintiff, as a
collateral security for the sum mentioned in the bond, and
that the property to be shipped homeward, being the proceeds of the outward cargo, should be for account and risk
of Edward Thomson, but to be consigned to order, and
the bill of lading for the same to be forwarded to the plain-.
"tiff.
2 The bill of lading of the outward cargo, referred to on
the bond -and memorandum, for account and risk of Edward Thomson, indorsed by him in blank, and delivered to
the plaintiff.
3. A homeward bill of lading and invoice for account and
risk of Edward Thomson, consigned to order, and indorsed
by the shipper at Canton, dated in November 1825; which,
upon the arrival of the ship in the spring of 1826, were delivered by -Peter Mackie, the head clerk of Edward.Thomson, before his failure, and afterwards one of his general
assignees, to the plaintiff.
in all material
The title to the cargoes'of the other ships isstated.
just
that
with
respects the same
The title to the ships themselves is claimed under bills of
sale by Edward Thomson to the plaintiff, dated on the 9th
of July and 27th of October 1825.
On the 19th of November 1825, Edward Thomson made
a general assignment of all his estate to Peter Mackie and
Richard Renshaw, for the benefit of his creditors.

JANUVRY TERM 1830.
[Conard -s. Nicoll.]

The United States having obtained judgments against
Edward Thomson to an immense amount, 'sued out and
levied executions on these ships and their cargoes, at the
moment of their respective arrivals in the spring and autumn
of 1826.
InOctober 1826, the whole of this property was restored by the United States to the plaintiff, under an
agreement between them that it should be without prejudice to any existing right, and that the plaintiff should sell
the same to the best advantage, and should immediately
invest the net- proceeds, in the name of the secretary of
the treasury, in productive stock, and.place the certificates
thereof in the bank of the United States, &c..; and that the
plaintiff should institute a suit against the marshal, to ascertain the right to the said proceeds; in which action, if the
plaintiff in his own right, or as representing Smith and Nicoll,
should establish his right thereto, then that the said proceeds
should be paid to him; otherwise, the same to be paid to the
United States. This agreement is recited in the condition of
a bond executed by the plaintiff, with sureties to the United
States.
An agreement had been previously entered into by-the
counsel in the cause, dated the 27th of September 1826,
stipulating, that the merits only should fie litigated, without
regard to form.
In the case of the Atlantic 'Insurance Company vs. Conard, a.great variety of objections of a legal character to the
title 'of the plaintiff in that cause, which are equally applicable to that of this'plaintiff, were stated and overruled by
the supreme court, and they have of course been abandoned by the defendant's counsel in this cause. They rely
nevertheless upon other objections, partly legal, but mainly
resting upon the particular facts belonging to this case,
and which are now to be examined. The duty of the court
will be to give to the jury an opinion upon every question of
a legal nature which the case presents; and after laying down
certain general principles of law applicable to the evidence
which has been given, to leave the facts to be decided by the
jury.
The first objection to the plaintiff's title is, that the trans-

SUPREME COURT.
[Conard vs. Nicoll.]

fers executed by Edward Thomson to the plaintiff, for the
property in dispute, were given without consideration. It'is
denied that any thing, much less the amount stated in those
transfers, was due by Edward Thomson to the plaintiff, or
to Smith and Nicoll, at the time they were executed. Upon
this point, it is proper that the -jury should be satisfied;"
and it is for them to decide upon the evidence, whether
these securities were given for value received or not; if they
were given without consideration, the plaintiff will have
failed in establishing his right to the propertyj which they
-professed to transfer.
The plaintiff relies upon the following evidence to prove
the consideration for which those securities were given. 1.
The respondenti bonds and memorandum annexed, both
under seal, and both of them acknowledging a loan to Edward Thomson of the sum expressed in them.
2. The negotiable notes of Edward Thomson to the plaintiff, or to Smith and Nicoll; produced in evidence.by the
plaintiff.
3. A settled account, signed by Mackie, on the part of
Edward Thomson, and by Mr Worthington on -that of the
Nicolls.
4. -Sundry entries in Edward Thomson's memorandum
book.
The correspondence between the Nicolls and Edward
Thomson is relied upon by the plaintiff as additional proof
of the fact; and by the defendant's counsel, for the purpose
of disproving it.
Upon this evidence the court has only to observe, 1. That
even bills of exchange and negotiable notes of hand are prima facie evidence of value received, as well between the
original parties, as third persons, so as to throw upon the
party who denies the fact the burthen of disproving it(a).
The presumption is certainly not less strong where the acknowledgement of value received is under the seal of the
party. If this be the settled law, as the authorities cited
prove it to be, it is not competent to the defendant to shift
the burthen of proof by giving notice to the plaintiff that
(a) Mandeville vs. Welch, 5 Wheat. 282
322.

Chitty on Bills, note 17.

Riddle vs. Mandeville, 5 Cranch,

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Conard vs. Nicoll.]

he would be requirea on the trial to prove that the securities
under consideration were given for value. received.
2. That a settled account between a creditor and his
debtor being proved, is prima facie evidence of the balance
stated on it having been due; which may nevertheless be
impeached and disproved by pointing out errors in- the account, and maintaining their existence.
It is insisted, however, by the defendant's counsel, that the
consideration for these securities, admitting it to be proved,
flowed from Smith and Nicoll, and that the plaintiff has
given no evidence of an assignment by them to him. But;,
without noticing the agreement between the plaintiff and the
United States as to the interest of Smith and Nicoll, represented by the plaintiff; it may be observed, that if the
Nicolls and Edward Thomson were contented, and so
agreed, that these securities should be given to the-plaintiff for debts originally due by Edward Thomson to Smith
and Nicoll, it cannot be essential to the plaintiff's recovery
in this case, that he should produce a written assignment by
Smith and Nicoll to him. If the plaintiff, as between himself
and Smith and Nicoll, be not entitled beneficially to the property in dispnte, or to its proceeds, that is a matter to be
settled between them, and can form no question in this
cause. That Edward Thomson assented to this arrangement is proved, prima facie, at least, by the securities themselves; and the- objection relied upon cannot with propriety
be urged by the United States, who claim the property in
dispute as belonging to him.
The second objection to the plaintiff's title, and the one
mainly relied upon, is, that the transaqtions between the
plaintiff, and Smith and Nicoll, and Edward Thomson,
upon which the transfers of the property in dispute were
founded, were, as they respected the United States, fraudu%.lntand void. Whether they were so or not, will be submitted to the decision of the jury upon the evidence which
hag been given, after the court has stated some general
principles oflaw to assist them in their investigation.
The first inquiry is, What is fraud . From a view of all
that has been said by learned judges and jurists upon this

SUPREME COURT.
[Conard vs. Nicoll.]

subject, it may be safely laid down, that, to constitute actual
fraud between two or more persons to the prejudice of a
third, contrivance and design, to injure such third person,
bydepriving- him of some right or otherwise impairing it,
must be shown. In the case of Chesterfield vs. Jansen(a),
Lord Hardwicke terms it dolus malus. Lord Coke defines
covin, to be a secret assent determined in the hearts of two
or more, to the defrauding and prejudice of another(b). The
acts of 13th Eliz. ch. 5, and 27th Eliz. ch. 4, which did little more thanaffirm the doctrines of the common law, afford
substantially the same definition. The case stated by lord
Mansfield, in Worsley, &c. vs. Demattos, &c.(c), of a person, who, knowing that a. creditor has obtained judgment
against his debtor, buys the debtor's goods, though for a full
price, with a view to defeat the execution of the creditor, is
a'strong illustration of. the sapie principle ; the purchase
was declared to be fraudulent, not because a man may not
lawfully purchase the property of a defendant against whom
there is a judgment, but-because of the intention with which
it was made.
The question then for you to decide will be, whether the
transactions between these parties, *hich are alleged to have
been frauduleht, were contrived or intended to delay or defeat the United States of the debts due to them by Edward
Thomson, or otherwise to prejudice their .rights. How far
the*Nicolls might lawfully take care of their own interests,
although by doing so the United States might thereby be
prejudiced, will be seen when we come to consider more
particularly the alleged instances of fraud which have been
relied upon. But previous to this examination it may be
proper to lay downthe following principles, whicfi seem to
be incontrovertible.
1. That actual, fraud is not to be presumed, but ought to
be proved by the party who alleges it.
2. If the motive and'design of an act may be traced to
an honest and legitimate source, equally as to a corrupt one,
(a) 2 Yes. 155.
(b) Co. Lit. t57, c.
(c) 1 Bar. 474. See also Cadogan vs. Kennet, Cowp. 434.

JANUARY TERM 183n.

297

[Conard vs Nicoll.]

the former ought to be preferred. This is but a corollary
to the preceding principle.
3.'If the person against whom fraud is alleged, should be
proved to have been guilty of it in any number of instances ;
still if the particular act sought to be avoided be not shown
to be tainted with fraud, it cannot be affected by those other
frauds', unless in some way or other ii be connected with or
form a part of them.
It may be proper in this place to observe, in 'relation to
the frauds alleged to have been committed by Bailey aid
Edward Thomson, to the prejudice of the United States; that"
they cannot affect the rights of the plaintiff or of Smith and
Nicoll, unless it be proved to your satisfaction that Bailey
was at the time he committed them the general agent of
those parties, or that he committed them in some transac-_
-tion within the scope of a special agency, and in connexion
with or otherwise affecting these securities.
The first instance of alleged fraud, by the plaintiff, or by
Smith and Nicoll, is the taking of these securities from a
man known-by those persons to be a debtor to the United
States, and believed by them to be in a state of insolvency.
But this is not a fraud even in England, unless the security
be given in contemplation or on the eve of bankruptcy, and
unless the assignment or transfer in favdur of such prefer.red
creditor or creditors, exhaust the whole estate of the. debtor,
or approach so near as that the bxception is merely colouraapble(a). But in a case where the bankrupt law loes not
ply,there can be no doubt that a debtor may lawfully give a
preference to a particular creditor or set of creditors; if there
be a delivery of possession where it can be done, although
his other creditors may thereby be hindered or delayed in payment of their debts. The cas6 of Holbird vs. Anderson(b)is a strong case in'stippoit'of this principle. How far the
right of preference of the United States can be affected by
an assignment of their debtor for the benefit of his creditors, will be considered under another head.
(a) I Bur. 478-481.
(b) 5 Tr. Rep. 235.

VOL. IV.-2 N

See also 8Tr. Rep. 521.

SUPREME COURT.
[Conard vs. Nicoll.]

The other instances of alleged fraud are2. Alteration in the form of the memorandum to the respondentia bonds, thereby making the homeward cargoes
deliverable to order.
3. Taking bills of sales of Edward Thomson's vessels, by
-the plaintiff or by Smith and Nicoll ; surrendering them on
arrival of the vessel', and then taking new ones; practised
by thiose persons, in repeated instances, prior to the year
1825.
4. Having on board these vessels on
their arrival double
papers; that is to say, a general bill of lading of the whole
homeward cargo, and also several bills of lading of the parts
covered by the respondentia bonds and outward bills of
lading.
5. Upholding tne credit of Edward Thomson by the
Nicolls; although !the desperate state of his affairs was
'known to them.
'6. Antedating tde respondentia bonds to make them conform to the outward bills.of lading.
7. Want of possession of the vessels and cargoes covered
by the plaintiff's securities.
Lastly, the persuasions used by the Nicolls, to induce Edward Thomson to trade on the credit for duties allowed by
the United States.
It may be sufficient for the present to observe, generally,
that these acts, nor either of them, although they should be
proved to the satisfaction of the jury, are or is,per se, fraudulent. This, it is believed, may be satisfactorily shown by a
more particular consideration of these acts of alleged fraud.
1. As to the alteration in the form of the memorandum : it
will be sufficient to observe that no principle of law has been
referred to, or ease cited, to countenance this objection. It
would on the contrary seem to have been strictly correct to
make the alteration in a case where the outward and homeward cargoes were transferred, not absolutely, but merely as
collateral security, if the debt for which they were pledged
should not-be paid on the arrival of the vessel, or be otherwise secured according to the stipulations of the bond.
2. As to the -practice of the plaintiff and of Smith and
Nicoll prior to the year 1825, in surrendering the bills of sale

JANUARY TERM 1830
[Conard vs. Nicoll.]

which they had obtained of Edward Thomson's vessels upon
their arrival, and then renewing them as soon as those vessels had been entered; should it be admitted, (which I am
not to be understood as admitting), to have been fiaudulent
as it concerned the United States; it is not-easy to perceive
how it can be made to infect with fraud the bills of sale made
to the plaintiff in July and October 1825; which never were
surrendered, but on the contrary were used as the foundation
of the plaintiff's claim to the possession of the vessels, which
they respectively conveyed immediately on their arrival in'
1826. If there has been any evidence given to connect
these transactions together, so as to bring them within the
operation of one of the principles before, mentioned, the jury
will judge of it.
3. As to the double papers oft board of these vessels: the
question is, were they contrived with a view to defraud the
United States of the duties on the cargoes of those vessels,
or may not a legitimate purpose for the use of them be fairly
presumed 1 Let it always be kept in mind; that these cargoes
were not sold to the plaintiff, but were merely pledged' as
collateral security. If on their arrival they were redeemed,
they would then become the absolute property of Edward
Thomson; who would be absolved from his obligation to deliver the particular bills of lading to the plaintiff, and be
entitled to enter them as owner under the general bill of
lading. If they were not redeemed, then the plaintiff would
enter'them as the owner of the bills of lading-tdorder, and
which by the agreement were to be delivered to him. There
would seem therefore to have been a fitness to this state of
things in the arrangement now complained of..
4. That a false representation by one person of the credit
of another, by which a third person is deceived and injured,
is a fraudupon the parties so deceived, is undeniable. A letter of credit, giving to the person in whose favour it is written a character for solidity, which the writer knows to be
untrue, is .of this description. But to uphold the credit of a
merchant by advances to.any amount made by his friends,
or by his creditors, for the purpose of preventing his failure,
and of enabling him to go on, under the expectation that he

SUPREME COURT.
[Conard vs. Nicoll.]

may thereby acquire the means of discharging his debts, and
of maintaining a standing in the commercial world; has never
yet been decided, by any English or American court, to be a
fraud upon any third person, who, misled by appearances, may
have dealt with and given credit to the person so assisted.
No case resembling it has been produced or alluded to.
There is, infact, an absence of that kind of suggestio falsi,
or suppressio veri, which the law considers as amounting to
actual or even constructive fraud.
It is insisted that the conduct of the Nicolls, in this particular, was a conftivance to give a false cfedit to Edwird
Thomson at the customhouse, for the purpose of enabling
him to defraud the United States of their duties on the goods
entered .inhis name. But is this likely?. If the customhouse officers were faithful to the duties which the law imposed upon them, and which they had solemnly engaged to
perform ; how was it possible that the United States could be
defrauded, or in any manner prejudiced by such a contrivanceS. Their duty was to retain the custody of the teas under their'own lock and key until the duties were paid, or
such- security given as should be entirely satisfactory to them.
Could it have entered into the minds of any persons, that
officers so bound, and so confided in by their country, could
so far betray their trust, as to open the doors of their warehouses to Edward Thomson, to take out teas whenever and
to whatever amount he pleased 'without permits, and without
paying or securing the duties upon them ; by giving solid and
satisfactory sureties to pay them when they should become
due . It is the sufficiency of the sureties, and not that of the
principal, that the law looks to; I am not to be understood
as saying that the conspiracy or contrivance imputed to these
parties was not or could not have been in their contemplation. But when we are upon the subject of motives and intention,'the improbability of their existence deserves consideration. If, indeed, the illegal abduction.of the teas, with
the anticipated and known coinivance of the customhouse
officers, formed a part of the -contrivance, a case of fraud
would be made out; and it wfil be for the jury to decide
whether the participation of the plaintiff, or of Smith and

JANUARY TERM 1830.

301

[Conard vs. Nico]l.']

Nicoll, in those disgraceful transactions, is made out 4y the
evidence in the cause.
5. 1 pass over the next objection, with this single olservation ; that the indorsement of the outward bills of lating t&
the plaintiff for a full consideration, (if it should be the
opinion of the jury that such was the fact), transferred to
him the property mentioned in them; and if the bonds with
the memorandum annexed were agreed by the parties to
form parts of the securities to be given to the plaintiff, .there
was no impropriety, much less fraud, in antedating the latter
so as to make them conform to the former.
6. The objection, that possession of the ships and their
cargoes was not delivered at the time they were tiansferred,
was so fully refuted by the supreme court, in the case of
Conard vs. The Atlantic Insurance Company ; that it would
be a waste of time for this court to notice'it further than by
observing, that the outward cargoes and their proceeds were
mortgaged, not conveyed absolutely to the plaintiff- .hat the
ships were at or beyond sea, at the time they were conveyed; and that possession of them was demaled and refused
by the officers of the United States as soon as they arrived.
These facts are not disputed, and the legal result is, that under these circumstances the want of possession is not a
badge of fraud.
7. The last instance of fraud relied upon by the defendant's counsel is, that Edward Thomson was induced by the
Nicolls, contrary to his own wishes, to trade upon the credit
for the duties allowed him by the United States, instead of
holding his funds in order to discharge those duties when
they should become payable.
To this objection it has been asked, and it seems to the
court with great propriety, for what other purpose was the'
extended credit of two years given, but to enable the owner
of teas in store, or on bond, to trade on his capital in the
mean time'
If it was a fraud in him' to employ his capital
otherwise than in retaining it to meet the claim of the United States at the expiration of the two years, it is difficult
to perceive the advantage which the credit bestowed upon
him, or the policy of the law in granting it. And if it was

SUPREME COURT.
[Conard -s. Nicoll.]

not a fraud in Edward Thomson so to employ his capital; it
coiuld not be so in the Nicolls to influence him to exercise
the privilege to which he was legally entitled.
I now pass from the question of fVaud to other objections
to the plaintiff~s right of rdcovery, which not having occured in the case of Conard V3. The Atlantic insurance Company, will demand particular attention.
3. The third objection to the plaintiff's recovery is founded upon an acknowledged variance, though to a very trifling
amount, in the number and description of the boxes or packages of teas between the declaration and the proof.
I-do not understand the objection as being urged to the
extent of defeating the action altogether; since the counsel
who inged it could not but know that a mere variance as to
number, magnitude, extent, &c. is immaterial, ev'en in criminal prosecutions, unless the quantum be descriptive of the
nature of the charge or claim(a). The objection is no
doubt intended to apply to the damages claimed by the
plaintiff, in case the jury may legally give any in this case.
As to this view of the subject, I take the rule, in ordinary
cases, to be, that the plaintiff can only recover according to
his proof, where that falls short of the number, &c. stated
in the declaration ; but if it exceed, the plaintiff cannot recover beyond what his declaration demands.
Although the agreements between the plaintiff and the.
United States and their counsel, might, in this case, vary this
rule unfavourably to the United.States; still, as the difference
between'the number of chests stated in the declaration, and
those given in evidence, is trifling in amount, I shall direct
the jury to adopt the rule in ordinary cases, as alreddy mentioned.
4. The next objection is of a more serious character. It
is insisted that the transfers made by Edward Thomson to
the plaintiff, under which he clairhs the proceeds in question, divested him-of all, or nearly all, of his property; and
that the plaintiff, in respect to' Ihe right of preference of the
United States, is to be treated as a trustee or general assignee
(a) Stark. Evid. 1528, 1538.

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Conard vs. Nicoll.]

--

of the effects of Edward Thomson, within the meaning-of the
sixty-fifth section of the duty act of the 2d March 1799.
I take'the rule, as now well settled by the supreme court,
to be, that thd preference of the United States does not extend to cases where the debtor has not made an assignment
of the whole of his property. If the assignment leave out
a ti-ial part of his property, for the purpose of evading the
act giving the preference, it will be considered as a fraud
upon the law, and the court will treat it as a total divestment(a).
But does this rule, or the reason upon which itis founded,
apply to a mortgage of the whole of the debtor's property !.
I ask the question, and shall reason upon it without meaning to decide it; since it was not made or discussed at the
bar. On the contrary, and for that reason, I shall instruct
the jury to consider these transfers as absolute, so far as they
concern the right of preference claimed by the United States.
The difference between a mortgage, and an absolute conveyance of. the whole of the debtor's estate and effects for
the benefit of a particular creditor or set of creditors, is,
that in the latter case he divests himself of the whole, not
only of his property, but of his credit, and his intention to
do so is apparent from the act itself. If he be a merchant,
he must stop; and the conclusion is inevitable, that the conveyance was made with a view to a legal insolvency.
But a mortgage does not necessarily divest the 'mortgagor
of the whole of the property which it conveys. An equity
of redemption still remains in him, which is property, Worth
to the owner of it all the difference between the value of the
pledge and the sum for which it is pledged; which he may
sell and convey, or devise; which will descend ; and may be
levied upon under an execution. Suppose that, from some
of those circumstances which are constantly occurring to
raise or to depress the market for particular a.rticles of commerce, the teas in question had been worth, at the period of
importation, greatly more than the amount for which these
securities were given ; the excess would have belonged, not
'a) United States us. Hoel, 3 Cranch, 91.

SUPREME COURT.
[Conard vs. Nicoll.]

to the plaintiff, -but to Edward Thomson; in which event
it would appear that no act of legal insolvency had been
committed; and -yetit was committed, if'.at all, at the time
the securities or mortgages were given.
Neither does it follow that such a mortgage as has been
spoken of destroys the credit of the debtor, compels him (if'
a merchant) to stop, or that it is given in contemplation of a
legaPinsolvency. The reverse would seem to be the case,
since (if the transaction be bona fide) the mortgage can be
preferred to an absolute conveyance, for no other purpose
but to avoid those consequences. I say, if made bona fide,
because I admit,, that if the mode of conveyance by way of
mortgage or pledge be a mere device to defeat the right of
preference of the United States, (a fact to be decided by.all
the circumstances of the case), it would be a fraud, and t*he
mortgagee would be treated as a tru.tee to the extent of the
claim of the United States.
I shall pursue this inquiry no farther; ,since, for the reason'before mentioned, I shall instruct the jury to consider
these securities,in ieference to the question now under consideration, as if they were absolute transfers.
Eviaence has been given in this case3 that Edward Thom'ontinued his commercial transactions'as usual, until the
16th 1r 1.7th of November 1825, when the Nicol!s entered
up judgments against him, which entirely prostrated him, so
that on. the 19th of. that month he made a general assignment for the benefit of his creditors. The questions then for
the jury under this head, will be, 1st, Was EdwardThomson
insol.,etand unable to pay all his'debts at the time whep
these securities were given to the plaintiff!. And 2d, Did tfrey
divest him of all his property, (or if not, was the part reserved trivial;) with intent to defeat the rights of preference of
'the United States? If these facts are proved to your satisfaction, then the transfers are to be considered as constructively divesting Edward Thomson of all his property, so as
o let in the priority of the United States against the plaintiff.
The cessation from business by Edward Thomson after the
transfere, an intention to make a general assignment, and to
nommit an act .of legal insolvency, at the time these secu-

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Conard vs. Nicoll.]

rities were given, may be considered, if proved, as evidence
that they were colourable and fraudulent as to the United
States.
But ifEdward Thomson, though unable to-pay all his-debts,
did not divest himself of all his property, either actually or
constructively; and if the securities were giveb bona fide to
secure debts justly due to the plaintiff in the ordinary course
of business; the right of preference of the United States did
not attach as a consequence of those securities, so as to defeat the right of the plaintiff to the property in question.
The facts that Edward Thomson continued to transact his
mercantile business, and to pay his debts as usual, and finally
made a general assignment, not voluntarily, but by compulsion, may, if proved to your satisfaction, be considered as
evidence that these securities were not colourable, or intended to. defeat the right of preference of ihe United States.
5. The next subject of your inquiry is, whether the homeward cargoes, forming parts of the property in dispute, we.e
the proceeds of the outward cargoes which were pledged to
the plaintiff! Unless this fact be proved to your satisfaction, the plaintiff shows no title whatever to them. The evidence relied upon by the plaintiff is:
Ist. The correspondence in amount and value between the
outward and homeward bills of lading and invoices; except
in one instance, where it was stated by Rodney Fisher part
of the outward cargo was used for the disbursements of the
ship.
2d. The delivery of the homeward bills-of lading to the
plaintiff, immediately on their-arrival, by Peter Mackie, the
confidential and chief clerk of Edward Thomson, before his
fhilure, and one of his general assignees; through whose
hands, and. by whose agency, it is insisted, all these negotiations, from their commencement, were transacted, and
who knew, better than any other person, to whom the respec-.
tive bills of lading belonged.
3d., The evidence of Peter Mackie, which you have heard.
The fact must be decided by the jury, upon this and any
opposing evidence given on the part of the defendants.
"6. It is next ohjected that the securities in question were
VOL. IV.-2 0

SUPREME COURT.
(Conard vs."Nicoll.]

given in -consideration of responsibilities entered
into by
the Nicolls, and not for moneys actually paid by them
for, or
lent to, Edward Thomson.

In Conard vs. The American Insurance Company,
it was
objected that the debt for which the respondenti
and other
securities wdre given, was of too contingent a nature
to uphold a mortgage as collateral security. In answer',
it
was
said by the judge who delivered the opinion of
the court,
"We know of no principle or decision to warrant
this conclusion. Mortgages may as well be given to secure
advances and contingent debts, as those that already future
exist,
and are certain and due. The only question
is the bona
fides of the transaction."
I understand the objection now made to apply to
the discharge by the Nicolls of Edward Thomson's respondentia
bonds to the New York insurance offices. There
is no proof,
it is said, tht these were paid by the Nicolls,
but merely
that they made themselves responsible to those
offices that
they should be paid.
But if you are satisfied, from the evidence before
you,
the Nicolls discharged Edward Thomson from those that
debts,
by taking up and delivering over to him the
evidence of
them, Edward Thomson from -that moment became
the
debtor of the person who had thus. discharged him;
and it is
not important to the plaintiff's recovery in this case
to
how the arrangement was made with those creditors,prove
and
that actual payment was made at the time when the
sedfities
in question were given. I know of no principle
which prevents a person from taking a valid security, by respondentia
or otherwise, in consideration of responsibilities entered
into
by him for debts due by the person giving them,
which
he
afterwards pays off or satisfies, and from which
he had discharged such person, as against his original creditor.
7. It is objected, on the part of the defendant, that
the securities in question are usurious, .inasmuch as
they cover
interest on the debts due by Edward Thomson to
the Nicolls,
from a period antecedent to the. loans or advances
which
created the debts. If this should appear to the-jury
to be
the fa!t) the charge of usury is made out, and the
securities

JANUARY TERM 1830.
EConard vs. Nicoll.]

would be void, according to the law of the state of New
York. But the law of this state is otherwise; it does not
avoid the security, but merely prevents the creditor from
recovering more than the legal interest. Whether more
than legal interest was covered by these securities, or any,
or either of them; and whether they were executed in this
-state or in the state of New York; are questions for the decision of the jury.
If the objection is intended to apply to the marine interest
merely, it presents a different subject for consideration.
Marine interest is allowable, though exceeding the rate of legal interqst, as a compensation, not forforbearance, but for
the nisk which the lender assumes, by which both principal
and interest may be lost by the casualties of the voyage.
As to that, the question turns solely upon the bona fides of
the transaction-whether the security given be a bona fide
marine contract, bottomed upon property of sufficient value
on board and at the risk of tie lender, or is a mere device
to cover an usurious transaction ; and whether it was the one
or the other in the present case, are questions for the jury to
decide.
8. The last objection to the plaintiff's right to recover is,
that theconveyances and securities given byEdward Thomson
to the plaintiff amounted to acts oflegal bankruptcy;ih conse-,
quence of which.the preference of the United States attached, and the plaintiff is to be considered as a trustee to the
extent of the claims of the United States. The argument is,,
that these conveyances and securities, considering them as
one transaction, would, according to the bankrupt laws of
England, amount to an act of bankruptcy; and that the sixtyfifth section of the dtty act of the 2d of March 1799, was
intended to give to the United States a right of preference
from the time when, according to that law, 'an act of bankruptcy was committed.
This is by no means the opinion of the court.- The section refers to state bankrupt laws; and pethaps to a bankrupt law of the United States, when one should pass; but
could have no reference whatever to the bankrupt laws of
England. Nor does it, in my opinion; refer the right of

SUPREME COURT.
[Conard vs. Nicoll.]

preference of the United States to an act of bankruptcy unaccompanied by some other act.
To understand the meaning of this section, we must construe the enacting clause and the proviso together. The
former declares no more than that in all cases of insolvency, or where an estate in the hands of an executor, administrator or assignees, should be insufficient to pay all the debts
of the deceased, the debts due to the United States should be
first satisfied by those persons. It provides for only two
cases, viz. a living insolvent, having an assignee, and a dead
insolvent, represented by executors or administrators.
But the inquiry would naturally have arisen in the mind
of the legislature; how-is the expression insolvency to be
understood !. This is, explained by the proviso; for which
purpose alone, it is apparent, it was introduced. It declares
that the expression shall extend to the following case, viz.
Ist. Where a debtor, not having sufficient property to pay
all his debts, shall make a voluntary assignment thereof for
the benefit of his creditors.
2d. Where his estate and effects have been attached on account of his being an absconding, concealed, or absent
debtor.
3d. To cases in which an act of legal bankruptcy shall
have been committed; that is, as the construction of the
proviso in connexion with the enacting clause seems necessarily to require, to cases where the property. is in the hands
of assignees, not by voluntary assignment only, but by assignment made in virtue of any state bankrupt law, or (possibly) of any bankrupt law of the United States which might
thereafter be passed.
There must be an assignment, either voluntary or compulsory, or else there can be no assignee to be made liable to
the United States under the enacting clause. If a mere act
of bankruptcy be sufficient to give rise to the preference of
the United States from the moment of its commission, where
is the assignee who is first to satisfy the claims of the United States out of the estate of the debtor, under the penalty,
stated in the enacting clause, of satisfying it out of his own
estate.

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Co'nard vs. Nicoll.]

If it be said that when the assignment of the bankrupt's.
estate shall be made, the preference of the United States
will relate back to the act of bankruptcy so as to overreach
intermediate bona fide securities given by the insolvent to
creditors: I can only answer, that the assumption is altogether'
gratuitous, and receives no countenance from any part of
this or any other act on this subject.
The last question to be decided is, whether the jury are
prevented by the agreement-between the plaintiff and the
UnitedStates or tleir counsel, or by the delivery of the property levied upon by the defendant to the plaintiff under the
agreement, from giving damages in this case7 I am clearly of
opinion that they are not. As to the surrender of the property to the plaintiff, that could not, in an ordinary case, if
put into the form of a plea, bar the right of the plaintiff to
damages -foran illegal taking, unless it were surrendered by
the defendant, and received by the plaintiff in satisfabtio.
of damages. But so far from the accord in this case having
been in sati8sfaction of damages, the bond expressly stipulates-that it is to be "without prejudice to any existing right."
The jury may, therefore give such reasonable damages as
the plaintiff has actually sustained by the seizure and detention of the property in dispute, in case they should be of
opinion that the plaintiff is entitled to that property or to its
proceeds. They ought not to give vindictive or speculative
damages.
Upon the whole,_if the plaintiff has established his right of
property in the ships and cargoes claimed by him under the
assignments and conveyances that have been given 'in evidence to establish that right; he is entitled to their proceeds
and to your verdict in his favour, together with such damages
as you may think him entitled to. If, on the other hand,,he
has failed to establish such right, or if in your opinion his
title is invalidated by the objections, or some one or more
of them, made to it, then the United States are entitled to the
proceeds; and in that case you ought to find for the defen-'
dant."
The case was submitted to this cdurt without argument,

310

SUPREME COURT,
[Canard vs. NicoU.]

by Mr Berrien,- attorney general, for the plaintiff in error,
and by Mr Sergeant and Mr Webster for the defendaut.
Mr Justice BALDwn delivered the opinion of the Court.

This cauise has been submitted without argument. It is in
all its leading features, both in the points of law which arose
and the evidence given at the trial, so similar to the case of
Conard vs. The Atlantic Insurance Company, decided by
ihis court at January term 1828, 1 Peters, 386, that we do
not think it necessary to enter into an examination of the
principles on which the judge submitted the cause to the
jury. They appear to us to be in perfect accordance with
the opidion delivered in that case, on great deliberation; of
the entire correctness of which we do not entertain a doubt.
There is no error in the record of the circuit court, and
the judgment is affirmed, with six per cent interest and costs.

