JANUARY TERM 1830.

JULIE SOUIARD, WIDOW,

AND OTHERS, APPELLANnS-vs.

THE

UNITED' STATES.

JOHN

T.

SmTH, AriELLANT vs. THE UMTED STkTES.

inthe treaty by which Louisiana was acquired, the United States stipulated that

the inhabitants of the ceded territory should be protected in the free enjoyment of their property. The United States, as a just nation, regard this'stipulatin as the avowal of a principle. which would have been held equally sacred;
though it had not been inserted in the contract.
The term "property," as applicd 'to lands, comprehends eviry species of title inchoate or complete. It is supposed to embrace those rights which lie in
contract; those which are executory; as well as those which are executed. In

this respect, the relations of the inhabitants of Louisiana to their government
is not changed. The new government takes the place of that which has passed away.

THESE cases came before the court, on appeals froa-the
district court of the United States for the district of Missouri.
In the district court of Missouri, the appellants, under the
act of congress of the 26th of May 1824, instituted proceedings to try the validity of their ,claims to certain lands in
Missouri; the titles to which they claimed to derive under the
former Spanish gove-,iment.
The district court gave a decree against the claimants.
The cases were argued by Mr Benton, for the appellants,
and by Mr Wirt, for the United States.
The facts of the cases and the arguments'of the counsel
are not reported, as the court held the causes under advisement.
Mr Chief Justice MARSHALL stated,
The court have held the two cases of Soulard and John
T..Smith against the United States under advisement. After bestowing upon them the most deliberate attention, we
.are unable to form a judgment which would be saiisfitctory
to ourselves, oi which ought to satisfy the public.
In the trcaty by which Louisiana was aequired, the United-

SUPREME COURT.
[Soulard and others vs. The United States.]

States stipulated that the inhabitants of .the ceded territory
should be protected in the free enjoyment of their property.
The United States, as a just nation, regard this stipulation
as the' avowal of a principle which .would have been held
equally sacred, 1houghit had not been inserted 'iki the contract.
The term "property,"- as applied to -lands, comprehends
every species of title:inchQate or complete. It is supposed
to embrace those rights which lie 'incontract; those which
are exeoutory; as well as those which are executed. In this
respect the relation of the inhabitants to their government'
is not changed. The new. government takes. the place of
that which has passed away.
In the full confidence that this is the sentiment by which the.
government of the United States is animated- and which has
bben infused into its legislation, the court have sought sedulously for that information which would enable it to discern
the actual rights of the -parties; and to distinguish between
claims founded on legitimate contracts with those authorised
to make them- on the part of the crown, or its immediat6
agents, and such as were entirely dependent on-the mere
pleasure of those who might be in power.; such as might be
rejected without giving just cause of imputation against the
faith of those in office. The search has been unavailing.
When Louisiana waj transferred to the United States,
very'few titles to lands, in the upper part of that province
especially, were complete. The practice seems to have
prevailed for the deputy governor, souietimes the commandants of posts, to place individuals in possession of small
tracts, anAl to protect that possession without further pro- .
ceeding. Any intrusion on this possession produced a complaint to the immediate supervising officer of the district or
post, who inquired into it, and adjusted the dispute. The
people seem to have remained contented with this condition; The colonial government, for some time previous to
the cession, appears to have been without funds, and to
have been in the habit of remunerating seryices with land
instead of money.: Many of these concessions remained incomplete.

JANUARY TERM 1830..
[Soulard and others ts. The United Stteaj

If the duty of deciding on these various titles is translerred
by the government to the jpdicial department, the laws and
principles on which they depend . ought to be supplied.The edicts of the preceding governments in relation to tne
ceded territory ; the powers given to the' governors, whether
expressed in their commissions, or 'in special instruction;
and the powers conferred on and exercised .by the deputy
g~vernors, and other inferior officers, who may have been
authorised to allow the inception of title; are all material to
a correct decision of the cases now before the court, and
which may come before it. We cannot doubt the dispositon of the government to f~rnish this information if it be
attainable. We are far from being confident that it is 'attainable ; but have determined to hold the cases which have
been argued under advisement until the next term, in the hope
that, in the mean time, we may be relieved from the neces-sity o1 deciding conjecturally on interests of great importance.
The chief justice added: Since ihe determination which
has been communicated had been agreed upon, the cohrt
has been informed -that the edict of August the 24th 1770
is in the office of the secretary of state.
Had that edict been sufficieqt for the decision of the
court, they would have disposed of the cases at this term.
But other information is required, which -has been referred to
in the opinion. It is-therefore considered proper to hold the
cases under advisement.-

