JANUARY TERM 1830.

893 ,

SARAH SPRATT, AD=N=RTATiX OF JAxEs SPRATT, APPELLANT,
v.. THO.AS.SPRATT, APPELLEE.

The second section of the act of. congress '.to establish an uniform system of
naturalization," passed in 1802, requirea that every person desirous of being
natuialized, shall make report of himselffio the clerk of the district court of
the district where he shall arrive, or some ofher court of record in the United
States ; which report is to be iecorded, and a cerlifcate of'the same given to
such alien ; and "whiclf certificate shall be exhibited to the court by every
alien who moy arrive in the United States after the passing of the act, 6n his
application to be naturalized; as evidence of the time of his arrival within the
United States." James Spratt arrived in the United States after the passing
of this act, and was under the obligation to report'himsdif according to its
provisions. The law does not require that the report shall have been made
five ylears before the application for naturalization. The third condition of
the first section of the law, which declares that the court admitting an alien
to become a citizen "shall be satisfied that he has resided five yeis in the
Ustited States," &c. does not prescribe the ividence which shall be satisfactory. The report is reqtfired -by the law to be exhibited on the application for
naturalization, as evidence of the time of arrival in the United States. The
law does not say the report shall be the solo evidence; nor does it require that
the alien shall report himself within any limiited time after arrival. Five years
may intervene between the time of arrival and the report, and yet the report
be valid. The report is undoubtedly-conclusive evidence of the arrival ; but
it is not made by the law the only evidence of that fact. [406]
Jawes Spratt was admitted a citizen of the United States by the circuit court for
the county of Washihigton, in the district of -Columbia, and obtained a certificate of the same in the usual form. The act of the court admitting James
Spratt as s citizen, was a judgment of the. circuit out; 'and this court cannot
look behind it, and inquire on what testimony it was pronounced. [406]
The various acts on the-subject of naturalization, submit the decision upon the
right of aliens to courts of record. They are to receive- testimony, to compare it with the law, and to judge on both law and fact. If their judgment is
entered on record, in legal form, it closes all inquiry; and like any other judgment is complete evidence of its own validity. [408]
The act of the legislature of Maryland of 1791, which authorises the descent to
alien heirs of lands held by aliens under "deed or will," in that part of the
district of Colunbia which was ceded to the "United States by the state of
Maryland;does not authorise the descent to such heirs of land, in that part of
the district, which was purchased by an alien at a sale made under an order
of the court of chancery, and for which no deed was executed before the purchaser became a citizti of teUnited States, or before his decease. [408]

THIS case came before the court from the circuit court
for he county of Washington, in the district of Columbia,
on a case stated in that court.
VOL. V.-2

SUPREME .COURT..
[Spratt vs. Spratt.]

The plaintiff,. Thomas Spratt, instituted in the circuit
court an action of replevin, the defendant, as the administratrix of James Spratt, having levied a distress on the property of the plaintiff, for rent claimed to be due for a house
9ccupied by him in the- city of Washington, and to which
he claimed title in himself, and in the brothers and sisters
of 'James Spratt, deceased. It was agreed, by the counsel,
that the title'to the house and lot.' of ground upon which
the same is erected,-should be determined upon the following stated facts:
Thomas Spratt, Andrew' Spratt, Sarah Spratt and Catha-rine'Spratt, are brothers and- sisters of the whole blood of
James Spratt the intestate, and are natives of Ireland, and
subjects of the king of Great Britain, and were not, before
the institution of this suit, naturalized as citizens of the United States; and but one of them, Thomas Spratt, and the deceased,.James Spratt, ever came to the United States. James
Spratt was also. a native of Ireland, and came to the United
Statessome time before the lSih of June 1812; from which
time he continued to reside in the United States until March
1824, when he died wi thout issue, leaving Sarah Spratt
his widow, who became the admini3tratrix to his estate.
James Spratt, on the _17th of May_ 1817, appeared iix the
circuit court of the district of Columbia for the county of
Washington, and bef9re the court made the declaration on
oath required by the first condition of the first section of the
act to establish an uniform system of naturalization, &c.. passed the 14th of April 1802 - which proceeding was recorded in
the minutes of the cour.t's procepedings, and a 'certificate
thereof, .under the hand of the clerk and the seal of the court,
on the same day given, to James Spratt; he having, on the
i4th of April then next preceding, made report of himseff to
the clerk of 'the circuit court,'as tated in the certificate ;
w.hich report was recorded in the oflice of the. said clerk,
and the certificate of sucb report and registry, and of the
declaration on oath, having been granted by the clerk to.
him. On the I 1th of October 1821,. James Spratt made
application to the said circuit court to be admitted a citizen of the United States; and was, on the same day, ad-

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Spmtt ss. SpraW.]

mitte l'by the court to become a 'citizen of the 'United
States, as appears by the record of the proceedings of the
court, upon the matter of the said- application: a certificate whereof,- under the hand of. the clerk, 'and the--seal of
the court, was afterwards given 'by the clerk to him, and is
part of the case.
Sarah Spratt was 'alio a native of 1reland,and a xativeborn subject of the king of England; she emigrated to the
United States before lames .Spratt, 'and hasq con'tinually,
from the time of her emigration, resided in the. United
States; and before his naturalization was lawfully married
to him, and lived with him as his lawful wife, from their
marriage til his deathi in March 1824, and was his wife at
and before the time of lAis said- naturalization ; but has not
been naturalized as a citizen of the United States pursuant
to the act of congress, unless so naturalized by'the naturalization .ofher husband.
,On the 9th of June 1825, the plaintiff and his brothers
and sistbrs, claiming as heirs at "law of 'James Spiatt,
brought their action of ejectment'in this court, against Sarah Spratt, to recover possession of sundry of the. lands and
tenements whereof James Spratt died seised in fee, not including the messuage and tenement in this suit : in which suit
(the same having been duly prosecuted and put to issue)
such proceedings were had, that the title of Thomas Spratt
was duly Aubmitted to the 'consideration. and judgment of
the court, upon q case agreed and stated between the parties, to be taken and considered as a special verdict; upon
which the court gave judgment for S~rah Spratt; whereupon a writ of error wap sued out to the supreme court of the
United States, where the judgment was re-examined, as
appears in I Peters, 343; which is part of the case.
In the matter of a suit in the circtlit court of .the county
of Washington, by one of the creditors of Simon Mefide, deceased-, Joseph Forrest was appointed to make sale of certain real estate of Simon Meade, and after having set up
the same for public sale, to return the sale to the court for'
cofirmation'; qnd having on-the 21st day of May 182i, set

SUPREME COURT.
[Spratt vs. Spratt.]

up the estate on terms specified,,by which the purchase
money was- to be paid in four ihistalments, at six, twelve,
eighteen and twenty-four months, and that a conveyance of
the property should be made to the purchaser on the ratification of the sale by the court. The house and lot in question, in this case, were purchased by James Spratt; and on
the 21st October 1821, the trustee returned the sale to the
court. On the 24th of December 1822, an interlocutory order
was made.'for the ratification of the report of the sale; and
in January' 1824, a final ratification of the sale was passed
by the court.
James Spratt, after his naturalization, and not before, paid
the purchase *iloney for the property by the instalments,
with interest; but no deed of conveyance of the same was
ever executed to him, and he died invested-with no other
title to the premises in controversy.but what- he acquired by
the sale 'at auction, the written memorandum, report and
ratification thereof, and the payment of the purchase money.
In the~statement of the case thus agreed, there was inserted, the.following memorandum ; which was signed by the
counsel for ihe parties in the cause.
"It is understood, however, that the plaintiff does' not
admit, but denesi'that the proceeding and evidence touching the naturalization otf James Spratt,.pr any part of the
same, do purport to be, or to -show a due and. legal' naturalization of James Spratt as a citizen of the United Sttes ;
and maintains- that the manner and process of such pretended
naturalization appears.from such proceedings and evidence
to have been irregular- and void ; unlesg, such proceedings
and evidence, or any part of the same, be held by 'the court
to be conclusive 'in .this case, that he -was duly and legally
naturalized as such citizen. While the defendant.and avowant-o1 the other, hand maintains, that no defect *or.irregulgirity appears in the manner and'process of such naturalization;
that the manner-and process of the .same in its preliminary
stages are not examinable .in -this case; but that the admission of James Spratt to become a citizen 'of the United
States, as it appears in the record and certificate thereof; is,
either substantively or in connexion 'with the other evidence

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Spratt vs. Spratt.]

thereof, conclusive of his due.naturalization as such citizen:
all which matters aTe understood and agreed to be involved
in the luestion of title, and o be accordingly reserved for
the consideration and judgment of the 6ourt upon the premises."
The declaration for naturalization made by James Spratt,
was in khe following terms :
"James Spratt, a native of Ireland, aged about twentysix years, bearing allegiance to the king 'of Great Britain
and Ireland, who emigrated from Ireland, and arrived in the
United States on the 1st of June 1812, and.intends toreside
within the jurisdiction and under the government of the
Upited States, makes report of himself for naturalization according to the acts of c6ngress in thfrt case made and provided, the f4th of April, anno domini 1817, in the clerk's
office of the circuit court of the district of Columbia for thecounty of Washington: and on t'he 14th of May 1817, the
said James Spratt personally appeared in open 'court, -and
declared oh oath, that it is bona fide his intention to become
a citizen of the United States, and to renounce all allegiance and fidelity to every foreign prince," &c.
W. BRENT,. Clerk.
The record of the proceedings of the circuit court on the
naturalization 6f James Spratt is in the following terms :
"At a circuit court of the district of Columbia, begun
and held in and for the county of Washington, at the city
of Washington, on the'first Monday of October, being the
1st day of the same month, in the year of our lord J821,
and of the independence of the United States the- fortysixth.
-" James Spratt, a native of Ireland,. aged" about thirty
years, having heretofore, to wit, on the 14th of .May 1817,
declared, on oath, in open court, that it was bona fide his
intention to become a citizen of the United Staies, and to
rehounce fQr ever all allegiance and fidelity to every foreigri
prince, potentate, state or sovereignty whatever, and particularly to the king of the united kingdom of Great Britain
and Ireland.
"And it now appearing to the satisfaction of.the cpurt by

SUPREME COURT.
[Spratd vs. Spratt.]

the testimony of two witnesses, citizens of th- United States,
to wit, Samuel N. Smallwood, and'Jonathan Prout, that the
said James Spratt.hath resided within the limits and under
the jurisdiction of the United States for five years at least last.
past, and within the county of Washington one year at least
last past, and that during tire whole of that time he hath
behaved as a man of good moral character, attached tothe
principles of the constitution of the United States, and well
disposed to the good order and happiness of the same--tile
said James Spratt is thereupon admitted a' citizen of the Ufiited States ; having taken the oath ' that he will support the.
constitution of the United States, and that he doth 'absolutely
and entirely renounce and abjure all allegiance and fidelity
to' every foreign prince, potentate, state or sovereignty
whatever; and particularly to. the king of the uhited kingdoam. of Great Britain and Ireland, to whom he wasbefo
a subject.. 1th of October 1821."
A certificate in'due form, corresponding with this record,
was given to James-Spratt.
For the appellant, it was contended,
1-. That the admissibn of said Jahies Spratt to citizenship,
as stated in the record, was legal.
2. Thht whether regular or not, it is conclusive, as the
judgmeit of a court-upon asubject within its jurisdiction.
S. That whether so .r'not, the parties are concluded by
the admission in the-former case stated.
4. -That no deed or conveyance having ever pasged to
James-,Spratt in his life, the appellees could ndt inherit
under the-act of Maryland.
5. That if the Maryland law would, entitle the appellees
to inherit any estate but one executed by an actual conveyance, and the time when he acquired a right .to the estate
should be thought material; then it will be contended that
he acquired such a iight, n6t at the time of bidding,' but
either on his paying the purchase money, or on the ratification of the sale; .both which events occurred after his naturalization.

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Spratt vs. Spratt.]

Mr Key and Mr Jones, for the appellant, argued; that
the naturalization of Thomas Spratt had been regular, according to the requirements of the act of congress.
'The law does not make the report made by the alien, and
the register of his arrival, the only evidence of the period
and fact of his arrival in the United States. Acts of congress,
22d of March 1816, July 30th, 1813. The court are to be
satisfied of the facts, and are not excluded from receiving
other evidence than the register. While it is admitted that
this is the best evidence, it does not follow that it is the only
evidence which can be received. The court are authorised to
act on such evidence as will enable them to 'decide on the
application for naturalization. One objection which is made
is, that the place of the residence of Thomas Spratt is not
stated in the proceedings. To this it is answered, that such
proceedings are not to be'examined critically. It would be
dangerous to the property of numbers, if eiceptions of this
character were encouraged. But no part of the law makes
the place of the residence of thealien material ; except that
.he shall have resided for one year preceding the application.
in the state W4here he shall apply to be naturalized.
The act of admission to citizenship by a court authorised'
to admit to naturalization, is of itself sufficient evidence of
citizenship, without looking behind it. It is a judicial act
of a court of competent jurisdiction, and upon which. it has
adjudicated. If, in the proceedings of the court4 in a matter necessarily judicial; in -which testimony has been adduced, upon- which it has passed a judgment; and of which
a record has been made by the p roper officers; there has
been any thing erroneous, the court should itself correct it:
but until this is done, it is binding on all the world. Cited
7 Co. 42:0. 2 Peters, 157. 5 Cranch, 174. But a fair and-full
examination of the different provisions of the laws relative
to naturalization, will show that the proceedings of the circuit court were entirely correct and legal.
The property in controversy, although purchased by
Thomas Spratt before his'naturalization, was not held by
deed; no conveyance having been made-to Him of the same
even up to the time of his death.

[Spratt vs. Spratt]

The right of a foreigner 'thus to take lands, depends on
the particular words of the statute; and the case must be one
within its provisions, or it will not operate, The terms of
it are in reference to lands within that part of the district of
Columbia which was ceded to the United States, held byaliens "under deed or will; hereafter to be made'.' Thus
the provisions are' limited to lands acquired or held by one
of thi5 description of titles.
The bid of Thomas Spratt acquired for him an equitable
interest in the property; and he became' a'trustee, not for his
foreign hbirs, but, for his wife, who by his subsequent fiatu-'
ralization, became a citizen. The law did not intend that
such an interest should go to his foreign heirs.
There is good reason why the law of Maryland should
confine the mode of taking *to an actual, executed, -legal title. Equitable interests in'land are sources of infinite
confusion. In Maryland, in .1793, they were not subject to
execution for debt; and have been "made so in 1810. Thus,
a foreigrier, under the construction claimed, would take an
equitable title to land, havfng all the benefits of it, and it
would not be subject to the claims of his creditors.
As to the liability to execution of equitable interests in
lands. Cited 3 Johns. C. I. 316. 1 Caines's Cases, 46. 1
Murph. Rep. 383. 18 Johns. 94. 4 Har. and M'Hen, 533.
5 Johns. 335.. 4 Johns. 41. 7 Johns. 206.
By the bid for the property no absolute title was acquired.
The whole proceedings of the trustee were subject to examination by the court, and required its confirmation. Thus, by
the case, until 1824%when the sale was finally ratified; the
title of the purchaser was not complete; and ihe deed, then
tobe executed according to the decree,-would not relate
back to the time of the sale.
Mr Coxe, for the defendant.
Whether James Spratt was actually naturalized depends
upon a proper construction of the act of April 14th, 1802.
It is contended, that the certificate is essentially defective
under the provisions of this law.

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Spratt vs. Spratt.]

1. It does not ascertain the place of his intended settlement.
2. It was not made five years anterior to the 11th of October 1821. The act requires every person being an alien,
who may arrive in the United S.taies subsequent to its passage, to report such his arrival.
This certificate is to be exhibited by such alien on his application to be naturalized, as evidence of the time of his
arrival within the United States. It is not required that the
certificate should set forth the period of his arrival ; but the
meaning of the act is, that the date of' such certificate shall
be considered as that of the-arrival.
The act of 1790 contained no provision for a previ6us
declaration of an intention to become a citizen. All that
was to be done, was to be done at the time of haturltlizatiop.
The act of 1795 required such. a declaration; it was to -be
made three years before he could be naturalized, and must
The 'act of 1798 reset forth a residence of five years.
years before the
five
made
be
to
declaration
this
quired
of fourteen
averment
an
make
should
he
that
and
admission,
of '1"02 is.
act
The
application.
his
before
residenice
years
applicable to those who were then within the United States,
and had taken the preliminary steps. This act has- been
much considered here, as well as elsewhere. In this district, after solemn argument, the point has been ruled in accordance with the present judgment of the court. Th circuit
court of Pennsylvhinia gave.the same constrtctinu to the law.
1 Peters's C. C. R. 457.
As to the argument, that the record'is conclusive as to the
right: It may be urged, that several of the acts of congress
expressly negative ihis ';if the pre-requisites of the statute are
not complied with, the certificate.is a nullity.
There is great danger in considering these certificates as
conclusive, from the number of courts who are authorised
under the law to issue them. - If those who are to'issue them
may omit any* one. of these requisite§, they rhay omit all.
Persons who have never been in the United States may
obtain them. Persons may procure them, immediately on.
their arrival here.
VOL. IV.--.3 A

SUPREME COURT.
[Spratt vs. Spratt.'

This is not a judicial act, but one purely ministerial. 3 T.
R. 126. Toiler, 128.
The powers to admit to the rights of citizenshiphave beer,
uniformly vested in, and exercised by state-courts, under the
authority of congress. But congress cannot vest any part of
the judicial power of the United States -in state tribunals.
1 Wheat. 304, 330. Martinvs. Hunter's Lessee, 5 Wheat. 27.
There are no parties. All is ex parte. No one can remove the proceedings by writ of error, certiorari, or in any
other inanner. No one can oppose the act of granting the
evidence of naturalization. If ministerial: the proceedings
.must, on the face of them, show that they were correct.
If the exercise of a judicial power: still it must appear
.tht the court -had jurisdiction; not only over the subject
matter, but over the party, in the circumstances in which he
stood.
This doctrine is fully laid down in Rose vs. Himely, 4
Cranch, 268,'and the case of Griffith vs. Frazier, 8 Cranch,
1, 22, 8. Walker vs. Turner, 9 Wheat. 541. Cited also,
I Paine, 55.
The next objection is, that the plaintiff carnot recover,
because this is a mere equitab le estate..
It cannot be questioned, but that- as well by the common
law as by 'the general statutes of descent of Maryland, equi-'
table estates descend precisely as do legal.
Is this equitable estate embraced within the sixth section
of the act of Maryland of December. 19, 1791. Burch's Dig.
2,21. It provides, "that any foreigner may, by deed or will,
hereafter to be made, -take and hold lands," .&c. The law
recognizes two modes of acquiring lands-descent and purchase. In general, the only modes of acquiring lands by
purchase; are by deed, or ,will. When an agreement, of
purchase is made, the party is considered in equity as the
owner, because he is in equity entitled to a deed. Whether
the deed be, or be not in fact executed, it is by and through
the-deed.that the estate is-his. A deed actually executed
under one la-w passes no title, unless recorded within the
time stipulated; but it confers upon the grantee a right to
come into chancery to have it recorded; which, when oh-

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Spratt -s. Spratt.]

tained, relates back, as between the parties, to the date of
the agreement. Mary. Laws, 1766, c. 14, sed.. 2; 1785, c.
72, sec. 12.
In equity, James Spratt was entitled to a deed from the
moment the sale was made, provided it was ratified. Equity
will consider that as done which ought to have been done.
Sugd. 40i 353. 13 Ves. 517. 2 Cox, 231
Mr Chief Justice MAnSHALL delivered the opinion'of
the court.
This case depends entirely on the title of the defendant
in error to the premises in the avowry mentioned, who. is
one of the brothers and heirs of James Spritt deceased.
James Spratt was a native of Ireland, who arrived in the
United States previous to the 18th of Jube 1812, and resided therein until his death. On the 14th of 'April in the
year 1817, he made report of himself to the clerk of the circuit court-of the United States f6r the district of Columbia,
in the county of Washington, which report was recorded;
and, on the 17th of May thereafter, he appeared in the same
court, and made the declaration on oath required by the first
condition of the first section of the act " to establish an
uniform rule ofnaturalization," &c. pa1ssd the 14th of April
1802; which proceeding was recorded, and a certificate
tnereof granted in the following words:'
"District of Columbia, to Wit: James Spratt, a native of
Ireland, aged about twenty-six years, bearing allegiance 'to
the king of Great Britain and Ireland, .who emigrated'from
]reland and arrived in the United States on the 1st of June
1812, and intends-to reside within the jurisdiction and under
the government of the United -States, makes report of himself for naturalization according to the acts of congress in
that case made -and provided, the 14th of April anno domini 1817, in the clerk's office of the circuit 'court of the
district of Columbia, for the county of Washington: and on
the 14th of May 1817, the said James Spratt personally appeared in open court, and declared on-oath, that it is his
intention to become a citizen of the United States, and to

404

SUPREME COURT.
[Spratt vs. Spratt.]

renounce.ali allegiance and fidelity to every foreign prince,"
&c.
This certificate was given under the hand and seal of the
clerk. On the 11th of October 1621, James Spratt .again
appeared inopdn court,-and took the oath required by law,
and was admitted as a citizen. The certificate of his admission states that the three first conditions required by the
act of the 14th of April 1802 had been complied with.
The'said James Spratt intermarried with the plaintiff in
error, Sarah Sprdtt, and. departed this life in March 1824,
without issue, and intestate. The plaintiff in replevin is a
native born subject of the king of Great Britain and Ireland,
and was not naturalized at the time of the institution of this
suit.
In the year. 1791, the state of Maryland passed an act entitled "an act concerning the territory of Columbia and the
city of Washingt~n;" the sixth section of which provides,
"that any foreigner may, by deed or Wifl, .to be hereafter
made, take and hold lands within that part of the said territory which lies within this state, in the same manner as if
he was a citizen of this state ; and the same lands may be
conveyed by him, and transmitted to, and be inherited-by
his heirs-or relations, as if he and they were citizens of this
state."
This act continues in force.
A decree was made by the circuit court fot the sale of the
estate of Simon Meade, deceased, to satisfy his creditors, on
certain conditions therein specified. In pursuance of this
decree, Joseph Forrest, who was appointed to carry the same
into execution, did, on the 21st of May 1821, offer the real
estate of the said Simon Meade for sale on the terms and conditions following, to wit : that the purchase money should be
paid in .four equal instalments, at six, twelve, eighteen, and
twenty-four months, respectively, from the day of sale, with
interest; and that a conveyance of the property in fee simple
should be made to the purchaser upon the ratification of the
sale by the court, and the payment of all the said instalments
of the purchase money,' with interest. At this sale the said

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Spratt vs. Spratt.]

James Spratt became the purchaser of the lot in the avowry
mentioned. On the 15th of October 1821 the said Joseph
Forrest made his report to the court; and on the 24th of December 1822, an interlocutor, decree was made for confirming the sale; and on the 26th of January 1824; the final
.decree of confirmation was passed. No deed was executed during the life time of the said James Spratt. The
bidding ar the sale was made while the said James Spratt
was an alien; but before any other step was taken he became a citizen.
Upon this state of facts, the circuit court gave judgment
for the plaihtiff in replevin ; which jidgment has been
brought before this court by writ of error.
This cause has been argued very elaborately by counsel.
It appears to the court to depend essentially on two questions..
1. Was James pratt a citizen of the United.States ?.
2. If he became a citizen, did the premises in the avowry
mentioned pass to his alien relations who are his pext of kin.
1. The first question depends on the act or 1802, for establishiog an uniform rule of naturalization. The act declares that an alien may be ad mitted to become a citizen of
the United. States "on the following conditions, and not
otherwise." The act then prescribes four conditions, the
three first of which were applicable to James Spratt, and
were literally observed.
The second section enacts, " that in addition to the directions aforesaid, all free white persons, being aliens, who may
arrive in the United States after the passing of this act, shall,
in order to become citizens of 'the United States, make registry and 6btain-certificates in the following manner, to ivit:
every person desirous of being naturalized, shall, if of the age
of twenty-one years, make 'report of himself, &c." The law
then dir~ets what the contents of the report shall be ; orders
it to be recorded, and that a certificate thereof shall be
granted to the person making ihe report: "which certificate
shall be exhibited to the court by every alien who may arrive in the United States after the passing of this act, on his

SUPREME COURT.
[Spratt vs. Spratt.]

application to be naturalized,-as evidence of the time of his
arrival within the United States."
As James Spratt arrived within the United States after
the passage of the act of 1802, he is embraced by the second
section of that act, and was under the necessity of reporting
himself to the clerk, as that section require.. Must this report be made five years before he' can be admitted as a citizen .
The law does not in 'terms require it. The third condition of the first secfion" provides, " that the court admitting
such alien shall be satisfied that he has resided within the
United States five years at least;" but does riot prescribe
the testimony which shall be satisfactory. This section was
in force when James Spratt was admitted to become a citizen, and was applicable to his case. But the second- section requires, in addition, that he hall report himself in'the
manner prescribed by that section ; and requires .that suich
report shall be exhibited, "on his application to be naturalized, as evidence of the time. of his arrival within the
United States." The law does not say that this report shall
be the sole evidence, nor does it require that the alien shall
report himself within any limited time after his arrival. Five
years may intervene between his arrivaI and report, and yet
the report will be valid. The report is undoubtedly con-elusive evidence of the arrival, and must be so received b'y
the court; but if the law intended to make it the only ad-'
missible evidence, and to exclude the proof which had been
held sufficient, that intention ought to have been expressed.
Yet. the inference is very strong from the language of the
act, that the time of arrival must be proved by this report;
and that a court, about to admit an alien to the rights of
citizenship, ought to require its production.
But is it any thing more than evidence which ought indeed to be required to satisfy the judgment of the court,
but the want of which cannot annul that judgment 9 The
judgment has been rendered in a form which is unexceptionable. Can we look behind it, and inquire on what testimony it was pronounced .

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Spratt vs. Spratt.]

The act does not require that the report shall be mentioned in the judgment of the court, or shall form a part- ofthe certificate of citizenship. The judgment and certificate
are valid, though they do not allude to it. This furnishes
reason for the opinion, that the act directed this report as
evidence for the court; but did not mean that the act of
admitting the alien to become a citizen should be subject to
revision at all times afterwards, and to be declared a nullity,
if the report of arrival should not have been made fiveyears
previous-to such admission.
The act of 1816, sec. 6, has, we think, considerable influence on this question. That, act requires that- the certificates of report and registry, required as evidence of the
time of arrival in the United States, and of the declaration
of intention to become a citizen, "shall be exhibited'by
.every alien, on his application to be admitted a citizen of the
United States, ivho shall have. arrived within the limits and.
under the jurisdiction of the'United States since the f8th
day of June 1812; and sliall each be recited at full length
in the record of the court admiating such alien; and any
pretended admission of an alien, who shall have arrived
within ihe limits and under the jurisdiction of the United
States since the said.lSth day of June 1812, to be a citizen,
ifter the promulgation of this act, without such recital of
each certificate at full length; shall be of no validity."
James Spratt arrived within the United States previous to
the 18th day of June 1812, and is consequiently not within
ihe provisions of the act of 1816.
This act is not intended to explain the 'ct'of 1802, but to
add to its provisions. It prescribes that which the previous
law did not require; and prescribes it for those aliens only
who arrive within the United States after the. 8th day of
June 1812. * It annuls the certificates -of citizefiship which
may be granted to such aliens, without the requisite recitals;
consequently,. without this act, such certificates would have
been valid . The law did not require the insertion of these'
recitals in the certificate of James Spratt.
The various acts upon the subject, submit the decision on
the right of aliens to admission as citizens to courts of re-

.SUPREME COURT.
[Spratt vs. Spratt.]

cord. They are to receive testimony, to compare it with
the law, and to judge on both law and fact. This judgment
is entered on record as the judgment of the court. It seems
to us, if it be in legal form, to close all inquiry; and, like
every other.judgment, to be complete evidence of its own
validity.
The inconvenience which might arise from this principle,
has been pressed upon the court. But the inconvenience
mighf be still greater, if the"opposite opinion be established.
It might be productive of great mischief, if, after the acquisition of property on the faith of his certificate, an individual
might be exposed to the disabilities of an alien, on account
of an error in the court,, not apparent on the record of his
admission. We are all of opinion, that James Spratt became a citizen of the United States on the Ilth of October
1821.
2. Did the property mentioned in the avowry descend to.
his alien relationsq
Since aliens are incapable of taking by descent, the answer to this question depends on the erabling act of -the
state of Maryland in the year 1791. That act does not
*enable" aliens who may come into the district of Columbia to
transmit all real estate, however acquired, to their alien relations by descent; but such lands only as shall be thereafter.
,acquired by deed or will. This is a.qualification of the
power, .which cannot be disregarded. The Words are not
senseless; and would not, we must suppose, have been inserted, had they not been intended to operate. They limit
the capacity of an alien to inherit from his alien ancestor
residiig within this district, to lands which he had taken by
deed o'r will. It is not for us to weigh the reasdns which
induced the legislature to impose this lixnitatiori. It.'is
enough for a court of justice to' know thai'the legislature
has imposed it, and that it forms part of the 'law of the case.
If any equivalent act might be'substituted for a deed, no
such equivalent act can be found iri
this 'case. The auction
at which this property was sold certainly took place *while
Jlames Spratt -was an alien ; but that the sale was entirely
conditional, andthe purchase depended on the payment Pf

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Spratt vs. Spratt.]

the instalments, on the- confirmation of the court, and the
final decree of the court. Before the. first instalment became due, before even the report was returned to the court,
Jaipes Spratt became a citizen. He did not, therefore, while
an alien, hold this land by a deed or by any title equivalent
to a deed.
In*a coritroversy between- the alien heirs of James Spratt
and Sarah Spratt, 1 Peiers, 343, this court determined that
land which James Spratt took and held under the enabling
act of Maryland, descended to his alien heirs, but, that land
which he took and held as a citizen, did not pass to those heirs.
The lot mentioned in the avowry comes, we think, within
the last description ; and did not descent to the plaintiff in
replevin.
The judgment of the circuit court is reversed, and the
cause remanded, with directions to enter judgment for the
avowant.
Thig cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the circuit court of the -United States for the
district of Columbia, holden in and for the county of Washington, and was argued by counsel ; on consideration whereof, it is ordered and adjudged by this court that the judgment of the said circuit court in this cause be,.and the-same
is hereby reversed, and that this cause be, and the same is
hereby remanded to the said circuit court with instructions
to enter judgment in the said court for the ayowant in said
cause.

VOL- IV.-3 B

