JANUARY TERM 183 0.

"5omi LLOYD, PLAnnm TiP I ERROR V8. CHARLs ScOTT, BAnm'
WnLuIx S MOOxiE, DFY=DAiT.

205

OF

S. being seised in fee of four brick teqemeilts pnd lots of grouhd in Alexandrla,
in consideration of five thousand dollars, .iranted to M. an annuity or yearly
rent charge of five hundred dollars, to be issuing out of and charged upon the
houses and ground, and covenanted that the 'same should be. paid to M.,.hip.
heirs and assigns for ever thereafter, with the right to distrain in case.of n6npayment of the same. In the deed granting the rent c4arge, M. the-gratitee,
covenanted, that at any time after five years, on the payment of-five thou--.
sand dollars with all arrears of rent, he, M:, would release the said rent charge,
and the same should cease. S. covenanted to keep the buildings in repair,
and that he would have them fully insured against fire, and assign the policy
ofinsurance for the protection of M., the ioney from thwb'saanceto be applied to the rebuilding or repairing the houses, if'destroyed oi injured byfire.
Afterwards, S. by- deed of bargain and sale, conveyed to L., the plaintiff ilt
error, thp houses and lots of ground subject to the payment of the rent to M,
who since the same conveyance has been seised of the same. The rent being
unpaid, M. levied a distress for the same, and L. broughrreplevn ;'and the ae.
fence to the claim for rent set up to the. avowry' was, that the transactiod-was
usurious, and the deed granting the reb t charge was, by the laws of Virginia,
absolutely void.
The dtatuteof Virginia, of 1793, provides that no pergoqhall take, directly or
indirectly, more than six-per cent per annum on loans or money or for fmbearance for one year; and it declares that all bonds and other instruments br a:
greater amount of interest shall be utterly void. [223]
The requisites to form an usurious transaction are, 1. A loan either express or
- lrplied. 2. An understanding that the money'lent shall. or may be returned.
3. That a greater rate of interest than is allowed by the statute sh ll be paid.
The intent with which the act is done, is an important ingrddient to constitute
this'offence. [224]
An ignorance of the law'will not protect a party from 'the penalties of usury,
where it is committed; but where -there was no intention to evade the law,
and the facts which amount to usury, whether. they appear upon the 'face of
the contfact or by other proof, can be shown to have been the result of mistake or ancient, no penalty attaches. [224]
The act'of usury has long since lost that..deep moral stain which was formerly
attached to it; and is now generally considered only as an illegal or immoral
act, b ecause it is prohibited by law. [224L]
If the court were in this case limited by the pleas to the words of the contract,
and it purported to be a purchase of an annuity, and no evidence were adduced
giving a different character to the transaction ; the argument, that though the
annuity may produce a higher rate of interest than six per cent upon the con*be unanswerable.
sideration paid for it, as it was a purchase, it was legar,
and the
An annuity-may be purchased like a tract of land or other prop

206

PREME COURT.

[Lloyd ft. Scott.]
ineguality of price will-not ofitself make the contract usurious. If the inadequqcy of consideration be great in any purchase, it may lead to suspicion; and
-connected with.other circumstances, may-induce a court of chancery to rilieve
against the'contract. [225]
In this case five thousand dollars were paid for a groun rent of-five hundred
dollars per annm. This circumstance, although ten per cent be received on
the money paid, does n6t make the contract unlawful. If it were a bona fide
purchase of an annuity, there is an end of the question ; and the condition
which gives the.option to the.vendor to repurchase the rent, by paying the five
thousand dollars after-the lapse of five years, would not invalidate the contract.
The ilght to repurchase, as also the inadequacy of price, would be elrcumstances for the consideration of a jury. [225]
The'purchaseof an annuity, or any other device, used to cover an usurious trans.
-action, will be unavailing. If the contract be infected with usury, it cannot be
* enforced. [226].
If a party agree to pay a specific sum, exceeding the lawful interest, provided he
do not pay-the principal by a day certain; it i$ not usury.- By a punctual payment of the principa, he may ivoid the paymertt of the sum stated, which is
considered as a penalty. Wh6re a loan is'made, to be retumed at a fixed day,
with more than the legil rate of interest, 'depending on a casualty, which ha.
zardsboth principal and.interest, the contract is not usurious; but where the
-interest-only is hazarded, it is usury. £226]
All the'material facts to constitute usury are found in the second plea. It states
a corrupt agreement to loan the money at a higher rate or interest than the law
allows. That the money was advanced, and thecontraet executed in pursuance
of such agreement. -That on thereturnof the principal with the-.ull payment
of the rent, after the lapse of five years, the annuity 'was to be released. The
amount agreed to be paid above the legal interest for the forbearance, is not
expressly averred, but the facts are so stitedin the plea as to show the amount
with certainty. Five hundred dollars, undeir over of the annuity, were to be
paid annually for the forbearance of the five thousand Aollars; making an anL
nual interest of tin per cent.' Do not these facts, uncontradicted as they are,
amount to usury? Is it not evident from this statement of the case, that the
anpulty was created as a means for paying the intprest until -the principal
should be returned, -and as a disguise for the transaction. Such is the legiti
-mate inferefice which arises from the facts stated in thle plea. [227]
The principle seems:to be settled,.that usurious securities are not ohly'void, as
'etWen the 'riginal parties, but -the-illegality of their inception affects -them
.even in the hands of third .persons, who are entire strangbrs to the, transac.
tions. A stranger must "take heed lo his assurance at hii peril;" and cannot
insist on his ignorance of the corrupt contract, in support of his cfaim to recover upon i-security which originated in usuryi [228]
In .the case of D'Wolfe vs. Johnson, 1 -Wheat. 367, the first mortgage being
executed in Rhode Island-in 1815, was not usurious by the'laws of that state;
and the second mortgage executed in Kentucky, in 1817, being a new coo.fratt-, viv'not tainted vith usury. The question-,'therefore,.whether the lurchaser of an equity of redemption can show usury inthe mortease to defeat a
forenlosure,-was not involved in that case.. [229]Tie aw of Virginia having declaied that a coutfact infectedl by usury is void, and
by the deed from S. to M.,a. right to enter on-the premises and distrali for the

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Lloyd vs. Scott.]
rent -is claimed under a deed, which, upon the admissions in the pleadings, is usurious; the premises upon which the'distress was made, being
held by L, under a conveyance from S.; L. may set up the dbfence of usury
in the deed. against the summary remedy asserted .by M. under the deed.
[280]
This case came before the court on a judgment in the circuit court, for the defendant, the avowant in replevin, he having demurred to the pleas of the plaintiff
in-an action of replevin. The court having reversed the judgmen't.of the circuit court, remanded the cause, with instructions -to the circuit court to
overrule the demurrer, and permit the defendant, the avowant, to plead. [231]

THIS was an action of replevin'brought by the plaintiff
to
replevy certain goods and chattels which the defendant,
Ias bailiff
of William S. Moore, had taken upon b: distress
for
rent claimed by the said Moore to be due upon certain
houses and lots in Alexandria, owned and held by the plaintiff. The sum for which distress was made is five hundred
dollars. The declaration is in 'the usual form; and the dna
rages claimed one thousand dollars.
The defendant filed his cognizance, in which' he acknowledges the taking of the goods, &c. in the declaration meitioned, and states that a, certain Jonathan Scholfield was
seised in fee of four brick tenements and a lot of ground in
the town of Alexandria, and being so seised, he by his indenture, dated the I lth of June 1814, of which deed profert
is made, in consideration of five'thousand dollars, by the said
William S. Moore paid to him the said Jonathan Scholfield, he granted, bargained and sold to him, the said William S. Moore, one certain annuity or yearly' rent of five
hundred dollars, to be issuing out of and charged Upon thie
said four brick tenements and lot of ground, to be paid to
the said William S. Moore, his heirs and assigqs, by equal
half yearly payments of two hundred and fifty dollars each,
on the tenth of December and on.the tenth of June in each
year for ever thereafter. To -have and to hold the said annuity or rent charged- and payable as aforesaid,' to the said
William S. Moore, his heirs and assigns, to his and their
only proper use for ever. It also states that the said Jonathan Scholfield, for himself, his heirs and assigns, did, by the
said indenture, among other things, covenant with the said
William S. Moore, his heirs and'assigns, that he, the said

208

SUPREME COURT.
[Lloyd vs. Scbtt]

Sciolfield, his heirs and assigns, would 'well. and truly pay
and satisfy to him,.the said Moore, his heir*s and assigns, the.
said annual rent of five hundred dollars by equal half yearly.
payments for ever: and if the rent should not be paid as it
became due, that on every default it should be lawful for
he said Moore, his heirs and, assigns, to make distress for it.
That the said William S. Moore "was seised' of the said rent
on.the said !IIth of December 1814, and has since remained
seised thereof.
The cognizance further states, that on the 29th of October 1816, the said Jonathan Scholfield, by his deed of bargain and sale, conveyed to the said John, Lloyd the plaintiff,
forever, c6rtain -nements: and lots of grpund. in the -said
town of'Alexandi a, whereof the -said four brick tenements
and lot of ground'bfore mentioned, on which the said dis-tress was made, was. parcel; sub ect,'by the terms of the said
deeds, to the payment of the said annuity or rent .of five
hundred dollars.to the said William S. Moore, hig. heirs and
assigns. That the said 'John Lloyd has .,been ever since
seised and possessed of the same ; and that on the 10th of
June 1824, two hundred and fifty dollars, a part of the said
rent was 'due, and on the 10th of December 1824, two hurdred and fifty dollars, -the balance of the said 'annual rent,
was due and'unpaid to the said William'S. Moore, for which*
said-sum of five hundred dollars, the said defendant, as bailiff.
aforesaid, levied a distress. It concludes by praying 'judgment for one thousand dollars, being double the rent in arrear and distrained for.
. "By the deed' from 'Scholfield to Moore, he, Moore, for
himself and his heirs and assigns, covenants with Scholfield,
his heirs and assigns, that if he, the said Scholfield, his heirs
or assigns " shall at any any time after the expiration of five
years from the date of the deed, pay to the said Moore, his
heirs or assighs, the sum of five thousand dollars, together
with all arrears of rent and a rateable dividend of the rent
for the time which shall have elapsed between the half year'
day thei next preceding -and the day on which, such payment shall 4e 'made, he, the said Moore, his heirs and assigns,
will execute and deliver any deeds or instruments which may

JANUNRY TERM 1830.
[Llbyd vs. Scott.]

be necessary for releasing and extinguishing the rent or
annvity 'hereby created, which; on -such pa.yments being
made, shall for ever after cease to be payable "
By the same deed Jonathan Scholfield covenants that he
was then in his own right seised in fee simple of the .premises
charged as aforesaid, free from any condition or incumubrance
-other than "which" is. specified and provided for in a .4eed
from him,, Scholfield, to Robert I. Taylor, dated .the day.
before the date of the deed to Moore.
The said Scholfield further covenants for.himself, his heirs
and assigns, that he "will for ever hereafter keep the buildings which now. are, or hereafter may be erected on the.
premises charged, fully insured against fire insome incorporated insurance office, and will assign the policies of insurance.to such trustee as the said Moore, his [ieirs or assigns
may appoint, to the intent that if any damage or destruetibn from fire shall happen, the moneys received on such
policies may be applied to rebuilding or repairing the buildings destroyed or damagpd." There is also a covenant on
the part of Scholfield, for a further. conveyance to carry into
effect the intention of the parties; and also a warranty on
his part, to warrant and defend the said annuity or rent, to
the said Moore, -his heirs or assigns, against any defalektions
o"deductions for or on account of him'the said Scholfield,
his heirs or assigns.
To thi8 cognizance, the plaintiff; after praying oyer of the
ihdenture from Scholfield to Moore, demurred specially; and
assigned the following causes :
1.Because the deed of indenture fromnJonathan Scholfield and- Eleanor his wife to William S. Moore,. in the said
cognizance mentioned, shows upon the face.of it a corrupt
and usurious contract between Jonathan Scholfield and Williarm S. Moore, altogether void in law, and entirely incompetent to justify the taking of- the said goods and chattels
in the plaintiff's declaration mentioned.
2. Because the.essential parts of the indenture .are not set
forth in the cognizance.
3. Because the indenture is variant, and different from that
alleged in the cognizance.
VOL. IV.-2 B

SUPREME COURT.
tLloyd vs. Scott.J

4. Because the whole cognizance is-void and insufficient
in: law to justify the.takihg of the goods and chattelr in the
declaration mentioned.
At the same. time the plaintiff filed four pleas. In each
of which pleas he craves oy-er of the deed 6f indenture in
the cognizance mentioned, which was granted to him.
The first-plea, states, that before the braking of the-indenture, that ib to say, on the 11th of June 1814, itwase orruptly agxeed between Scbolfidld and Moore, that he, Moore,
stould- "advance" to Scholfield, .the sum of five thousand
dollars, dnd in consideration thereof, that Scholfield" and
his wife should grant,. by -a -deedof indenture, duly executedahd delivered to Moore, his hirs and assigns fdr ever, a certain annuity or yearly' rent of fi've hundred dollars, to be
issuing out of and 'charged-upon a lot of ground, and four
trick tenements and appurtenances thereon, which lot is
particularly described in the said plea, and stated tobe in
the town. of Alexandria: which annuity oir-rent of fie hundred- dollars .was to be paid to -Moore, his heirs and assigns,
by equal half. yearly payments of. two hundred and fifty
dolhrrs, oil the 1.0th of December and on the 10th of June
for ever thereafter. It was further corruptly agreed, that hei
Seholfield, in and by the' deed,- should bind himself, his
heirs, executors, administrators and assigns to Moore, hisheirs and assigns, that Scholfield would well and truly pay
to him,'Moorei his'heirs and assigns, the'said rent or annuity.
five- hundred dollars, by equal half yearly payments, on
the 10th of Jurre.and the 10th. of December in each year
for ever thereafter,. as it became due. It further states, if
the same should -notbe paid as it became due, the right of
distress-for It is resetved to Moore, his heirs- and assigns.
The plea also states, if sufficient -property could not be
found on.the premises to make the said rent or annuity, after
-the expiration of thirty days from the time the same became
due, it should be lawful for Moore to enter on the premises,
andto rem'ove Scholfield, his- heirs and assigns, and for him,
Moore, his heirs or assigns, to possess and hold the same as
his or their property.
The plea further states, that it-was corruptly agreed be-of

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[L1oyd vs. Scott.]

tween Scholfield and Moore, that he, Scholfield, should
further covenant in the said indenture, that he, Scolfield,
was seised at the time of making the deed in-his own right,
in fee simple in the premises, free from any condition or
incumbrance other than such as was specified in a deed
from him to Robert I. Taylor; and that be would thereafter
keep the buildings fully insured in some incorporated insurance office, and as'sign the policies to such trustee as Moore,
his heirs or assigns should appoint; and that he would make
any other deed for a further assurance of the 'title to the
premises ; and that he-would warrant and defend the title ofMoore to tfie- rent or annuity. It is also stated in said pleathat Moore did further corruptly agree, that-he"would, in the
indenture, covenant for himself, his- heirs or assigns, with
Scholfield, his heirs and assigns, that if he, Scholfield, his
heirs or assigns, should at any time thereafter, at the expiration of five years from the .date of the indenture, 'pay to
Moore, his heirs or assigns, the sum' of five thousand dollars, together wiith all arrears of'rent, and a rateable dividend
of the rent for the time which should have elapsed between
the half year's day then next preceding, and the day. on which
cli payment should be made, he, Moore,: his heirs and
assigns, would execute and deliver any deeds or instruments
which might be necessary for releasing and extinguishing
the rent or annuity.
The plea then avers, that on the I1th -of June 1814, ia
pursuance and in prosecution of this corrupt agreement,
William S. Moore did advance to Jonathan Scholfield, the
sum of.five thousand'-dollars, and' that Scholfield and his
wife, and William S. Moore did make, seal and duly deliver to each other respectively the said-deed as their act and
deed, which was duly acknowledged and recorded ; ihai the
deed was made in consideration of money advainced upon
andcl for usury ; and that there has been reserved and 'taken
ab6ve the rate of six dollars in the hundred, for the forbearance of.the sum of five thousand dollars, so advanced as
aforesaid, for the term, of one year. The plea .concludes
with a verification, and prays judgment fordamages for the
.unjust taking and detention 9fthe goods, &c.-

SUPREME COURT.,
'Libyd vs. Scott.1

The second plea isin, all respects like the first,:-except it
states'that the agreement was, that Moore should " lebd" to
Scholfield five thousand dollars. It then states that'thie par-,
ti'es agreed a deed should be made containing all The cove-.
nants set forth in. the first plea. It then avers that in pursuance and in prosecution' of this corrupt agteement, Moorl
did advance to Scholfield, the sum of five thousand'°dollars; and that Scholfield and wife, and Moore, niade and
executed the deed aforesaid, in pursuance of this corrupt
agreement, which was duly acknowledged and admitted to
record. And that the deed was made in-consideration of,; money lent upon and for-usury :" and -that.by it there has been
reserved and taken above the rate of six dollars -in:the hundred, for the'forbearance of the sum of five thousand dollars
so 'lent as afoesaid,,for.the term of one year. This *pledconeludes as the first does.
The third plea is more general than the first and second.
It states, that before the. making of the indenture, that is to
say, on the 11th of June 1814,-it was corrultly agreed between .Scholfield and"Moore, that he, Moore, should "advance" to' him,-6holfield, the sum of five thousand dollars,
upon the terms and conditions, and in consideration of the
covenants and agreements in the indenture mentioned and
contained; and that in pursuance. of this corrtpt agreement,
and in the prosecution and fulfilment of the same, Moore did
advance to Scholfield the sum of five thousand dollars, zihd
they, Scholfield and.Moore, did make, seal, and duly deliver
the deed to each party respectively, as their act pand deed.
And that the deed was in consideration of .monby'advanced
upon and for usury, and that by the indenture there has
been taken and reserved above the rate of six dollars in one
hundred, for the forbearance of the sum of five thousand
dollars, so advanced as aforesaid for the term of one year.
This plea concludes as the first does.
The fourth plea is like the ihird,'except it is-stated tfiat
the agreement was to "-lend" five thousandl dollars upon the
same terms stated in the third plea. It -then avers, that in
pursuance and in execution of the corrupt agreement in the
indenturementioned, Moore did "lend" to. Scholfield the

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Lloyd vs. Scott.]

sum of five. thousand-dollars ; that the deed was duly executed
by the parties and recorded; that it was made in consideration ofboney lent'uponejnd f6r usury, and 'that by the said
deed there has been reserved and taken above the rate'of six
dollars in the hundred for the.forbea-rance of the sum of five,
thousand dollars,.so lent as aforesaid, for the term of one year.
This plea -concludes a's
the others do.
To each of these- pleag the defendant demurred specially,
and assigned' for causes:
1. That the said pleas do not set.forth with -any reasonable certainty the pretended contract which is alleged t6 have
been usurious, and-do not show an usurious contract.
.2.That they do not state the time for which the said pretended loan was made.
o 3. That they do not state the 'amount of interest feserved
or intended to be reserved on the said -pretended contract.
-4. That they do nQt set forth any lo~n or foibearane 'of
any debt.
5: That they neither admit nor deny the sale and conveyance 'of the premises charged with the said annuity or rent,
to have been made by Jonathan Scholfield" to the plaintiff.
UpQn the demurrer to the cognizance,- and on the 'demurrer.to the pleas, the circuit court rendered judgment for thedefendant for one thousand dollars, the double rent claimed
in the cognizance, and costs.
The plaintiff suedout this writ of error, and before this
court assigned for ,error,
1. That the deed which forms -apart of the cognizance
is on its face usurious.
2. That the pleas set forth, with sufficient certainty, a
spurious contract.
The case was argued by Mr E. J. Lee and Mr Swann, for
the plaintiff'in error; and by'Mr Jones and Mr Taylor,'fot' the
defendant.
For the plaintiff, it was contended;" that the deed of
Schlolfield to Moore, of the 11th of June 1814, was a contract to pay five hundred dollars 'per annum, ,for five years,
for the use of five thousand dollars, which is equal to ten

214

SUPREME COURT.
[Lloyd vs. Scott.]

per cent per annum. The object of this device was to
evade the statute againstusury. The deed does not set
forth the purchase of an annuity; b it Scholfield being seised
of. the property in fee, receives five thousand dollars from
Moore as a loan, and then grants to Moore a rent of five
hundred dollars per annum, for the use of the money. The
stipulations in the deed are to pay the rent half yearly,
for five yeats ; not to redeem the property by paying the
five thousand dollars; and after that time, on his continuing
to pay the five hundred dollars, the property is to remain
charged with the same.. The deed gives a right of distress
and entry on the premises, and stipulates that the- property
shall be kept in repair, and the buildings insured at the expense of Scholfield and his assigns. If any of the houses
shall be destroyed by fire, they are to be rebuilt, and there
is a covenant for the payment of the -rent against any defalcations or deductions by Scholfield. The whole sum payable by Scholfield in five years for interest, insurance, taxes
and repairs, including the five thousand dollars, would
amount to eight thousand seven hundred and fifty dollars;
a large excess beyond legal interest.
There must have been great distress to induce such a contract; and upon its face it exhibits all the features of usury;
although there is no stipulation which plainly'expresses the
contract to. be one of mere loan, with a compensation for
forbearance beyond what is-lawful.
It is not necessary that.it should ppear on the face of the
deed that it was a loan or forbearance. If this is the result,
it will authorise the application of the statute.
To show that the transaction on the face of the deed,
though it assumes. the form of a ground rent, is a usurious
contract, cited,. 1 Inst. book 3, see. 534. 5 Co. Rep. 69,
Lawley vs. Hooper, 3 Atk. 278. Flayer vs. Sir Brownlaw
Sherard, Ambler, 19. 3 Barn. & Ald. 664. 4 Camp. Rep.
1. Powel vs.. Waters, 17 Johns. Rep. 176. 5 Randolph's
Rep. 347. Barnard -vs. Young, 17 Ves. 44.
The preceding cases show, that where there is a covenant
either on the part of him who advances the money to accept of repayment, or of the borrower to repay it; or where

.TANUARY TERM -1830
[Lloyd vs. Scott.]

the right to repay t he money is reserved by the contract-;
that the money was advanced as a loan, and a contract eritered into for its repayment, it is usurious.
But-if it is urged, that this is a contract for the sale of a
-rent charge: the answer is, that at the time the contract was
made no rent existed. It is an original grant of an anriual
rent to be issuing out of, and to be chArged on certain
•house's.
Technically, an annuity is not a ground rent. .2 Blac.
Corn. 41, 46l. -Co. Lit. 144.
Is the usury properly pleaded '1
It is said that-the contract is not set forth with reasonable
certainty in the pleas. But the pleas'bring out the whole
deed in which the contract is shown; and thus'the defendant
isfully informed what that contract is, upon which the allegation of usury arises.
An indenture set out upon oyer, becomesr part of the plea.
1 Chitty, 664. By becoming a part of the plea, they set out
the contract, and by so doing th'e defendant is informed of
what 'he is to answer.
It is admitted, that in a plea of usury, it is necessary to
set -out the facts with such certaintyf as that they can be understood by the party to answer them, by the jury wio are
to ascertain them, and by the court who are to give'judgment upon them. I Chitty's Plead. 236, 237. All these objects are fully obtained by the pleas filed in this case.
The second objection is, that tie pleas do not show a usurious contraict. It is submitted to the court that the deed
does show that 'five thousand-dollars were paid, not for an
existing &round rent, but that Sch6lfield was to pay for five
years certain, five hundred dollars per annum, for the use of
that sum. The facts, as has been alleged, showthis intention,.
and the desire of the parties to conceal'it, and give it the
appearance of the purchase, of an annuity or rent charge.
If the document produced by the plaintiff as his cause of
action, exhibits-such facts as would if pleaded show a loan;then the defendant need not prove that the money advanced
to him was a loan, nor need he prove by other evidence
than the deed that the loan was mentioned by -the lender

SUPREME COURT.
[Lloyd vs. Scott.]

before the. making of the contract, in the form. in which it
was executed. Usury is a question of law; andif all the
facts which go to show the intent of'the parties, appear by
the showing of the' plaintiff, by a special verdict or otherwise, it is sufficient. It is not. necessary to state in the
pleadings, or that the jury should find them, that there was
-a corrupt agreement. It is sufficient if fadts, appear, which
in law amount to~usury. Roberts vs. Tremayne; Cro. James,
508. 1 Call, 62. Price vs. Campbell, 2 Call, 119. The
intention of the parties is a legal inference from established
facts. 5"Randolph, 145, 146 to 162. Whitworth-vs, Adams,
5 Rand. 352, 560. 4 Mun 66.'6' Cranch, 652.
- The facts set forth by the deed, which forms a part of the
pleas, according to the cases cited, show an usurious contract. The first plea states an advance 9f 'five thousand"dollars for five hundred-to be paid annually. Scholfield could
not release himself from the payment of the'sum for five.
years. The plea states that this advaned was made, and the
deed, executed in pursuance of this coi.pt agreement, and
that the five thousand dollars :were advanced' upon-and.for
usury, and that there had been thus reserved and taken by
Moore above the rate of six per cent fori forbearqnce of five
thousand dollars for toe term of one year, All this is ad-

'mitted by the demurrer.
- The second plea states this as lent. -The thitd plea states
the sum to have been'advawed upon the,. agreement stated.
in the first plea; and the fourth is general, 'and states the
sum, as ent. -The demurrer, admits the money to have bden
lent and advan.ed as stated, in the pleas.
The second 'objection to the pleas is, that they do. ndt state
the time.for'which the loan was made. This is immaterial;
as the pleas, state that five hundred'dollrs are to be paid
.each year for the forbearance of five thousand .dollars..
The plea expressly states' that aboie the rate of 'six per.
cent in the hundred dollars, for the forbearance of five thousand dollars, is*reserved; and by making the deed a part of
it, does state the forbearance to be for fiv years certain,anfd
,as long after as Scholfield pleased, or as his inability to return
the money continued., The answer to the third objection is

JANUARY TERM 1830.

217

[Lloyd vs. Scott.]

of the same character; the deed shows the amount of interest
reserved, and to be paid. It is expressly stated. to be more
than legal interest- Td this point see 3 Term Rep. 533. 4
TermRep. 353. 6 Rand; 661.
But in this case the party to the contract is not before the
court, and ho is not bound to s6t forth the usurious contract,
as those are who were the immediate -parties to it. 'Hill vs.
Montague, 2 Maule & Selw. 377.
The plaintiff in the rellevin is not m-party to this usurious
contract. The defendant claims to make him-liable to pay
five hundred dollars, by distraining his goods and chattels
found on-the premises charged by the contract between him
and Scholfield ; he is therefore a stranger to the particulars
of the agreement, and he puts in the plea of usury, Less certainty is required when the law presumes that the knowledge
,of the facts is particularly in the opposite party. 1 Chitty,
Plead. 258. 13 East's lep. 112. Coin. Dig. Plead. c. 626.
The fourth objection is,, that no loan or forbearance is set
forth in the pleas. Itis trde the term loan is not used; but
it is said the money was advanced,and that he was to receive
five: hundred dollars as a gfound rent annually- for five years
for the ad ;ance ; and that it was lent, and that Moore did lend
five:thousand dollars to Scholfield) for which he-was to pay
him five hundred dollars per year. 'The pleas all state that
for the forbearance of the sum of five thousand dollars 4o advanced and ledt, above the rate of six dollars in the hundfed
for one year was reserved and taken.
The fifth objection is, that the pleas neither admit nor
deny the sale by Scholfiefll to the plaintiff of the premises
charged with the rent.
This is not material. If it was admitted that the sale was
made by Scholfield to Lloyd charged with the annuity or
ground rent claimed.by the avowant, under a contract which.
in law is usurious and therefore void; the plaintiff could not
be compel'ed to pay, in the form of a rent, the usurious interest reserved by this contract.
The cause of demurrer was probably suggested by the
case of D'Wolf.vs. Johnson and others, 10 Wheat. 367. It
is contended, that the principles 'involved and decided in
VOL. IV.-2 C

SUPREME COURT.
[Lloyd vs. Scott,]

that case do nbt apply to the case now before the court.
The decision in that case rested mainly on the fact that the
contract originally made was iot"usurimis by the law of
Rhod, Island. !The case before the court is one, where the
defendailt seeks in the form of a uistress for renl. to make
the personal property of the plaintiff liable under a contract
which is usurious and void at law; and the question is, whe'ther the defendant can avail himself or such a contract 1.
A party, in whose favour a contract which is usurious bas'
been made, cannot make use of it for any purpose whatever.
Barnard vs. Young, 17 Ves. 44. 1 Starkies's Rep. 385.
Comy, on Usury, 175. Whitworth vs. Adams, 5 Rand.
356. Harrison vs. Hammill, 5 Taunt. 780. Gaither vs.
The Farmer's Bank of Georgetowi, 1 Peters's Rep. 37.
Jackson vs. Henry, 10 Johns. 195.
Mr Taylor and Mr Jones, for the defendants'in error.The pleas do not'any wherd charge a loan to have been
made on. an usurious contract: it-is only stated, "and.so the
money was loaned upon usury." The charge of usury is a
mere deduction from facts. The pleas state no collateral
agreement as to a loan, and the whole of the contract is that
which is contained in the deed. The deed in itself contains.
'no contract which is usurious. It is a contract to pay the
sum of five hundred dollais per annum, in half -yearly payments, for five years certain ; and after that time, the -payment
of five thousand dollars will be an extinguishment of the
obligation, and a restoration of the property which is 'given
to secure the -ayment.
It is one thing to decide upon this
contract as contained in the deeds,
other to decide
on a collateral statement of usury.
The first question is, whether Lloyd can avail himself of
this usury, if it existed q
He is bound by a contract with his vendor Scholfield ; he
is bound to pay this annuity to Moore, and it is.important
to Scholfield that he shall do so; as he, Scholfield, is under
a -personal contract to pay the same.

A deed is not void for usury ; it is only voidable; as all
deeds which take effect from delivery are not -void; and

JANUARY TERM 1830.

219

[Lloyd vs. Scott.]

3 Burr. 1804. Bull. Nisi
Prius. 224. 5 Co. 119.
As this contract is only voidable, who can avoid it can
any one do it q Certainly not a stranger.
By a reference to-.the tisury act, of Virginia, which is very
full, its whole object will he seen to be to proiect the parmust be maue so by-pleading.

ties to the contract. The spirit and'objects of it do not extend to other parties. By the third and fourth sections, the
relief in equity is confined to the borrower. He may g.o
into chancery, and recover the money lent, and the interest;.
but if Lloyd recovers in this case, if he escapes the payment
of the rent, Scholfield will lose the money given tb him; he
cannot afterwards recover from Moore.
. Lloyd is not here a stranger; but he was acquainted with
the facts and is bound to pay the rent. He cannot set up a
plea of usury, which injures his vendor. He is estopped
by his purchase from so doing.
The law of usury is different in cases of personal and-real
property. The assignee of an. equity of redemption cannot
plead usury in the mortgage; and a purchaser under a mortgage is not affected by usury in the prigin of the contract.
10 Wheat.'367- 10 Johns'. Rep. 185. A mortgage upon
an usurious consideration-is void only against the mortgagor,
and those who may lawfully hold the estate under him. A
purchaser of the mere equity of redemption, cannot avoid
the mortgage by plea orproof of usury. 13 Mass. Rep. 515.
Is it competent for an intruder to set up a title q or for a
tenant at will to contradict the title of his landlord . A
tenant in possession cannot-set up usury against the title of
,his landlord. Idiocy and lunacy may be avoided by the
parties, but not by strangers; and these rules will fully aipply to other deeds. 8 Term Rep. 390. 4 Co. 123. 8 Co.
42. Co. Lit. 271 (a).
This transaction does not constitute a usurious contract.
To such a contract the obligation to repay tho money is
essential. Ord on Usury, 23. If the money may be returned or not, at pleasure, is it sucn a,loan; and there must be
a loan to make -it usury. An option to return makes the

SUPREME COURT.
ILloyd vs. Scott.]

transaction a purchase. These questions are exclusively
proper for a jury, and the court cannot decide them.
This mode of investment is common in Alexandria. The
purchase of a ground rent or rent charge is a usual mode of
providing for families and children; and the usual price of
such rents is ten years purchase.
The pleas are bad in form and substance. 1. In pleading the statute; a general plea is bad. The agreement and
sum taken must be charged and show;n. The contract must
be specially set out; and the usurious intention yith which
it was niade must be set out. Forbearance, and giving day,
are the effectiye words of the statute; and they must be.
averred. 1 Hawkins's P. C. 332, s. 24. Shower, 329. 2
Maule & Selwyn, 377. 1 Saunders, 295. Stephens on
Pleading, 343.
The pleas do not show a-usurious agreement. They do
not aver one collateral to the deed, but'set out the deed in
its terms. They call it usury. And the effect of the demurrer is not to assist the plaintiff. A demurrer admits factswell pleaded, not epithets or names or illegitimate conclusions. If the facts do not make out usury, no usurious intent can alter the legal character of the deed. Burton's
Case, 5 C6:. Rep. 69, was the grant ofan annuity; the plea
sets out the facts, and charges them to be usurious. On
demurrer, the court said that the matter . hwn..does not
amount to usury; the allegatiori that it is so, is repugnant to
the matter shown, and a demurrer is not an admission of all
the matters pleaded, but of such only as.are well pleaded.
The question then is, is 'the- deed, per se, usurious; not
whethef it is eviddnce of another collateral contract. What
is its legal import .1 Does it import a loan 1' It says it is
a purchase. Does it mean- any thing else than the purchase
of a redeemable annuity ..It does not. The right to.redeem after five years is secured by the deed. It has beerepeatedly decided, that the purchase of an annuity, at howdver extravagant a price, is not usury. .Wilson;295. Cro.
Elig. 27. 2 Lev. 7. 3 Wilson, 390. 2 Schoales & Lbf. 393.
I Bro. Ch. Rep. 94. Holt's Nisi Prius Cases, 295..

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[L1oyd -.s. Scott.]

Mr Swahn, in reply, stated; tnat the demurrer was entered
to the deed, because on its face it showed an illegal contract,
and required no plea. Cited, Chitty on Contracts, 239,240.
1 Sid. 285. 1 Saund. 295. 5 Mod. 593. At the same
time the pleas were entered; which present, in different forms,
the contract as a loan; as an advance; as a corrupt agreement. The demurrer admits the facts stated in these pleas,
and all the inferences may be drawn which could be from
facts found by a special verdict.
In answer to the arguments of the counsel for the defendants there were cited: 3 Atk. 280. 1 Wilson, 295. 7
Bac. Ab.-Usury 194.. 3 Bos. & Pul. 159. .3 Barn. & Aid.
664. 4 Camp. 1. 3 Harris & John. 109. 5 Munf. 223.
Mr Justice M'LEAN dcjiveied th9 opinion of the Court.
This is an action of replevin, brought to replevy certain
goods and chattels which the defendant, as bailiff of William
S. Moore, had taken upon a distress for rent claimed to be
due upon certain houses and lots in Alexandria, owned and
possessed by the plaintiff.. The sum for which the distress
was made is five hundred dollars.
The declaration is in the usual form, and the damages are
laid at one thousand dollars. The defendant filed his cognizance, in which he acknowledges the taking of the goods
specified in the declaration; and states that a certain Jonathan Scholfield, being seised in fee of four brick tenements.
and a lot of ground in'tbe towi of Alexandria, by his indenture, dated the lth of June 1814, in consideration of'five
'thousand dollars, granted, bargained and sold to William.
S. Moore one certain annuity or yearly rent of five hundred
dollars, to be isquing out of and charged upon the said
houses and ground, and paid to the said Moore, his heirs'and
assigns, by equal half yearly payments df two hundred.and
fifty dollars, on the l0th of December, and on the 10th of
June, in each year, for ever thereafter;* tb have and to bold
the said annuity or rent charged and payable as aforesaid, to
the said William S. Moore, his heirs and assigns f6rever. It
also states, that the said Scholfield, for himself and his heirs
and assigns, did, by the- saidt indenture, among other things,

SUPREME COURT.
LLloyd tis. Scott.]

covenant well and truly to pay to the said Moore, his heirs
and assigns, the said annual rent of five hundred dollars, by
equal half yearly payments for ever. And if the rent should
not be paid as it become due, it should be lawful for the
siidMoore, his heirs and assigns to make distress for it.
That Moore was.seised of the rent on the 11th of December
1.814, and has since remained seised thereof
-The-cognizance further states, that on.the 29th of October
1816, the said Jonathan Scholfield, by his.deed of bargain and
sale, conveyed to Lloyd the plaintiff, for ever, certain tenements and lots of ground in-the town of Alexandria, whereof
the said four brick tenements and lot of ground were parcel,
and subject to the rent charge stated. That Lloyd has been
seised ever since and'possessed of the same; and that on the
10th of June 1824, two hundred and fifty dollars, a part of the
rent,was-due, and on the 10th of December f6lowing, two
hundred aud fifty-dollars, the balance of the annual rent, was
due'and- unpaid; for which sums the defendant, as bailiff,
levied a distress.
The cognizance 'is concluded by praying a judgment for
one-,thousand dollars, being double the amount of the rent
in arrear.
. Moore covenants in the deed, that if Scholfield, his heirs
or .assigns, "shall at any time after the expiration of five
years from the date of the deed, pay to the said Moore, his
heirs or assigns, the' sum' of five thousand dollars, together
with all arrears of rent, and a rateable dividend of the rent,
for the time which shall have elapsed between the half year
day then next preceding and the day on which such payment
,shbll. be made; hd, th'e said Moore, his heirs and assigns, will
execute and deliver any deeds or instruments which may be
necessary for releasing and'extingw-hing the rent or annuity
hereby created; which, on such payment-being made, shall
for ever after cease to be payable."
Scholfield covenanted for himself, his heirs and assigns,
that be would keep the buildings in repair'; have ihem fully
.insured. against fire; and would assign- the policies of insu.
rance to such trustee as Moore, his heirs or assigns, might
appoint, that the money may be applied to the rebuilding of

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Lloyd vs. Scott.]

the houses destroyed by fire,- or repairing any damage which
they *mightsuffer.
To this cognizance the plaintiff filed a special demurrer;
.which in the argument fie abandoned, and relies upon the
special pleas of usury. To each of the four pleas the ddfendbint demurs specially, and assigns for causes of demurrer,
1. That the said pleas do not set forth with any reasonable certainty, ihe pretended contract which is alleged to
have been usurious, and do not show an usurious contract.
2: That they do not state the time the said pretended loan
was made.
S. That they do not state the amount of interest reserved
or intended to be reserved, on the said pretended contract.
4. That they do not set forth any loan or forbearance of
any debt.
5. That they neither admit nor deny the sale and conveyance of the premises charged with the annuity or rent to
have been made by Scholfield to the plaintiff below.
Upon these demurrers the circuit court rendered~udgment
-for one thousand dollars, the double rent claimed in the
cognizance.
The plaintiff here prays a reversal of this judgment.
I. Because the deed which forms a part of the cognizance,
on'its face, shows an usurious contract.
2. Becaust the pleas set foxth, with.sufficient certainty, an
usurious contract.
The statute of Virginia against usury was passed-in 1793,
and provides, that no person shall take, directly or indirectly, more than six dollars for the forbear'ance qf one hundreddollars per annum; and it declares, that all bonds and other
instruments, for a greater amount of interest, shall be utterly
void.
In support of the demurrer, it is argued3that the pleas are
defective, ts they do not contain any allegation of facts
which amount to usury; and that the decision must turn on
the construction of the contract between Scholfield and
Moore. And it is contended, that although usury appears
upon the face of a deed, yet advantage can only be'taken of
it by plea. That the obligee may explain the contract, by

SUPREME COURT.
[Lloyd vs. Scott.]

showing a mistake in the scrivener, or a miscalculation of
the parties.
In Comyn on Usury, 201, itislaid down that in an action
on a specialty, though it appear on the face of the-declaration that the bond, &c. is usurious, still no advantage can be
taken of this, unless the statute be specially pleaded. 3
Salk. 291. 5 Coke's Rep. 119. Chitty on Contracts, 240.
'1 Sid. 285. I Saund. 295, a. The decision of this point
is nqt necessarily involved in the case.
The requisites 'toform an usurious transaction are three:
1. A loan either express or implied.
2. An understanding that the money lent shbll or may be
returned.
3. That a greater rate of interest than is allowed by the
statute, shall be paid.
The intent with which the act is done, is an important
ingredient to constitute this offence. An ignorance of the.
law, will not protect a party from the penalties of usury,
,wherd it is committed; but where mere was no intention to
evade the law, and the facts'Whici amount to usury, whether
they appear upon the face of the contract, or by other proof,
can be shoWn to have been the result of mistake.or accident,
no penalty attaches.
At an early period in the history of English jurisprudence,
usury, or as it was then called, the loaning of money at interest, was deemed a very high offence. But since the days
of Henry VIII. the taking of interest has been sanctioned
by statute. ,
In this.country, some of the'states have no laws against
taking lny amount of interest, which may' be fixed by, the
contract. The act of usury has long-since lost that deep moral stain,
which was formerly attached to it; and is now generally
considered only as an illegal or immoral act, because it is
law. Assuming the position, that the pleas
prohibited
contain no by
averments which extend beyond' the terms of the
contract; the counsel in support of the demurrers have contended, that no fair construction of the deed, will authorise
the inference that it was given on an usurious consideration.

JANUARY TERM 1830.

.225

[Lloyd vs. Scott.]

It was the purchase of an annuity, it is contended; and though
the annuity may produce a higher rate of interest than. six
per cent upon the consideration, paid for it, yet this does
not taint the transaction with usury.
If the court were. limited by the pleas to the words of
the contract, and it purported to be a purchase .of'an annuity, and no evidence were adducec giving a different
character to the transaction, -this, argument would be pnanswerable. An annuity may be purchased like a tract of
land or other property, and the inequality of price will not,
of itself, make the contract usurious. -If the inadequacy of
consideratiort be great, -in any purchase, it may lead to suspicion; and, connected with other circumstances, mayeinduce
a court of chancery to relieve against the contract.
In the case under consideration, five 'thousand 'dollars
were paid for a ground rent of five hundred dollars per
annum. This. circumstance, although ten per cent be received on the money paid, does not make the contract unfawful. If it were a bona fide purchase of an annuity, there is
ah end to the question : and the condition which gives the
option to the vendor to repurchase the reni,'by paying- the.
five thousand dollars after the lapse of five years- would not
invalidate the contract. I Brown's Ch. 7, 93. The right to
repurchase, as also the inadequacy of price, would be circumstances for the consideration'of a.jury.
The case reported in 2 Coke, 252, is strongly relied on by
the counsel for the defendant. In that case, an action of
debt was brought upon an obligation of three hundred.
pounds, conditioned for the payment of twenty pounds per
annum, during the lives of the plaintiff's wife and son- The
defendant- pleaded the stattte'Of usuryi and that -he applied
to the defendant to borrow.of him one hundred and twenty
pounds, at the lawful rate of interest; but that he corruptly
offered to deliver one hundred and twenty pounds to him, if
he would be obliged to pay twenty pounds per annum.
The court considered this as an absolute contract for the
payment of twenty pounds per annum during two lives; and
no agreement being made for thd return of the principai,
it was not considered usury. But, they stated, if there had
VOL. IV.-2 D

SUPREME COURT.,
[Lloyd vs. Scott.]

been any provision for the repayment of the principal, although not expressed in .the bond, the contract would have
been usurious.
This is a leading case, and the principle on which itrests
has not been controverted. by modern decisions.
Scholfield, it appears, was under no obligation to repurchase the annuity, but he .had the option of doing so after
the lapse of five years, which is a strong circumstance to
show the nature of the transaction.
The purchase of an annuity, or any other device used to
cover an usurious transaction, -will be unavailing. If the
contract be infected with usury, it cannot be enforced.
Where an annuity is raised with the design of covering
a loan, the lender will not be exempted by it from the
penalties of usury. 3 Bos. & Pul. 159. On this point there
is no contradiction in the authorities.
If a party ag e'e to pay a specific suia exceeding the lawful int. rest, provided he do not pay the principal by a day
certain, it-is not usury. By a punctual payment of the principal he may avoid the payment of the sum stated, which is
considered as a penalty.
Where a loan is made to be returned at a fixed day with
more than the legal rate of interest, depending upon a casualty which hazards both principal and interest, the contract
is not usurious; but where the interest only is hazarded, it
is usury.
Does the decision in this case, as- has been contended, depend upon a construction of the contract ! Are there no
averments in the pleas which' place before the court material fMcts 'to constitute usury, that do not appear on the
face of the deed '1
If the court were limited to a mere construction of the
contract, they would have no difficulty in deciding that the
case was not- strictly embraced by the statute.
In the second plea, the plaintiff below prays oyer of the deed
of indenture, and among other statements alleges, "that it
was corruptly agreed between the said Scholfield and the said
Moore, that the said Moore should lend to himthe sum of five
thousand dollars, and in consideration thereof, that he should

JANUARY TERM 183o.
[Lloyd vs. Scott.]

execute the said deed, &c." And in another part of the same
plea it is stated, "that the said Moore did corruptly agree,
that he would in the said indenture covenant, &c. that if the
said Scholfield, his heirs and assigns, should, at any time after
the expiration of five years from the date of said indenture,
pay to the said Moore, his heirs and assigns, the sum of five
thousand dollars, together with all arrears of rent, he, the
said Moore, would release to him the said annuity."
And it is further alleged, "that the said Moore, in pursuance and in prosecution of the said corrupt agreement, did
advance to the said Scholfield the said sum of five thousand
dollars." And again, "that the said deed of indenture was
made, in consideration of money lent upon and for usury; and
that by the said indenture there has been reserved and taken
above the rate of six dollars per annum in the hundred, for
the forbearance of the said sum of five thousand dollars so
lent as aforesaid."
The fourth plea contains, substantially, the allegations as
to the lending, &c. that are found in the second plea.
-The facts stated in the pleas are admitted by the demurrers, and the question of usury arises on these facts, connected
as they are with the contract.
Although the second and fourth pleas may not contain
every proper averment with technical accuracy, yet they are
substantially good. All the material facts to constitute usury
are found in the second plea.
It states a corrupt agreement to loan the ,money, at a
higher rate of interest than the law allows. That the money
was advanced and the contract executed, in pursuance'of
such agreement. That on .the return of the principal, with
a full payment ;f the rent, after the lapse of five years, the.
annuity was to be released. The amouni agreed to be paid
above the legal interest, for the forbearance, is not expressly
averred, but the facts are so stated in the plea as to show
the amount with certainty. , Five hundred dollars, under
cover of the annuity, were to be paid, annually, for the forbearance of the five thousand dollars, making an annual interest of ten per cent. Do not these facts, uncontradicted

SUPREME COURT.
[Lloyd vs. Scott.]

as they are, amount to usury . Is it not evident, from this
statement of the case, that the annuity was created as a
means for paying the interest, until the principal should be
returned, and, as a disguise to. the transaction! Such is the
legitimate inference which arises from the facts stated in
thef plea.
At this point in the case an important question is raised,
whether Lloyd, the plaintiff in the replevin, being the assignee of Scholfield, can set up this plea of usury in his
-defence. It is strongly contended that he cannot. He purchased this property, it is alleged, subject to the annuity,
and paid for it a proportionably less consideration. That
knowing bf the charge before he made' the purchase, it
would be unjust for him now to evade, the payment. And
the inquiry is niade, whether Lloyd could plead usury in
.this contract, if the annuity had been purchased by Scholfield. He would be estopped from doing so, it is urged, by
the obligations of his own contract, as he is now estopped
from resisting the claim.of Moore.
As to the, injustice of the defence, it may be remarked
that the objection, would apply with still greater force against
Scholfield, if he were to attempt, by a similar defence, to
evade the payment of the annuity. He received the money
after assenting to the contract; but he is at liberty to evade
the payment of the annuity by the plea of usury. Is the
position correctly taken, that no person can avail himself
of this plea, but a party to the original contract .
The principle seems to be settled, that usurious securities
are not only void, as .between" the original parties, but the
illegality of their inception affects them even in the hands
of third persons who are, entire strangers to the transaction.
Comyn on Usury, 169. A stranger must " take heed to his
assurance, at his peril;" and cannot insist on his ignorance
of the contract, in support of his claim" to recover upon a
security which originated in usury.
In the case of Lowe vs. Waller, Douglass, 735, the plaintiff was the indorser of a )bill originally made upon an
usurious contract : though he had received it for a valuable

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Lloyd vs. Scott.]

consideration, and was entirely ignorant of its vice, the
court of king's bench, after great consideration, determined
that the words of: the statute were too strong; and that after
what had been held in a case on the statute against gaming,
the plaintiff could not recover.
If a, bill of exchange be drawn in consequence of an
usurious agreement fdr discounting it, although the drawer
to whose order it was payable was not privy to this agreement, still it is void in the hands of a bona- fide indorser. 2
Camp. 599. In Holt's N. P. 256, Lord Ellenborough lays
down the law, that a bona fide holder cannot recover upon
a bill founded in usury; so neither can he recover u'pon a
note where the payee's indorsement through which he must
claim has been made by an usurious agreement. But, if
the first indorsement be valid, a subsequent usurious indorsement will ,not affect him ; because such intermediate
indorsement is not necessary to his title to sue the original
parties to the note.
It a note be usurious in its inception, and it pass into the
hands of a bona fide holder who has no notice of the usury,
and the -drawer give to the holder a bond for the amount of
the note, -the bond would .not be affected by the usury. 8
Term Rep. 390.
In the case of Jackson vs. Henry, reported in 10 Johnson,
185, a plea of usury was set up to invalidate the title of a
purchaser at a sale of mortgaged premises. This sale, under
the statute of New York, is equivalent to a foreclosure by
a decree in chancery ; and the court, decided, that the title
of the purchaser, was not affected by usury in the debt for
which the mortgage was given. The statute of New York
declares, all bonds, bills, contracts and assurances, infected
with usury, "utterly void." And so say the court, on the
adjudged cases, when the suit at law is between the original
parties,; or upon the very instrument infected.
The case of D'Wolf vs. Johnson, reported in 10 Wheat.
367, is relied on by the counsel for the defendant, as a decision in point.
In that case it will be observed, that 'the first mortgage

SUPREME COURT.
[Lloyd vs. Scott.1

beingo executed in Rhode Island in 1815, was not usurious by
-the laws of that state; and the second one, executed in
Kentucky, in 1817, 'being a new contract, was not tainted
with usury. The question therefore, whether the purchaser
of an equity of redemption can show usury in the mortgage
to defeat a foreclosure, was not involved in that case.
The Virginia statute makes void every usurious contract;
and the second' plea contains allegations which, uncolitradicted, show that the contract between Moore and Scholfield was usurious in its origin.
This contract, thus declared to be void, is sought to be
enforced against Lloyd, the purchaser of the property
charged with the annuity. Between Scholfield -and Lloyd
there is a privity; and if the contract for the annuity be infected with usury, is it not void as against Lloyd q
In this contract, a summary remedy is given to enter on
the premises, and levy, by distress and sale of the goods and
chattels there found, for the rent in arrear ; and if the-distress
should be insufficient to satisfy the rent, and it should remain
unpaid for thirty days, Moore is authorised to enter upon
the premises, and to 'expel Scholfield, his heirs and assigns,
and hold the estate. Lloyd, as the assignee of'Scholfield,
comes within the terms of the cofitract; and is liable, being
in possession of the premises, to have his property distrained for the rent, and if it be not paid, himself expelled from
the possession. Under such circumstances, may he not avail
himself of the plea of usury, 'and show that the contract,
which so materially affects his rights, is invalid'. Moore
seeks his remedy under this contract, and if it be usurious
and consequently void, can it be enforced '
If usury may be shown in the inception- of a bill, to defeat
a recovery by an indorsee, whQ paid for it a valuable consideration without notice of the usury; may not the same
defence, be set up,'where, in a case like the present, the party
to the usurious contract claims, by virtue of its provigions,
a summary mode of redress.
The court entertain no doubt on this subject. They think
a case of usury is made out by the facts stated in the second
plea, and that Lloyd may avail himself of such a defence.

JANUARY TERM 1830.

231,

[Lloyd vs. Scott.]

The judgment of the circuit court must be reversed, and
the cause remanded, with instructions to overrule the demurrers to the second and fourth pleas, and permit the defendant to plead.

Thi's cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the circuit court of the United States for the
district of Columbia, holden in and for the colnty of Alexandria, and was argued by counsel ; on consideration whereof,
it is ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment
of the said circuit court in this cause be and the same is
hereby reversed, and that this cause be and the same is
hereby remanded to the said circuit court, with instructions
to overrule the demurrers to the second and fourth pleas, and
to permit the defendant to plead, and for such further proceedings as to law and justice may appertain.

