SUPREME COURT.

mnERROR v8.
TnoiAs C. PITTKAN.

THE PRoVmENcE BANK, PLAixm~ns
InGS AND

ALPnEus BL-

In 1791 the legislature of Rhode Island granted a charter of incorporation to
certain individuals who had associated for the purpose of banking.. They
were incorporated by the fiame of the president, directors, and company
of the Providence Bank, with the ordinary powers of such associations. In
1822 the legislature passed an act imposing a tax on every bank in the state,
except the bank of the United States. The Providence Bank refused the
payment of the tax, alleging-that the act which imposed it was repugnant to
the constitution of the United Statis ; as it impaired the obligation of the contract created by the charter of incorporation. Held, that the act of the legislature of Rhode Island, imposing a tax, which, under the law, wa assessed on
the Providence Bank, does not impair the obligation of the contract created by
the charter granted to the bank.
It has been settled, that a contract entered into between a state and an individual, is as fully protected by the prohibitions contained in the tenth section,
first article of the constitution, as a contract between two individuals ; and it is
not denied that a charter incorporating a bank is a contract.
The power of taxing fnoneyed borporations has been .frequently exercised, and
has never before, so far as is known, been resisted. its novelty, however,
furnishes no conclusive argument against it.
That the taxing power is of vital importance!; that it is essential to the existence,
of government; are truths which it cannot be necessary to reaffirm. They are
acknowledged and asserted by all. It would seem that the relinquishment of
such a power is neverto be assumed. We will not say that a state may not relinquish it; that a consideration sufficiently valuable.to induce a partial release
of it may not exist: but as the whole community is interested in retaining it
undiminished, that community has a right to insist that its abandonment ought
not to be presumed in a case in which the deliberate purpose of the state to
abandon it does not appear.
The great object of an.incorporation is to bestow the characterand properties of
individuality on a collcctcd and changing body of men. Any privileges which
may exempt it from the burthens common to individuals, do not flow iecessatily from the charter, but must be expressed in it, or they do not exist.
The power of legislation, and consequently of taxation, operates on all the persons and property belonging to the body politic. This is an original principle,
which has its ioundation in societj itself. It is granted by all, for the benefit
of all. It resides in government as a part of itself; and need not be reserved
where property of any description, or the right to use it in any manner, is
granted to individualI or corporate bodies.
huwever absolute the right of an individual may be, it is still in the nature of
that right that it must bear a portion of the public burthens, and that portion
must be determined by the legislature. This'vital power may be abused; but
the constitution of the United States was not intended to furnish the cotrec-

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Providence Bank vs. Billings and Pittman.]
tion of every abuse of power which may be committed to the state governments. The intrinsic wisdom and justice of the representative body, and its
relations with its constituents, furnish the only security where thereis no express contract, against unjust and excessive taxation, as well as against unwise
legislation generally.

THIS was a writ of error 'o the supreme judicial court of
the state of Rhode Island ; and the question which was presented for the consideration of the court, was the constitutionality of an act passed by the legislature of the state of
Rhode Island, in January 1822, entitled" an act'imposing a
duty upon licensed persons and others, and bodies corporate
within this state ;" alleged to be a violation of the contract
contained in the charter of the bank. Under the provisions of
tfiis act, and in conformity with them, a tax was imposed on
the Providence Bank'; and the bank having refused payment
thereof, a seizure was made for.the amount of the tax in the
banking house, by Alpheus Billings, the sheriff of the county
of Providence, and by Mr Pittman, the general treasurer of
the state of Rhode Island. The bank 'instituted an action
of trespass for this taking against the sheriff and the treasurer,
in the court of common pleas of tile county of Providence;
to which action the defendants pleaded in their defence the
,act imposing the tax, and the amendments thereto; and that
in pursuance of the provisions of the same a warrant. Was
issued, and the proceedings which were the subject of the
action were "done.
To this plea the bank filed a general and a special demurrer. Among the causes of demurrer, the repugnancy of
the acts of the general assembly imposing the tax to the constitution of the United States, inasmuch as they violate the
contract set forth in the declaration, the act incorporating
the bank, and, inasmuch as they authorise private property
to be taken for public purpose, without providing any compensation; are distinctly stated.
A judgment against them was submitted to by the bank
in the court of common pleas; and they appealed to the
supreme judicial court, where the judgment of the inferior
court was confirmed by submission on the paft of the bank;

516

SUPREME COURT.
[Providence Bank vs. Billings and Pittman.]

and they prosecuted this writ of error, under the twenty-fifth
section of the judiciary act of 1789.
The Providence Bank was chartered by the legislature of
Rhode Island in October 1791. The preamble of the act
states,
" Whereas, the president and directors of a bank established at Providence, on the 3d of October last,.have petitioned
this ge*neral assembly for an act 'to incorporate the stockholders in said bank, and wherea5, well regulated banks
have proved very beneficial in several of the United States,
as well as in Europe: therefore be it enacted by the general
assembly, and by the authority thereof it is hereby enacted;
that the stockholders in said bank, their successors and assigns, shall be, and are hereby-created, and made a corporation and body politic, by the name and style .ofthe president, directors and company of the Providence Bank, and by
that name shall be, and are hereby made able and capable in
law, to have, purchase, receive, possess, en.oy, and retain to
them and their successors, rents, tenements, hereditaiments,
goods, chattels and effects of what kind or nature soever,
and the same to sell, grant, devise, alien or dispose of, to
sue and be sued, plead and be impleaded, answer and be
,answered, defend and be defended, in courts of record, or
any other place whatsoever; and also to make, have and use
a common seal, and the same to break, alter and renew at
their pleasure, and also to ordain, establish and put in execution such by-laws, ordinances and regulations, as shall
seem necessary and convenient for the government of the
said corporation, not being contrary to law, or the constitution of -aid bank, and generally to do and execute ill and
singular acts, matters and things, which to them it shall or
may appertain to do.
"And whereas, the stockholders, on the said 3d day of
October, formed and adopted a constitution for said bank, in
the words following, viz.
"Taught by the experience of Europe and America, that
well regulated banks are highly useful to society, by promoting punctuality in the performance of contracts, increasing the medium of trade, facilitating the payment of taxes,

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Providence Bank vs. Billings and Pitiman.]

preventing the exportation of specie, furnishing for ita safe
deposit, and by discounts rendering'easy and expeditious
the anticipations of funds.on lawful interest, advancing at
the same time the interest of the proprietors; we, the -subscribers, desirous of promoting such an institut-6n, do hereby
engage to take the humber of shares set- against our names
respectively, in a bank to be established in Providence, in
the state of Rhode Island, on the following plan, &c.
The plan, of the association is set fortlT in the act, and is
.made a part of the charter. It provides for'the opening of
subscriptions for the stock of the bank, to conigist of six hundred and twenty-five shares, of four hundred dollars'each,
making a capital of two hundred and fifty thousand dollars;
aid for the organization of the bank. The act gives to the
"corpdration the usual pow6rs necessary to carry
into effect
the objects of its -formation, and makes provisions for the
transaction of the business of the. company. Amendments
to this act were afterwards passed Oy the legislature.
The case was argued by-Mr Whipple, for the plaintiffs in
error; and by Mr Hazzard and"Mr Jones, for the defendants.
Mr Whipple, for the plaintiff in error, said; as this case invIlves constitutionalprinciples of great delicacy and importance, it may not be useless to advert to.the principles
establish I by this court.
At no pbriod in the political or civil history of. England
or of this country, has it beer admitted that the legislature
possessed unlimited or absolute power. Under the British "
government, the rights of private property were respected,
long antecedent to emigration to this country; although
violence to the political rights of the subjects of the crown
are fiequently recorded in history. The immunities of private property, and'the inviolability of vested rights,. have
been asserted by political and legal writers, and established
by judicial decisions , for three centuries past.
Th assertion of .a limit to legislative authority was constant during the colonial existence of this country; and
the principle was afterwards inserted in the bills of rights,
and in the constitutions of states. At a very early period af-

SUPREME COURT.
[Providence Bank vs. Billings and Pittman.]

ter the establishment of the government of the United
States, it became necessary to give.to these received opinions the sanction of judicial authority ; and this was done
by this court in 1798, inthe case of Calden vs. Ball, 3 Dall.
Rep. 186. 1 Condensed Rep. 172. 'The principles of that
case,.so far as they declare the obligation of a contract to be
superior to the power of the legislature, were re-asserted in
Fletcher vs. Peck, 6 Cranch's Rep. 88. Again these princliles were maintained in the cases of the State of New
Jersey vs. Wilson, 7 Cranch, 104. Terrett vs. Taylor, 9
Cranch, 43. The Town of Pawlet vs. Clarle et al. 9
Cranch, 202. Sturges vs. Crowninshield, 4 Wheat. 122.
M'Culloch vs. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316. The Dartmouth
College vs. Woodward, 4 Wheat. 518. Weston vs. The
City Council of Charleston, 2 Peters, 450.
The cases which have the strongest bearing, and which are
thought to decide the present case, are Fletcher vs. Peck,
M'Culloch's case, the Dartmouth College case, and the casq
of the City Council of Charleston. Fletcher vs. Peck
establishes the principle that a state cannot invalidate its
own grant ; that in making a grant, it acts as a party, and is
bound as a party. "Every grant (say the court) is, in its
own'nature, an extinguishment of the right of the grantor
and implies an obligation not to re-assert that right."
The Dartmouth College case puts an end to all discussion
of the question, whether a charter is a contract, and whether
the public benefit derived from them is not a sufficient consideration '. The language of'the court is so full and clear
upon those points, that it is believed that no doubt will be
entertained upon them.
Mr Whipple then went into a particular examination of the
de. He said the bank was incorporated in 1791, with the
-usual powers of a corporation. The motives of the legislature in granting the charter, which was the legal considera-tion of the grant, are declared in these terms.
"Taught by the experience of Europe and America, that
-wel regulated banks are highly useful to society, by promoting punctuality in the performian of contracts, increasjig the medium of.trade, facilitating the payment-of taxes,

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Providence Bank vs. Billings and Pittman.]

preventing the exportation of specie, furnishing for it a safe
deposit, and by discounts rendering easy and expeditious
the anticipations nf funds on lawful interest, advancing at
the same time the interest of the proprietors," &c.
The first and seventh sections of the charter evidently
contemplate the ownership- of property by the bank in its
corporate capacity. The real estate and the pfofits of. the
capital stock, previous to a dividend, may be donsidered as
belonging to the bank. But the capital stock itself is as
much the property of a stranger as of the bank There cannot well be-two entire owners to the same property. The
stockholders have the property,- and the c~rporation the
management of it. The corporation is not even the trustee:
for it has not the legal estate, and no power to sell. It has
merely the naked possession, with the perpetual legal right
of using the funds for the benefit of the legal and equitable
owners.
The stock was subscribed for at a very early period, and
the bank went into successful operation. The capital was
subsequently increased to five hundred thousand dollars.
For many years past, the shares have sold from fifteen to
twenty-five per cent. advance, owing, in part, to the belief
that the charter ivas perpetual, and that the legislature had
no power over it. No power to repeal or to modify, by subsequent law, was reserved; and none was believed to exist,
until January. 1822.
Most of the present ownrs purchased their stock at an
advance, a part of which will be lost to them, if the power
recently claimed by the legislature has a legal and a constitutional existence. The chartdr of the Providence bank
was the first that was granted by the legislature of Rhode
Island. For several years it was the only bank in the state.
Between'the date of its charter, however, and June 1822,
several charters were granted, substantially liJe it* In June
1822, the time when the act imposing a tax on banks went
into operation, the charter of the Mount Hope bank, in
Warren, was granted.
The eighth section provides, " that this'act of incorporatiop be, and the same is hereby declared-to be, subject to all

520

SUPREME COURT.
[Providence Bank vs. Billings and Pittman.]

acts which may be passed by the, general assembly, in
amendment- or repeal thereof, or in any way affecting the
same;"
The potver of the legislature to.tak the banks hadbeen
previously denied; and the argument against that power Yras.
delivered but a few days before the granting the charter..of
the Mount Hope bank. All.thte charters since contain ,,
similar reservation.
From the earliest period, down to tWe act.of.1822,taxes
in Rhode Island had been "uniform. '1'he-proporfion wifich',
each.town was bound to contributa was settled by an act
passed in 1747. By the act of 1747 the proportion which
'the town of Providence paid towards the expenses of the
state was one-ninth.
A new apportionment among the.
sevetal towns in the state was made. in 1796, by.,whi@h the
town of Providence was required to pay one-fifth. .[n 1824
.-another apportionment: fixed nearly one-third upon that
town. Only one tax, however, has ever been ordered under
that estimate.
. The mode of collecting taxes .uudpr these.various laws
produced great uniformity as -to individuals. The, treasurer
of the state issuxed his wawant'to the treasurers of the seve-r
ral towns, requiring them to collect froin the inhabitants
each town's'proportion of the sum to be raised. .Ths,proportion of each town was assessed upon'individuals, according to the supposed value-of their real and personal estate.
This has been the usage from the earliest settlement of the
state, with very slight variations, down- to the. act of 1822.'
-With"the exception of one' tax of fifteen thousand dollars,
ordered'by an act of May 1824, the whole expenses ofthe
state have been. paid- under the act of .1822. The whole
amount collected under the license act of 1822, from, its
commencement to the end of the year 1827, is thirty-fiv%
thousand nine hundred and twenty-one dollars twelve cents.
Of that amount twenty-six" thousand three hundred and
eighty dollars eighty-six cents was paid by the town of Provid'ence, and twelve thousand eight hundred and eighteen
dollars by the banks. The largest proportion of the bank
capital is in hat town, and the effect of the license act has

JANUARY TERM 1830.

521

[Providence Bank vs. Billings and Pittman.]

been to burthen it with more than two-thirds of the taxes
of the state. The amount-paid under the act, in 1828 and
1829, by the tcwn of Providence, was three-fourths of the
whole. The proportion has been increasing against the
town from 1822 to the present time, as will- be seeniby an
examihation of the accounts of the treasury. The -whole
real estate, and all other property in the state, is exempted
from taxation; and the paying partrbf the'business of government thrown principally upon one town.
The question for the consideration of the court is, whether such a tax, so far as regards the banks, whose charters
were granted previous to 1822, and:-without any reservation
.of authority over them, is a constitutional tax qi It will be
kept in mind that the charters of all banks established since
May, 1829 contain ample reservations of- power.
The charter of the Providence Bank was granted in November 1791 ; and until'1797 it was the only bank in the
state. Its capital, at first, was fixed, at two hundred and fifty
thousand dollars, but it was subsequently increased to five
hundred thousand dollars. Although no bonus was paid to
the state, yet the advantages; expected by the public, are
fully stated in the charter, and constitute the consideration
of the contract. The contract was, that the stockholders
should be entitled to all the advantages of employing their
money in banking business, through the agency of a corporation ; and the state to all the benefit of a "well regulated
bank." These advantages were expected' by the parties, for
they are expressly stated in the charter, and constitute reciprocal rights and obligations. "Whenever the business of
.the corporation is so managed as to injure instead of benefiting.the 'public; whenever an undte amotint of bills is
issued; specie payments refused, and the currency depreciated ; then is there a violation of the contract on the part
of the stockholders, and the sovereign may interfere, for they
contracted to maintain a "well regulated bank." The statd
has a right to ;ee this object accomplished, and to pass all
laws necessary for the purpose. The admission which we
most freely make, of a power in the state, so to regulate the
conduct of corporations as to attain the objects ot their forVOL,. IV.-3 Q

SUPREME COURT.
[Providence Bank vs. Billings and Pittman.]

mation may appear to conflict with a proposition, which we
shall endeavor to sustain; which is this, that the state, by becoming a party to the contract, was as much bound to respect the rights of the other party, as if the state had been
an individual. There is, however, in reality, no hostility
between the admission and the proposition. All the legislative power which the state has a right to exert, is remedial
in its character, furnishing remedies for or against the corporations, and imposing penalties for violations of their contract. The same power might have been exercised over the
Dartmouth college, and the same authority is constantly exercised in all the states, over corporations of their own creation. The proceedings of the legislatures of some of the
states are of a mixed character, partly legislative and partly
judicial. So far as they are legislative, they are clearly
remedial; so far as they are judicial, they annex penalties
for doing what, under a more regular system of jurisprudence, they would be adjudged to have forfeited their charter for doing.
In the examination of this case, it will be necessary to consider,
1. The contract, the rights which it confers on one party,
and the obligations it imposes on the other.
2. The act of 1822, and the effect which that act has upon
the right conferred by the contract.
3. The provision in the constitution of the United States,
against impairing the obligation of contracts.
First, what was the contract! This general question involves an inquiry into the elements which usually constitute
what the law terms a contract. The usual ingredients are :
a consideration, parties, and a subjeci matter. What is
called the obligation of a contract, is the duty which the law
imposes upon a party not to disturb any of the legal rights
conferred upon the other party. The extent of the rights of
one party, therefore, is the measure of the obligation of the
other.
In the first place, there was a full ana an ample consideration; not a consideration implied, but expregsly stated.
The fisk of 4dvancing two hundred and fifty thousand dollars, in 1791, to be employed in banking business, was very

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Providence Bank vs. Billings and Pittmaii.]

great. The constitution of the United States was not ratified in Rhode Island, we think, until the year 1790. Although at that period the people of that state had been
"taught, by the experience of Europe and America, that well
regulated banks were highly useful to society," yet they had
not been taught that they Were very profitable to the stockholders. The times were still very feverish. The shopk occasioned by paper money had not entirely subsided. The
effect of the constitution of the general government had not
been ascertained. Money was very scarce, credit very low,
and punctitality out of the question. Indeed, it is stated in
the charter, that oneof the effects beneficial to the public,
expected from the bank, was to promote punctuality in payments.
The wonderful activity given to trade a short time
after, by the war in Europe, was then unlooked for. Under
these circumstances, it required all the influence of the
leading men in the town of Providence,- to obtain money sufficient for so hazardous and doubtful an enterprise. So uncertain was the experiment, that a subscription could not
be obtained, without providing in the charter a xemedy for
the collection of debts due to the bank, which was withheld
from all iffdividuals. This remedy consisted in the power
of attaching the real and personal estate of the debtor, on
mesne process. In practice, this amounted to a priority of
payment. The state v~illingly granted this, in consideration
of the value of the institution t6 the public, and the hazard
to the stockholders. The same remedy has been granted to
all banks since, in order that one may have no advantage
over the other.
Notwithstanding these inducements, a period of six years
elapsed before another bank went into operation. The first
meeting of the stockholders of the bank of Rhode Island
was at Newport, in January 1797. The consideration then
was ample. The stockholders purchased the privilege of
banking. They paid for it a high pride, and the case Will
result in a question whether they are to pay for it agaiif.
The parties to the contract were the stockholders in their
individual capacity, on one side ;-and the state in: its sovereign dharacter, on the other. It was not a.contract between

SUPREME .COURT.
IProvidence Bank vs. Billings and Pittman.]

the state and the corporation; the corporation had no existence until the contract was completed. The corporation,
instead of being a party, was the subject of the contract.
It was the thinggranted, and not the person to whom the
grant-was made. The other party was a.str.L', possessing
various and extensive sovereign powers. In making this
contrAct, it acted in its sovereign character; for it had no
other character in which it could act. It meant to bind
itself in its sovereign character; for there was no other character which it could bind. It was well known that the
principal strength of sovereignty consisted in its power of
making laws, and that the only effectual mode of, binding
sovereigity was to restrain its law-making power; and that,
to restrain its law-making power upon all subjects but one,
and leave it, free upon that, was tantamount to no restraint
at all. If, therefore,.the state was a party to a contract, it
intended to bind'its law-making power. The law presumes
that a party understands the legal effect of a contract, and
thathe intends that legal effect. The leg~leffect of a contract
isto bind the parties to all -its stipu!ations ; to bind them
in ,the -capacity in which they contracted, and to bind them
equally. It was intendedthen that both the parties should
be,bound, aid that, consequently, neither should possess the
power to liberate itself, without the consent of. the other.
It therefore results from the fact that the chatter is a contract; that the state nieant to bind itself. in its sovereign
capacity and to retrain -the exercise of all its law-making
powers, so that it thould not be- able to resume the grant,
-6r to render the subject of the grant of no value, or to make
its value dependent on -its own will, instead of being dependent upon the terms of the rontact, and the law 'ofthe
land:
But further : the fact of the state's 'having become a party
to a contract, is not only;conclusi-e evidence that it intended to bind itself, and to -restrain all its law-making powers,
but it is evidence of-the extent to which it'neant to impose
tjiat restraint. The object of binding the. state at all, was
to secure the irigkfs of the other party : consequently the
degree of restraintarus be such as will afford that security.

JANUARY tERM 1830.
(Providence Bank vs. Billings and Pittman.]

There is an absurdity-in saying -that the state meant to bind
itself, in order to secure the rights of the other party, and
saying, at the sarhe time, it intended a less degree of restraint than was sufficient for the purpose.
If the state intended to be bound at all, it intended to-b e
bound to the same extent as though it had been an individual, and not a sovereign state. A contract, in its very nature, imports reciprocity of rights and obligations: One
party is not to be bound to a greater extent than the other,
unless it is so expressed, or unless it is implied from necessity.
Having briefly considered what was the consideration of
the contract and who were the parties, a more important
object presents itself, which is to ascertain its obligation.
This can be done in no other way than by resorting to its
subject matter.
Rights and obligations are correlative terms. The extent
of the rights of one party is the exact measure of the obligation of the other: for, in the language* of this court,
"every grant implies an.obligation not to re-assert the right
granted."
1. There was granted to the stockholders, and to thei'r
successors, a perpetual right to the powers and capacities of
a corporation, denominated "the president, directors and
company of the Providence Bank."
2. There was also granted a perpetual right to employ five
hundred thousand dollars in banking business.
It would be absurd to say that the stockholders obtained
an act of incorporation, for the sake of an act of incorporation ; that they obtained a grant of the right of doing banking
business-for the -sake of banking business; but both were
granted for the profit that might arise from them. Is it not
,fairly to be implied, that the amount of that profit should be
all that could be made by banking business under the general laws of the land . The corporation, and the right to
transact banking business, were granted as mere means: the
end was the expected profit.
It must be agreed; that the charter was to be petpetual,
and that the stockholders cannot be deprived of it. It must

SUPREME COURT.
[Providence Bank vs. Billings and Pittman.]

hbe agreed that the right to transact banking business was to
be perpetual, and that the stockholders cannot be 4eprived
of it. Must it not, then,be agreed, that the right to all the
* profits was to be perpetual, and that the stockholders cannot b deprived of it! If the right. to the means' was intended to be legal rights, was not the. right to'the end to be
of the same character . Can it be believed that perpetual
means would be granted, to obtain a doubtful and uncertain
end!. Thai the subordinate parts of the contract should-be
held as rights, subject only to the law of the Tlnd; but that
the main object should be possessed only as a legislative indulgence . The presumption of law is, that all the rights
between the same parties, and.conferred by the same grant,
are to be of the same character, subject to the same tenure,
and to continue during the same time. Nothing but strong
language to the contrary will create a difference. Thp act
of incorporation is a legal right, subject to no partial or direct legislation. The right to banking. business is a legal
right, subject to no partial or direct legislation. Why, then,
is not a perpetual right to all. the profits a legal right, and
'subject to no partial legislation? Why should the control
of the state over one of these rights be greater than over the
other 1
We will now examine the act of 1822, with a view to ascertain whether it involves the power to destroy the rights
.granted by the contract.
The very title of the act is significant. It is "an act, imposing a duty on licensed persons and others, and b odies
corporate, within the state." It classes the banks with
licensed persons. It considers them, not as exercising their
legal rights under their contract, but as enjoying privileges
by the license and permission of the state.
It enacts that there shall be, hereafter, annually paid by
the .persons and bodies corporate within this state, herein
named, the following sums, to wit:
"By each and every person licensed by the town councils of the several towns, the sum of two dollarsto be paid
to the town councils before granting, the license; and by
them to be paid over to the general treasurer.

JANUARY TERM 1830.

527

[Providence Bank vs. Billings and Pittman.]

By each and every money broker, or money changei,
and each and every vendor of foreign lottery tickets, the
sum of one hundred dollars, to be paid to the town councils
at the time of granting licenses to those persons.
"By each and every bank within this state, (except the
bank of the United States,) the sum of fifty cents on each
and every thousand dollars of the capital stock actually
paid in."
It is too apparent to be denied that the legislatqre considered the charter of the banks as mere licenses. Even on
.that ground, it would have been no more than equal justice
to have required the fee when the license was granted, as is
provided in relation to all the other licensed persons mentioned in the act. It is a requisition ; a duty. It lays no
claim to the character of a tax. A tax implies proportion,
5 Rep. 53. It is a specific duty upon the privilege of the
bank; upon the franchise granted and paid for. Its advocates do not deny that this is its character: on the contrary,
they assert it, and justify it. They are driven to this by
necessity, for there is no other character that can attach to it. No one p;etends that it is a tax upon the property of the
banks. The act provides "that, hereafter; there shall be
annually paid by the persons and bodies corporate, within
this state, herein named, to and for the use of the state, the
following, sums, to wit, by each and every bank one dollar
twenty-five cents on each and every thoasand dollars of the
capital stock actually paid in." The capital stock is referred to, in order to'equalize the duty among the banks
themselves. The duty is not upon the capital stock, but
upon the banks. In relation to each other, it is a duty in
proportion to the capital stock. In relation to all other
persons, it is a direct and arbitrary requisition, not based
upon property, not controlled by any usage, and depending
'for its amount entirely upon the will and caprice of one of
the-parties to the contract.
There are but three views that can be taken of this act.
It is, first, either a tax upon the persons or polls of the corporations; which subjects it to the objection that it does not at
the- same time tax the 'persons of other corporations or indi"

SUPREME COURT.
[Providence Bank vs. Billings and Pittman.]

viduals; or,second, it is a.tax upon the franchise of the bank,
which was purchasecLby the stockholders; or, third, itis a tax
upon .the capital stock.of the bank, which is a new species
of property, and one of the fruits of the contract. The intention ivas to tax the franchise; to consider the banks as
licensed persons; and, in common with other licensed persons, to compel them to pay anannual stipend for the privileges they enjoy. -Suppose the Providence Bank had paid
fifty thousand dollars for these privileges,, at the tifne of
receiving their. charter, could it be compelled to pay for them
again'! How does it alter the case,- that the payment was
in benefits of another kind, which the -state-acknowledge to
have received . Go farther: suppose this franchise to have
been a free gift, can payment be subsequently demanded!
But whether the act of 1822 is ,. tax upon the privileges of
the banks, or upon their property, or a duty or requisition
upon them as licensed persons, will not essentially vary the
qaestion; inasmuch as it must be conceded, on all hands, that
it involves the power to destroy all their beneficial rights.
This was one of the points expressly decided in M'Culloch's'
case. If the state has jurisdiction-over the subject matter;
if it. can select its own contract, or the privileges or property
conferred by its own contract, and impose a specific duty
upon them, and them alone; it can destroy those privileges,
because it must necessarily be the sole judge of the amount.
Although at present the expenses of the state are small, yet,
in cases of war, internal commotions, or the happening of
any other causes which would increase our expenditures, it
will probably.be thought expedient and just that the banks
should contribute the same proportion then as now. If it
is deemed legal and honest to load them with one-third of
all, the burthens of government now ; why will it not be legal
and just then'? Nay, why not one h alf,'or three-quarters, or
the whole 'If this court decide this tax to be constitutional,
must it not decide that a requisition of one half of the income of the capital stock Will be constitutional'
In whatever point of view, therefore, this at is considered, it involves
the power, and, as we shall directly show, the legal power,

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Providence Bank vs. Billings and Pittman.]

the legal right to destroy the contract to which the state is
a party.
An examination of the constitution of the United States
will show that this is the necessary result. . The clause belonging to this subject is, "that no state shall pass any law
impairing the obligation of contracts.","
It intended to exclude
- "No state shall pass any law!"
all -laws having that effect. It made no exception in -favour
of law's imposing taxes; but it intended, that the taxing
power, like all other -powers, should be so exercised, as not
to impair the obligation of contracts- What use would
there have been in the prohibition, if it -had left the state
free as to one of its powers!. Would not such freedom have
destroyed the whole effect of the- provi.sion .
But further: no state shall pass any law "impairing the
obligation .of contracts." . It does not confine itself to the
direct and express, but extends to all the implied obligations.
It also extends to all contracts ; those to which a state is a
party, as well as the contracts of individuals.
"No state. shall pass any law impairing the obligation of
contracts!" Does this prohibit the power of impairing contracts, or the exercise of that power!9 It must be remembered that this, and all the other prohibitions against th;
states, are addressed not to natural persons, possessing physical powers, but to artificial persons, possessing legal p6wers. A prohibition not to steal leaves the natural person
with the physical power of violating the injunction: but does
it not destroy the legal power?4 The powers of the states
are all legal powers. They have no physical or natural
powers. A prohibition, therefore, against the exercise of a:
legal power, is an annihilation of the power itself; and any
law so dependent upon the existence of such a power, or so
6losely connected with it as to riender it practically impossible to.sustain the law, without submitting to the exercise
of the power, must be an unconstitutional law.
Apply this principle to the-present case. The state has
no power to impair its own contract. It cannot resume the
charter: it cannot prohibit banking busine-qs : it cannot take
all the income of the capital. It will be agreed that no such
Vot.. IV.-3 R

SUPREME 'COURT.
[Providence Bank vs. Billings and Pittman.]

power can be exercised.. How then can it exist . How can
a legal power exist.which it is unlawful to use, or a legal
right which cannot be exercised'q Physical powers may exist, the-action of which is prohibited: but legal powers
exist.only in aciion. They are contemplated only with a
view to their exercise. A legal power is a right to do cer.tain things. A power to destroy the rights of the banks is,
therefore, equivalnt to the actual destruction of them; because a power-to destroy is a legal right to destroy. Considered in relation to its citizens, all the powers of sovereignty are legal rights.
We say, that if it is admitted that the charter is a contract,
the whole controversy, is admitted; because every contract
.necessarily excludes all power in either of the parties to
destroy the rights 'Which vest under it. A tax. upon the
franchise is a tax upon the contract itself. The law implies
a right in the-states to tax the banks; that is, the property of
the banks; but it does not imply a right.to destroy. The
state of Rhode Island has contracted not to tax the Blackstone canal. The state of 'NewJersey contracted, in the
case of New Jersey vs. Wilson, not to tax certain lands. The
exemption of that canal and those lands is a privilege or
franchise. Would a tax upon that privilege be valid'?
Would it not violate the spirit of the contract? Would it
The terms of the contract exempted
not be mere evasion'
the lands from taxation; but would not that contract have
been rendered of no value, if, instead of taxing the lands,
they had taxed the privilege or exemption conferred by that
contract
We contend then that the power ih question is necessarily
excluded; because'it is inconsistent with the main and leading intention of the parties, which was to make a contract,
and to bind themselves by it.
How can that be constitutional, which necessarily entails
consequences that are prohibited. by the constitutiop . How
can a law which, beyond all human control, arms the legislature with .the legal right of doing what the constitution
prohibits their doing; be constitutional 9 Nay, worse : 'Which
puts them in the actual'possession of a power, the very ex-

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Providence Bank vs, Billings and Pittman.]

istence of which is-a violation of the contract. How can the legislature legislate themselves into the possession of a
power, not only not granted, but expressly withheld by the
people 9
But a law involving the power to destroy, is equivalent to
a law which actually does destroy, for another reason. The
constitution intended not only that a law which -actually impairs a contract should be void, but it also intended that
this court should possess and -exercise the power of decla-ring it void.
The act of 1822, if admitted to be valid, will deprive thiscourt of*that power. If the subject. dnd the' mode of taxation are admitted to be constitutional, the .amount rests in
the discretion .of the legislature. The'court must submit
to any amount that may be imposed. Their power to protect the rights of the individual- is at, an end, 'the moment
this law is declared to be valid. That power constitutes the
remedy of the banks. This law takes from the banks all
right to appeal to this court for relief, and all power in the
court to extend that relief. Can this court surrender that
power 9 Are not all its legal powers legal. duties ? --Is this
court to '6bey the constitution, qnd retain -the power' of declaring void a law which the state may' pass, destroying the'
banks; or to obey the act of 1822, which deprives them' of
that power . Is it to rest with the legislature of Rhode
Island to say whether an individual shall retain'a constitutional remedy, and this court a constitutional power . - Isit
for the state, against whom this temedy and this power were
provided, to legislate 'the other party out of them! *This
remedy and this power are the constitutional barriers for the
protection of private rights; and an attack upon the outposts
is as undisguised war as upon the constitution itself.
An important question in the case remains yet to be considered. -Does not the contract of 1791 afford a necessary
implication of an exemption from all modes of taxation
which involve the power to destroy . That may be said to be
implied, which, from a fair construction of all parts of an
instrument, appears to have been the probable intention of

SUPREME COURT.
[Providence Bank vs. Billings and Pittman.]

the parties. That is necessarily implied, without. which the
obvious and main intention of the parties would be defeated.
Implications bear ,the same relation to the express provisions of a contract, that circumstantial does to positive evidence. Perhaps nothing short of a necessary implication
would create a total exemption from the taxing. power. A
fair and ordinary implication would be sufficient to qualify
that power, by confining it to the usual modes.
In the present case, we shall attempt to show thaf there
is a necessary implication that the state should neither exercise nor p.bssess the power of destroying any of the rights
conferred by the contract. We do not confine the proposition to one mode of destroying those rights ;but we mean to
contend that all modes in which sovereign power can exert
itself were necessarily excluded. The.taxing power is und6ubtedly of. vital importance, though not more so than
many others. It is indispensable.to the support of government, and so are nearly all the powers which sovereignty
usually exercises.
The power to constitute property, or to give to men the
dofninion over external objects.; -the power to transmit that
dominion from hand to hand, by deeds, wills, -descent, and,
the various other modes ; is surely as necessary a power as
any other can be. The' one creates property ; the taxing
power operates upon it after it is created.
I The attempt to give to the taxing
power an importancebelonging to no other sovereign, power, is reviving the dis.
pute of the relative importance of the stomach and the lungs
to animal life.
-before any aid, however, can be derived from the. supposed importance of the taxing power, it must be shown
that this mode of exerting it is essential to the state. How
can it be of vital importance to government to possess the
power to tax the money of one man, without at the same
time taxing the money of others,1How can'the existence
of goiernment depend oil its power to destroy its contracts ?
There is nothing, then, growing out of the peculiar importance of the power in question, which will rebut any presumption of an exemption from its exercise.

JANUARY TERM 1830.

533

[Providence Bank vs. Billings and Pittman.]

Is the justice or fairness of this proceeding so very urgent.1 Is the equity of imposing one-third of all'the expenses of'the state' on the banks of such a nature, as to induce us to believe that the parties probably had it in their
minds? Suppose the stockholders of the Providence bank
had been informed, in 1791, before they had advanced their
money, that, instead of peculiar advantages, they were to be
subjected to peculiar burthens: would they have accepted
their charterq Suppose they had been informed that, instead
of "the long established usage of uniform taxes, sovereignty
intended to call up one of .its dormant powers, and spend its
whole force upon their money-and their money alone:
would they have parted with the money ? Did they mean
or expect to pay a new consideration, differing from the one
specified in the charter, and which the state acknowledged
to have received ? No very strong equity, therefore, and
no pressing necessity, require the exercise. or the existence.
of such a power. But, such a power is necessarily excluded,
because it. is inconsistent with the main and leading intention of the parties; and, it'Is inconsistent with the legal effect of h grant..
There is another mode by which it may be shown that the
law impairs the contract, and that is, by ascertaining its legal
effect. While upon this point, it inay be expedient to notice
an argument on the opposite side, which we have reason' to
believe has had some effect, even on professional minds. It
is this: Admitting that the charter' is a contract ; that it
binds the parties; that it confers legal rights on one party
and imposes legal obligations on the other: yet, that those
legal rights are like the legal rights of all other persons,
subject to the sovereignty of.the state, and consequently,
subject to taxation ; thati in fact, the only difference between
legal rights conferred by one individual upbn another -individual, and by a state upon an individual, is a difference of
parties ; that they are legal rights, when conveyed by an
individual, and can be no more, when conveyed by' the state;
that if specific taxation is not inconsistent with legal rights
conveyed.by an individnal, it is not inconsistent with legal

SUPREME COURT.
[ProvidenceL Bank vs. Billihgs and Pittman.]

rights conveyed by the 'state ; and that, if the contract is not
violated in the one case, it is not violated in the other.
This popular argument must be answered, and satigfactorily answered, or the case is against us. One inoment's consideration of the legal effect of a grant will shoe/ the fallacy
of this view of the-subject, which supposes that the legal
right to an acre of land, or to any other property or privilege,
is not only of the same nature, but of the same extent, when
conveyed by an individual, as when conveyed by a sovereign;
whereas, in all cases of unrestricted grants, the extent of the
legal rights of the grantee depends, mainly, if not entirely,
on the extent of the legal rights-of the grantor. An unrestricted grant passes to the grantee, or extinguishes all the
grantor's interest in and power over the sibject which. are
inconsistent with the right intended to be granted. "A
grant," say this court, in Fletcher vs. Peck., "is, in its very
nature, an extinguishment of all the rights of the grantor,
and implies an obligation not to re-assert that right."
It is no matter who the granting party is, or what he is;
no matter in what capacity he acts; no matter how limited or
how extensive is his interest or his power: all his power and all
his interest, so far as they do not consist with the rights granted,
are either t ransferred or extinguished by the grant. If he is
an individual, individual interest and individual power are
tiansferred or extinguished. If a corporation, corporate interests and -corporate powers. And, if a sovereign, sovereign
interests and sovereign powers.
The question then arises, whether it can' b6 shown that
such a tax' is necessary 9 Can it even be shown to be
just 9 What necessity, or what justice, can require the
money of onc class of men to bear all the burthens of the
state 9 Other governments exist without such odious measures., Even Rhode Island did not discover the necessity of
resorting.to them, until 1822. How pressing must that necessity be, which it required two hundred years to discover!
The first case before this court was a direct tax upon the operations of the Bank of the.United States within the state of
Maryland: and the second, a tax by the -City Council of
Charleston upon the six and seven per cent stocks of the
United States.

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Providence Bank vs. Billings and Pittman.]

The same principle prevailed in. both cases. The first
was a unanimous, the second a divided opinion; but divided
upon the question whether the tax was an income or a specific tax. The leading principle established by M'Culloch's
case, and confirmed by the case of the City Council, is this:
that the constitution of the United States, having conferred
upon the general government certain enumerated and specific powers, conferred'all the eneans necessary to the execution of those powers: that the incorporation of a bank was a
necessary and proper instru ment of fiscal oper.tions ; that
the law establishing the bank being a law authorised by the
constitution, was.supreme ; and that the unavoidable consequence of that supremacy was, that no state could pass any
law conflicting with it; and, that as the aot of the state of
Maryland imposing the tax involved the power oA destroying
the bank, it was inconsistent with the supremacy of the law
establishing the bank.
To suppose that the Bank of the United States was declared by the court to be exempted from the action of state
legislation, because it was the Bank of the United States, or
because it was a means of power in the hands of the general
government; would be taking but a narrow view of the prin..
ciple of M'Culloch's case. That a bank was a necessary and
proper instrument of power, constituted but a subordinate
part of the splendid argument employed on that memorable
occasion. It was necessary to take a step much farther -in
advance; to occupy mueh higher ground ; to show, that,
being a necessary instrument of power, -the constitution
intended to protect it from state legislation. Unless that
ground had been occupied, there would have been an end
to the bank. The whole case turned upon the intention of
the constitution..
The fact of its being an authorized means in the hands of
the general government was used as an argument to show
that it.was intended to-be placed beyond the reach of the
states. It was the protection afforded to these means, by
the constitution; anl not the character or inherent virtue.of
the means themselves, that called out the power and firmness
of the court. Neither the bank nor the custom house, the

SUPREME COURT.
[Providence Bank vs. Billings and Pittman.'

navy or the army, could plead sufficient merit of their own;
but it was because ihey'were sheltered behind the constitution, that state legislation could not reach.them.
Having established the proposition that the constitution
had impliedly prohibited the states'from interfering with the
machinery of the general government; the court proceeded
to show that the act of .the state of Maryland involved the
power of destroying what the states had no.power to destroy.
Not that the act, of itself, actually did or would destroy, but
that it involved the power of destroying. We, therefore,
repeat the assertion, that it was not because the Bank of the
United States was an instrument of government, but because
it was.a prohibited subject, that the court declared the act
of Maryland to be an unconstitutional act. The great principle, is this: because the constitution will not permit a stqte.
to destroy; it will not permit a law involving the power to
destroy. In order to show that the ease turned entirely on
that point, let us suppose that the, court had arrived to the
conclusion that the bank was an authorised instrument of
goveroment; but that it was not the intention of the con-'
stitution to prohibit the states from interfering with those instruments: would it not have been necessary to have decided
that the Maryland act was constitutional 9 Of what importance was it that the bank was an authorized means of power,
other than this, that it afforded a key to the meaning of the
constitution
If the bank'was a legitimate and proper instrument of power, then the. constitution intended toprotect
it. If not, then no protection was intended. The question,
whether it was a necessary and' proper.means, was auxiliary
to the great question, whether the constitution intended to
shelter it; and when'the court arrived to the conclusion. ihat
such protection was intended, they interfered not in behalf
of 'the bank, but in behalf of'the sanctuary to'which. it,
had
fled. They decided against the tax; because the subject had:
been placed beyond the power of the states, by the consti'tution. They decided, not on account of the subject, but
on account of the power that protected it; they decided that
a prohibition against destruction was a prohibition against
a law involving the power of destruction. The case of the

JANUARY TERM 1830.

537

[Providence Bank us. Billings and Pitt an.]

Providence Bank starts very far in advance of the Bank of
the United States. It is not necessary to resort to implication to prove that the rights of the f6rmer are protected by
the constitution. There is an express clause to that effect,
and the court will not forget that it is the prohibition, and
not the important or unimportant subject that stands behind
it, that constitutes the shield against'hostile legislation.
"No state shall enter into any treaty, alliance, or confederation, grant letters of marque and reprisal, coin money,
emit bills of credit, make any thing but gold and silver coin
a tender in-payment of debts, pass .any bill of attainder, ex
post facto law, or law impairing the obligation of contracts."
"No state shall, without the consent of congress, ly any
imposts, or duties on imports and exportsi lay any duty of
tonnage, keep troops or ships of war in time of peace, enter
into any agreement or compact with another state, or with a
foreign power, or engage in war,. unless actually invaded,
or in such imminent danger as will not admit of delay."
To the framers of the constitution, some of the subjects
here prohibited probably appeared to be more important
than others. They probably thought it more important to
deprive the states of the power of forming alliances with
foreign nations, than of emitting bills of credit. The exercise of the one power by the states would merely incommode the general government: the exercise of the other.
endanger its very existence: Yet are ndt these subjects,
judicially, of equal importance '.Equally important because
equally prohibited. Are not all the prohibited subjects of
equal importance, and have the states any more power to
violate one prohibition than another 9.
It may be said that the Bank of the United States was established by a law of the general government; and that it
was the supremacy of the law which rendered all conflicting
laws of the states inoperative. The supremacy of the law
was a reason, and a Conclusive reason, to induce the court
to imply a prohibition. It was not the sujremacy of the law,
but the implied .constitutional prohibition, which induced
the court to protect the bank. The: rights conferred upon
the Bank of the United States. by its charter, are inviolable
VOL. IV.-3 S

SUPREME COURT.
[Providence Bank vs. Billings and Pittman.]

and supreme, as regards all the states.- Are not the rights
of the Providence Bank, and the law which conferred those
rights, inviolable and supreme as regards Rhode Island!. Is
not that law a contract; those rights the fruit of that contract!
What constitutes the supremacy of a law in regard to the
states, if it is not their total want of power to interfere with
its regular operation, or to destroy -the rights which it confers!. Can the legislature of Rhode Island repeal the law
incorporating the Providence Bank? Can they alter any of
its essential provisions?. Is it not supreme, or, in homelier
English, above their reach!
The only difference between
the.law*incorporatirig the Bank of the United States and the
law incorporating the Providence Bank, as regards their
character of supremacy, is, that the 'former, is supreme as
regards all the states, the latter as regards Rhode Island
only. The supremacy of both originates in-contract. The
fundamental contract of the union, or the constituion, imparts.supremacy to the laws of the union, and binds. all the
states. The contract with thd Providence Bank imparts supremacy-to all the rights which it confers, and binds one of
the states. The sphere of action is more limited, and the
parties less numerous in the one case than in the other, and
that is the only substantial difference letween them.
To the legislature, say the cohrt, in Fletcher v. Peck, all
legislative power belongs. But the question, whether the
act of transferring the property of an individual to the public
be in the nature of the legislative-power, is. well worthy of
serious reflection. This language was used in relation to
a law of Georgia, attempting to resume the subject of its
own grants. Is it not equally "applicable to the case before
the court? -The income of the capitals of the banks. is the
subject of the grants in this case; land the subject of the*
grant in that. If a state cannot resume. one subject- of its
grant, can it another! If it cannot'resume it directly, ca'n
it indirectly ? Is there any difference between a direct and
a consequential interference with'e prohibited subject? The
uniform language of this court is in the negative. The
warmest advocate for state power will find it difficult to discover any principle from which it can be implied, that one

JANUARY TERM 180.

089

[Providence Bank vx.Billng&and-Pittman.]

party to a contract reserves to himselfthe power of ddstroying all the'rights conferred by--the- contract..
In relatior to individual parties under the law, Ri 'if
1-be
conceded that no such power can exist. -In relation to soveieign parties under the constitution, idnot the rule necessarily tile same!q Is not the dominion' of the constitution
over.the states the same, as to its. nature and extent, as that
of the law over individuals 9 If, in a contract, between individuals, no illegal power can be impl;' d, iri
a contract with
a sovereign can any uncoqstitufioiial- pdwer be. -implied 'By b~coming a party to a contract, a state imposes iuporl itself
additional obligations and additional duties. To-sdppose
that these dutieg and these- obligatio'ns' do' not qualify its
rights, is tantamount, to .denying that' thejy are obligations
and duties. To impose upon an -individual,-r a sovereign,
an obligation, without an equivalent limitation' of' its legal
a.
oral power, is as impossible, as to produce an 'effect
without a cause. 'What is an.obligation. but ii limiiation -of
previous power? What is a duty-,butt.the tbaiidonment of
some corresponding right 9
The proposition, that a stater hs the same poer. aver the
rights conferred: by it6 owni contract- as over'all other legal.
rights,' is a denial that any obligation is created by its cdntract; for, if it creates- aoy 'obligation, 'that obligation does
notexist in relation to-the legal rights 'of.-thfso with whom
the state has made no confract.' Th6 necessary-consequenie
is, that a limitation of state authority, to -the extikt of this
superadded obligation, must- be create. -and""a limitation
Which'does not exist inrelation .to the legal rights of others.
Mr I-aziard, for the defendants.
An act of the legislatur'e of Rhode Island, passed in 1191)
incorporating the Providerice Bank, is' .said t6 -be*acontract
between the legislature and that bankl:*nd it is cintended,
that a'general lawpassed by the legisliture iithe year 1822,
and the acts in amendment thereof, "imposing 'a duty upon
.licensed persons and others, 'and upon bodies, corporate,
within that state," are laws, imp airing-the obligation of that
contract, and violating, the contituti6n of the United States.
Whether th,. be so or not depends upon the question,

SUPREME COURT.
[Providence Bank vs. Billings and Pittman,]

Whether there is any thing in the act incorporating the
Providence Bank which exempts that bank from the taxing
power of the state 9 Or whether the corporate character of
the bank exempts its operations from the action of the state
authority !.
If the general assembly, by the incorporating act of 1791,
or by the acts in addition thereto, did bind the state to exempt this corporation, ini perpetuity, from the taxing power
of the state, the obligation must either be expressed in those
acts, or must be clearly implied from the terms of them; or
the exemption must be one of the. .necessary incidents or
immunities of a corporation.
It appears, by the preamble to tife charter, that about a
year 'hfter this bank had been established, its president and
directors petitioned the general assembly for an act of incorporation,. The prayer of the petition was granted, and
an act passed in conformity'to it. The act contains a detail
o' the-ordinary properties and capacities of a corporation;
such as are alike incident to every corporation of 'whatever
descriltion, and as would appertain to, and-be exercised by
it, whether expressly granted or not. The act further approires of the private regulations adopted by the company.;
itexempts the several st6ckholders from personal liability,
beyond the amount of. their respective shares of stock. It
gives to -the.company an exclusive, suminay, legal proces
for the collection of debts du6-to them; and lastly, it makes
provision for securing the bills of the bank from forgery.
The three acts in "amendment make some improvement in
the bank process, as it is called; empower the directors to
fill yacancies, and provide that the shares of the stockholders shall be held pledged to the bank for -their debtfr
due to it.
In these provisions (which are the whole contents of the
bank charter) there is no express grant -of the exemption
claimed, ' and I am hot able to find any thing in them, from
which the most remote inference can be drawn, of an intention, on the- part of the legislature, to make such a grant.
What was-granted, and intended to be granted, has no connexion with what is now claimed as part of-the grant. 'All

JANUARY TCERM 1830.
[Providence Bank vs. Billings and Pittman.]

that was done by the legislature, was to convert a banking
co-partnersip into a body politic; and their having done
this does not warrant the inference that they meant to make
to that coripany a further donation either of money or immunities, oth than such as necessarily appertains to all
corporate bodies. If there is any thing in that charter from
which such an inference can fairly be drawn, it is to be
shown by the plaintiffs.
Is then an exemption from the taxing power of the state
a necessary incident of this corporation 9 If it is, it must
be an incident of all corporations of every description; for
so far as this exemption is the question, there is nothing to
distinguish a banking corporation from any-other; but if a
distinction was to be made, it would not be in faVour of
banks, which, being moneyed, and money-making institu- 
tjons, might be considered as the most appropriate objects'
of taxation.
It is said by the writers on the subject of corporations,
that such capacities and qualities as are necessary to the
creation and legal being of a corporation, and- such only,
are incidents of the corporation. But it cannot be said that
an exemption from taxes is necessary to the existence of a
corporation, especially a moneyed corporation. .A corporation is as competent to pay duties imposed upon it as brokers, or retailers; or distillers, or auctioneers, or any other
individuals or companies of any other trade, craft, or profession; and its being required to pay them is, in no way,
inconsistent with its corporate existence, 'or its corporate
character. Such duties have in fact been.. imposed upon
them, (the banking companies,) by the government of tbe
union; and' have been for many years, and still are imposed
upon them by many of the states, and no difficulty has been
experienced in the collection of them. It is moreover admitted, that when the power of taxing is expressly reserved
in the charters of banks, they may cousistently be taxed.
If this be so, there is nothing in the power of taxing which
is inconsistent with the existence of such corporations, or
with the full enjoyment of their franchises. It is plaii,
therefore, that an exemption from taxes is' not one of the

SUPREME COURT.
[Providence Bank vs. Billings and Pittman.]

necessary incidents or immunities of such a corporation.
This being the case, and it being equally plain (as has al'ready been shown) that the charter itself of the Providence
Bank contains no express or implied relinquishment, on the
part of the state, of the 'power of taxing; it seems to follow,'that the acts of the legislature of Rhode Island, "imposing a d6ty upon, licensed persons and others, and upon
bodies corporate within that state," do not impair the obli-

gation of any contract of the state with the, plaintiffs, nor
violate the constitution of the United States.
One of the breaches of contract with which the legislature of Rhode Island is charged by plaintiffs, is thus stated
by them : their charter, they say, grants, and secures to them
for ever, "all the profits arising from. the empl6yment of
their capital in banking business-." And this-grant, they
cbntend,is impaired by the law of 1822, imposing a tax on
the banks. The banks have, no doubt, a perfect right to
all the profits to be- derived from the corporate franchises
granted to them. But no better right, surely,.than other
companies or individuals have -to all the profits of their business, or,to their .estates, real and personal, and all the
rents and income of them. -.And, it has not yet been discovered that the exercise of the taxing power upon those subjects was inconsistent with the full enjoyment. of those
rights.
The power to tax banks for their-corpoate property, and
totax the stockholders for- their stock, is not denied. .But
it issaid that this is a tax .upon the franchise; a tax upon
the thing granted. The law speaks for itself. It imposes a
dutyupon the several banks; equal.to one-eighth of one per
cent of the amount of the capital stocks of each actually
paid in. If this i a duty on the franchises; why not ,' That
those franchises are. property,' and valuable propetty, we
know. Corporate franchises arethus',described by Mi Juslice Story, in the Dartmouth College case, 4 Wheat. 700.
AThey are, properly speaking, legal- estates, vested in the
e.rporation itself as soon as it is- in esse. They are not
mere legal powers granted to the corporation, bdt powers
ccoupled with an interest. The property of the corporation

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Providence Bank vs. Billings and Pittman.]

vests upon the possession of its franchises. Whatever may
be thought of the corporators,.it cannot be denied that the
corporation has a legal interest in them." He speaks of
them elsewhere, in the same case, as "valuable hereditaments or property." .And says, "that a grant of them is not
distinguishable, in point of principle, from a grant of any
other property." And these remarksiwere made in reference
even to eleemosynary corporations; and corporations for
literary purposes; and apply much more forcibly to these
trading or moneyed corporations..
The opening counsel. will recollect that on6 of these
bank charters was sold in Rhode Island, a few years' ago,
for cc large sum of money, by a cbmpany to whom it
had been granted several years before, but who had made
no use of it. The plaintiffs tell us themselves that their
franchises are.valuable; and their stock sells for from
fifteen to twenty-five per cent advance. And well may
it be so. Their interest money is compounded every
sixty days: and that too on loans of mere paper bills,
which carry no interest. For, as the bills of the banks constitute the whole of the circulating medium; they gain,
gratuitously, the interest on-so much of. their paper as is
constantly absorbed in circulation :-the amount of which
we know is immense.
It was the opinion of Mr Justice Blackstone, and the
soundness of that opinion lias been fully tested by the experience of statesmen, that the revenues of -a state may be
derived from d-uties and inposts on objects prudently selected, with much less expense and bu-rden to thb community,
than from direct taxation. What part is it, of the revenues
of the United States, that is.derived from the latter source q
They have never resorted to direct taxation but on the most
pressing occasions, nor until the collection from indirect
taxes had proved inadequate to the exigencies of government. From the-year 1791 to 1798, and again from 1813
to 1815, laws were passed by congress laying duties on
various commodities and trades. But the first diirect tax
was not laid until 1798, and the second and last not until
1815. Among the objects then thought most appropriate
for taxing, all incorporated banks, as well as private bankers,

544

SUPREME COURT.
[Providence Bank -s. Billings and Pittman.]

banking companies and money dealers, were selected for
duties,; and those duties were regularly and readily paid,
without any complaint from- the banks of their bcing incompatible with their corporate existence, or their corporate rights.
There is no weight in the objection that the duty does
not bear equally upon the whole community. It is not possible that taxes should be made to bear equally upon every
member of the community, so as to draw from each one
precisely in proportion to his property.
Nor, if this were practicable, would it be a wise or salutary system of taxation. It is certainly wiser and better to
draw revenue from surplus income, than from the immediate products of labour and industry; from commodities and
trades which administer to the ph asures or the vices of men,
from the luxuries and superfluities, than from the necessaries -f life. And thus the United States government began
with duties on distilled spirits, on stills, on* vendors of
wines and spirits, on various articles of luxury, and- on
banks ;and, as long 'as possible, avoided direct taxes and
duties. on the more necessary and iseful articles, such as
household furniture, farming utensils, and fhe various necessary articles of domestic manufacture.
The true' question in this case is, whether the law complained of is a law impairing the obligation of a contract
in the sense those words bear in the constitution of the
United States. The power of taxation is "an incident of
sovereignty :" and the government in, whom it resides is
alone competen.1, within its own jurisdiction, to judge and
determine how, in what manner, and. upon what objects
that power shall be exercised. "That the power of taxation
is- one of vital importance," said the chief justice of this
*court, in delivering the opinion of the court in M'Culloch's
case, "that it is retained by. the states; that it is not
abridged by-the grant of a similar power to the government
of the union,, that it is to be concurrently exercised by the
two governments ; are truths which have never been denied" 4 Wheat. 425. And-again, in the same case, "it 'is
admitted that the power of taxing the people and their pro-

JANUARY TERM

O830.

[Providence Bank vs. Billings. and Pittman.]

perty is essential to the very existence of government, and.
may be legitimately exercised on the objects to which it is
applicable, to the utmost extent to which the government
may chose to carry it. The only security against the abuse
of this power is found in the structure of the government
itself. In imposing-a tax, the legislature acts upon its constituents. This is, ingenerali a sufficient security against
erroneous and oppressive taxation." 4 Wheat. 428.
It is admitted that land, or other property, granted by
the state, becomes liable to taxes in the hands of the grantees: and that there is no distinction, in point of principle,
between a grant of corporate franchises, and a grant of land,
or any other property, is conclusively shown by Mr Justice Story, in the Dartmouth College case. 4 Wheat. 684.
But land, it is said, exists, and is taxable before the graint.
It exists, to be sure; but that circumstance is of no importance: since, as property of the state, it is not taxed, nor is
taxable, until granted, any more than ungranted franeHises
are taxable. It may be said, that, as corporate franchises
take their existence only from the grant of them, the legislature can annex to'the grant whatever conditions or exemptions they please. If this. were true, it would only show
that the legislature has power to. grant an exemption from
taxes in such cases as it may think .proper; not -that such
exemption can be claimed when not granted. As these
franchises, are, or may be valuable property ; the state has
an interest in the grants of them, and in the exercise of the
taxing and other legislative powers over them, when they
are granted, do exist, and are prQperty; as much as it has
in the case of any other grants of any other property.
The doctrine contended for by the plaintiffs umounts
fully to this, that the powers of legislation must not' be exercised, nay, must be annihilated, because they are liable to
be abused. True, they would have this doctrine applied
will hardly be conceded to
only in their own case; but it.
urge the claim, that they
strenuously
them, though they so
for
"their franchises than the
security
have a right to better
their privileges. But.
for
have
community
the
of
rest
VoL. IV.-3 T

. StUPREM
ti .vi

COURT.

nce Bankrs. BilUgsand Piftan.]

even if. we adopt the plaintiff's application of the doerine; whera Wiil it lead and land us.I The power to
regulate th6 public, revenue; to fix the rate of itterpst;
,to. grant charters of incorpora'tion ; -and to raise 'revenu9
by taxation, are branclies and incidents of that portion.
of- sovereigniy still retained. by the states : , and are nbsasftry- to the very gxistence of government. But, -accordingto the plaintiffs,. all these powers are restrainedand
o.ontrolled iffnot surrendered, by the granting pf an ordinary
act of incorporati6 to a private trading company; for, if the
4eislature has power to regulate the currency, it may say
-that bank bills shall not make part of. it;.it.May.saythat no
bank billsshall. issue of.a denomination lower..'than. one
thousand Uollars, or higher than ohe dollar. If it-can fiz the'
ra~twof'interest, it may deprive the banks of their profits; if
it can'create other bnnks at pleasure, it may fender those
altedy granted of no value; if it can tax the sfiaresof stock
.i, the bands of. stockholders, iX.may effectually break. up
-

the business.- They p.rTf6ss not, to carry their doctrine so
far: they concede the exercise. of suchipowers-.to the -state;
tIt,
onfcessions made "to save. a docfrine'from:its- own -tendenaies-to absurdity, do not alter the piindiple. The. doctrine itselfdoes go the whole-'length pointed out. The
geri.eral legislative powers, specified do. involve in them .the

power-of reduding the profits of the .banks, and of affecting
their. 6perations and their charters, as fully as guch a power
is-involved in the power of taxing.
The creation of a body politic is' an exercise of legislative-power; but-it does not imply the relinquishment of any
9ther. portion of legislative power. The only obligation
which 'the government imposes upon itself is, not unjustly
and arbitrarily .to defeat the grant contained-in the charter:
but, it has no more right to defeat any other legal grant,
than it-has to defeat its own; and, no law which would, not

inoair the obligation- of a contract between individualg,, .
wold imp'air it if the state was one of the contracting par-

ties. It makes no difference that individuals cannot grant
franchi.'es; for it is already clearly shown, that, in principle,

there is no differencebetveen grants offranchises and grants

JANUARY TERM 1830.

547

[Providence1Bink vs. Bilfdings and Pittman.j

or"bther.property. It js:no't wholesome doctrine for private
corporations to imbibe, that they are independent of the
powor that creatbs them; and that they shall be protected in
-setting it at defiance." Not only -are their franchises- and
other property subject to the taxing power of states ;.but, so
far as the pu'blic interest&, are affected hy the action of a
corporation, so far those operations must be under thb contrbl of government, whose province and paramount duty it
is to provide for the public welfare.. Thus, should the public
godd require the suppression of a paper currency, certainly
thd government would have a right to suppress it, although,
in doing so, they'would desiroy the banks whose paper composes that currency. It will not do to say that a chartered
military company.m'ay not be put down, or, that a chartered
company engaged in supplying a city with water, or any
such corporations, may-not he'suppressed, if the government
shbuld see gobd cause for suppressing ihem :,and, in point
of character, there is no difference between' those corporations. and banking corporations whose paper bills -constitute the public m~oney currency of the country. In the case
of the Corporation of the Protestant Episcopal Church vs. The
City ofNew York, decided by the supreme court of the state
of New York, and reported in 7 Cowen, 584; and in a similar
case, of another church congregation against that city, reported in 5 Cowen, 538, it was decided; that a bye-law of the city,
forbidding the interment-of the dead in the cemeteries and
grounds appertaining to the churches, was valid and constitutional, although "those-grounds had been granted by the city
itselffor that express use, and the grants contained covenants
for quiet enjoyment, and although certain private rights and
pecuniary interests of individuals were cut off by that law: and
It was decided 'in those cases, that the city corporation could
not, by its agreement, abridge its legislative powers. In the
case ofBrown vs. The Penobscot Bank, 8 Mass. 445, it was decided that a law, imposing a heavy-penalty upon banks which
did not punctually redeem their bills, was valid; and in
.Foster vs. The Essex Bank, 16 Mass. 128, a law was decided
kto be valid, which, for the purpose of giving time for remedies against a bank prolonged itscorporat6 existence, against

SUPREME COURT.
[Providence Bank vs. Billings and Pittman.]

its wishes, for thg space of three years after its charter had
expired.
which
There is another question, a most important one,
That
present.
must always present itself in a case like the
grant
would,
it
if
question is, whether any legislature can,
or surrender any portion of that power of which sovereignty
the exitself'consists '. No one can entertain a doubt that
grants
alLsuch
mdke
to
isting legislature must have full power
such
all
into
enter
to
of public lands or other property ; and
.in
valid
and
binding
be
to
contracts, as this court declared
other
and
Taylor,
vs.
Terrett
the cases of Fletcher vs. Peck,
similar cases.. But such grants and contracts, it appears,
perpetuity, of a
are very different 'from an alienation, in
in another
whichb,
;
state
the
of
portion of the taxing power
sovereignty,"
Of
incident
"an
be
to
case, this court declared
of government."
and "essential to the existence
There are certain powers which are inherent in the people,
and cannot be alienated, even by the people themselves,
much less by their representatives, to whom those powers
exare entrusted for a time; not to be annihilated, but to be
ercised by them, until other representatives shall be appointsell
ed in their places. The present generation of men may
bind
or
or bind themselves to servitude ; but they cannot sell
their posterity.
by a
It is immaterial whether the legislature is restrained
conthe
of
written constitution or not. The absolute iights
may
they
stituents are not to be encroached upon, because
insuch
by
not think it becessary to attempt to guard'them
the.
answer
ly
struments, which, after alld but very indifferent
pu; pose for which they are intended ; but on the contrary
are too often made use of, by false and forced constructions,
tojustify the assumption of powers which the people never
rdeant to grant.
and
The power of self government' isr a power absolute
distinct
exist
cannot
inherent in tho people. But that power
from the power of taxation. If the legislature can exempt,
all
for ever, all corporations from taxes; -they can exempt
other
any
of
all
or
mnerchants, all farmers, all mariufacturers,
can cut
classes of the community. And, in this way, they

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Providence 'Dank vs. Billings and Pittman.]

off the sotiuces of future revenue; and can fasten and. entail
for ever the whole burthen'of government upon any portion
of the people they please.
In the argument, the sentiments frequently expressed by
this court, and by- different members of it, on various occasions, seem to have been forgotten. "The question whether
a law be void for its repugnance to. the constitution,"'said
the chief justice of this court, in the case of Fletcher vs.
Peck, "is at all times a question of great delicacy; which
ought seldom, if ever, to be decided in the affirmative, in a
doubtful case." "The opposition between the constitution
and the law should be such, that the judge feels a clear and
strong, conviction of their incompatibility with each other."
And in the Dartmouth College case, 4 Wheat. 125, "on more
than one occasion the court has .expressed the cautious circumspection with which it approaches the consideration of
such questions : and has declared that in no doubtful case
would it pronounce-a fegislative act to be contrary to the
constitution." In Calder vs. Bull, 3 DalI. 386, it is said;
by 'the late Mr Justice Chase, "if ever I exercise the
jurisdiction, I will never decide any law to be void but in a
very clear case." And by the late Mr Justice Iredell, in
the same case: "the court will never resort to that authority, but in a clear and urgent case." - And in Cooper vs.
Telfair, 4 Dall. 14, by the late. Mr Justice Patterson: " to
authorise this court to pronounce any law to be void, it must
be a! clear; unequivocal breach of the constitution; not a
doubtful and argumentative implication."
Mr Jones in reply argued that,
The term "contracts,"-used in the constitution, comprehends as weil those between two state's, or between a state
and private individuals, as those between two or more private individuals, citizens or not citizens of the state, the validity-of whose law is drawn in question.
It comprehends not only such as remain executory or in
action, but all vested rights and interests in any species of
property, corporeal or incorporeal ; and, am6ng these, the
franchises and property of private corporations, whether cre-

SUPREME COURT.
[Providence Bank vs. Billings and Pittman.]

ated for any expressed consideration of definite value, or for
any declared objects of public utility.; or purporting to be
merely gratuitous, as between grantor and grantee; the implied benefits to the community being the only compensation supposed tobe given or received; even donations from
the state, or individuals, to eleemosynary and ieligious institutions, or to others of public beneficence or utility, whether
incorporate or unincorporate.
I It matters not by what means,,or in what form the bontract
is created, or the ights vested ; whether by charter or grant
from the state, after it became sovereign and independent;
or during its colonial'state, from the crown; or by a law in
the ordinary form of legislative enactment: they are all
equally protected by the constitutional prohibition.
This constitutional sanction rests not on the good faith
supposed, by the comity of sovereigns, tainform the breasts
of each other; nor upon the dread appeal to that ultima
ratio, which is ordinarily the Only means of compulsory redress among themselves : but it acts, directly and practically
upon state power and jurisdiction; and enables the. tribunals
to set aside the obnoxious law, and to 'uphold and enforce,
by judicial coercion, the rights.it attempts tQ iolate.
It inatters not what the kind or degree of force exerted by
the law upon the contract, or the vested right; whether, it go
directly and wholly to annul the, one, or to destroy the
other ; or in any degree to impair or injure it; or to exert any authority over it, necessarily involving, and insepa-:
rably inherent to an authority-'to annul, destroy or impair
it: any compulsory change in the terms of the contract, or
in the'essential condition of the vested right, whether positively injurious' or even positively beneficial, is within the
same reason, and equally prohibited to the states.
The numerous decisions of this court,. by which these
principles have been judicially established; hre too recent
and familiar to require any particulal reference. Their
authority precludes all judicial question, and dispenses with
all proof of the axioms deduced -from them.
"Taxes (as' accurately classed by writers, on political
economy,) are either direct or indirect : direct, when ir-

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Providence Bank vs. Billings and Pittman.]

mediately taken from income or caoital; indirect, when
taken from them, by making the owners pay for liberty to
use certain articles, or to exercise certain privileges."
When, therefore, the bank is made to pay for liberty to
exercise the privilege of. employing a certain capital in the
trade of banking, or of exerting any other of its -chartered
faculties; doubtless an indirect taxation of the capital itself, in iirhat species of property soever consisting, results.
But the converse of-the proposition :does not hold, that a
direct tax, in the ordinary mode of taxation, upon the capital of individuals invested in bank stock, or upon the-product of the skill and labour bestowed in, the employment of
that capital, or upon the lands, ships, merchandize, or
other specific property held by the bank for the benefit of
the individual stockholders; necessarily operates, directly
or indirectly, any duty or burthen whatever, on the corporate franchise itself, or the liberty to exercise the privileges
conferred by, the charter. The very material difference between-the-two'modes 6f taxation, as they espectively affect
the substantial 'terms.of the charter, and the-Aessenitial condition of the rights vested by- it, will be presently con-Aidered. The simple- proposition, 'that it is a duty imhposed,
specifically, on the corporate franchisei and the faculties
and privileges with which the body corporate is endued by
its charter,,- is what is now to. be proved.
'This is conceived 'to be clear from :the import of the
law itself.
The tax is laid directly on the bank, in its corporate -capacity - and the stock, belonging t&individuals, isjnade the
mere measure of the imposition on the aggregate body.,
Thisstock is not the property of the bddy taxed; but-is divided into distinct and separate shares, which belong to the
several owners, as their separate, individual estate, and subject to theindependent disposal of each owner; as were the
several capitals, represented by the stock, before they were
subscribed to-the stock, and while they subsisted ifi the original form of ihoney. The capital paid in and represented
by, the stock, is entrusted to the custody and husbandry of

SUPREME COURT.
[Providence Bank vs. Billings and Pittmatj

the corporation ; but, that artificial and transferable corn.
modity, biought into life by the charter, endued with all its
faculties by the charter, and denominated bank stock, is just
as much'ihe separate property, and at the disposal of the
respective owners, clear of all corporate control, as their
several lands, chattels and choses in action. This quality of
the stock is' just as distinctly guarantied to the stockholders
individually, as is the corporate franchise, or-any of its faculties, i6 the aggregate body. There is nothin'g of the-social
property or possession incident -to partnership. Then, the
property of one person -is merely, adopted as an arbitrary
measure b ihe quanitum of taxation on another. -There is
nomore of indirect taxation upon the bank'stock held by
individuals, and thus made the arbitrary measure of taxation,
than upon the lands; ships, choses in action, or other property held by the aggregate body for the benefit of the several brooatora s, -but, not comprehended in the rule of adnieasurement' for determining the'mere-quantum of taxation.
"Theindirect'effeot upon, all is precisely the Same. - -But this
ihdirect- ofperati6n of the tax"does notgoi in the least dgree,
to relieve'any 6n6 article of'tife property, hor any one of
the proprietors affected by the ol.eration -from the general
law'of taxation operating upon themb, in-common with their
citizens. .'Under that geheral law, all the -property,
of every'speciesj held by thb corporation, for the benefit ofthe.stockhlders, is rated,'qua propertyin the common process,
of taxatioi; just the same as if'the franchise or chartered
faciilties.bf the corporation hid not been. taxed- at all : so
are the-money capitals, invesfed in and represented by the
shares of bank stoel, and the products receited in the. form
of-dividebds: all being still liable to -bh rated in the gene'al
taxation upon capital and income, Withbuttheleast hllowance
for ivhat is indirectly abstracted by,- the duty on the corporate body.- This duty; therefore, does:not.eveti-aff ct to be
a: circuitous mode of more conveniently tixing-property; in
any form of fixed oir of commercial dapitall ori of income.
It is no part of any general systerh, eithek.iof a propertytax,
or an income tax; but is solely and bxclusiyefy directed to

-feliow

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Providence Bank vs. Billings and Pittman.]

the chartered liberty or -privilege of a certain mode of artificial existence, and of exercising the peculiar faculties of
that mode of existence. The tax is just as effective in terms
and in obligation, whether the corporation, qua proprietor,
own millions or nothing; whether the capital stock be at
cent per cent advance, or the capital invested in it be uttbrly
lost and sunk in the course of. trade; whether the income,
in the form of dividends, be large or small, or nothing. * The
amount of. capital stock paid in, is the unvarying standard of
the duty on the bank; the actual state and condition of the
bank, or of the stockholders as proprietors, enters not at all
into the scheme of the duty. Then, how can the bare contingency, that it may be one of the incidents and corksequences of the scheme, indirectly, to burthen the property
of the bank, or of the stockholdersi make this any the less
a duty directed specificallyj nay exclusively, to the continued enjoyment of the corporate franchise, to which it attach- 
es itself, independent of every consideration of property.
The original grant of this franchise to the bank is ad mitted, it is presumed, to be in the nature of a contract between
the state and the corporation; within the meaning of the constitution; and, it is further presumed to'be admitted,. notwithstanding a good deal of amb'iguity on this point in, the opposite argument, that this contract, with all the peculiar
rights and privileges vested under it, is of paramount obligation, and altogether irrevocable and indefeasible by any
subsequent act of legislation. Admitted or denied, it cannot, at this day, be treated as a subject of controversy, unless
this court should please to intimate a wish to review and reconsider the principles of former decisions. The obligation
of the contract- if it means any thing, means that the corporation shall always enjoy- the franchise, with all the faculties, rights and privileges vested by the grant, upon the identical terms and conditions of that grant. The question then
is a practical one. Does the law of.1822, against the consent of the grantee, -materially change the original terms of
the grant, or the condition of the rights vested .by it . In
either case, it equally impairs the obligation.of the contract,
within the meaning*of the constitution.
VOL. IV.-.3 U

SUPREME' COURT..
TMrovidence Bank vs. Billings and Pittman.)

One of the'most material terms of a contract or grant is

the consideration. The grant of a franchise is either in some
sort gratuitous, as if founded onthe implied coniideration of
diffusive benefits to'the community, or on the 'expressed
consideration of public utility;* or of some pecuniary or.
other equivalent,, of definite value. In either case it is
equally binding-and indefeasible, without the consent of
both parties. If, being gratuitous, it be hurthened with a
price.; or if, being for valuable consideration, the price be
arbitrarily increased, who can, doubt 'that the terms of the
contract are materially changed 9 And if this be done by
the retrospective operati6n -of a Jlaw, 'arbitrarily imposing
such new term~s, who can doubt that the obligation of the
contract is injuriously impaired, if not destroyed .
The case of land pLrchased from the state being, liable
to taxation, in common with 'the land of other individuals,
is put'as an argument, in point, against us. No one ever
imagined 'that a change inthe condition of the land, from
public to private domain,.necessarily..annexed any pre-emi.nent privileges 'to it. So we-admit, without qualiiication,
that all property held by the bank, by virtue of its charter,
is taxable' in common with other property of the- like description. SP this court admitted was the condition of the
property held by the Bank of the United States, though the
bank itself, or 'its franchises and privileges were iot so. But
suppose the legislature, by a retrospective law, instead of
subjecting the land to the general law of taxation, tax the
grant itself, the title to hold and enjoy jhe land, and exact
from the grantee, over and above the original consideration,
a new compensation for parting with the title of the public
to an individual: or, what is the same thing, select his particular land from the mdss of other taxable landsj and besides the general tax contributed for it by the proprietor, in
common with other proprietors of lands, exact an additional'
tax on his, because his title or grant was derived from the
state; so as, in effect, to tax the grant itself, or the right, before-granted, to hold and enjoy the land; this would be a'
clear infringement of theL contract,, as being a'material and

JANUARY. TERM 1830.
[Proviaence Bank vs. Billings and Pittman.]

injurious change in its terms : in effect, the exaction of an
additional compensaton for the grant.
Next, we are to examine the state and condition of the
right vested by the grant; and see if that is subjected by
the law in question to any material change from the state
and condition in which the grant Driginally placed it.'
This must be determined by the nature and extent of the
esvested right, then and now.
It is hot at this day to be disputed, that the grant imports
a contract that the grantees shall absolutely and fully enjoy,
the liberty to exercise all the privileges and faculties, either
expressed in the-grant or incident to its nature, unrevoked'
and undiminished; in short, that these privileges and faculties shall continue while the corporation endures, of the
seime extent and of the specific quality as when originally
conferred, without any hindrance, impediment or molestationon the part of the giantor. The implied covenants of
thie grant are just as strong and obligatory as those covenants of title in an ordinaiy bargain and, sale, that go to tie
up the .hands of the bargainor himself, and of all claiming
under him or acting by his authority.. For instance ; the
covenants against incumbranies, &c. and for quiet enjoyment, without the let, molestation, hindrance, &c. of the
bargainor, &c.. The granted liberties and franchises cannot be destroyed or taken away, in the whole or in part;
cdnsdquently, they cannot be altered or diminished in kind
or in degree; for he who has a discretion to alter or diminish, necessarily has a discretion to destroy, unless the limits.
of his discretion be stipulated in the grant. It is not the
mere quantum of the injury to the grantee, nor the degree in'
which the terms and conditions of the contract are transgressed, that determines the rightfulness of the act. Once
admit a discretionary power, in any degree, as resulting from
the relation of the parties, and not from the limitations'of
the contract, and it can be nothing but an unlimited discretion. The granted liberties and faculties cannot be afterwards clogged 'with any new conditions or incumbrances,
that may either stop or retard their action ; neither a molehill nora rmountain;can be raised in their path. This is the

556

SUPREME COURT.
[Providence Bank vs. Billings and Pittman.]

.irresistible and universdi conclusion of reason; and sanctioned, if it wanted sanction, by the reasoning and the decision of this court in .Green vs. Biddle, 8 Wheat. 84.
Then, is not the exaction of a tax, or, in other words of
an ad'ditional compensation to the state, for the chartered
liberty, as efficient an instrument, either for the destruction
or the diminution of the liberty, as any that could be devised! What is there that could more effectually stop or
retard. its chartered course q It depends entirely upon the
weight of the burthen, whether the party, on whom it is
imposed, sink under it, or be measurably impeded and re-:
tarded. In mercantile language, it may occasion a partial
loss of one per cent, or a total loss- of one hundred per
cent; and, in principle, does it matter which . The questioxi is not, whethey the tax be exorbitant or oppressive. Of
that no judicative tribunal can possibly be the' judge. If
the discretion to tax at all rest with the -legislature, the
disoretion-.is, in the nature of things, unlimited. It is impossible for any-ut the delegated depositaries of the power
to tax, and their constituents to judge and determine what
tax is reasonable or exorbitant. Wiat might be a light
burthen to one bank might overwhelm another. Once determine that a discrbtionary power to impose the burthen in
afiy degree exists, and the judicial power is for ever gone to
control it in any degree.,
Then these postulates may be taken for granted,
1. That thle imposition of a new tax or burthen on the
liberty, in any degree, measurably clogs and impedes, the
practical exercise of that liberty, and so diminishes it.
2. That such tax or burthen is an instrument equally efficient to destroy as to diminish the liberty, according to the
kind and- degree of force with, which the instrument is bsed.
3. That itrests. in the absolute discretion of the legislature to use it, either for the one purpose or the other,. if-at
all.
The conclusion is inevitable, tiat, if it may be used at
all, the exercise of the liberty, in any'degree, and its very
existnce,.rest upon sovereign discretion, not on the faith of
a .contract. This amounts either to a negation of.the postulate with which we set out, that the grant of. the liberty is

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Providence Bank vs. Billings and Pittman.]

in the nature of a contract; or to an exclusion of all contracts from the-sanction and protection of the constitution:
or to an exception of this particular contract from the condition of contracts in general.
The ground or reason of such exception is not stated, and
is altogether beyond comprehension.
Then, if the law of 1822 be borne out in the imposition
of this new burthen on the liberty to exercise the privileges
of the franchise, the change effected in the state or condition
of the franchise, as it stood under the 'original law of the
contract, and as it stands under the subsequent modification
of that law, is this: originally, the contract under which it
was held was consummate and executed; now, one, at
least, of its most material terms, the consideration, is executory and contingent, and, what is worse, discretionary
with the other party : originally, the exercise of the franchise,
within-its chartered limits, was absolutely free and unrestrained; now, burthened with new impositions, and liable
to be further burthened, ad infinitum : originally, the liberty
and right so to exercise the privileges and faculties of the
franchise, were absolute, unconditional, and indefeasible;
now, at the sovereign will and pleasure of the legislature.
The franchise is not like the proper subjects of political
power intrusted to legislative discretion at all; but, to the
positive" sanction of public faith, tied down by the inviolable
obligation of contract. Indeed, an abuse of. legislative
power, in. oppressing the great mass of the community by
exorbitant taxation, far less in confiscating all its property,
is scarce an admissible supposition. The mass of the community holds, in its own hands, the remedy against its own
oppression, and the abuses of its rulers: but the great con"servative principle of political responsibility may act very
feebly, or'not at all, in protecting and enforcing the particular rights and obligations of contracts against violation by
-the government. It is, therefore, that political rights, and
the vested rights of contract and property, are placed on
different bases, and protected by different sanctions. The
administration of any political power must, in the nature of
things, be more or less discretionary; and can give no guarantee against abuse, but the responsibility inseparable from

SUPREME COURT.
[Providence Bank vs. Billings and Pittian.]

delegated power: the -rights and obligations of contracts,
o-i the other hand, are -no subjectsof political trust or discretion at all; but just as positive and coercive upon the
party that*happens to be a sovereign state, as upon an individual.
An objection somewhat novel is -started, which goes to.
limit and restrict, instead of enlarging, state power, by denying its competency to make such a contract as we say it
has made in this case. The state cannot, it seems, alienate
or part with its sovereign power, in whole bt in part. Taxation is an incidefit of its. highest sovereign power, and
cannot be aliened by contract; therefore, a contract to
exempt .any particular person or -species of property from
taxation is void.
To say nothing of the evident inconsequence of the conclusion from the premises, and of the inaccuracy of holding.
that the constitutional incompetency of a state to lay new
exactions upon its own contracts, and upon the mere abstract
rights, of contract, created by the st'ate 'itself, is the same
thing as a substantive stipulation to exempt property, in its
nature an appropriate and legitimate subject of taxation ;
we may wonder why the axe Was not applied to the root of
the bank charter. For, surely, the principle of the objection goes that length: since the franchise itself is car'ed out of the eminent domain, or transcendental propriety
of the state; and is a portion of it; aliened and bestowed
upon every corporation; and no small portion of it is parted
with, when runicipal corporations are created.
But it should not have qscaped the learned counsel that
the state. legislature of New Jersey was held bound by a
contract of its predecessor, the colonial legislature, diiesting
itself of a portion of this very incident of high sovereignty,
taxation, as it applied to certain lands belonging to citizens
of the state,-and constituting as appropriate a subject of
taxation in general, as can be imagined. This, not as he
supposes, because of any peculiar dignity or sanctity attached to a treaty half a century before, between the former
colony and the poor remnant of a broken tribe of Indians;
but, upon the ground of contract simply: which, indeed, is
the onl'intell.igible ground for the obligition of treaties,

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Providence Bank vs. Billings and Pittman.]

upon the parties to them. It miglit also have been-ecollected, that the legislature of New Jersey, in the instance
just stated, and of Georgia, in the case of the Yazoo lands,
were held to have conclusively renounced by contract, and
by its implied, not its express stipulations, the exercise of
one of the highest and most indispensable prerogatives of
legislation; that of repealing its own laws.
Mr Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the_.opinion of the
Court. -This is a writ of error to a judgment rendered in the
highest court for the state of Rhode Island,in anaction7"of
trespass brought by the plaintiff in error against the defendant.
In November 1791 the legislature of Rhode Island granta charter of incorporation to certain individuals,, who had
associated themselves together .for.the purpose of forming a
banking company. .They are'incorporated by the name of
the "President, Directqrs, and Company of the Providence
Bank;" and have the ordinhry powers-which are supposed
to be necessary for the usual objects of such issociations.
In 1822 the legislature of Rhode Island passed "an act
imposing a duty on licensed persons and others, and bodies
corporate within the state ;" in which, among'othpr things
it is enacted that there shall be paid, for the use of the' state,
by each and every bank within the state, except the Bank of.
the United-States, the sum of fifty cents on each and every
thousand dollars of. the capital. stock actually paid in."
This tax was afterwards augmented to one dollar and twentyfive cents.
The Providence Bank, haying determined to resist the
payment of. this tax, brought an action of trespass against
the officers by'whom a warrant of distress was issued against
and served upon the property of the bank, in pursuance of
the law. The defendants justify the taking set out in the
declaratiorn under the act of assembly imposing the tax; to
which plea the plaintiffs demur, and assign for cause of
demurrer that the act is repugnant to the constitution of the
United States, inasmuch as it impairs the obligation of the
contract created by their charter of incorporation. Judg-

SUPREME COURT.
[Providenco Bank vs. Billings and Pittman.]

ment was given by the court of common pleas in favour of
the defendants; which judgment was, on-appeal, confirmed
by the supreme judicial court of the state: that judgment
has been brought before this court by a writ of error.
It has been settled that a contract entered into between a
state and an individual, is as fully protected by the tenth
section of the first article of the constitution, as a contract
between two individuals; and it is not denied that a charter
incorporating a bank is a contract. Is this contract impaired by taxing the banks of the state '.
This question is to be answered by the charter itself.
It contains no stipulation'promisig exemption from taxation. The state, then, has made no express contract which
has been impaired by the act of v hich the plaintiffs complain. No words have bedn found in the charter, which, in
themselves, would justify the opinion that the power of taxaLion was in the view of either of the parties; and that an exeniption of it was intended, though not expressed. The
plaidftiffs find great difficulty in showing that the charter
contains a promise, either express or implied, not to tax the
bank. The elaborate and ingenious argument which has
been urged amounts, in substance, to this. The charter authorises the bank to employ its capital in banking transactions,
for the .benefit of the stockholders. It binds the state fo
permit these transactions for this object. Any law arresting directly the operations of the bank would .violate this
obligatiof, and would come within the prohibition of the
constitution. But, as that cannot be done circuitously which
may not be done directly, the charter restrains the state from
passing any act which may indirectly destroy the profits of
the bank. A power to tax the bank niay unquestionably be
carried to such an excess as to take all its profits, and still
more than its profits for the use of the state ; and consequently destroy the institution. Now, whatever may b.e the
rule of expediency, the constitutionality of a measure depends, not on the degree of its exercise, but on its principle.
A power therefore which may .in effect destroy the charter, is inconsistent with it; and 'is impliedly renounced by
granting it. Such a power cannot b exercised without im-

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Providence Bank vs. Billings and Pittman.] -

pairing the obligation of the contract. When.pushed-to its
extreme point, or eercised in moderation, it is the same
power, and is hostile to the rights granted by the charter.
This is substantially the argument for the bank. The plaintiffs cite and rely on several sentiments expressed, on vari'ous
occasions by this court, in support of these positions.
The claim of the Providence Bank is certainly of the first
impression. The power of taxing moneyed corporations has
been frequently exercised; and has never before, so far as is
known, been resisted. Its novelty, however, furnishes .no
conclusive argument against it.
That the taxing power is of vital importance; that it is
essential to the existence of government; are truths which it
cannot be necessary to reaffirm. They are a'cknowledged
and asserted by all. It would seem that the relinquishment
of such a power is never to be assumed. We will not say
that a state may not relinquish it; that a consideration sufficiently valuable to induce a partial release of it may, not
exist: but-as the whole community is interested in retaining
it undiminished; that community has a right to insist that its
abandonment ought not to be- presumed, in a case.in which
the delibdrate purpose of the state to .abandon it does not
appear.
The plaintiffs would give to this charter the same -construction as if it contained a clause exempting the bank from
taxation on its stock in trade. But can it be supposed" thatsuch a clause, would not enlarge its privileges !.They contend that it must be implied; because the power to tax may
be so wielded as to defeat the purpose for which. the charter
-wasgranted. And may not this be said with equal truth of
other legislative powers q.Does it not also apply'with equal
force to* every incorporated company!. A company may be
incorporated for the 'purpose of trading in goods as well as
trading in money.. If the policy of the state should lead to
the imposition of a tax on unincorporated companies, could'
those which might be iiacorporaied claim an exemption, in
virthe of a charter which does not indicate such an intention . The time may come when a duty may be inposed on
Void. IV.-3 V

SUPREME COURT.
[Providence Bank vs. Billings and Pittman.]

manufactures. Would an incorporated company be exempted from this duty, as the mere consequence of its charter 9
The great -object of an incorporation is to bestow the
character and properties of individuality on a collective and
changing body of men. This capacity is always given to
such a body. .Any privileges which.may exempt it from the
burthens common to individuals,, do not flow necessarily
from the charter, but must be expressed in it, or they do not
exist.
if the power of taxation is inconsistent with the charter,
because it may be so exercised as to destroy the- object for
which the charter is given "it is. equally inconsistent with
every other charter, because it is equally capable of working
the.destruction'of the objects for which every other charter
is given. If the grant of a power to trade in money to'a
given amount, implies an exemption of the stock in trade
from taxatibi', because the tax may absorb all the profits;
then'the grant of any. other thing implies the same exemption; for thai thing may be taxed to an extent which will
render it totally unprofitable to the grantee. Land, for ex-'
ample, has, in many, perhaps in 4l the states, been granted
by government since the adoption of the, constitution. This
grant is a contract, the object of which is that the profits
issuing from it shall enure to the benefit of the grantees
Yet the power of taxation may be carried 'so far as to abpsorb these profits. Does this impair the 'Obligation of the
contract . The ideais rejepted by all;' and the proposition
'appears so extravagant, that it is difficult to admit any resemblance in the cases. And yet if the proposition for
which the plaintiffs contend be true, it carries us to this
point.. That proposition is, that a power which is in itself
capable of being exerted to the total destruction of the
grant, is inconsistent with the grant; and is therefore impliedly relinquished by the grantor, though the language of
the instrument contains no allusion to the'subject. If this
be an abstract truth, it may be supposed universal. But it
is not universal and therefore its truth cannot be admitted,
in these broad terms, in any case. We must look for the
exemption in the language of the instrument; and if we do

JANUARY TERM 1830.

.563

[Providence Bank us. Billings and Pittman.]

not find it there, itwould bp going very far to insert it by
construction.
The power of legislation, aid consequently of. taxation,
operates on all the persons and property belonging to the
body politic: This is an original principle, which has its.
foundation in society itself. It is granted by all, for the benefit of all. It resides in government as a part of itself, and
need not be reserved when property of any descripti6n,'or
the right to use it in any manner, is granted to individuals
or corporate bodies. However absolute the right of an individual may be, it is still in the nature of -that right, that it
must bear a portion of the public burthens ; and that portion must be determined by the legislature. This vital
power may be abused; but the constitution of the United
States was not intended to furnish the corrective for every
abuse of power which may be committed by the state governments. The interest, wisdom, and justice of the representative body, and its relations with its constituents, furnish
the only security, where there is no express contract, against
unjust and excessive taxation; as well as against unwise legislation generally. This principle was laid down in the case
of M'Cullough vs. The State of Maryland, and in Osborn et
al. vs. The Bank of the United States. Both those cases, we
think, proceeded on the admission that an incorporated ban4,
unless its charter shall express the exemption, is no more,
exempted from taxation, than an unincorporated company
would be, carrying on the same business.
The case of Fletcher vs. Peck has been cited; but in that
case the legislature of*Georgia passed an act to annul its
grant. The case of the State of New Jersey vs. Wilson has
been also :mentioned; but in that case the stipulation exempting the land from taxation, was made in express words.
The reasoning of the couit in the case of M'Cullough'vs.
The State of Maryland has been applied to this case; but the
court itself appears to have provided against this application.
Its opinion in that case, as well as in Osborn et al. vs. The
Bank of the United States, was founded, expressly, on the
supremacy of the laws of congress, and the necessary consequence of that supremacy to exempt its instruments employ-

SUPREME COURT.
[Providence Bank vs. Billings and Pittman.]

ed in the execution of its powers, from the operation of any
intefering power whatever. In reasoning on the argument
that the power of 'taxation was not confined to the people
and property of a state, but might be exercised on every object brought within its jurisdiction, this court admitted the
truth of the proposition ; and added, that "the power was an
incident of sovereignty, and was co-extensive with that to
-which it was an incident. All powers, the court said, over
which the sovereign power of a state extends, are subjects
of taxation. The sovereignty of a state extends to every
thing which exists by its own authority, or is introduced by
its permission ; but does it extend to thosemeans which are
employed by congress to carry into executibn powers conferred on that body by the people of the United States .
We think not.
So in the case of Osborn vs. The Bank of the United
States, the court said, "the argument".in favour of the right
of the stare'to tax-the bank, "supposes the corporatign .to
have been originated for the management of an individual
concern, to be founded upon contract between individuals,
hdving.private trade and private profit for its great end and
principal object.
if these premisps were true, the conclusion drawn from
them would be inevitable. This mere private corporation.
.- gaged in its own business, would certainly be subject to
the taxing power of the state as any individual would be."
The court was certainly not discussing the question
whether a tax imposed by a state on a bank chartered by
itself, impaired the Qbligation of its contract ; and these opinions are not conclusive as they would be had ,they be'n
delivered in such a case: but they show that the question
was not considered as doubtful, and ,that inferences drawn
from general expressions poifited to a different subject cannot
be correctly drawn.
We have reflected seriously on this case,,aid are of opinion that the act of the legislature of Rhode Island, passed
in 1822, imposing a duty on licensed. persons and others, and
bodies corporate within the state, does not impair the obligation of the contract created by the charter. granted to the

JANUARY TERM 1830.

565

[Providence Bank vs. Billings and Pittman.]

plaintiffs in error. It is therefore the opinion of this court,
that there is no error in the judgment of the supreme judicial
court for the state of Rhode Island, affirming the judgment
of the circuit court in this case; and the same is affirmed; and
the cause is remanded to the said supreme judicial court, that
its judgment may be finally entered.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript .of the
record from the supreme judicial court of the state of Rhode
Island and Providence plantations, and was argued by counsel; on consideration whereof, it is ordered and adjudged by
this court, that the judgment of the said supreme judicial
court in this cause be, and the same is hereby affirmed, with
costs.

