JANUARY TERM 1830.

FRuzcis LAGRA GE, ALIAS ISIDnOE, A M.t oF CoiLoui, PAmnTIFF
Im ERROR Vi. PIERRE CHOETEAU, JUN.
After the decision of the case in the supreme court of the state of Missouri, the
plaintiff presented a petition for a rehearing, claiming his freedom under the
provisions of the brdiuance of congress of the 13th of July 1787, for the gov-

ernment of the territory of the United States north west of the jiver Ohio.
The supreme court refused to grant the rehearing; and the plaintiff prosecuted
a writ of error to this court under the twenty-fifth section of the judiciary

act of 1789. Held, that as the petition for rehearing forms no part of the
record, it cannot be noticed. The jurisdiction of this court depends on the
matter disclosed in the bill of exceptions.

ERROR from the supreme court of the state of Missouri.
An action of trespass vi et armis was brought in the state
circuit court of the county of St Louis, state of Missouri, by
the plaintiffin error, amian ofcolour, against Pierre Chouteau,
the defendaift, for the purpose of trying his right to freedom.
The judgment of the circuit court was against the plaintiff;
and on an ippeal to the supreme court of Missouri, that
judgment was affirmed.
The case was brought before this court by writ of error ter
the supreme court of Missouri, under-the twenty-fifth section
oat the act to establish judicial courts of the United States,
passed on the 29th of September 1789.,
The case is fully stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr Kane, for the defepdant in error,.objected to the court
taking jurisdiction of the case; as it did not come within the
provisions of the twenty-ifth section of the act of congres's.
It c~uld not be found, on the most careful examination of
the record, that the construction of any act of congress had
been brought into question in the cou'rts of Missouri, *here
the suit was originally entertained. All the questions in the
case before those courts might have been and were decided
without reference to the act'of congress. The claim to freedom, asserted by the plaintiff, was left to the jury by the
court before which it was tried ; and if in any of the instruc-

SUPREME COURT.
[Lagrange vs. Chouteau.]

tions given by the court, reference to the ordinance of
congress of the 13th of July 1787, can be supposed to have
been made, the construction given by the court to that ordinance was in favour of the plaintiff inerror.
Mr Lawless, for the plaintiff in error, argued; that as the
provisions of the twenty-fifth section do not declare in what
stage of the proceedings the construction of an act of congress shall have been questioned to give this court jurisdiction - the refusal of the supreme court of Missouri to allow
to the plaintiff a rehearing, he having petitioned for the
same, alleging his right to freedom under the ordinance,
made this a case for the cognizance of this court. Cited,
Hickie et al. vs. Starke et al. 1 Peters, 94.
Mr Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This was an action of trespass vi ec armis, brought by t.
plaintiff against the defendant, in the circuit court "for the
county of St Louis, in the state of Missouri, for the purpose
of trying the right of the plaintiff to freedom.
The general issue was pleaded, and a verolict found for the
defendant. The judgment on this verdict was carried by
appeal to the supreme court for'the third judicial, district,
where it was affirmed. This judgment has been brought
into this court by writ of error.
The pleadings do; not show that any act of congress was
drawn into question; but the counsel for the plaintiff has
read a petition for a rehearing, which s-ts forth a claim to
freedom, under the ordinance of congniss, passed on the
13th'of July 1787, for the government of the territory of the
United States north west of the river Ohio. But as a petition for rehearing 1orms no part of the record, it cannot
be noticed. The jurisdiction of the court depends on the
matter disclosed in the bill of exceptioris.
At the trial, thi plaintiff proved that Pascal Carr6, in 1816,
was desirous of selling the plaintiff, who was then his slave,
and the defendant wished to purchase him. The offer
of the defendant was declined," because the witness was

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Lagrange vs. Chouteau.]

desirous of selling the slave to some person who would take
him out of St Louis. Some time afterwards he sold the
slave to Pierre Menard, a resident of Kaskaskias, in the state
of Illinois, for the sum of five hundred dollars.
Pierre Menard deposed that some time in the year 1816,
Pascal Carr- offered to sell the plaintiff to-him; which proposition was rejected, because he resided in Illinois, where
slavery was not tolerated. On understanding that the-defendant was desirous of purchasing a slave, the witness informed him that Mr Carre had one for sale"; but the defendant replied that Carr6 would not-sell the slave to him, because
he resided in St Louis. It was suggested by Mr Berthold
that the witness might purchase the slave for Mr Chouteau;
which witness declined doing, because it Would be treating
his friend Carr6 incorrectly. He, however, ultimately agreed
to buy the said slave for Mr Chouteau, take him down the
river, and keep him there some months, and then deliver him
to the defendant. He accordingly bought the slave, took him
to St Genevieve in Missouri, and put him to. work at mine
La Motte, with some other hands. Some time afterwards he
was sent to Kaskaskias, and put on board a keel boat as a
hand. After remaining there about two days, he went in the
boat to New Orleans, whence he. returned to Kaskaskias
about the 30th of March 1817, as a hand in the boat. -After remaining a few days fo the purposb of unlading the
boat, he was sent in her to the Big Swamp in Girardeau
county, state of Missouri, where he remained five or six
weeks; after which he returned in the boat to Kaskaskias,
from which place, after two or three days, he was sent to St
Louis, and delivered to the defendant, who returned to the
witness the five hundred dollars he -had advanced for him.
The witness stated that he purchased the said slave for
the defendant, and not for himself, and that he never intended to make Kaskaskias the place of.his (the slave's) residence. Some other testimony substantially proving the same
fact was introduced by the parties. Upon this testimony
.the plaintiff's counsel moved the court to instruct, the jury.
1. That if they shall be of opinion that the plaintiff remained in-the state of Illinois with the person who purchased
VOL. IV.-2 M

SUPREME COURT.
[Lagrange vs. Qhouteau.3

him, and who was a resident of the said state, they must find
for the plaintiff. This instruction was refused.
2. That the right of .the plaintiff to his freedom is not affected by any secret trust or understanding between the
person who purchased and brought him to Illinois and any
other person whatsoever. This also was refused.
3. That if the jury shall be of opinion that the plaintiff
was, during any time, lawfully a resident 6f the state of Illinois, and in the service of a citizen bf that state, claiming
property in, 'and -owner of the said plaintiff, they shall find
for the plaintiff. This instruction was given.
4. That if the jury shall be of opinion that the plaintiff
was sold absolutely by a citizen of the state of Missouri to
a citizen of th6 state of Illinois, and belonged under such
sale tb such purchaser; no secret understanding between
s.id purchaser and a third person shall affect the rights
which the plaintiff may otherwise have to his liberty, as a
consequence of his residence in the state of Illinois. The
court refused to give this instruction as asked; but did instruct the jury, that if they believed the plaintiff was bought
by colonel Menard for his own use, and taken to Illinois and
kept therewjth the intention to make that his permanent
place of residence, they ought to find for the plaintiff.
The counsel for the plaintiff excepted to the opinions
given by the court, and to its refusal to give those which
were asked.
The right of the plaintiff to nberty was suoposed by the
court to depend on the question of his being purchased in
fact by a citizen of Illinois, and on his being carried to Illinois with a view to a residence in that state. The facts were
left to the jury, and found for the defendant. It is not perceived that any act of congress has been misconstrued. The
court is therefore of opinion that it has no jurisdiction of
the case.
The writ of error is dismissed ; and the cause remanded to.
*the supreme court for the third judicial district of Missouri,
thdt the judgment may be affirmed-

