332

SUPREME COURT.

WILLIAM T. GALT A.ND OTHERs,

APPELLA.NTS

T8. JABins GAILO-

WAY, JUN. AND OTHERS, APPELLEES.

The possession of a warrant has always been considered at the land office in
Ohio sufficient authority to make locations under it. Letters of attorney
were seldom, if ever, given to locators ; because they were deemed unnecessary. [389]
An entry could only be made in the name of the person to whom the warrant
was issued or assigned --so that the locator could acquire no title in his own
name, except by a regular assignment. [339]
When an entry is surveyed, its boundaries are designated, and nothing can be
morexreasonable and just than that these shall limit the claim of the locator.
To -permit hinr to vary his lines, so as to affect injuriously the rights of others
subsequently acquired, would be manifestly in opposition to every principle
of justice. [340]
Since locations were made in the Virginia military diskict in Ohio, it has been
the practice of locators, at pleasure, to withdraw their warrants, both before
add after surveys were executed. This practice is shown by the records of
the land offce, and is known to all who are conversant with these titles.
The withdrawal is always entered on the margin of the original entry, as a notice
to subsequent locators; and no reason is necessary to be alleged as ajustification of the act. If the first entry be defective in its calls, or if a more advantageous location can be made, the entry is generally withdrawn. This
change cannot be made to the injury of the rights of others ; and the public
interest is not affected by it. The land from which the warrant is withdrawn
is left vacant for subsequent locators; and the warrant is laid elsewhere, on
the shme number of unimproved lands. [341]
As the records of the land office are of great importance to the country, and are
kept under the official sanction of the government; their contents must always
be considered, and they are always received in courts of justice as evidence
of the facts stated. - [342]
Under the peculiar system of the Virginia land law, as it has been settled in Kentucky, and in the Virginia- military district in Ohio, by usages adapted to the
circumstances of the country, many principles have been established which are
unknown to the common law. A long course of adjudications has fixed these
principles, and they are considered as the sdttled rules by which these-military
titles are to be governed. [343] N
An entry, or the withdrawal of an entry, is in fact made by the principal surveyor at the instance of the-person who crntrols the warrant. It is not to be
presumed that this officer would place upon his records any statement which
affected. the rights of others, at the instance of an individual who had no
authority to act in the case. The facts, therefore, proved by the records, must
be.received as prima facie evidence of the righi of the person at whose instance they were recorded; and as conclusive, in regard to such things as the
law requires to be recorded. [34.3]

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Galt and others vs. Galloway and others.]
No principle is better settled, than that the powers of an agent cease on the death
of his principal:. [44]
A location made in the name of a deceased person is void ; as every other act
done in the name of a deceased person must be considered. [345]
The withdrawal of an entry is liable td objection, subject to the rights which
others may have acquired subsequent to its withdrawal having been entered
in the land office. This is required by principles of justice as well as of law.
[347]

APPEAL from the circuit court of Ohio.
James Galt, as heir to his brother Patrick Gait, the ancestor of the complainants, on the 6th day of August 1787,"
made an efitry for military lands in the Virginia reservation,
in the following words : "No. 610, James Galt (heir) enters
one thousand dcres on part of a military warrant, No. 194,
on the Miami river, beginning at the upper corner of Francis
Wheeling's entry, No. 438, running up the river five hundred
poles when. rediiced'to a straight line; thence at right angles with the general course of the river, and with Wheeling's line for quantity."
Thp bill of the appellants stated that this entry was valid
on the 15th of November 1796, and that a survey under the
same was made thereon agreeably to its calls; 'that James
Gait died intestate prior to the 2d of March 1807 ; and that
posterior thereto Elias Langham, withoutyany authority from.
James Gait or from the complainants, caused an entry of
the withdrawal of four hundred acres to be made in the.
books of the surveyor; the effect of which was to render the
residue of the entry of such a shape as that it could not be
legally surveyed, the law requiring that the breadth. -of a
survey shall be one-third of its length. Subsequent to this
withdrawal, the four hibndred acres which Langham attempted to have left Vacant thereby, were located by Galloway,
by entries of three hundred acres in his own name, and one'
hundred acres in that of Ladd, both of which were included
in one survey made on the 18th of June 1808 ; but afterwards,
on the 20th of July 1809, Galloway having caused the word
"1error" to be entered on the face of the plats of the survey of
1808, had separate surveys executed in his own name and in
that of Ladd, and also caused a survey to be made for himself
of six hundred acres of James Galt's entry of August 1787 of

SUPREME COURT.
[Gait and others vs. Galloway and others.]

one thousand acres, the part of the same, to withdraw which.
no attempt had been made by Elias Langham. A patent
for the four hundred acres was obtained by Galloway; and
he afterwards conveyed the land included in the same to
different persons, who are made parties to the bill. The
bill also stated that Thomas Baker resides on part of the one
thousand acres, claiming title under Joshua Collet. That
Collet claims title to part; thoit William Patterson is in possession of, claiming title to the residue ; and that Galloway
refuses to withdraw the four hundred acres. The complainants say they cannot procure a patent for the six _hundred
acres, without jeopardizing their title not only to the four
hundred acres, but also to te six hundred acres ; and pray
for.particular and general relief.
The answer of James Galloway, Jun. states, that Langham
withdrew the four hundred acres of Galt's entry of one thousand acres*- and that he believes the withdrawal was author-ised, but knows hot by whom; and, that since the bill' was
filed, he .has heard .the same was authorised by Westfall.
The survey on the six hundred acres, the residue of Galt's
entry, he says, .he executed and returned, and that he was at
the time he made the same, a regular deputy under Anderson. He obtained a patent for three hundred acres of the
land included in the patent, and sold the same.
JJoshua Collet and William Patterson, in their answers,
claim to hold title under Westfall; the same having been
sold as his property for his debts or responsibilities. Patterson represents, that he believes Westfall made a contract
with Gait for the whole of warrant No. 194, on a part of
which his claim is founded; and that Westfall obtained patents in.his own name for other entries on the warrant, and
sold them for his own benefit.
Elias Langbam answers, .that, at the request of Westfall,
he withdrew the four hundred acres as charged. He believed
Westfall purchased the warrant No. J94 from Gait, in his
.life time. He considered himself in possession of the whole,
as agent of Westfall, except one thousand acres transferred
fo Mallow from 1797; and never heard of complainants' claim

JANUARY TERM 183u.
[Galt and others vs. Galloway and others.]

until after the death of Westfall. By order of Westfal1, he
laid off the town of Westfall in Pickaway county, and sold
several small tracts of land, part of warrant No. 194 ; and
that he contracted with Westfall to withdraw and re-enter
other lands, which entitled him to~six hundred acres.
Evidence was exhibited, intended to show that an impression prevailed generally that Westfall was- entitled to
half of Galt's military land warrant. That Galt's warrant
was put into Westfall's hands to locate land. The opinion
of the court states such parts of the testimony and other
facts of the case, as were considered made out by proof.
The circuit court of Ohio gaye a decree ,against the complainants, and they appealed to this court.
The cause was argued by Mr Irvin for the appellants, and
by Mr Doddridge, contra.
For the appellants, it was contended:
1. That the entry in question of orie thousand acres, was
originally good and valid.
2. That the original survey of one thousand acres, included
the lands embraced in said entry.
3. That James Galt, in whose name the said entry and
survey were made, died intestate; and that the appellants are
his heirs at law.
4. ,That on the death of said Galt, a right to three thousand acres, part of warrant No. 194, and of the lands appropriated thereby, (which includes the lands in question,)
vested in the appellants as-his heirs at law.
5. That their right to the lands in question is not destroyed
by either:
1st. Langham's attempt to withdraw four hundred acres,
part thereof; or 2d. The locations made in the name of
Galloway and Ladd, on the part of said entry, so attempted
to be withdrawn, and the surveys and patents on said entries;
or 3d. The conveyances from Galloway to Stephenson, and
the Gibsons, and from Ladd's executor to Wilson; or 4th.
The conveyance bond executed by Westfall io Armstrong,
and assigned by him to Davis, and by. Davis to Patterson; or

SUPREME COURT.
[Galt and others'vs. Galloway and others.]

5th. The proceedings in attachment against Westfall. and
the sale and conveyance to tollet.
Mr Irvin argued-: that there was no legal evidence to show
that any authority had been given by Galt, the ancestor of
the appellants, to any one, to withdraw his entry. The declaratiois of Westfall, that he hjad received such authority,
were not evidence that it had been given; arrd the declarations-of an agent cannot-be -usedagainst his principal, unless
within the scope and purpose of his authority. A power to
16cafe the entries, did not authorise their revocation; nor did
it give to the agent the right to dispose of the property or
make it his own. If any power was given by James Gait to
Westfall or to any, other person, it should lie shown. He
who asserts'it, must make it Out by.evidence. If the contents of the instrument, which is said to .have given the
power, are to be proved by parol eA idence, its non-production
should be accounted for. Cited, 8 East, 550. '7 Wheat. i54.
Phil. 7.7, 79. 2 Taunt. 21.
The removal of the warrant arL entry was thus without
authority. Langham-"acted under W~stfall; and Westfall
had no authority to give to Langbiam, to do what was done
by him. The whole of the proceedings of Langham were
therefore void ; and no titles obtained under them can be
valid against those whose legal and known rights were in-fringed by the fraudlulen't contract of pretended ugents.
Affer the survey was made, the warrants became functi
officio: the warrant merges in the survey, if the survey was
authorised; but not otherwise. 1 Ohio Rep. 225. 3 Marsh.
Ken. Rep. 501, 96-. I Marsh. 129, 144. Hardin, 567.
Can the defendants avail- themselves of want of notice '.
The assignee of an equity is in no better condition than the
assignor, and there is no proof in the case that Westfall
owned an acr e of the land. Cited 6 Wheat. 560. 1 Marsh.
144.
-

Mr Doddridge, for the defendants, contended,
1.That upon the whole case, the complainants have shbwn
no-title in themselves.

JANUARY TERM 1830.
EGalt and others vs. Galloway and others.]

2. As to Galloway and those claiming under him, that the
four hundred acres being actually withdrawn on. the surveyor's books, vacated that quantity of the" original entry:
and
that they were not bound to look beyond the record;
are innocent purchasers, without nqtice.
3. That owing to the particular position of the one thounecessand acre entry, the withdrawal of four hundred acres
sarily left vacant the part located by Galloway.
any
The appellants have slept too long on their rights, if
suffered
have
they
existed. The bill was filed in 1821, and
part,
too long a period to elapse without compla.int, on their
void.
be
to
claimed
of those proceedings wl)ich are now
fide
bona
made;
been
Und er those proceedings sales had
acquired
been
had
titles for a full and valuable consideration
deby the defendants; all of which are to be vacated and
contended;
He
prevail.
feated, if the claims of the appellants
that as to the four hundred acres, the conduct of the surveyor,
in withdrawing this part of the'itirvey, was in accordance
with a practice of universal prevalence; nor was it-required
by the law of Virginia that, to transfer a warrant, a regular
assignment of it should be made., This principle was recogvs.
nized by this court, in the case of Bonldin and Wife
Massie's Heirs et al. 7 Wheat. 122. It may, therefore, be
well presumed, that the acts of Westfall were authorised
what
therefore,
that he had anhinterest in the warrants; and,
was done by'La'ngham was correct. When an entry is.made
it must
on the books of the office, by the principal surveyor,
time;
of
distance
great
a
at
be supposed valid; especially
proved:
unless the cortirary be plainly
The land law of Virginia, which regulates this cae, does
is
not support the position, that a warrant surrendered
19,24,
sec.
326,
Laws,
Vir.
23..
functus officio. 7 Wheat.
82, 42, 38.
Mr Justice M'L.Au delivered the opinion of the Court:
the
This~suit is brought totthis court, by an appeal from
circuit court of the district of Ohio.
The complainants claimed through their ancestor, James
warrant
Gait, one thousand acres of land, under a military
VoL. IV.-2 S

SUPREME COURT.
[Gait and others vs. Galloway and others.]

obtained by him, as heir to his brother, Patrick Galt. The
entry'was made on the 6th oT August 1787, as follows: "No.
610,'James Gait, heir, enters one. thousand acres on part of
a militptry warrant, No. 194, on the Miami river:, beginning
at the upper corner of Francis Whiting's entry, No. 438,
running up the river-five hundred poles, when reduced to a
straight line; thence~at right angles with the general course
of the river, ahd with Whiting's line for quantity."
On the, I6th of November 1796, the entry was surveyed
agreeably to its calls, and the survey'was recorded on the 31st
of May 1798. James Galt died inte'state in 1800. In 1805,
Elias.Langham, under the authority, as he alleges in his answer, of Westfall, who vade. the original entry, withdrew
four hundrdd gcres of the warrant, on this entry,'and located
the same number ofr acres at another place, in the name of
James Gait, heir, &c.
The four hundred acres left vacant by this withdrawal,
were located by James Galloway, Jun.; three hundred acres
of which were entered in his own name, and orle hundred
acres in the name of J. Ladd. These'entries were surveyed .n the 20th of July 1809, after Galloway had caused to
be made a survey of the six hundred acres, which remain'ed of the entry in the name of Gait. A patent was isiucd
on the entries and surveys of Galloway, and he 'has conveyed
to four of the defendants, each,,one hundred acres. Thomas Baker and William Patterson are in possession of;. and
claim title to the six hundred acres in the name of Galt.
Baker's claim originated by' a sale under an attachment
against Westfirl ; and'Patterson's by a purchase from him:
but-he does not appear, from the facts in the case, to have
had any interest in the land.
There is no evidence that Galloway had any agency in the
withdrawal of a part of the entry, as stated by Langham. The
complainants allege, that the withdrawal of the four hun'dred aces will invalidate the residue of the entry - as a survey, agreeably to.its calls, will give the six hundred acres an
illegal form. They pray for such general and particular
relief, as the nature and circumstances of tl~eir case may
require..

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Galt and others vs. Galloway and others.]

It is contended by the defendants' counsel, that no relief
.can be given against the defendants, who claim title to the
six hundred-acres ; as by the facts stated in the, bill, it clearly
appears, they have no title either equitable or legal.- That
the sale under the ittachment could convey no title to Collet, as Westfall had no claim whatever to the land; and that
Baker and Patterson, who are now in possession, must be
considered as trespassers. These occupants can be considered in no other light by the court than intruders i and the
remedy against them 'is at law, and not in ciancery. No
decree could be made against them, unless it be, that they
should deliver possession of the premises; and to obtain
'this, the action bf ejectment is the appropriate remedy.
Jurisdiction of this branch of the cause cannot be taken
as an. incident to the other, for it does not appear that the
withdrawal of the four hundred 'acres will destroy the entry
for the residue; and if it did, itwould only be necessary to
relieve against the defendants who held the legal title, to re-'
store to the complainants the means of perfecting their title
to the six hundred acres.
It appears, that a land warrant, numbered one hundred and
ninety-four, for six thousand acres, was issued to James Gait,
heir at-law and legal representative ofPatrick Galt; deceased.
That this warrant was placed in the hands of Westfall, who
located it on various tracts of land, including the tract'in
controversy.
In 1798, three thousand acres of this. warrant were assigned. by Galt to Westfall. The assignment was made on
three surveys, which had been executed under these entries;
one of these surveys was assigned by Westfall to Adam and
Henry Mallow, and on all bf them patents have been issued.
The possession of the warrant by Westfall is the only
evidence of his right to make the locations;, and this has
been uniformly considered, at the land office. as a sufficient
authority. Letters of attorney were seldom, if ever, given
to locators ; because they were deemed unnecessary.
The entry could only.be made in the name of the person to whoni the warrant was issued or assigned ; so that the

SUPREME COURT.
[Galt and others vs. Galloway and others.]

locator could acquire no title in his own name, except by a
regular assignment.
The power of Westfall to make the location is not contested ;.but the validity of the withdrawal is denied by the
complainants, on two grounds:
1. That the warrant had become merged in the survey,
and could not be withdrawn.
2. That Langham had no power to withdraw it.
Several authorities have been referred to in support of the
first positioin. Much reliance is p!aced on the decision in
the case of Estill and others vs. Hart's Heirs, reported in*
in Hardin, 567. In their opinion the court in that case say,
that, "whatever doubts might be raised as to the pbirticular
time at which the warrant shall be said to be merged in the
survey; whether from the time it is approved by the chief
surveyor and recorded, or from the time it was delivered out
to the owner; or from the end of three months after making
the survey ; we conceive the case clear, that, after registerIng, the warrant was no longer an authority -to any surveyor
to receive an entry or make another survey."
The right of withdrawing a warrant, after h survey had
been executed, was not involved in this case.
Two entries were made by Hart; one in 1780, the other
in 1782; and both were surveyed in 1.784. Boon subse*quently entered land adjoining these surveys. Some years
after this w-s done, Aj s executor and one of his heirs
caused another survey to be made of the entries of his ancestor, which, varying from the former surveys, covered a
part of Boon's land. The court decided, and very properly,
that the second survey was void. When an entry is surveyed,
its boundaries are designated, and nothing can be more rea-"
sonable and just than that these shall limit the claim of the
locator. To permit him to vary his lines so as to affect injuriously the rights, of others subsequently acquired, would
be mhnifestly in opposition to every principle of justice.
In the case of Loftus and others vs. Mitchel, 3 Marsh.
598, it is laid down by the'court, that a survey mdde by a
person without the. authority of the owner of the entry, does

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Gait and otheis vs. Galloway and others.]

not merge the warrant. The same principle is recognized
in the case of Galloway's Heirs vs. Webb, 1 Marsh. 130.
In the case of Taylor vs. Alexander, 3 Marsh. 501, the
court decided that a second survey of the same entry was
void.
It will be perceived, that none of the authorities cited sustain the position that a warrant cannot be withdrawn after
the survey has been executed and recorded. If the warrant
merge in the entry, and the entry in the survey, as laid down
in some adjudications; 'and if the warrant, being once merged,
is beyond the control of the owner; an entry, equally with
a survey, would prevent a withdrawal of the warrant.
Since locations were made in the Virginia military district in Ohio, it has been the practice of locators, at pleasure, to withdraw their warrants, both before and after
surveys were executed. This practice is showr] by the records of the land office and is known to all who are conversant with these titles.
The withdrawal is always entered on the margin of the
original entry, as a notice to subsequent locators; and no
reason is 'necessary to be alleged, as a justification of the
act. If the first entry be defective inits calls, or if a more
advantageous location can be made, the entry is generally
withdrawn.
This change cannot be made to the injury of the rights
of others, and the public interest is not affected by it. The
land, from which the warrant is withdrawn, is left vacant for
subsequent locators ;-and the warrant is laid elsewhere, on
the same number of aeres of unappropriated land.
In the case of Taylor's Lessee vs. Myers, reported in 7
Wheat. 23, one of the questions considered and settled, was,
"can the owner of a survey, made in conformity with his
entry, and not interfering with any other person's right,
abandon his survey after it has been recorded ." The chief
justice, who delivered the opinion of the court, says ; "it
seems to be an ingredient in the character of.property, that
a person who has made some advances towards acquiring
it, may relinquish it; provided the rights of others be not
affected by such relinquishment. This general principle

SUPREME COURT.
[Galt.and others os. Galloway and others.]

derives great strength from the usage which has prevailed
among these military surveys. The case states, that it has been
customary, ever since the year 1799, to withdraw surveys after they have been recorded. The place surveyed has, of
course, been considered as having become vacant; and has
been appropriated by other warrants, which have been surveyed and carried into grant."
In that case the court did not decide, because it was unnecessary to do so, that the warrant thus withdrawn could
again be located ; but this would follow as a matter of
course. If the withdrawal leave vacant the land entered,
the warrant remains unsatisfied, and may be again located
on any other unappropriated land.
It appears, therefore, that the righi of the owner to withdraw his warrant, after the survey has been executed -and
recorded, is clear, both on principle and authority.
The power of Langham to make the withdrawal, is the
next point to be considered.
Possession of the Warrant, as has oeen shown, is a sufficient authority to make the location, and it will not be questioned, that the locator may amend his entry, by changing
its calls. If he may do this, he may withdraw it, and make
a nev lodation. The control which he must necessarily exercise over the warrant, cannot, consistently with the interest of the owner, be limited to the first attempt at making
an entry. If that attempt be imperfect, or if the selection
of the land be less advantageous to his employer than it
might b6, there is no reason why he should not change the
entry. The authority necessarily extends to the withdrawal,
as fully as to the location, and such has been the' uniform
construction of the power of the locator. Confidence is reposed in his knowledge and discretion, and he has only to
act in good faith to bind his principal.
The register of the land office keeps a record of all entries
and surveys; and on his official certificates patents are issued by the government. His records are always under his
control ; and all entries made in them are made by himself,
or by a person autlorised
to act for him.
As the records of this office are of great importance to the

JANUARY TERM 1830.
'[Galt and others vs. Galloway and others.]

country, and are kept under the official sanctions of thegovernment, their contents must always be consid.red, and
they are always received in courts of justice as evidence of
the facts stated.
If a different rule were now to be established, and every
act of the locator, in making an entry or withdrawing it,
must be shown to have been done under a formal letter of
attorney,*it would destroy, in all probability, a majority of
the titles not carried into grant.
Under the peculiar system of the Virginia land law, modified as it has been in Kentucky, and in the Virginia
military district in Ohio, by usages adapted to the circumstances of the country, many priiciples have become established which are unknown to the common law. A: long
course of adjudications has fixed these principles, and- they
are considered as the settled rules by which these military
titles are to be governed.
An entry, or the withdrawal of an entry, is in fact made by
the principal surveyor, at the in.stance of the person who
controls the warrant. It is not to be presumed, that this officer would, place upon his records any statement which affected the rights of others, at. ihe instance of an individual
who had no authority to act in the case. The facts, therefore, proved by these records, mast be received as prima.facie evidence of the rig!it of the person at whose instance
they were recorded, and as conclusive in regaird to such
things as the law requires to be recbrded.
It will be in the power of an individual to rebut this presumption of authority in a person whose acts have been injurious to him and were. unauthorised, by an exhibition of
facts and circumstances.,
In the case of Moore and others vs. Dodd and others, reported in t Marsh. 140, the withdrawal of an entry by administrators was declared to be-void; as the right had descended
to the heir, and the administrators had no control over it.
That the withdrawal in that case was made at the instance of
the administratots, appeared from the entry on the record..
Langham, in his answer, states, that he made the withdrawal of the'four hundred acres; by the auihority of West-

SUPREME COURT.
[Galt and others vs. Galloway and othira.j

fall.

This withdrawal was

.made

eighteen years after the

date of the entry, and nineyears after the survey was executed. So great a lapse of time from the entry to the withdrawal, is a circumstance-which must be considered as shaking the right of the locator ; which depends, alone, upon his
having located the warrant.. In this case, there is Po posi.'
tive evidence that Westfall, after the entry, exercised any
agency. over the landin the payment of taxes, or in any
other manner, until this withdrawal took place on the application of Langham.
The survey which was executed by O'Connor in 1796,
does not appear to have -been done at the instance of Westfall; though, from his having made the entry, he may be presumed to have directed the survey.
From the answer of Patterson it appears that Westfall sold
the three hundred acres claimed by him to one Davis, in the
year 1806, and gave a bond with security for a title. It is
now apparent that he had no claim to any part of the land in
controversy. The right to the warrant for six thousand
acres, by assignments on the surveys for three thousand
acres, which seems to have been urged in the court below,
is abandoned by the counsel in the argument here; and the
power to withdraw the four hundred acres is rested on the
first location of the warrant.
In the absence of any proof of right,. the sale of a part
of this tract by Westfall is an evidence of bad faith on his
part' and.tends to throw suspicion over the act of withdrawal.
It is a well settled principle, that the locator, as such, has
no right to sell the land.
It is in proof, that James Gali, to whom the warrant issued, and in whose name the locations under it were made,
died in 1800. The withdrawal was made in 1805; and the
question is presented, whether the decease of the owner of
the warrant puts an end to the power of the .locator.
No principle is better Settled, than that the powers of an
agent cease on the death of his principal. If an act of
agency be done, subsequent to the decease of the principal,
though his death.be unknown to the agent, the act is void.
On the death of James Galt, the land in controversy de-

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Gait and others ms.Galloway and others.]

scended to his heirs ; and there is no proof that they authorised Westfiall to act in their behalf.. If he had the power
to withdraw any part of the warrant, it must haye been dvrived from the single circumstance of his having had the
control of the warrant when the entry was made.
Under ordinary circumstances, this power, as has been
shown, would be sufficient. But it is a power which may be
revoked or terminaied by circumstances. The possessi,'n
of the warrant is tantamount to a letter of attorney to make
the-entry, to alter or withdraw it, and to-diiect the survey
but it there no limitation when this authority under the warrant shall cdase 9 Can it be safely considered as investing
the locator with a higher power than a letter of attorney 9
If the authority be in the nature df a power of attorney,
and subject to the same principles of law, it ceased on the
death of Galt. On that event, new interests sprung up which
could not be controlled by the agent of .the deceased. In
the case of Hansford vs* Minor's Heirs, reported in 4 Bibb,
385, the court decided; that, "after the d.eath of Minor, as
the law then stood, it-was clearly irregular to survey the'entry and obtain the grant in his name: but as he at that time
had a devisable iiiterest in the land, upon his decease that
interest passed to Nicholas, the father of the appellees, and
consequently the title ought regularly to have been perfected in his name."
By a statute of Kentucky, passed in 1792, lands granted
to deceased persons descended to their heirs or devisees.This statute is not in force in Ohio, so as to give validity to
the location in. the name of James Galt of the -four hundred
acres withdrawn by Langham. This location having been
made in the name of a deceased person, is believed to be
void; as every other act done in the name of a deceased
person must be considered.
An entry made in the name of a dead man is a nullity; as
appears -from the d -cision in the case of M'Cracken's Heirs
vs. Beall and Bowman, reported, in'3 Marsh. 210: but such

an entry in Kentucky, under the statute of '1792, enures to
the benefit of the heirs of the deceased.
There is no pretence that the withdrawal
VoL. IV.-2 T

was made under

SUPREME COURT.
[Galt and others vs. Galloway and others.]

any authority from the heirs of Galt; such a presumption
would be rebutted by the subsequent location of the four
hundred acres, in the name of the deceased. An attempt'
has been made to show that the heirs of James Galt claim
all the lands in Ohio entered in his name; and among other
tracts, the four -hundred acres located by the withdrawn
warrant. But no other proof of the fact has been adduced,
except the vague declarations of David Collens, an .alleged
agent of William T. Galt, who acted for the other heirs; and
these are not evidence. If the heirs had sanctioned the
withdrawal, by claiming the new location, it would render
the act valid: and if such evidence be in the power of the
defendants, it should have been produced.
As the heirs are residents of another state, the lapse. of
time does not raise a very strong presumption against them.
No doubt can exist that Langham, in making the withdrawal, acted without authority; aud the question is presented, whether an act thus done shall bind the owners of the.
entry.
There is much plausibility and force in the argumefit, that
the entry of a withdrawal on the *record, being notice to
subsequent locators, must be held valid, though done with.out authority, in favour of rights subsequently acquired,
without notice of the improper withdrawal.
The law requires the principal surveyor to record entries
and surveys ; these, and any other matters which the law
requires to be recorded, must be received as conclusive of
the. facts ; and parol evidence cannot be received to invalidate them, unless fraud -be shown. But the law does not
require the withdrawal of an entry to be recorded. This is
an act-of the party, rendered essentially necessary to the
regularity of entries; but it cannot be considered of as high
validity as the-record of an entry or survey.
It operates as a notice to subsequent locators, and. must be
received as prima facia evidence of the right of the person
who caused the withdrawal to. be made. But ufiless the
law had required the principal surveyor to judge of the
authority by which the warrant is withdrawn. and to make

JANUARY TERM 1,930.

347

[Galt ana others vs.Galloway and others.]

the withdrawal on his record, can it bie considered as conclusive !
The principal surveyor may enter a withdrawal, as was
done in the case under consideration, at the instance of an
individual who has not the shadow of authority. If entries
and surveys may be destroyed in this manner, they must
be considered of little value., On the other hand, if the
authority of the person who-withdraws the warrant may be
contested under any circumstafices; entries subsequently
made may be annulled.
In the latter case, however, it is always in the power of
the locator, when he is about to enter a tract from which a
warrant has been withdrawn, to ascertain at whose instance
the withdrawal was made;. and this fact willenable him to
investigate the authority.under which the act was done. If
the withdrawal was 'made by the owner of the warrant or
the person who located it, the authority would be unquestionable. In the latter case, a.great lapse of time might
create doubts whether the power of ihe locator had not terminated, and this would lead-to particular inquiry.
If it appeared that the warrant had been withdrawn by a
stranger, should not that circumstance put the subsequent
locator on strict inquiry . He has the means of guarding
'his interests by reasonable diligence; and this the law always
imposes.
'But the owner of the original entry, if it may be withdrawn without authority, has no means by which his interests can be protected. The principal surveyor is not under
his control ; nor, by the usages of the office, is he answerable to him. for damages. It seems, therefore, that the'principles of justice, as well as of law, require the ict of withdrawal to be liable to objection, within the limits above
prescribed.
As the withdrawal in this case was without authority, it
was a void act; and consequently no right was acquired by
the subsequent location.
The decree of the circuit court must be afiirmed, so far
as relief is denied against Baker and Patterson, who are in
possession of the six hundrecd acres ;.and reversed, as to the

SUPREME COURT.
[Galt and others vs. dalloway and otbers.]

other defendants; and the cause is remanded to the circuit
court, with instructions to decree, that William Wilson, Andrew Gibson,. Matthew -Gibson, and-William Stephepson,
do, on or before the first.day of November 'next, execute to
the complainants, jointly 'or severally, a release of their interest in the prcrhises ; provided before that time they shall
have been paid for their improvements, under the statute of
Ohio... And the- circuit court is hereby directed to proceed
to ascertain the value of such-improvements, agreeably. to
the above statute "each -party to pay his- own costs in this
court.

-

This cause chme on to be heird on the transcrilit of the
record from the cir6uit- court ofIthe, Vnlted States, foe the
district if .Ohio, and was argued by cotingel ;- on cdnsideration whereof,-it isordered, adjudyed 5and. decreed by'this
court, that the decree of the said circuit'cobrt in.
this cause
be, and the same is hereby affirmed, so,.f ras relief is denied
by the said'c6urt against Baker and Patterson, who-are in
possession of the six hundred acres of.lanai ;-and. that the
said decree of the said circuit court in'.this cause.be, and'the"
same is hereby reversed as to the:-other'defendirnts. Aid- it
is further'ordered by this court, that this cause'be,.and t he
same is hereby remanded to.the said circuit court, with Instructions to decree; that William Wilson, Arydrew Gibson,
Matthew Gibsbn, arid William Stepherison, dd, on or before
the first day of November of. the year of our lord eighteen
hundred, and thirty,, execute to the complainants, jointly or
severally, a release bf'their interest -inthe premises; provided, thal before' that time they'sh'all ave bee, paid.'for
-their.improvements,. under the statute of Ohio; And that
the said circuit court-be, and the same ]s hdreby directed-to
:proceed. to ascertain the.value of such improvdments, agreeably to the above statute.. And 1hai the said court dd ind
act further in.
the premises -as to law and justice may appertin.- .Arid it isfurther ordered by this couit, that eatonparty
respectively in this cotirt pay his own costs aceruiig-in this
court.

