SUPREME COURT.

CA.DWELL, APPE.LLAwT v8. JoHN "TAGGAHT AwD MARY HIS
,]As
WI71, AND OTHERS.

Where a bill was filed to compel the execution of securities for money loaned,
which securides, it was alleged in the bill, were promised to be given upon
particular real estate purchased by the money loaned, and the complainants
-had omitted to make the prior mortgagees of the premises on which the securitles were required to be *given, parties to the bill, .the court said; it has
been urgedin reply to those grounds of reversal for want of parties or for want
of due maturation for a final hearing, that nothing is ordered to be mortgaged
or sold besides the interest of the party who is ordered to execute the mortgage, or whose ipterest is to be sold, whatever that may be. But this we
conceive to be an insufficient answer. It is not enough that a court of
.equity causes nothing but the interest of the proper' party to change owners.
Its decree should terminate and not instigate litigation. Its sales should tempt
men to sober in-estment, and not to wild speculation. Its process should act
upon known and definite interests, and not upon such as admit of no medium
of estimation. It has means of reducing every righl to certainty and precision;
and is therefore bound to employ these means in the exercise of its jurisdicioft.
The general rule is, "that however numerous the persons interested in the subject of a.sut, they must all be made parties, plaintiff or defendant, in order that
a complete decree may be made ; it being the constant aim of a court of equity
to do complete justice, by embracing the whole subjects; deciding upon and
settling the- rights of all persons interested in the subject of the suits; to make
and
the performance of the order perfectly safe to those who have to obey it,
to'prevent future litigation.
Where in the course of prpceedings in a suit in chancery in the circuit court, it
is apparent that the father has not presented the interests of his children for
protection, the court said; although there is no appeal taken in behalf of the
children, the court, while interfering to prevent the breach of a truit in behalf
ofthe father, can hardlybe expected to pass over without noticing an omission
in the father, amounting to a breach of trust, to the prejudice of his infant children. [201]

APPEAL from the district court of the western district
of Virginia.
The appellees, who are citizens of Maryland, filed their
bill in the court of the United States, for the.western district
of Virginia, in which the material allegations set forth are,
that on the 22d- of June 1809, Grizzle Taggart, mother of
John Taggart, conveyed to William Copeland Goldsmith and
James Caldwell, all her estate . for the uses and purposes

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Caldwel! vs. Tagjart et al.]

mentioned in the deed exhibited with the bill. A part of
the estate so conveyed consisted of -a debt due to the said
Grizzle from Keller and Foreman of Baltimore, which was
secured by a mortgage on valuable real Property, called the
Salisbury Mills.
That about the year 1817, Caldwell, who was the nephew
of Grizzle, importuned her and her son John and his wife, to
consent to permit him to receive the money due on the
mortgage, and to use it in- the purchase of an estate called
the White Sulphur E ?rings, situate in Greenbrier county,
Virginia, and which belonered to the heirs of Michael Bowyer; and to induce them .o yield their assent, be represented that-estate to be very valuable, aid promised that he
would encumber it (when purchased) by a mortgage to
secure the money which he should receive from Keller and
Foreman.
The complainants further state,, that consent was adcordingly yielded on the conditions proposed; in consequence
of which 'Caldwell (who was then sole trustee, the other
being dead,) received from Keller and Foreman the sum of
fifteen thousand seven hundred and sixty dollars and seventy
cents, in discharge of their mortgage, which he appropriated to the purchase of several shares.of the copartners of
the said Michael Bowyer in the said estate, or paid therewith for some shares previously purchased.
Some time afterwards, as the complainants further allege,
in order to- satisfy Grizzle Taggart of the propriety of his
purchase, and that the security promised, would be ample,
Caldwell brought her from her residence in Baltimore to the
White Sulphur Springs. That she returned alout the beginning.of October 1817, well pleased with the property;
that Caldwell promised to execute the mortgage immediately
after her return, but that in a very short time Grizzle departed this life, without it having been done.
A few days after this event, Caldwell, secretly and unknown to the complainants, as they state, executed a mortgage in favour of Jeremiah Sullivan and others,-on his interest in the White Sulphur Spring estate, to secure the
sum of twenty thousand dollars. A second -mortgage, to

SUPREME COURT.
[Caldwell vs. Taggart et al.]

-

secure the same debt, was executed by Caldwell, bearing
date the 15th. of September 1819, and both were duly recorded (and are in the record). It is stated that some
defect unknown to the complainants, was supposed to exist
in the mortgage of the 24th of October1817, which was
the reason for the second being executed.
IAfter the-death of Grizzle Taggart, her son, John Taggart,
as the complainants state, applied to Caldwell to execute
the mortgage which he had promised on the White Sulphur
Spring estate. He then informed the said John, that he had
executed the- mortgage of the 24th of October 1817, before mentioned, on which the said John upbraided him with
his breach of trust. Caldwell then promised to extinguish
the incumbrance out of the annual profits of the estate, and
to make provision for the debt ere; Lted s before mentioned.
Nothing however'was done; thb complainants being without any written .-evidence of their claim until the 9th of
Septeniber 1823, when Caldwell ext.uwuL a paper. exhibited
lvith the bill, acknowledging the stird of fifteen thousahd two
liundred.and sixty dollars and seventy cents to be due on
account of principal, and two thousand nine hundred dollars un account of interest.
'The'bill further states, that the mortgagees, Jeremiah Sullivan and-others, instituted a suit to foreclose the equity of
-redemptiun; but before the case was brought to a hearing,' a
certain Richard Singleton purchased the mortgage and obtained a transfer, thereof; that to secure the money paid for
the mortgage and other money advanced, he obtained a deed
of trust from-Caldwell on his interest in the estate, that is
four-sevenths obtained by purchase, and one-seventh in right
of his wife, who is a daughter of Michael Bowyer.
.The complainants further- state, that the profits of the said
estate are great; but that such is the imprudence of Caldwell that he has- never paid any part of the principal or interest on the mortgage, either before or since Singleton
acquired it; that he is incurring other large debts, and that
he has no other means to pay the money due to them except his interest in the White Sulphur Spring estate. They
insist that they hold an equitable lien on that estate so far

JANUARY -TERM 1'830.

' 193

[Caldwell vs. Taggart et al.]

as Caldwell's interest-extends; and they- pray that it may be
subjected to their debt; that another trustee may be appoint-.
ed to execute the trust created by the deed of the 22d of
June 1809, and for general relief.
To this bill James Caldwelf and his wife filed. a joint
answer, sworn to on the 30jh of September 1827, the material statements of which are the following:
He admits the execution of the -deed of the 22d of June
1809 ; though he states that lie-was not apprized of its existence until after it was recorded. He admits that he received
from Keller and Foreman the sum of fifteen thousand seven
hundred and sixty dollars and seventy cents, due -to Grizzle
Taggart, and embraced in the deed executed. by her; but he
alleges that he was her debtor to that- amount, and that tosecure the debt he had given a deed of trust to:Nicholas
Brice, as trustee. That at his request, Grizzle and her son
John consented to release his deed of trust, so as to enatble
.him, Caldwell, to sell the property (Salisbury Plaing) -to
Keller and Foreman, which 'was accordingly done, and he
received the money. -That the release exhibited with the
answer was executed by Nicholas, Brice, Grizzle. Taggart,
John Taggart and Mary his wife, when he was not present.
He alleges that Brice agreed,. on his, behalf, without consulting him, that the debt due from him to the said Grizzle,
or a part thereof, should be vested in bank stock, and that
the agreement and instrument of writing mentioned in,
the release contemplated that object; that he never executed any such writing, though he was informed before the
delivery-qf the release of the proposition to invest the money
due from him in bank stock, and refused to. accept iton that
condition, of -which the parties interested were informed ;
but that the rerease was -afterwards, by their consent, or
without objection from them, delivered. That he was unwilling to accept the release on the condition proposed, because his object in desiring it Was the use of the money.
He alleges' that the money which lie obtained from Keller and Foreman was applied to the payment of :his debts,
and not to the purchase-of the White Sulphur Springs, or any
interest therein, or any thing due therefor.
VOL. IV.-Z

194

SUPREME COURT.
*.Caldwellvs. Taggart et al.]

He denies that it .was his object to invest the money obtained by him- in the White Sulphur :Spring property; or
that he obtained the release by any such representation,
or by any promise to give an incumbrance thereon. That
he acquired the White Sulphur Spring property with other
funds, and never contemplated securing the debt due to
Grizzle Taggart on that property ; but expected to pay it
out of a large debt due to him from another person, which
he-failed to realize.
He admits that Grizzle Taggart visited the White Sulphur Springs ; that he returned with her in 1817 ; but denies
that she was brought there with the views mentioned in the
bill. 'He says be does not recollect, and has no reason to
believe that a single word passed between him and her in
relation, to his giving a mortgage or other lien on that property, either during the said visit, or at any other time,
Caldwell denies that there was any stipulation between
him and John Taggatt and Mary his wife, or either of them,
that the debt should be secured by a.mortgage on the White
Sulphur Spring property. He states that he does not recollect that the said John ever upbraided him with a breach
of trust. He admits that he had a conversation with
John in 1819, upon the subject of his giving the mortgage to secure other persohs, and 'that John Taggart then
said, that he ought, in the first place, to .have-secured
the debt in which he was interested. In reply to which, he
stated that he was willing to secure that debt by a: lien on'
the property, as soon as the other was extinguished, which
he supposed he would be able to do after the lapse bfsome
time. 'Previous to-this, Caldwell states that he hasbo recol-"
lection of having conversed with John Taggart on the subject of givirr, a lien, though the fa-t of his having executed
the other mortgage was known to John as early as 1817.
He states ihat he does not" bblieve that John Taggart
ever thought that he had deceived him. That there was
ho'privacy in giving the mortgages of the 24th of Octo-.
ber 1817 arid; 15th of September 1819, which he admits lie
executed-tosepure the same debt. As evidence to-show that

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Caldwell vs. Taggart et al.]

John did not believe he had beera, deceived, he exhibits a
letter from him, which is in the record."
He admits the execution of the paper exhibited with the
complainants' bill, bearing date the 9th of September 1823 ;
the p'endehcy of a bill to foreclose the equity of redemption
on the mortgage of the 15th of September 1819 ; the subsequent purchase of Richard Singleton, and the execution
of a deed of trust for his benefit, as stated in the bill.
James Caldwell then proceeds to state in his answer, the
interest which he has in the White Sulphur Spring property.
1. That his wife is entitled to one-seventh, as one .of the
heirs of Michael Boyer. 2. That sh' is entitled to another
seventh, by virtue of a conveyance made to her.by her brother, John Bowyer.' 3. He claims one-seventh, by purchase,
from William Bowyer, to whom he paid only one hundred
dollars of the purchase money. The contract is referred to,
and filed among the papers of this court. He states that
'William Bowyer is dead, having made a will which is exhibited and copied into the record. 4. He claims another
seventh by purchase from William Bedford, who is stated to
have purchased 'the interest of Thomas Bowyer; a son of
Michael. That for this interest he stands indebted six thousand dollars, with- interest, for which a: deed of trust was
executed on the property purchased, a copy of which is exhibited; and a suit has been brought to enforce this lien.
5. He claims the interest of .Jades Bowyer, another son of
the said Michael. The remaining two shares, he states, are
in Frances Bedford and Elizabeth Copeland, daughters of
Michael Bowyer.
Caldwell insists, that if, contrary to his expectation, the
complainants should establish a specific lien, on any part of
the said property, that it can only extend to such interests
as he owned when such lien originated ; and that it ought
not to be extended to defeat. the rights of others, or their
equitable lien for purchase money due to them from him:
and he requires that their rights shall be precisely ascertained and adjusted, before any effort shall be made to enforce such lien in favour of the complainants,/'and that partition shall be made according to the rights of the parties.

SUPREME COURT.
[Caldwell vs. Taggart et al.]

Caldwell further states, that an indenture was executed by
him and his wife; and the other persons interested, by which
it was agreed that all the lands and tenements of which
Michael Bowyer died'seised, should be divided between the
parties, by comnlissioners chosen for that purpose, except
two hundred acres, including the White Sulphur Springs,
buildings, &c. which should be held in common; that this
partition has never been made. He insists that if the cornplainants should establish the lien demanded by them, that
partition. should be made according to said agreement, and
his part in the two hundred acres first subjected.
He admits that the'White Sulphur Spring estate is valu.
able ; but regrets that the profits are not as great as estimated-by the complainants. He deems it unnecessary and
irrelevant to exhibit a schedule of his receipts and expenditures, or an account of his management and history of his
domestic aifairs. He states that he is desirous of paying all
the debts which he. owes, and particularly that claimed in
this'case, the justice of which lie has never denied; that lie
trusts an apology will be found for not having effected that
sooner, in the embarrassed situation of his affairs. 'Such was
the condition of the White Sulphur Spring property when
he obtainedpossession, that he has been compelled to incur
many expenditures to make it at all productive. He has well
founded 'hopes, that if he is suffered to continue his exertions, that in a few years he will be able to do full justice
to all the world; but that the interests of his creditors require
that he should not be destroyed by an unmerciful pressure
of their demands.
Caldwell objects to the measure of relief sought by the
complainants, as not being warranted by the laws of the
land, the principles of equity, or the dictates of justice. So
far as they set up any pretended parol agreement, he insists
that itf is within the operation of the statute of frauds and
perjuries; of which he prays the benefit, as if it had been
specially pleaded. Celdwell moreover states, that he feels
it his duty to protect the trust fund committed to his care
from any appropriation not contemplated by the donor.
He denies the right of the complainants to take that fund

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Caldwell vs. Taggart et aL.]

from the control of the trustees ; or to exhaust or expend the
principal; and says that the interest, or profits only, can be
applied to the use of the cestui que trusts.
The defendant, the wife of James Caldwell, states that
her -interests in the White Sulphur Spring property are,
in some respects, different from those of her husband ; -and
that she is advised that no. agreement made by him, in which
she has not concurred, in the forni prescribed bylaw, affects
her rights, derived by descent, devise, or conveyance. She
refers to a copy of the deed (which is not in the record)
executed by her brother John Bowyer, to show that she is
entitled to the sole and exclusive use and benefit of his
share. As to the interest of her deceased brother, William
Bowyer, she contends that she is entitled io-the same, or the
purchase money thereof, during her life, in the same exclusive and separate manner; and that after her death, the property passes to her children and nephew. She refers to
the agreement between her husband and the said William
Bowyer, to show that the latter had the privilege to -revoke
the contract, if the purcha e money should not be paid ;
which privilege she says passed to her by the will of the iaid
William, which privilege she claims to exercise, so far-as the
same may be necespary for her complete protection. She
prays- that she may be permitted to answer separately, or
that her rights may be investigated and decided, as if she
had done so. She says she has no knowledge of the justice
of the debt claimed, and how it originated. '
Depositions were taken in the- district court, establishing
certain facts which are sufficiently referred to in. the opinion of this court; and when the cause came on to a -hearing, the.
court made the following decree:
This cause came on to be heard on the bill, answers, exhibits, and examination of witnesses, and was argued by
counsel. On consideration whereof, and for reasons set
forth in a written opinion filed among the papers in this
cause, it is .adjudged, ordered and decreed, that the defend-'
ant, James Caldwell, do forthwith execute a proper deed of
mortgage to Silas H. Smith, who is hereby appointed trustee for that purpose, providing for the annual payment to

SUPREME COURT
ICaldwell vs. Taggart et al.]

the said trustee, of the legal interest on the sum of fifteen
thousand seven hundred and sixty dollars -and seventy cents,
the amount of the sum withdrawn by the said defendant from
the trust-fund; to commence this day; to be paid by the said
trustee to John Taggart during.his life, and on'his death, ihat
the principal, with any interest that may accrue after the
death of the said John, to be paid to the children of said
John"and Mary his wife, according to the provisions of the
deed executed by Grizzle Taggart on the 22d of June 1809,
and filed among the papers in this cause. And it is further
adjudged, ordered and decreed, that the said defendant pay
unto the plaintiff, John Taggart, the sum of seven thousand
five hundred and thirteen dollars and forty cents, being the
amount of interest now due on the said sum of fifteen thousand spven hundred and sixty dollars and seventy, cents; and
in case the said defendant shall-make default in the-payment
of the said- sum of money, so that the same or any part
.thereof shall remain due and unpaid' on the 5th of August
next; then it shall be the duty of the marshal of this court
to proceed to sell all the right, title and interest which the
defendant may have in the White Sulphur Spring estate, in
the county- of Greenbrier, for- ready money, having first
advertised the time and place of sale, in some newspaper
published in Richmond, Stau'nton, and Lewisburg, for thirty
days before such sale, and that he report his proceedings to
this court. And it is further adjudged, ordered and decreed,
that the said defendant pay unto the plaintiffs their costs ex*pended in the prosecution of this suit.
From this decree the said James. Caldwell prayed and obtained an appeal' to"the supreme court of the United-States.
The case was argued by Mr Wirt f6r the appellant, and
.by Mr Sheffy for the appellees.
Mr. Wirt contended, 1.That the necessary and proper
parties had not been called before the district court when
the decree was pronounced.
2. That as to those who had been called before the court;
the cause had not been matured for a decree, when the same
was pronounced.

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Caldwell vs. Taggart et al.]

3. That the decree is inconsistent with the relief prayed
for by the bill.
4. That the decree was not justified by the evidence in
the cause.
5. That even if such d decree could have been justified
by theIgeneral evidence, it would only have been after the
prior liens on the property had been marshalled, by the report of a master commissioner, .ajid the remaining interest
of Caldwell in the property .precisely ascertained and fixed
by the decree.
Mr Sheffy, for the appellees, argued; that there is no error
in the decree injurious to the rights of the appellant.
Mr Justice JOHNSoN delivered the opinion of the Court;.
The material facts of this case may be thus stated :
Grizzle Taggart, wishing to make provision for the family
of her son John Taggart, conveyed a considerable property
to one Goldsmith, and the defendant, James Caldwell, to
the use of herself for life, then to the joint use of John
Taggart and his wife for life, 'to the use of the survivor for
life, and finally, to be distributed among their children.
The children, together with their parents, preferred this bill;
The deed bears date the 22d of June 1809, and contains a
clause, empowering John and his wife, or the survivor of
them, to sell and dispose of the trust property, "and invest
it in other property subject to the like uses and trusts, and
to repeat the same as often as they may think beneficial for
them and their children."
In July 1812, Goldsmith being dead, Caldwell. preiailed
upon the cestui que trusts; Taggart and*wife, to permit him
to make use of a large sum of money raised upon the trust
property, and secured it to them by a mortgage on -the
Salisbury mills, executed to Nicholas Brice,.in terms adapted to the purposes of the original trust-deed. Afterwards,
in the year 1816, Caldwell prevailed upon the. cestui que
trusts to make anotber change of application of the trust
found in his favour, by executing a release of the mortgage
to enable him, as is alleged in the bill, to make a purchase

200

SUPREME COURT.
[Caldwell vs. Taggart et al.]

of the Sulphur Springs in Virginia, and under a promise to
mortgage that property when purchased, to secure the money according to the original trusts. *
These facts make out the complainants' case; and.exceptting the three allegations, that the last loan was solicited for
a specifi6 purpose, that -it was, applied to that purpose, and
under a promise that the property when purchased should be
mortgaged to secure the Joan according to the trusts; the
answer admits the facts'set out in the bill. It is then a clear
case f6r'relief; since the diefendant Caldwell, uniting in iimself
'the two characters of trustee and debtor to the trust fund,
Was guilty of a clear breach of trust in availing himself of
ihe release of 1816, without seeing the debt well secured,.
agreeably to the deed of 1809. He must in any event be.
decreed to substitute such s'ecurity as he ought to have
taken upon any other, change of investment effected in pursuance of the original trust. But the complainants here go
for specific relief, claiming to stand in the relati6n of cestui
que trusts or mortgagees of a'specified property; upon the
ground, as to the first relation, of having paid the consideration money, and as to the second, of having surrendered
their existing mortgage upon Caldwell's promise t6 execute
that in contemplation; and in one or the other or both.those
rights, to have the property placed in the hands of a receiver, that the income may be applied to eitinguish prior
,incumbrances, and leave the pr6perty free to satisfy this
claim. The bill also contains the prayer for general relief,
but the.specific claim must first be disposed of'before the
general prayer can be considered.
The court below sustained the allegati6ns of the bill relative to the promise to mortgage the specific property, and
-decreed Caldwell to execute a mortgage accordingly, to secure the, principal sum of fif~te*'- thotisand seven hundred
and sixty dollars. It then goes on to order tue interest calculated to the date of the decree, amounting to seven thousand
five hundred dollars, to be* paid by a day prescribed, or in
dafault theteof, that the property so ordered to be mortgaged
to secure the principal, shall be sold to ,aise the interest.
We think it clear that ilhere is an error in this, since the

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Caldwell vs. Taggart et al.]

interests of those in remainder would thus be sacrificed to
the first taker. And although' there .is no appeal taken in
their behalf, yet the court, while interfering to prevent the
breach of a trust, in behalf of the father, can hardly be
expected to pass over without noticing -an omission in the
father,,amounting to a breach of trust, to the prejudice of
his infant children.

In'an instance therefore in which a decree so obviously
needs reforming, it is without reluctance that the court lays

hold of such legal grounds for reversing it as may be considered under the appeal taken by the defendant.
The comlplainants in their bill- set. out, that sooni after receiving and using the release before nientioned, Caldwell
purchased the five-sevenths of the interest in the Sulphur
Springs, and shortly atter mortgaged the same 'to Sullivan
and others, to secure certain large sums which they had
assumed for him; that this mortgage was foreclosed according to. the laws of Virginia, and finally lifted and assigned.
to M-r Richard Singleton, who advanced thereon, for the relief of Caldwell, twenty-three thousand -dollars, to secure
which the latter executed a trust deed to A. Stevensonand
F. Bowyer, which it appears became absolute by failure of
payment more than a year since.
And when the defendant, Caldwell, as well as Frances
Bedford, come to answer to' the allegation of the purchaser
of the property in question, we"find that, although Caldwell has repeatedly executed eeds conveying or incumbbring fivr- sevenths of the whole, he does not pretend, to make
title to more than one-seventh, to wit: the share of James
Bowyer. The 'rest are either vested in his wife'or his children, or incumbered with prior liens,' which will probably
sweep the whole.
His answer also introduces into the cause a deed of partition, or one partaking of that character, executed by the
parties interested in this property, bearing date in 1810, by
which a division or distribution has been agreed upon.
adapted to ihe .nature -f the property, and in which every
individual has sQ distinct an interest that it-may..well be
questioned whether, until it is in some way carried into exeVOL. IV.-2 A

SUPREME COURT.
[Caldwell vs. Taggart et al.]

cution, it will be possible for any purchaser to know what
he is buying. This-deed has not been copied into the record sent up, but it is presumed that it could hardly have
been passed over in the court below.
Of the interests thus introduced into the cause by the answer, that of the children of Thomas Bowyer, as set out in
Mrs Bedford's answer, and that of the children of Mrs Cald,well and Mrs Copeland, as shown by the will of William
Bowyer, are wholly unrepresented.
And as to the interest of Mrs Copeland or her representatives, although there was an order for a decree nisi, the
decree no where appears to have been entered, nor evidence
of the service or return of the rule exhibited in the record.
In reply to all these giounds of reversal, for want of parties, or for want. of due maturation for a final hearing, it'has
been urged that nothing is ordeted to be mortgaged or sold
beside Caldwell's own interest, whatever that may be. But
this we conceive to be an insufficient answer. It is not enough
that a court of. equity causes nothing but the interest of the
proper party to change owners. Its decrees should terminate
and'not instigate litigation. Its sales should tempt men to
sober investment, and not to wild speculation. Its process
should Pct upon known and definite interests,- and not upon
such as admit of no medium of estimation. It has the means
of reducing every right to certainty and precision, and is
therefore bound to employ those means in the exercise of
its jurisdiction.
There is no want of learning in the books on this subject.
The general rule is laid down thus; "however numerous the
.persons interested in the subject of a suit, they must all be
made parties plaintiffs or defendants, in order that a complete decree may be made; it being the constant aim'of a
court of equity to do complete justice by embracing the
whole subject, deciding upon and settling the rights of all'
persons interested in the subject of a suit ; to make the performance of the order perfectly safe to those who have to
obey it, and to prevent future litigation." And again, "all
persons are to be made parties who are legally or beneficially interested in. the subject matter and result of the

JANUARY TERM 1830.
['Caldwell. vs. Taggaift et al.].

suit;" extending in most cases to :heirs at law, trusteeg, and
executors.
Thus, in a case in which a remainderman in tail brought
a bill against the tenant for life, to have the title deeds
brought into court, and there "wereannuitants on the rever-"
sion, and a child interested Under a trust term of years prior
to the limitation to the plaintiff, that is ihcumbrancqs prior
and posterior to the plaintiff; Lord Hardwicke, 3 Atk. -570,
refused a decree without first making them parties. So,
where husband tenant for-life, remainder to his wife for life,
remainder over, brought his bill without joining-the wife;
the objection was made and sustainedjon the ground that if
there was a decree against. the husband, it would not bind
the wife. I Atk. 289.
So, if an under mortgagee brings his bill to foreclose the
original mortgagor, he must make the first mortgagee a
party. 3 P.;W. 643. This is the relation in which the corn"
plainants here seek to place themselves in reference. to Mr
Singleton.
And there are various cases in which,*though .the heir at
law is not a necessary party, he is made such in practice,
and the reason assigned is to free the estate from every
blame that may lessen its'value at the sale.

2 Ves. 431.

*3

P. W. 91. 3 Br. Ch. Rep, 229, 365.
And so in cases of indefinite or blehded interests, all the
participators are necessary parties; as where a residue is
devised to several, or even devised by specified'shares.
It is clear then that this cause must go back, as well to
have the necessary parties made, as to have the deciee re-.
formed and reduced to legal pre'cision.
It is true this 'course might have been avoided, if this
court, upon looking through the complainants' case and
allowing the full 'benefit of every thing -that has been. legally
established, had seen that a decree might now finally be rendered against the appellant. It would then have been nugatory to send it back for parties. But such is not the conclusion to which this court has arrived; it has already expres-sed
the opinion, that to-a certain extdnt it is a very clear case
for relief, and all the diffi6ulties arise upon the nature of the

SUPREME COURT.
ECaldwell v8. Taggart et al.]

relief prayed and granted. There is no knowing what new
aspect may be given to the cause, when all the necessary
parties come in aind answer. Butas it is now presented, had
the prayer for specific relief upon the Sulphur Springs been
out of the cause, it would not have .been sent back without
such a decree against the defendant,-Caldwell, as the court
below ought to have rendered.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the district court of the United States for the
district of West Virginia, and was. argued by counsel; on
consideration whereof, it is ordered and decreed by this
court, that the decree of the said district court in this cause
be, and the same is hereby reversed, and that this cause
be, and the same is. hereby.remanded to the said district
court for further proceedings to be had therein? according to
law and justice.

