SUPREME COURT.

THeE

BANc

oF THE UNITED STATES, PLAINTIFFS IN ERnOR
LEvl TYtxan, DEFENDANT IN ERtot.

.e.

Action by the indorsees against the indorser of a promissory note, drawn and
indorsed in the state of Kentucky.
The statute of Kentucky authorising the assignment of notes, is silent as to the
duties-of the assignee, or the nature of the contradt created by the assignment..
It only declares such assignments valid, and the assignee capable of suing in
his own name, But the courts of that state have clearly defined'his rights,
duties and obligations resulting from the assignment. The assignee cannot
maintain an action on the mere non-payment of the note and notice thereof,
until the holder of the note has made use of all due and legal diligence to recover the money from the drawer; whose engagement is held to be, that he will
pay the amount, if after due and diligent pursuit the maker is found insolvent.
[380]
The principles of the law of Kentucky relative to the liability of indorsers of
promissory notes, and proceedings to establish the same, as settled by the decisions of the cotrts of Kentucky. [381]
A judgment does not bind lands in the state of Kentucky. The lien attaches
only from the delivery of the execution to the sheriff. It then binds real and
:personal property, held by legal title. An execution, returned, is no lien on any
property not levied on; and no new lien can be acquired, until a new execution
is put into the hands of the sheriff; and none can issue while a former levy
is in force. Any delay then by the assignee, enables the debtor to alienate
his property in the interval between judgment and the execution reaching the
sheriff, as well as between the return of one and the lien acquired by a new
execution. [383]
By the law of Kentucky, no equitable interest in Yeal or personal. property,
unless it is held by mortgage, deed of trust, or other incumbrance, canbe taken
in execution. A capias ad satisfaciendum is the only mode by which the
equitable estate of a debtor or his choses in action can be in any way reached
by any legal process. It may be the means of coercing the payment of the
debt, and it must -therefore be used. The return of nulla bona to an execution
is in that state the only evidence of there being no property of the debtor on
which a levy can be made. It is not evidence of there being no equitable interest which is beyond the reach of such process; orof his not having that kind
of property, on which a levy can be made. [383] .
After judgment obtained in the circuit couit of the United States against the
drawer of the note, a capias ad satisfaciendum was issued against-him by the
holder, and he was put in prison. Two justices of the peace orderea his discharge, claiming to proceed according to the law of Kentucky in the case of
insolvent debtors; and the-jailor permitted him to leave the prison. The jailor
made himself and his securities liable for an escape, by permitting the prisoner
to leave the prison. Held, that the neglect of the holder of the note to proceed against the jailo and his securities, prevents his making of the indorser
liable for the amount of the note. [388] "

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Bank of the United States vs. Tyler.]
The court find no express decision of the courts of Kentucky enjoining a plaintiff
who has sued the drawer of a promissory note, and intends to charge the indorser, to proceed against a jailor and his sureties, when the defendant has
been suffered to escape; yet by the spirit of all the decisions, he is bound to do
so. The general principle of all the cases is, that a plaintiff must pursue with
legal diligence 21I his means and remedies, direct, immediate or collateral, to.
recover the amount of his debt from the drawer of the note, or of any one else
who has put himself, or has by operation of law been put.in his place. [390]
The decision of this court in the case of The Bank of the United' States vs.
Weisiger, examined and confirmed.

ERROR to the circuit court of Kentucky.
This was an action, by the bank of the United States,
against Levi Tyler, upon two promissory notes ; one for three
thousand nine hundied dollars, dated the 2d of May 1821,
and payable sixty days after date, drawn by Anderson Miller, in favour of-John T. Gray. It was negotiable, and payable, without defalcation, at the office of discount and deposit
of the bank of the United States at Louisville, Kentucky,
for value received. John T. Gray issigned the note to Levi
Tyler, and Levi Tyler assigned it th the bank.
The other note was of the same date, for three thousand
eight hundred dollars, payable t6- Samuel Vance; assigned
by said Vance, and by the defendant. In all other respects,
it was like the note above stated.
On thie 24th of September 1821, suit was brought by the
bank against the'drawer, Anderson Miller, in the circuit
court of the United States, for the district of Kentucky,-for
the first mentioned note; and judgment was obtained at the
November term 182i.
On, this judgment a fieri facias issued, bearing date the
2gth of December 1821, returnable on the first Monday of
March, being the 4th day of the month following, which was
in the hands of the marshal on the 19th of Ja'auary 1S22;
and the, plaintiffs introduced as a witness the clerk of the
court, who stated; that it had been his uniform habit, before
and since the obtentiori of the said judgment, to issue executions on all judgments obtained at the last preceding term,
and place them in a window of his office, from whence it was
the habit and custom of the marshal to 'take them. That it
generally required from twelve to sixteen dave after the

SUPREME COURT.
[Bank of the United States -s. Tyler.]

rising of the court, to prepare and issue the executions of
the preceding, term. That at the November term of the
court, at which the before mentioned judgment was obtained, the court adjourned on the 17th of December.
To this fieri facias the marshal returned a levy, and that
he had not time to sell before the return day. The return
was filed the 28th of.March 1822. On the 3d of April 1822,
a venditioni exponas iss'ied, returnable the first Monday in
June. Itwas returned on the t7th day of June, "unsold for
want of bidders," and the sale was postponed; and alias
venditioni exponas issued, tested the 17th of June, returnable on the first Monday in September, returned on the 13th.
The sales, amounting to ten dollars and fifty cents, were credited to another execution.
The-26th of September 1822, antother fieri facias issued,
which was levied on slaves, and sale made. It was returned
the 9th of December 1822. The proceeds of the sale were
one thousand three hundred dollars.
The 19th or December 1822, arother fieri'facias issued,
andreturned, "levied on property mentioned, and not sold
for wVant of time." This was returned on the first Monday
in M arch 1823.
The 20th of March 1823, a venditioni exponas issued, and
wds returned "unsold, for want 'of bidders." The return
was filed on the 30th of June, returnable the first Monday'
in June.
The lst of July 1823, another venditioni exponas. issued,
and was returned "unsold, for want of bidders.' *Thereturn wds filed the 12th of September 1823.
The 19th of September 1823, another venditioni exponas
issued, and the property was sold. The proceeds amounted
to four dollari and fifty cents.. It was returned the 19th
of December 182S.
The 19th of December1823, another fieri facias issued,
to. March 1824, and was returned, " no property found to
satisfy the execution, or any part thereof." .Returned the
16th ofMarch 1B24.
The'16th of March 1824, a capias ad satisfaciendum issued, under which the defendant was committed ; qnd so

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Bank of the United States vs. Tyler.],

returned on the 26th of April 1624.

Tlie commitmerit was

to March 1.824.
The ,proceedings in the suit against Anderson Miller on
the other note were also given in evidence. They also terminated in his committal to prison.
On the 27th of March 1624, two justices of Kentucky
discharged Anderson Miller-from prison.
Upon this evidence, the court instructed the jury to find
for the defendant; and the jury found accordingly. The
plaintiffs excepted, and the judge signed a bill of exceptions.
The plaintiffs offered witnesses, to prove, that Anderson
Miller was notoriously insolvent when the note fell due, and
had so continued ever since. Thd court rejected the evi-"
dence, and the plaintiffs excepted. This exception is stated
in the bill..
The plaintiffs contend, that the court erred in charging
the jury to find for the defendant; because they say. it was
fully proved that due diligence was used against the drawer;
and the remedies afforded by the.law were exhausted, without obtaining the money, and therefore they were entitled
tQ recover from the indorser.
They contend, also, that, under the circumstances of. this
case, the evidence offered- of Miller's insolvency, ought to
have been received.
The case was argued by Mr Sergeant, for the plaintiffi in
error; and. by Mr Wickliffe and MrBibb, for the defendant.

-

Mr Sergeant stated, that the first question was, whether
due diligence had been used.
The second, whether the proceedings have been carried so far as to establish the right of holders to sue the
indorser or assignor of the note.
1. The principles of the case were settled at the last term,
in the case of The Bank of the United States vs. Weisiger,
2 Peters, 331. They decide this point, at all events; and it
is thought the whole case.
It is to be remarked, that it appears on the face of these

notes, .that they were drawn for the purpose of discount;
VO.

IV.-2 W

SUPREME COURT.
[Bank.of the United States vs. Tyler.]

they were indorsed for the same purpose ; and they were
discounted for.Levi Tyler, for value received by him.
The diligence used in the commencement of the suit appears from the statemcnt of the case. It was brought to the
first term, and in time to obtain a judgmentat that term.
No case in Kentucky requires more than this. The holder.
is not obliged to run a race against time ; nor to sue the first
term, if judgment could not be 6btained. The general
phrase is,"it must be in reasonable time." Trimble vs.
Webb, I Monroe, 100. Oldham vs. Bengan, 2 Litt. 132.
Collyer vs. Whitaker, 2 Marsh. 197.
Bail was demanded, which would be necessary if non est
inventus was returned, 1 Bibb, 542, but not otherwise. 2
Marsh. 197. Tyler was the bail.
2. Judgment was obtained the first term, and a fieri facias
issued on the same day, and was on the same day in the
hands of the sheriff. 2 Peters, 333,.348, 349.
The fieri facias in thd second case is said not to have
been in the marshal's hands until the 9th of January; but
this is probably a mistake; and if it was not, itwas in good
time. 2 Peters, 348. It was also immaterial ; because the
other fieri facias covered the whole property, as the return
shows; and there was nothing to levy upon.
Was it necessary to issue two writs of fieri facias 9 From
that time forward there was unceasing diligence; the process
being followed up as fast as it was returned. It is true that
the marshal returned he had not time to sell; but this was not
because the writ came too late; it was because he found
nothing to levy upon. until the 28th of September 1822 ; or
perhaps it is the ordinary course. Tyler was conusant of all"
this, for he was one of the defendants in one of the three
executions.
,Suppose however the officeir did wrong; are the plain-.
tiffs responsible for that. It has never been so settled.
Postlethwaite vs. Garrett, 3 Monroe, 346. Nothing was lost
by it ; for the property was secured, such as it was, tnd a
venditioni issued immediately in each case. The proceedings went-on until the drawer was committed to prison; and
that was all that could be done, and no more was required.

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Bank of the United States s. Tyler.]'

Young vs. Cosby, 3 Bibb, 227. Here the diligence was
fairly exhausted and at an. end. The bail was discharged
by this commitment, and there was no recourse to him..
Have the proceedings been carried so far as to entitle the
holder to sue the indorser or assignor q
It is contended that. there is an immediate right of action
against the indorser by the holder, after the confinement of
the drawer, which cannot be divested but by his own act or
consent. He is i.ot bound to take a single step to keep the
drawer in prison. Young vs. Cosby, 3 Bibb, 227.* Authorities upon this principle, I Marsh. 535. 2 Bibb. 34.
All this has been done; and the burthen of proof that any
ihing has been omitted is thrown upon the defendan*t.. The
plaintiffs are not bound to protract the imprisonment one
moment. Bank of the United States vs. Weisiger, 2 Peters,
331. In Virginia the requirements are far short of this.
Violett vs. Patten, 5 Cranch, 142.
Ought the law of Kentucky, which professes to be the
law of'Virginia, to be carried further than judicial decisions
in that state have'carried itq The point to be established
is the insolvency of the drawer; or his inability to pay, to a
reasonable extent. Not that every possible chance of getting the money by any means is'exhausted. That point was
reached.
But it is insisted, that a new career was to be begun. It
is founded upon this argument, that the justices had no authority to discharge ; that it was therefore an escape, and
the jailor, and his sureties are liable.
Supposing all this to be correct, is it necessary for- the
plaintiffs to proceed! It will be reeolleeted that there was
no request to this effect. 'There is no decided case which
gives any countenance to the position. The case of a replevy
bond has no'analogy.
But this proceeding would be collateral to the suit. It
would be a new departure on a different line of operations,
the first suit being only the base.
Were the jailor and his sureties liable by the Kentucky
law ? This cannot be decided for want of 'evitlence. Were
there any sureties of the jailor, and to; what amountq

SUPREME COURT.
[Bank of the United States vs. Tyler.]

Were they responsible men, or were they insolvent. Was
the pursuit worth the cost! The defendant should have
shown this by evidence. He was to ask the pursuit to be
undertaken, at his cost and for his account. The claim on
the plaintiffs seems wholly inadmissible.
But the question presented is one of some peculiarity. Is
there an escape, and who is lible for it? This ,is a new
question, considering the circumstances. The United States
have no prison in Kentucky, nor is the'marshal furnished
with any place of imprisonment in Kentucky, unddr his own
jurisdiction. The jailor is not of his appointment. The
moment he delivers a prisoner to the. jailor, his authority is
at an end.,
- The matter depends on the. resolutions of -congress, and
the acts of Kentucky. Resolution of September 23d, 1789.
Ii'g. Ab.489. Of March 3d, 1791, Ing. Ab. 496. Of March
'3d, 182 1, Ing. Ab. 507. Acts of Kentucky, 2 Litt. 57, 369.
The marshal therefore cannot be liable. Is the jailor 1
He derives his authority from the state of Kentucky, and this
discharge'is under the law of Kentucky. Itis a complicated question.
Two questions present themselves:
1. Is it. required by the obligation of due diligence in
Kentuckyto issue a capias ad satisfaciendum for the purpose.
of imprisonment, since the act abolishing imprisonment for
debts . Does the law require thit to be ,done, which the
same law declares ought not to be done ?
2. Can a citizen of Kentucky, and one of the law makers,
insist that this ouiht to be done ? Suppose it to be clear
that the plaintiffs had a right of action, were they bouid to
pursue it?
This, is a questioh of evidence in the ease, and it is contended the evidence was inadmissible. Violett vs. Patton,
5 Cranch, 14.2. 2 Marsh. 255. 2 Bibb, 34. 3 Bibb, 227.
Mr Wickliffe and Mr Bibb, for the defendant.
This court has uniformly expressed its disposition to adopt
the Construction which the courts of a state have given of the
laws of the state. Elmendorf vs. Taylor, 10 Wheat. 160.

JANUARY TERM 183o.
[Bank of the United States vs. Tyler.]

In'this opinion the principle is clearly recognized, that the
judicial department of every government is the appropriate
expounder of the legislative acts of the government.
The law of Kentucky in relation to promissory notes, is
applicable to those notes which are the foundation of this
action; for the notes were drawn and executed in that state,
and there assigned. The law of Kentucky is different from
the usual commercial law. The responsibility. of an assignor
is to accrue after due diligence, by suit, against the drawer.
Smallwood vs. Woods, 1 Bibb, 544. Drake 'vs. Johnson,
Hard. 223. Duncan vs. Littell, 2 Bibb, 35, 290.
The statute -of Kentucky -which authorises the assignment of such notes, omits thfe-words-" in the same manner as
bills of exchange" contained iii the statute of Anne. I Dig.
Laws of Kentucky, 99.
. The declaration id this case treats the notes as assigned
under the law of Kentucky, and the attempt of the plaintiff
has been to make out a case of diligence under the Kentucky law; and this' is essential to a recovery.
By the decisions of the supreme court of Kentucky, the
responsibility of an assignor of a bond .or note is made to
depend upon due diligence by suit -against the maker to
compel payment. The assignor-must use every compulsory
process afforded by law; and he must use it uitil the insolvency of the maker of the note is established, until the suit
and all the incidental remedies, however ramified, prove
insufficient. Smallwood vs. Woods, 1 -Bibb, 542. Hogan
vs. Vance, 2 Bibb, 35. 4 Bibb. 287. Marsh. 523. 3
Marsh. 60. 1 M6n. 103. 5.Litt. 331. 3 Bibb. 7. 1
Marsh. 230.
. From these cases the consequences are inevitable :that a
failure to sue out successive .executioos in due time until the
officer returns "no property" is negligence ; that the first
and every successive process must be diligently pursued, un-,
til the propertyis exhausted and the-bod' taken ; and all the
remedies have heen employed and have failed.
Due diligence is a qb'stion of law to the court, when the
facts are ascertained. M'Kenney vs. &I'C6nuel, 1 Bibb.
239. Smallwood vs. Woods, 544.

SUPREME COURT.
[Bank of the United States vs. Tyler.]

In the case before the court, the facts were ascertained
by the plaintiffs' evidence, upon which the motion for. instructions which prevailed 'was founded; the plaintiff produced none. The rules of the law of Kentucky being fully
established upon the authorities cited, the principles they
enforce will be applied to this case,
1.-By showing that the plaintiffs as assignees have not used
due diligence against the maker, between the judgment and
the capias ad satisfaciendum.
2. That the plaintiffs having failed to proceed against the
jailor for an escape, cannot have recourse to the assignor.
1. The plaintiffs have been guilty of crassa negligpntia,
between the judgmient and the capias ad satisfaciendum.
If suit must be brought to the first term (4 Monroe, 15);
why so. Because execution would otherwise be delayed.
Not only suit, but execution must be sued in due time; and
although a fieri facias was sued in due time, yet a delay in
pursuing the execution by capias ad satisfaciendum was adjudged negligence. 2 Marsh. 523. What is due diligence;
what is negligence in proceedings under executions ; must
be tested by the properties and effects which the law gives
to executions in respect to three subjects.
1. As to priority between 'creditors, where all cannot be
satisfied.
'2. In overreaching alienations by the debtor to bona fide
purchasers.
3.' As to the command to the officer tolevy or compel
the debtor, or the obedience due by the officer to the pre.cept.
I -and 2. As to priority of lien amongst creditors, and the
lien which overreaches alienations by the debtor; the statutes
of Virginia and of Kentucky declare that the property shall
be bound only from the delivery of the execution to an
.officer; and to that end he is required to indorse the time
of delivery. Laws of Virginia, 1748, p. 276, see. 10. Laws
of Kentucky, I Dig. 513, 483.
The common law doctrine of relation to the beginning of
the term by judgments is abolished, and the lien commences
as has been stated.

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Bank of the United States -s. Tyler.]

By the express provisions of the statutes, and- decisions
under them, it appears :
That if several executions issue at the same time against
the same debtor, and are delivered to the same officer, that
which comes first to the officer's hands must be first satisfied, and it does not bind until delivery.
An execution issued and delivered, creates no'lien afterthe return day, except upon such property as may have been
seized. Tabb vs. Harris, 4 Bibb, 29. . Daniel vs. Cockpen's
Executors, 4 Bibb, 532.
Thus, diligence in delivering the execution to the officer,
is of the highest importance. In the exercise of the federal
jurisdiction of the courts of the United States, the obligation
to pursue with the utmost diligence the delivery of the execution, is more important; for between conflicting jurisdictions,
the officer who first levies has the right to retain the property.
Due diligence then enjoins a speedy delivery of the process to the officer, and that the lien shall be'preserved by
keeping the .execution in the hands of the officer until a return of the property.
By the statutes of Virginia and Kentucky, one execution
can be sued after another, if the first be not returned and
executed. The great object of this lIaw is, that the plaintiff
may maintain a continued -and unbroken lien upon the
debtor's property.
The laws of Virginia and Kentucky upon these points are
the same, and the practice in the circuit court of the United
States has been to mould, their executions so as to embrace
lands as well as goods and chattels ; and this is shown by
the decisions of this court in Wyman vs. Southard, 10
Wheat. 1. Bank of the United States vs. Halstead, 10
Wlieat.'57. The question is therefore disentangled of any
difficulties in the fornis of the execution.
To apply these principles to the facts of the case; and first,
as to the note for three thousand nine hundred dollars.
In the executions against Miller, the plaintiffs were guilty
of gross negligence.
The first execution is:fested the 29th of December 1822,
and there was a delay of twenty-one days between the test

SUPREME COURT.
[Bank of the United States vs. Tylbr.]

and the delivery; and during this delay, other creditors
might have come in, andthe debtor might have alienbd his
property. , This exechtion was levied on specified property,
without aby return that there was no other; and a subsequent
execution was levied*on other property than that, which
was sold for one thodsand three hundred dollars. Had the
execution been issued earlier, the officer might have sold before the return day.
Although the fieri ficias was returnable the first Monday
in March, the venditioni to compel the officer to sell was
delayed until the 3d of April 1822. When that was delivered does not appear.
That venditioni exponas was returned "not sold for want
of bidders, and sale postponed by agreement," indorsed on
execution No. 2130; but when that was returned doed not
appear.
The next venditioni exponas to compel the sale, was not
issued until the 17th of June 1822; and the property'was sol4
on the 1st and 2d of July.
. From the time of this sale, (2d July,) the plaintiff
delayed
to put another fierifacias into the officer's hands until the Ist
day-of Octoler: ninety days were suffered to elapse without
any effort.
Had the plaintitf been vigilant, he would immediately
after the sales in July have issued another fieri facias. to bind
the debtor's property.
That there was other property appears by the execution
and sale on this second.fieri facias; and also by the levy on
the third fieri, facias.
These delays were so great; there was such a want of vigilence and due superintendence; such was the careless manner in which the executiohs were suffered to limp and halt
and drag, by intervals, between -the one execution 5nd another; that it has taken from -the29th of December 1821, to
the 16th of March 1824, a period of twenty-six months and
upwards, before the capis ad satisfaciendum issued.
*During these twenty-six months, there were three levies
and three sales; and the process upon which these three
levies and sales were compelled, were at intervals which
evince a total inattention on the part of the plaintiffs.

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Bank of the United States vs. Tyler.]

His own testimony shows that he relied on the clerk and
the marshal.
Neither clerk nor marshal have, by law, authority to issue
executions, unless ordered.
They are not, virtute officii, bound to act as agents of the
plaintiff, in ordering and delivering executions. If they'do
so, it must be by special authority given by the plaintiff beforehand, or by adopting their acts afterwards. If the plaintiff has chosen to rely on the clerk and the marshal, to do
that for him which it was his duty to do, he must abide the
loss by such delays a'shave been suffered. The clerk is to
issue execution, when ordered, and of the kind directed,
whether fieri facias or capias ad satisfaciendum or elegit or
levari facias; the marshal is bound to receive such when
offered to him. It is the business of the plaintiff to direct
the clerk to issue, and it is the business of the plaintiff to
deliver to the marshal the execution when issued. It is no.
excuse for the delays which have happened, for the plaintiff
to say, it was the clerk's habit to issue executions and put
them into a window in his office, and it was the habit of the
marshal to call and get them. A reliance upon such habits
shows the want of that superintendence and vigilance which
was due from an assignee who expects recourse against the
assignor.
It- is no excuse for the lapse of time between the return
day of one execution, and the teste of the ensuing execution, to say that the marshal did not return the execution at.
the return day. He was bound to return the execution according to the command of the precept; and was subject to a
fine and penalty for failing to return the precept at the day
appointed.
At each rule day on which the process was returnable, the
plaintiff had a right to call for it, to demand it ; to proceed
-against the officer for a failure to return the'precept according to its mandate. Moreover; whether returned, or not,
he had the right by law on thd rule day, and even before, to,
sue out any oth'er execution and deliver it, so as to preserve
his lien. The officer, upon such second execution, would'of
VOL. IV.-2 X
.

SUPREME COURT.
[Bank of the United States vs. Tyler.]

course regulate his conduct by what he had done on the previous execution.
So much for the delay between judgment and capias ad
satisfaciendum on the note of three thousand nine hundred
dollars, by Miller to Gray, who assigned to Tyler, who assigned to the bank.
The two notes, and the process upon them, cannot be
brought to the aid of each other. The parties are different,
and each must be pursued independently. 2 Marsh. 523,
198, 199. Upon the principles already stated, and supported by authorities, the proceedings against the maker of the
note for three thousand eight hundred dollars, are liable to
charges of the most gross and entire negligence.
The fieri facias issued on the 29th of Decembei 1821, and'
did not come to the hands of the marshal until the 19th of
January 1822, nearly one month qfter its issue. From the
return day, the first Monday in March, until the 3d of April
1822, there was no movement, when a venditioni exponas is-'
sued, returnable in June; and then there was no sale, but
this was postponed by agreement. The next venditioni was
issued on the 17th of June, and sales were made on the Ist
and 2d of July; and from that time the process was suffered
to sleep until the 28th of De6ember 1822, a period of one
hundred and seventy d.ays. Even between the return day in
September, and the teste of the next execution in December,
there was an inierval of one hundred and eleven days.
2. The defendant having failed to proceed against the
jailor for the escape, cannot have recourse to the assignor.
The cases before cited are adjudicated upon the principle,
that not only the'direct remedy by suit, but the incidental
remedies and securities given by law, and arising in the course
of the suit, must all be resorted *to. The remedy must be
pushed in all its ramifications. Owings vs. Grimes, 5 Litt.
331. Parker vs. Owings, 3 Marsh. 60. M'Ginnis vs. Burton, 3 Bibb, 7. Campbell vs. Hopson, 1 Marsh. 230.
That the jailor and his sure'ties are liable for an escape
'cannot be denied. The discharge was altogether unlawful:
the jailor should have resisted, or have refused to obey the

JANUARY TERM 1830.
EBank of the United States vs. Tyler.]

order to discharge the drawer. Cited Hubbard vs. Newhouse, I Bibb, 555.
The law of Kentucky gives the use of ihe prisons of the
state to the United States; and declares it to be the duty of
the jailor to receive persons committed under the authority
of the United States, and to keep them.until discharged according to law,- 2 Dig. 679 ; and the jailor gives bond with
sureties.
The statute of Kentucky abolishing imprisonment for debt,
does not operate upon the process of the courts of the United
States. The justices had no colour for the jurisdiction they
assumed.
. The plaintiffs have a remedy for the escape, and no person but the plaintiffs can pursue it. It is a remedy incidental to the action against the drawer, and they should have
employed it before they instituted this suit.
The case of the Bank'of the United -States vs. Weisiger
has no analogy to this. There- the complaint- against the
plaintiff was, that he had been too swift.
Mr Sergeant, in reply, said; it was adrmitted that the suits
had been regularly brought, and in good time; and the 'only
question upon this point was, whether the subsequent proceedings were also in time. le contended that they were,
upon the authority of adjudged cases in Kentucky: and it is
not necessary to go further than -the judicial decisions of that
state had gone.
As to the obligation to pursue the officer for an escape,
the claim is ungracious, after cnarging the plaintiff with the
length of his pursuit.
No decision was ever yet made upon which the position assumed rests. If there is no decision, there is no such obli..
gation. The law of the case is one of judicial proceedings.
No law exists, unless.found in these decisions. But it'has
been decided that the holder of a note is not bound to pursue extraordinary remedies. This is an extraordinary remedy.
And why should, it be required '. The officer is guilty of

380

SUPREME COURT.
[Bank of the United States vs. Tyler.]

no injury; for the insolvency of the drawer of the note is
manifest. It cannot be doubted.
Mr Justice BATDWiN delivered the opinion of the court.

In this case the plaintiffs sue, not as the indorsers of two
notes, negotiable under the statute of Anne, which has
never been adopted in Kentucky, but as assignees for a valuable consideration of promissory.notes,.which are assignable
by the- laws of that state, and on which the assignee may
sue in his own name. .1 Kentucky Digest, 99..
The firsi note was drawn by Anderson Miller, dated at
Louisville, May 2, 1821, for three thousand nine hundred
dollars, in favoui of John T. Gray, negotiable and payable
sixty days after date, at the office of discount and deposit of
the Bahk bf the United States, Louisville, Kentucky, for
value received. The note 'vas assigned in the following
manner. "For value received, I assign the within note to
Levi Tyler or order, John T; Gray, by Levi Tyler, his attor-*
ney." "For value received, I assign tlie within to the president, directors and company of the Bank of the United
States, Levi Tyler."
As this note was drawn, assigned, and payable in Kentucky,
the obligations and rights of the parties must depend on the
laws of that state.
The statute authorising the assignment of notes is silent
as to the duties of the assignee, .or the nature of. the contract crehted by the'assignment. It only declares such assignment valid, and'the assignee capable of suing in his own
npame;,but the courts of that state have clbarly defined the
rights, duties, and obligation resulting from the assignment.
:, The assignee cannot maintain an action on the mere nonpayment of the note and notice thereof, or of a protest to
the assignor, until the holder -of the nate has made use of
all due and legal diligence to recover the money from the
drawer. But if this fails, then the assignor may be resorted to on his assignmeni; which is held to be an engagemen't
to, pay the amount of the note; if, after due and diligent pursuit, the maker is insolvent. This contract results from the
act of assignment, Without any express agreement to be an-

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Bank of the United States vs. Tyler.]

swerable; the law is the same, whether this contract is expressed in terms, or is implied from the, assignment; the
rights and duties of the parties are the same in both cases.
4 Bibb, 286. 1 Mirsh. 229. This case may then be considered as an assignment of a'promissory note, with an ex-.
press promise by the assigior to pay if by legal process and
due diligence the assignee is unable to recover the amount
due from the drawer, Viewed in this light the case ignore
readily comprehended.
The means which the assignee is bound to use, the time
within which he must commence, and the diligence with
.which he m'ust pursue his legal remedies against the maker,
and the extent to which he must carry them,-.have been the,
subject of much litigation and discussion in the courts of
Kentucky: they have. however adopted the following as
principles, which must be taken to be the law of the. state.
That the assignee is not bound to run a race against tbne,
or to -use. extraordinary means ; that he is not required to
prosecute a drawer or obligor farther than a man of ordinary
prudence and diligence would do in a case where he was
solely and exclusively interested. But in order to' bring
himself within these rules, he must commence a suit against
the drawer at the filrst term after the note becomes due, if a
judgment could be obtained then. He must sue within such
time, -before the~term, as will authoris'e him to procure judgment. After siit is brought, he must prosecute'it to judgment without delay, or giving time to the maker of the note.
Thbugh he is notoriously insolvent,-and dies on the third day
of the first term after the note becomes due, and hio administration is taken out on his estate, the assignor is discharged,
if no suit has been brought. -After judgment, there must be
the same diligence in pursuing the debtor's property by dxecution as in the commencement of the -suit. There must
be no delay in putting the execution into the hands of the
sheriff, or in making sale of the propertylevied on; he must
continue the process of'execution until- the property of the
drawer is exhausted, and the sheriff returns nulli bona to
the last execution; and after his-insolvency is thus ascertained, a capias ad Aatisfac.iendumnmust be taken for his body :

SUPREME COURT.
[Bank of the United States vs. Tyler.]

and if he is committed, the assignee must show what has become of the debtor, -and how he has been discharged.
If the debtor assigns property, it must be sold. If property
is taken in execution, and replevin bond given, the bond
must be put in suit ; if there is bail to the a tion, and the
principal cannot be taken on a capias ad satisfaciendum, the
bail must be pursued; and all incidental and collateral remedies, which may accrue to the assignee, must'be adopted and
prosecuted; and the discharge of the drawer by the insolvent act, a.t thesuit of a third person, will be no excuse for
a.ny relaxation in the diligence required to fix the assignor;
who is suable only after the exhaustion of all legal means of
obtaining payment.
The cases on this subject have been collected in a note
in 2 Peters, 338, 339, 340; and were all cited and ably commented on by the counsel on both sides.
It is -believed that the principles which exat. such an
unusual degree of vigilance from the assignee, are peculiar to
the jurisprudence of Kentucky; but they have been established by a long series of cases- adjudged in their highest courts
for many years .; they have long formed'the law of that state
as to notes and bonds assigned under. their statute; and the
legislature has not thought proper to change it. The courts
in Virginia have given a very different .construction to their
statute on the same subject; and there are no decisions in
any state which have extended the rule of diligence so far.
But this court has always felt itself bound to respect local
laws; however peculiar, in all cases where they do not come
-in collision with Jaws-uf ligher authority and more imposing
obligation. Such a case is not presented in the record now
under our cdnsideration.
These are the dutic imposed by the law o Kentucky on
the assignees of promissory notes, before they can commence
a suit against the assignor on his promise. These rules are
the law of this case; and although in our opinion they carry
•the doctrine .of diligence to an extent unknown to the principles of the common law, or the law of other states, where
bonds, notes, and bills are assignable, we must adopt them as
the guide to. our judgment. They must be considered with

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Bank of the United States vs. Tyler.]

a reference to the laws of Kentucky respecting judgments
and'executions, in order to form a correct opinion of their
true character. A judgment does not bind land in that state;
the lien attaches only from the delivery of an execution to
the slieriff; it then binds real and personal property, held by
a legal title. An execution returned, is no lien on any property not levied on; and no new one can be acquired-until a
new execution is pit into the hands of the sheriff; and none
can issue while a former levy is in force. 6 Kentucky Digest,
485, sec. 8. Any delay then by the assignee enables the
debtor to acquire, hold or alienate his property in the interval between judgment and theexecution reaching the sheriff;
as well as between the return of one and the lien acquired
by a new execution. There is therefore more-reason in exacting strict diligence on the part of the assignee, than in
those states where real estate is bound by a judgment without an execution. On general principles, it is certainJy a
rule of very great rigour to require a capias ad satisfaciendum
to be issued an,- served after a return of nulla bona. Bit as,
by the law of Kentucky, no equitable interest in real or personal property, except where it is held or covered by mortgage, deed of trust or other incumbrance, can be taken in
execution; a capias ad saticfaciendum is'the only mode by
which the equitable estat,; of 'the debtor or his choses in
action can be in any way reached by any legal process.
1 Kent. Dig. 504, see. 5, 505, sec. 6. It may be the means
of coercing the payment of the debt, a"nd it must therefore
be used. The return -of nulla bona t o an execution, is,
in that state, evidence only of there being no property of
the debtor on which a levy can be made. It is not evidence of tiere being no equitable interests, which are beyond the reach of legal process; or of his not having that
kind of property on which no levy can be made: A debtor,
confined by afi execution from tbe federal courts, can only
be discharged under the insolvent act of congress passed
January 1800; the provisions of which are effectual to com.pel a disclosure of all, his property. In the langtiag e of this
court, "the coercive means of this law are to be found in
the searching oath to be administerdd, and in the fear of a

SUPREME COURT.
[Bank of the Inited States vs. Tyler.]

prosectition for perjury, and recommitment; in the .same
action. Bank of the United States vs. Weisiger, 2 Peters,
352.
The'creditor has a right to use these coercive means;
and where he intends to make the insolvency of the debtor
the ground of a res6rt to the assignor of the note on which
the judgment was obtained, he is by -the principles of the
Kentucky decisions botind to use them to the full extent
authorised by the laws of that state, as expounded by its
highest judicial tribunals.
rn discarding from our minds all considerations unconnected with the peculiar local law which governs this case,'
aud considering it in all its bearings on both parties; we are
not prepared to say that either has-any right to complain of
,the severity of the rules which impose on them their respective obligations. If the law merchant were to govern, the
plaintiff would be without remedy.
Suing as the indorser of a negotiable note, he must fail, for
want of a protest or demand of payment -ofthe drawer, and
notice to -the indorser. The diligence exacted of him is quite
as extreme, if not more so, as when he sues ag assignee. He
must not give the drawer time for one day beyond the days
of grace, or what local usage permits. His notorious insolvency; his being discharged as an insolvent debtor or a car.tified bankrupt; will not excuse the holder. This court have
decided at this term, in the case of The Bank of the United
States v . Magrrider, that where a-drawer of a note dies before
it becomes due, and the indorser administers on his estate, demand of payment and notice to the indorser are indispensable.
No dedisions in Kentucky on assigned notes establish a more
rigid doctrine than is applicable to indorsers by the law
merchant. In such cases demand and notice are required to
fix the indorser, because the debtor may pay by the interference of ffiends; not because he is supposed to have the
means of doing it otherwise. It is too late to inquire into the
reason of these rules; which have become*settled and established as the general law of negotiable notes in the commercial world, and of assignable notes in Kentucky. They.
must be submitted to as the law of the eontract into which

JANUARY TERM 1880.
[Bank of the United States vs. Tyler.]

the parties respectively enter, on becoming indorsers in the
one case, and assignees in the other. If it is not, going beyond the principles of the common law of England and this
country, it is at least extending them to their utmost limits,
to say that -the assignor of a note, without fraud, or a promise
to pay in the event'of the insolvency of the drawer, should
be liable by the mere effect of the assignment; and that there
is no difference between his assigning with or without an express promise. It is at least testing the contract of assignment by the rules of the summum jus. Neither the statute of
Anne or of anyof the states of this union,making notes'assignable (so far as is known), expressly impose on the assignor
any obligation' which did not .attach to the assignment-of a
chose in action at common law. Such assignments are recognized; and though the assignee cannot sue in his own name,
his rights are as much protected in courts of law as those bf
assigiees, byvirtue of the statute. 3 Bibb, 293. 4 Bibb,
557. It is not easy to. assign any sound reasons for construing
the assignment as, per se, importing a higher obligation in
the one case than the other. But the law of Kentucky has
giveii this effect to assignments of notes under the, statute of
that state ; and as the plaintiffs cannot sustain this action in
their own name without the aid of the law, they must submit td
the conditions which the settled judgments on the action have
imposed on them. If, in availing themselves of this strict obligation imposed on the assignor, they find themselves compelled to use a corresponding degree' of vigilance on their
part, exreedihg -that which is rdquired in other states under
similar statutes'- this court cannot afford them an exemption
from its exercise. The local law is clearly settled, .and we
must submit to.it; however we might be inclined to constrtue
the law, if it were now open to a construction more-consistent with that which has been uniformly given to statutes
authorising the assignment of bonds, bills and notes.
In the.application of these rules to the first note which is
the subject of this action, the defendant admits, that up to
the time of issuing the first execution, there has been no want
of due diligence on the part of the plaintiff; but h alleges,
that from that time, there was unnecessary delay in various
VOL. IV.-2 Y

SUPREME COURT.
[Ejank of the United States vs. TylerJ]

particulars, which nave been pointed out and dwelt upon
with much earnestness. .As the statement of the case
contains the teste, the return day, the day of the return of
each execution, and the time of their coming to the hands of
the marshal; it is unnecessary to examine in detail the alleged
instances of negligence by the lapse of time : but there is
one rule for which the defendant contends, which deserves
some more particularnotice.
:By the fifth section of a law of Kentucky, passed in 1811,
it is made the duty of the courts of that state, to appointby
rule of court, some day in each month as a general return day
of execution. 'The provisions of this law having been carried
into effect ithe defendant insists, that in the exercise of the
legal diligence incumbent on the plaintiff, he was bound to
take out his execution returnable on some rule day, and attend at the office to watch its progress and effect. We think
this would be applying the doctrine of diligence with .unreasonable strictness. We find no decision which warrants the
extension of it to so extreme a point; and we are not disposed
to go one step in advance of the principles heretofore adopted. The case of the Bank vs. Weisiger is conclusive on this
part of the'defendant's case; it was there settled, that a lapse
of thirty-six days between the judgment and the delivery of
the execution to the marshal, did not amount to that want
of diligence which exonerated the assignor" of the note on
which the judgment was obtained.
.We have been furnished with no adjudged case's in Kentucky, which fix any defihite time within which an execution
must be made returnable. On examining the executions
which have issued on the judgment on the first note, they are
a'll returnable within three months from their teste; and no
period of three months has been suffered to elapse, within
which an execution has not been in the hands of 'the marshal, unless when writs of venditioni exponas were out: and
they appear.to have issued in all instances within that period.
The greatest time which. has intervened between the issuing
of an execution and placing it in the hands of the marshal,
appears to be. thirty-one days; and from the return of one
execution or venditioni, until the issuing of'another, thirty

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Bank of the.United States vs. Tyler.]

days: and we are not aware that in any of these cases there
is any decision that this would be a wan.t of di ligence in the
assignor. In the absence of any such decisi,)n, and feeling.
at liberty.to decide upon them as open ques; )ns, we are of
opinion, that the plaintiff, in the proceedings subsequent to
the judgment, has at no time omitted to pursue the maker
of this note with all the diligence which the law required of
him. On this part of the case, we think the decision of this
-court in the case of the Bank of the United States vs. Weisiger is strongly applicable. That was a case of the assignee
against the assignor of a promissory note. Judgment was
entered November term 1821. Execution issued on the 29th
of December; was placed in marshal's hands on the 19th of
January, thirty-six days from the entry of judgment; returned nulla bona, at Mqrmh term 1822, the 3d day of the month;
and a capias ad satisfaciendum issued on the 11th of April
1822, thirty-eightvdays from the return day of the fieri farias.
This was held not to be such a want of diligence a exonerated the assignor. This decision seems to us to cover all
the 'ground assumed by the plaintiff, up to the time of the
discharge of MiIler from his imprisonment on the capias ad
satisfaciendum; and thus f&r we think he has done or omitted
no act whiich has impaired his right of action.
It remains now to consider the last allegation of the want
of diligence imputed to the plaintiff, and its effect on the
suit. Miller was arrested and imprisoned on the 27th of
March 1824; and on the same day was discharged by thejailor, on the order of, two justices of the peace, acting or
pretending to act under a law of Kentucky, passed in 1820,
(I Kent. Dig. 503, see.. I and 3), abolishing imprisonment
for debt, and authorising a justice of the peace, on" application of any person in jail or in prison bounds, on reasonable
notice to the party at whose suit he has been committed, to
issue an order for his discharge.
It. is not necessary to inquire whether this law would apply.to process from the federal dourts; so as to legalize the
discharge of a prisoner from the execution issued in this
case, And protect the jailor and his sureties from an action
'by the plaintiffs for an escape. The laws of"Kentucky on

SUPREME COURT.
[Bank of the Ynited States vs.,Tyler.]

this subject are tob clear to admit of a doubt: they authorise
the discharge of a debtnr from, imprisonment, on making a
schedule of his property, surrendering it to the use of his
creditors, and taking the oath prescribed. I Kent. Dig.
49.0, 491;'4.92,.act of T819; 564, act of 1821.
It was undeihis law that the justices acted in issuing the
order of discharge.- But it could not apply to a commitment
by the marshal, under an executinn from the federal courts;
because an express provision was made by prior laws, which
made it the dut of the jailor to safely keep such prisoners,
until they shall be discharged according to the laws of the
United States. 2 Itentucky Digest, 676. The act of 1798
provides; that jailors shalf receive into-their custody all persong-committed under the authoity of the United States,
and keep them safely, until discharged by the due course of
the laws of the United States; and the jailor is subject to
the same pains and penalties for neglect of duty, as if the
commitment had been by state authority. By the act of
1800, the marshal.of the United States has a right to use
any prison for the imprisonmen? of any.one.by legal process,
in the same 'manner as the *sheriff of a. county may, if the
prisoner was delivered by hini;and this law was unrepealed,
and in force, adt the time of Miller's discharge. To entitle
a debtor to a discharge under the insqlvent law of January
1800, he niust give the.cred'tor thirty days' notice of his application, and take an oath that he is not worth thirty dollars, &c.
The jailor was bound totake notice of this law, and of t!e
laws of Kentucky, vhich requi red him.to detaih the prisoner.
until he complied with these provisions:, he knew the conditions of his bond, and acted at. his peril in releasing him;
without one day's confinement, without notice, oath, or the
order of the district judge. The discharge was wholly unauthorised and illegal ; the order of the justices did not
protect the jailor; and he was liable to the plaintiff in an,
action for the escape, to the full amount of the ex-cution.
The act of 1812, 2 Kent. Dig. 679, requires. all jailors to
execute,,in their county court, a bond, with one or more approved sureties, in at least the sum of one thousand dollars,

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Bank of the United States vs. Tyler.]

and as much more as the court ni~y deem proper; payable to
the commonwealth, and conditioned for the faithful .discharge
.ofthe duties of the office.of jailor; which may be put-in suit
by any person injured by his acts. And the act of' 1811
enacts, that'where a bond is given by any public officer to
the commonwealth, the recovery against the principal and
his sureties shall nbt" be limited to the penalty; but they
shall be liable according to law, and to the full extent of the
official;obligations of such officer, as the same are enumerated in the'condition of such bond. 2 Kent. Dig, 978.
The remedy thus afforded to the plaintiff was a substantial one; extending to his whole claim, if the jailor or his
securities were solvent. It was not indirect, remote, or doubtful. He had acquired a-new security, of which the assignor
had a right to.claim the benefit; but which he could not use
for his protection: the- plaintiff could alone sue for the escape, or bring an action on the jailor's official bond, which
enured to his use,"but not to the u e of the defendant. If
this new security had been a bond for the prison bounds,
there would be no doubt that it would be his duty to pursue
the parties to it before resorting to the defendant; and it
was equally his duty to pursue the jailor, and his securities,
on his.bond of office.
-The jailor had violated his duty; his bond became forfeited ; he and his securities had put themselves in the place
of the debtor, who was permitted to escape; and they thus assumed all his responsibilify to the plaintiff. No event could
arise by which they could be discharged. A voluntary return, or a recaption of the prisoner; would not avail them;
they were under a stronger and more direct obligation to
pay the money than special bail; againsi whom, it is admitted, that legal proceedipgs must be used with due diligence,
before resorting to the assignor.
Although we find no express decision by the courts of
Kentucky, enjoining on a plaintiff thie necessity of suing a
jailor and his .securities for the escape of a prisoner; yet
it seems to us, that, in the spirit of them all, he is bound to
do so The general principle of all the cases is, that a
plaintiff must pursue, with legal "diligence,all his means and

SUPREME COURT.
[Bank of the United States vs. Tyler.]

remedies, direct, incidental or collateral, to recover the
amount of his debt from the defendant, or any one who has
put himself, or has by operation of law been put in his
place. This the plaintiffs in this case have wholly omitted ;
with a plain, undoubted cause of action against the jailor
and his sureties; with legal means of compelling them to pay
to the whole extent of their estates; and, for ought which appears, to the full amount of his claim against Miller, the
maker of the note in question. They have made no attempt
to assert their rights against either. According to the spirit
and prihciple of the Kentucky decisions, we are constrained
to say this is not due diligence; but that kind of legal negligence, which entitled the defendant to a judgment in his
favour in the circuit court.
This view of the case renders it unnecessary to consider
thi effect of the proceedings on the sepond note; which were
conducted with less diligence than those on the first.
*Having thus disposed of the first error assigned .bythe
plaintiff, it remains to consider the second; which is, that
the circuit'court erred in rejecting the evidence offered of
Miller's notorious insolvency'at the time -the note became
due.
If the -court are correct in overruling the exception taken
to the charge of the circuit court, we cannot reverse theiz
judgment for overruling this evidence. It did not conduce
to prove any fact material to the issue between the parties;
which was, not whether Miller was in fact insolvent; but
whether the plaintiff had by due diligence ascertained his
insolvency, by legal process. commenced in time, diligently
conducted till its, final consummation,.and by the exhaustion
of all incidental and collateral reiedies afforded by the law,
without obtaining the debt. The proof, or the admission of
actual insolvency, would in no wise relieve the plaintiffs
from the duty imposed on them ; it would not accelerate their
right to. sue the defendant, or enlarge his obligation to pay,
which did not arise by the mere insolvency of the maker of
the note, but by its legal ascertainment in the manner prescribed by the judicial law of Kentucky. That law has been
recognized by this court in the case of Weisiger, as appli-

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Bank of the United States vs. Tyler.]

cable to cases of this description. To decide now, that the
plaintiffs could avail themselves of the insolvency of the
maker, unaccompanied with the diligent use of all legal remedies; and in a case where we are of opinion that the
plaintiffs have not made use of the diligence which under
the circumstances of this case it was incumbent on them to
use, would be to disregard all the principles of Kentucky
jurispyudence, as -evidenced by the received opinion, general practice, and judicial decisions of that state
We think it is not an open question, whether these principles shall be respected by this court; and-cannot feel authorised to depart from them in a case to which their application
cannot be questioned.
The judgment of the circuit court is. therefore affirmed
with costs.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript ef the
record from the circuit court of the United States, for the
seventh circuit and district of Kentucky, and was argued by
counsel; on consideration whereof, it is ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of the said circuit
court in this cause be, and the same is hereby affirmed with
costs.

