JANUARY TERM 1830.

SA =EL

D.

HAtRis, MARSIHA

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

DISTRCnT OF MASSACHUSETTSi- PLAINTIFF IN

D'WOLF,

JuN.

ERRORM8.

JAIMES

DEFENDANT IN ERoR.

The plaintiff in replevin,'James D'Wolf, claimed the merchandize under an assignment executed by George D'Wolf and John Smith to him, in consideration of
a large sum of money due by them to James D'Wolf, and in consideration of
advances to be made th them by him. The assignment transferred four vessels and their cargoes, three of which vessels were then at sea, and one in New
York ready to sail, the property of the assignors. The assignment was to be
void on the payment to James D'Wolf of the money due to him; and if it
should not be paid, the assignee to enforce the pledge by process and arrest in
all countries or places whatsoever, and to sell the same for the payment of the
amount dUe by them, the assignors, to George D'Wolf. The merchandize for
which this action of replevin was instituted, was part of the return cargo of
one of the vessels. The defendant, Harris, pleaded that the merchandize was
not the property of the plaintiff, but of George D'Wolf and John Smith; and
justified the taking of the goods of the plaintiff, as marshal of the district of
Massachusetts, by virtue of a writ of attachment sued out in the district court
of the United States for the district of Massachusetts, in which suit judgment
was obtained against George D'Wolf. On the trial, the plaintiff in the replevin proved the assignment, that large sums of money were due to him-by
George D'Wolf and-John Smith, that the goods were part of the property
assigned, that he had used ill proper means to take possession of the goods,
but was prevented by the attachment issued by the United States. The defendant proved that the goods were imported into the United States by D'Wolf
and Smith, and that at the time of the importation, they were indebted to the
United States for duties which were due and unpaid, to an amount 'exceeding
the value of the merchandize attached, and that the Octavia, one of the vessels assigned, with a cargo on board ready for sea, was at New York at the
time of the assignment; which ship was iot delivered to James D'Wolf, the
assignee, nor were the bills of lading assigned, the cargoes on board the
vessels being consigned to the masters for sales and returns.
By the Court: In the case of Conard vs. The Atlantic Insurance Company, I
Peters, 306, it was decided tha the non delivery of a vessel assigned to secure
or pay a bona fide debt, did not make the assignment absolutely void. This
court is well satisfied with that opinion.
The deed of assignment conveyed to the assignee a right to the proceeds of the
outward bound cargoes on board the vessels assigned to James D'Wolf.
The failure of George b'Wolf to deliver to the assignee the copies of the bills
of lading which were in his possession, did not leave the property subject to
the attachment of creditors, who had no notice of the deed. It was held in
the case of Conard vs. The Atlantic Insurance Company, that such a transfer
gives the assignee a right to take and hold those proceeds against any person
but the consignee of the cargo, or purchaser from the consignee without
notice.

148

SUPREME COURT.

[Hardls vs. D'Wolf.]
That the consignees of the merchandize were indebted to the United States on
duty bonds remaining due and unpaid at the time of the importation, did not,
under the sixty-second section of the act of March 2, 1799, make thi merchandize, as to the United States, the property of the consignees, notwithstanding
the assignment; and make the attachment of the United'States for the debt
due to them sufficient to bar the action of replevin brought by the assignee.

THIS case came before the court by writ of erroir to the
circuit court of Massachusetts.
In the circuit court, the defendant in error instituted an
action of replevin to recover a quantity ofmerchandize claimed by him under a special assignment executed to him by
George D. Wolf and John Smith, to secure debts bone fide
due to him, and 'vhich merchandize had been seized by
Samuel D. Harris, the defendant in the suit, as marshal of the
United States, under executions issued at the suit of the
United States against George D.'Wolf and John Smith, on
judgments obtained against them for duties. The marshaf
claimed to hold the merchandizo as subject to the executions; and the cause was tried in the circuit court in December 1827, and a verdict under the charge of the cofirt was
given for the plaintifl At the trial, the defendant prayed
the court -tgive cet,rin instructions to the jury, which the
court refused to give ; to which refusal the defendant excepted, and prosecuted this writ of error. These instructions
appear in thc _pinion of the court.
The case was submitted to the court without argument,
by the counsel.
Mr Cfiief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a writ of error to a judgment of the court of the
'United States, for the first circuit and district of Massachusetts, in an action of replevin claiming the restitution of
twenty-three cases of silks which had been attached at the
suit of the United States, against George D'Wolf. The
property was claimed by the plaintiff in replevin, under a
deed datec on the 19th of November 1822, executed by
George D'Wolf and John Smith, in which they acknowledged themselves to be severally indebted to the said James

JANUARY TERM 1830.
'[iarris tvs. D'Wolf.J

D'Wolf, in large sums orf money, and agreed, in consideration thereof, and in consideration of other advances to be
made by the said James D'Wolf, to convey, and did convey,
to the said James D'Wolf the ship Octavia, then lying in the
port of New York nearly ready for sea, and the three brigs
Quill, Arab, had'Friendship, then-actually at sea, their tackle,
&c. and the proceeds and investments of their cargoes, &c.
which said vessels and cargoes were the property of'the
said George D'Wolf and John Smith. To this conveyance
a cdndition was annexed, that it should be void on the payment to James D'Wolf of the money which should be due
to him; on the failure to pay which it should be lawful for
Vhe said James D'Wolf, at any time or times, to enforce the
pledge by process, and arrest of the premises or any part
thereof in all courts or places whatsoever, and cause the
same to be sold, and the proceeds to be applied in sdtisfaction of the moneys whihh may then be due from them, or
either ot them. The silks were part of.the return cargo of
one of these vessels.
The defendant pleaded that the said silks were not the property of the'plaintiff, but of George D'Wolf and Smith; and
justified the taking thereof, as marshal of the district, by virtue of a writ of attachment sued out of the court of the
United States for the said district, in which suit the United
States obtained judgment against the said George D'Wolf.
At the trial, the plaintiff proved his deed of assignment,
that the silks were part of the proceeds of tile cargoes of
the ship Octaviaand brig Arab, that he had used all propermeans to take possession of them, and that they .were attached by the defendant, as marshal, by virtue of process
sued out by the United States. He also proved debts against
George D'Wolf and John. Smith, severally, on account of
his advances for them, which were intended to be secured
by the deed of assignment, to a very large amount.
The defendant proved that the said silks were imported
into the United States, consigned to George D'Wolf and
John Smith, and that at the time of the importation of said
silks, said George D'Wolf and John Smith were indebted to
the United States in bonds given by them respectively for

SUPREME COURT
[Harris vs. D'Wolf.]

duties which were then due and unpaid, to an amount much
exceeding the value of the silks replevied. The defendant
also proved, that at the time the deed of assignmerit was
executed, the ship Octavia lay at NevW York, with her cargo
on board, nearly ready for sea; but that possession was not
delivered, nor were the bills of lading indorsed or delivered
to the plaintiff. The cargoes were consigned to the several
masters for sales and returns.
Many other circumstances were given by the plaintiff in
evidence, to showi the fairness of the deed of assignment;
which were met on the part of the defendant by other circumstances, on which he relied to show that in point of law
it was fraudulent. These do not affect the opinions given
by the circuit court, to which exceptions were taken; and
therefore are not recited.
After the testimony was closed, the defendant's counsel
moved the court to instruct the jury that the deed of assign-.
ment was fraudulent as to creditors, and void. This instruction the court refused 'to give; but left it to the jury to
determine upon: all the evidence of the case, whether the
said deed was executed with an intent to defraud or delay
the creditors of the'said George D'Wo*f and John Smith,
and if so executed, then the same was fraudulent, and void
as to such creditors.
As the whole question of fraud was submitted to the jury,
it is incumbent on the plaintiff in error, if he would support
this exception, to show some de:ect in the deed itself, which
makes it absolutely void as to creditors, whatever may be
the fairness of intent with which it was executed. He relies on the fact, that possession of the Octavia was not deli'red as making the deed of assignment absoldtely void.
This question was decided upon -full consideration in the
case of Conard vs. The Atlantic Insurance Company, 1 Peters, 386, and this court is well satisfed with that opinion.
The counsel for the defendant also prayed the court to
instruct the jury, that although the deed of assignment might
be valid, it could not transfer a right to the proceeds of the
outward bound cargoes; which instruction the court refused
to give.

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Harris vs. D'Wolf.]

This question also is decided in the case of Conard vs.
The Atlantic Insurance Company.
The counsel for the plaintiff also moved the court to instruct the jury, that the failure of George D'Wolf and John
Smith to deliver to James D'Wolf the copies of the bills of
lading which we're in their possession, severally, when the
bills of lading were executed, leaves the property subject to
the attachment of creditors who- had no notice of the deed.
This instruction the court refused to give.
In the case of Conard vs. The Atlantic Insurance Company, the court determined that a deed of assignment, such
as was executed in this case, was capable of transferring the
right to the proceeds of the outward cargo as between the
parties; of consequence such transfer gives the assignee a
right to take those proceeds and hold them against any person but the consignee of the cargo, or person who is a purchaser from the consignee, without notice. These principles
were settled in the case which has been already cited.
The counsel also moved the court to instruct the jury,
that if the consignees of the said silks wdre at the time indebted to the United States, on duty bonds remaining due
and unpaid, then, that by virtue of the sixty-second section
of the act for the collection of duties, passed th6 2d of
March 1799, the said goods were, as to the United States,
the goods of the said consignees, .notwithstanding the said
deed, and in the legal custody of the said collector; and that
the attachment in favour of the United States was good and
sufficient to bar the action.
This instruction was refused.
This question was considered and determined in the case
of Harris vs. Dennie, decided at this term:
The questions raised in this cause have all been decided
in- this court as they were decided by the circuit court.
There is no error in the opinions to which exceptions have
been taken; and the judgment of the circuit court is affirmed
with costs.

