SUPRUME COURT,

HEnrz HOLmLIGSWORTH, HEIR -oF LEvI H6LLMGSwoRTH, APzE,LA.T'V;. P1HIP 'B.RBOuT AND OTHERs, APPELLES.
H.. entered, with the proper surveyor for the, district of Kentucky, .forty-five
,'thousand acres of land, in the county of Washington in that state, by virtup
.of treasury warrants. A survey wasimade thereon in 1,786, and a patent for tho
land issued toH. in 1797. The warrants were purchased by 'the ancestor of
the coniplairanut, by'a parol agreement'with H. previous to their entry. Beforeithisagreement H., in connection with a person who owned other war,
rants, had 'iade an agreement with S. to locate their respective warrants, which
agreement was ratified by .the complainant, who paid a sum of money to S.
for fees of pateliting, and agreed to mafke S. a liberal compensation for his se vices; and S. located and- surveyed under the warrints, forty-fkve thbusand
acres. returned the surveys to the office, and paid the fees of office. The
locating and surveying of the w.arrants, and all the necessary steps for completing the tfitle, were done by S., who was employed first by H., and afterwards
by the complainant, who paid in money for the same. H. being deceased, and
having maqe no coveyance of the legal title to the lands, the complainant
filed a bill in the cuunty of Washington, " against the unknown heir of U."
aid in 1815 a decree was mad6 by that court; for a conveyance of the land, .,
the unknown heirs, or in their default by a commissioner, appointed iu he;e.de
ree fo make the-same. Held, that the conveyance was not authorised by the
laws of Kentucky, in force at-the time of the decree.
By the general law of the land, no court is authorised to render a judgment or
decree against any one, or his.estate; until after due notice by service of pro,cebs to appear and defend. ,[472]
The acts ofth6 assembly ofKentucky authorising proceedings against absent de'feiidants referred to aid examined. [472]
The statute under which the proceddings-of the complainants in this- case were
instituted, authorised the court to make a decree for a conveyance in a suit
for such a conveyance, only in the case in which the complainant claims the'
land as locator, or by bou2 or other instrutment inwriting. [473]
The claim of " a locator" is peculiar to Kentucky, and has been universally
tnderstood by the people of the-country to signify that compensation of a porlion 6f the lansd 16cated, agreed to be given by the owner.of the warrant, to the
locator of it for his services. [473]
The record of proceedings against "unknown heirs," is'no evidence that any such
heirs existed; and the decree and deed made in pursuance of it, cannot avail to pass any title without some evidence that there were some heirs. (4771

APPEAL from the circuit court of the district of Kentucky.
The case is fully stated in- the opiniori of the court.
The cause was argued by Mr'Sheffey for the appellants,
and by' Mr Wickliffe for the appellees.

JANUARY TERM 18"0.
[Hollingsyrorth vs.'Barbour'and others.]

Mr Justide IALxwIN delivered the- opinion of the Court.
This wds a-bill, filed on the equity-side of the court, by the
appellants, setting forth,,that on the.21st'of February 1784, a
certain Joln Abel Hamlin entered, with the proper'surveyor
for the district of Kentucky,. forty-five thousand acres of
land, lying in the county of Washington; by' virtue of sundry treasury Nvarrants; issued 'by the state of Virginia. That
a survey was made tnereon,- on the 13th of 4pril 1786 ; aid
a patent isStded the 8th of June 1.798, to the said John Abel
Hamlin. That previous to the date of such entry, the comphlinant had purchased from the said Hamlin the warrants
on which the entry and surveys had been made, for the:
sum of three thousand seven hundred dollars; which he
paid. That although the entries, survey and patent were
in the 'name of said Hamlin, they were for the benefit of,
'the complainant; who alleged the equitable title thereto ag
belonging to him. ThatHamlin being dead; withotithaving.
made a conveyance, the complainant, in 1814, exhibited
.his bill in chancery, in the circuit court' for the county
of Washington, against the unknown lieirs of said Hamlin ;
and obtained a decree of said court, ordbring them to qonvey to him the legal title of, said lands, by a day named in
said decree; 'in 'default whereof the court appointed a commissioner for that purpose, who, by deed approved by the
court, conveyed the same to the complainant on the 15th of
August 1815: by virtue of which decree, and conveyance,
he became vested with the right, title and interest of said
Hamlin o all the lands embraced in the patent of the commonwealth-to.him.
.The bill then sets forth, that the. defendants, sixty-six in
number, had obtained grants of various portions of the land
patented to Hamlin, and were in possession of the same, by
virttie of warrants, entries and surveys adverse to his: and
concludes with a prayer against the appellees, the respondents below, that 'they may be compelled to convey to the
complainant the land claimed by them respectively under
their patents, which were elder than the one to Hamlin.
In support of the allegations of his bill, tile complainant
produced', the entries, survey and patent before menticied,
but offered no evidence of any contract, written or parol

468

.SUPREME COURT.
[Hollingswovth bs. Birbour-and oth;rs.]

betweenhim and'Hamlin f'or the sale of. these lands; and
did not attempt to rest his claiai to hold the title of Hamlin
on any other authority than the decree of the circuit court
of Washington county, and the'deed of the commissioner appointed tb execute the convqyance to him of the lands included-in the patent. In the court below, the defendants, in
their answers, made.various objections to the entries on Hamlin's warrants : set up title in themselves, by the patents, under whidh they claimed; and their long possession of the lands
within .their-respective surveys, for a period in many of the
cases -exceeding, and in few falling.short of the period prescribed by the act of limitation.
If this court entertained a doubt of the validity of the decree rendered by the circuit court of the county of Washington, ordering a conveyance of the title of Hamlin in the
lands in question to Hollingsworth, we should feel it our
duty to enter into the consideration of all the questions arising on the bill, answer, and exhibits in this case.
When the case was first reached ob the calendar, no
counsel appeared on -the part of the appellants. The
counse'l of the appellees. brought the case before the court,
and presented the various points which arose at the hearing in the circuit court; beginning with the first in order,
the right of Hollingsworth to put himself in place of Hamlin, as to a remedy against the appellants. He was informed by the-court, that, as then advised, they did not wish.
to hear him on the other points. Counsel afterwards appearing for the appellants, and requesting to be heard, the court
directed an argument on what then appeared to them the
turning question on the whole case. We have, carefully
weighed the reasons urged for a reversal of the decree of
the court below on that ground, and still retain the opinion
formed on the ex parte argument ; that the decree in the
case of Hollingsworth against the unknown heirs of Hamlin, and the deed executed by the commissioners pursuant thereto, was void, and wholly inoperative to transfer
any title; and that Hollingsworth, or his heir, had no right to
call on the appellees to transfer their prior legal title to him,
as representing Hamlin or his heirs. That be the title of the

JANUARY -TERM 1830.

469

[H6llingsworth vs. Batbour and others.]

appelleesf good or bad, the complainant 'had .no -equity"
against them. Being a stranger to Hamlin'stitle,'he had no
right to any conveyance to himself, or any relief Sought for
by tbe.bill now under the~codsideration of ihe 6ourt.
The .original -bill against the unknown heirs of Hamlin,
thus dedtices the complainant's right to a decree for the conveyance of the legal title vested. in Hamlin of, hig heirs
by the entries, -survey, and patent before referred to :-That
Hamlin was indebted to -the domplainant in the' sum of
about four thousand dollars by.bo k account; -that he, had
absconded, and cortplainhnt took a writ of attachmdnt
against his effects, out Qf the court of common pleas of'the
county of Philadelphia, of September term. 1784; that in
execution of that writ-the sheriff broke open the counting
house of Hamlin, but found no property therein except thirty-:
nine Virginia warrants for ninety thousand acres of land, of
which he took possession, but made no return of them on the.
writ: that Hamlin some time afterwards returned' to Philadelphia, being wholly insolvent, and'proposed to com'.plainant that he should take the-'warrants for the sum of
three thousand seven hundred dollars, to which he assented,
and gave Hamlin a credit to that. amount on the account;
that the warrants were accordingly'deliveed to the complainant, but without any transfer or assignment in writing.
That before the circumstances of Hamlin became desperate, he had, in co-operation with a person who owned
some Virginia warrants, made an agreement with Benjamin
Stevens of New Jersey, to locate'their respectivc warrants;
which agreement was ratified by the complainant, who paid
to Stevens one hundred and twenty-three pounds eight
shillings and nine pence, Pennsylvania currency, for fees of
patenting, &c. and-further agreed to make Stevens a liberal
compensation for his personal. labour; and he then commtenced the business of locating, surveying, &c. : that Stevens made entries and executed surveys of forty-five thousand
acres (the lands in controversy); returned the plats and certificates of survey to the register's office, and paid the fees
of office.
It thus appearing from the complainant's allegations in

"SUPREME COURT.
[Hollingsworth vs. Bdrbour and others.]

his bill', that. the locating and surveying of the warrants, and
all the steps necessary to the completion of the title were
done by Stevens, who was employed for that purpose, first
by Hamlin, and afterwards by himself; and th'at his services'
were ,compensated. by'omoney; it becomes unnecessary to
'consider the other matters set forth. by the, complainant. Not
'being a "locator"-of these lands, and .showing the location to
have been made byanoth6r; he 6xcluded himself from all
pretence of claiming a right to.proceed as such against the
unknown heirs of-lamlin.
The circuit court of Washington county could take cognizance of the case presented to them by the complainant,
by no principle of the comhon law, or -rule of a Court of
equity'.. Theii powers to do so must be- conferred by some law
of Kentucky,. within which the complainant must have.
brought himself, or the proceedings would be "void-for want
of jurisdiction in the court. As this court fully concurs
with the views taken'of this course by'the late learned
and lamented .Mr- Justice Trimble, who p'ronounced the
decree of the circuit court in a very lucid and elaborate
opinion-, returned with the recor.d, we deem it wholly unnecessary to do more than to refer.to it as containing ihe reasons of the decree, which we unanimously approve.
"This'is a-contr6versy for land under conflicting adverse
titles. The complainant claims ,he land by virtue of two entries, made with the surveyor of Washington county on the
23d of February 1784, in the name of John Abel Iamlin i an
inclusive survey of these entries made on the 12th day of
April 1786" a grant issued thereon to John Abel Hamlin -on the 8th day of June 1797; and a deed of conveyance
nmade by a commissioner on'behalf of the unknown heirs of
John Abel Hamlin to the.complainant, in obedience to and
in pursuance of a decree of the circuit court for the county
of Washington. The defendants claimed the land under and
• by'virtue of sundry entries, surveys and grants, elder than
the grant to John Abel. Hamlin. The- defendants, in their
answers, controvert the validity of John Abel Hamlin's
entries; insist that John- Abel Hamlin -and his heirs, if he left
any, were aliens, incapable of t-aking, holding, or conveying

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Hollingsworth vs. Barbour and others.]

real estate; deny that John Abel Hamlin left any heirs to
inherit his title : and deny that the complainant has any interest in or iitle to the estate of John Abel Hamlin in the
preifises. They further rely on their elder legal titles; in'sist
upon the validity and supeiority of the 'several entries under
which they hold; anain bar of the relief sought'by thebill,
allege they have had upwards of twenty years-adver.se.possessio'n of the land in controversy, prior to the institution of
this suit.
"It is argued for the defendants, mat the decree of the
Washingtoii circuit court is void ;and that no title, passed by
it, and the commissioner's deed made in pursuance of it, to
the complainant.
"It must be conceded, that if the decree is void, the corn-.
missioner's deed, made by its authority, can pass nothing to
the complainant.
"This court disclaims all authority to revise. or correct.
the decree, on the ground'of supposed error inthe court "who
pronounced the decree. The principle is too well settled,
and too plain- to be controverted, that a judgment or decree
pronounced by a competent tribunal against a party having
actual or constructive notice of the pe'ndency of the. suit, is
to be regarded by. eviery other co-ordinate-tribunal ; and that
if the judgment or decree be. errone6us, the error c n be
.corrected only'by a superior appel*late tribunal. The-leading distinction is between judgments and decrees merely
void,'and such as.are voidable only: the former are binding no where,;.the latter every where, until reversed by:
a iuperior authority. Upon general principles, the decree of the- Washington -circuit courit must have-the same
-force and effect, and none, other in this court, than it would
or ought to have in any circuit court of the state. Al.thofigh these' principles are unquestionable, the correct
application of them to this case is attended with no little
difficulty.
The suit and decree is against the Unknown heirs of
I'
John Abel Hamlin. Instead.6f personal service of process
upon the defendants in the sutt, an order of publication was
made against them iand upon a certificate of the publication

.472

SUPREME COURT.
EffoIingsworth ms. Barbour and others.]

of this qrder for.eight weeks successively in an authorised
newspaper being produced and filed inthe cause, the bill
was-taken pro confeso i -and at the next succeeding-term the

final decree was. entered,-directing the. conveyAne of'the
land to the complainant.
. " The equnsgel for -the.defendaits- in this cause have suggested several., irregularities in .the proceedings in that
cause; and.insist, the court had ho legal iiuthority to pr6.
nounce any decree therein,.'The complainant's counsel
contend,' that tne proceedings were had in pursuarice o'f the,
several acts of-assembly concerning absent defendants: and
that.if any irregularities have intervened in the progress of
the suit, the.proceedings and decree are at most .only,erioneous : but that.the c6r having jurisdiction and authority,
by the laws of !he state; to pronpunce .a decree 'for'a conyeyance of )and lyingwithin the county; .the decree, how.ever irregular it may be$-is not void.
"This argument renders -it necessary to" examine the several acts of assemb,!yauthorising proceedings..against absent defendants : for, by the general law~of the land, no(court
isauthbrised to render a judgment ordecree against any one
or his estate, until after due notice by service of process to
appear and defend. This principle is dictated by natural
justice ;, and is only to -be departed, from incases expressly
warranted'by law, and excepted. out of the general rule. '
"The first act of assembly isthe act of the 19th of December 1726, copied from the, pre-existing laws of Virginia.
That act provides for the case where a suit in chancery -ii
.commenced ' against any defendant or--defendants, -who are
out of this commonwealth, and others witl*in -the.same'having in their hands effects of, or otherwise indebted to-the
absent defend ant &c. ; and.the second sectionl authorises the
court, in such cases, to have publication "niade two months
successivejy in an authorised - newspaper, and if the abgentee still fails to appear, to proceed to decree, &c. " This act
manifestly applies only. to cases of debt or duties personal ;
for the satisfaction of -which, the debts or effects of the absent debtor are attached, or enjoined in the hands of the resident party. -The next act of assembly, in order-of time, is

JANUARY TERM f83o.
[Hollingsworth vs. Barbour and othere.]

the act of the 16th of December 1802. The third section
of this act provides, that " where any person or persons,
their heirs or assigns, claim land as locator, or by bond or other
instrument in writing, they may institute a 'suit in equity,
having jurisdiction in such cases; and where the party having died, and the legal title descended to his heirs,.the complainant may proceed to obtain a decree for the land, though
the particular names of the heirs be unknown, and not particularly named in the suit; although they may be residents
of this commonwealth or not; but in such cases, it.shall be
advertised eight weeks in one of the gazettes of this state,
requiring such heirs or representatives to appear and make
defence.' This statute tuthorises the court to proeeed to
decree atter publication, only in the cases in which the
complainant claims the land sued for in his bill as locator
only, dr by bond or other instrument in writing.
" We must then look into the bill of Holflngsworth against.
the unknown heirs of John Abel Hamlin, to see if the complainant in that case claimed the land as locator, or by bond
or other instrument ir writing. Upon an inspection of the bill
it is manifest, that the complainant in that case did not claim
the land by bond or other instrument in writing. The bill
does not pretend that the complainant held, or ever did hold,
any instrument of writing ; on the contrary,'he shows, negatively, that he did not. He alleges that he made a parol agreement with Ha mlin for the warrants, after the return of his
attachment against Hamlin to the court in Philadelphia, in
1784; and that the warrants were afterwards delivered to him,
in pursuance of that agreement, by the sheriff, who had seized
them at the time he levied the attachmedt on some of Hamlin's effects; but that the warrants were not returned as
levied on. The bill shows he did not claim as locator, in
the sense of the term. Thie claim as locator, arid the terms
in which it is expressed, are peculiar terms in Kentucky.
In early times, many contracts were made between warrant
holders and others, by which those others agreed to locate,
the warrants for a portion of the land secured by location;
and in many other cases, one man located the- warrantg of
another without any special agreement as to compensation,
VoL. IV.-3 K

SUPREME COURT.
[Hollingsworth us. Barbou and others.]

but with an expectation -of receiving as compensation -the
portion of land usually- given for such seivices. The phrase,
'claim as locator,' grew out of this'state of things ; and has
been universally understood by tbe people of the country to
signify the compensation of 'a portion,of the land located
agreed to be given 'by the owrier of the warrant to the locator of it for his services. The term is believed never to have
been used in any other sense, or as signifying the acquisition of property by any other species of contract, than a
contract to locate for a portion of the land. -According to
well settled rules of construction, the language of.the statute
must be understood-in this its popular acceptation.
"The order of publication in the case of Levi Hollingsworth, against the unknown heirs of John Abel Hamlin, was
made at the Novenber term of the Washington circuit court,
in the year 1813; proof of the publication of the order, eight
*weeks successively in the Bardstown Repository, was made
on the 4th of April 1814;- and at the August term, in the
year 1814, the final de.cree was rendered in the cause.
These dates are important, because they show that the only
remaining act upon which reliance was placed, and which
passed on the 6th of February 1.815, is subsequent tothe decrqe, and cannot apply to the case. The acts of 1796, and
of 1802, already noticed, were the only statutes existing at
the time of the proceedings and decree, in the suit of Hollingsworth against -the unknown heirs of John Abel Hamlin;
which authorised the courts of the state to proceed upon orders of publidation to decree against absent defendants.
"It appears clear to my mind, that the case was not within the provisions of either of the statutes ; and that the order
of publication,- and the proceedings and decree thereupon,
were'wholly unauthorised, and unwarranted by the law of
the. land. The question is, is the decree therefore erroneous
only, or is it simply void.
"It seems'difficult to escape frbm the conclusion, that if
the order of publication was wholly unwarranted by law, the
publication is as if it had never been made. Even in cases
expressly authorised by the statute, a publication is only a
constructive notice to the party; but if the publication in

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Hollingsworth v's. Barbour and others.]

the particular case be unauthorised, no principle-is perceived upon which t can be regarded as constructive notice.
"It is an acknowledged general principle, that judgments
and decrees. are binding only upon parties and privies. The
reason of the rule is founded in the immutable principle of
natural justice, that no man's right should be prejudiced by
the judgment or decree of a court, without an opportunity
of defending the right. This opportunity is afforded, or supposed in law to be afforded, by a citation or notice to appear, actually served; or constructively, by pursuing such
meansas'the law may, in special cases, regard as equivalent
to personal service. The course of proceeding in admiralty
causes, and.some other cases where the proceeding is strictly
in rem, maybe supposed to be exceptions to this rule.
They are not properly exceptions: the law regards the seizure of the thing as constructive, notice to the whole world;
and all persons concerned in interest are considered as af.fected by this constructive notice. But, if 'these cases do
form an exception, the exception is confined to cases of the
class already noticed, where the proceeding is sfrictly and
properly in rem, and in which ihe thing condemned is first
seized and taken into the custody of the court. The case
under consideration is not properly a proceeding in rem;
and a decree in chancery for the conveyance of land has
never yet, withirt my knowledge, been-held to come within
the principle of proceedings io rem, so far as to dispense
with the service of process on the party. There is no seizure nor taking into the custody of the court the land, so as
to operate as constructive notice.. Constructive notice, *therefore, can only exist in the cases coming fairly withirr the
provisions of the statutes authorising the courts to make
orders of publication, and providing that the' publication,'
when made, shall authorise the courts to decree. It has
been already shown that thi-case is not within the provisions of any statute.
" It would seem to follow, that the court acted without
authority; and that the decree is void for want of'-jurisdiction in the'court. But if not void, a's
beinf coram non judice,
it i.void and wholry in,,ffectuial to -ind or prejudice the

SUPREME COURT.
[Hollingsworth vs. Barbour and others.]

rights of Hamlin's heirs, against whom'the decree was rendered; because they had no notice, either actual or constructive.
"The principle of the rule that decrees and judgments
bind only parties and privies, applies to the case: for though
the unknown'heirs of Hamlin are affected to be made parties
in the bill, there was no service of process, nor any equivalent to bring them before the court; so as to make them, in
the -eye of the law and justice, parties to the suit.
"The case of Hynes vs. Oldham, 3 Monroe's Reports, was
cited to prove that the proceedings in the caseWbf Hollingsworth vs. Hamlin's Heirs, were regular; btit if not so; that
they were at most only erroneous and not void. -The cases
appear to me to be essentially different. That was a case
within the jurisdiction of .the statutes authorising publications: the publication had been made, and the only objection
was, that it did 'not appear that an affidavit had been filed
-by the complainant that the. particular names of the heirs
were unknown to him before making the order of publication. It was decided that that omission niight have been
a cause of revision, or of reversal upon appeal to the appellate
court; but that the -decree was not therefore void,.
' In the case under consideration, the law did not
authorise, publication at all. It is a case in which 1he court had
no authority to pronounce any decree, until- the party was
served with process. It is not a case like the one cited,
where there is an irregularity merely in the manner of issuing
or awarding the notice by publication; but a case in which
notice by publication is wholly unauthorised. In the' case
cit 9 d, the court of appeals admit that a judgment or decue
rendered against a party without notice is void, and an
unauthorised publication cannot be regarded as notice; and
the case under consideration, is as if no attempt to give notice had been made.
"There is an obvious distinction in reason between this
case and:the'case where there hai been personal service of
irreghlar or erroneous process. In that'case the party has notice in part, and may,'if he will, appear and object to or waive
the irregularity; in this, the publication, being unauthorised,

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Hollingsworth vs. Barbour and others.].

is not even constructive notice : and unless the proceedings
are considered as void, the injured party may be remedilesS.
."There is another ground, on which it may well be questioned, whether the complainant has made out such a-6asas will enable him to set up and assert the entries, survey
-and patent of.John Abel Hamlin against the defendants.
The act of assembly of 1-802 authorises a decree upon* an
order of publication against heirs, where the particular names
of the-hers are unknown. ' But the acts of assembly do not
declare, .that it shall be taken for granted that there wereheirs, and'that the title passed by descent to them.; and by
the decree and commissioners' deed should pass to the complainant, whether any such heirs existed or not. The manir
fest object of the statute was, to dispense with the necessity
of inserting the particular names in the proceedings, and to
substitute in the stead of the particular names, their cha-:
racteristic description of heirs of the decedent. " But-it is
apprehended the record of the proceedings against: the
unkiown heirs, &6. is no eidence that any such heirs existed, and that the decree and deed, niade in pursuance of it,
cannot avail to pass any title, to the complainant; without
some evidence that John Abel. Hamlin lef( heirs, upon whom
his estate descended, and from whom it could pass by'the
commissioners' deed to the complainant. There is-no-'vidence in this cage, conduchig in .the slightest. degree to
show that John Abel Hamlin left any heirs capable of inheriting his estate. , There is nothing for the complainant to
rest upon but presumption. Although it may sometimes be
presumed that a decedent left heirs rather than that he left
none; it is not clear to my mind that the presumption should
be indulged ir a case like this, so far as to uphold the title
of the cQmplainant. It is but a presumption of fact. in any
case, and like other presumptions,- may be repelled by Couiltervailing facts and presumptions.
"It appears that Jehn Abel Hamlin was a foreigner from
France, and died in the city of Philadelphia about the year
.1788. The complainants' own bill against .the 'unknown
heirs of John Abel Hamlin, contains no allegations in terms
that he left any heirs cap'able of irtheriting: on the contra-

. 478

SUPREME COURT.
[Hollingsworth -vs. Barbour and others.]

ry, it expressly alleges, that he left neither wife nor child;
and that after much inquiry, no person could be found who
could give any account of his heirs. Twenty-five years
intervened between the death of John A. Hamlin and the exhibition of the complainants' -bill against his unknown heirs
in the Washington circuit court; and although it appears that
he, until his death, and the complainant resided in the city
of Philadelphia, and were personally known to each other;
no heir ever appeared to claim his estate, nor did Hollingsworth ever ascertain the existence'of any such heir. Nearly
forty years have transpired since the death of Hamlin, and
no heir has yet been heard of. Under such circumstances,
if the presumption that Hamlin left heirs is not absolutely
repelled, I think it so weakened, that the courN ought not
to rest upon it as sufficient to sustain the complainants' title
"against the defendants, who have tl" legal title, and have
been longin the possession and enjoyment of it. Even the indulgence of a general presumption that Hamlin left kindred,
who, if citizeng of the United States or of France, could in-herit his estate, would not avail the complainant, without
going the full length of presuming also that such kindred
were in fact citizens or Frenchmen. The presumption that
Hamlin left any kindred, citizens of the United States, is
strongly repelled by the statements ofllollingsworth's bill
in the Washington circuit court; and by all the circumstances of the case. There is nothing to found the presumption
upon, that he left heirs who were French citizens in 1788,
when he died.; but the circumstance that he had emigrated
from Brittany about br -previous to 1779 : crci6uuistance
too feeble to justify this court in finding the fact tc be so.
"If Hamlin left kindred who were aliens, and be] rnging to
any other nation, they could take nothing by descent, and
nothing could pass from them to the complainant. The
objection of the alienage of Hamlin and his heirs, regarding him and them as French nitizens or subjects, has not
been considered, deeming it unnecessary to express any opinion on that point. Entertaining the opinion, as the foregoing observations have' shown, that the complainant has
failed to show himself legally invested with the claim and

JANUARY TERM 1830.

479

[Hollingsworth vs. Barbour and others.]

title of John Abel Hamln, or of his heirs, if he left any, so
as to enable him to set up the entries, surveys and -patent, in
the name of John A. Hamlin, against the legal title and long
possession of the defendants; all investigation of the relative merits of the original claims is necessarily superseded."
The decree of the circuit court dismissing the bill of the
complainant is affirmed, with costs.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record, from the circuit court of the United States for the
district of Kentucky, and was argued by counsel; on conside, ation whereof, it is ordered, adjudged and decreed by
this court, that the decree of the said circuit court in this
cause be, and the same is hereby affirmed with costs.

