CHICAGO, MiLWAUKEE &c. RAILWAY v. SOLAN.

133

Opinion of the Court.

CHICAGO, MILWAUKEE AND ST. PAUL RAILWAY
COMPANY v. SOLAN.
ERRO

TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IOWA.
No. 78.

Argued November 1, 189T.-Declded January 1T, 1898.

A statute of a State, providing that no contract shall exempt any railroad
corporation from the liability of a common carrier, or carrier of passengers, which would have existed if no contract had been made, does
not, as applied to a claim for an injury happening within the State under
a contract for interstate transportation, contravene the provision of the
Constitution of the United States empowering Congress to regulate interstate commerce.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

.Mr. George . Clarke for plaintiff in error. .Xr. Burton
Han8on and XAfr. George R. Peck were on his brief.
.Mr.S. X. Stockslager for defendant in error.
C. Beard was on his brief.
MR.

JusTIoE

Mr. George

GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action brought in an inferior court of the State
of Iowa against a railroad corporation incorporated under the
laws of the State of Wisconsin, and authorized to transact
business in the State of Iowa, and having a railroad extending from Rock Valley in Iowa to Chicago in Illinois, to recover $10,000 as damages for injuries suffered by the plaintiff
between Boyden and Sheldon in Iowa, from the derailing, by
the defendant's negligence, of a caboose attached to a freight
train of the defendant, in which the plaintiff was travelling
-under a written contract by which the defendant agreed to
carry him with cattle from Rock Valley to Chicago.
The defendant, in its answer, denied its negligence, and
alleged contributory negligence on the part of the plaintiff;
and further alleged that by a clause in the contract under
which the plaintiff and the cattle were carried it was "among

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

other things expressly stipulated ' that the company shall in
no event be liable to the owner or person in charge of said
stock for any injury to his person in any amount exceeding
the sum of $500;' that in consideration of said clause in said
contract the defendant entered into a contract for the transportation of said stock from Rock Valley, Iowa, to Chicago,
Illinois, for a less sum than its regular, usual charges, which
fact the owner and shipper of said stock and the plaintiff all
well knew at the time of the making of the said contract, and
at the time the plaintiff started in transit with said stock from
Rock Valley, Iowa, to Chicago, Illinois; that said contract
related exclusively to interstate transportation and constituted
an interstate commerce transaction, and that the plaintiff and
the owner and shipper of said stock, having accepted the
benefits of said contract, are now estopped from questioning
its validity or disavowing the same; that at common law said
contract is a valid and legal contract, and that section 1308 of
the Code of Iowa is void and unconstitutional, so far as said
contract is concerned, as being an attempt to regulate and
limit contracts relating to interstate commerce; that under
and by virtue of the terms of said contract plaintiff is not entitled in any event to judgment herein to exceed the sum of
$500.,,
The section of the Code of Iowa, referred to in the answer,
is as follows: "1No contract, receipt, rule or regulation shall
exempt any corporation engaged in transporting persons or
property by railway from liability of a common carrier, or
carrier of passengers,. which would exist had no contract, receipt, rule or regulation been made or entered into." Iowa
Code of 1873, ยง 1308.
At the trial, it appeared that the plaintiff and the cattle
under his charge were carried under such a contract asalleged
in the answer, and that he suffered injuries as alleged in the
declaration; and the court, against the defendant's objections
and exceptions, excluded evidence offered by the defendant
that the rate on cattle carried the same distance under contracts other than this one was fifty per cent higher than was
charged by this contract; and instructed the jury that, if the

CHICAGO, ILWAUKEE &c. RAILWAY v. SOLAN.

135

Opinion of the Court.

defendant was negligent and the plaintiff was without fault,
the jury should allow him such a sum as would compensate
him for his injuries; and that the clause in the contract, limiting the plaintiff's damages to $500, was not permitted by law,
and was void.
The jury returned a verdict for the plaintiff in the sum of
$1000, upon which judgment was rendered. The defendant
appealed to the Supreme Court of Iowa, which affirmed the
judgment. 95 Iowa, 260. The defendant sued out this writ
of error.
By the law of this country, as declared by this court, in the
absence of any statute controlling the subject, any contract by
which a common carrier of goods or passengers undertakes
to exempt himself from all responsibility for loss or damage
arising from the negligence of himself or his servants is void
as against public policy, as attempting to put off the essential
duties resting upon every public carrier by virtue of his
employment, and as tending to defeat the fundamental principle on which the law of common carriers was establishedthe securing of the utmost care and diligence in the performance of their important duties to the public. Railroad Co.
v. -Lockwood, 17 Wall. 357; Liverpool Steam Co. v. Phenix
Ins. Co., 129 U. S. 397; Compania _La Flecha v. Brauer, 168
U. S. 104, 117. In the leading case of Railroad Co. v. Lockwood, above cited, it was accordingly adjudged that an agreement in writing with a railroad company, by which a drover
travelling with his cattle upon one of its trains, in consideration of his cattle being carried at less rates, stipulated to take
all risk of injury to them and of personal injury to himself,
did not exempt the company from all responsibility for injuries
to him caused by the negligence of its servants. In Hart v.
PennsylvaniaRailroad, 112 U. S. 331, the general rule was
affirmed; but a contract fairly made between a railroad company and the owner of goods, by which the latter was to pay
a rate of freight based on the condition that the company assumed liability only to the extent of an agreed valuation of
the goods, even in case of loss or damage by its negligence, was
upheld as a just and reasonable mode of securing a due pro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

portion between the amount for which the company might be
responsible and the compensation which it received, and of
protecting itself against extravagant or fanciful valuations.
The statute of the State of Iowa, the validity of which is
drawn in question in this case, affirms and extends, as applied
to railroad corporations, the principle of the common law, by
enacting that "no contract, receipt, rule or regulation shall
exempt any corporation engaged in transporting persons or
property by railway from liability of a common carrier, or
carrier of passengers, which would exist bad no contract, receipt, rule or regulation been made or entered into." Iowa
Code of 1873, ยง 1308 ; Iowa Stat. 1866, c. 113.
Under this statute, the courts of the State, in the case at
bar, held that the stipulation, in the contract under which the
plaintiff and the cattle in his charge were carried by the defendant, that the defendant should "in no event be liable to the
owner or person in charge of said stock in any amount exceeding the sum of $500," was void, and could not be enforced by
the courts. The plaintiff having been accordingly permitted
to recover a verdict and judgment for a larger sum, the question presented by this writ of error is whether the statute, as
applied to a claim, for an injury happening within the State,
under a contract for interstate transportation, contravenes the
provision of the Constitution of the United States empowering Congress to regulate interstate commerce.
This question is substantially answered by previous judgments of this court.
The question of the right of a railroad corporation to contract for exemption from liability for its own negligence is,
indeed, like other questions affecting its liability as a common
carrier of goods or passengers, one of those questions not of
merely local law, but of commercial law or general jurisprudence, upon which this court, in the absence of express statute
regulating the subject, will exercise its own judgment, uncontrolled by the decisions of the courts of the State in which
the cause of action arises. But the law to be applied is none
the less the law of the State; and may be changed by its
legislature, except so far as restrained by the constitution of

CHICAGO, MILWAUKEE &c. RAILWAY v. SOLAN.

137

Opinion of the Court.

the State or by the Constitution or laws of the United States.
Railroad Co. v. Lockwood, 17 Wall. 357, 368; Hough v. Railway Co., 100 U. S. 213, 226; Burges v. Seligman, 107 U. S.
20, 33; Myrick v. JAichigan Central Railroad,107 U. S. 102,
109; Smith v. Alabama, 12- U. S. 465, 476-478; Lake Shore
&c. Railway v. Prentice, 147 U. S. 101, 106; Baltimore &
Ohio Railroad v. Baugh, 149 U. S. 368; Paine v. Central
Vermont Railroad,118 U. S. 152, 161.
Railroad corporations, like all other corporations and persons, doing business within the territorial jurisdiction of a
State, are subject to its law. It is in the law of the State,
that provisions are to be found concerning the rights and
-duties of common carriers of persons or of goods, and the
measures by which injuries resulting from their failure to
perform their obligations may be prevented or redressed.
Persons travelling on interstate trains are as much entitled,
while within a State, to the protection of that State, as those
who travel on domestic trains. A carrier exercising his
calling within a particular State, although engaged in the
business of interstate commerce, is answerable, according to
the law of the State, for acts of nonfeasance or of misfeasance
committed within its limits. If he fails to deliver goods to
the proper consignee at the right time and place, or if by negligence in transportation he inflicts injury upon the person of
a passenger brought from another State, the right of action
for the consequent damage is given by the local law. It is
equally within the power of the State to prescribe the safeguards and precautions foreseen to be necessary and proper
to prevent by anticipation those wrongs and injuries, which,
after they have been inflicted, the State has the power to
redress and to punish. The rules prescribed for the construction of railroads, and for their management and operation,
designed to protect persons and property, otherwise endangered by their use, are strictly within the scope of the local
law. They are not, in themselves, regulations of interstate
commerce, although they control, in some degree, the conduct
and the liability of those engaged in such commerce. So
long as Congress has not legislated upon the particular sub-

138

OCTOBER TERMI, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

ject, they are rather to be regarded as legislation in aid of
such commerce, and as a rightful exercise of the police
power of the State to regulate the relative rights and duties.
of all persons and corporations within its limits.
Such are the grounds upon which it has been held to be.
within the power of the State to require the engineers and
other persons, engaged in the driving or management of all
railroad trains passing through the State, to submit to an
examination by a local board as to their fitness for their positions; or to prescribe the mode of heating passenger cars in.
such trains. Smith v. Alabama, 124 U. S. 465; .Vashville &c..
Railway v. Alabama, 128 U. S. 96; JLrew York, .ew Haven
& Har ford Railroad v. .7ew York, 165 U. S. 628. See alsoWestern Union Tel. Co. v. James, 162 U. S. 650; ffennington
v. Georgia, 163 U. S. 299; Gladson v. -Minnesota,166 U. S.
427.
The statute now in question, so far as it concerns liability
for injuries happening within the State of Iowa-which isthe only matter presented for decision in this case - clearly
comes within the same principles. It is in no just sense a
regulation of commerce. It does not undertake to impose any
tax upon the company, or to restrict the persons or things to&
be carried, or to regulate the rate of tolls, fares or freight.
Its whole object and effect are to make it more sure that railroad companies shall perform the duty, resting upon them by
virtue of their employment as common carriers, to use the
utmost care and diligence in the transportation of passengers
and goods.
Jadgment afirmed.

