BELEY v. NAPHTALY.
Statement of the Case.

BELEY v. NAPHTALY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.
Wo. 180. Submitted January 5, 1898. -Decded February28, 1S98.
The patent to the defendant in error does not preclude this court from inquiring into the effect of the act of July 23, 1866, c. 219, "to quiet land
titles in California;" and the court holds that that act does not require
proof of an actual grant from the Mexican authorities to some grantee
through whom the title set up is derived; but that the proper officers of
the United States had jurisdiction to issue a patent upon being satisfied
of the existence of those facts in regard to which it was their province
to determine; and that the act includes those who, in good faith and for
a valuable consideration, have purchased land from those who claimed
and were thought to be Mexican grantees or assigns, provided they fulfil the other conditions named in the act.
The facts in this case do not show, as matter of law, that Millett could not
have been a bona fide purchaser of these lands for a valuable consideration; and whether in fact he were so was a fact to be determined by the
Government on the issue of the patent, which precluded further inquiry
into that question.
A person who was within the statute and had the right to purchase land as
provided therein, could assign or convey his right of purchase and his
grantee could exercise that right.
The rejection by the Secretary of the Interior of the first application made
by the defendant in error for a patent, and the subsequent granting of a
rehearing and the issuing of a patent thereafter were all acts within his
jurisdiction.

Tmi defendant in error, who was the plaintiff below, brought
this action in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of California to recover the possession of
certain lands described in his complaint; and also the value of
the rents, issues and profits thereof. He alleged that he was
the owner in fee of the lands in question and entitled to their
possession, and that while such owner the defendants wrongfully entered upon the lands and ousted him therefrom, and
have since wrongfully withheld from him the possession thereof.
He further alleged that he was the owner of the land by virtue
of a patent duly and regularly issued to him by the United
VOL. crix-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

States in the year 1893, under and in pursuance of the provisions of the act of Congress of April 24, 1820, c. 51, 3 Stat.
566, entitled "An act making further provision for the sale of
the public lands," and the acts supplemental thereto, and also
under the provisions of section 7 of the act of Congress of July
23, 1866, c. 219, entitled "An act to quiet land titles in California," and that the defendants denied the validity of that
patent.
The defendants answered, denying the various allegations of
the complaint, and the case came to trial without a jury, a
jury having been waived by all the parties.
The plaintiff put in evidence the patent issued to him from
the United States for the land described in the complaint, and
proved that while he was in the peaceable and quiet possession
of such land the defendants entered upon it and ousted him
therefrom, and have ever since detained the land from him.
He also proved its rental value.
The bill of exceptions contains the following:
"It was then admitted by the defendants' counsel that at
the time of the issuance of the patent hereinbefore described
the lands therein and in the complaint described were public
lands of the United States, subject to sale under the laws of
the United States. It was here conceded by defendants' dounsel that defendants did not propose to connect themselves in
any manner or form with the title of the United States to the
premises described in the complaint herein, or any part thereof,
either by certificate of purchase, patent or anything of the
kind.
"The plaintiff then rested."
The plaintiff's action rests primarily upon section 7 of the
statute of the United States, entitled "An act to quiet land
titles in California," approved July 23, 1866. 14: Stat. 218,
220. That section, so far as material, reads as follows:
"So. 7. And be it further enacted, That where persons in
good faith, and for a valuable consideration, have purchased
lands of Mexican grantees or assigns, which grants have subsequently been rejected, or where the lands so purchased have
been excluded from the final survey of any Mexican grant, and

BELEY v. INAPHTALY.
Statement of the Case.

have used, improved and continued in the actual possession of
the same according to the lines of their original purchase, and
where no valid adverse right or title (except of the United
States) exists, such purchasers may purchase the same, after
having such lands surveyed under existing laws, at the minimum price established by law, upon first making proof of the
facts as required in this section, under regulations to be provided by the commissioner of the general land office, joint
entries being admissible by coterminous proprietors to such an
extent as will enable them to adjust their respective boundaries."
To maintain their defence, the defendants then offered in evidence the application made by the plaintiff to purchase the lands
from the United States pursuant to the seventh section above
quoted. The application and the accompanying papers were
offered for the purpose of showing that there had, in fact,
never been any grant from the Mexican government to the
Romeros, through whom, as supposed Mexican grantees, the
plaintiff below derived his claim, and by reason of which claim
he had made application to the land office under the provisions
of the seventh section of the above-mentioned act of Congress.
The papers offered in evidence by defendants showed that
while the country was under Mexican rule the Romeros had
taken proceedings to obtain a grant of lands, which included
the land in question,.from the Mexican government, and that
such proceedings had certainly gone as far as a final decree
by the governor providing for the making of a grant asked
for, but there was no record evidence of any actual grant ever
having been made. The facts as to the documentary evidence
in the case are fully set forth in the report of the case of
.Romero v. United States, 1 Wall. 721.
The evidence so offered by defendants was objected tb on
the part of the plaintiff as immaterial, incompetent and irrelevant for the purpose of affecting the validity of the patent
under which the plaintiff claimed title to the lands in question.
The court sustained the objection and the defendants duly
excepted. Thereupon the defendants rested, and the court
ordered judgment to be entered in favor of the plaintiff and

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

against the defendants for a recovery of the land in accordance with the prayer of the complaint. This judgment was
affirmed by the United States Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Ninth Circuit, 4d U. S. App. 232, and the case is brought
here for review.
.-M. Hen ry F. Crane for plaintiffs in error.
J r. A. T. Britton and -Mr. A. B. B rowne for defendant in
error.
M R. JUSTICE

PIECKHAM, after stating the facts, delivered the

opinion of the court.
I. The defendant in error insists that his patent is conclusive evidence that he is a purchaser within the meaning of
the seventh section of the statute above quoted, and that no
fraud being alleged, no evidence can be received for the purpose of in any other way invalidating the patent issued to him
by the Government of the United States.
The patent does not preclude this court from construing the
act of 1866, nor does it preclude an inquiry by the court
whether the patent was issued without authority or against
the expressed will of Congress, as manifested in the statute.
Bu fenning v. Chi/cago &c. Railway, 163 U. S. 321, and cases
there cited. If it were so issued, it is the duty of the court
to give no weight to it. The proper construction of the act
of 1866 is, therefore, the first question to be considered.
In order that a person may avail himself of that act, is it
necessary that an actual grant from the Mexican authorities
to some grantee through whom the title is derived should be
proved ? If so, the judgment in favor of the plaintiff in this
case must be reversed, as no such grant was proved. We are
of opinion, however, that the statute does not require proof of
such a grant.
When the United States took possession of that portion of
the country in which the lands in question are situated, it is
public knowledge that there were many claims made by

BELEY v. NAPHTALY.
Opinion of the Court.
private individuals to lands under alleged grants from the
preceding Mexican government. In order to ascertain and
settle the questions arising thereunder, Congress, on the 3d
of March, 1851, passed an act, c. 41, 9 Stat. 631, in which a
commission was constituted and before which claims of that
character might be proved. The eighth section provided,
"That each and every person claiming lands in California by
virtue of any right or title derived from the Spanish or
Mexican government, shall present the same to the said
commissioners when sitting as a board; together with such
documentary evidence and testimony of witnesses as the said
claimant relies upon in support of such claims; and it shall be
the duty of the commissioners, when the case is ready for
hearing, to proceed promptly to examine the same upon such
evidence and upon the evidence produced in behalf of the
United States, and to decide upon the validity of the said
claim, and, within thirty days after such decision is rendered,
to certify the same, with the reasons on which it is founded,
to the district attorney of the United States in and for the
district in which such decision shall be rendered."
It will be noticed that the jurisdiction here given was only
to decide upon the validity of the claim presented, and if the
commission decided that the claims were not valid ones, as
derived from the Mexican or Spanish government, it was the
duty of the commission to reject them. Provision was made
for a review of the decision of the commissioners by the District Court of the district in which the lands claimed were
situated, which court, upon such review, was authorized and
required "to decide on the validity of such claim," and an
appeal from the decision of the District Court was allowed to
be taken to the Supreme Court of the United States.
It appeared, from the documents offered in evidence in this
action, that the Romeros had presented their claim to this
commission, which had rejected it as not being a valid claim,
and this rejection had been affirmed by the District Court and
by the Supreme Court in the case in the first of Wallace,
mentioned above. There must undoubtedly have been, at the
time of the enactment of the act of 1866, many cases existing

358

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

in that part of the country, where claims of bona fde purchasers for value founded upon supposed rights or grants derived
from the Mexican or Spanish government had been held to be
invalid by the commission appointed under the act of 1851,
and where, notwithstanding such decision, the claimants had
remained in possession of the lands as originally acquired by
them, there being no valid adverse right or title to the lands
of which they were in possession, excepting that of the United
States. This would have been the natural result arising from
the difficulty in making formal and sufficient proof before the
commission of valid rights and titles derived from the Mexican or Spanish government. It was only valid claims that
the commission had power to allow. Where claims had been
made and theretofore adjudged invalid by the Supreme Court
of the United States, Congress bad, in some instances, by private act, permitted those who were bona fide purchasers from
the claimant whose claim had been adjudged invalid, or from
his assigns, to enter the land so purchased according to the
lines of the public surveys then provided for, at $1.25 per acre,
to the extent to which the lands had been reduced to possession at the time of the adjudication by the Supreme Court.
Such is the act, approved March 3, 1863, c. 116, 12 Stat. 808,
entitled "An act to grant the right of prefmption to certain
purchasers of the ISoscol Ranch' in the State of California."
See also a similar act, approved June 17, 1864, c. 133, 13 Stat.
136; also the act approved July 2, 1864, c. 218, 13 Stat. 372;
also the act approved March 3, 1865, c. 115, 13 Stat. 534.
Other acts were also passed by Congress recognizing in
effect the equitable rights of parties who were grantees of
those who had claimed a right or title under the Mexican or
Spanish government, and which right or title had subsequently been held to be invalid by the courts of our own
Government. The hardship to be relieved from by these
special acts and by the general act of 1866 did not solely exist
in the fact that there had been a formal grant from the Mexican authorities, which was in some manner defective, so that
no valid claim or right could grow out of such grant, but it
also existed when a claimant in possession of land which he

BELEY v. I APHTALY.
Opinion of the Court.

had bona fide and for a valuable consideration purchased of
one who claimed his right or title from the Mexican or Spanish government by way of a grant therefrom, was nevertheless unable to prove such grant, and as a consequence could
not prove any valid title or claim in himself. Whether such
invalidity were on account of some defect in the proceeding
which resulted in a defective grant or whether it existed by
reason of an inability to prove an actual grant was not material, so long as the claim of title actually rested upon what
was in good faith supposed to have been a valid claim under
the government of Mexico, and so long as there was no valid
adverse right or title other than that of the United States.
Persons occupying lands which they possessed under such circumstances and by such a claim were entitled to considerate
treatment from the Government of the United States. They
had in good faith paid a valuable consideration for the land
of which they were in possession by virtue of such purchase,
and they ought to have the first right to make good their title
by purchase from the Government at the lowest price named.
The defendants on the trial conceded these lands were,
Nwhen the patent in this case was issued, public lands of the
United States, subject to sale under the laws thereof, and that
they did not intend to connect themselves in any manner or
form with the title of the United States to the lands in question. There is no proof or offer of any proof in the record
tending to show the existence of any adverse valid claim to
the land, other than the United States, and the admission just
alluded to taken in connection with the absence of such proof
shows that when the patent issued there existed in fact no
other adverse valid claim upon the land than that of the
United States. Those who could not show actual grants from
the Mexican government might nevertheless have equities
quite as strong in their favor as those who could show an
actual grant which was defective. The act of Congress
should not be so construed as to except from its remedial provisions those who were without an actual grant while at the
same time filling every other requirement of the act, unless
the language used therein is open to no other interpretation.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

"Such a construction ought to be put upon a statute as will
best answer the intention which the makers bad in view, for
qui Atvret in litera, hcereg in cortice. In Bacon's Abridgment,
Statutes 1, 5; Puffendorf, book 5, chapter 12; Rutherford,
pp. 422, 527; and in Smith's Commentaries, 814, many
cases are mentioned where it was held that matters embraced
in the general words of statutes, nevertheless were not within
the statutes, because it could not have been the intention of the
lawmakers that they should be included. They were taken out
of the statutes by an equitable construction.

.

.

.

In some

cases the letter of a legislative act is restrained by an equitable
construction; in others it is enlarged; in others the construction
is contrary to the letter. The equitable construction which
restrains the letter of a statute is defined by Aristotle, as frequently quoted, in this manner: '.Equitas est correctio legis
generaliterlatwe qucpartidefcit.'" Biggs v. Palmer,115 N.
Y. 506, 510. Opinion by Earl, J.
Construing the act of Congress of 1866 under the circumstances above outlined, and in view of the general rules of
construction already stated, we hold that the provisions of the
seventh section of that act include such a case as this. The
purpose of the act is to quiet titles in California, and, as stated
by the court below, it is a remedial statute and one entitled to
a liberal construction in order to effect the purpose and object
of its enactment. When the act, therefore, speaks of bonade
purchasers for a valuable consideration of lands from Mexican
grantees or assigns, which grants have subsequently been
rejected, we do not think that the words "grantees" and
"grants" should have such a rigid and technical construction
as to require the actual existence of a formal grant from the
government of Mexico, but we are of opinion the act should
be construed in accordance with what we conceive to have
been its plain purpose, which was to cover the case of those
persons who in good faith and for a valuable consideration
have purchased lands (and taken and retained their possession)
from those who claimed and were supposed to be Mexican
grantees, but whose claims had been subsequently rejected.
Otherwise, it seems to us clear that the purpose for which this

BELEY v. NAPHTALY.
Opinion of the Court.

seventh section was passed would be so circumscribed as to
reduce it to much narrower limits than the known mischief to

be remedied called for.
The circumstances existing at the time of the passage of
this act necessarily lead to the belief that the purpose of its
enactment was to remedy (by purchase of the land from the
United States at the lowest rate) a defect in a title supposed
to have been derived from the Mexican government, where
the claimant had in good faith and for a valuable consideration purchased from one who claimed to be a Mexican grantee,
or from his assigns, and where there was no adverse claim
other than that of the United States. A remedial statute
ought not to be so construed as to defeat in part the very purpose of its enactment. United States v. Hodson, 10 Wall. 395.
In the case now before us it appears there had been very
strong parol evidence of the existence of an actual grant from
the Mexican government, but it was not thought to be strong
enough to overcome the absence of any record evidence of
such a grant. We think that under the statute of 1866 record
proof of the existence of a grant was not necessary in order to
give the officers of the United States jurisdiction to issue the
patent upon being satisfied of the existence of those facts in
regard to which it was their province to determine. The act
has received the same construction in the Supreme Court of
California in the case of Bascomb v. Davis, 56 California, 152.
The court there construed it so as to include those who in good
faith and for a valuable consideration had purchased lands
which were supposed to have been granted by the Mexican
government, and who had used, improved and continued in the
actual possession of the lands as provided in the act. This
construction by the California court is entitled to very high
consideration, and especially is this so in a case where the act
was directed to a condition of things in existence at the time
of its passage and with which the courts of that State would
be particularly familiar.
In Tinona,& St. Peter Railroad v. Barney, 113 U. S. 618,
this court construed an act of Congress which alluded to lands
"granted as aforesaid" as including lands purportingto have

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

been "granted as aforesaid," and this inclusion was made because the court was satisfied, taking all things into consideration, that such construction was what Congress meant. The
court simply carried out that intention by supplying a word
not found in the act.
For the reasons thus given we think this act includes those
persons who in good faith and for a valuable consideration
have purchased land from those who claimed and who were
thought to be Mexican grantees or assigns, provided they
fulfil the other conditions named in the act.
II. Coming to the conclusion we have, there is another objection made to the title on the part of the plaintiffs in error.
They urge that the statute requires that the person who
purchased the land should have made his purchase from the
Mexican grantee or his assignee in good faith, and it is stated
that as the defendant in error made his purchase from a
remote grantee of the Romeros on the 15th of May, 1876,
twenty years after the claim had been rejected by the commissioners appointed under the act of 1851, eighteen years
after it had been rejected by the United States District Court,
and thirteen years after it had been rejected by this court, it
was clear as a legal result from these facts that he could not
be a purchaser in good faith.
It appears however that on the 8th of August, 1859, one
S. P. Millett became a grantee and entered into the possession
of the lands, used, improved and cultivated them, and continued in the actual possession thereof according to the lines
of the original purchase until 1868, and that the defendant in
error claims through Millett by several mesne conveyances.
Plaintiffs in error object that Millett was not a purchaser in
good faith because he did not purchase until October, 1859,
before which time the claim of the Romeros had been rejected
by the commissioners and by the United States District Court.
An appeal from those decisions was pending at the date above
mentioned before this court, and it was therein contended that
the IRomeros had a valid claim under the Mexican government
such as should have been recognized by the commissioners and
by the District Court, and such as ought to be recognized by

BELEY v. NAPHTALY.
Opinion of the Court.

the Supreme Court. We do not think the facts thus stated
show, as matter of law, that Millett could not have been a
bonacfide purchaser of these lands for a valuable consideration,
and whether in fact he were such bona fide purchaser was
a question to be determined by the Government on issuing
the patent, and an inquiry into that question of fact is precluded by the patent itself.
III. It is also objected that even if iillett were adjudged
a purchaser in good faith from a Mexican grantee, he could
not convey to another his right under the statute of 1866, but
that it was a mere personal privilege which he might exercise
to purchase the land at the minimum price established by law.
We think that a person who was within the statute and who
had the right to purchase laud as provided therein was not
confined to the actual purchase himself, but that he could
assign or convey such right, and that his grantee or assignee,
immediate or remote, could, so far as this point is concerned,
exercise the same right of purchase which he had before he
conveyed or assigned.
In Thredgill v. .Pintard,12 How. 24, the court recognized
the right of an individual in possession of land and who was
entitled to a predmption right therein to convey such right to
another.
In Webster v. Luther, 163 U. S. 331, it was held that persons
entitled under the Revised Statutes, section 2304-, to enter a
homestead, who may have theretofore entered under the homestead laws a quantity of land less than 160 acres, and who had
the right under section 2306 to make an additional entry for
the deficiency, could transfer such right by a proper conveyance.
In the above cases the general rule of law which discourages
all restraints upon alienation was recognized, and the assignment of a right before entry was held valid, one of the reasons
for such holding being that there was no restriction against
such assignment contained in the act creating the right. Nor
is any such restriction to be found in the act of 1866.
Upon this question it must be assumed that Millett was a
purchaser in good faith. Being such a purchaser he could

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

assign his right and title to another, and the rights under such
assignment were not affected by the fact that the defendant
in error did not purchase his title until many years after the
final determination by this court that no formal, actual or
valid grant had ever been made by the Mexican government
to the Romeros.
IV. We are also of opinion that the rejection by the Secretary of the Interior of the first application made by the
defendant in error for a patent, and the subsequent granting
of a rehearing and the issuing of a patent thereafter by the
Secretary, were all acts within the jurisdiction of that officer.
The fact that a decision refusing the patent was made by one
Secretary of the Interior, and, upon a rehearing, a decision
granting the patent was made by another Secretary of the
Interior, is not material in a case like this. It is not a personal
but an official hearing and decision, and it is made by the
Secretary of the Interior as such Secretary, and not by an
individual who happens at the time to fill that office, and the
application for a rehearing may be made to the successor in
office of the person who made the original decision, provided
it could have been made to the latter had he remained in
office. The Secretary who made the first decision herein,
could have granted a rehearing and reversed his former
ruling.
The case of United States v. Stone, 2 Wall. 525, has no bearing adverse to this proposition. In that case it was stated that
a patent is but evidence of a grant, and the officer who issues
it acts ministerially and not judicially; that if he issues a
patent for land reserved from sale by law, such patent is void
for want of authority, but that one officer of the land office is
not competent to cancel or annul the act of his predecessor;
that is a judicial act and requires the judgment of a court.
The power to cancel or annul in that case meant the power to
annul a patent issued by a predecessor, and this court held no
such power existed. The officer originally issuing it would have
had no greater power to annul the patent than had his successor.
Neither does 2Noble v. Ulnion River Zogging Railroad,147

BELEY v. NAPHTALY.
Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 165, touch the-case. The principle therein decided was
in substance the same as in the Stone case, supra. The control of the department necessarily ceased the moment the title
passed from the Government. It was not a question whether
a successor was able to do the act which the original officer
might have done, but it was the announcement of the principle
that no officer, after the title had actually passed, had any
power over the matter whatever. After the Secretary of the
Interior had approved the map as provided for in the act of
Congress under which the proceedings were taken by the company, the first section of that act vested the right of way in
the company. This was equivalent to a patent, and no revocation could thereafter be permitted. See also .Michigan
-Land& Lumber Co. v. Bust, 168 U. S. 589, at 592.
We have considered the other questions raised herein but
do not think any error was committed in their disposition by
the courts below. The judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals must be
Afiiv'med.
MiR. JUsTIcE HARLAN dissented.

SMITH V. NAP TALY. Appeal from the United States Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. No. 181. Submitted with
No. 180. MR. JusTIcE PECKHIMA delivered the opinion of the
court. .In this case, counsel for the appellant concedes that if the
court should hold that the sale of the land mentioned in the patent
involved in the foregoing case were a valid sale, then the judgment
in this case should be affirmed. As we do so hold, the judgment
herein is, therefore,
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN dissented.
Same counsel and same briefs as in No. 180.

