In re BOARDMAN, Applicant on behalf of Durrant.

39

Syllabus.

come with very good grace from the defendant to insist upon
the most specific and certain proof as to the cause and the
amount of the damage when he has himself been guilty of
a most inexcusable violation of the covenants which were
inserted for the very purpose of preventing the result which
has come about."
We are of opinion that the Court of Appeals erred in affirming the judgment of the Supreme Court of the District.
The judgment is reversed, and the cause is remanded, with
directionsfor a new trial in the Supreme Court of the
.Districtandforfurther yroceedings consistent with this
opinion.

In re BOARDMAN, Applicant on behalf of Durrant.
ORIGINAL.

No number: Presented and denied, January 7,1898.

Application for leave to file a petition for a writ of habeas corpus will be
denied if it be apparent that the only result, if the writ were issued,
would be the remanding of the petitioner.
The action of a Circuit Court in refusing an appeal from a final order dismissing a petition for habeas corpus and denying the writ cannot be revised by this court on habeas corpus.
The fact that, when an appeal from a final order of a Circuit Court, denying
a writ of habeascorpus and dismissing the petition therefor of a person
confined under state authority, has been prosecuted to this court and the
order affirmed, the state court proceeds to direct sentence of death to be
enforced before the issue of the mandate from this court, does not justify
the interposition of this court by the writ of habeas corpus.
Where the statdtes of a State provide that execution under a sentence of
death shall not be stayed by an appeal to the highest tribunal of the State
unless a certificate of probable cause be granted as provided, and such
certificate has been refused, and application for supersedeas denied, this
court cannot interfere on habeas corpus on the ground, if Federal questions were raised on such appeal, that thereby the party condemned is
deprived of the privilege or immunity of suing out a writ of error from
this court.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

Mr.Louis P. Boardman in person for petitioner.
No one opposing.
Mr. CHIEF

JUSTICE

FULLER delivered the opinion of the

court.
Application was made on behalf of Durrant, held in custody
by the warden of the State's prison at San Quentin, California,
for execution to-day, under sentence of death, for leave to file
a petition for the writ of habeas corpus.
The petition in support of general allegations that Durrant
was confined under proceedings in contravention of the Constitution and laws of the United States, set forth, in hcc vera,
two petitions for the writ presented on Durrant's behalf to
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Ninth Circuit
and Northern District of California, on November 11 and
December 31, 1897, respectively; and the action of that court
in respect thereof.
The averments of these petitions must be considered in the
light of sections 1227 and 1243 of the Penal Code of California, which read as follows:
"ยง 1227. If for any reason z judgment of death has not
been executed, and it remains in force, the court in which the
conviction is had, on the application of the district attorney
of the county in which the conviction is had, must order the
defendant to be brought before it, or if he is at large, a warrant for apprehension may be issued. Upon the defendant
being brought before the court, it must inquire into the facts,
and if no legal reasons exist against the execution of the judgment, must make an order that the warden of the state prison
to whom the sheriff is directed to deliver the defendant shall
execute the judgment at a specified time. The warden must
execute the judgment accordingly."
"ยง 1243. An appeal to the Supreme Court from a judgment
of conviction, stays the execution of the judgment in all capital cases, and in all other cases upon filing with the clerk of
the court in which the conviction was had, a certificate of the
judge of such court, or of a justice of the Supreme Court,

In re BOARDMAN, Applicant on behalf of Durrant.

41

Opinion of the Court.

that, in his opinion, there is probable cause for the appeal,
but not otherwise."
It was alleged in the petition of November 11, that, theretofore, Durrant had been found guilty of murder in the first
degree in the Superior Court of the city and county of San
Francisco; that judgment had been rendered on the verdict,
and he had been sentenced to death; that an appeal had been
taken from that judgment to the Supreme Court of California,
and the judgment affirmed. See 48 Pac. Rep. 75.
That on April 10, 1897, the Superior Court rendered a
second judgment against Durrant, from which he took an
appeal to the state Supreme Court, raising Federal questions
thereon, and that that appeal was still pending and undetermined.
That on June 2, 1897, application had been made by Durrant to said Circuit Court of the United States for a writ of
htabeas corpus, which application was denied, and from that
order an appeal was duly taken and perfected to the Supreme
Court of the United States, but that no mandate showing the
determination of that appeal had been filed in the Circuit
Court, yet, nevertheless, judgment was entered by the Superior
Court, November 10, sentencing Durrant to be executed Friday, November 12, though that court was without authentic
or official information that said appeal had been considered
or determined in the Supreme Court of the United States.
Hence it was charged that the judgment of the Superior
Court of November 10 was null and void; and also because
of the pendency of the appeal from the alleged judgment of
April 10, 1897.
It was further averred that the Circuit Court on the
eleventh of November denied the writ and dismissed the petition; that from this order .petitioner prayed an appeal, presenting a notice of appeal, assignment of errors, citation and
bond for costs; and that the Circuit Court refused to allow
an appeal, or to permit the papers to be filed, and neither of
its judges would approve the bond, nor sign the citation.
The petition of December 31 reiterated in substance the
allegations of the previous application, and insisted that by

OCTOBER TERI,

1897.

Opinion of the Court.

reason thereof an appeal from the final order of the Circut
Court of November 11 was actually pending in the Supreme.
Court of the United States, and suspended further proceedings.
against Durrant, but that, nevertheless, the Superior Court on,
December 15, 1897, though without authority and contrary to.
the Constitution and laws of the United States, entered an.
order directing the execution of Durrant on January 7, 1898;:
that from this order Durrant had prosecuted an appeal to theSupreme Court of California, which was still pending and,
undetermined; and that the judge of the Superior Court and,
the justices of the Supreme Court had refused to grant a cer-tificate of probable cause, so that the proceedings below werenot stayed by said appeal.
That Federal questions had been raised before the SuperiorCourt and that the disposition thereof was brought underreview by the appeal to the Supreme Court, and that if the
order of December 15 were carried into effect, petitioner
would be deprived of the right to prosecute a writ of error
from the Supreme Court of the United States to the final
judgment of the Supreme Court of California in respect of
such Federal questions; as was true also of the appeal from
the judgment of April 10, 1897.
Some other matters were put forward in the petitions, but
these were not insisted on at the bar, and were so evidently
destitute of merit as to require no observations.
The contention here practically rested on these grounds:
First. That the judgment of the Superior Court on the
tenth of November was void because the mandate of this court
on the appeal from the final order of the Circuit Court of
June 2 had not been sent down; and that although the Circuit Court denied an appeal from its final order refusing the
writ and dismissing the petition of November 11, still the
appeal should be regarded as duly perfected, and that for that
reason, or because the Circuit Court could not arbitrarily defeat such appeal, petitioner was entitled through the interposition of this court by the issue of the writ applied for to be
placed in the same position as if the appeal had been granted.
Second. That as the appeals from the judgments of April

In re BOARDMANT, Applicant on behalf of Durrant.

43-

Opinion of the Court.

10 and of December 15 involved Federal questions and were
still pending in the state Supreme Court, the execution of the
sentence in accordance with the state statutes would deprive
petitioner of the right, privilege and immunity of suing out.
writs of error from this court to revise the final judgments of
that court when entered on those appeals.
The rule was laid down in Spies v. Illinois, 123 U. S. 131,
that when application is made to this court for the allowance
of a writ of error to the highesf court of a State, the writ will
not be allowed if it appear from the face of the record that
the decision of the Federal question which is complained of
was so clearly right as not to require argument. And ther
same rule governs an application to us for the writ of habeas
corpus, which must be denied, if it be apparent that the only
result, if the writ were issued, would be the remanding of the
petitioner to custody, for the object of the writ is to ascertain
whether the prisoner applying for it can legally be detained,
and it is the duty of the court, justice or judge, granting the
writ, on hearing, "to dispose of the party as law and justice
may require." Rev. Stat. ยง 761; Jasigi v. Van. De Carr, 166U. S. 391; -kiu v. United States, 142 U. S. 651.
The action of the Circuit Court in refusing to grant the
appeal from its final order of the 11th of November, on the
petition then presented, and in declining to entertain the petition of December 31, cannot be revised on this application,
and the inquiry really is whether these petitions furnish any
ground for the conclusion that if the writ were granted theprisoner's detention would be found illegal.
As it appears on the face of the record that the judgment
of Nqovember 10 was superseded and that petitioner is held for
execution under the judgment of December 15, it- manifestly
follows that we could not enlarge the prisoner as unlawfully
detained on the ground that if the Circuit Court had allowed
an appeal from its final order of November 11, further proceedings below would have been stayed until that appeal -was
disposed of.
Nor could we hold that that final order was erroneous
because the judgment of November 10 was entered in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

absence of our mandate on the affirmance of the final order
of the Circuit Court of June 2, 1897. The judgment of this
court affirming that order was rendered, as we know from our
own records, November 8 (see 168 U. S. 705), and we have
decided that if the state court after judgment here proceeds
before our mandate issues, its action, though not to be commended, is not void. In re Shiluya Jugiro,140 U. S. 291.
In this instance the state trial court did so proceed, but, in
the due and orderly administration of justice, its judgment
was superseded by the Supreme Court of the State, which, it
is proper to note, granted the certificate of probable cause on
the principal ground that the lower court could not exercise
jurisdiction to fix a day for the execution of sentence against
defendant, in the absence of authentic and official evidence of
the disposal of the appeal to this court. People v. Durrant,
50 Pac. Rep. 1070.
In respect of the alleged abridgment of petitioner's priiilege or immunity to sue out writs of error from this court
to revise the final judgments of the state Supreme Court on
appeals therein pending, and particularly the appeal from
the judgment of the Superior Court of Decembe 15, which,
it was argued, raised Federal questions, it is sufficient to say
that it was for the trial judge or the Supreme Court of California to determine whether or not the judgments complained
of should be stayed or superseded, and with such determination it is not our province through this writ to interfere, nor
do the statutory provisions in that behalf, in themselves, involve any infraction of the Constitution or laws of the United
States. Koll v. Lehlback, 160 U. S. 293; Bergemann v.
Backer, 157 U. S. 655; Andrews v. Swartz, 156 U. S. 272.
All the averments in the papers, as well as a petition for
a writ of error, which had been previously presented to some of
our number and denied, as was admitted, and the suggestions
urged at the bar, have been duly considered, with the result
that the court is unanimously of opinion that if the writ
should be awarded, it would be its duty on the return thereto
to remand the petitioner. The application is, therefore,
Denied.

