PAYNE v. ROBERTSON.
Statement of the Case.

appropriations. We do not want to be understood as saying
that the mere fact of receiving money in payment will estop a
creditor. But where, as in this case, the payments were made
frequently, through a considerable period of time, and were received without objection or protest, and where there is no pretence of fraud, or of circumstances constituting duress, it is
legitimate to infer that such payments were made and received
on the understanding of both parties that they were in full.
Such a presumption is very much strengthened by the lapse bf
two years before the appellee thought fit to make any demand.
These views sufficiently dispose of the case, and render it
unnecessary to consider the other contentions urged on behalf
of the government.
The decree of the Court of Claims is reversed, and the cause
is remanded to that court with directions to dismiss the
claimant'spetition.

PAYNE v. ROBERTSON.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
OKLAHOMA.
No. 20. Submitted January17, 1898. -Decided

February 28, 1898.

A deputy marshal of the United States, duly appointed as such prior to the
passage of the act of March 2, 1889, c. 412, providing for the opening of the
Territory of Oklahoma to settlement, and prior to the proclamation of
the President of Mlarch 23, 1889, fixing the time of the opening of the
lands for settlement, and who entered on said lands and remained there
in his official character prior to the day fixed for said opening, was
thereby disqualified from making a homestead entry immediately upon
the lands being opened for settlement.

PAYNE, the appellant here, filed his bill of complaint in the
District Court for the.county of Logan and Territory of Okla-

homa, First Judicial District, against the present appellees.
It was averred in the bill that prior to the passage of the act

of Congress of March 2, 1889, providing for opening the
Oklahoma lands for settlement, the complainant had been

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

duly appointed and qualified as a deputy marshal of the
United States, and that after the proclamation of the President, on March 23, 1889, declaring that said lands would be
open to settlement after noon of the 22d of April, 1889, complainant, in pursuance of orders of his superior officer, the
marshal of the United States for the District of Kansas,
went into the Territory, to the locality where the United
States land office at Guthrie was located, for the purpose of
preserving public order. That being rightfully in said Territory and possessed of all the qualifications required by the act
of Congress to authorize an entry of lands in such Territory for
the purpose of a homestead, complainant, after twelve o'clock
noon of said April 22, 1889, settled upon a named quarter
section of land, at once commenced digging a well thereon,
and claimed the same as his homestead, and that on the next
day he duly entered said tract of land at the United States
land office in Guthrie, paid the necessary charges and expenses
connected with such entry, and thereafter fully complied with
all other requirements of the homestead law. Though the
bill averred that at the time of his going into the Territory
to perform the duties of deputy marshal, complainant "had
formed no purpose or intention in regard to selecting and taking a homestead when said lands should be duly opened to
settlement," nevertheless it was averred elsewhere in the bill,
that in reliance on certain opinions and assurances of the
Commissioner of the General Land Office and the Secretary of
the Interior, claimed to have been communicated to parties
similarly situated as was the complainant, to the effect that
persons so situated were not disqualified from entering a homestead when the lands became opened to settlement, complainant remained in the Territory and made the settlement in
question. It was further averred that, subsequent to such
entry and settlement, the defendant Fitzgerald went upon
and claimed said tract of land as a homestead, and that other
parties, by force and against the notice and warning of the
complainant, proceeded to stake off and occupy a large portion
thereof as a townsite in violation of law and of the prior superior homestead rights of the complainant. It was also averred

PAYNE v. ROBERTSON.
Opinion of the Court.

that on May 9, 18S9, the townsite claimants instituted proceedings in the United States land office at Guthrie, Oklahoma,
to obtain a cancellation of the homestead entry of complainant, and that ultimately such entry was cancelled, the Secretary of the Interior approving the action of the Commissioner
of the General Land Office in ordering such cancellation, on
the ground that complainant was disqualified by his presence
in the Territory prior to the time fixed in the proclamation of
the President, from making the entry. It was further averred
that subsequently the Secretary of the Interior, in pursuance
of the provision of the act of -May 14, 1890, c. 207, appointed
the defendants Robertson, Foster and Schnell to prove up and
enter the tract of land claimed for a townsite, in trust for the
inhabitants of a town to be called East Guthrie, and that
after final entry by such trustees a patent of the United States
was duly issued to them, which it was claimed vested in said
defendants the legal title to the land covered by the patent.
In conclusion, complainant averred that he had done all
things required by law in order to be entitled to a final patent, and that he was the equitable owner of the land claimed
by him; that the Secretary of the Interior had misapplied
and misconstrued the law in cancelling the entry of complainant; and he prayed that the townsite trustees might be
divested of the legal title to the tract in question and it be
vested in complainant. The bill was demurred to upon various grounds, and the demurrer being sustained a decree was
thereupon entered dismissing the bill. On appeal, this decree
was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the Territory, and from
the decree of affirmance an appeal was taken to this court.
.M&. .enry I. Co.p, Mr. S. D. .uckett, iWr. John W.
Daniel and .Mr. Amos Green for appellant.
Mr. Solicitor General, Air. Horace Speed and Mr. Bayard
T. Hayner for appellees.
M z. JusTIoE WITrE, after stating the case as above reported,
delivered the opinion of the court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

In sustaining the demurrer the lower courts passed upon
but one of the grounds stated therein, namely, that which
asserted that the complaint did not set forth a cause of action.
This contention went to the merits of the case and called for
a decision of the question whether the Secretary of the Interior, upon the facts found by him, properly held that Payne
was disqualified from making his alleged entry. As this is
the pivotal point in the case and its decision is free from
difficulty, we shall confine ourselves, in this opinion, to its
consideration.
The ruling of the Secretary of the Interior that the settlement made by complainant was invalid is averred in the bill
to have been based upon the following finding of facts:
"Ransom Payne made homestead entry for the N. W. I of
section nine (9) on April 23, 1889. Said Ransom Payne was
a United States deputy marshal, duly appointed prior to the
passage of the act of March 2, 1889, (16 0. L. 0. 10, 11,) providing for the opening of the Territory of Oklahoma to settlement, and prior to the proclamation of the President fixing
the day for said opening, and he entered said Territory prior
to April 22, and was there at noon of that day in obedience
to orders issued by his superior officer, and he was there in
the discharge of his official duties. Immediately after 12
o'clock noon of April 22 he went upon the laud in question
and commenced to dig a hole in the ground for a well, and as
soon as practicable appeared at the local office and made
his
entry. So far as his age, citizenship, etc., are concerned he
-was a qualified homestead claimant, and he bases his claim
upon his prior settlement."
The statute which it is claimed was misconstrued and misapplied by the Secretary of the Interior in his decision sustaining the cancellation of Payne's entry, is that portion of section
13 of the Indian appropriation act approved March 2, 1889,
c. 412, 25 Stat. 980, 1004, which, after stipulating for the disposal of lands acquired from the Seminole Indians to actual
settlers under the homestead laws only, except as therein
otherwise provided, declared that "until said lands are opened
for settlement by proclamation of the President, no person

PAYNE v. ROBERTSON.
Opinion of the Court.

shall be permitted to enter upon and occupy the same, and no
person violating this provision shall ever be permitted to enter
any of said lands or acquire any right thereto." It was also
claimed that the Secretary misconstrued and misapplied the
proclamation of the President of date March 23, 1889, 26 Stat.
1544, fixing the time for the opening of the lands for settlement, particularly that portion which reads as follows:
":Now, therefore, I, Benjamin Harrison, President of the
United States, by virtue of the power in me vested by said act
of Congress, approved March second, eighteen hundred and
eighty-nine, aforesaid, do hereby declare and make known, that
so much of the lands, as aforesaid, acquired from or conveyed
by the Muscogee (or Creek) Nation of Indians, and from or by
the Seminole Nation of Indians, respectively, as is contained
within the following-described boundaries, viz.:
"Will, at and after the hour of twelve o'clock, noon, of the
twenty-second day of April, next, and not before, be open for
settlement, under the terms of, and subject to, all the conditions, limitations and restrictions contained in said act of
Congress, approved March second, eighteen hundred and
eighty-nine, and the laws of the United States applicable
thereto. :
"Warning is hereby again expressly given, that no person
entering upon and occupying said lands before said hour
of twelve o'clock, noon, of the twenty-second day of April,
A.D. eighteen hundred and eighty-nine, hereinbefore fixed,
will ever be permitted to enter any of said lands or acquire
any rights thereto; and that the officers of the United States
will be required to strictly enforce the provision of the act of.
Congress to the above effect."
The question presented is, therefore, solely this: Was the
complainant disqualified by reason of his entry into the Terri.tory and his presence there at the hour of the opening of the
Territory for settlement, under the circumstances stated in the
finding of the Secretary, from making a homestead entry
immediately upon the lands being opened for settlement?
This question is governed by the case of Smith v. Tdwnsend,
148 U. S. 490. The point there presented was whether a

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

railroad section hand, residing with his family on a railroad
right of way within the Territory, and who by reason of his
employment and residence was present therein at the hour of
noon on April 22, 1889, could immediately thereafter legally
enter upon public land adjoining said right of way and claim
the same as a homestead.
A construction was rendered
necessary of the second section of the act of March 1, 1889,
c. 317, 25 Stat. 757, 759, ratifying and confirming an agreement with the Muscogee (or Creek) Indians, whereby a large
body of their lands, subsequently included in the Territory of
Oklahoma, had been ceded to the United States. The section
referred to declared the ceded land to be part of the public
domain and subject to homestead entry. The concluding
sentence of the section read as follows:
"Any person who may enter upon any part of said lands
in said agreement mentioned prior to the time that the same
are opened to settlement by act of Congress shall not be permitted to occupy or to make entry of such lands or lay any
claim thereto."
A construction was also required of the substantially similar
provision contained in the act of March 2, 1889, heretofore
quoted, and of the "warning" notice contained in the proclamation of March 23, 1889, which we have also heretofore
referred to. To aid in construing these provisions resort was
had to the history of the times, in order'to ascertain the
reason of the statutes as well as their meaning, and the conclusion was deduced (p. 496) that the purpose of the legislative
provisions referred to was "to secure equality between all
who desired to establish settlements in that Territory. The
language is general and comprehensive: 'IAny person who
may enter upon any part of said lands . . . prior to the
time that the same are opened to settlement . . . shall
not be permitted to occupy or to make entry of such lands
or lay any claim thereto.' 'Until said lands are opened for
settlement by proclamation of the President, no person shall
be permitted to enter upon and occupy the same, and no person violating this provision shall ever be permitted to enter
any of said lands, or acquire any right thereto.' No excep-

PAYNE v. IROBERTSON.

329.

Opinion of the Court.

tion is made from the general language of these provisions;
and it was evidently the expectation of Congress that they
would be enforced in the spirit of equality suggested by the
generality of the language."
And, again, at page 500, the court observed:
"The evident intent of Congress was, by this legislation, to
put a wall around this entire Territory, and disqualify from
the right to acquire, under the homestead laws, any tract
within its limits, every one who was not outside of that wall
on April 22. When the hour came the wall was thrown down,
and it was a race between all outside for the various tracts
they might desire to take to themselves as homesteads."
Subsequently, conceding that Smith, the appellant in the
case, was lawfully on the right of way of the railroad company,
and that he possessed all the qualifications prescribed by the
general homestead law, it was said (p. 500):
"He did not have the qualifications prescribed by this
statute; and there is nothing ,to prevent Congress, when it
opens a particular tract for occupation, from placing additional
qualifications on those who shall be permitted to take any
portion thereof. That is what Congress did in this case. It
must be presumed to have known the fact that on this right of
way were many persons properly and legally there; it must
also have known that many other persons were rightfully in
the Territory -Indian agents, deputy marshals, mail carriers,
and many others; and, if it intended that these parties, thus
rightfully within the Territory on the day named, should have
special advantage in the entry of tracts they desired for occupancy, it would have been very easy to have said so. The
general language used in these sections indicates that it was
the intent to make the disqualifications universally absolute.
It does not say 'any person who may wrongfully enter,' etc., but
'any person who may enter'- Irightfully or wrongfullyI is
implied. There are special reasons why it must be believed
that Congress intended no relaxation of these disqualifications
on the part of those on the company's right of way, for it is
obvious that, when a railroad runs through unoccupied territory like Oklahoma, which on a given day is opened for settle-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

ment, numbers of settlers will immediately pour into it and
large cities will shortly grow up along the line of the road; and
it cannot be believed that Congress intended that they who
were on this right of way in the employ of the railroad company should have a special advantage of selecting tracts, just
outside that right of way, and which would doubtless soon
become the sites of towns and cities."
And in concluding its opinion the court held that " one who
was within the territorial limits at the hour of noon of April
22 was, within both the letter and spirit of the statute, disqualified to take a homestead therein."
The reasoning of the opinion to which we have referred is
fully applicable to the facts of the case under review; indeed,
the very character of case now presented was referred to in
illustration. In accordance with the views there expressed,
we must, therefore, hold that as the appellant was within the
Territory just prior to, and at the moment of, time when the
land first became legally open to settlement, he was disqualified
at that time from entering upon and claiming lands therein as
a homestead. Manifestly, Congress did not intend that one
authorized to enter the Territory in advance of the general
public, solely to perform services therein as an employ6 of the
Government, should be at liberty, immediately on the arrival
of the hour for opening the Territory to settlement, to assume
the status of a private individual and "actual settler," and
make selection of a homestead, thus clearly securing an advantage in selection over those who, obedient to the command of
the President, remained without the boundaries until the time
had arrived when they might lawfully enter.

Afflrmed.

