UNITED STATES v. KLUITPP.
Syllabus.

knowledge of the alleged wrong, he has allowed the bar of
the statute of limitations to arise, and has slept upon his rights
until such a situation has arisen as to render it inequitable to
afford him relief. By the effect of the proposition referred
to these principles are subverted, and a new doctrine arises
which may be thus stated: A court of equity will not grant
relief against fraud where the one against whom the fraud
has been committed has, after its discovery, allowed the bar
of the statute of limitations to be accomplished, unless there
has been fraud, and if there has been such fraud neither laches
nor limitation can ever apply.
Because we rest our conclusions upon the applicatiQn of the
bar of the statute and the laches of Cummings, we must not
be considered as intimating that we conclude that there was
either clear and convincing proof, or even a preponderance of
proof, that the sale was as claimed by Cummings.
It follows that the decree of the Court of Apeals of the
Districtof Columbia must be reversed, and the cause be
remanded to that court, with. directions to set aside the
decree of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia,
and to remand the cause to that court with instructions to
dismiss the bill, and it is so ordered.

UNITED STATES v. KLUMPP'
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 159. Argued January 20,1698. -Decided

February 21, 189S.

In paragraph 297 of the tariff act of August 27, 1891, c. 349, 28 Stat. 509,
providing that" the reduction of the rates of duty herein provided for
manufactures of wool shall take effect January first, eighteen hundred
and niney-five," the words "manufactures of wool" had relation to the
raw material out of which the articles were made, and, as the material of
worsted dress goods was wool, such goods fell within the paragraph.
1 The docket title of this case is "The United States, Appellant, v. Alexander Murphy & Co."
VOL. CLXIX-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

Ox the thirtieth day of August, A.D. 1894, John F. Klumpp
and others, doing business as a partnership under the name
of Alexander Murphy & Co., imported into New York certain merchandise consisting of women's and children's dress
goods composed of worsted. The collector classified this merchandise and assessed it for duty under paragraph 395 of the
tariff act of October 1, 1890, c. 1244, 26 Stat. 567, at twelve
cents per square yard and fifty per cent ad valorem. The
importers protested, claiming the goods to be dutiable under
paragraph 283 of the tariff act of August 27, 1894, c. 349, 28
Stat. 509, at forty per cent, or fifty per cent ad valorem, according to the value per pound.
The Board of General Appraisers overruled the protest
(G. A. 2769), and the importers carried the matter to the Circuit Court, which reversed the decision of the Board of General Appraisers. .Mu rphy v. United States, 68 Fed. Rep. 908.
On an appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, the decision of the Circuit Court was affirmed.
.Murpky v. United States, 38 U. S. App. 467. The case was
then brought here on certiorari.
It was admitted below "that the classification of the merchandise by the collector was worsted dress goods, at twelve
cents per square yard and fifty per cent ad valorem under
schedule K, paragraph 395 of the tariff act of October 1, 1890."
And "that the merchandise in controversy is worsted dress
goods, made from the fleece of the sheep, which has been combed
and spun into worsted yarn, and is not composed of the hair
of the camel, goat, alpaca or other animal than sheep."
Paragraph 395 of Schedule K of the act of October 1, 1890,
entitled "Wool and Manufactures of Wool," read: "On
women's and children's dress goods, coat linings, Italian cloth,
bunting, and goods of similar description or character composed wholly or in part of wool, worsted, the hair of the camel,
goat, alpaca or other animals, and not specially provided for
in this act, the duty shall be twelve cents per square yard, and
in addition thereto fifty per centum ad valorem: Provided,
That on all such goods weighing over four ounces per square
yard the duty per pound shall be four times the duty imposed

UNITED STATES v. KLUMPP.
Opinion of the Court.

by this act on a pound of unwashed wool of the first class, and
in addition thereto fifty per centum ad valorem."
Paragraph 283 of Schedule K of the act of August 27, 1894,
c. 349, entitled "Wool and Manufactures of Wool," provided:
"On women's and children's dress goods, coat linings, Italian
cloth, bunting or goods of similar description or character, and
on all manufactures, composed wholly or in part of wool,
worsted, the hair of the camel, goat, alpaca or other animals, including such as have india rubber as a component material, and
not specially provided for in this act, valued at not over fifty
cents per pound, forty per centum ad valorem; valued at more
than fifty cents per pound, fifty per centumn ad valorem."
Paragraphs 280 to 286, inclusive, under this schedule, provided for duties on articles made, or composed, "wholly or in
part of wool, worsted or the hair of the camel, goat, alpaca
or other animals," except that paragraph 282, which referred
to blankets, etc., omitted the word "worsted."
Paragraphs 287 to 296, inclusive, related to carpets, mats,
etc., and the concluding paragraph of the schedule read:
"297. The reduction of the rates of duty herein provided for
manufactures of wool shall take effect January first, eighteen
hundred and ninety-five."
Paragraph 685, one of the paragraphs of the free list, was
as follows: "685. All wool of the sheep, hair of the camel,
goat, alpaca and other like animals, and all wool and hair on,
the skin,.noils, yarn waste, card waste, bur waste, slubbing
waste, roving waste, ring waste and all waste, or rags composed wholly or in part of wool, all the foregoing not otherwise herein provided for."
.Mr. Solicitor General for appellant.
- r. Wi. Wickhan Smith for appellees.
was on his brief.

.Mr. Charles Curie

Mr. CHIEF JusTicE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
Women's and children's dress goods, "composed wholly or

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

in part of wool, worsted, the hair of the camel, goat, alpaca
or other animals," were dutiable under paragraph 395 of the
act of October 1, 1890, at twelve cents per square yard and fifty
per cent ad valorem; under paragraph 283 of the act of
August 27, 1894, at forty or fifty per cent ad valorem, according to value. But by paragraph 297, the reduction of the
rates of duty on "manufactures of wool" was not to take
effect until January 1, 1895. And if that paragraph applied
to worsted dress goods for women and children, then the collector was right, and the judgment must be reversed.
Was it intended that the words "manufactures of wool," as
used in this paragraph, should include or exclude worsted
goods?
Worsted goods are made out of wool, and are necessarily
a manufacture of wool. The Century Dictionary defines
"worsted" as a noun: "A variety of woollen yarn or thread,
spun from long-staple wool which has been combed, and in
the spinning is twisted harder than is usual;" and as an
adjective: "Consisting of worsted; made of worsted yarn; as
worsted stockings."
"Worsted is but wool, spun and twisted in a particular
manner," said Mr. Justice Story, in Whiting v. Bancroft, 1
Story, 560. And in Cahn v. Seeberger, 30 Fed. Rep. 425, it
was found by Judge Blodgett that: "Worsted is made by
combing long fibred wools so that the fibres usually lie or are
arranged alongside each other, while wool is treated by carding it so as to interlock the fibres with each other."
As between worsted yarns and woollen yarns the Encyclopedia Britannica says that the fundamental distinction "rests
in the crossing and interlacing of the fibres in preparing
woollen yarn,- an operation confined to this alone among all
textiles, while for worsted yarn the fibres are treated, as in
the case of all other textile materials, by processes designed to
bring them into a smooth, parallel relationship with each
other." Vol. 24, p. 658.
Although through the introduction of improved processes
of manufacture, it gradually became possible to comb shorter
and finer varieties of wool, and thus to manufacture worsted

UNITED STATES v. KLUNPP.
Opinion of the Court.

goods of higher grade and better quality, approximating
worsted to woollen goods, and removing the reason for any
distinction between them in the matter of duties, the tariff
laws prior to May 9, 1890, made a distinction in that respect,
between woollen and worsted goods, resting on the difference
in the process of manufacture; but the raw material was, of
course, always the same, namely, wool.
By the tariff acts of April 27, 1816, c. 107, 3 Stat. 310; of
May 22, 1824, c. 136, 4 Stat. 25; May 19, 1828, c. '55, 4 Stat.
270; July 14, 1832, c. 227, 4: Stat. 583; August 30, 1842,
.c.
270, 5 Stat. 548, worsted stuff goods were recognized as
manufactures of wool.
By the acts of July 30, 1846, c. 74, 9 Stat. 42; March 2, 1861,
12 Stat. 252, lRes. 15; July 14, 1862, c. 163, 12 Stat. 543; June
30, 1864, c. 171, 13 Stat. 202; March 2, 1867, c. 197, 14 Stat.
559; March 3, 1883, c. 121, 22 Stat. 488, "manufactures of
wool not otherwise provided for," were separated from "manufactures of worsteds not otherwise provided for," and distinct
duties levied on each, while from 1861 distinct duties were
levied on articles specifically described, whether manufactured
of wool or worsted.
In Seeberger v. Cahn, 137 U. S_ 95, 97, it was held that cloths
popularly known as diagonals, and in trade as worsteds, were
subject to duty under the act of March 3, 1883, as manufactures of worsted and not as manufactures of wool, the ground
of decision being thus stated by Mr. Justice Gray delivering
the opinion of the court:
"In the interpretation of the customs acts, nothing is better
settled than that words are to receive their commercial meaning; and that when goods of a particular kind, which would
otherwise be comprehended in a class, are subjected to a distinct rate of duty from that imposed upon the class generally,
they are taken out of that class for the purpose of the assessment of duties.
"Of the two successive paragraphs in the customs act of
1883, upon which the parties respectively rely, the first imposes a certain scale of duties on 'all manufactures of wool of
every description, made wholly or in part of wool, not spe-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

cially enumerated or provided for in this act; ' and the second
imposes a lower scale of duties on ' all manufactures of every
description, composed wholly or in part of worsted.'
"Though worsted is doubtless a product of wool, and might
in some aspects be considered a manufacture of wool, yet manufactures of worsted being subjected by the second paragraph
to different duties from those imposed by the first paragraph
on manufactures of wool, it necessarily follows that a manufacture of worsted cannot be considered as a manufacture of
wool, within the meaning of this statute."
This decision was announced November 17, 1890, but the
controversy had been pending for a long time in the courts,
and on May 9, 1890, an act was passed, "providing for the
classification of worsted cloths as woollens," by enacting:
"That the Secretary of the Treasury be, and he hereby is,
authorized and directed to classify as woollen cloths all imports
of worsted cloth, whether known under the name of worsted
cloth or under the name of worsteds or diagonals or otherwise." 26 Stat. 105, c. 200.
And since that date no distinction for customs purposes
between woollens and worsteds has been recognized by Congress.
By the act of October 1, 1890, the same duties were levied
upon worsted and woollen goods. Paragraphs 375 to 387
divided all wools, hair of the camel, goat, alpaca and other
like animals into three classes, and levied certain duties on
each class. Paragraphs 391 to 398 provided for certain duties
on described articles, whether made wholly or in part of
"wool, worsted, the hair of the camel, goat, alpaca or other
animals."
By the act of August 27, 1894, wool was put on the free list
(par. 685), and the paragraphs of the act of October 1, 1890,
classifying wools and levying duties on the different classes,
were omitted. Paragraphs 280 to 286, inclusive, of Schedule
K of this act prescribed duties on certain enumerated articles,
whether composed wholly or in part of wool, worsted, the hair
of the camel, goat, alpaca or other animal.
There was no distinction made by either of these acts be-

UNITED STATES v.

LUMPP.

Opinion of the Court.

tween manufactures of wool and manufactures of worsted for
the purposes of duty, and the word "worsted" seems to have
been used out of abundant caution and as conducive to greater
certainty.
The act of July 2-4, 1897, commonly known as the Dingley
act, omits the repetition of the words " wool, worsted, hair of
the camel, goat, alpaca and other animals," and uses the
single word "wool."
Paragraph 3S3 provides: "Whenever,
in any schedule of this act, the Word ' wool' is used in connection with a manufactured article of which it is a component material, it shall be held to include wool or hair of the
sheep, camel, goat, alpaca or other animal, whether manufactured by the woollen, worsted, felt or any other process."
30 Stat. 151, c. 11.
Manifestly the distinction on which the decision in Seeberger v. Cahn turned was done away with by the acts of
October 1, 1890, and August 27, 1894, as well as by that of
May 9, 1890, and there certainly is no imperative ground for
its reinstatement by technical construction.
The reason for the postponing of the taking effect of the
reduction of duties obviously had nothing to do with the process of manufacture, but related to the material of which the
goods were composed, which material had been relieved from
duty by paragraph 685 of the act.
Congress undoubtedly concluded that the manufacturers of
goods from wool had laid in a large stock of material, which
equitably they should be allowed a reasohable time to work
off, and that there was probably on hand a large stock of
goods, to dispose of which reasonable time should be allowed,
rather than that the large dealers should be induced to bring
in foreign goods at a cost which involved ruinous competition
while at the same time the wool growers ought to have their
original market until they could adjust themselves to the new
condition of things.
The specific rate was compensatory, and, when stricken
out, and the duty on raw material abolished, a postponement
was provided for in order to avoid injustice.
But the reason for postponing the reduction on manufact-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

ures of wool, which, on the face of the act, we think properly
imputable to Congress, is as applicable to worsted goods as
to any other goods fabricated from wool.
It will be perceived that the acts of 1890 and 1894 did not
levy a duty on "worsted dress goods," eo norine, nor on
worsted dress goods by commercial designation, nor on
worsted dress goods as distinguished from woollen dress
goods; but a duty on dress goods, whether made of "wool,
worsted, the hair of the camel, goat, alpaca or other animals." The description is addressed to the quality and material of the goods, namely, women's and children's dress
goods, made of wool, worsted, etc.
The principle then that the special designation of an article
by its commercial meaning should prevail over general terms
used in the same or a later act, has no application.
In Barber v. Schell, 107 U. S. 617, the words "cotton laces,
cotton insertings," etc., used in the act of 1846, were held to
be designations of articles by special description of quality
and material, and the general provision of 1857, transferring
to Schedule 0 "all manufactures composed wholly of cotton,
which are bleached, printed or dyed," whereby a different
duty was imposed on such goods, was held to apply. Mr.
Justice Blatchford said: "The designations qualified by the
word 'cotton' in the act of 1846 are designations of articles
by special description, as contra-distinguished from descriptions by a commercial name or a name of trade. They are
designations of quality and material." Cadwalader v. Zek,
151 U. S.171, 178.
It is argued that the same reasoning which brings worsted
goods within the words "manufactures of wool," would also
compel the inclusion of goods composed of the hair of the
camel and other animals, confessedly not covered by the
phrase.
Doubtless wool considered as the sheep's coat might be said
to be the sheep's hair, and fleeces of the hair of the Angora
goat, the Llama, the Alpaca, and other like animals, might be
called their wool. In the Encyclopeedia Britannica, (9th ed.
vol. 24, p. 653,) under the title of "Wool and Woollen Alanu-

UNITED STATES v. KLUMPP.
Opinion of the Court.

factures," it is said: "Wool is a modified form of hair, distinguished by its slender, soft and wavy or curly structure,
find by the highly imbricated or serrated surface of its filaments. The numerous varieties of the sheep' are the most
characteristic, as they are also by far the most important,
producers of wool; but the sheep is by no means the only
animal which yields wool employed for industrial purposes.
The alpaca and other allied fibres obtained from the alpaca
and its congeners in South America, the mohair yielded by
the Angora goat and the soft, woolly hair of the camel are
all wools of much industrial importance, while the most
costly wool in the world is that yielded by the Cashmere goat
of the Himalayan Mountains. At what point indeed it can
be said that an animal fibre ceases to be hair and becomes
wool it is impossible to determine, because in every characteristic the one class by imperceptible gradations merges into
the other, so that a continuous chain can be formed from the
finest and softest merino to the rigid bristles of the wild boar."
G. A. 2834; Lyon' v. United States, 8 UI. S. App. 409, 413.
But the acts of 1890 and 1894, as well as prior tariff acts,
distinguished the wool of the sheep from the hair of the
camel, goat and other like animals, as raw materials. And
there is nothing in this record from which to conclude that
Congress felt obliged to make concessions by way of alleviating the effect of the act of 1894 on the production of the hair
of the camel, the goat, the alpaca, and so on, in this country,
or on manufactures thereof.
We think that the words "manufactures of wool," in paragraph 297, had relation to the raw material out of which the
articles were made, and that as the material of worsted dress
goods was wool, such-goods fell within the paragraph.
Judgment of te Circuit Court of Appeals reversed; judgment of the Circuit Court also reversed, and the cause
remanded to that court with a direction to affirm the
decision of the Board of General Appraisers.

