HOLDER v. AULTHAN.
Statement of the Case.

HOLDER v. AULTMAN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.
No. 109.

Argued November 8, 9, 189. -Decided

January 10, 1898.

Under a statute of a State, imposing a franchise tax on foreign corporations doing business in the State without having filed articles of association under its laws, and providing that "all contracts made in this State"
after a certain date, "by any corporation which has not first complied
with the provisions of this act, shall be wholly void," a contract of such
a corporation, signed by its local agent and by the other party within the
State, and stipulating that the contract is not valid unless countersigned
by its manager in the State, and approved at its home office in another
State, is not "made in this State," within the meaning of the statute,
even if it is to be performed within the State.

TmIs was an action of assumpsit, brought September 21, 1894,
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Michigan, by Aultman, Miller & Co., a corporation of
the State of Ohio, against William Holder, a citizen of the
State of Michigan, to recover the price of agricultural machines furnished by the plaintiff to the defendant, and sold by
the defendant, under a contract in writing, the material parts
of which were as follows:
"This agreement, made this 20th day of February, 1894,
between Aultman, Miller & Co., a corporation duly incorporated under the laws of the State of Ohio, of Akron, Ohio,
of the first part, and William Holder, of Laingsburgh, county
of Shiawassee, and State of Michigan, of the second part, witnesseth, That the party of the second part is hereby authorized to sell Buckeye mowers, reapers and binders and extra
parts thereof in the following territory, viz., Laingsburgh and
vicinity," and other specified territory in Michigan, "for and
during the season of 1894, on the following terms and conditions, viz.:
"The party of the second part agrees: First. To use all
reasonable diligence in canvassing and supplying said terriVOL. CLXIX-G

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

tory with said machines." Second. "To sell the said machines at the retail list prices authorized by said first party;"
"to grant credit to such persons only as are of well known
responsibility;" "to see that all notes taken for machines
sold are drawn on blanks furnished by the said first party;"
"and, in all cases of 'doubt as to the responsibility of the purchaser, to require a mortgage on property, real or personal;"
and to redeem all notes not accepted by the party of the first
part. Third. To endorse, unless sufficiently secured, "all
notes given by renters and parties owning no real estate."
Fourth. "That all machines and parts of machines, and all
other goods received on commission under this contract, shall
be held by the said second party on special storage and deposit
as the property of the party of the first part until converted
into notes or money," and such notes shall remain the property
of the first party; and, "in all cases where machines are sold
for cash, or part cash and notes, all such cash received shall be
promptly remitted." Fifth. "To see that all machines sold are
properly set up and started;" and "to keep a correct record of
sales." Sixth. To receive all "goods shipped or delivered on
account of said first party;" to pay the freight on them, and
keep them insured; "to keep all unsold goods well housed and
cared for, subject to the order of the party of the first part;"
and to make no charge for handling or storage. Seventh. To
furnish "repairs, free of charge, to customers," only in case of
flaw or defect. Eighth. "To make prompt and accurate reports of machines on hand, as often as requested by the first
party or its general agent; to promptly execute orders for transfer of machines, if any are on hand unsold; and, in case of failure to make such report or transfers, to pay said first party, for
all machines remaining on hand at settlement unsold by reason
of such failure, at the option of said first party." Ninth. "To
sell, or assist in the sale of, no other mowing machines, or combined mowing and reaping machines, or harvesters and binders, in said territory, during the continuance of this contract."
Tenth. ".To sell and deliver all machines set up and used as
samples, or settle for same in cash or approved notes at settlement time." Eleventh. To advertise this agency.

HOLDER v. AULTA-K.
Statement of the Case.

"The party or the first part further agrees with the party
of the second part: First. To furnish to said second party
such machines of the kinds they make as may be wanted to
supply said territory, so long as their stock on hand will enable them to fill the orders. No commission will be allowed
on orders taken and not filled;" "nor shall any commission
whatever be due said second party until a full settlement of
account is made." Second. "To allow said second party
as compensation for receiving, handling, storing, selling, setting up and starting machines, and making collections whenever required," certain specified commissions. Third. "To
furnish the said second party a stock of extra castings and
other repairs," to be sold on commission. Fourth. "To sell
the said second party knives and sickles," and certain other
things, at a discount of fifty per cent. Fifth. "To furnish
said second party blank notes, orders, circulars and posters,
and such other printed documents as they are accustomed to
supply their agents.
It is especially agreed that when sales have not
,oOTICE.been closed by cash or notes on or before delivery, as stated
above, then the party of the first part may send a person to
settle with the purchasers of machines, and the party of the
second part shall pay all the expenses of making such settlement. It is further agreed that Aultman, Miller & Co. shall
not be held liable under any written or printed warranty given
by them on their machines that are allowed to go out without
first having been settled for. No canvassers or expert that
may be sent to aid you shall have any authority to make any
change whatever in our contract with you; and all sales made
by him will be subject to your approval or rejection, as no
allowance will be made to you for loss of interest or reduction
in price on sales made by him; nor will any promise not anthorized in writing by our manager at Lansing, Michigan,
be recognized at settlement."
"In witness whereof, the parties hereunto have set their
hands the day and date above written.
"Au="nfAI,

MILLER

"By D. C. GILL=r.

& Co.,

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

"This contract not valid unless countersigned by our manager at Lansing, Michigan, and approved at Akron, Ohio.
"W

. HOLDER.

"Countersigned, Lansing, Michigan, Feb. 27, 1894.
"1I. H.

WoRTHi,

Manager."

Across the back of the contract were written these words:
"Approved April 29, 1894.

IRA M. MILLOY, Secretary."

The declaration alleged that "on February 27, 1891, at
the said village of Laingsburgh and at the city of "Lansing, in
the Eastern District of Michigan, the said plaintiff, by D. 0.
Gillett and R. H. Worth, its duly authorized agents, entered
into a written contract with the defendant, William Holder,"
above stated; and that "afterwards, to wit, on April 27, 1894,.
the said written contract was approved by the plaintiff at its.
office in the city of Akron, in the State of Ohio, and the same
then and there became and was a binding and valid contract
between the defendant and the plaintiff, according to the
terms thereof, to wit, at the city of Lansing, in the Eastern
District of Michigan;" that the plaintiff faithfully performed
its contract, and in pursuance thereof shipped to the defendant a large number of mowers, reapers and binders, and extra
parts for the same; and the defendant sold them under the,
contract, and became liable to pay the plaintiff the sum of
$5052.56; and had never paid him that sum, or any part
thereof. The declaration, besides a count on the contract,
contained the common counts.
The defendant relied on the statute of Michigan of 1891, c.
182, § 1, as amended by the statute of 1893, c. 79, and copied
in the margin; I and alleged that the contract sued on was
I An act to amend section one of act number one hundred and eightytwo of the public acts of eighteen hundred and ninety-one, entitled "An
act to provide for the payment of a franchise fee by corporations," approved July two, eighteen hundred and ninety-one.
SECTION 1. The People of the State of Michigan enact, that section
one of act number one hundred and eighty-two of the public acts of
eighteen hundred and ninety-one, entitled "An act to provide for the pay-

HOLDER v. AULTHAN.
Statement of the Case.

made and to be performed in the State of Michigan, within
the meaning of the statute; that the plaintiff, being a foreign
,corporation, was at the time of the execution of that contract
,doing business in the State of Michigan, within the meaning
and application of the statut6, and had not complied with its
requirements; and that the contract was therefore absolutely
void and without force as against the defendant.
The parties waived in writing a trial by jury, and submitted the case to the decision of the court, which found the
following facts:
On April 29, 1894, the parties entered into the contract
above stated; and it was executed, accepted and approved,
nent of a franchise fee by corporations," approved July two, eighteen
hundred and ninety-one, be and the same is hereby amended so as to read as
follows:
SEcTIOx
1. The People of the State of Michigan enact, that every cor,poration or association hereafter incorporated or formed by consolidation
o-rotherwise, by or under any general or special law of this State, which is
required by law to file articles of association with the secretary of state,
and every foreign corporation or association which shall hereafter be per,mitted to transact business in this State, which shall not, prior to the
passage of this act, have filed or recorded its articles of association under
the laws of this State and been thereby authorized to do business therein,
-shall pay to the secretary of state a franchise fee of one half of one mill
upon each dollar of the authorized capital stock of such corporation or
association, and a proportionate fee upon any and each subsequent increase
thereof, and that every corporation heretofore organized or doing business
in this State, which shall hereafter increase the amount of its authorized
capital stock, shall pay a franchise fee of one half of one mill upon each
-dollar of such increase of authorized capital stock of such corporation or
association, and a proportionate fee upon any and each subsequent increase
thereof: Provided, that the fee herein provided, except in cases of increase
of capital stock, shall in no case be less than five dollars; and in case any
corporation or association hereafter incorporated under the law of this
State, or foreign corporation authorized to do business in this State, has no
authorized capital stock, then in such case each and every corporation or
association so incorporated or doing business in this State shall pay a
franchise fee of five dollars. All contracts made in this State after the
the first day of January, eighteen hundred and ninety-four, by any corporation which has not first complied with the provisions of this act, shall be
wholly void.
This act is ordered to take immediate effect.
Approved May 13, 1893.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

as set forth therein, and in the indorsement thereon. Its
provisions, so far as the plaintiff is concerned, have been fulfilled; and there is a balance due to the plaintiff under it of
$5052.56. The plaintiff is a corporation organized and existing under the general laws of Ohio, having its corporation
office and its manufactory at Akron in that State; and does
not manufacture any goods in the State of Michigan. It
sells its goods in Michigan by means of local commission
agents, and has a general agent at Lansing in Michigan ; its
commission agents are under contracts with it similar to that
sued on; and all contracts are sent to the plaintiff at Akron,
for approval or rejection, before taking any effect. The
goods manufactured by the plaintiff at its factory in Akron,
and sold by it in Michigan, are shipped from the factory upon
orders received from commission agents and forwarded by the
general agent from Lansing to Akron. Goods are shipped,
either directly to the commission agent, or in bulk to Lansing
or elsewhere in Michigan, and reshipped in smaller lots to the
commission agents. The plaintiff owns a warehouse in Lansing for the transfer of such reshipments, for the temporary
storage of a small stock of extras or repairs, which experience
has shown may be suddenly needed by customers throughout
the State during the harvest season. Some of the commission
agents throughout the State also keep on hand a very small
stock of repairs for the immediate use of their customers.
These are partly commission goods, and partly goods sold
directly to them. Accounts with every commission agent in
Michigan are kept at the plaintiff's office in Akron. The
plaintiff effects settlements with its commission agents by
sending copies of such accounts to its general agent, who goes
over the season's work with each commission agent, collects
the cash and notes taken in payment for machines sold, and
forwards them to the plaintiff at Akron, subject to the plaintiff's approval or rejection of the notes. The notes are filed
and kept by the plaintiff at Akron until just before maturity,
when they are sent to the bank or to express agents for collection and remittance to Akron. The plaintiff has never
filed a copy of its articles of association in the office of the

HOLDER v. AULTMIAN.
Opinion of the Court.

secretary of state or in any other office in Michigan, or paid
any franchise fee to the State of Michigan, or in any way
complied, or attempted to comply, with the statute above
mentioned.
Upon these findings of fact the court made the following
conclusions of law: 1st. The plaintiff's business, as carried on
under and in pursuance of the contract, is an interstate commerce busiiess; and the plaintiff is not subject to the aforesaid statute; and the statute, so far as it applies, or purports
to apply, to foreign corporations like the plaintiff, which are
doing an interstate commerce business, is in conflict with the
provision of the Constitution of the United States authorizing
Congress to regulate interstate commerce. 2d. The contract
was made and executed in the State of Ohio, and does not
provide for the transaction of any business in Michigan other
than an interstate commerce business, and the plaintiff is
therefore within the protection of the Constitution of the
United States. 3d. The plaintiff is entitled to recover the
sum of $5052.56. 68 Fed. Rep. 467.
Judgment was rendered for the plaintiff accordingly; and
the defendant sued out a writ of error from this court, upon
the ground that the case was one in which a law of a State
was claimed to be in contravention of the Constitution of the
United States, within the act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, § 5,
26 Stat. 828.
.Mr. Clark C. lFood for plaintiff in error. .Afr. Frederick
A. Xfaynard, Attorney General of the State of Michigan,
filed a brief on behalf of the same.
fMr. Frederick A. Baker and Mr. Jokn A. Bradley for
defendants in error. Mr. Olin Z. Sadler was on their brief.
MR. JusTicE GRAY, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
This action was brought in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Michigan, by a manufactur-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

ing corporation of the State of Ohio, having its principal
office and its factory at Akron in that State, against one of its
commission agents, a citizen of Michigan, to recover the price
of agricultural machines sold by the defendant in Michigan
under a contract in writing, by which the plaintiff authorized
the defendant to sell, within a certain territory in Michigan,
such machines supplied to him by the plaintiff; and the
defendant agreed to canvass the territory, to sell the machines at retail prices fixed by the plaintiff, to hold the
unsold machines as the plaintiff's property, to keep and
render accounts of sales, and to remit the proceeds to the
plaintiff.
The defendant relied on a statute of Michigan of May 13,
1893, which required every foreign corporation, permitted to
transact business in that State, and not having filed articles
of association under its laws, to pay a franchise tax of half
a mill upon each dollar of its capital stock; and further
provided that "all contracts made in this State after January 1, 1894, by any corporation which has not first complied
with the provisions of this act, shall be wholly void." Michigan Public Acts 1893, c. 79, p. 82.
The Circuit Court, in giving judgment for the plaintiff, held
that the contract was made in the State of Ohio, and that
the statute of Michigan, so far as it applied to the business
carried on by the plaintiff in that State under the contract,
was in conflict with the Constitution of the United States
authorizing Congress to regulate interstate commerce. 68
Fed. Rep. 467.
This was therefore a "case in which the Constitution or
law of a State is claimed to be in contravention of the
Constitution of the United States," and was rightly brought
directly to this court by writ of error under the act of March
3, 1891, c. 517, § 5. 26 Stat. 828. Upon such a writ of error,
differing in these respects from a writ of error to the highest
court of a State, the jurisdiction of this court does not depend
upon the question whether the right claimed under the
Constitution of the United States has been upheld or denied
in the court below; and the jurisdiction of this court is not

HOLDER v. AULT)U.
Opinion of the Court.

limited to the constitutional question, but includes the whole
case. Whitten v. Tomlinson, 160 U. S. 231, 238; Penn Ins. Co.
v. Au8tn, 168 U. S. 685.
But this court has not found it necessary to pass upon
the constitutional question, because it is of opinion that the
-contract is not within the statute set up by the defendant.
By the clear terms of the statute of Michigan, the invalidity of the contract does not depend upon the place where,
-or the time when, it is to be performed, but upon its being
"made in this State after January 1, 18942' A contract
made before that date is valid, although it is to be performed
.afterwards; and a contract made elsewhere than in Michigan
is valid, although it is to be performed in this State.
A contract is made when, and not before, it has been exe,cuted or accepted by both parties, so as to become binding
upon both.
This contract is admitted to have been drawn up at Laings'burgh, in the State of Michigan, where the defendant resided.
It begins by stating that it is "made this 20th day of Febru.ary, 1894, between" the plaintiff and the defendant; and it
-ends with the clause, "In witness whereof, the parties hereunto have set their hands the day and date above written."
'Then follows the signature, "Aultman, Miller & Co., by D. 0.
,Gillett," who may be assumed to have been the plaintiff's
local agent at Laingsburgh. That signature is followed by a
.stipulation, evidently addressed by the plaintiff to the other
party to the contract, in these words: "This contract not
valid unless countersigned by our manager at Lansing,
Michigan, and approved at Akron, Ohio." Then follows the
'signature of the defendant, "William Holder," who thereby
necessarily assents to this stipulation, as well as to the other
terms of the contract. Both parties thus agreed that the
.contract was not to be valid, until countersigned by the
plaintiff's manager at Lansing in Michigan, and also approved
.at Akron in Ohio, the site of the plaintiff's principal office.
It further appears, upon the contract itself, that it was afterwards, on February 27, 1894, countersigned at Lansing, by 'KR.
H. Worth, Manager," and, by an endorsement on the contract,

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

that it was approved at Akron, April 29, 1894, as shown by
the signature of "Ira M. Milloy, Secretary."
The plaintiff, in its declaration, alleged that on February
27, 1894, at Laingsburgh and Lansing, the plaintiff "by D. C.
Gillett and R. H. Worth, its duly authorized agents, entered
into a written contract with the defendant." The date on
which the plaintiff "entered into" the contract with the defendant is thus alleged to have been, not February 20, 1894,
mentioned at the beginning of the contract as the day on
which it was made, and which may have been the day on
which it was signed at Laingsburgh, by Gillett in behalf of the
plaintiff, and by the defendant in person; but February 27,
1894, the day on which it was countersigned at Lansing by
Worth, the plaintiff's manager. The plaintiff thus assumed
that the contract did not exist as a contract before it was
countersigned by the plaintiff's manager at Lansing; and
there is no more reason for assuming that it existed as a contract before it was approved at the plaintiff's principal office
at Akron; for the stipulation above quoted required both
countersigning by the manager at Lansing, and approval at
Akron, to make it a valid contract. Accordingly, the declaration further alleged that "afterwards, to wit, on April
29, 1894, the said written contract was approved by the
plaintiff at its office in the city of Akron, and the same then
and there was and became a binding and valid contract between the defendant and the plaintiff, according to the terms
thereof." The words "to wit, at the city of Lansing, in the
Eastern District of Michigan," would seem to have been added
by way of formal venue only, in accordance with the ancient
mode of pleading in suing upon a transaction which took
place abroad. As Lord Mansfield said, "no judge ever
thought that, when the declaration said in Fort St. George,
viz. in Cheapside, that the plaintiff meant it was in Cheapside." .Mosty v. Fabrigas, Cowper, 161, 177. See also
.Mc_enna v. Fisk, 1 How. 241, 248.
The Circuit Court found, as facts, that the parties entered
into the contract on April 29, 1894, which was the date of
its approval at the plaintiff's home office in Ohio; and that

HOLDER v. AULTiA T.
Opinion of the Court.

it was executed, accepted and approved, as set forth therein,
and in the endorsement thereon.
Whether, therefore, we look to the contract itself, to the
plaintiff's declaration, or to the findings of fact by the court,
it clearly appears that the contract, when, after being drawn
up in writing and signed by the plaintiff's local agent, it was
tendered to the defendant and assented to and signed by him
in Michigan, contained a distinct stipulation that it was not
valid unless, not only countersigned by the plaintiff's manager
in Michigan, but also approved at the plaintiff's principal
office in Ohio; and that it was on April 29, 1894, and at
Akron in the State of Ohio, that the contract was approved
by the plaintiff's secretary at its principal office, and then and
there, for the first time, became a valid and binding contract
between the parties. It cannot therefore be considered as
"made," within the meaning of the statute in question, at
any earlier time, or other place.
The approval at the plaintiff's home office was not a ratification by the plaintiff of an unauthorized act of one of its
agents; for each of its agents, Gillett in first signing the contract, and Worth in countersigning it, appears to have acted
within the strict limits of his authority. But the final approval by the plaintiff itself was an act which, according
to the express stipulation of the parties, and in the contemplation of every person who affixed his signature to the
paper, was a necessary step to complete the execution of the
instrument by the plaintiff, and to make it a valid and binding
contract between the parties.
The opinion of the Supreme Court of the State of Michigan
•in S9eanans v. Temple Co., cited at the bar, contains nothing
inconsistent with this conclusion. It was there held that a
contract of insurance, made in another State by a corporation
thereof, upon an application procured through its agents in
Michigan upon property in Michigan, could not be sued on
in the courts of Michigan, because of provisions of earlier
statutes of Michigan, making it unlawful for any foreign insurance company to transact any business of insurance in the
State, and for any person to aid in any way in procuring a

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Syllabus.

,policy of insurance by a foreign corporation upon property in
the State. Howell's Statutes, §§ 4331, 4354, 8136. And the
,court said: "If it be conceded that the contract was made in
Wisconsin, and that the premiums and loss, if any, are payable
there, it is as much in contravention of the policy of this State
.as though it had been made and was to be performed here.
It cannot be supposed that the statutes cited were intended
merely to prevent the act of making the contract in this

,State."

105 Michigan, 400, 404.

The statute now before this court contains no such provisions as were contained in the statutes in question in that
-case; but it simply invalidates "contracts made in this State"
by a foreign corporation which has not filed its articles of as-sociation in Michigan and paid the franchise tax imposed by

this statute.
Judgment affirmed.

POWERS v. CHESAPEAKE AND OHIO RAILWAY
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE

DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.
No. 144. Argued December 6, 7, 189. -Decided

January 10, 1898.

.A judgment of the Circuit Court of the United States, against a party con-

tending that that court has no jurisdiction because the case has not been
duly removed from a state court, may be reviewed as to the question of
jurisdiction by this court upon writ of error directly to that court under
the act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, § 5.
.An order of the Circuit Court of the United States, remanding a case to a
state court, is not reviewable by this court.
-An action brought in a state court, which, by reason of joinder as defendants of citizens of the same State as the plaintiff, is not a removable one
under the act of Congress until after the time prescribed by statute or
rule of court of the State for answering the declaration, may, upon a
subsequent discontinuance in that court by the plaintiff against those
defendants, making the action for the first time a removable one by
reason of diverse citizenship of the parties, be removed into the Circuit
,Court of the United States by the defendant upon a petition filed immedi-

