OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

UNITED STATES v. PASSAVANT.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 129. Argued December 1, 189T. - Decided January 3, 1S98.

In proceedings brought before the board of general appraisers by protests
under ยง 14 of the Customs Administrative Act of June 10, 1890, c. 407, 26
Stat. 131, to review decisions of a collector of customs upon entries, the
board has jurisdiction to inquire into and impeach the dutiable valuation
reported to the collector by the appraiser upon which the collector assessed the rate of duty to which the merchandise was subject.
The" German duty," which is a tax imposed by the German Government on
merchandise when sold by manufacturers for consumption or sale in
the markets of Germany, but is remitted by that Government when the
goods are purchased in bond or consigned while in bond for exportation
to a foreign country, was lawfully included by the appraiser in his estimate of the dutiable value of the importation in question in this case.

THIS case came to this court on the following certificate

from the United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Second Circuit:
"A judgment or decree of the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Southern District of New York having been
made and entered on the 30th day of January, 1895, by which
it was ordered, adjudged and decreed that there is no error in
certain proceedings before the board of United States general
appraisers in this cause, and that their decision therein be,
and the same hereby is, in all things affirmed; and an appeal
having been taken from said judgment or decree to this court
by the above-named appellants, and the cause having come on
for hearing and argument in this court, certain questions of
law arose concerning which this court desires the instructions of the Supreme Court of the United States for the
proper decision of said cause.
"The facts from which said questions arise are herewith
submitted and certified as follows:
"1. Certain merchandise, consisting of cotton velvets, was
imported from the empire of Gelmany into the port of New

UNITED STATES v. PASSAVANT.
Statement of the Case.

York by the appellees in various steamers between May 22,
1891, and March 13, 1892, and was entered at the custom
house and appraised by the appraiser.
"2. The merchandise was originally imported into Germany in the gray, and was subjected to processes of dyeing
and finishing, and was put in bond in that country.
"3. The collector classified the merchandise for duty under
paragraph 350 of the tariff act of October 1, 1890, at 20 per
centum ad valorem and 14 cents per square yard, and assessed
the said rates of duty upon the dutiable value of the merchandise decided by the appraiser and reported by him to the collector.
"4. The merchandise was of a description provided for eo
nomine in said paragraph 350, and was properly classified
for duty under that section.
"5. The invoices stated certain prices as the net invoice
value of this merchandise. The invoices stated also certain
additional sums, under the heading ' German duty.'
"6. This German duty is a tax which is imposed by the
German Government on the merchandise when it is sold by
the manufacturers thereof for consumption or sale in the
markets of Germany, but when the merchandise is purchased
in bond, or consigned while in bond, for exportation to a
foreign country, this duty is remitted by the German Government, and is called ' bonification of tax,' as distinguished from
being refunded as a rebate.
"7. This German duty or tax is the amount of the duty
levied by the German tariff upon the goods when consumed
in Germany. It is collected when the finished product goes
into consumption in Germany, but is remitted when the finished product is sold in bond for exportation.
"8. The merchandise can be purchased in bond for exportation in the principal markets of Germany at the net invoice
prices and without paying the-so-called German duty. The.
merchandise involved in this action was so purchased for
exportation.
"9. In estimating and appraising the actual market value
and wholesale price of such merchandise at the time of exVOL. cLxIx-2

OCTOBER TEIM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

portation to the United States in the principal markets of the
country from whence imported, the appraiser decided that
the dutiable value of such merchandise equalled the sum of
the net invoice value and the German duty added together,
and reported to the collector this decision as to the dutiable
value of the merchandise appraised.
"10. In estimating this dutiable value the local appraiser
added as an element of dutiable value to the net invoice value
these amounts specified in the invoices and entries under the
name of 'German duty.' Such amounts have been included
by the importers in their entries under duress, to avoid threatened penalties under the law.
"11. The importers did not call for any reappraisement of
the merchandise, but within ten days after the liquidation
by the collector of each entry, and the assessment by him of
the rates of duty aforesaid upon the dutiable valuation so reported to him by the appraiser, filed protests under section
14 of the act of June 10, 1890, against the decisions of the
collector, of which the following protest is one, to which the
others are similar:
[Here followed the protest.]
"12. The board of United States general appraisers, acting upon said protests, reversed the decisions of the collector
on the ground that the so-called German duty was not a lawful element of dutiable value.
"13. Thereupon the collector applied to the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Southern District of New York
by petition praying for review of said decision by the board,
pursuant to section 15 of the act of June 10, 1890, and the
said Circuit Court upon said petition ordered the board of
United States general appraisers to return to the Circuit Court
the record and the evidence taken by them, together with a
certified statement of the facts involved in the case and their
decision thereon, and the said board of general appraisers
thereafter made such return; and the Circuit Court affirmed
the decision of the board as aforesaid.
"14. It is admitted that Frederick S. Passavant, Karl
Kotzenberg, William Sandhagen, Heinrich Meyer, Arthur W.

UNITED STATES v. PASSAVANT.

19

Opinion of the Court.

Watson and Oscar Passavant, the importers, are the persons
composing the firm of Passavant & Company.
"Upon the foregoing facts this court,. for the proper decision of said cause, desires instruction upon the questions of
law following:
"(1) In proceedings brought before the board of general
appraisers by protests, under section fourteen (14) of the act of
June 10, 1890, to review the collector's decisions upon the
entries in this case, had the board jurisdiction to inquire into
and impeach the dutiable valuation so reported to the collector
by the appraiser, as above stated, and upon which the collector
assessed the rate of duty to which the merchandise was lawfully subject?
"(2) If the first question is answered in the affirmative,
was the ' German duty' lawfully included by the appraiser in
his estimate of dutiable value?"
Itr. Solicitor General for the United States.
Hr. Edwin B. Smith for Passavant.
MR. CmEF JusTIoE FuLLFn, after stating the case as above,
delivered the opinion of the court.

The thirteenth section of the Customs Administrative Act
of June 10, 1890, c. 407, 26 Stat. 131, relates solely to the
appraisement of imported merchandise, and declares that the
decision of the board of general appraisers, when invoked as
provided, "shall be final and conclusive as to the dutiable
value of such merchandise," and directs the collector to ascertain, fix and liquidate, the rate and amount of duties to be
paid on such merchandise, and the dutiable costs and charges
thereon.
Section 14 provides that the decision of the collector as to
the "rate and amount of duties, . . . including all dutiable costs and charges, and as to all fees. and exactions of
whatever character, except duties on tonnage, shall be final
and conclusive," unless the importer protests and appeals to,

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

the board of general appraisers. This section clearly allows
and provides for an appeal by the importer from the decision
of the collector, as to both rate and amount of duties, as well
as dutiable costs and charges, and as to all fees and exactions.
By section 15 it is provided that "if the importer,
or the collector
.
shall be dissatisfied with the decision
of the board of general appraisers, as provided for in seclion
14 of this act, as to the construction of the law and the facts
respecting the classification of such merchandise and the rate
of duty imposed thereon under such classification, they or
either of them, may
.
.
apply to the Circuit Court
. . .for review of the questions of law and fact involved
in such decision."
In Utited States v. .lingenberg, 153 U. S. 93, 102, it was
said by Mfr. Justice Jackson, speaking for the court: "The
right of review by the Circuit Court is coextensive with the
right of appeal to the board, as to all matters except
the dutiable value of the imported merchandise, as to which
the decision of the board of general appraisers is by section
13 made conclusive. Now, by section 14 of the act, if the
decision of the collector imposes an excessive amount of
duties, under an improper construction of the law, the importer may take an appeal to the board of general appraisers,
whose decision on such questions is not made conclusive as it
is in respect of the dutiable value of the merchandise, and not
being conclusive, it is subject to review under the express provisions of section 15.'
The purpose of section 13 is to afford the importer or collector the right to call for a reappraisement by a general
appraiser or a board of general appraisers, to review the
decision of the local appraiser or a general appraiser as to the
correct amount of the dutiable value of the merchandise, and
is distinct and separate from the remedy by protest.
Under section 7 the collector is to determine for himself the
question of what is the invoice value of the goods, and, in
doing this, he may add such charges as he considers to be
dutiable, but his decision in this respect is not in the nature
of an appraisement, and may be attacked by protest. And

UNITED STATES v. PASSAVANT.
Opinion of the Court.

while the general rule is that the valuation is conclusive upon
all parties, nevertheless the appraisement is subject to be
impeached where the appraiser or collector has proceeded on
a wrong principle contrary to law or has transcended the
powers conferred by statute. Oberteufer v. Robertson, 116
U. S. 499; Badger v. Gusimano, 130 U. S. 39; -Robertsonv.
IranTo Brothers Company, 132 U. S. 17 ; Erhardt v. Schroeder, 155 U. S. 124; ..Auser v. -lagone, 155 U. S. 240.
These decisions were made under prior similar legislation
as to the finality of the appraisement, and when an action
against the collector was provided by section 3011 of the
Revised Statutes as the remedy for an illegal exaction of
duties. Section 3011 was repealed by the act of June 10,
1890, and in Schoenfeld v. Hendricks, 152 U. S. 691, it was
held that such an action could not be maintained, as it was
not authorized by statute, and would not lie at common law
because the money was required to be paid into the Treasury
by section 3010 ; so that the importers were remitted to the
remedies provided in the latter act. Whether the dutiable
value in this case was erroneously increased by the unauthorized addition of an independent item to the market value, as
asserted by the importers, was a question of law, and properly
carried to the board of general appraisers by protest and
appeal.
We think that section 14 furnishes the means of redress for
illegal action, and that the board of general appraisers has the
same power under this section to inquire into the legality of
an assessment as it has under section 13 to see whether or not
the valuation is excessive or insufficient through an error of
judgment.
The first question must, therefore, be answered 'in the
affirmative.
By section 19 of the act it is provided "that whenever imported merchandise is subject to an ad valorem rate of duty,
or to a duty based upon or regulated in any manner by the
value thereof, the duty shall be assessed upon the actual
market value or wholesale price of such merchandise as
bought and sold in usual wholesale quantities, at the time of

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

exportation to the United States, in the principal markets of
the country from whence imported, and in the condition in
which such merchandise is there bought and sold for exportation to the United States, or consigned to the United States
for sale, including the value of all cartons, cases, crates, boxes,
sacks and coverings of any kind, and all other costs, charges
and expenses incident to placing the merchandise in condition,
packed ready for shipment to the United States, .
By section 10 it is made the duty of the appraisers "by all
reasonable ways and means in his or their power to ascertain,
estimate and appraise (any invoice or affidavit thereto or
statement of cost or of cost of production to the contrary notwithstanding) the actual market value and wholesale price of
the merchandise at the time of exportation to the United
States, in the principal markets of the country whence the
same has been imported, and the number of yards, parcels or
quantities, and actual market value or wholesale price of every
of them, as the case may require."
Was the action of the appraiser lawful in treating the socalled -German duty as an element of value in determining
the actual market value or wholesale price of these cotton velvets, 'at the time of exportation, in the principal markets of
Germany?
What was to be ascertained was the actual market value or
wholesale price of the merchandise as bought and sold in usual
wholesale quantities at the time of exportation, in the principal markets of the country from whence imported. This
market value or price was the price in Germany and not the
price after leaving that country, and the act does not contemplate two prices or two market values.
The certificate of facts states that the German duty is imposed on merchandise when "sold by the manufacturers
thereof for consumption or sale in the markets of Germany;"
and "is collected when the finished product goes into consumption in Germany." As the tax accrues when the
manufacturer sells, his wholesale price includes it, and the
purchaser who buys these cotton velvets in wholesale quantities in the German markets pays a price covering the*tax,

UNITED STATES v. PASSAVANT.
Opinion of the Court.

and that is the price for the merchandise when bought and
sold in those markets.
Doubtless, to encourage exportation and the introduction of
German goods into other markets, the German Government
could remit or refund the tax, pay a bonus, or allow a drawback.
And it is found that in respect of these goods when "purchased in bond, or consigned while in bond, for exportation to
a foreign country, this duty is remitted by the German Government, and is called 'bonification of tax,' as distinguished
from being refunded as a rebate." The use of the word
"bonification" does not change the character of this remission. It is a special advantage extended by government in
aid of manufactures and trade, having the same effect as a
bonus or drawback. To use one of the definitions of drawback,
it is "a device resorted to for enabling a commodity affected
by taxes to be exported and sold in the foreign market on the
same terms as if it had not been taxed at all."
But the laws of this country in the assessment of duties
,proceed upon the market value in the exporting country and
not upon that market value less such remission or amelioration
as that country chooses to allow in accordance with its own
views of public policy.
.-3user v. .agone, 155 U. S. 240, is quite in point. In that
case the appraisement was attacked on the ground that certain items or elements of value had been illegally added to
and included in the dutiable value. The imported goods
were cotton embroideries, The cloth was purchased in the
gray by the importers at Manchester; sent to St. Gall, Switzerland, where the embroideries were finished; and thence
exported to the United States. The importers owned the
plant at St. Gall. The entered value of the goods was raised
by the appraisers, and the importers protested for the reasons
that commissions and non-dutiable charges had been illegally
included in the market value; that the goods should have
been appraised at their actual market value when in the gray,
adding the cost of finishing and laundering them; and on
other grounds; the protest being particularly directed to the

OCTOBER TERI,

1897.

Opinion of the Court.

alleged illegality of the valuation because one of the constituent elements of the value as found was illegally included.
The appraisement was held conclusive in the absence of fraud,
and this court, among other things, said:
"The question was not whether through the special advantages which Muser Brothers enjoyed, the actual cost to them
may have been less than what was decided to be the actual
dutiable value of their goods, for the latter was determined
by the general market value and wholesale price of all goods
of the same description.
"The issue made by the protest was that the valuation was
illegal because including certain specified incidental expenses,
(one or more of them,) as for designs, salary of buyer, clerk
hire, rent, interest and percentage on aggregate cost. Upon
the theory of an ascertainable market value at St. Gall, these
were matters to be considered and in a sense included, but
not in the sense of substantive items independent of market
value, added thereto to make dutiable value. . . . The
course of business at St. Gall in respect of these embroideries
was peculiar, and to reach a result, in estimating the value,
required the consideration of many elements making up the
amount which actually represented the pecuniary basis of
transactions. How these various elements impressed the
general appraiser, and what grounds influenced or controlled
his mental processes, were matters in respect of which he
could not be interrogated, since his decision, when approved
by the collector, was final and could not be reviewed and the
verdict of a jury substituted. . . . The adjudication was of
true market value, and did not consist in taking market value
and adding the cost and charges specified in section 2907 in
order to get at dutiable value."
United States v. Eenworthy,
28 U. S. App. 450.
As the question in this case was what was the general
market value and wholesale price of cotton velvets, as bought
and sold in the principal markets of Germany, the fact that
the German duty was not in fact paid on such goods when
exported is immaterial. Exoneration from its payment was
a mere special advantage extended by the German Govern-

UNITED STATES v. PASSAYANT.
Dissenting Opinion: Brown, Peckham, JJ.

ment, as we have said, in promotion of manufactures and
commerce. The appraiser found, as matter of fact, that
the market value in Germany was equal to the invoice price
plus the home duty, but he did not therefore include that item
as a substantive item independent of the market value, and
add it thereto to make dutiable value, though in ascertaining
the market value in Germaniy he properly recognized the fact
that that duty formed part of the purchase price in the markets of that country.
The second question must also be answered in' the affirmative.
The answers indicated above will be so certiied.
. JusTion B~owN, with whom concurred MR. JusTicE
PEcKHAm, dissenting.
M,

I concur in the opinion of the court that the first question
requires an affirmative answer, but I think that the second
question should be answered in the negative. In estimating
the dutiable value of goods the collector added to the net invoice value what is known as the German duty, which was
never paid, and which formed no part of the "market value
or wholesale price" of these goods. It does not appear what
proportion of this class of goods was imported'into Germany
for exportation, as distinguished from those imported for consumption, but it clearly appears that there were two entirely
distinct and separate prices: one of which was paid for the
goods for exportation, and the other for consumption. It
seems a great hardship that the defendants, Passavant &
Company, should be charged with a price which they did not
pay and which was no part of the value of the goods as they
were purchased by them in Germany. If there be, in fact, two
wholesale prices for these goods in the same markets, I know
of no reason why the collector should not recognize this fact
and charge the importer with that one of the wholesale prices
which he actually paid, and for which others under the same
circumstances could obtain the goods.
The construction given to the statute by the court is unneces-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Syllabus.

Sary, and the effect is to increase the cost of the article to
the consumer by adding to the price the amount of a tax in
fact not paid by the importer. For aught that appears in this
record, the sales for exportation may have been ten times as
great as those for domestic consumption, and we do not understand why the prices realized in the latter sales should be arbitrarily selected by the Government as the actual market value
or wholesale price of the articles.

HETZEL v. BALTIMORE & OHIO RAILROAD
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUITBIA.
No. 110. Argued November 9, 189T. -Decided

January 3, 1898.

This was an action to recover damages for injury done to certain land
in the city of Washington by reason of the illegal occupation by a railroad company of the street on which the land abutted. The land constituted original lot one in square 630, and long prior to the action it had
been subdivided between the owners, and a plat thereof recorded. In
the partition it was provided that the alleys marked on the plat were
exclusively for the sole benefit and use of the sub-lots, should be private
and under the control of all owners of property thereon, and that, except
as provided, could not be closed unless by common consent. Before
the action was brought the plaintiff had becbme the owner of the fee of
all the sub-lots constituting original lot one. Reid,
(1) If the plaintiff did not own all of original lot one, she was entitled to
recover damages for any injury done to such part of it as she did
own;

(2) The plaintiff, being the owner of all the sub-lots, was entitled, under
the deed, to close the alleys altogether; and therefore it was error
to instruct the jury that she could not have conveyed a good title
to the-land marked on the plat as alleys;
(3) The plaintiff was entitled to recover such damages as were equivalent to or would fairly compensate her for the injury done to her
land by the defendant. Absolute certainty as to damages in such
cases is impossible. All that the law requires is that such damages
be allowed as, in the judgment of fair men, directly and naturally
resulted from the injury for which suit is brought. What the
plaintiff was entitled to was reasonable compensation for the
wrongs done to her.

