MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. v. KIRCHOFF.

103

Syllabus.

impair its right to insist that the case had been lawfully
removed into the Circuit Court of the United States. The
defendant, notwithstanding its objection, duly saved upon the
record, to the jurisdiction of the state court, having been
forced to a hearing in that court, is entitled to have the error
in this respect corrected in any court having jurisdiction for
the purpose. Removal Cases, 100 U. S. 457, 475; Edringto
v. Je7erson , 111 U. S. 770, 774.
Judgment affiinmed.

UNION MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY v.
KIRCHOFF.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
No. 155. Argued December 16, 1', 1S97. -Decided

January 10, 1895.

The defendant in error filed a bill against the plaintiff in error in a state
court in Illinois to compel the performance of a contract to convey to
her land in that State. The case proceeded to judgment in plaintiff's
favor in the Supreme Court of the State, but was remanded with directions to take an account for the purpose of ascertaining for how much
payment should be directed. A writ of error, sued out from this court
to review that judgment was dismissed here on the ground that the judgment was not final. It 4oes not appear that any right or title had been
specially set up or claimed under any statute of, or authority exercised
under, the United States in the courts below, or in the Supreme Court of
Illinois, prior to such judgment of that Court. It appeared on the second
hearing that prior to September 10, 1884, the United States had seized
the property for revenue taxes due from a firm then occupying it as adistillery, the defendant in error being in no way connected with the firm,
that the property was sold, the Government bidding it in and taking a
deed for it, and that the Government conveyed to the plaintiff in error.
In the account stated the defendant in error was required to repay the
amount so paid with interest. It also appeared that the plaintiff in error,
after the case went back, moved to amend its answer by setting up that
title, as a right and title acquired and claimed under the Constitution,
statutes and authority of the United States, which motion was refused,
and the trial court disposed of the case on other grounds. In the Appellate Court and in the Supreme Court the plaintiff in error contended that
there was error in refusing its motion; but the Appellate Court held, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.
its decision was sustained by the Supreme Court, that it was bound by
the first decision, and that error could not be assigned, on the second
appeal, for any cause existing at the time of the prior judgment. In this
court it was contended that, at the second trial it appeared that plaintiff
in error claimed to hold an absolute title to the lots in question by virtue
of the foreclosure proceedings and of the master's deed obtained thereunder, and hencethat the title was claimed under an authority exercised
under the United States; that a Federal question was thereby raised on
the record; that the decision of the case necessarily involved passing on
the claim of title; that the opinion of the Supreme Court of Illinois
showed that it was passed upon; and that the necessary effect of the decree and judgment of the state court was against the right and title of
defendant sufficiently claimed under Federal authority. Held, that the
point thus raised was certainly embraced by the first judgment, and that
this court cannot revise the second judgment on the ground that the
plaintiff in error was thereby denied any right, properly claimed, in apt
time, in accordance with Rev. Stat. ยง 709.
Oxley Stave Company v. Butler County, 166 U. S. 648, cited, quoted from
and approved to the point that the words "specially set up or claimed,"
in Rev. Stat. ยง 709, imply that if a party in a suit in a state court intends
to invoke for the protection of his rights the Constitution of the United
States, or some treaty, statute, commission or iuthority of the United
States, he must so declare; and unless he does so declare" specially," that
is, unmistakably, this court is without authority to reexamine the final
judgment of the state court.

Tnis was a bill filed by Elizabeth Kirchoff in the Circuit
Court of Cook County, Illinois, against the Union Mutual Life
Insurance Company, to compel a conveyance of two certain
lots in accordance with an agreement between the company and
herself on payment of the amount due thereunder as provided
for. The Circuit Court dismissed the bill on hearing, and
the cause, after an ineffectual appeal directly to the state
Supreme Court, 128 Illinois, 199, was carried to the Appellate
Court, which reversed the decree of the Circuit Court, and
remanded the cause with directions that an account be taken,
and that, when the amount due the company was ascertained,
a decree be entered that on payment of such amount, with
interest, the company should convey to Mrs. Kirchoff. 33
IlL, App. 607. From this judgment the Insurance Company
prosecuted an appeal to the Supreme Court, and the judgment
was affirmed. 133 Illinois, 368. To review this judgment a
writ of error was sued out from this court, but was dismissed

MUTUAL LIFE INSURANTCE CO. v. KIRCHOFF.

105

Statement of the Case.

on the ground that the judgment of the Supreme Court was
not final. 160 U. S. 374.
The case had, in the meantime, gone back to the Circuit
Court, an accounting had been had, and a decree had been
entered settling the accounts between the parties, and ordering the Insurance Company to convey the property in question
-on payment of the amount found due. From this decree the
Insurance Company appealed to the Appellate Court; the decree of the Circuit Court was affirmed, 51 Ill. App. 67; and this
second judgment of the Appellate Court was affirmed by the
Supreme Court. 149 Illinois, 536. To review the latter judgment the Insurance Company prosecuted this writ of error.
The facts as found by the state courts were substantially
these: In May, 1871, the Union Mutual Life Insurance Coinpany loaned $60,000 to Elizabeth Kirchoff, her husband,
Julius Kirchoff, and her mother, Angela Diversey, upon their
judgment note, secured by trust deed, conveying many parcels
-ofland belonging to them in severalty, among which were the
lots in question, which lots belonged to Elizabeth Kirchoff.
Default having been made in the payment of interest and
taxes, judgment was taken against Mrs. Diversey, and later a
bill was filed by the Insurance Company in the Circuit Court
-of the United. States to foreclose the trust deed. The bill in
.addition sought to cure a misdescription of the property belonging to Mrs. Diversey, who filed an answer denying the
Tight of the company to correct the misdescription, and averring that the note and mortgage were procured from her by
misrepresentation. While this bill was pending an agreement
was reached by the parties, pursuant to which the company released to Mrs. Diversey its claim upon forty acres of the land
belonging to her, and she executed to them a warranty deed
for the remainder, while Mrs. Kirchoff and her husband executed a quitclaim deed of all the property belonging to them
and included in the trust deed, it being agreed as part of the
transaction that Mrs. Kirchoff might purchase from the company the two lots above named for $10,000, one thousand
dollars in cash and nine thousand dollars in annual payments,
for which Mrs. Kirchoff was to execute her notes, extending

OCTOBER TERMV, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

over a period of nine years, bearing interest at six per cent,.
and secured by mortgage upon the two lots. But as there
was an intervening claim on one of the lots groWing out of
a sheriff's deed in pursuance of a sale on a judgment against
Mrs. Kirchoff, rendered subsequently to the original trust
deed but prior to the deed from Kirchoff and wife to the
company, it was agreed that the foreclosure proceedings.
should continue to be prosecuted; that as soon as the company got a deed from the master it would convey to Mrs.
Kirchoff and take the mortgage from her, and the company
would thus obtain and convey clear title, and the mortgage
back would be a first lien.
No defence was made to the foreclosure; the case went ta
decree and sale; and a master's deed was issued to the Insurance Company.
During the prosecution of the foreclosure proceedings a
receiver had been appointed of all the property, and about
nine months after the confirmation of the report of sale the
receiver filed a petition, stating that Julius Kirchoff was in
possession of the premises and refused to pay rent therefor,
and asking for a writ of assistance to put the receiver in possession, to which Julius Kirchoff filed an answer setting up
the agreement and objecting to the issue of the writ lest his
rights be prejudiced; but the writ was nevertheless issued.
It appeared on the second hearing that prior to September
10, 1884, the United States bad seized the property for certain
revenue taxes due from a firm then occupying it as a distillery,
Mrs. Kirchoff being in no way connected with the firm; that
the property was sold, the Government bidding it in and
taking a deed for it; and that the Government conveyed to
the Insurance Company. In the account stated M rs. Kirchoff
was required to repay the amount the Insurance Company
paid the Government, with interest.
The Supreme Court of Illinois held, on the second appeal,
on the authority of -Mansfield v. Excelsior Befining Co., 135
U. S. 326, that the United States took no title by its deed
as against Mrs. Kirchoff; and, further, that the Insurance
Company could not set up any right under the deed from the

MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. v. KIRCHOFF.

107

Opinion of the Court.

Government, because of its acquisition long prior to the submission of the case upon the first appeal. No question was
raised in this court in respect of this transaction.
Mr. Parmnalee Prentice for plaintiff in error. Xir. Frank"
L. Wean and Mr. Josiah H. Drummond were on his brief.
Mr. William S. Harbertfor defendant in error. 21'r. George
2. Daley and Mr. 1'a W. Buell were on'his brief.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER, after making the foregoing
statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
When this case was before us on the prior writ of error we
were obliged to dismiss the writ because the judgment sought
to be reviewed was not final. Union Aiut. -Life Ins. Go. v.
Kirchoff, 160 U. S. 374. And the question whether, had
this been otherwise, the jurisdiction could have been maintained, was necessarily not considered. That inquiry, however, now meets us on the threshold, as in order to invoke
our jurisdiction on the ground of the denial of a title or right
claimed under the Constitution, or any treaty or statute of, or
commission held or authority exercised under, the United
States, such title or right must be specially set up or claimed
at the proper time and in the proper way.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Illinois, when the
case was first before it, 133 Illinois, 068, established the.agreement between Mrs. Kirchoff and the Insurance Company as
claimed by her, and determined that she was entitled to the
relief she sought by reason thereof, and the cause was remanded for the purposes of an accounting merely. And although the fact that the case was sent back for further
proceedings deprived the judgment of that finality deemed
essential to the issue of a writ of error from this court, yet it
does not follow that the prior determination on the merits can
be overhauled on the ground of the existence of a Federal
question which was not raised when that determination was
arrived at.

OCTOBER TERMTYI, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

As observed by the Supreme Court when the case was a
second time before that tribunal, 149 Illinois, 536, 542: "Noth- ing is better settled than that where a cause has been reviewed
by this court, and remanded with directions as to the decree
to be entered, a party, on a subsequent appeal, cannot assign
for error any cause that accrued or existed prior to the judgment of this court. All errors not assigned will be considered
as waived, and cannot afterwards be urged. Book v. Riche,on, 115 Illinois, 431; VFillage of Bi'ooklyn v. Orthwein, 140
Illinois, 620, and cases cited."
The record does not disclose that any right or title was
specially set up or claimed under any statute of, or authority exercised under, the United States in the courts below
,or in the Supreme Court of Illinois prior to the decision
-of the latter court on the first appeal.
The original bill after setting up the agreement to the
effect, among other things, that the title was to be perfected
in the company by the foreclosure proceedings, as well as by
complainant's deed of release and quitclaim, prayed that
the company might be compelled to specifically perform the
agreement and convey the lots to her on performance on
her part. To this defendant filed a demurrer, assigning as
cause, that the bill did not show a contract enforceable either
-at law or in equity. The demurrer was overruled and
,defendant answered, denying the averments of the bill,
pleading the statute of frauds, and asking "the same right
by its answer as if it had pleaded or demurred to said bill
of complaint." The bill was subsequently amended, and
prayed that complainant might be allowed "to redeem said
premises according to the terms of said agreement; that said
defendant may be compelled by the decree of this court to
perform the said agreement with your oratrix and convey
to her the said two lots of lands hereinbefore specifically
described, according to the terms thereof, as before stated;"
and for an accounting.
When from the judgment of the Appellate Court reversing
the Circuit Court and directing the -entry of a decree in
complainant's favor on payment of the amount due from

MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. v. KIRCHOFF.

109

Opinion of the Court.

her to the company as ascertained on an accounting, the
first appeal was taken to the Supreme Court, the errors there.
assigned nowhere in terms raised a Federal question. And,
in affirming the judgment of the Appellate Court, the Supreme Court did not consider or discuss any Federal question.
as such in its opinion. The Supreme Court held that the
agreement was fully made out, and that complainant was
entitled to a conveyance of the lots; that it was not material
whether the agreement was called an agreement to redeem
or an agreement of repurchase, "as the form of the transaction, in a court of equity, is not to be regarded;" that the
bill need not be treated as strictly a bill for specific performance, but it was enough that complainant was entitled to
have her property restored to her upon discharging the
burden upon it fixed in amount by the agreement.
The Supreme Court of Illinois further said: "It is also
claimed that complainant's failure to assert the alleged agreement in the foreclosure proceedings is a bar to its assertion
here -that the proceedings in the foreclosure are conclusive.
We are unable to concur in this position. It was part of the
arrangement under which the complainant was to obtain the
two lots in controversy, that a decree of foreclosure should be
entered, and that the premises should be sold under such
decree. The decree was rendered and the sale made by consent, for the purpose of clearing the different tracts of land
mentioned in the quitclaim deed, from certain incumbrances.
The decree was not adverse to the interest of complainant,
but in harmony with her interest. She is not attacking the
decree, but claiming the enforcement of an agreement under
which it was rendered, and in our judgment there is no
ground for holding that the rights of plaintiff Nwere cut off
or in any manner impaired by the decree."
It is now contended that it then appeared that defendant
claimed to hold an absolute title to the lots in question by
virtue of the foreclosure proceedings and of the master's deed
obtained thereunder, and hence that the title was claimed under an authority exercised under the United States; that a
Federal question was thereby raised on the record; that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

decision of the case necessarily involved passing on the claim
of title; that the opinion of the Supreme Court of Illinois
showed that it was passed upon; and that the necessary
effect of the decree and judgment of the state court was
against the right and title of defendant sufficiently claimed
under Federal authority. But we cannot accept this conelusion.
In the recent case of Oxley Stave Company v. Butler County,
166 U. S. 648, 654, this court, speaking by Mr. Justice Harlan,
said:
"The only remaining question was not otherwise raised
than by the general allegation that the decree was rendered
against dead persons as well as in the absence of necessary
parties who had no notice of the suit, and therefore no opportunity to be heard in vindication of their rights. Do such
general allegations meet the statutory requirement that the
final judgment of a state court may be reexamined here if
it denies some title, right, privilege or immunity 'specially
set up or claimed' under the Constitution or authority of
the United States? We think, not. The specific contention
now is that the decree of the Butler County Circuit Court in
the suit instituted by the county of Butler was not consistent
with the due process of law required by the Fourteenth
Amendment of the Constitution of the United States. But
can it be said that the plaintiffs speeially set up or claimed
the protection of that Amendment against the operation of
that decree by simply averring- without referring to the
Constitution or even adopting its phraseology -that the decree was passed against deceased persons as well as in the
absence of necessary or indispensable parties?
"This question must receive a negative answer, if due effect
be given to the words ' specially set up or claimed' in section
709 of the Revised Statutes. These words were in the twentyfifth section of the Judiciary Act of 1789 (1 Stat. 85), and were
inserted in order that the revisory power of this court should
not extend to rights denied by the final judgment of the
highest court of a State, unless the party claiming such rights
plainly and distinctly indicated, before the state court dis-

MUTUAL LIFE I NSURA.KCE CO. v. KIROHOFF.

111

Opinion of the Court.

-posed of the case, that they were claimed under the Constitution, treaties or statutes of the United States. The words
' specially set up or claimed' imply that if a party intends to
invoke for the protection of his rights the Constitution of the
United States or some treaty, statute, commission or authority of the United States, he must so declare; and unless
he does so declare 'specially,' that is, unmistakably, this court
is without authority to reexamine the final judgment of the
,state court. This statutory requirement is not met if such
declaration is so general in its character that the purpose of
the party to assert a Federal right is left to mere inference.
It is the settled doctrine of this court that the jurisdiction of
the Circuit Courts of the United States must appear affirmatively from the record, and that it is not sufficient that it may
be inferred argumentatively from the facts stated. Hence,
the averment that a party resides in a particular State does
not import that he is a citizen of that State. Brown v.
.Keene, 8 Pet. 112, 115; Robertson v. Cease, 97 U. S.646, 649.
Upon like grounds the jurisdiction of this court to reexamine
the final judgment of a state court cannot arise from mere
inference, but only from averments so distinct and positive
.as to place it beyond question that the party bringing a case
here from such court intended to assert a Federal right."
Tested by this rule it is quite apparent that defendant did
not specially set up or claim a Federal right -or title within
the meaning of section 709, and that no right or title so
-claimed was denied by the Supreme Court on the first
.appeal.
And as the judgment of that court determined the rights of
the parties and left open only. the amount due on the accounting, the suggestion of the disposition of a Federal question by
that judgment comes too late.
After the case went back to the Circuit Court for the entry
,of decree in favor of Mrs. Kirchoff and the accounting, defendant moved for leave to amend its answer by inserting the
following:
"And the said defendant, further answering, says that by
reason and in virtue of the said foreclosure decrees in the said

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

United States court, the sale thereunder, the confirmation
thereof, and all the acts and doings of said court therein, the
said Union Mutual Life Insurance Company acquired a title
and right to the lands aforesaid; that said right and title was
acquired and is claimed under the Constitution, statutes and
authority of the United States; that a decree for redemption
or specific performance of the contract alleged in said bill
would be against the right and title of said company thus
acquired and hereby claimed under the Constitution, laws
and authority of the United States; that a decree for redemption or specific performance, as prayed for in said bill, or
either of them, would fail to give.full faith, credit and effect
to the said decrees, orders and acts of the United States
Circuit Court in the foreclosure proceedings aforesaid; that a
decree for redemption or specific performance, as prayed for,
or either of them, cannot be entered without attacking and
pretending to nullify or impair the said decrees, orders and
acts of the said United States Circuit Court, and that, for the
foregoing reasons, this court is without jurisdiction of the
subject-matter of the action set forth in the bill 'of complaint
and is without jurisdiction to enter a decree for redemption or
specific performance, as prayed for in said bill of complaint."
But the Circuit Court refused to allow the amendment.
There was no contention that any Federal question arose
on the accounting itself. The case having reached the Appellate Court the second time, the Insurance Company assigned,
among other errors, that the Circuit Court erred "in that it
did not dismiss complainant's bill for want of jurisdiction;"
"in not holding that it was without jurisdiction to enter a
decree allowing redemption;" "in entering a decree which
would in effect nullify the decree and doings of the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Northern District of Illinois;" "in entering a decree in conflict with the decree of
the United States Circuit Court;" "in refusing to the defendant leave to file the proposed amendment to its answer;"
"in entering a decree against the validity of titles claimed by
defendant under the authority of the United States."
It will be perceived that, so far as Federal questions were

IUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. v. KIRCHOFF.

113

Opinion of the Court.

thus attempted to be raised, they were all covered by the
prior judgment.
The Appellate Court on the second appeal held itself bound
by the previous decision and declined to enter on matters of
defence which might have been availed of. The Supreme
Court was of the same opinion, for it ruled that where a case
had once been reviewed by the court, and remanded with
directions as to the decree to be entered, error could not be
assigned on a subsequent appeal for any cause existing at the
time of the prior judgment.
Nevertheless the Supreme
Court said:
"Much of the argument of counsel for appellant is devoted
to an effort to show a want of jurisdiction in the Circuit
Court of Cook County over the subject-matter of this litigation. Whether, upon this second appeal, that is an open
question we do not deem it important to determine, being
clearly of the opinion that the position of counsel is untenable. It is said the suit is brought to review and set aside
a; decree of the United States Circuit Court, and the bill is
treated, throughout the discussion, as hostile to the foreclosure
proceeding in that court, or as attempting to obtain relief
properly available in that action.
"This is a misapprehension of the scope and purpose of complainant's bill. In our former opinion we said: 'After the
settlement had been concluded, it turned out that certain incumbrances existed against some of the property, which were
subsequent to the trust deed, but which would take priority to
the quitclaim deed executed by complainant and her husband.
It therefore became necessary, in order to obtain a perfect
title, to go on with the foreclosure proceedings, which was
done.' This statement is based upon an allegation of the bill
to the effect that, it being represented to the complainant by
the attorney of the company that it would be necessary to
foreclose the trust deed in order to make good the title in
the company to the lots before they could take a mortgage
thereon for the instalments of redemption money, it was
agreed between the parties that the agreement for redemption
should not be executed until after the title had been perfected
VOL. CLxrx-8

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

in the company by foreclosure, but in the meantime complainant should execute and deliver to the company her quitclaim
deed, and should interpose no defence to such foreclosure.
The allegation was found, in the opinion above referred to,
sustained by proofs, and is conclusive of that fact upon this
appeal. The foreclosure decree in this Federal court was
therefore as much the result of the agreement relied upon by
complainant as was the making of the quitclaim deed by her.
So far from this being an attempt to review, modify or set
aside the decree of the United States Circuit Court, the right
of action is predicated, in part at least, upon it.
"Whether the bill be called a bill to redeem, or given
another name, can in no way affect the question of jurisdiction
in the state court. The relief sought is the enforcement of a
contract to reconvey the property in question, which we have
already held the complainant entitled to. Her rights grow out
of the alleged contract, and not by reason of anything that
was done, or could have been done, in the Federal court in
the foreclosure suit.
"That a court of equity has jurisdiction to enforce the contract, whether it be called a contract to redeem or to reconvey,
is, we think, too clear for argument."
The Supreme Court did not decide that the case was reopened as to matters previously adjudicated, and we cannot
regard these observations as amounting to such disposition, on
a second appeal, of Federal questions which might have been,
but were not, raised on the first appeal, as would justify us in
taking jurisdiction.
It was further argued at this bar that the agreement was
fraudulent and illegal as respected the foreclosure decree; and
that the decree of the state court upholding an agreement
thus tainted, ascribed to that decree an operation which would
not have been permitted in the courts of the United States,
and in that view involved a review thereof or a refusal to give
it its due effect.
We do not find that the state courts were asked to pass on
any such question. If it was really contended before them
that the agreement was invalid on the ground that it provided

WETMORE v. RYMER.
Statement of the Case.

that the United States court should go to decree and sale in
order to cut off intervening liens, it may be conceded that
th')se courts held, on the facts appearing, that the agreement
was not open to that objection, but it would not follow that
thereby a Federal question was disposed of. And the point
was certainly embraced by the first judgment.
We are of opinion that we cannot revise the present judgment on the ground that plaintiff in error was thereby denied
any right properly claimed, and in apt time, in accordance
with ยง 709 of the Revised Statutes.
Wvrit of error dismnissed.

WETMORE v. RYMER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.
No. 76. Submitted November 1, 1S97. - Decided January 17, 1898.

In an action of ejectment the question whether the land in dispute is of
sufficient value to give a Circuit Court jurisdiction is purely one of fact,
and the statutes regulating jurisdiction leave the mode of trying such
issues to the discretion of the trial judge.
Whether he elects to submit such issue to a jury, or to himself hear and
determine it without the intervention of a jury, in either event the parties
are not concluded by the judgment of the Circuit Court.
In this case the question was passed upon by the court below on affidavits,
and the judgment dismissing the action for want of jurisdiction is reviewable here.
A suit cannot properly be dismissed by a Circuit Court as not involving
a controversy of an amount sufficient to come within its jurisdiction,
unless the facts, when made to appear on the record, create a legal certainty of that conclusion.

THIS was an action of ejectment, brought in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Tennessee, to recover a tract of land in Polk County. The declaration alleged that the land was worth more than two thousand
dollars. The defendants disclaimed as to a portion of the

