WILLIAMS v. PAINE.
Statement of the Case.

dismissing the bill, and remand the case to the Circuit Court
with directions to take such further proceedings as may be in
conformity with this opinion.

WILLIAMS v. PAINE.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUIdEIA.
No. 114. Argued November 29, 30, 189.-Decided January 10, 1897.
Under the laws of Maryland, which were in force in the District of Columblain 1859, it was competent for a married woman, outside of the District,
to execute, with her husband, a power of attorney to convey her lands
therein, which, when acknowledged by her according to the statute relating to the acknowledgment by married women of deeds conveying
their real property in the District, thereby became a valid and sufficient
instrument to authorize the conveyance by attorney; and the first
section of the act of March 3, 1865, c. 110, 13 Stat. 531, contains a clear
legislative recognition of the right to execute such power.
Such a power of attorney, executed in one of the Northern States before
the civil war by a married woman then residing there, was not revoked
by the fact that when that war broke out she and her husband removed
to the Southern States, where he entered the Confederate service, and
where she resided to the close of the war.
When the purchase money for land sold under such a power is received by
the principal, to permit her heirs after her death to repudiate the transaction, on the ground that the power of attorney had been revoked by
the war, would be in conflict with every principle of equity and fair
dealing.
A majority of the court think that the deed made under the power of attorney which is in controversy in this suit, and which is printed at length
In the Statement of the Case, below, was in the nature of a conveyance
of the legal title, though defectively executed, and that it came within
the provisions of the act of March 3, 1865, and its defective execution
was thereby cured.
By this disposition of the whole case upon the merits the court is not to be
considered as deciding that parties situated as the plaintiffs were in this
case, out of possession, can maintain an action for partition.

Tim appellants herein brought this suit in the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia for the purpose of obtaining

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

partition of certain lands in the city of Washington, known
as square 53 of the ground plan of that city.
Upon the trial it appeared that the common source of title
was one George W. Peter, who, in January, 1837, conveyed
the premises to Henry Huntt and Benjamin Ogle Tayloe as
tenants in common. Mr. Huntt died in 1838 intestate, leaving
two daughters, Fannie and Mary, and a son named George
Gibson Huntt, to whom his undivided interest in these lands
descended. Fannie married an officer in the United States
Army named Gibson, and Mary married an officer in that army
named Robert Ransom, Jr. In May, 1859, Lieutenant Ransom was stationed at Carlisle Barracks in Pennsylvania, and
at that time he and his wife executed and acknowledged a
power of attorney to the brother of Mrs. Ransom, to convey
their interest in the land, the material part of which power
reads as follows:
'Know all men by these presents, whereas Lieut. Robert
Ransom, Jr., of the United States Army, and Mary his wife
in right of the said Mary are seized in fee-simple as tenants in
common, with the sister and brother of the said Mary, to wit,
Fanny Huntt and George Gibson Huntt and with B. 0. Tayloe of certain lots of ground in the city of Washington in the
District of Columbia, which are described as follows: [Describing among others the lots in question.] To provide for
the contingency of our absence we, the said Robert Ransom,
Jr., and Mary my wife, do by these presents constitute and
appoint and in our place put and depute the said George Gibson
Huntt, of Washington city aforesaid, to be our true and lawful attorney in fact for us, and in our name place and stead to
control, manage, grant, bargain and sell, and in that event
convey all our right, title and interest in and to the said lots
and square of ground or any part or parts thereof, or to join
in and for us and in our name to sign any proceedings in partition of the said lots and square, or to appear for us in court
for that purpose; and in regard to the said real estate to do,
execute and perform every act and thing necessary to be done
as fully and amply as we might or could do if personally pres-

WILLIAMS v. PAINE.
Statement of the Case.

.ent, and we do hereby ratify and confirm all and whatsoever
-our said attorney in fact may legally do in the premises.
"In witness whereof we, the said parties to these presents,
'have hereunto set our hands and seals this twenty-third day
-of May, A.D. one thousand eight hundred and fifty-nine.
"Witnesses present:
R. RAwsom, Jr. [SEAL.]
"S. H. GR&,AM.
M. H. RANsom. [SEAL.]
"A. L. SPONSLER."
This paper was duly acknowledged by both Lieutenant
Ransom and his wife, the latter of whom made the acknowledgment necessary to be made in the District of Columbia in
.order to convey real estate by a married woman.
The acknowledgment and the certificate thereof are full
.and complete, and taken and certified by a proper officer.
The premises in question at that time were vacant lots.
.Soon after the execution of this power of attorney, Lieuten.ant Ransom was ordered away, and, with his wife, he left the
:station at Carlisle Barracks and went to Fort Lyon in the
western country. He was a nativb of one of the Southern
States, and when the war broke out he resigned his commis:sion in the army and entered the Confederate -service, and at
the conclusion of the war he had risen in that service to the
rank of general. Mrs. Ransom's brother, George Gibson
Huntt, to whom the power of attorney above mentioned was
.given, remained in the old army. At the conclusion of the
war General Ransom returned with his wife to his native
.State, North Carolina, where she died in February, 1881,
leaving a number of children who are complainants herein.
He remained in that State until his death in January, 1892.
During the continuance of the war, the children of the
deceased Mr. Huntt became anxious to sell their interest in
the premises in question, as the laud was still vacant and
unimproved, and a source of expense in the way of the payment of taxes. It was more particularly on account of Mrs.
Ransom that *the sale was desired, in order to aid her as far
.as possible by turning her interest in the lands into money.
Negotiations for the sale of the property were therefore com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

menced some time in 186-4 through a real estate agent employed by Mr. Walter S. Cox, a distant relative of the parties
and then a practising lawyer at the bar of the District, now
one of the Justices of the Supreme Court thereof. These
negotiations resulted in the sale of all their interest in the
property to Mr. Tayloe, the owner of the other half interest
therein, and deeds were duly given therefor by Mrs. Gibson
and Mr. iunntt to Mr. Tayloe, and on the 29th of November,
1864, Mr. Huntt, assuming to act under the power of attorney
already mentioned, executed, acknowledged and delivered to
Mr. Benjamin 0. Tayloe a paper which reads as follows:
"Know all men by these presents, that I, George Gibson
Huntt, by virtue of the annexed power of attorney to me from
Robert Ransom, Jr., and Mary Ransom, his wife, and for and
in consideration of the sum of eight hundred and thirty-three
,%e. dollars to me in hand paid by Benjamin Ogle Tayloe, of
the city of Washington in the District of Columbia, the receipt
of which is hereby acknowledged, have bargained and sold to
said B. 0. Tayloe, his heirs and assigns, all the right, title
and estate of them, the skid Robert Ransom, Jr., and Mary
Ransom, being one undivided third part of, in and to those
pieces of ground in the city of Washington aforesaid, known
and described as lots Nos. one and three in square No. five,
lot No. ten in square No. fourteen, lots Nos. five and nine in
square No. seventeen, lots Nos. three and four in square No.
twenty-eight, lot No. three in square No. thirty and the whole
of square No. fifty-three, with the improvements and appurtenances; and I hereby further agree in behalf of said Robert
and Mary Ransom, that they shall and will, as soon as convenient, make and execute a proper deed of conveyance of
said premises to said Benj'n 0. Tayloe, in fee-simple.
"In testimony whereof I have hereunto set my hand and
seal this 29th day of November, A.D. 1864.
"GE1o GE Gi~sox Hrrr. [SnA.]
(Stamp, $1. G. G. H.

Jan. 4th, '65.)

"Witness: W. Kline."
This paper was acknowledged by Huntt before officers dif-

WILLIAMS v. PAiNE.
Statement of the Case.

ferent from those before whom proof of the power of attorney
was made. It was also and on the 14th day of January, 1865,
recorded in the proper land records office in the District of
Columbia, together with the power of attorney already referred to.
The purchase price of the lands was paid to Mr. Cox, who
promptly paid over her share to Mrs. Gibson, and also included in such payment the share belonging to Mrs. Ransom,
and Mrs. Gibson duly paid over Mrs. Ransom's share to her
or expended the same for her benefit and with her approval.
This was done prior to the close of the war, while Mrs. Ransom was within the lines of the Southern army with her
husband, and Mrs. Gibson was in one of the Northern States.
After the death of Mr. Tayloe, which occurred in 1868, one
of his daughters, Julia Tayloe, in November, 1870, succeeded,
under proceedings in partition, to all the interest of her
father in the premises. She married in 1865 the defendant,
John W. Paine, and the other three defendants are the
children of such marriage. From the time of the division of
the estate of Mrs. Paine's father, Mr. Tayloe, which took
place in 1870, his daughter, Mrs. Paine, claimed to be the
owner of the property, and was in possession thereof, renting
it through her husband and his agents, for a coal yard and
for other purposes, and paying the taxes upon the same up to
the time of her death in 1872, since which time her husband
has been in possession, claiming the right as tenant by the
courtesy, and his three children claim title in fee, subject to
the life estate of their father.
Prior to the filing of this bill Mr. Paine had expended large
sums of money in building twenty-two dwelling houses on the
property at a cost of about $125,000, and has received the
rents from such houses and paid the taxes on the property,
the whole property being now estimated to be worth about
$250,000. The sum at which the property was sold in 1864
was a fair price for the same and the best that could be
secured after earnest efforts made to sell it.
After the death of Robert Ransom and his wife this bill
was filed by their children, and the relief sought is to have

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

the paper executed by Mrs. Ransom's brother, George Gibson
Huntt, under the power of attorney given by her husband
and herself, declared null and void as a cloud upon the title of
the complainants in this property, and the bill then asks that
the right of the complainants to a one sixth (Mrs. Ransom's
.alleged) interest in the land in fee as tenants in common with
the defendants may be established against all the defendants,
.as well the life tenant as the reversioners, and the land partitioned accordingly.
Upon these facts the Supreme Court of the District of
,Columbia dismissed the bill with costs, and its judgment to
that effect, having been affirmed by the Court of Appeals
of the District, 7 D. C. App. 116, the case is now here
upon the complainants' appeal from that judgment of affirm.ance.
.Mr.
Franklin 1H. .Xackey for appellants.
.Xr. Calderon Ca'lisle and Mr. William G. Johnson for
appellees.
Mn. JusTiCE

PECKEHA,

after stating the case, delivered the

-opinion of the court.
The questions in this case grow out of the execution of the
power of attorney by Lieutenant Ransom and his wife while
;at Carlisle Barracks, Pennsylvania, in 1859.
It is claimed on the part of appellants, (1) that the power
of attorney given by Mrs. Ransom, a married woman, (jointly
with her husband,) could not operate as a valid authority to
the attorney named therein to convey her real estate, because
.a married woman could not convey real estate by a power of
attorney; (2) that the power of attorney was revoked by the
war; (3) that the paper executed by the attorney in fact
pursuant to the power of attorney was not a conveyance, and
-did not pass the title of Mrs. Ransom to Mr. Tayloe; (4) that
these difficulties were not cured by the act of Congress of
-darch 3, 1865, c. 110, 13 Stat. 531, entitled "An act to quiet

WILLIAMS v. PAINE.
Opinion of the Court.

titles in favor of parties in actual possession of lands situated
in the District of Columbia," as that act only applied to&
instruments conveying lands and to parties who were in.
actual possession at the time when the act was passed; and thepaper executed by the attorney was not a conveyance, and
when the act was passed the premises in question were vacant;
(5) that the purchase price for her interest in that land was.
never received by Mrs. Ransom, and her heirs are not estopped from setting up the invalidity of the alleged contract.
of sale or conveyance upon any equitable grounds.
The first section of the above act is set out in the margin.'
1 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United:
States of America in Congressassembled, That all deeds heretofore recorded
in the land records of the District of .Columbia, which have been executed
and acknowledged by femmes covert (their husbands having signed and.
sealed the same) for conveying any real estate, or interest therein, situated
in said Distrit; and all acknowledgments of deeds heretofore recorded, as.
aforesaid, which have been made by femmes covert (whether they have
executed the deed or not) for the purpose of releasing their claims to dowerin the lands described therein, situated as aforesaid, in which acknowledgments the form prescribed by law has not been followed ; and all deeds
heretofore recorded, as aforesaid, which have been executed and acknowledged by an attorney in fact, duly appointed for conveying real estate
situated in said District; and all deeds heretofore recorded, as aforesaid,.
executed and acknowledged, or only acknowledged by such attorney in.
fact, for conveying real estate situated in said District, as to which the
acknowledgment was made before officers different from those before whom
proof of the power of attorney was made, and as to which the power of
attorney was proved before only one justice of the peace; and all deeds
heretofore executed and recorded as aforesaid for the purpose of conveying land situated in said District, acknowledged out of the District of
Columbia, before a judge of a United States court, or before two aldermen
of a city, or the chief magistrate of a city, or before a notary public; and'
all deeds heretofore executed and recorded as aforesaid for the purpose of
conveying land situated in said District, acknowledged by an attorney in,
fact, duly appointed, or by an officer of a corporation, duly authorized, who
has acknowledged the same to be his act and deed, instead of the act and
deed of the grantor or of the corporation; and all deeds heretofore executed
and recorded as aforesaid for the purpose of conveying land situated in
said District to which there is not annexed a legal certificate as to the
official character of the officer or officers taking the acknowledgment, shall
be, and the same are hereby, declared to be of the same effect and validity
to pass the fee-simple or other estate intended to be conveyed, and bar

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

Very careful and well-considered opinions have been delivered in the case, both in the Supreme Court and in the
Court of Appeals of the District, in which these various
questions are discussed. The Supreme Court held that the
two papers (the power of attorney and the instrument executed in pursuance thereof) were so far valid as to be subject
only to such objections and defects of form of execution and
acknowledgment as could be cured by legislation, and these
defects were cured by the act of Congress; that this statute
was constitutional, and that the power of attorney was not
revoked by the war, but was in full force and valid when the
deed by the attorney was executed. The court also thought
the defence which had been set up, that the complainants
were at the commencement of the suit and thereafter out of
possession and their title denied by the defendants, who were
dower in the real estate therein mentioned in favor of parties in actual
possession, claiming under and through such deeds, as if such deeds had
been by such femmes covert executed and acknowledged, or acknowledged
in case of a dower right, in the form heretofore prescribed by law; as if
such deeds had been executed and acknowledged by the grantor in the deed;
as if such power of attorney had been proved before the officer or officers
taking the acknowledgment; as if such power of attorney had been proved
before two justices of the peace; as if such acknowledgment had been
made before any judge of a state court, or before two justices of the
peace; as if such attorneys in fact or officer of a corporation had acknowledged the deed to be the deed of the grantor or of the corporation; as if
such deeds had thereto annexed a certificate, in legal form, that the officer
or officers taking the acknowledgment were really what they purport to
be: Provided, That the certificate of acknowledgment by a femme covert
shall show that the acknowledgment was made "apart" or "privily" from
her husband, or use some other term importing that her acknowledgment
was made out of his presence, and also that she acknowledged or declared
that she willingly executed or that she willingly acknowledged the deed,
or that the same was her voluntary act, or to that effect: Andprovided,
-also, That when the power of attorney shall have [been] executed by a
femme covert the same shall be effectual and sufficient if there shall have
been such an acknowledgment of the same as would be sufficient, under
the provisions of this act, to pass her estate and interest therein were she
a party executing the deed of conveyanc6, the record and copy thereof of
any deed recorded as aforesaid to be evidence thereof, in the same manner
and to have the same effect as if such deed had been originally executed,
acknowledged and recorded according to law.

WILLIAMS v. PAINE.
Opinion of the Court.

in actual and full possession, was an answer to the bill for
partition even if there had been no other defence proved.
The bill was therefore dismissed.
The Court of Appeals, while discussing somewhat the defence that complainants were out of possession, did not decide
the case upon that ground, but held that the power of attorney (properly acknowledged by Mrs. Ransom, as above stated)
duly conferred upon the attorney in fact the legal power to
convey Mrs. Ransom's interest in the land; that the war
did not revoke the power; that the paper executed and delivered by the attorney in fact was not a conveyance, but
only a contract for the sale and conveyance of the land; that
the act of Congress did not apply to such a paper; and, lastly,
that the contract of sale was within the scope of the power
of attorney, and vested in the purchaser an equitable interest
or estate which, upon general equitable principles, a court of
equity would not divest out of the vendee in the absence of
fraud, and no fraud being alleged or shown, and the purchase
money having been received by Mrs. Ransom, equity would
not set aside the sale. We will now state the conclusions to
which we have come regarding these questions:
And, first, as to the question whether the power of attorney executed by Lieutenant Ransom and wife to George
Gibson lluntt authorized and enabled the attorney to bargain and sell and convey, or contract to convey by deed of
bargain and sale, the property therein mentioned. We think
it did.
Under the laws of Maryland, which were in force in the
District of Columbia in 1859, we think it was then competent
for a married woman, outside of the District, to execute, with
her husband, a power of attorney to convey her lands therein,
which, when acknowledged by her according to the statute
relating to the acknowledgment by married women of deeds
conveying their real property in the District, thereby became
a valid and sufficient instrument to authorize the conveyance
by attorney. It is not claimed that the acknowledgment to
the power of attorney in this case was insufficient in matter
of form to comply with the statute in that respect.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

The real contention is, assuming the acknowledgment tohave been sufficient, that a married woman could not by any
manner of acknowledgment appoint an attorney with authority to convey her lands. It is true that by the common law
a married woman could not convey an estate of freehold.
owned by her unless by levying a fine or suffering a common
recovery. This was altered by the statute in England of 3 &
4 Will. IV, c. 74, abolishing fines and recoveries, and providing other means for the conveyance of estates. In most, if
not all, of the States of the Union, statutes have been passed
providing for the manner in which a married woman can
dispose of her real estate. These statutes were intended toand did set aside the technicalities of the common law, and
they provided some simple and effectual method for the transfer of the interests of married women in real estate. The
Chief Justice of the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia, in delivering the opinion of that court in this case,
has cited several Maryland statutes which the court holds
were in force in this District in 1859, and those statutes are
also held to provide for the case of the execution of a power
of attorney by a married woman joined in by her husband
and privily acknowledged by her, authorizing the attorney in
fact to convey her real property in the District.
This separate acknowledgment is provided for in probably
all the statutes of the various States relating to the subject
of the conveyance by married women of any interest they
may have in real estate. It has been said to be the most
important and essential element in the method employed to
transfer such estates.
The statutes referred to in the opinion are the statutes of
Maryland of 1715, c. 47; 1752, c. 8; and 1766, c. 14; and in
those statutes the ceremony of the private examination of the
married woman and her voluntary acknowledgment of the
deed were made substitutes for the private examination as to
her voluntary consent in the levying of *thefine or the suffering of a common recovery. After citing these various statutes
of Maryland and commenting upon their provisions relating
to conveyances of married women, the Chief Justice, in his.
opinion in this case, says:

WILLIAMS v. PAINE.
Opinion of the Court.

"These provisions of the acts of 1715 and 1766 were in
force in this District in 1859, and are still in force, and they
were in no respect repealed by or in conflict with the acts of
Congress of the 31st of May, 1832, (4 Stat. 520,) and of the
20th of April, 1838, (5 Stat. 926, relating to the execution and
acknowledgment of deeds for land in the District of Columbia.
The acts of Congress do not profess to repeal the acts of Maryland of 1715 and 1766, or to be exclusive in their operation;
but they have, in some particulars, not involved here, amplified
and extended the provisions of the former statutes then in
force. And, construing these statutes all together, and looking
to the reason and policy upon which they are founded, it would
seem to be clear that in the year 1859 and down to the year
1865, it was competent to a feme covert, by a joint power of
attorney with her husband, duly executed and acknowledged
according to the forms prescribed by the statute, to execute and
acknowledge a valid deed of conveyance of her real estate
situate in the District of Columbia. It is well settled that a
power to convey land must possess the same requisites, and
observe the same solemnities in execution and acknowledgment, as are necessary in a deed directly conveying the land;
and that a title to land can only be acquired and lost according to the laws of the place where the land is situated.
(Clark v. Graham, 6 Wheat. 577.) In this case, the property to be conveyed was specifically mentioned and described
in the power of attorney; and the power of attorney was
executed and acknowledged at Carlisle, in the State of Pennsylvania, by husband and wife, under their hands and seals,
and the acknowledgment and authentication of the instrument was in all respects in accordance with the provisions of
the statutes in force in the District of Columbia, providing
the manner and form in which the real estate of femes coverts
could be conveyed. Indeed, we do not understand that the
statutory requirement in respect to the form of acknowledgment and authentication thereof, is a matter of objection.
The terms of the statutes, 'any grantor or bargainor of any
lands or tenements,' being out of the province; or 'any
person or persons conveying,' etc.; not residing in the provVOL. cLXIX-5

OCTOBER TERf, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

ince at the time,' etc., ' may acknowledge said deed by letter
of attorney, well and sufficiently proved,' etc., are sufficient to
embrace femes coverts, authorized to sell and convey their real
estate. If not, then the husband. could not sell and convey by
power of attorney, free of the contingent right of dower of
his wife, for if the wife could not acknowledge by power of
attorney a deed for the conveyance of her own real estate, she
would be equally unable to acknowledge, by power of attorney,
a deed for the relinquishment of dower in the lands of her
husband. Such disability, we think, was never intended by
the legislatures passing the statutes to which we have referred,
to be fixed upon femes coverts, having lands with right to convey the same."
We give great weight to the views expressed by the Chief
Justice in regard to these statutes of Maryland because, as is
well known, he occupied for many years a seat upon the
bench as Chief Justice of the Court of Appeals of that State,
and is specially familiar with its laws and the construction
given them by the courts of the State. In addition to such
circumstance and from a perusal of the various statutes cited,
our own judgment concurs with the Court of Appeals upon
this question. We think a clear implication arises from the
provisions of these acts that a power of attorney such as has
been described, and acknowledged as already mentioned, was
good in 1859 in this District. We can think of no good reason
for excluding such implication. Where the person is by the
statute allowed to do the principal thing directly, we think
she could do it by power of attorney as described in this case.
The power to convey includes in such case the power to appoint another to do the same thing. We, therefore, agree
with the views expressed by some of the text writers, when
power is given by statute to married women to convey their
interest in real estate where their husbands join in the conveyance and where the private examination is made, that in
such cases the right of the wife to dispose of it by power of
attorney joined in by her husband and where she was privately
examined, etc., would naturally be implied. The common law
which incapacitates a married woman from making a contract

WILLIAMS v. PAINE.
Opinion of the Court.

in general is so far altered by the statute as to permit her to
execute a power of attorney and to therein contract to ratify
his acts, instead of conveying directly, as the statute in terms
provides. (See Washburn on Real Property, [4th ed.] vol. 3,
p. 258.) The author there says: "It is laid down unqualifiedly, in some of the States, that a married woman cannot
make a valid power of attorney, even jointly with her husband, to make a deed of her interest. But it is difficult to
perceive any reason for the rule where she can do the principal thing herself; and such a right is clearly recognized by
statute in Massachusetts. A similar right is also recognized
by statute in New York." We do not think the aid of a
statute is necessary. When the power is given her by law
to convey directly, she can by the same ceremonies authorize another to do the act for her. The reasoning which
would prevent it is, as we think, entirely too technical, fragile
.and refined for constant use. It is said in Story on Agency,
sec. 6: "So in regard to married women, ordinarily they are
incapable of appointing an agent or attorney; and even in
,case of a joint suit at law, an appointment of an attorney
by a married woman is void; and her husband may make an
attorney for both. But where a married woman is capable of
-doing an act, or of transferring property or rights with the
assent of her husband, there, perhaps, she may, with the
assent of her husband, appoint an agent or attorney to do
the same." In this case we hold that, as the wife was capable of conveying her real estate in Washington in 1859, by
a deed, properly executed and acknowledged by her privily,
etc., and joined in by her husband, she could accomplish the
same thing by authorizing another to convey for her, where
the authority was joined in by her husband, and the required
private examination, etc., made.
The Court of Appeals of Maryland has never, so far as we
can discover, construed the statutes above cited in any manner
opposed to the views expressed by the Court of Appeals of
this District in this case. The cases of Webster's Lessees v.
Hlall, 2 Hlarr. & McH. 19; Flannigan v. Young, 2 Harr. &
McEH. 38; Rollingsworth v. _lDonald, 2 Harr. & Johns. 230;

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

and Lawrence v. lReister, 3 Harr. & Johns. 371, in which the
above-named statutes are referred to, were all cases where
deeds had been executed and where the acknowledgment of
either the wife or the husband was held to be defective under
the provisions of those statutes. In some of the cases it was
said to be necessary, in order to pass the interest of the wife
in her land, that she and her husband must join in the deed
as grantors, which must be properly acknowledged, etc. This
statement was not made as descriptive of the only method by
which a married woman could convey her land, but was made
in relation to the defective manner in which the deed of conveyance was executed in the particular case, which was the
case of a deed defectively acknowledged under the statute.
No decision has been cited by counsel for the appellants from
the courts of Maryland which is inconsistent with or opposed
to the construction given to these statutes by the court below.
In HJolladay v. Daily, 19 Wall. 606, 610, the plaintiff and
his wife appointed an attorney with general power to convey
land which belonged to the husband. The attorney in fact
subsequently conveyed the lands, and the plaintiff Holladay,
after such conveyance, alleging that he had never received any
of the consideration money recited in the deed, sued to recover
back the possession of the land. The only question was as to
the sufficiency in law of the power of attorney from Holladay
and wife to Hughes, the attorney in fact, and his deed thereunder to pass the title of the husband. It was held that the
power was sufficient, the court saying: "Here the object, and
the sole object, of the power was to enable the attorney to
pass the title freed from any possible claim of the wife; and
under the law of Colorado that result could be accomplished
by the deed of the husband alone as fully without as with her
signature." What was said by the learned justice in delivering the opinion of the court in that case in regard to the manner in which the interest of married women in real estate
could be conveyed was not necessary to the decision of the
case, the point decided being that, considering its form, the
power of attorney signed by the husband and wife was valid
to convey his interest in the real property.

WILLIAMS v. PAIN-E.
Opinion of the Court.

Finally, upon this branch of the case, we also concur with
the lower court in holding that the first section of the act of
Congress, already mentioned, contains a clear legislative recognition of the right to make this power of attorney. In
this case, we think this fact is entitled to exceptional consideration. The act was evidently drawn with care, and it
fully and plainly describes the different defects of the various
instruments upon which it was intended to operate. Although
the section is quite long and the phraseology is somewhat
involved, yet the meaning of the section is perfectly clear.
Certain provisions therein fully recognize the then existing
right of a married woman to appoint jointly with her husband an attorney in fact to convey lands owned by her in
this District, and language is used for the purpose of curing certain named d~fects which might exist in the execution
or acknowledgment of such a paper. Speaking of the acknowledgment, the statute in the first section proceeds in
this way: "And provided, also, That when the power of
attorney shall have been executed by a feme covert, the same
shall be effectual and sufficient if there shall have been such
an acknowledgment of the same as would be sufficient, under
the provisions of this act, to pass her estate and interest
therein were she a party executing the deed of conveyance,
the record and copy thereof of any deed recorded as aforesaid
to be evidence thereof, in the same manner and to have the
same effect as if such deed had been originally executed,
acknowledged and recorded according to law." It had already been provided in the section "that the certificate of
acknowledgment by a feme covert shall show that the acknowledgment was made 'apart' or 'privily' from her husband, or
use some other term importing that her acknowledgment was
made out of his presence, and also that she acknowledged or
declared that, she willingly executed or that she willingly
acknowledged the deed, or that the same was her voluntary
act, or to that effect."
The acknowledgment attached to the power of attorney
in this case was sufficient under the provisions of this act to
pass the estate and interest of Mrs. Ransom if she had been a

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

party executing a deed conveying her real estate in the District.
Upon a consideration of all the circumstances, we have no
doubt that the power of attorney in question was properly
executed and acknowledged, and that it authorized the person
named therein as attorney in fact to convey Mrs. Ransom's
real estate situated in this District.
(2.) The next question which arises is whether this power
of attorney was revoked by the war which broke out between
the two sections of the country in 1861.
Lieutenant Ransom, although one of the last officers to go
out, did resign his commission in the army of the United
States and went South and entered the army of the Confederacy, in which, before the close of the war, he attained high
rank. His wife followed him, so that during the war they
were both inside the lines of the Confederacy.
We are of opinion that the war did not revoke the power of
attorney executed by Mrs. Ransom and her husband. It is
not every agency that is necessarily revoked by the breaking
out of a war between two countries, in which the principal
and agent respectively live. Certain kinds of agencies are
undoubtedly revoked by the breaking out of hostilities.
Agents of an insurance company, it is said, would come within
that rule. Insurance Company v. Davis, 95 U. S.425, 429.
In that case Mr. Justice Bradley, in delivering the opinion of
the court, said:
"That war suspends all commercial intercourse between
the citizens of two belligerent countries or States, except so
far as may be allowed by the sovereign authority, has been
so often asserted and explained in this court within the last
fifteen years that any further discussion of that proposition
would be out of place. As a consequence of this fundamental
proposition it must follow that no active business can be
maintained, either personally or by correspondence, or through
an agent, by the citizens of one belligerent with the citizens of
the other. The only exception to the rule recognized in the
books, if we lay out of view contracts for ransom and other
matters of absolute necessity, is that of allowing the payment

WILLIAMAS v. PAINE.
Opinion of the Court.

of debts to an agent of an alien enemy, where such agent resides in the same State with the debtor. lBut this indulgence
is subject to restrictions. In the first place, it must not be done
with the view of transmitting the funds to the principal during
the continuance of the war; though, if so transmitted without
the debtor's connivance, he will not be responsible for it."
The learned judge then adds that, in order to the subsistence
of the agency during the war, it must have the assent of the
parties.
These rematks were made in relation to the case then
before the court, which was an action on a policy of life
insurance issued by a :New York corporation before the war
upon the life of Davis, a citizen and resident of the State of
Virginia. The premiums were regularly paid until the beginning of the war, the last one having been made December 28,
1860. 1Previous to the war the company had an agent resid-,
ing in PNtersburg, Virginia, where the assured also resided,
and premiums on the policy had been paid him in the usual
way. About a year after the war broke out the agent entered
the Confederate service and remained there until the close of
the war. An offer of payment of the premium due in December, 1861, was made to the agent, which he declined to
receive, alleging that he had received no receipts from the
company, and that the money, if he did receive it, would be
confiscated by the Confederate government. He testified that
he refused to receive any premiums, had no connection with
the company during the war, and after it terminated did not
resume his agency. Davis died in September, 1867. The
plaintiff below was assignee of the policy, and claimed to
recover the amount of ten thousand dollars on the ground
that he was guilty of no laches and that at the close of the
war the policy revived. The judge instructed the jury that if
the assured was ready and offered to pay his premium to the
agent in Virginia, after the breaking out of the war, there
was no forfeiture of the policy, although the agent refused to
receive the money, if within a reasonable time after the war he
endeavored to pay his premium and the company refused to
receive it. The defendant contended that the war put an end

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

to the agency, and that the offer to pay the premium to the
former agent was of no validity, and the failure to pay rendered the policy void. This court held that the case was
nearly on all fours with that of the New York Life Insurance
Company v. Statham, 93 U. S. 24, but the point as to the supposed power of an agent of a company in the adhering States
to receive premiums in a State in insurrection after the war
broke out not having been specially adverted to in the opinion of the court in that case, it was particularly considered in
the .Davis case, as above quoted from. It was in relation to
such an agency that the remarks were made. Agents of a life
insurance company are undoubtedly engaged in the active
business of their principal. Their duty is to receive the premiums for all policies obtained by them and to transmit such
premiums to the home office. The prompt transmission of
such premiums is a necessity for the successful prosecution of
the business of the company. Upon their receipt' the company is able to invdst them in some interest-bearing security,
and thus provide funds for the ultimate payment of the policy
when it matures. It is easy to see that active and continuous
business of such a nature could not be carried on during a war
where the principal and the agent reside in the different countries engaged in such war.
In the case of Kershaw v. EeKsey, 100 Mass. 561, the general
subject of contracts and business entered into and transacted
between the citizens of the different States at war with each
other is examined, and the question treated with great care
by Mr. Justice Gray in delivering the opinion of the Supreme
Judicial Court of Massachusetts, and numerous authorities are
referred to and commented upon in the opinion. In the course
of that opinion it was said at page 512: "The result is, that
the law of nations, as judicially declared, prohibits all intercourse between citizens of the two belligerents which is inconsistent with the state of war between their countries; and
that this includes any act of voluntary submission to the
enemy, or receiving his protection; as well any act or contract which tends to increase his resources; and every kind
of trading or commercial dealing or intercourse, whether by

WILLIAMS v. PAIN-E.
Opinion of the Court.

transmission of money or goods, or orders for the delivery of
either, between the two countries, directly or indirectly, or
through the intervention of third persons or partnerships, or
by contracts in any form looking to or involving such transmission, or by insurances upon trade with or by the enemy.
Beyond the principle of these cases the prohibition has not
been carried by judicial decision. The more sweeping statements in the text-books are taken from the dicta which we
have already examined, and in none of them is any other
example given than those just mentioned. At this age of the
world, when all the tendencies of the law of nations are to
exempt individuals and private contracts from injury or restraint in consequence of war between their governments, we
are not disposed to declare such contracts unlawful as have
not been heretofore adjudged to be inconsistent with a state
of war."
Under the circumstances of this case, we think the attorney
in fact had the right to make the conveyance he did. It was
not an agency of the class such as is mentioned in Insurance
Comy~any v. Davis, supra, and was not necessarily revoked
and avoided by the war. Where it is obviously and plainly
against the interest of the principal that the agency should
continue, or where its continuance would impose some new
obligation or burden, the assent of the principal to the continuance of the agency after the war broke out will not be
presumed but must be proved, either by his subsequent ratification or in some other manner. And on the other hand,
where it is the manifest interest of the principal that the
agency, constituted before the war, should continue, the assent
of the principal will be presumed. Or, if the agent continues
to act as such, and his so acting is subsequently ratified by
the principal, then those acts are just as valid and binding
upon the principal as if no war had intervened. Insurance
Comjany v. Davis, suyra.
It is entirely plain, as we think, that the mere fact of the
breaking out of a war does not necessarily and as a matter of
law revoke every agency. Whether it is revoked or not depends upon the circumstances surrounding the case and the

OCTOBER TERMI,

1897.

Opinion of the Court.

nature and character of the agency. This case shows that in1859, at the time when the power of attorney was executed,
Lieutenant Ransom and his wife were desirous of realizing
their share of the value of the land in controversy. It was
vacant, unimproved land in the city of Washington, and the
charge for taxes was quite burdensome. The parties desired
to realize the money. No sale of the property was effected
from that time until the latter part of 1864, or early part of
1865. There is no evidence of any such change of circumstances as would naturally suggest a revocation of the authority to sell, but on the contrary the testimony is otherwise.
It appears to have been to the interest of all parties to sell
and thus to free themselves from a constant source of expense.
In addition to that, the evidence is clear and sufficient that
after the sale the action of the attorney in fact of Mrs. Ransom was ratified and confirmed by her by the receipt of her
share of the purchase money or its expenditure for her benefit
and with her assent and approval. Her sister, Mrs. Gibson,
testified that Mrs. Ransom's share of the purchase money was.
either paid over to her or expended for her at her direction.
This full and complete ratification of the act of the agent
shows conclusively the assent of the principal to the continuance of the agency notwithstanding the war. Some criticism
is made upon this testimony of Mrs. Gibson because, after
the passage of so many years, she is unable to state definitely
which course was pursued, whether the money was paid to
Mrs. Ransom, or whether it was expended for her at her direction. We think the criticism is not well founded. Mrs. Gibson might well have been able to state with absolute certainty
that she either paid the money to Mrs. Ransom or expended
it for her at her direction, and yet after this lapse of time she
might also be unable to state with like certainty which of the
two courses was pursued. It is perfectly possible for a witness
to be certain of the ultimate fact and yet to have forgotten the
intermediate facts upon which that ultimate fact was based.
Here we have a power of attorney properly executed for
the purpose of selling, among other lots, this real estate in
question, and a state of circumstances which fairly shows that

WILLIAMS v. PAINE.
Opinion of the Court.

it was for the benefit and interest of the principal that such
real estate should be sold at the time the sale in fact occurred;
we have also the principal's receipt of her share of the purchase money in 1865, with full knowledge of all the facts, and
her acquiescence in and approval of the action of her attorney
up to the time of her death in February, 1881. Upon these
facts, we think it clear that the instrument executed by the,
attorney in fact was as valid and effectual as if no war had
intervened. The ratification of the act of the attorney wasfull and complete. It recognized and assented to the continued existence of the agency. The purchase money for the
land was received by the principal, and to permit her heirs
after her death to repudiate the transaction on the ground
that the power of attorney had been revoked would be at
war with every principle of equity and fair dealing. This.
principle applies as strongly in the case of a married woman
as in any other, and it will not permit her or, upon her death,
her heirs at law to repudiate a transaction the benefits of
which she received with full knowledge of the circumstances.
attending it, and yet claim to recover an estate which had
been sold with her authority and the purchase money for
which had been paid to her. Bein v. Heath, 6 How. 228,
2M7; Bank v. Partee,99 U. S. 325, 329. Bedford v. Burton,
106 U. S. 338, considers generally the obligation of married
women to do equity under circumstances somewhat similar in
principle to the present case.
1or does the act of Congress of Tuly 17, 1862, c. 189, 12
Stat. 589, to suppress insurrection, etc., have any effect upon
the sales, transfers or conveyance of the estate and property of
persons in rebellion after September 23, 1862, except as to the
United States. As against that Government, the transfers of
property liable to seizure were null and void; they were not
void as between private parties or against any other party
than the United States. Conrad v. Wapes, 96 U. S. 279, 288.
(3.) Even though the power of attorney were valid and had
not been revoked by the war, it is objected that the instrument executed by the attorney in fact conveyed no title, but.
at best was a mere contract of sale; and,

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

(4.) That this objection is not cured by the act of Congress,
above set forth.
These two questions may be considered together; and it
makes no difference in the result whether the instrument be
construed as conveying a legal title, or an equitable title only.
Some of the justices of this court concur in opinion with
the Court of Appeals that, taking all the provisions of the instrument together, it did not amount to a deed of conveyance,
but only to an agreement to convey made by an attorney
who was authorized by his power to make a conveyance. In
that aspect of the case, the instrument would convey an
equitable title, which would afford a good defence to this
bill; and it would be unnecessary to invoke the curative act
of Congress.
But a majority of this court is of opinion that the instrument was in the nature of a conveyance of the legal title,
though defectively executed, and that it came within the provisions of the act, and the defect was thereby cured.
We agree generally that although there are words of conveyance in2rcewenti in a contract for the purchase and sale of
lands, still, if from the whole instrument it is manifest that
further conveyances were contemplated by the parties, it
will be considered an agreement to convey and not a conveyance. The whole question is one of intehtion to be gathered
from the instrument itself. Jackson v. .Moncrief,5 Wend. 26;
Ogden v. Brown, 33 Penn. St. 247; Phillips v. Swank, 120
Penn. St. 76.
Looking at the instrument executed by the attorney it
will be seen that he refers to and annexes the power of attorney executed to him by Robert Ransom, Jr., and Mrs.
Ransom, his wife, states the consideration received by him
from Mr. Tayloe, acknowledges its receipt, and then acknowledges that he has " bargained and sold to Mr. B. 0. Tayloe,
his heirs and assigns, all the right, title and estate of them,
the said Robert Ransom, Jr., and Mary Ransom, being one
undivided third part of, in and to" the various pieces of
ground, including the ground in question, and then adds,
"with the improvements and appurtenances." Stopping here,

WILLIAMS v. PAINE.
Opinion of the Court.

and construing the language of the instrument, there can
be no question that it was executed as a conveyance of the
interest of the principals in the land, and was intended as such
by the attorney in fact. Although the instrument shows an
intention on the part of the attorney to convey the title of his
principals, yet, instead of signing their names by himself as
attorney, he signs his own name, preceding the signature with
the statement "In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my
hand and seal this 29th day of November, 1864." This is
one of the defective executions of an instrument under a
power of attorney, spoken of in the act of congress. It is alleged, however, that the following language, which appears at
the end of the instrument executed by Huntt, changes the
character of that instrument, and shows that it was not intended as a conveyance but as a simple contract of sale. The
language referred to comes immediately after the words
"with the improvements and appurtenances," and is as follows:
"And I hereby further agree in behalf of said Robert and
Mary Ransom, that they shall and will, as soon as convenient,
make and execute a proper deed of conveyance of said premises
to said Benjamin 0. Tayloe in fee simple."
We do not think this language changes the effect of the
prior portion of the instrument, nor does it show that the intention of the persoif executing it was simply to enter into a
contract of sale. He is the only one who signs it. The
instrument shows that he is executing it as an attorney in
fact and by virtue of the power of attorney annexed to the
instrument. Although he assumes therein to bargain and
sell (in legal effect to convey) to Mr. Tayloe, his heirs and
assigns, all the right, title and estate of his principals, being
a one undivided third part of the real estate in question, yet
he also agrees in the same instrument, in addition to the conveyance by himself of the title of his principals, to also obtain
from thern a deed of the same premises. This portion of the
instrument is a contract in the nature of a covenant for further
assurance. It may well be that the grantee, Mr. Tayloe, while
taking the conveyance from the attorney.in fact, and paying
the full consideration for the land, would also desire to obtain

OCTOBER TERIM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

a deed conveying the same title and executed by the parties
in person. This desire may easily be understood even upon the
-assumption that the instrument executed by virtue of the power
of attorney was intended to convey the title. Such a deed
would remove all possible question which could, in any event,
.arise based upon the fact that the conveyance was executed
by an attorney instead of by a principal. The agreement to
-obtain a conveyance from his principals is entirely consistent
with the prior portion of the instrument in which the attorney
assumes to convey the title by virtue of the power of attorney
which he annexes. If the attorney had, instead of agreeing
,on behalf of his principals that they should make and execute
-a proper deed of conveyance of the premises, agreed that he
would himself at some future time make such a deed, a different question would be presented; for in that case, taking
the whole instrument together, it might be argued that there
was no intention at that time to convey the title. But, where,
in addition to conveying the title himself by apt words, clearly
expressed, he simply agrees to also procure a proper deed
from his principals at some future time, there is nothing inconsistent in that agreement with the intention to himself
,convey the title by virtue of the power. Nor do we regard
the fact as material upon this latter point that in the acknowledgment of the instrument in question, taken by two aldermen who were ex oiffio justices of the peace, they describe
the instrument as a certain contract of sale, and certify that
"Mr. Huntt executed said contract and acknowledged the
same to be his act and deed." What the aldermen may have
regarded as the legal effect of the instrument is not of much
importance, and whether they described it as a contract of
.sale or as a conveyance cannot alter the character of the
paper itself or its legal effect.
Being of opinion that the paper was in the nature of a conveyance, we also think that the defective execution of the in-strument was cured by the act of Congress. This instrument
was executed by the attorney in fact, who acknowledged the
same to be his act and deed instead of the act and deed of his
principals, and the act of Congress provides that in such case

WILLIAMS v. PAINE.
Opinion of the Court.

the deed shall have the same effect as if such attorney in fact
had acknowledged the deed to be the deed of the grantors
(his principals). One or two other defects existed of a like
nature, that is, of a nature which might be cured by a legislative act, and which were cured by the act in question.
The statute applies where the parties intended to convey,
thought they had conveyed, and yet had not complied with
the requisites necessary to make the conveyance in all things
,effective. In such case, especially where the consideration
for the instrument has been received and retained, curative
.statutes may be passed which give validity to the defective
instruments to the same extent as was intended by the parties
Vatson v. -fercer, 8
.at the time when they were executed.
Pet. 88, 110 ; Randall v. _Eieiger, 23 Wall. 137.
The chief objection to the act, assuming that the instrument
was a conveyance, is that it does not apply in this case as
plaintiffs urge, because at the time when the act was passed
the parties claiming through this deed were not, as plaintiffs
-contend, in the actual possession of the land covered by it.
The statute declares the instrument is to have effect and
validity to pass the fee simple t6 the estate intended to be
-conveyed and to bar dower in the real estate therein mentioned "in favor of parties in actual possession, claiming
-under and through such deeds." It is said that this limitation to the parties in actual possession refers to the time
when the act was passed, and if the parties claiming under
the deed were not at that time in actual possession of the
premises, the statute has no application to them. We think
the act applies if at the time when it was passed the parties
,claiming under the defective instrument were in actual pos-session of the land, and that the act also applies if the parties
.claiming under such instrument were not in actual possession
at the time of its passage, but subsequently came into such
.possession. The act cured the defects in the instrument mentioned therein, if when it passed the parties were in actual possession, claiming under such instruments; and if thereafter
ousted they could still claim the benefit of the act even in
-an attempt to regain possession. If not in actual possession

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

when the act was passed, they could not have the benefit
thereof in an attempt to obtain possession thereafter. But
if thereafter they were in actual possession, they could defend
that possession under the act, so far as their title depended
upon defective instruments existing at the time when the
act was passed and which were of a character covered by
its terms.
We think this is a fair construction of the act, and that it
ought to be liberally construed for the purpose of obtaining
the benefits it was clearly intended to give in the case of a
defective execution of otherwise valid instruments. This
view renders it unnecessary to decide as to the validity of
the objection that these defendants were not in actual possession when the act was passed. We do not decide whether they
were or not. They were in actual and undisturbed possession
at the commencement of this suit, and they can avail themselves of the act to protect such possession and their title under
the deed in question.
(5.) The fifth objection taken we have already answered in
holding that Mrs. Ransom did, in fact, receive the purchase
price of her share in the land with full knowledge that it was
such purchase price, and thereby ratified and confirmed the
act of her attorney.
By this disposition of the whole case upon the merits we
are not to be considered as deciding that parties situated
as the plaintiffs were in this case, out of possession, can maintain an action for partition. We have not discussed that
question, and do not decide it, because it was unnecessary
on account of the views we have stated in relation to the
other aspects of the case.
We are of opinion that the complainants have failed to
make out a cause of action, and the judgment dismissing the
bill must, therefore, be
4ffirmed.

MR.

JUsTICn WHITE

in its decision.

did not sit in this case and took no part

