OCTOBER TER-, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

HOLDEN v. HARDY (No. 1).
HOLDEN v. HARDY (No. 2).
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF UTAH.
Nos. 261, 264. Argued October 21, 189. - Decided February 28, 1698.

The provisions in the act of March 30, 1896, c. 72, of Utah, providing that
" The period of employment of workingmen in all underground mines
or workings shall be eight hours per day, except in cases of emergency
where life or property is in imminent danger;" that "The period of employment of workingmen in smelters and all other institutions for the
reduction or refining of ores or metals shall be eight hours per day, except in cases of emergency where life or property is in imminent danger;"
and that "Any person, body corporate, agent, manager or employer who
shall violate any of the provisions of sections one and two of this act
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor," are a valid exercise of the
police power of the State, and do not violate the provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States by abridging
the privileges or immunities of its citizens, or by depriving them of
their property, or by denying to them the equal protection of the laws.
The cases arising under the Fourteenth Amendment are examined in detail,
and are held to demonstrate that, in passing upon the validity of state
legislation under it, this court has not failed to recognize the fact that
the law is, to a certain extent, a progressive science; that in some States
methods of procedure which, at the time the Constitution was adopted,
were deemed essential to the protection and safety of the people, or to
the liberty of the citizen, have been found to be no longer necessary;
that restrictions which had formerly been laid upon the conduct of
individuals or classes had proved detrimental to their interests; and
other classes of persons, particularly those engaged in dangerous or
unhealthy, employments, have been found to be in need of additional
protection: but this power of change is limited by the fundamental
principles laid down in the Constitution, to which each member of the
Union is bound to accede as a condition of its admission as a State.

THEsE were writs of error to review two judgments of the
Supreme Court of the State of Utah, denying applications of
the plaintiff in error, Holden, for his discharge upon two writs
of habeas corpus, and remanding him to the custody of the
sheriff of Salt Lake County.
The facts in case No. 261 were substantially as follows: On
June 20, 1896,.complaint was made to a justice of the peace of

HOLDEN v. HARDY.
Statement of -the Case.

Salt Lake City that the petitioner Holden had unlawfully employed 1cone John Anderson to work and labor as a miner in
the underground workings of the Old Jordan mine in Bingham cafion, in the county aforesaid, for the period of teh hours
each day; and said defendant, on the date aforesaid and continuously since said time, has unlawfully required said John
Anderson, under and by virtue of said employment, to work
and labor in the underground workings of the mine aforesaid,
for the period of ten hours each day, and that said employment was not in case of an emergency or where life or property
was in imminent danger, contrary," etc.
Defendant Holden, having been arrested upon a warrant
issued upon said complaint, admitted the facts set forth therein,
but said he was not guilty because he is a native-born citizen
of the United States, residing in the State of Utah; that the
said John Anderson voluntarily engaged his services for the
hours per day alleged, and that the facts charged did not constitute a crime, because the act of the State of Utah which
creates and defines the supposed offence is repugnant to the
Constitution of the United States in these respects:
"It deprives the defendant and all employers and employ~s
of the right to make contracts in a lawful way and for lawful
purposes;
"It is class legislation, and not equal or uniform in its
provisions;
"It deprives the defendant, and employers and employ~s
of the equal protection of the laws; abridges the privileges
and immunities of the defendant as a citizen of the United
States, and deprives him of his property and liberty without
due process of law."
The court, having heard the evidence, found the defendant
guilty as charged in the complaint, imposed a fine of fifty
dollars and costs, and ordered that the defendant be imprisoned in the county jail for a term of fifty-seven days, or until
such fine and costs be paid.
Thereupon petitioner sued out a writ of h abeas corpus from
the Supreme Court of the State, annexing a copy of the proceedings before the justice of the peace, and praying his dis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

charge. The Supreme Court denied his application, and remanded him to the custody of the sheriff, whereupon he sued
out this writ of error, assigning the unconstitutionality of the
law.
In the second case the complaint alleged the unlawful employment by Holden of one William Hooley to work and
labor in a certain concentrating mill, the same being an institution for the reduction of ores, for the period of twelve hours
per day. The proceedings in this case were precisely the same
as in the prior case, and it was admitted that there was no
distinction in principle between the two cases.
.Mr. eremiah M. Wilson for plaintiff in error. .Mr,. C. W.
Bennett, .Mr. 1R. -Harkness, .Mlr. A. Howat and . . IF..f.
Bradley were on his brief.
In both of these cases is involved the constitutionality of
the same statute of Utah, the only difference being that in
the first the defendant Holden was convicted of a violation of
section one of said act, while in the latter he was prosecuted
and convicted under the second section. We will, therefore,
consider them together, referring in the following statement
to the record in the first case.
I. The statute of Utah involved herein is in conflict with
the Constitution of the United States, and is not a valid exercise of the police power of the State.
Before presenting our views in detail concerning the repugnance of this statute to the Constitution of the United States,
and to the various clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment
which we think applicable to the matter in controversy, we
deem it appropriate to ask the attention of the court, at the
outset, to some of the most conspicuous of the authorities
bearing upon the general question as to the scope of this police
power, and as to the subjects relating to which it may properly
be invoked.
(a.) We have not found in any of the text-books or cases
an authoritative statement defining and limiting the exact

HOLDER v. HARDY.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

scope and range of this power. In fact, this court itself, in
the case of Stone v. Misissippi, 101 U. S. 814, has declined
to specifically define it; but in the case of -ew Yolrk v. Miln,
11 Pet. 102, 139, will be found probably as concise aid comprehensive a general definition of the term as could be given.
The court says:
"We are aware that it is at all times difficult to define any
subject with proper precision and accuracy. If this be so in
general, it is emphatically so in relation to a subject so diversified and multifarious as the one which we are now considering [the police power]. If we were to attempt it, we should
say that every law came within this description which concerned the welfare of the whole people of a State, or any
individual within it; whether it related to their rights or their
duties; whether it respected them as men or as citizens of the
State; whether in their public or private relations; whether
it related to the rights of persons or of property, of the whole
people of a State or of any individual within it."
The court, however, is careful to add that this jurisdiction
or power can only be exercised where it is not "surrendered
or restrained by the Constitution of the United States."
See also Lake View v. Rose Bill Cemetery Co., 70 Illinois,
191; Commonwealth v. Alger, 7 Cushing, 53, 84; Railroad Company v. .Busen, 95 U. S. 465; State v. Nfoyes, 47 Maine, 189,
211 ; Tho e v. Rutland & BurlingtonRailroad,27 Vermont,
149; _n re Jacobs, 98 N. Y. 98, 107; Austin v. iurray,16
Pick. 121, 126 ; Watertown v. Mayo, 109 Mass. 315, 319 ; Coe v.
ScAultz, 47 Barb. 64; In re Cheesebrough, 78 N. Y. 232.
To be valid, legislation enacted for the purpose of promoting the public health, morals or welfare must be of such
a character that it will affect and be for the benefit of the
whole community, or at least the part of it which is brought
into contact with the evils sought to be remedied. Such an
enactment must not be so limited in its terms that it can and
will, as in the present case, operate upon but one of many
classes of employers and employ~s of the same general description, living and doing business under the same general conditions, even though the occupation in which they are engaged
VOL. cLxIx-24

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

may be injurious to themselves. In other words, it must
relate and have reference to the result to the health and welfare of the community of the act or omission or the condition
sought to be prevented or remedied, and not to the result of
such act or omission to the author or person who is responsible
for such condition or engaged in the dangerous or injurious
occupation - that is, provided such person is suijuis and does
not come within the class of persons (such as women, children,
etc.) over which, as has been held in some of the States, the
State has the right, to a limited extent, to exercise control for
their own good and welfare, and thus indirectly for the welfare
of the public.
It is, therefore, not within the power of the legislature
to prevent persons who are suijuris,and otherwise perfe6tly
competent to contract, from entering into employment and
voluntarily making contracts in relation thereto perely because the employment in which they are to engage, although
perfectly legal and proper in itself, may be considered by the
legislature to be dangerous or injurious to the health of the
employ6; and if such right to contract cannot be prevented,
it certainly cannot be restricted by the legislature to suit its
own ideas of the ability of the employ6 to stand the physical
and mental strain incident to the work. The character of the
work to be performed, the number of hours a day in which
the employ6 shall work, and the amount of compensation to
be paid therefor are purely and necessarily personal matters
between the parties to the contract, and are regulated by the
terms thereof and by the will of the employer, influenced by
considerations as to the requirements of his business and the
condition of the market for his products, etc., and it is clear,
as it seems to us, that so long as the employment does not
interfere with the rights or health of others, the legislature
cannot prevent it or regulate any of its terms.
If, for any reason, the condition of the market should
become such that there was no sale or demand for the product of an iron mine, for example, and the owner, in consequence of this condition, should find that he was running his
business at a loss, it would be ridiculous to say that he would

HOLDEN v. HARDY.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

not have a perfect right to lay off some of his hands altogether,
or to work them all half time, or arbitrarily to reduce the
number of working hours of all to any extent he might think
necessary or advisable; and if he could do that, we do not'see
why he could not, for the purpose of meeting an increased
demand for the product of his mines and the competition
from other sources, or if for any reason the condition of the
market warranted it, increase the number of hours of his
workmen to ten or any other number more than eight that
they might be willing to work or contract with him for.
A case here directly in point is that of In 'e Jacobs, sujra,
where the court had under consideration a law of New York
prohibiting the manufacture of cigars and the preparation of
tobacco in any form in tenement houses, etc. In the opinion
the court says: "To justify this law it would not be sufficient
that the use qf tobacco may be injurious to some persons, or
that its manufacture may be injurious to those who are engaged
in its prefarationand manufacture; but it would have to be
injuriousto the yublic health."
(b.) But however this may be, it is well settled that, when
relating to business enterprises, the business or occupation at
which such regulations are directed must be affected with a
"public interest," and that the regulation must be for the
protection or benefit of the public generally, as we have above
contended, and not of an individual or segregated class of
individuals under the circumstances we have mentioned.
This court, in the case of -Munnv. Illinois,94 U. S. 113, 126,
defines the property that is subject to police regulation as
follows: "Property does become clothed with a public interest when used in a manner to make it of public consequence
and affect the community at large. When, therefore, one
devotes his property to a use in which the public has an
interest, he in effect grants to the public an interest in that
use, and must submit to be controlled by the public for the
common good to the extent of the interest he has thus created."
See also Cooley's Constitutional Limitations, 416, 720, (4th
ed.); Tiedman's Limitation of Police Powers, §§ 178, 179.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

In United States v. Martin, 94 U. S. 400, 403, in which
this court was called upon to construe section 3738 of the
Revised Statutes, providing that eight hours shall constitute
a day's work for employgs of the Government, it was held
that said statute was "in the nature of a direction from a
principal to his agent that eight hours is deemed to be a
proper length of time for a day's labor, and that his contracts
shall be based on that theory," but the court distinguishes
between such a direction and the principle involved in the
case at bar, as follows:
"The English statute books are full of assizes of bread and
ale, commencing as early as the reign of Henry II., and regulations of labor, and many such are to be found in the statutes
of the several States. It is stated by Adam Smith, as the law
in his day, that in Sheffield no master cutler or weaver or
hatter could have more than two apprentices at a time, and so
lately as the 8th George III. an act, which remained unrepealed until 1825, was passed, prohibiting, under severe penalties, all master taylors in London, or within five miles of it,
from giving, or their workmen from accepting, more than two
shillings seven pence half penny a day, except in the case of
general mourning." Smith's Wealth of Nations, 125, (6th
Oxford edition of 1869.) "A different theory is now almost
,universally adopted. Principals,so far as the law can give
the power, are entitled to employ as many workmen, and at
whatever degree of skill, and at whatever price they think fit,
and, except in some special cases, as of children or orphans,
the hours qf labor and the price to be paid are left to the
determination of the parties interested. The statute of the
United States does not interfere with this principle."
(c) From the foregoing authorities it would seem to result
that an enactment of the legislature, made in pursuance of the
police power of a State, or a police regulation, must be for
the purpose of enforcing a duty and to punish acts or omissions
which may be right or wrong according to the time, place or
manner of doing them- that is, the exercise of what would
otherwise be a right at a time, place or in a manner injurious
to the public, is prohibited. A general criminal law is to

HOLDEN v. HARDY.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

punish something wrong in itself, without regard to the time,
place or manner of doing it, and of course such a law, whether
enacted by original or delegated authority, is not a police
regulation.
Therefore, the violation of the maxim sic utere tuo ut
alienum non ledas covers every case in which the exercise of
the police power would be valid or legitimate; and we think
no case of a valid police regulation can be found which will
not come under this maxim, and which does not refer to the
limitation of the exercise of what, under proper circumstances,
would be a right, and only becomes a wrong because of its
excessive exercise or consequent injury to the health, welfare
or morals of the public. Police regulations are, therefore, not
enacted for the purpose of punishing wrongs, as such, but to
enforce duties to the public in respect to matters which can
only become wrongs sub modo. The right to destroy property
to stay a conflagration and in case of war, etc., is also distinguishable, and is based upon the maxim salusooyuli, suvrema
lex. So of the right of eminent domain; though exercised for
a public use, it is based on compensation. In a police regulation, there is only restraint for the public welfare.
If the constitution of the State requires the legislature to
enact laws respecting the health of miners and others, the law
to be valid must relate to the duty of the employer to his
employ~s in the respects we have indicated, and must not
interfere with the relation of the parties that rests solely on
contract.
The present law has no relation to health or safety, either
of the public or the persons affected or, if so, only in a very
remote degree; while its direct and principal effect is to
interfere with the rights and liberties of the contracting
parties.
It is apparent that if the police power extends to matters
affecting contract relations and in which the public health, etc.,
is in no way concerned, there is practically no limit to its exercise; and all business conducted in the States, whether of a
public, quas8i-public or strictly private nature, could be made
subject to such laws regulative thereof as the legislatures of

OCTOBER TERIS, 1897.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

the respective States might see fit to adopt, and the personal
liberty of the citizen, secured to him by the Constitution of
the United States, would be entirely subverted.
(d) In this connection we desire to suggest that the constitutionality of this statute must be considered in the light of
its effect upon the class of persons upon whom it operates, and
upon the relation of the prohibition therein contained to
the general public. When this is taken into consideration, it
is apparent that, even if by any possibility it could fairly be
said (as was assumed and said by the court below) that the
enforcement of the provision contained in said measure could
be conducive to the health or welfare of the employ~s enumerated therein, and in that respect is not unconstitutional, still
it is so flagrantly violative of the rights and liberties of the
citizens affected thereby -both of the employer and the employ -that it is brought in direct conflict with the Constitution of the United States, if not of the constitution of Utah,
and cannot for that reason be allowed to stand.
Therefore, even if this act can fairly be assumed to have
been a measure adopted by the legislature of Utah for the protection of the health or welfare of the class of persons affected
thereby, it is, nevertheless, unconstitutional, because, when
actually applied, it is found to be in contravention of the principles, and destructive of the rights and liberties of the citizen
to which we have above pointed. To repeat tie language of
this court in Boyd v. United States, 116 U. S. 616, 635, varying it slightly to suit the circumstances of this case, we have
no doubt that the legislature, in enacting this statute, "was
actuated by perfectly p~oper motives," but we presume that
I' the vast accumulation of public business brought before it
prevented it, on a first presentation, from noticing objections
which have become developed by time and the practicable
application of the objectionable la'v."
II. The statute in question abridges privileges and immunities of* the plaintiff in error to which he is entitled as a citizen of the United States.
The plaintiff in error in this case is a native-born citizen of

HOLDEN v. HARDY.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

the United States, and was at the time of his arrest, and now
is, a citizen of the State of Utah, and as such was and is entitled to all the privileges and immunities of citizens of the
United States as secured to them by the Constitution.
It seems to be settled by the decisions of this court, and of
many others that have had this subject under consideration,
that among the privileges and immunities secured to the
citizen by the Fourteenth Amendment is the right "to pursue
unmolested a lawful employment in a lawful manner." Live
Stock Association v. Crescent City Co., 1 Abb. U. S. 388, 389.
Incidental to this there is, of course, the further right to enter
into contracts relating to the character of the services to be
performed, the amount of compensation to be paid and
received therefor, and the period of time or the number of
hours per day required to perform such labor.
The allowa.nce to the employer of labor, and the workingman, of perfect freedom and liberty in this respect is absolutely and manifestly essential in this age of constant
progress in business affairs and of great and increasing competition, to enable the employer and laborer, alike, to maintain life and to render any legitimate employment or business
in which they may be engaged successful. Wbatever may be
the wisdom or necessity for enacting laws restrictive of the
hours of labor of women, children or orphans, or the advisability of enacting such laws with reference to the employ~s in
the various kinds of business enterprises that are held to be
affected with a public interest, it is perfectly obvious, because
of their great diversity and the character and necessities of
the different kinds of private business enterprises, that it
would be impossible to devise a law or regulation limiting the
hours of employment of such employ~s that would operate
with any degree of equality or with anything like justice upon
the employers and employ~s in all private business enterprises,
or even those of the same general class.
In the Constitution of the State of Utah itself, this distinction is recognized, and only the hours of work of employ~s of
the "state, county and municipal governments" are attempted
to be regulated thereby, the law here in question being claimed

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

to have been authorized and passed under the additional provision that "the legislature shall pass laws to provide for the
health and safety of employ~s in factories, smelters and
mines." The law, however, fails to make any such provision
with reference to employ~s in factories.
Such laws as to public employ~s are regarded by the courts
merely as directions from a principal to his agent, and as such
are held to be competent; but, in the case of private employment or labor, as so aptly stated by this court, "principals, so
far as the law can give the power, are entitled to employ as
many men, and of whatever degree of skill, and at whatever
price, they think fit, and except in some special cases, as of
children and orphans, the hours of labor and the price to be
paid are left to the determination of the parties interested."
United States v. -Martin,94 U. S. 400.
Applying the principle last stated to the present case, it cannot be said that an act making it a misdemeanor for a private
and independent mine operator to employ his workman more
than eight hours a day, except in cases of emergency where life
or property is in imminent danger, and subjecting him to fine
and imprisonment in consequence of a violation of such provision, does not Pfringe or abridge the right of both the employer and laborer, to make contracts which persons and corporations in other lines of business may make, and that it
does not thus abridge the privileges and immunities so secured
to them as citizens of the United States.
We refer particularly to some of the authorities supporting
our contention, from which it will be seen that, while the
courts do not attempt specifically and in detail to enumerate
and define all of these privileges and immunities, they are
practically unanimous in holding that the right to pursue, in a
lawful manner, a lawful vocation or trade, unmolested by laws
in any way restrictive of that right, is a privilege that is protected and secured to the citizen by the Constitution of the
United States. See Wrard v. -Maryland,12 Wall. 418, 430;
the concurring opinions of Justice Field and of Justice Bradley in Butche rs' Union Co. v. Crescent City, 111 U. S., at pages
'757 and 764 respectively; the dissenting opinion of Mr. Jus-

HOLDEN v. HARDY.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

tice Field in the Slaughterhouse cases, 16 Wall. 97; Ex parte
.Xubach,85 California, 274; In re Eight -Hour Law, 39 Pac.
Rep. 328; In re House Bill _Mo. 203, 39 Pac. Rep. 431; Leep
v. .Railway Co., 58 Arkansas, 407; State v. Goodwill, 33 West
Virginia, 179 ; TFally v. Hennedy, 2 Yerg. 554; People v. Otis,
90 N. Y. 48; Godcharles v. Wigeman, 113 Penn. St. 431;
Comnmonwealth v. Perry,155 Mass. 117; -Inre Jacobs, 98 N. Y.
98; Shaver v. Pennsylvania Company, 71 Fed. Rep. 931;
People v. .Marx, 99 N. Y. 377; People v. Gillson, 109 N. Y.
389; AMillett v. People, 117 Illinois, 294; In re Tiburcio Parrott, 1 Fed. Rep. 481; Low v. Bees Printing Co., 41 Nebraska,
127; Frorerv. People, 141 Illinois, 171.
III. This statute also violites the provision of the Fourteenth
Amendment that no State shall deprive any person of life, liberty or property without due process of law, or deny to any
person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws.
It is not necessary here to enter upon any extended analysis
of the provisions of the statute in question for the purpose of
showing how unequally it affects, and how it discriminates
against, all citizens of the State of Ttah who are engaged in
the business of mining, smelting, etc. This hag already been
done in what we have said under the head of police power.
What we have already said is sufficient to show that, under
the operation of the law, all other persons in the State, no
matter in what business or occupation they may be engaged,
are left entirely at liberty to make whatever contracts they
please in respect of the character of the work to be performed,
the amount to be paid therefor, and the number of hours that
shall constitute a day's work in all occupations which by the
law of the land are properly the subjects of contract.
The act in the case at bar, in sections I and 2, says that
eight hours shall constitute a day's work only for those who
are employed in underground mines or workings, smelters
and other institutions for the reduction or refining of ores,
and, in section 3, says that "any person, body corporate,
agent, manager or employer who shall violate any of the
provisions of sections 1 and 2 of this act shall be deemed

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

guilty of a misdemeanor." This comparatively small class of
people is in terms singled out by the legislature, made to bear
this unjustifiable and unequal burden, and deprived of liberties and rights of property that are enjoyed by every other
citizen in the State who is engaged in any of the vast number
of employments not enumerated in the act, and which by the
law of the land they are protected in the enjoyment of and
have the right in the courts to enforce.
This free and unrestricted right to engage in any calling
that is permitted under the law, and tp make necessary and
lawful contracts with reference thereto, is one of the fundamental and inalienable rights of the citizen, without which, of
course, no condition of social, commercial or financial prosperity could exist in a community or State that is in any way
dependent on other communities or States for an interchange
of commodities or commerce, and "must, therefore, be free in
this country to all alike upon the same conditions. The right
to pursue ' such callings' without let or hinderance, except that
which is applied to all persons of the same age, sex and condition, is a distinguishing privilege of citizens of the United
States, and an essential element of that freedom which they
claim as their birthright, for ' the property which every man
has is his own labor, and, as it is the original foundation of all
other property, so it is the most sacred and inviolable.'"
Adam Smith's Wealth of Nations, Book 1, c. 10. See also
Brown v. -Maryland,12 Wheat. 419, 439; Boyd v. United
States, 116 U. S.616, 635; Murray's Lessee v. HToboken Land
& Inprovement Oo., 18 How. 272, 276; Mr. Webster's Argument in Dartmouth College v. Woodward, 4 Wheat. 517, 581,
582; .Mtillett v. People, 117 Illinois, 294; In re e.aobs, 98
N. Y. 98, 105 ; Berthoif v. O'Reilly, 74 N. Y. 509, 515 ; Low
v. Bees PrintingCo., 41 Nebraska, 127, 136; Ritchie v. People,
155 Illinois, 98; .#'rorer v. People, 141 Illinois, 171; Braceville Coal Co. v. People, 155 Illinois, 98; State v. Zoomis, 115
Missouri, 307; Austen'v. Murray, 16 Pick. 121.
An examination of the cases cited will show that in Colorado, Nebraska, California and Illinois, laws substantially
similar to that in question in the case at bar have been held

HOLDEN v. HARDY.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

unconstitutional and void by the highest courts of those
States, and that in 'Massachusetts, New York, Pennsylvania,
Illinois, Ohio, Missouri, West Virginia, Maryland, Arkansas,
Texas, Vermont and many of the remaining States of the
Union, laws so nearly analogous in principle to this statute
that we deem them conclusive of the question, have likewise
been so held.
Indeed, the three essential and indispensable elements of
that perfectly free and unrestricted right of the citizen to contract with reference to all lawful pursuits in which he may
desire to engage, which is guaranteed and protected by the
Constitution of the United States, and to which we have
above pointed, namely, the right of the employer and the
employ6 to agree upon (1) the character of the services to be
performed, (2) the amount to be paid for such service, and (3)
the number of hours per day during which the service is to
continue, are constantly grouped together in the authorities,
and are manifestly so inseparably connected with each other
that the destruction or abridgment of one is a destruction or
abridgment of the whole of said right of contract; and, therefore, any decision holding that such destruction or abridgment
of one of these elements is unconstitutional must necessarily
apply to and control all questions as to the constitutionality
of the others.
We have nowhere found a decision of any court upholding
such a law as the one here involved, or any law analogous
thereto, except in the cases we have enumerated, and which
we contend are clearly distinguishable from the present case,
namely, (a) cases where the law was enacted for the purpose
of limiting the hours of employment of public employ~s, in
which case this court has held that such a law is valid because
merely in the nature of a direction from a principal to his
agent, (b)" cases where such laws are enacted with regard to
employments affected with a public interest, and (c) in the
case of statutes which, although limiting the hours of employment, are enacted for the protection of the health or safety
of women, children, insane persons and the like, which last
are generally, though not universally, regarded as a valid

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

exercise of the police power for the reasons we have already
stated.
Relying, therefore, upon these authorities, and upon the
indication of the opinion of this court above quoted from the
case of the United States v. Jfartin, 94 U. S. 400, we respectfully submit that the judgment and order of the court below
remanding plaintiff in error to the custody of the defendant,
and denying his discharge from such custody, should be
reversed.
..M Charles T: Pence for defendant in error.
M1urp'hy was on his brief.

Mr. John H.

MR. JusTicE Baowx, after making the above statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
This case involves the constitutionality of an act of the
legislature of Utah, of March 30, 1896, c. 72, entitled "An act
regulating the hours of employment in underground mines
and in smelters and ore reduction works." Session Laws of
Utah, 1896, p. 219. The following are the material provisions:
"S Ec. 1. The period of employment of workingmen in all
underground mines or -workings shall be eight hours per day,
except in cases of emergency where life or property is in
imminent danger.
"SEc. 2. The period of employment of workingmen in

smelters and all other institutions for the reduction or refining of ores or metals shall be eight hours per day, except in
cases of emergency where life or property is in imminent
danger.
"SE . 3. Any person, body corporate, agent, manager or

employer, who shall violate any of the provisions of sections
one and two of this act, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor."
The Supreme Court of Utah was of opinion that if authority
in the legislature were needed for the enactment of the statute
in question, it was found in that part of article 16 of the constitution of the State, which declared that "the legislature shall

HOLDENT v. HARDY.
Opinion of the Court.

pass laws to provide for the health and safety of employ~s in
factories, smelters and mines." As the article deals exclusively
with the rights of labor, it is here reproduced in full as exhibiting the "authority under which the legislature acted, and
as throwing light upon its intention in enacting the statute in
question.
"SEC. 1. The rights of labor shall have just protection
through laws calculated to promote the industrial welfare of
the State.
"SEC. 2. The legislature shall provide by law for a board
of labor, conciliation and arbitration which shall fairly represent the interests of both capital and labor. The board shall
perform duties and receive compensation as prescribed by law.
"SEC. 3. The legislature shall prohibit:
"1. The employment of women, or of children under the
age of fourteen years, in underground mines.
"2. The contracting of convict labor.
"3. The labor of convicts outside prison grounds, except on
public works under the direct control of the State.
"4. The political and commercial control of employ~s.
"SEc. 4. The exchange of blacklists by railroad companies,
or other corporations, associations or persons is prohibited.
"SEc. 5. The right of action to recover damages for injuries resulting in death shall never be abrogated, and the
amount recoverable shall not be subject to any statutory
limitation.
"SEc. 6. Eight hours shall constitute a day's work on all
works or undertakings carried on or aided by the State,
county or municipal governments; and the legislature shall
pass laws to provide for the health and safety of employ~s
in factories, smelters and mines.
"SEC. 7. The legislature, by appropriate legislation, shall
provide for the enforcement of the provisions of this article."
The validity of the statute in question is, however, challenged upon the ground of an alleged violation of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States,
in that it abridges the privileges or immunities of citizens
of the United States; deprives both the employer and the

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

laborer of his property without due process of law, and denies
to them the equal protection of the laws. As the three questions of abridging, their immunities, depriving them of their
property, and denying them the protection of the laws, are so
connected that the authorities upon each are, to a greater or
less extent, pertinent to the others, they may properly be considered together.
Prior to the adoption of the Fourteenth Amendment there
was a similar provision against deprivation of life, liberty or
property without due process of law incorporated in the Fifth
Amendment; but as the first eight amendments to the Constitution were obligatory only upon Congress, the decisions of
this court under this amendment have but a partial application to the Fourteenth Amendment, which operates only upon
the action of the several States. The Fourteenth Amendment,
which was finally adopted July 28, 1868, largely expanded
the power of the Federal courts and Congress, and for the
first time authorized the former to declare invalid all laws and
judicial decisions of the States abridging the rights of citizens
or denying them the benefit of due process of law.
This amendment was first called to the attention of this
court in 1872, in an attack upon the constitutionality of a'law
of the State of Louisiana, passed in 1869, vesting in a slaughterhouse company therein named the sole and exclusive privilege of conducting and carrying on a live-stock landing and
slaughter-house business, within certain limits specified in the
act, and requiring all animals intended for sale and slaughter
to be landed at their wharves or landing places. Slaughterh4ouse cases, 16 Wall. 36. While the court in that case recognized the fact that the primary object of this amendment was
to secure to the colored race, then recently emancipated, the
full enjoyment of their freedom, the further fact that it was
not restricted to that purpose was, admitted both in the prevailing and dissenting opinions, and the validity of the act
was sustained as a proper police regulation for the health and
comfort of the people. A majority of the cases which have
since arisen have turned not upon a denial to the colored race
of rights therein secured to them, but upon alleged discrimina-

HOLDEN v. HARDY.
Opinion of the Court.

tions in matters entirely outside bf the political relations of
the parties aggrieved.
These cases may be divided, gene:ally, into two classes:
First, where a state legislature, or a state court, is alleged to
have unjustly discriminated in favor of or against a particular
individual or class of individuals, as distinguished from the
rest of the community, or denied them the benefit of due
process of law; second, where the legislature has changed its
general system of jurisprudence by abolishing what had been
previously considered necessary to the proper administration
of justice, or tie protection of the individual.
Among those of the first class, which, for the sake of brevity,
may be termed unjust discriminations, are those wherein the
colored race was alleged to have been denied the right of
representation upon juries, Strauder v. West Virgivia, 100
U. S. 303; Virginia v. Rives, 100 U. S. 313; Exs arte Yirginia, 100 U. S. 339; NYeal v. Delaware, 103 U. S. 370; Bush
v. Hentukey, 107 U. S. 110;. Gibson v. Mississippi, 162 U. S.
565; as well as those wherein the State was charged with
oppressing and unduly discriminating against persons of the
Chinese race, Barbier v. Connolly, 113 U. S. 27; Soon Hing
v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356,
v. Crowley, 113 U. S. 703; Tiek eFo
and hy Lung v. FTreeman, 92 U. S. 275; and those wherein
it was sought under this amendment to enforce the right of
women to suffrage and to admission to the learned professions,
Minor v. Jappersett,21 Wall. 162; Bradwell v. The State, 16
Wall. 130.
To this class are also referable all those cases wherein the
state courts were alleged to have denied to particular individuals the benefit of due process of law secured to them by the
statutes of the State, *In re Converse, 137 U. S. 621; Arrowsmith v. Harmoning, 118 U. S. 191, as well as that other
large class, to be more specifically mentioned hereafter,
wherein the state legislature was charged with having transcended its proper police power in assuming to legislate for
the health or morals of the community.
Cases arising under the second class, wherein a State has
chosen to change its methods of trial to meet a popular de-

OCTOBER TERI, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

mand for simpler and more expeditious forms of administering
justice, are much less numerous, though of even greater importance, than the others. A reference to a few of these cases
may not be inappropriate in this connection. Thus, in Tralker
v. Sauvinet, 92 U. S. 90, which was ail action brought by
a colored man against the keeper of a coffee-house in New
Orleans for refusing him refreshments in violation of the constitution of the State securing to the colored race equal rights
and privileges in such cases, a statute of the State provided
that such cases should be tried by jury, if either party demanded it, but if the jury failed to agree the case should be
submitted to the judge, who should decide the same. It was
held that a trial by jury was not a privilege or immunity of
citizenship which the States were forbidden to abridge, but
the requirement of due process of law was met if the trial
was had according to the settled course of judicial proceedings. "Due process of law," said Chief Justice Waite, "is
process due according to the law of the land. This process
in the States is regulated by the law of the State." This law
was held not to be in conflict with the Constitution of the
United States.
Similar rulings with regard to the necessity of a jury, or of
a judicial trial in special proceedings, were made in Henna'd v. Louisiana,92 U. S. 480; JlMeillen. v. Anderson, 95
U. S.37; .Davidson v. _Bew Orleans, 96 U. S.97 ; TFalston v.
_Nevin, 128 U. S.578 ; Exoparte Wall, 107 U. S.265.
In' Yurtado v. California,110 U. S. 516, it was held that
due process of law did not necessarily require an indictment
by a grand jury in a prosecution by a State for murder. The
constitution of California authorized prosecutions for felonies
by information, after examination and commitment by a
magistrate, without an indictment by a grand jury, in the
discretion of the legislature. It was held that conviction
upon such an information, followed by sentence of death, was
not illegal under the Fourteenth Amendment.
In Hffayes v. Missouri, 120 'U. S. 68, it was held that a statute of a State which provided that, in capital cases, in cities
having a population of over 100,000 inhabitants, the State

HOLDEN v. HARDY.
Opinion of the Court.

shall be allowed fifteen peremptory challenges to jurors, while
elsewhere in the State it was allowed only eight peremptory
challenges, did not deny to a person tried for murder, in a city
containing over 100,000 inhabitants, the equal protection of
the laws enjoined by the Fourteenth Amendment,, and that
there was no error in refusing to limit the State's peremptory
challenges to eight.
In .issouri Railway Co. v. .Mackey, 127 U. S. 205, it was
said that a statute in Kansas abolishing the fellow-servant
doctrine as applied to railway accidents, did not deny to railroads the equal protection of the laws, and was not in conflict with the Fourteenth Amendment. The same ruling was
made with reference to statutes requiring railways to erect
and maintain fences and cattle-guards, and make them liable
in double the amount of damages claimed for the want of
them.
In lallnger v. Davis, 146 U. S. 314, it was held that a
state statute conferring upon an accused person the right to
waive a trial by jury and to elect to be tried by the court,
and conferring power upon the court to try the accused in
such case, was not a violation of the due process clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment.
So, in I7n re Kemnmler, 136 U. S. 436, it was held that the law
providing for capital punishment by electricity was not repugnant to this amendment. And in Duncan v. Missouri, 152
U. S. 377, it was said that the prescribing of different modes
of procedure and the abolition of courts, and the creation of
new ones, leaving untouched all the substantial protections with
which the existing law surrounds persons accused of crime, are
not considered within the constitutional inhibition. See also
Medley, Petitioner,134: U. S. 160, and .H~olden,v. Minnesota,
137 U. S. 483.

An examination of both these classes of cases under the
Fourteenth Amendment will demonstrate that, in passing
upon the validity of state legislation under that amendment,
this court has not failed to recognize the fact that the law is,
to a certain extent, a progressive science; that in some of the
States methods of procedure, which at the time the ConstituVOL.

CLxIX-25

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

tion was adopted were deemed essential to the protection and
safety of the people, or to the liberty of the citizen, have been
found to be no longer necessary; that restrictions which had
formerly been laid upon the conduct of individuals, or of
classes of individuals, had proved detrimental to their interests;
while, upon the other hand, certain other classes of persons,
particularly those engaged in dangerous or unhealthful employments, have been found to be in need of additional protection. Even before the adoption of the Constitution, much
had been done toward mitigating the severity of the common
law, particularly in the administration of its criminal branch.
The number of capital crimes, in this country at least, had
been largely decreased. Trial by ordeal and by battle had
never existed here, and had fallen into disuse in England.
The earlier practice of the common law, which denied the
benefit of witnesses to a person accused of felony, had been
abolished by statute, though so far as it deprived him of the
assistance of counsel and compulsory process for the attendance of his witnesses, it had not been changed in England.
But to the credit of her American colonies, let it be said that
so oppressive a doctrine had never obtained a foothold there.
The present century has originated legal reforms of no less
importance. The whole fabric of special pleading, once
thought to be necessary to the elimination of the real issue
between the parties, has crumbled to pieces. The ancient
tenures of real estate have been largely swept away, and land
is now transferred ahnost as easily and cheaply as personal
property. Married women have been emancipated from the
control of their husbands and placed upon a practical equality
with them with respect to the acquisition, possession and
transmission of property. Imprisonment for debt has been
abolished. Excmptipns from execution have been largely
added to, and in most of the States homesteads are rendered
incapable of seizure and sale upon forced process. Witnesses
are no longer incompetent by reason of interest, even though
they be parties to the litigation. Indictments have been simplified, and an indictment for the most serious of crimes is
now the simplest of all. In several of the States grand

HOLDEN v. HARDY.
Opinion of the Court.

juries, formerly the only safeguard against a malicious prosecution, have been largely abolished, and in others the rule of
unanimity, so far as applied to civil cases, has given way to
verdicts rendered by a three fourths majority. This case does
not call for an expression of opinion as to the wisdom of'these
changes, or their validity under the Fourteenth Amendment,
although the substitution of prosecution by information in lieu
of indictment was recognized as valid in Hurtado v. Cali.fornia,110 U. S. 516. They are mentioned only for the purpose of calling attention to the probability that other changes
of no less importance may be made in the future, and that
while the cardinal principles of justice are immutable, the
methods by which justice is administered are subject to constant fluctuation, and that the Constitution of the United
States, which is necessarily and to a large extent inflexible
and excee.dingly difficult of amendment, should not be so construed as to deprive the States of the power to so amend their
laws as to make them conform to the wishes of the citizens as
they may deem best for the public welfare without bringing
them into conflict with the supreme law of the land.
Of course, it is impossible to forecast the character or extent
of these changes, but in view of the fact that from the day
Magna Charta was signed to the present moment, amendments to the structure of the law have been made with increasing frequency, it is impossible to suppose that they will
not continue, and the law be forced to adapt itself to new
conditions of society, and, particularly, to the new relations
between employers and employ6s, as they arise.
Similar views have been heretofore expressed by this court.
Thus in the case of _Missouri v. Lewis, 101 U. S. 22, 31, it was
said by Mr. Justice Bradley: "We might go still further and
say, with undoubted truth, that there is nothing in the Constitution to prevent any State from adopting any system of
laws or judicature it sees fit for all or any part of its territory.
If the State of Nfew York, for example, should see fit to
adopt the civil law and its method of procedure for New
York City and the surrounding counties, and the common law and its methods of procedure for the rest of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

State, there is nothing in the Constitution of the United States
to prevent its doing so. This would not, of itself, within the
meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment, be a denial to any
person of the equal protection of the laws. . . . The
Fourteenth Amendment does not profess to secure to all
persons in the United States the benefit of the same laws and
the same remedies. Great diversities in these respects may
exist in two States separated only by an imaginary line.
On one side of this line there may be a right of trial by
jury, and on the other side no such right. Each State prescribes its own modes of judicial proceeding. If diversities
of laws and judicial proceedings may exist in the several
States without violating the equality clause in the Fourteenth
Amendment, there is no solid reason why there may not be
such diversities in different parts of the same State."
The same subject was also elaborately discussed by Mr. Justice Matthews in delivering the opinion of this court in Hu2tado v. California,110 U. S. 516, 530: "This flexibility and
capacity for growth and adaptation is the peculiar boast and
excellence of the common law. . . . The Constitution of
the United States was ordained, it is true, by descendants
of Englishmen, who inherited the traditions of English law
and history; but it was made for an undefined and expanding
future, and for a people gathered and to be gathered from
many nations and of many tongues. And while we take just
pride in the principles and institutions of common law, we are
not to forget that in lands where other systems of jurisprudence prevail, the ideas and processes of civil justice are
also not unknown. Due process of law, in spite of the absolutism of continental governments, is not alien to that code
which survived the Roman Empire as the foundation of
modern civilization in Europe, and which has given us that
fundamental maxim of distributive justice - suum cuique
tribuere. There is nothing in Magna Charta, rightly construed as a broad charter of public right and law, which
ought to exclude the best ideas of all systems and of every
age; and as it was the characteristic principle of the common
law to draw its inspiration from every fountain of justice, we

HOLDEN v. HARDY.
Opinion of the Court.

are not to assume that the sources of its supply have been
exhausted. On the contrary, we should expect that the new
and various experiences of our own situation and system will
mould and shape it into new and not less useful forms." We
have seen no reason to doubt the soundness of these views.
In the future growth of the nation, as heretofore, it is not impossible that Congress may see fit to annex territories whose
jurisprudence is that of the civil law. One of the considerations moving to such annexation might be the very fact that
the territory so annexed should enter the Union with its
traditions, laws and systems of administration unchanged. It
would be a narrow construction of the Constitution to require
them to abandon these, or to substitute for a system, which
represented the growth of generations of inhabitants, a jurisprudence with which they had had no previous acquaintance
or sympathy.
We do not wish, however, to be understood as holding that
this power is unlimited. While the people of each State may
doubtless adopt such systems of laws as best conform to their
own traditions and customs, the people of the entire country
have laid down in the Constitution of the United States certain fundamental principles to which each member of the
Union is bound to accede as a condition of its admission as a
State. Thus, the United States are bound to guarantee to
each State a republican form of government, and, the tenth
section of the first article contains certain other specified limitations upon the power of the several States, the object of
which was to secure to Congress paramount authority with
respect to matters of universal concern. In addition, the
Fourteenth Amendment contains a sweeping provision forbidding the States from abridging the privileges and immunities of citizens of the United States, and denying them the
benefit of due process or equal protection of the laws.
This court has never attempted to define with precision the
words "due process of law," nor is it necessary to do so in
this case. It is sufficient to say that there are certain' immutable principles of justice which inhere in the very idea of free
government which no member of the Union may disregard,

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

as that no man shall be condemned in his person or property
without due notice and an opportunity of being heard in his
defence. What shall constitute due process of law was perhaps as well stated by Mr. Justice Curtis in Hug-ray's Lessees
v. Hfoboken Land Co., 18 How. 272, 276, as anywhere. He
said: "The Constitution contains no description of those processes which it was intended to allow or forbid. It does not
even declare what principles are to be applied to ascertain
whether it be due process. It is manifest that it was not left
to the legislative power to enact any process which might be
devised. The article is a restraint on the legislative as well
as on the executive and judicial powers of the Government,
and cannot be so construed as to leave Congress free to make
any process ' due process of law,' by its mere will. To what
principles, then, are we to resort to ascertain whether this
process, enacted by Congress, is due process? To this the
answer must be twofold. We must examine the Constitution
itself, to see whether this process be in conflict with any of
its provisions. If not found to be so, we must look to those
settled usages and modes of proceeding existing in the common and statute law of England, before the emigration of our
ancestors, and which are shown not to have been unsuited to
their civil and political condition by having been acted on by
them after the settlement of this country."
It was said by Mr. Justice Miller, in delivering the opinion
of this court in Davidson v. New Orleans, 96 U. S. 97, that
the words "law of the land," as used in Magna Charta, implied a conformity with the "ancient and customary laws of
the English people," and that it was wiser to ascertain their
intent and application by the "gradual process of judicial
inclusion and exclusion as the cases presented for decision
shall require, with the reasoning on which such decisions may
be founded." Recognizing the difficulty in defining, with
exactness, the phrase "due process of law," it is certain that
these words imply a conformity with natural and inherent
principles of justice, and forbid that one man's property, or
right to property, shall be taken for the benefit of another, or
for the benefit of the State, without compensation; and that

HOLDEN v. HARDY.
Opinion of the Court.

no one shall be condemned in his person or property without
an opportunity of being heard inhis own defence.
As the possession of property, of which a person cannot be
deprived, doubtless implies that such property may be acquired, it is safe to say that a state law which undertakes to
deprive any class of persons of the general power to acquire
property would also be obnoxious to the same provision.
Indeed, we may go a step further, and say that, as property can
only be legally acquired as between living persons by contract,
a general prohibition against entering into contracts with respect to property, or having as their object the acquisition of
property, would be equally invalid.
The latest utterance of this court upon this subject is contained in the case of Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165 U. S. 578,
591, in which it was held that an act of Louisiana which prohibited individuals within the State from making contracts of
insurance with corporations doing business in New York, was
a violation of the Fourteenth Amendment. In delivering the
opinion of the court, Mr. Justice Peckham remarked: "In
the privilege of pursuing an ordinary calling or trade, and of
acquiring holding and selling property, must be embraced the
right to make all proper contracts in relation thereto, and,
although it may be conceded that this right to contract in
relation to persons or property, or to do business within the
jurisdiction of the State, may be regulated and sometimes
prohibited, when the contracts or business conflict with the
policy of the State as contained in its statutes, yet the power
does not and cannot extend to prohibiting a citizen from making contracts of the nature involved in this case outside of the
limits and jurisdiction of the State, and which are also to be
performed outside of such jurisdiction."
This right of contract, however, is itself subject to certain
limitations which the State may lawfully impose in the exercise of its police powers. While this power is inherent in all
governments, it has doubtless been greatly expanded in its
application during the past century, owing to an enormous
increase in the number of occupations which are dangerous,
or so far detrimental to the health of employ6s as to demand

OCTOBER TERIA,

1897.

Opinion of the Court.

special precautions for their well-being and protection, or the
safety of adjacent property.
While this court has held,
notably in the cases -Davidsonv. -YVew Orleans, 96 U. S. 97,
and Yick TFo v. -Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356, that the police
power cannot be put forward as an excuse for oppressive and
unjust legislation, it may be lawfully resorted to for the purpose of preserving the public health, safety or morals, or the
abatement of public nuisances, and a large discretion "is
necessarily vested in the legislature to determine not only
what the interests of the public require, but what measures
are necessary for the protection of such interests." .Lawton v.
Steele, 152 U. S. 133, 136.
The extent and limitations upon this power are admirably
stated by Chief Justice Shaw in the following extract from
his opinion in Commonwealth v. Alger, 7 Cush. 53, 81:
"We think it a settled principle, growing out of the nature
of well ordered civil society, that every holder of property,
however absolute and unqualified may be his title, holds it
under the implied liability that its use may be so regulated,
that it shall not be injurious to the equal enjoyment of others
having an equal right to the enjoyment of their property, nor
injurious to the rights of the community. All property in
this Commonwealth, as well that in the interior as that bordering on tide waters, is derived directly or indirectly from
the Government, and held subject to those general regulations, which are necessary to the common good and general
welfare. Rights of property, like all other social and conventional rights, are subject to such reasonable limitations in
their enjoyment, as shall prevent them from being injurious,
and to such reasonable restraints and regulations established
by law as the legislature, under the governing and controlling
power vested in them by the Constitution, may think necessary and expedient."
This power legitimately exercised can neither be limited by
contract nor bartered away by legislation.
While this power is necessarily inherent in every form of
government, it was, prior to the adoption of the Constitution,
but sparingly used in this country. As we were then almost

IOLDEN v. HARDY.
Opinion of the Court.

purely an agricultural people, the occasion for any special protection of a particular class did not exist. Certain profitable
employments, such as lotteries and the sale of intoxicating
liquors, which were then considered to be legitimate, have since
fallen under the ban of public opinion, and are now either altogether prohibited, or made subject to stringent police regulations. The power to do this has been repeatedly affirmed by
this court. Stone v. Mississippi,101 U. S. 814; Douglas v. Kentucky, 168 U. S. 488; Giozza v. Tiernan, 148 U. S. 657; lKidd
v. Pearson,128 U. S. 1; Crowley v. CAristensen, 137 U. S. 86.
While the business of mining coal and manufacturing iron
began in Pennsylvania as early as 1716, and in Virginia, North
Carolina and AIassachusetts even earlier than this, both mining and manufacturing were carried on in such a limited way
and by such primitive methods that no special laws were considered necessary, prior to the adoption of the Constitution,
for the protection of the operatives; but, in the vast proportions which these industries have since assumed, it has been
found that they can no longer be carried on with due regard
to the safety and health of those engaged in them, without
special protection against the dangers necessarily incident to
these employments. In consequence of this, laws have been
enacted in most of the States designed to meet these exigencies and to secure the safety of persons peculiarly exposed
to these dangers. Within this general category are ordinances
providing for fire escapes for hotels, theatres, factories and
other large buildings, a municipal inspection of boilers,
and appliances designed to secure passengers upon railways
and steamboats against the dangers necessarily incident to
these methods of transportation. In States where manufacturing is carried on to a large extent, provision is made for the
protection of dangerous machinery against accidental contact,
for the cleanliness and ventilation of working rooms, for the
guarding of well holes, stairways, elevator shafts and for the
employment of sanitary appliances. In others, where mining
is the principal industry, special provision is made for the
shoring up of dangerous walls, for ventilation shafts, bore
holes, escapement shafts, means of signalling the surface, for

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

the supply of fresh air and the elimination, as far as possible, of
dangerous gases, for safe means of hoisting and lowering cages,
for a limitation upon the number of persons permitted to enter
a cage, that cages shall be covered, and that there shall be fences
and gates around the top of shafts, besides other similar precautions. Digest of Stats. of Arkansas, 1149; California, Stats.
March 16, 1872, c. 305; -March 27, 1874, c. 498; March 14, 1881,
c. 79; March 8, 1893, c. 74; Colorado, Mills' Anno. Stats. v. 3
Sup. c. 85; Gen. Stats. of Conn. 1888, sees. 2645 to 2647, 2263
to 2272; Rev. Stats. Illinois, 1889, p. 980; Thornton's Indiana
Stats. 1897, c. 98, p. 1652; Gen. Stats. of Kansas, 1897, vol. 2,
pp. 813 to 824; Kentucky Stats. (Barbour & Carroll) c. 88,
) . 951; Mass. Acts May 21, 1891, c. 350; March 19, 1892, c. 83;
April 25, 1892, c. 210; June 8, 1892, c. 352; June 11, 1892,
c. 357; June 3, 1893, c. 406; June 22,1894, c. 508; March 16,
1895, c. 129; Michigan (fowells' Anno. Stats.), sees. 9209b et
seq.; Gen. Stats. of New Jersey, v. 2, pp. 1900 et seq.; Rev. Stat.
Code and Gen. Laws of New York, vol. 2, p. 2069; Brightley's
Purdon's Digest, Sup. Pennsylvania, 1885-1887, pp. 2241 et seq.
These statutes have been repeatedly enforced by the courts of
the several States; their validity assumed, and, so far as we are
informed, they have been uniformly held to be constitutional.
In -Danielsv. Ifilgar'd, 77 Illinois, 640, it was held that
the legislature had power under the Constitution to establish reasonable police regulations for the operating of mines
and collieries, and that an act providing for the health and
safety of persons employed in coal mines, which required the
owner or agent of every coal mine or colliery employing ten
men or more, to make or cause to be made an accurate map
or plan of the workings of such coal mine or colliery, was not
unconstitutional; and that the question whether certain requirements are a part of a system of police regulations adopted
to aid in the protection of life and health, was properly one
of legislative determination, and that a court should not
lightly interfere with such determination unless the legislature had manifestly transcended its province. See also LitchJield .Coal Co. v. Taylor, 81 Illinois, 590.
In Commonwealth v. Bonnell et al., 8 Phila. 534, a law,

HOLDEN v. HARDY.
Opinion of the Court.

providing for the ventilation of coal mines, for speaking tubes
and the protection of cages, was held to be constitutional
and subject to strict enforcement. Commonwealth v. Conyngham, 66 Penn. St. 99 ; .Durant v. Lexingtom, Coal -Mining Co.,
97 Mlissouri, 62.
But if it be within the power of a legislature to adopt such
means for the protection of the lives of its citizens, it is difficult to see why precautions may not also be adopted for the
protection of their health and morals. It is as much for the
interest of the State that the public health should be preserved as that life should be made secure. With this end
in view quarantine laws have been enacted in most if not all
of the States; insane asylums, public hospitals and institutions
for the care and education of the blind established, and special
measures taken for the exclusion of infected cattle, rags and
decayed fruit. In other States laws have been enacted limiting the hours during which women and children shall be
employed in factories; and while their constitutionality, at
least as applied to women, has been doubted in some of the
States, they have been generally upheld. Thus, in the case of
Commonwealth v. Harnilton.ManufacturingCo., 120 Mass. 383,
it was held that a statute prohibiting the employment of all
persons under the age of eighteen, and of all women laboring
in any manufacturing establishment more than sixty hours per
week, violates no contract of the Commonwealth implied in
the granting of a charter to a manufacturing company nor any
right reserved under the Constitution to any individual citizen, and may be maintained as a health or police regulation.
Upon the principles above stated, we think the act in question may be sustained as a valid exercise of the police power
of the State. The enactment does not profess to limit the
hours of all workmen, but merely those who are employed in
underground mines, or in the smelting, reduction or refining
of ores or metals. These employments, when too long pursued, the legislature has judged to be detrimental to the health
of the employ6s, and, so long as there -are reasonable grounds
for believing that this is so, its decision upon this subject cannot be reviewed by the Federal courts.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

While the general experience of mankind may justify us
in believing that men may engage in ordinary employments
more than eight hours per day without injury to their health,
it does not follow that labor for the same length of time is
innocuous when carried on beneath the surface of the earth,
where the operative is deprived of fresh air and sunlight, and
is frequently subjected to foul atmosphere and a very high
temperature, or to the influence of noxious gases, generated
by the processes of refining or smelting.
We concur in the following observations of the Supreme
Court of Utah in this connection in its opinion in lNo. 2:
"The conditions with respect to health of laborers in underground mines doubtless differ from those in which they labor
in smelters and other reduction works on the surface. Unquestionably the atmosphere and other conditions in mines
and reduction works differ. Poisonous gases, dust and impalpable substances arise and float in the air in stamp mills,
smelters and other works in which ores containing metals,
combined with arsenic or other poisonous elements or agencies, are treated, reduced and refined, and there can be no
doubt that prolonged effort day after day, subject to such
conditions and agencies, will produce morbid, noxious and
often deadly effects in the human system. Some organisms
and systems will resist and endure such conditions and effects
longer than others. It may be said that labor in such conditions must be performed. Granting that, the period of labor
each day should be of a reasonable length. Twelve hours
per day would be less injurious than fourteen, ten than twelve
and eight than ten. The legislature has named eight. Such
a period was deemed reasonable. . . . The law in question is confined to the protection of that class of people engaged in labor in underground mines, and in smelters and
other works wherein ores are reduced and refined. This law
applies only to the classes subjected by their employment to
the peculiar conditions and effects attending underground
mining and work in smelters, and other works for the reduction
and refining of ores. Therefore it is not necessary to discuss
or decide whether the legislature can fix the hours of labor

HOLDEN v. HARDY.
Opinion of the Court.

in other employments. Though reasonable doubts may exist
as to the power of the legislature to pass a law, or as to
whether the law is calculated or adapted to promote the
health, safety or comfort of the people, or to secure good
order or promote the general welfare, we must resolve them
in favor of the right of that.department of government."
The legislature has also recognized the fact, which the
experience of legislators in many States has corroborated,
that the proprietors of these establishments and their operatives do not stand upon an equality, and that their interests
are, to a certain extent, conflicting. The former naturally desire to obtain as much labor as possible from their employ~s,
while the latter are often induced by the fear of discharge
to conform to regulations which their judgment, fairly exercised, would pronounce to be detrimental to their health or
strength. In other words, the proprietors lay down the rules
and the laborers are practically constrained to obey them.
In such cases self-interest is often an unsafe guide, and the
legislature may properly interpose its authority.
It may not be improper to suggest in this connection that
although the prosecution in this case was against the employer
of labor, who apparently under the statute is the only one
liable, his defence is not so much that his right to contract has
been infringed upon, but that the act works a peculiar hardship to his employ~s, whose right to labor as long as they
please is alleged to be thereby violated. The argument would
certainly come with better grace and greater cogency from
the latter class. But the fact that both parties are of full
age and competent to coitract does not necessarily deprive
the State of the power to interfere where the parties do not
stand upon an equality, or where the public health demands
that one party to the contract shall be protected against himself. "The State still retains an interest in his welfare, however reckless he may be. The whole is no greater than the
sum of all the parts, and when the individual health, safety
and welfare are sacrificed or neglected, the State must
suffer."
We have no disposition to criticise the many authorities

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Syllabus.

which hold that state statutes restricting the hours of labor
are unconstitutional. Indeed, we are not called upon to express an opinion upon this subject. It is sufficient to say of
them, that they have no application to cases where the legislature had adjudged that a limitation is necessary for the
preservation of the health of employ~s, and there are reasonable grounds for believing that such determination is supported by the facts. The question in each case is whether
the legislature has adopted the statute in exercise of a reasonable discretion, or whether its action be a mere excuse for an
unjust discrimination, or the oppression, or spoliation of a particular class. The distinction between these two different
classes of enactments cannot be better stated than by a comparison of the views of this court found in the opinions in
Barbier v. Connolly, 113 U. S. 27, and Soon ling v. Crowley,
113 U. S. 703, with those later expressed in tick TFo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356.
We are of opinion that the act in question was a valid exercise of the police power of the State, and the judgments of
the Supreme Court of Utah are, therefore,
4Afflred.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER and MR. JUsTIcE PEcxuA.I dissented.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION v. MEECH.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 191. Argued January12, 1898. -Decided

February 29, 1598.

In the District of Columbia it is the rule that when, upon a purchase of
real estate the conveyance of the legal title is to one person while the
consideration is paid by another, an implied or resulting trust arises,
which may be shown by parol proof; and the grantee in the conveyance
will be held, on such evidence, as trustee for the party from whom the
consideration proceeds, whose rights will be enforced as against those
claiming under the record title.

