OCTOBER TERVr, 1897.
Syllabus.

examination by a local board as to their fitness for their
positions, or to prescribe the mode of heating passenger cars
in such trains. Smith v.Alabama, 124 U. S. 465 ; MNashville &c.
Railway v. Alabama, 128 U. S. 96; Hew York, _New Raven &
Hartford Railroad v. 29'ew York, 165 U. S. 628. See also
*Vestern Union Telegraph Co. v. James, 162 U. S. 650; Rennington v. Georgia, 163 U. S. 299; Gladson v. Minnesota,
166 U. S. 427'."
These views dispose of the substantial questions which the
case presents, for the contention which arises on the concluding sentences of the statute, imposing upon a carrier a duty
where the loss has not happened on the carrier's own line to
inform the shipper of this fact, is but a regulation manifestly
within the power of the State to adopt.
AIirmed.

UNITED STATES v. GARLINGER.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 166. Argued January 4, 5, 1898. -Decided

February 21, 1898.

Article 420 of the Treasury Regulations, providing that night watchmen
shall be divided into two watches as nearly as possible, both watches to
perform duty every night, and empowering the surveyor of the port to
make such changes in the division of the watches as he may deem expedient, and to appoint the hours of duty for different watches; and
that when it is necessary to assign a night watchman to a vessel, or to
any other all night charge, the night watchman so assigned must remain
on the vessel or on his charge until relieved, and will be excused from
performing duty the following night, does not authorize the payment of
an extra day's work to a night watchman so employed during the whole
night, and again put upon duty in the following night.
It is not possible for the Secretary of the Treasury, by passing regulations,
to divide a day's service into parts, and to attach to each part the pay
for a full day's work.
Where payments for work done in Government employ are made frequently
and through a considerable period of time, and are received without
objection or protest, and where there is no pretence of fraud or of circumstances constituting duress, it is legitimate to infer that such pay-

UNITED STATES v. GARLINGER.
Statement of the Case.
ments were made and received on the understanding of both parties that
they were made in full; and such a presumption is much" strengthened
if the employ6 waits two years after the expiration of his service before
making any demand for further compensation.

Tnis was an action brought by Dixon N. Garlinger, in the
Court of Claims, against the United States, wherein he ought
to recover for alleged extra service rendered by him while in
the employ of the United States. The trial court found the
facts to be as follows:
I. The claimant, a citizen of the United States, was appointed, by the collector of the port of Baltimore, a night
inspector in the customs service at Baltimore in 1882. He
took the oath of office and entered upon the discharge of the
duties of night inspector of customs on April 1, 1882, and continued in office until August 25, 1886, a period of 1608 days.
I. During the above-named period the claimant was paid
for 1608 days, of which 1353 payments were for night service
when he was present rendering actual service, and 255 were
for night service when he was absent and off duty.
III. During the 1353 days of night service the claimant was
required to perform duty as night inspector from sunset to
sunrise and until relieved by the day inspector, the length of
the night service consequently varying, and sometimes extending from 5 P.m. of one day until 10 A.M. of the succeeding
day. During this time the claimant was not allowed to be off
duty on the succeeding night, after having been on duty two
watches, except in the 255 instances set forth in Finding II,
when he was off duty and received pay. That is to say, he
performed the duties of both the first and second watch on
1098 nights without additional compensation and without
being allowed to be off duty on any alternate night.
IV. The petition not having been filed until August.2, 1888,
144: days of the number last above stated, are barred by the
statute of limitations, leaving 954 days as the subject of the
present suit.
V. The claimant objected to his superior officer, the surveyor of the port, against his being required to perform the
duties of both watches in one night without being excused

OCTOBER TERMXf, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

from the performance of duty on the following night, and he
subsequently remonstrated at various times.
VI. At the time of his entering the service as night inspector he was furnished by his superior officers with a copy
of the regulations promulgated by the Secretary of the Treasury for his governance and defining his duties. It was customary for the surveyor of the port to furnish such regulations
to inspectors and others at the time of their entering the customs service. The regulations hereinafter quoted were among
those so given to the claimant.
VII. The laws and regulations for the government of
officers of customs under the superintendence and direction
of surveyor of ports, 1877, were issued by the Secretary of
the Treasury to the custom-house authorities of all ports, including the port of Baltimore; and were in operation in all of
the principal ports, except Baltimore, in which the practice of
the port at the time of the claimant's appointment was not,
and had not been, in accordance with the requirement of the
regulations making two night watches and relieving the first
watch at midnight. There the surveyor of the port had
always required the night inspectors to serve from sunset .to
sunrise.
VIII. The following are among the regulations given
to the claimant when he entered the service, above referred to:
"ART. 420. The night watchmen shall be divided into two
watches, as nearly equal as possible, both watches to perform
duty every night. The surveyor of the port will, however,
make such changes in the division of the watches as he may
deem expedient, and will appoint the hours of duty for the
different watches.
"Whenever it is necessary to assign a night watchman to a
vessel, or to any other 'all-night' charge, the night watchman
so assigned must remain on the vessel, or on his charge, until
relieved, and he will be excused from performing any duty
the following night.
"Night watchmen must not quit their charge on being
relieved without making their presence personally known to

UNITED STATES v. GARLINGER.
Opinion of the Court.

the officer relieving them. Night watchmen, when on duty,
must wear their official badge."
Upon the foregoing findings of fact, the court decided, as a
conclusion of law, that the claimant was entitled to recover

$2862.
-ir. George Hines Gorman for appellants.
Attorney General Pradt was on his brief.

-ir. Assistant

Aib'. F. P. L'ewees and -Mr. 1. [T'. -ichener for appellee.
-ir. 1-F w.Dudley and M/r. 1. R. -Hagahonwere on their
brief.

M. JUSTICE Sminus delivered the opinion of the court.
Dixon N. Garlinger, the plaintiff in the court below, was
employed by the collector of the port of Baltimore, as a night
inspector in the customs service, from April 1, 1882, till
August 25, 1886. For his services he was entitled to be paid
three dollars per day for each day's work actually performed;
and it is a conceded fact that he was so paid for each and
every day he was in the service.
Two years after he ceased to be so employed he brought
this action, claiming to recover additional compensation, and
recovered a judgment for the sum of $2862.
The plaintiff based his claim for additional pay upon two
grounds, viz., that by the Laws and Regulations for the Government of Officers of Oustoms under the superintendence and
direction of Surveyors of Ports, issued in 18T7 by the Secretary of the Treasury, it was, among other things, provided as
follows: "The night watchmen shall be divided into two
watches, as nearly equal as possible, both watches to perform
duty every night. The surveyor of the port will, however,
make such changes in the division of the watches as he may
deem expedient, and will appoint the hours of duty for the
different watches. Whenever it is necessary to assign a night
watchman to a vessel, or to any other ' all-night' charge, the
night watchman'so assigned must remain on the vessel, or

OCTOBER TERI-I, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

on his charge, until relieved, and he will be excused from
performing any duty the following night;" and that, in disregard of this regulation, and of his objections and remonstrances, he was required to perform the duties of both watches
in some nights, without being excused from the performance
of duty on the following nights.
It is contended that, from these facts, the law will imply a
contract between the claimant and the United States, whereby
the former will be entitled to be paid for both watches, as if
they constituted two days' service.
On the part of the United States it is claimed that the
regulation quoted did not constitute an express contract of
employment between the parties; that the facts negative any
notion of an implied promise to pay any additional sum
beyond the statutory rate of three dollars per day; that, even
if a breach of contract were shown, no recovery could be had
beyond the sum already paid; that there is no obligation on
the United States because such a regulation, if it is to receive
the construction placed upon it by the court below, is in conflict with the law, and, therefore, null and void; that the
construction placed upon the regulation by the court is erroneous; that the regulations of 1877 were repealed and ceased
to be in force at any time after March 24, 1883, by reason of
subsequent regulations, which should have been applied by
the court below.
Section 2733 of the Revised Statutes, under the authority
of which the claimant was employed, was as follows:
"Each inspector shall receive, for every day he shall be
actually employed in aid of the customs, three dollars; and
for every other person that the collector may find it necessary
or expedient to employ, as occasional inspector, or in any
other way in aid of the revenue, a like sum, when actually so
employed, not exceeding three dollars for every day so
employed."
Section 1764: of the Revised Statutes provides that "1To
allowance or compensation shall be made

.

.

for any

extra service whatever which any officer or clerk may be

required to perform, unless expressly authorized by law;"

UJNITED STATES v. GARLINGER.
Opinion of the Court.

and section 1765, that "No officer in any branch of the public
service or any other person whose salary, pay or emoluments
are fixed by law or regulations, shall receive any additional
pay, extra allowance or compensation in any form whatever
from the disbursement of public money, or for any other service
or duty whatever, unless the same is authorized by law, and
the appropriation therefor explicitly states it is for such ad-ditional pay, extra allowance or compensation."
Of these provisions, while they were part of the act of
August 23, 184:2, c. 183, 5 Stat. 508, and before they were
carried into the Revised Statutes, it was said by this court, in
Hoyt v. United States, 10 ]How. 108, 141: "It [this statute]
cuts up by the roots those claims by public officers for extra
compensation, on the ground of extra services. There is no
discretion left in any officer or tribunal to make the allowance,
unless it is authorized by some law of Congress. The prohibition is general, and applies to all public officers, or quasi
public officers, who have a fixed compensation."
Many cases to the same effect, construing these provisions,
are collected in United States v. King, 147 U. S. 676, and in
-Mullett's Administratrim v. United States, 150 U. S. 566, 570,
where it was said that, "obviously, the purpose of Congress,
as disclosed by these sections, was that every officer or regular
employ6 of the government should be limited in his compensation to such salary or fees as were by law specifically attached
to his office or employment. 'Extras,' which are such a fruitful subject of disputes in private contracts, were to be eliminated from the public service."
We are unable to accept the contention that it was competent
for the Secretary of the Treasury, by passing regulations, dividing a day's service into parts, to attach to each part the pay
for a full day's work. By the word "day" in seciion 2733,
Congress evidently meant the calendar day; and the purpose
of Congress in prescribing the pay of three dollars for every
day, and in forbidding any allowance or compensation for
extra services, would be defeated if the regulation in question
were to be construed as providing that a period of twenty-four
hours might be so divided as to justify two or more payments,
VOL. CLxxx-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

to the same person, of the amount fixed for the daily compensation.
Nor do we think that such a construction can be properly
given to the regulation in question. Nothing is said therein
of double pay in case the officer serves both watches. In such
a case, the provision is that he will be excused from performing any duty the following night. This express provision
negatives the inference that if he serves an all-night watch he
will be entitled to double pay, and it certainly does not afford
a ground on which to base an implied contract for full pay foi!
both watches.
United States v. .Martin, 94 U. S. 400, does not help this
claimant's case, for there the court was construing a statute of
Congress declaring that eight hours should constitute a day's
work for all laborers, workmen and mechanics. Rev. Stat.
see. 3738. It is not pretended that the present claimant falls
within the proisions of that statute. He stands only on the
regulation already quoted, and which must be interpreted in
such a way as to consist with the statutes mentioned.
It is not found that the claimant himself ever demanded,
during the period of his service, the compensation he now
seeks. What he complained of was that, after he had performed an all-night service, he was not excused from duty the
following night. He was not employed for any specific period,
and was at liberty to quit the service if he thought the duties
too onerous. He, however, elected to remain during the period
above mentioned, and to receive the compensation awarded him
by the collector, without any protest as to its insufficiency. It
may be fairly presumed that the collector, in paying, and the
claimant, in accepting, the money paid, supposed that the payments were in full. Such a course of conduct, we think, brings
this claimant within the principle of well-settled cases, that the
receipt of payment, purporting to be in full, where there is no
fraud or coercion, cannot afterwards be repudiated as insufficient. Baker v. Vacktr'ieb, 19 How. 126; United States v. Child,
12 Wall. 232; De Arnaud v. United States, 151 U. S. 483.
Such a principle is especially applicable to the transactions
of the government, whose expenditures are met by legislative

PAYNE v. ROBERTSON.
Statement of the Case.

appropriations. We do not want to be understood as saying
that the mere fact of receiving money in payment will estop a
creditor. But where, as in this case, the payments were made
frequently, through a considerable period of time, and were received without objection or protest, and where there is no pretence of fraud, or of circumstances constituting duress, it is
legitimate to infer that such payments were made and received
on the understanding of both parties that they were in full.
Such a presumption is very much strengthened by the lapse bf
two years before the appellee thought fit to make any demand.
These views sufficiently dispose of the case, and render it
unnecessary to consider the other contentions urged on behalf
of the government.
The decree of the Court of Claims is reversed, and the cause
is remanded to that court with directions to dismiss the
claimant'spetition.

PAYNE v. ROBERTSON.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
OKLAHOMA.
No. 20. Submitted January17, 1898. -Decided

February 28, 1898.

A deputy marshal of the United States, duly appointed as such prior to the
passage of the act of March 2, 1889, c. 412, providing for the opening of the
Territory of Oklahoma to settlement, and prior to the proclamation of
the President of Mlarch 23, 1889, fixing the time of the opening of the
lands for settlement, and who entered on said lands and remained there
in his official character prior to the day fixed for said opening, was
thereby disqualified from making a homestead entry immediately upon
the lands being opened for settlement.

PAYNE, the appellant here, filed his bill of complaint in the
District Court for the.county of Logan and Territory of Okla-

homa, First Judicial District, against the present appellees.
It was averred in the bill that prior to the passage of the act

of Congress of March 2, 1889, providing for opening the
Oklahoma lands for settlement, the complainant had been

