OCTOBER TERI, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

LEVIS v. KENGLA.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
io.173. Argued January 11,12, 1898.-Decided February 21, 1898.

Decree affirmed on a question of fact only.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
MA. Henry . Davis for appellant.
was on his brief.

.313'. H. B.

foulton

Mr.J Roldsworh Gordon for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE

GRA&Y delivered the opinion of the court.

This was a bill in equity, filed by the mortgagor of land in
the District of Columbia, more than fifteen years after the
sale and conveyance of the land under a power in the mortgage, to redeem the land and to enforce a trust therein.
The Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, after a
hearing upon pleadings and proofs, dismissed the bill; and its
decree was affirmed by the Court of Appeals. 8 App. D. C.
230. The plaintiff appealed to this court.
The following facts were either admitted or clearly proved:
Philip Levis, being the owner of the land, on October 29,
1875, made a first mortgage thereof to trustees to secure the
payment of his note to one Clokey for $2000, payable in three
years with interest at the annual rate of ten per cent; and on
May 13, 1876, made a second mortgage to one Weaver, as
trustee, to secure the payment of a promissory note to Charles
R. Kengla and George M. Kengla for $300, payable in one
year, with like interest. Under this second mortgage, default
having been made in the payment of the $300 note, the land
was advertised for sale "subject to a prior trust of $2000;"
and on October 29, 1877, was accordingly sold by auction,
and was bought by the two Kenglas for the sum of $1000,

LEVIS v. KENGLA.
Opinion of the Court.

subject to the first mortgage for $2000. The plaintiff remained in possession of the land for about a year after the
sale, and then removed upon notice from the Kenglas to quit,
and they have ever since remained in possession. On January
17, 1878, Weaver, as trustee under the second mortgage, conveyed the land to the Kenglas, in accordance with the terms
of the sale, and received from them the price of $1000. On
May 26, 1879, the Kenglas, with the knowledge of Levis, sold
and conveyed part of the land to one Htume for the sum of
$2756.89. Levis never claimed any interest in the land, after
the conveyance to the Kenglas on January 11, 1878, until he
filed the original bill in this case against them on March 29,
1893.
In the bill, the plaintiff alleged that, when the land was
put up for sale by auction on October 29, 1877, there being
present no bidders nor any.persons interested in the purchase
of the property except the defendants, the threatened sale
was objected to by the plaintiff, and was only permitted to
be made, without protest, upon an oral statement by the defendants that they only desired to obtain out of the property
the amount of the incumbrances thereon, and that, if he
would permit them to go through the form of a sale, they
would take and hold the property for his benefit, and would
reconvey it to him, or so much thereof as was left after sufficient had been sold to satisfy their claim, together with the
costs of the sale; whereupon, relying upon their promise, he
suffered an informal sale of the property to be made to them
by the trustee.
The defendants, answering under oath, denied that, at any
time before the sale to them, there was any understanding,
agreement or suggestion, of any kind whatsoever, between
them and the plaintiff, to impeach or qualify the absolute
purchase of the property by them for their own use and benefit; and alleged that, after that sale, the plaintiff informed
them that he believed he could obtain a purchaser for the
property at a greater price; that, wishing the plaintiff to
obtain as much as possible out of the property, they informed
him that if he could obtain such purchaser within two weeks

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

from the day of sale, they would convey the property to such
purchaser, and turn over to the plaintiff the increased price
obtained; that the plaintiff endeavored to obtain such purchaser, but finally came to them and informed them that he
had failed to find a purchaser; whereupon they obtained a
deed from the trustee.
Upon a careful consideration of the conflicting testimony
introduced at the hearing, this court fully concurs in one of
the positions taken by the Court of Appeals, and-stated in its
opinion as follows: "The complainant has not established his
case by any such preponderance of testimony as is required
by the rules of law to overthrow the title of the defendants.
On the contrary, the preponderance of testimony is wholly
against him. It is unreasonable to suppose that the defendants, having a good security as it stood, would have converted
themselves into permanent trustees for an indefinite period for
the sole and exclusive benefit of the complainant, the latter
never at any time concerning himself with the payment of
interest or taxes, or the care of the property in any way, for
fifteen years. To establish such an arrangement as this, very
positive and satisfactory evidence would be required; and
without going into any examination of the testimony, it is
sufficient for us here to say that, in our opinion, the testimony
wholly fails to establish any such arrangement, or any arrangement whatever upon which a court of equity would be justified in acting. It would seem to be a conclusive answer to
the complainant's pretensions, that when, within a year after
the sale, and when they deemed their indulgence to him to
have reached its legitimate limit, they gave him notice to quit
the premises, and thereby plainly intimated to him that they
regarded any interest which he might have had in the premises as at an end, he submitted to the notice, without protest,
and acquiesced in his exclusion from the property. This
conduct, coupled with his utter disregard thereafter of any
liability, either in regard to the property or in regard to the
indebtedness, is wholly inconsistent with the existence of any
such trust arrangement as that which he claims to have been
made between him and the defendants." 8 App. D. 0. 237.

WETZEL v. xINIESOTA RAILWAY CO PANY.

237

Statement of the Case.

This view being decisive of the case, it becomes unnecessary
to consider the defence of laches, or that of the statute of
frauds; and a discussion of the testimony in detail could be
of no value as a precedent, and would serve no useful purpose. Hlarrellv. Beall, 17 Wall. 590; Tyler v. Campbel, 106
U. S. 322.
-Decree afflrmed.

WETZEL

v. MINTESOTA RAILWAY
COMPANY.

TRANSFER

APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 94. Argued January 25, 1898. -Decided

February 21, 1898.

The decree of the Circuit Court, affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals,
dismissing the bill in this case on the ground of laches was correct, and
that decree is affirmed.

THIS was a bill in equity filed in the United States Circuit
Court for the District of Minfiesota, by the widow (since
remarried) and heirs at law of George W. Remsen against the,
Minnesota Railway Transfer Company, and over two hundred
other defendants, to establish title to one hundred and- sixty
acres of land situate within the corporate limits of the city of
St. Paul, which the complainants contended was held in trust
for them by the defendants. The land was estimated to be of
the value of over one million dollars.
The facts of the case are substantially as follows: George
W. Remsen was a private in Company K, Third Regiment,
United States Infantry, and served in the M exican war. By
virtue of his enlistment as a soldier he became entitled, under
section 9 of the act of Congress of February 11, 18417, c. 8,
9 Stat. 123, to locate a quarter section of government land,
subject to private entry, under the regulations and restrictions
established by the Commissioner of the General Land Office.
This section further provided that in case of the death of

