LOGAN COU-NTY v. UNITED STATES.
Counsel for Parties.

and were limited to the clerical functions of making payment,
as directed by the act. United States v. Jordan,113 U. S.
418. It cannot be possible that Congress had the least intention, when making provision for the payment of other and
further claims of the same character, to in anywise open the
transactions which had been closed by the payment of the
moneys directed by the act of 1891. We have no doubt whatever that if Congress had any such intention it would have
made it clear by the use of -far different language from that
which is contained in the act of 1893. It would have said,
in so many words, that, in proceeding under the statute of
1893, the officers named therein should examine into the correctness of the decisions arrived at in 1890 and 1891.
The judgment of the Court of Claims was right, and it
should, therefore, be
Afflrmed.

LOGAN COUNTY v. UNITED STATES.'
APPE.AL FROM THE COURT OF CLAESIS.
No. 167. Argued January 5, 6, 1898. -Decided

February 21, 1898.

Where a railroad company pays a tax on its undistributed surplus under the
internal revenue act of June 30, 1864, c. 173, 13"Stat. 223, it is thereby
paying a tax upon its own property, and such payment cannot be regarded as a payment of a tax upon a stock dividend thereafter declared
I
by the company.

T.E case is stated in the opinion.
. 1 r. harles C. Binney for appellants.
Attorney General Pradt was on his brief.

XMP". Assi~tant

.Mr'. Alphonso Rart for appellees. .MXr. Fontaine T. Foxe
was on his brief.

I The docket title of this case is "The Commissioners of the Sinking
Fund of Logan County and the County of Logan, Kentucky, Appellants, v.
The United States."

OCTOBER TERBI,

1897.

Opinion of the Court.

MIR.

JUSTICE PE XAm

delivered the opinion of the court.

This application was made to recover taxes heretofore paid,
and, like the one in the preceding case, it is based upon the
statement that the tax could not be imposed as against the
county of Logan, because it was a municipal corporation, and
not subject to taxation by Congress upon its municipal
revenues. United States v. Railroad Com2any, 17 Wall. 322.
Therefore, if it appear that the railroad company has deducted
from the dividend due the county the amount of any tax paid
to the Government on a stock dividend issued by the company,
the appellants are entitled to recover. The facts are quite
simple.
On the 14th of March, 1894, the appellants filed their petition in the Court of Claims for the refunding of taxes which
they claimed to be entitled to under the act of February-25,1893,
c. 165, 27 Stat. 477. The act is set out in full in the margin
in the preceding case of United States v. City of Louisville,
ante, p. 249. The claim made herein was for internal revenue
taxes alleged to have been illegally assessed, and amounting
to the sum of $17,606.14. Under the provisions of the statute
above cited the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, with the
approval of the Secretary of the Treasury, audited and adjusted this claim at the sum of $15,397.75, and in due course
of procedure it came to the Comptroller of the Treasury, who
directed a warrant to issue for the sum of but $9533.54 (the
total amount withheld from the county on account of taxes on
cash dividends), and he refused to include in the warrant the
sum of $5864.21, being the balance of the $15,397.75 which
had been audited and adjusted as above mentioned, because,
as the Comptroller held, the claim for taxes paid on account
of stock dividends was illegal and unauthorized, and this suit
is brought to recover the sum which was rejected by the
Comptroller, and which he refused to pay. The Court of
Claims gave judgment in favor of the Government and dismissed the petition of claimants, who have appealed to this
court from the judgment of dismissal.
The point first made by the counsel for the claimants is

LOGAN COUNTY v. UNITED STATES.

Opinion of the Court.

that the audit and adjustment made by the Commissioner of
Internal Revenue, and approved by the Secretary of the
Treasury, under the act of Congress of 25th of February, 1893,
was an award having all the force of a judgment which could
not be questioned either by the Comptroller of the Treasury
or by the courts, except for fraud or mistake. The cases of
United States v. KYaufman, 96 U. S. 567, and United States v.
Savings Bank, 104: U. S. 728, are cited for the purpose of
showing the conclusiveness of the action of the officers above
named.
All that those cases hold is, that where in a case somewhat
similar to this the claim had been allowed by the officers
named in the statute, "the allowance may be used as the basis
of an action against the United States in the Court of Claims,
where it will beprimafacie evidence of the amount that is
due,, and put on the Government the burden of showing fraud
or mistake. This burden is not overcome by proving that
some other officer in the subsequent progress of the claim
through the department declined to do what the law or
Treasury regulations required of him before payment could
be obtained. The fact of fraud or mistake must be established
by competent evidence, the same as any other fact in issue.
An allowance by the commissioner in this class of cases is not
the simple passing of an ordinary claim by an ordinary accounting officer, but a statement of accounts by one having
authority for that purpose under an act of Congress." United
States v. Savings Bank, 104: U. S.728, at 733. The question
of the conclusiveness of the action of the officers of the Government under their general powers is also referred to in lWisconsin Central Railroad v. United States, 164 U. S.190, and
it is there held that the Government is not bound by the act
of its officers in making an unauthorized payment under misconstruction of the law. However, the act of the Commissioner of Internal Revenue and the Secretary of the Treasury
in approving the claim may be assumed to beprimafacie evidence that the amount so approved by them was due the
claimant from the Government, and the burden therefore
rested upon the Government of showing that the allowance of
VOL. CLXIX-17

OCTOBER TERMI, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

the amount claimed in this proceeding was made through a
mistake on the part of those officials. Unless this mistake is
made apparent by the findings of the court below, its judgment in refusing to give effect to the allowance of the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, approved by the Secretary of
the Treasury, might have to be reversed. If, however, the
f"indings show that those officials did make a mistake in allowing that portion of the claim made which is now in suit, the
judgment of the court below, so far as this point is concerned,
must be affirmed.
The defence made by the Government upon the merits is
based on the provisions of the statute of 1893, and upon the
allegations that the findings of the court below substantially
show there were no taxes paid upon any stock dividends
declared in 1867 or 1868. It is added that the claim on the
part of the county of Logan was not in reality for any taxes
actually paid on "dividends in scrip" or "stock dividends"
issued to appellants, but that it was for a certain proportion
of the taxes paid by the railroad company on that part of its
profits which were not distributed in dividends, and which in
fact constituted what the internal revenue acts of 1864: and
1866 called "profits carried to the account of any fund or
used for construction," and which funds were taxable under
those acts, as the property of the corporation.
Counsel insists that a tax upon undistributed profits in the
treasury or'belonging to the corporation is like a tax on gross
earnings, a tax on the corporation on account of its own property, and not to be thereafter recovered by this claimant,
either under the act of 1893 or under those sections of the
United States Revised Statutes therein alluded to.
It must be remembered that the Court of Claims under the
act of 1893 was simply given jurisdiction to examine a claim
which was otherwise barred by the statute of limitations.
The act gave no other right and created no chim against the
Government not otherwise existing. The right of recovery
for an illegal tax bad been provided for by the Revised Statutes of the United States, section 3220, and that remedy
could have been pursued for two years after the payment of

LOGAN COUNTY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

any such tax. lRev. Stat. ยง 3228. ' In this case the tifiie thus
limited had expired, and the-act of 1893 was passed for the
purpose of setting aside the bar of the then existing statute.
The right to demand the refunding of the money in dispute
must depend therefore upon the question whether any tax on
a stock dividend had been collected from the company by the
Government, and a proportionate amount thereof deducted
by the company from the dividend otherwise due the county.
No deduction of any tax from the scrip dividend due to the
claimant was ever made in terms. It is sought to be inferred
from the fact that a prior payment of a tax by the company
on its undistributed surplus had thereby diminished that fund
by the amount of the tax, and that a stock dividend must be
assumed to represent profits not distributed in cash dividends,
and that the claimant would have received more stock if the
profits had not been diminished by the payment of the tax
from which it is said a municipal corporation was exempt
under the decision of the Supreme Court in the case of WMsoonsin OentraZ Railroadv. United States, above cited. Of course,
the payment of the tax diminished the profits of the company
by just that amount. But, at the time when it was paid, the
full amount thereof was due the Government from the company itself, and not one penny could properly have been deducted from the amount of the tax by reason of the fact that
a municipal corporation owned a certain amount of the stock
of the company. All taxes which were levied on the property
of the company were payable in their full amount by the
company, and not a dollar could be legally deducted from
such tax on account of the character of any owners of its
stock. Consequently, when a stock dividend is declared, the
fact that the directors might have chosen to declare a larger
one if it had not been for the payment of the taxes the company had made on its own property, is entirely immaterial.
So is the fact, if it be a fact, that the total stock dividend
was reduced by the amount which the company had theretofore paid as a tax upon its undistributed surplus.
There is no finding of the court below which in terms shows
that the tax in question here was ever paid on a "stock" or

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.
",scrip"

dividend. All that appears is that a stock dividend
of forty per cent on, its capital was declared by the railroad
company by a resolution adopted on the 16th of November,
1867, which provided that the stock should be issued on
February 10, 1868.
The court below did find that prior to the passage of the
act of February 25, 1893, certain proceedings had theretofore
taken place in the Treasury Department relative to the same
taxes paid by the same railroad company. (The court in this
finding referred to the proceedings in regard to the claim
made by the city of Louisville for a return of taxes, under the
circumstances detailed in that case, just decided, ante, p. 249,
and which are therein set forth.)
The court then set forth in this case the finding made in
the -Louisvillecase, and in that case, after speaking of the fact
that cash dividends had been declared upon the stock of the
railroad company, and that there existed a large amount of
undistributed surplus in the treasury of the railroad company,
the finding continued: "These cash dividends and the undistributed surplus which was converted into stock or scrip
dividends were held by the officers of the Government to be
subject to taxation, and taxes were assessed and collected
according to the terms of the statute in force at the time of
the respective collections."
Taking all the facts as found by the court below, it appears
that the only tax paid was paid on the undistributed surplus
of the company while it remained such surplus in its hands
and while it was a portion of its own property, as much so as
anything else owned by it, and that thereafter the company
declared a stock dividend of forty per cent upon its old
capital.
By the provisions of the internal revenue act of 1864, section 122, a stock dividend was subject to a tax of five per
cent. So far as material the section provides: "That any
railroad

.

.

that may have declared any dividend in

scrip, or money due or payable to its stockholders, as part of
the earnings, profits, income or gains of such company, and
all profits of such company carried to the account of any fund,

LOGAN COUNTY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

or used for construction, shall be subject to and pay a duty of
five per centum on the amount of all such interest, or coupons,
dividends or profits, whenever the same shall be payable;
and said companies are hereby authorized to deduct and withhold from all payments, on account of any interest, or coupons
and dividends due and payable as aforesaid, the duty of five
per centum," etc.
Under this plain provision of the statute it is perfectly clear
that the stock dividend in question was a proper subject
of taxation. But, as already mentioned, there is no finding
that any such tax has been paid, and, of course, none that
any deduction on its account was ever made from any dividend due the county. On the contrary, from the findings
that have been made, it appears that the only tax which has
been paid was paid by the railroad company upon its undistributed surplus at a time when such fund was its own absolute property. That fact, taken in connection with the
declaration of the dividend of forty per cent upon the amount
of the capital of the railroad company, does not show a payment of the tax on the stock dividend declared under the
resolution mentioned.
It is plain that this surplus fund, which, at the time it was
taxed, belonged to the company, was not distributed to the
stockholders, nor was it converted into stock by reason of the
stock dividend. If it had been a cash dividend sufficiently
large in amount to cover the surplus, then the payment of the
dividend would have affected the distribution of the fund.
But no distribution could take place by any stock dividend.
Such a dividend distributed nothing but stock, which made
the stockholder neither richer nor poorer than he was before
it was issued.
Although the court finds that the undistributed surplus of
the railroad company was held by the officers of the Government to be subject to taxation, and taxes were assessed and
collected according to the terms of the statute in force at the
time of the respective collections, yet such fact does not advance us a step in the direction of showing that any duties
were paid on the stock dividend. The tax or duties had been

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

paid by the company on a fund which then belonged to it.
Unless payment of the tax on this undistributed surplus was
in substance a payment of the five per cent tax on the stock
dividend, then there is no finding that any such payment was
ever made. That payment cannot be so regarded because
the tax on the undistributed surplus was a tax upon the property of the company and was paid as such by the company,
and if the amount thereof were deducted by the company
from its subsequent stock dividend, that would be an act of
the company, and would not render the prior payment of the
tax on the undistributed surplus improper even with regard
to Logan County. Otherwise all payments of taxes made by
a company upon its own property would be subject to a deduction proportioned to the amount of its stock held by States
or other corporations of a municipal character. The adoption
of the resolution for a stock dividend, together with theissue
of the stock, could have absolutely no effect upon the undistributed surplus fund, so far as any distribution thereof was
concerned. The shareholder got no more interest in or right
to that fund than he had before, and the prior payment of the
tax upon it did not thereby decrease the amount of the forty
per cent dividend upon the old capital by a penny. And yet
it is only upon the payment of the tax which the company
made on its property, in the shape of its undistributed surplus,
that the claimants can by this record found their claim to
recover their proportion of such tax. If allowed, then the
claimant could, upon the same reasoning, recover its proportion of every tax paid by the company upon any other of its
prop6rty, unless the statute of limitations applied. If the
company in fact reduced its stock dividend by the amount of
the tax which it had previously paid on the surplus fund belonging to it, such fact gives no support to the claim of the
county to recover from the Government an amount of a perfectly legal tax. And as before stated, the proof really is
that there was no other payment of a tax than one upon the
surplus as the property of the company.
An effort is made to show that this payment of a duty or
tax on the undistributed fund might be treated as a payment

LOGAN COUNTY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

of such duty or tax on the stock dividend, under the proviso
contained in section 121 of the statute of 1864, which reads:
".Provided, That when any dividend is made which includes
any part of the surplus or contingent fund of any
railroad company, which has been assessed and the duty paid
thereon, the amount of duty so paid on that portion of the
surplus or contingent fund may be deducted from the duty on
such dividend."
It is perfectly apparent that this proviso includes only cash
dividends. It is a dividend which is to include for distribution
any part of the surplus or contingent fund of a railroad or
other company. How can a stock dividend distribute a fund?
As already remarked, a stock dividend distributes nothing but
stock. Hence, there is no sense in applying the statute to a
case where no distribution of a fund is made and where the
fact of a double payment on the fund cannot arise. The proviso clearly refers to a case where a surplus has already paid
duty and where subsequently to that time it is distributed to
the shareholders. Under such circumstances that portion of
the dividend which has thus once paid its duty of five per
cent is not to be taxed again when distributed to the shareholders. But so long as there is no distribution, the tax paid
on the surplus as surplus and which belonged to the corporation when the tax was paid, is not to be credited on or deducted from a subsequent tax upon a stock dividend which
does not distribute the surplus nor in any manner change its
ownership.
We agree, therefore, with the opinion of the court below,
and we hold that where a railroad company pays a tax on its
undistributed surplus under the act of 1864, it is thereby paying a tax upon its own property, and that such payment cannot be regarded as a payment of the tax upon a stock dividend
thereafter declared by the railroad company.
The judgment of the Court of Claims should, therefore, be
Affirmed.

