WETMORE v. RYMER.
Statement of the Case.

that the United States court should go to decree and sale in
order to cut off intervening liens, it may be conceded that
th')se courts held, on the facts appearing, that the agreement
was not open to that objection, but it would not follow that
thereby a Federal question was disposed of. And the point
was certainly embraced by the first judgment.
We are of opinion that we cannot revise the present judgment on the ground that plaintiff in error was thereby denied
any right properly claimed, and in apt time, in accordance
with ยง 709 of the Revised Statutes.
Wvrit of error dismnissed.

WETMORE v. RYMER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.
No. 76. Submitted November 1, 1S97. - Decided January 17, 1898.

In an action of ejectment the question whether the land in dispute is of
sufficient value to give a Circuit Court jurisdiction is purely one of fact,
and the statutes regulating jurisdiction leave the mode of trying such
issues to the discretion of the trial judge.
Whether he elects to submit such issue to a jury, or to himself hear and
determine it without the intervention of a jury, in either event the parties
are not concluded by the judgment of the Circuit Court.
In this case the question was passed upon by the court below on affidavits,
and the judgment dismissing the action for want of jurisdiction is reviewable here.
A suit cannot properly be dismissed by a Circuit Court as not involving
a controversy of an amount sufficient to come within its jurisdiction,
unless the facts, when made to appear on the record, create a legal certainty of that conclusion.

THIS was an action of ejectment, brought in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Tennessee, to recover a tract of land in Polk County. The declaration alleged that the land was worth more than two thousand
dollars. The defendants disclaimed as to a portion of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

land, and pleaded not guilty and the statute of limitations as
to the remainder.
At the trial, after the plaintiffs' evidence was closed, the
defendants moved the court to dismiss the plaintiffs' suit for
want of jurisdiction because it appeared that the matter in
dispute did not exceed, exclusive of interest and costs, the sum
or value of two thousand dollars; but the court suspended
action on this motion until the verdict of the jury should be
rendered. The defendants then proceeded to introduce their
evidence on the matters put in issue by the pleadings, and,
after argument of counsel and the charge of the court, the
jury found a verdict in favor of the plaintiffs, and assessed
their damages for the detention of the premises at one dollar.
Thereupon the court rendered judgment -on the verdict and a
writ of possession and execution accordingly.
But, immediately upon the rendition of the verdict and
judgment, the court set them aside, entertained the defendants' motion to dismiss for want of jurisdiction, and gave leave
to both parties to file affidavits showing the value of the land
in controversy.
Upon consideration of the evidence heard on the trial and
of affidavits produced on behalf of the plaintiffs, the court,
being of opinion that the value of the matter in dispute was
less than two thousand dollars, and that there was not a substantial controversy between the parties of sufficient value to.
be within the jurisdiction of the court, dismissed the suit for
want of jurisdiction, and rendered judgment for costs against
the plaintiffs. The plaintiffs excepted to this action of the
court; a bill of exceptions was sealed; and a writ of error
was allowed to this court.
2fr. Clarles Seymour for plaintiffs in error.
No appearance for defendants in error.
MR. JuSTI E SHIRAS, after making the above statement, de-

livered the opinion of the court.
The first question that arises upon this record is whether

WETMORE v. RYMER.
Opinion of the Court.

the action of the Circuit Court in dismissing the plaintiffs'
action for the want of jurisdiction is reviewable by us. The
court acted in pursuance of the fifth section of the act of
March 3, 1875, c. 137, 18 Stat. 470, 472, which provided, "that
if, in any suit commenced in a Circuit Court or removed from
a state court to a Circuit Court of the United States, it shall
appear to the satisfaction of said Circuit Court, at any time
after such suit has been brought or removed thereto, that such
suit does not really and substantially involve a dispute or controversy properly within the jurisdiction of said Circuit Court,
or that the parties to said suit have been improperly or collusively made or joined, either as plaintiffs or defendants, for the
purpose of creating a case cognizable or removable under this
act, the said Circuit Court shall proceed no further therein, but
shall dismiss the suit or remand it to the court from which it
was removed, as justice may require, and shall make such
order as to costs as shall be just; but the order of said Circuit
Court dismissing or remandihg said cause to the state court
shall be reviewable by the Supreme Court on writ of error or
appeal as the case may be."
By the sixth section of the act of August 13, 1888, c. 866,
25 Stat. 433, 436, amending the act -of March 3, 1887, it was
enacted "that the last paragraph of section five of the act of
Congress approved March third, eighteen hundred and seventyfive, entitled 'An act to determine the jurisdiction of Circuit
Courts of the United States and to regulate the removal of
causes from state courts, and for other purposes,' and section
six hundred and forty of the Revised Statutes, and all laws
anl parts of laws in conflict with the provisions of this act, be
and the same are hereby repealed."
Any doubt that may have been caused by this repealing
enactment, as to the power to review the judgment of a Circuit Court dismissing a suit for want of jurisdiction, was
removed by the act of February 25, 1889, c. 236, 25 Stat. 693,
entitled "An act to provide for writs of error or appeals to
the Supreme Court of the United States in all cases involving
the question of the jurisdiction of the courts below," and
'which provided "that in all cases where a final judgment or

OCTOBER TERI, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

decree shall be rendered in a Circuit Court of the United States
in which there shall have been a question involving the jurisdiction of the court, the party against whom the judgment or
decree is rendered shall be entitled to an appeal or writ of
error to the Supreme Court of the United States to review
such judgment or decree without reference to the amount of
the same; but in cases where the decree or judgment does
not exceed the sum of five thousand dollars the Supreme
Court shall not review any question raised upon the record
except such question of jurisdiction; such writ of error or
appeal shall be taken and allowed under the same provisions
as apply to other writs of error or appeals.

.

.

This act of February 25, 1889, was followed by the act of
March 3, 1891, c. 517, 26 Stat. 826, which provided, in its fifth
section, "that appeals or writs of error may be taken from
the District Courts or from the existing Circuit Courts direct
to the Supreme Court in the following cases : In any case in
which the jurisdiction of the court is in issue; in such cases
the question of jurisdiction alone shall be certified to the
Supreme Court from the court below for decision."
These provisions of the several statutes plainly disclose the
intent of Congress that a party whose suit has been dismissed
by a Circuit Court for want of jurisdiction shall have the
right to have such judgment reviewed by this court. And we
have accordingly heretofore held that the action of the Circuit Courts in such cases is subject to our revision. Williams
v. Nottawa, 101 U. S.209; Barry v. EZdmunds, 116 U. S.550;
ilartog v. .Memory, 116 U. S. 588; .Morris v. Gilmer, 129
U. S.315 ; Deputron v. Young, 134 U. S.241 ; Lehigh f2fining
&c.Co. v. ffelly, 160 U. S.327.
The question raised by this writ of error is whether the
Circuit Court erred in dismissing the plaintiffs' suit for the
alleged reason that the value of the property in dispute did
not amount to the sum of two thousand dollars, exclusive of
interest and costs, and that, therefore, such suit did not
really and substantially involve a dispute or controversy properly within the jurisdiction of said Circuit Court; and, as
prescribed by the fifth section of the act of March 3, 1891,

WETMKORE v. RYM-ER.
Opinion of the Court.

such question of the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court alone is
presented for our decision. Shields v. Coleman, 157 U. S. 168.
The question whether the land in dispute was of a value
sufficient to give the Circuit Court jurisdiction was purely
one of fact, and as that question was not submitted to the
jury, but was passed on by the court upon affidavit, it is now
suggested that, upon a writ of error, this court cannot consider the facts disclosed. by the affidavits, but is restricted to
any errors of law shown by the record.
Undoubtedly, the general rule is that, upon a writ of error,
only matters of law appearing on the face of the record can
be considered, and that evidence, whether written or oral, and
whether given to the court or to the jury, does not become
a part of the record unless made so by some regular proceeding at the time of the trial and before the rendition of the
judgment. Whatever the error may be, and in whatever
stage of the cause it may have occurred, it must appear in the
record, else it cannot be revised in a court of error exercising
jurisdiction according to the course of the common law; and
ordinarily a bill of exceptions lies only upon some point arising either upon the admission 'or rejection of evidence, or is
a matter of law arising from a fact found, or not denied, and
which has been overruled by the court. .Arthursv. Rart, 17
How. 6.
The difficulty arises out of the peculiar character of the
legislation which we are now considering. Prior to the passage of the act of 1875 questions going to the jurisdiction of
the court could only be raised by a plea in abatement in the
nature of a plea to the jurisdiction. See Parmingtonv. Pillsbury, 114 U. S. 138, and cases there cited. If such a plea
presented a question of law upon the face of the record, this
court could review the decision of the court below upon such
question of law. If the plea asserted matters of fact dehors
the record, it was open for the parties to agree upon a statement of facts, or to take exceptions to the rulings of the
court in admitting or rejecting evidence offered to the jury or
in giving instructions, and in either event only questions of
law would be presented for our decision.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

But, under the act of 1875, the trial court is not bound by
the pleadings of the parties, but may, of its own motion, if led
to believe that its jurisdiction is not properly invoked, inquire
into the facts as they really exist. Williams v. NYottawa, 104
U. S. 209; Ba'ry v. Ecmunds, 116 U. S. 550; .Morris v.
Gilmer, 129 U. S. 315 ; Deputron v. Young, 134 U. S. 241.
And our present problem is to preserve as well the power of
the trial court to make such inquiries as the right of suitors,
so expressly reserved to them in the statutes, to have the
action of the lower court reviewed by the Supreme Court of
the United States.
In equity cases, which come up on appeal, and where the
evidence on which the court below acted is presented here,
the action of that court can be readily reviewed. But in
cages at law, like the present one, how can we review the
judgment of the court below, unless that judgment is either
based on the verdict of a jury or upon facts found in an
agreed statement?
The statute does not prescribe any particular mode in
which the question of the jurisdiction is to be brought to the
attention of the court, nor how such question, when raised,
shall be determined.
When such a question arises in an action at law its decision
would usually depend upon matters of fact, and also usually
involves a denial of formal, but necessary, allegations contained in the plaintiff's declaration or complaint. Such a
case would be presented when the plaintiff's allegation that
the controversy was between citizens of different States, or
when, as in the present case the allegation that the matter in
dispute was of sufficient value to give the court jurisdiction,
was denied.
In such cases, whether the question was raised by the defendant or by the court on its own motion, the court might
doubtless order the issue to be tried by the jury. The action
of the court, in the admission or rejection of evidence, or in
instructing the jury, would thus be subjected to the review
by this court which was intended by Congress.
Such was the course pursued in the case of Jones v. League,

WETMORE v. RYMER.
Opinion of the Court.

18 How. 76. That was an action at law to try title to land.
League, the plaintiff, averred himself to be a citizen of Maryland, the defendants being citizens of Texas. By a plea in
abatement the defendants alleged that, at the time of the
commencement of the suit, League was a citizen of Texas.
On this plea the plaintiff took issue, and a trial of that issue
was had, which resulted, under the instructions of the cour*t,
in a verdict of the jury for the plaintiff. The case was
brought up, by a writ of error, to this court, where the validity of the instructions given by the trial court was considered.
A similar course was followed in the case of Chicago &
-Northwestern Railway v. O/de, 11.7 U. S. 123. There, an
action had been brought by Ohle in a state court of Iowa
against the railway company, which took the case by a removal petition into the Circuit Court of the United States,
-on the ground that Ohle was a citizen of Iowa and the railway company a citizen of Illinois. Ohle was permitted by
the Circuit Court to file a plea in abatement or to the juris-diction, alleging that both he and the railway company were
.citizens of Illinois. Upon this plea issue was joined, and a
trial had with a jury; and the cause was brought to this
,court by a writ of error, where the instructions of the court
to the jury were reviewed and the judgment affirmed.
But the questions might arise in such a shape that the court
-might consider and determine them without the intervention
,of a jury. And it would appear to have been the intention of
,Congress to leave the mode of raising and trying such issues
to the discretion of the trial judge.
But whether the judge shall elect to submit the issues to
the jury, or to himself hear and determine them, it is the
manifest meaning of this legislation that, in either event, the
parties are not to be concluded by the judgment of the Circuit Court. As we have already said, if the questions are
submitted to the jury, there will be a ready remedy, by
proper exceptions and a writ of error, to correct any errors
into which the trial court may have fallen. And if the court
takes to itself the determination of the disputed questions, it
is imperative, in order to give effect to the intention of Con-

OCTOBER TER.Al, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

gress, that its action must take a form that will enable this
court to review it, so far as to determine whether the conclusion of the court below was warranted by the evidence before
that court.
Thus in Barry v. Edmunds, 116 U. S. 550, where the judgment of the Circuit Court, dismissing a cause because in its
opinion the matter in dispute did not amount to the jurisdictional value, was reversed, it was said:
"In making such an order therefore the Circuit Court exercises a legal and not a personal discretion, which must be
exerted in view of the facts sufficiently proven, and controlled
by fixed rules of law. It might happen that the judge, on
the trial or hearing of the cause, would receive impressions
amounting to a moral certainty that it does not really and
substantially involve a dispute or controversy within the
jurisdiction of the dourt. But upon such a personal conviction, however strong, he would not be at liberty to act, unless
the facts on which the persuasion is based, when made distinctly to appear on the record, create a legal certainty of
the conclusion based on them. Nothing less than this is
meant by the statute when it provides that the failure of its
jurisdiction, on this account, ' shall appear to the satisfaction
of said Circuit Court. ' " In H1artogv. -Memory, Ib. 588, it was
said: "1Nodoubt, if, from any source, the court is led to suspect
that its jurisdiction has been imposed upon by the collusion
of the parties or in any other way, it may at once of its own
motion cause the necessary inquiry to be made, either by
having the proper issue joined and tried, or by some other
appropriate form of proceeding, and act as justice may require
for its own protection against fraud or imposition. But the
evidence on which the Circuit Court acts in dismissing the
suit must be pertinent either to the issue made by the parties,
or to the inquiry instituted by the court; and must appear of
record if either party desires to invoke the appellate jurisdiction of this court for the review of the order of dismissal.
And when the defendant has not so pleaded as to entitle him
to object to the jurisdiction, and the objection is taken by the
court of its own motion, justice requires that the plaintiff

WETMORE v. R YMER.
Opinion of the Court.

should have an opportunity to be heard upon the motion, and
to meet it by appropriate evidence."
And this language from Barry v. Edmunds was quoted
with approval in the case of Deputron v. Young, 134: U. S.
252.
This court must, therefore, consider whether the judgment
of the Circuit Court, dismissing the suit for want of jurisdiction, was warranted by the facts of the case as they are disclosed in the record.
The declaration was as follows:
"The plaintiff, George Peabody Wetmore, who is a citizen
of the State of Rhode Island; Matilda C. Alloway, a citizen
and resident of the State of Pennsylvania; V. K. Stevenson,
Hugh Stevenson, Paul E. Stevenson, Eloise Stevenson Kernochan and James L. Kernochan, her husband, and Maxwell
Stevenson, by Paul E. Stevenson, his next friend, all of whom
are citizens and residents of the State of New York, sue the
defendants, David Rymer, Sam. Rymer, Tom Payne and
W. Calvin McConnell, all of whom are citizens and residents
of Polk County, Tennessee, to recover the following-described
lands, situate in the county of Polk, in the southern division
of the eastern district of Tennessee, to wit:
"In town. one, range three east, of the basis line, Ocoee
district.
"The south half of section one, the south half of section
two, the northwest quarter of section eleven, all of section
twelve, the southwest quarter of section thirteen.
"In town. two, range four east, of the basis line, Ocoee
district.
"All of sections one and two and three and five and eight
and nine and ten and eleven and twelve and thirteen and
fourteen and fifteen and seventeen and twenty and twentyone and twenty-two and twenty-three and twenty-four and
twenty-five and twenty-six and twenty-seven and twentyeight and thirty-three and thirty-four and thirty-five, the
north half and the southeast quarter of section six, the east
half of section seven, the east half of section eighteen, the
east half and the northwest quarter of section nineteen, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.

121

Opinion of the Court.

-north half and the southeast quarter of section twenty-nine,
the east half of section thirty-two, the west half of the west
half of section thirty-six.
"In town. one, range four east, of the basis line, Ocoee
-district.
"All of section thirty-one and thirty-five and thirty-six, the
west half of section thirty-four.
"As shown on the general plan of the Ocoee district of the
State of Tennessee, to which and the grants for said land refer-ence is made for full description.
"Which lands are worth more than two thousand dollars
.and of which lands said plaintiffs were possessed, claiming in
fee, before the commencement of this suit, and after said
possession accrued the said defendants, on the first day of
.January, 1892, entered thereupon and unlawfully withhold
.and detain the same, together with one thousand dollars due
for the detention thereof."
The plea was as follows:
"And now comes the defendant, David Rymer, and for
plea to plaintiffs' declaration says that he is not in possession
-of and does not claim and has not entered upon or been in
possession of or claimed any part of the lands in said declaration described, except the following described lands, to wit:
The southwest I of section 17, the north I of section 20, the
east and southwest I of section 18, and the northeast - of
.section 19, all in township 2, range 4 east, of the basis line,
Ocoee district, Tennessee; and as to all the lands except those
herein described this defendant here and now disclaims any
and all interest, right or title.
"And for further plea in this behalf said defendant says
that as to the said southwest I; of section 17, the north of
:section 20, the east 4- and southwest J of section 18, and the
northeast I of section 19, all in township 2, range 4 east, of
the basis line, Ocoee district, Polk County, Tennessee, he is
not guilty in manner and form as the plaintiffs in their said
-declaration have alleged; and of this put himself upon the
.country."
The verdict and judgment were for all the lands claimed in
-

WETMORE v. RYMER.l

125.

Opinion of the Court.

the declaration, being a connected body of land of about 25,000.
acres. The plea claiimed right of possession to between one
and two thousand acres. The evidence upon which the court.
passed was restricted to the value of the land claimed by the
defendants. And it is urged on behalf of the plaintiffs that
the value of the entire tract claimed in the declaration and
recovered by the verdict should have been considered in passing upon the question of the value of the matter in dispute
that, while the disclaimer may estop the defendants, it does
not deprive the plaintiffs of their right to a verdict and judgment for the entire tract claimed, upon which a writ of possession may issue; that judgment in ejectment is conclusive
as to title so far as the parties are concerned.
But we do not consider it necessary to consider or decide
this contention, because we are of opinion that the evidence
sufficiently disclosed, for the purposes of maintaining jurisdiction, that the value of the land claimed in the plea exceeded
the sum of two thousand dollars. As that evidence is brief
it seems proper to state it in the very form in which it appears in the bill of exceptions.
At the trial and before the jury rendered their verdict, the
plaintiffs introduced as a witness one Oscar W. Muller, who
testified that he was a surveyor and had surveyed the lands
for the plaintiffs. On cross-exAmination by defendants' attorney he testified that the market value of the land was fifty
cents per acre; that it was wild or mountain land, and not
worth more than that unless its prospective value was to. be
considered, and that the land described in the plea of the
defendants was not worth $1000.
After the verdict and judgment, and upon the motion made
to dismiss, the plaintiffs filed the affidavit of Charles Seymour,
who testified that*he was the attorney and had been for twentyfive years the agent of what are known as the Wetmore and
Stevenson lands, in Polk County, Tennessee, and that he is
familiar with most of the lands and has been on the lands in
dispute in this cause, and that the lands set out in the plea of
the defendants lie on Lost Creek and Little Lost Creek, and
form a connecting way to many thousands of acres of land of

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

the plaintiffs, which lie in that vicinity, and that the lands
described in this plea are worth more than $2000 on account
of their location, and are not to be judged by the general
price for mountain land in the vicinity; that these lands lie
near the foot of Frog Mountain, on the northwesterly side,
where the timber is more than usually heavy and unusually
valuable, both for accessibility and quality.
o
The plaintiffs likewise filed the affidavit of J. B. Brock, in
which he testified as follows:
"I have lived in Polk County over forty years; was sheriff
for six years, and have herded cattle for about twenty-five
years on and in vicinity of lands set out in defendants' plea,
and I know the location of some twenty thousand acres lying
near by, understood to be the property of Wetmore and
Stevenson heirs, the plaintiffs in this suit. The lands described in the plea are worth much more than the ordinary
mountain lands. I sold a quarter section of 160 acres lying
a mile from the lands in the plea for $400, and the lands
described in the plea are near the foot of the mountain, where
the timber is better than on most of the mountains; and the
way they lie, if I owned the Wetmore and Stevenson lands,
I would not want to sell at all, as they are part of a large
boundary that would be needed for shelter of cattle off the
mountain and for roadways; and control of the ways to the
herding grounds or timber work, or if mining be don6 would
be in the way. Not long before the defendant took the lease
in 1888 from Wetmore and Stevenson he offered to make me
a deed for some land a mile and a half from any land in his
present plea in this suit."
The plaintiffs likewise filed the affidavit of 0. W. Muller,
who, having testified that he has been county surveyor for
Polk County for a number of years, and has surveyed the lands
in dispute, and also surrounding lands, said:
"While I value the mountain land as a whole at fifty cents
per acre, the land in litigation, lying on the waters of Lost
Creek and Little Lost Creek at the foot of the mountain,
forms part of a connected body of land of about twenty-five
thousand acres, and forms a gateway and outlet to this body

WETMORE v. RYMER.
Opinion of the Court.

for timber and stock to the Hiwassee River and railroad,
without which the rest of the body would be materially reduced in value,. say from ten to twenty cents per acre. To
cut this off and permanently block this approach would reduce
the value of the whole from two to four thousand dollars."
The defendants filed no affidavits and adduced no evidence
on the question of value, but appear to have relied wholly on
the statements of 0. W. Muller when under cross-examination
at the trial.
It is not easy to see upon what sound view of this evidence
the learned judge of the Circuit Court deprived the plaintiffs
of their verdict and judgment. There was no pretence that
the plaintiffs had fraudulently overstated the value of the
land in order to confer jurisdiction.
It does not seem to have occurred to the defendants that
the land which they claimed was not worth $2000, until, at the
trial, their attorney caught at the statement of one of plaintiffs' witnesses that he estimated wild mountain land at fifty
cents an acre. When the court gave leave to both parties to
file affidavits showing the value of the lands in controversy,
the defendants were unable or unwilling to make or procure
to be made a single statement under oath on the subject of
the inquiry. A liberal presumption ought, therefore, to be
indulged in favor of the plainti~ffs' evidence in that regard.
It is well known that there is no matter in respect to which
the judgments of men more widely differ than in regard to the
value of real estate.
'Wegive no weight to that portion of the plaintiffs' evidence
that goes to show damage to the balance of their lands by
an adverse occupancy of the land claimed by the defendants.
But looking only at the evidence bearing strictly on the value
of the controverted lands, it seems obvious that while the
market value of the wild mountain land generally was estimated by one of the witnesses at fifty cents an acre, yet it
was testified by several witnesses that these particular lands
possessed a special value by reason of their location at the
foot of the mountain, and because the timber on them was
more than usually heavy and valuable both for accessibility

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Syllabus.

and quality. Charles Seymour, who had been familiar with,
the lands for twenty-five years as agent for their owner,
testified that the lands described in the plea were worth more,
than $2000 on account of their location and the quality of'
their timber, and were not to be adjudged by the general
price for mountain land in the vicinity.
It is unnecessary to quote authorities to show that, in estimating the market value of land, everything which gives it
intrinsic value is a proper element for consideration; not
only its present use but its capabilities are to be considered.
Even unimproved land lying at the foot of a mountain range
is obviously more valuable than similar lands less eligibly
situated.
Applying the law as heretofore stated by this court, in the
cases cited, that a suit cannot be properly dismissed by a
Circuit Court as not substantially involving a controversy
within its jurisdiction, unless the facts, when made to appear
on the record,' create a legal certainty of that conclusion, we
conclude that, in the present case, the want of jurisdiction
was not made clear, and that the evidence before that court
did not warrant a dismissal of the action for the want of
jurisdiction.
The judgment of the Circuit Court dismissing the action is
accordingly reversed, and the cause is remanded with directions to restore the judgment on the verdict.

RICHARDSON

v. LOUISVILLE AND
RAILROAD COMPANY.

NASHVILLE

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF FLORIDA.
No. 251.

Submitted December 18,1S97. -Decided

January17, 1898.

On a motion to dismiss for want of jurisdiction, this court being of opinion
that the ruling of the state court on the points upon which the case
turned there was obviously correct, does not feel constrained to retain
the case for further argument, and accordingly affirms the judgment.

