OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Counsel for Parties.

state commerce if it can prescribe that as a condition of its
being carried on. The number of articles and the amount
of interstate commerce thus subjected to the will of the
State can scarcely be overestimated.
It is undoubtedly true that legislation should be had in respect to matters of this kind, but in my judgment such legislation can only come from Congress, and that body, and that
body alone, can prescribe the conditions upon which commerce
in these cattle can be carried on. Congress has legislated, but
only partially, and the fact that its legislation does not go so
far as in the judgment of the legislature of Kansas is required,
is not, in my opinion, sufficient to warrant the State in enacting this statute. For these reasons, thus briefly stated, I am
compelled to dissent from the opinion of the court.

LOUISVILLE AN]) NASHVILLE RAILROAD
PANY v. BEHLMER.

COM-

-APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FOURTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 585. Submitted March 14, 1898. -Decided March 28, 1898.

The provision In ยง 16 of the act of February 4, 1887, as amended by the act
of March 2, 1889, c. 382, that appeals from judgments of Circuit Courts
In such cases to this court shall not operate to stay or supersede the order of the court, or the execution of any writ or process thereon, does
not refer to an appeal from a judgment of a Circuit Court of Appeals to
this court; and such an appeal to this court from such a judgment of a
Circuit Court of Appeals operates as a supersedeas.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
.Mr. Olaudiac B. Nforthrop for the motion to vacate the
supersedeas.
.Mr.Joseph W. Barnwell and -Mr'.EdwardBaxter opposing.

LOUISVILLE &c. RAILROAD v. BEHLMER.

645

Opinion of the Court.

Mni.

Camp JusTici

FULLER delivered the opinion of the

court.
Henry W. Behlmer filed a petition before the Interstate
Commerce Commission, which resulted in an order requiring
the Louisville and N{ashville Railroad Company and other
companies to abstain from charging, demanding, collecting
or receiving any greater compensation in the aggregate for
transportation of hay or other commodities carried by them,
under circumstances and conditions similar to those appearing
in the case, from Memphis, Tennessee, to Summerville, South
Carolina, to that contemporaneously charged and received for
the transportation of hay and other commodities from HVemphis to Charleston, South Carolina. The companies having
failed to comply with that order, Behlmer filed his petition
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
South Carolina, setting out the action before the Commission,
and the failure of the companies to comply with the order;
and prayed for a writ of injunction or other proper process
restraining the companies from continuing in their violation
and disobedience to said order.
On final hearing the Circuit Court entered a decree dismissing the bill. 71 Fed. Rep. 835. Behlmer appealed to the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit and that
court reversed the decree of the Circuit Court and directed
that the order of the Interstate Commerce Commission be
enforced. 42 U. S. App. 581.
An appeal was then allowed and perfected to this court,
which operated as a supersedeas, and Behlner now moves the
court to declare the appeal not to have that effect; or to
vacate the supersedeas resulting from the allowance of the
appeal and the approval of the bond tendered.
The sixteenth section of the act of February 4, 1887, c. 104,
to regulate commerce, 24 Stat. 379, as amended by the act
of March 2, 1889, c. 382, 25 Stat. 855, under which resort
to the Circuit Courts could be had for the enforcement of
lawful orders or requirements of the Interstate Commerce
Commission, provided that: "When the subject in dispute

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

shall be of the value of two thousand dollars or more, either
party to such proceeding before said court may appeal to the
Supreme Court of the United States, under the same regulations now provided by law in respect of security for such
appeals; but such appeals shall not operate to stay or supersede the order of the court or the execution of any writ or
process thereon."
At the date of the passage of these acts the rapid growth
of the country and the. steady increase of its litigation had so
congested the docket of this court that years frequently
elapsed before appeals and writs of error could be heard.
When then the Interstate Commerce Commission was created
and provision made for the enforcement of its orders by the
Circuit Courts, while appeals were allowed from the decrees
of those courts to this court, it was the legislative will that
such appeals should not suspend the operation of the decrees
appealed from. It is quite true that if the Circuit Court
reversed the order of the Commission and dismissed the petition, the question of superseding such a decree might not be
material, but, as the section provided that either party might
appeal, the inhibition on the effect of the appeal applied alike
to either.
The primary object of the Judiciary Act of March 3, 1891,
was to relieve this court of the overburden of cases which
impeded the prompt administration of justice. .cEisb v.
Rof,14:1 U. S,661. Accordingly all cases in which the judgments and decrees of the Circuit Courts of Appeals were
made final by the act can only be brought to this court on
certiorari, although in other cases, of which this is one, appeal
or error will lie. The act also provided that when a case
reaches this court through the Circuit Court of Appeals, by
appeal, writ of error or certiorari, the cause shall be remanded
to the proper District or Circuit Court for further proceedings
in pursuance of the determination of this court, exactly as
if the case came here directly from the District or Circuit
Court.
Assuming that section sixteen of the Interstate Commerce
Act remained unrepealed, it was nevertheless so far affected

LOUISVILLE &c. RAILROAD v. BEULAMER.

617

Opinion of the Court.

as that"the appeal from the trial court had to be prosecuted
to the Circuit Court of Appeals instead of to this court.
Jnterstate Commerce Commission v. Atchison, Topeka &c.
.Railroad,149 U. S. 264.
But such appeal would not operate to supersede the decree
of the trial court, nor would such decree be superseded if the
case were brought to this court from the Circuit Court of
Appeals, even though the judgment of the latter court were
superseded. In this case the petition was dismissed by the
Circuit Court. The Court of Appeals reversed that decree,
but it still remained in force because the judgment of the
Circuit Court of Appeals had been superseded. If the Circuit
Court had decreed the enforcement of the order of the Commission, and the Circuit Court of Appeals had affirmed that
order, and then the case had been brought here, the result
would have been the same.
This application of the plain words of the statute gives the
same effect to the appeal to this court from the intermediate
court as if the appeal had been taken directly to this court
from the Circuit Court.
Section eleven of the act of March 3, 1891, provided among
other things as follows: "And all provisions of law now in
force regulating the methods and system of review, through
appeals or writs of error, shall regulate the method, and system of appeals and writs of error provided for in this act
in respect of the Circuit Courts of Appeals, including all provisions for bonds or other securities to be required and taken
on such appeals and writs of error, and any judge of the
Circuit Courts of Appeals, in respect of cases brought or to
be brought to that court, shall have the same powers and
duties as to the allowance of appeals or writs of error, and
the conditions of such allowance, as now by law belong to
the justices or judges in respect of the existing courts of the
United States respectively."
And it is argued that the words "all provisions for bonds
or other securities," which were in force at the time of the
adoption of the act of 1891, include as applicable to appeals
from the Circuit Courts of Appeals the provision of section

OCTOBER TERMTV1, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

sixteen of the Interstate Commerce Act, that the appeal
therein referred to shall iot operate to stay or supersede.
We cannot accede to that view, for the appeal treated of in
section sixteen is an appeal from the trial court, and does
not refer to an appeal from the Circuit Courts of Appeals.
"Either party to such proceeding before said court may
appeal," is the language, and as "said court" confessedly
referred to the Circuit Court, the only question would be
whether the scope of the provision had been enlarged by
the act of 1891, in the matter under consideration, which
we do not think it had.
When cases are brought here from the Circuit Courts of
Appeals, we are, of course, called on to review the judgments
of those courts, in revision of the judgments of the courts below, but our mandate goes to the court of first instance, and
is there carried into effect, though the Court of Appeals may
have sent its own mandate down before the case was brought
to this court by appeal, writ of error or certiorari. Thee Conqueror, 166 U. S. 110.
The rule prescribed by the statute has necessarily not been
changed by the omission to striotly observe it in the entry of
judgment in some cases.
Motion denied.

