WETZEL v. xINIESOTA RAILWAY CO PANY.

237

Statement of the Case.

This view being decisive of the case, it becomes unnecessary
to consider the defence of laches, or that of the statute of
frauds; and a discussion of the testimony in detail could be
of no value as a precedent, and would serve no useful purpose. Hlarrellv. Beall, 17 Wall. 590; Tyler v. Campbel, 106
U. S. 322.
-Decree afflrmed.

WETZEL

v. MINTESOTA RAILWAY
COMPANY.

TRANSFER

APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 94. Argued January 25, 1898. -Decided

February 21, 1898.

The decree of the Circuit Court, affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals,
dismissing the bill in this case on the ground of laches was correct, and
that decree is affirmed.

THIS was a bill in equity filed in the United States Circuit
Court for the District of Minfiesota, by the widow (since
remarried) and heirs at law of George W. Remsen against the,
Minnesota Railway Transfer Company, and over two hundred
other defendants, to establish title to one hundred and- sixty
acres of land situate within the corporate limits of the city of
St. Paul, which the complainants contended was held in trust
for them by the defendants. The land was estimated to be of
the value of over one million dollars.
The facts of the case are substantially as follows: George
W. Remsen was a private in Company K, Third Regiment,
United States Infantry, and served in the M exican war. By
virtue of his enlistment as a soldier he became entitled, under
section 9 of the act of Congress of February 11, 18417, c. 8,
9 Stat. 123, to locate a quarter section of government land,
subject to private entry, under the regulations and restrictions
established by the Commissioner of the General Land Office.
This section further provided that in case of the death of

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

the soldier his right under the act should descend to his widow
and minor children ; and, further, that in the event of the
issuance of a land warrant to the minor children of a deceased
soldier "thou the legally constituted guardian of such minor
children shall, in conjunction with such of the children, if any,
as may be of full age, upon being duly authorized by the
orphans' or other court having probate jurisdiction, have
power to sell and dispose of such certificate or warrant for the
benefit of those interested."
Remsen died in the military service in October, 184:7, and
thereafter a land warrant was issued on September 30, 1848,
to "Elizabeth Remsen, widow, Harriet A. Remsen, Mary Ann
Remsen, John W. Remsen, Elizabeth Remsen and George
W. A. :Remsen, children, heirs at law, of George W. IRemsen,
deceased."
On October 6, 1848, Mrs. Remsen qualified as
guardian of all the minor children of :Remsen, (except
Harriet A., who was then seventeen years of age,) before the
orphans' court for the county of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
The land warrant issued to the widow and minor children of
IRemsen was never located by any or either of them, but was
sold and assigned on October 11, 184:8, to one Nathan C. D.
Taylor, of St. Croix County, Territory of Minnesota, who subsequently located it upon the land in controversy and to whom
a patent was issued by the Government on March 20, 1850,
and from whom all the defendants in this case, directly or
indirectly, claim title.
The sale and assignment of the warrant were made without
an order authorizing or confirming it, so far as appears, of
the orphans' court appointing Mrs. Remsen as guardian, and
were consummated by Mrs. Remsen, acting in her own right
and as the guardian of the minor children, with whom was
joined Harriet A. Remsen.
It was contended by the complainants in the Circuit Court,
as well as in the Circuit Court of Appeals, that the sale and
assignment of the land warrant to Taylor were utterly void as
to the interests of all the minor children of George W. Remsen, other than Harriet A., who joined in the assignment,
because the sale and assignment made by the mother as guar-

WETZEL v. A=.L ESOTA RAILWAY COiVEANY.

239

Opinion of the Court.

dian was not authorized by any order or decree of the orphans'
court of the county of Philadelphia.
The Circuit Court dismissed the bill on the ground lof laches.
56 Fed. Rep. 919. Upon appeal that decree was affirmed by
the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit. 27 U. S.
App. 594. Whereupon the complainants appealed to this
court.
-Mr. Ernest Howard Hunter and -Mr. John IF. Hinsdale for
appellants.
-Mr. Cushman Z. Davis for appellees. Mr. Frank B.
Eellogg and fr. C. A. Severance were on his brief.
MR. JusTicE BnowN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The Circuit Court dismissed this bill on the ground of laches,
and the Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed its action. There
can be no doubt whatever of the correctness of this conclusion. Indeed, a stronger case for the application of the doctrine of laches can scarcely be imagined. The warrant, which
was issued in 1848, entitled the widow and minor children of
Remsen to a grant of one hundred and sixty acres of public
hands. This warrant was never located by the persons to
whom it was issued, who appeared to have lived in Philadelphia, and to have been in straitened circumstances.
The warrant was sold by them in 1848 to Nathan C. D.
Taylor, and there is nothing to show that it did not realize for
the widow and heirs its market value. Indeed, the Court of
Appeals found that it was sold for its full value, and the widow
testified that the proceeds were applied to the support of her,self and the minor children of the deceased soldier. No fraud
in the transaction was alleged or proved. Nothing appears to
impeach the validity of the sale, except the fact that the widow,
who had been appointed guardian of all the minor children,
except the eldest, did not procure the consent of the orphans'
court in Philadelphia to make the sale, as required by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

statute. This was doubtless a technical defect; but it did not
show that the warrant was not actually transferred by the
widow, acting for herself and her children, (except one who
consented in her own behalf,) or that they did not receive full
consideration for such transfer.
It is true that the locator and his grantees in possession may
have been in law chargeable with the knowledge that an order
of the orphans' court was never obtained; but in view of the
fact that the widow and heirs of Remsen lived in Philadelphia, a thousand miles from St. Paul, it is scarcely a matter
of surprise that they did not investigate this subject with that
care which they probably would have exercised had that court
been more accessible. Particularly is this so, when it is considered that the officers of the land department, subsequently
and after a full review of the facts, decided the warrqnt to
have been properly transferred to Taylor, and issued a patent
to him.
It was not the foresight of the widow or heirs of IRemsen
which caused this warrant to be located upon lands so near to
the thriving city of St. Paul, but that of Taylor, who appears
to have been a resident of Minnesota; and this suit is a manifest attempt. of the complainants to take to themselves the
benefit of his action, in which they did not participate and of
which they were entirely ignorant for over thirty years after
the location had been made.
Conceding that the minors were not affected by laches until
they became of age, it appears that the youngest of them
reached his majority in 1863, at which time the lands were
worth about 81500. Then, if not before, the exercise of diligence became incumbent upon them. It was their duty to have
informed theniselves and to have acted. It is scarcely possible
that they should not have known that their father was a soldier in the Mexican war, and they were chargeable by law with
knowledge of the fact that he was entitled to a land warrant.
If they did not know this as a matter of fact it was because
their mother and eldest sister had failed to inform them of it;
and it is inequitable to charge upon the defendants the entire
consequences of this ignorance.

WETZEL v.

=1 ESOTA R AILWAY COMIPANY.

24:1

Opinion of the Court.

Knowledge of the transfer seems to have *finally come to
them, not through any exertion of their own to inform themselves of the facts, but by an accidental meeting with a lawyer
from Minnesota, who had in some way, probably by an examination of the title, become cognizant of the defect in the transfer. It was a mere matter of chance when they would be
informed of the defect in the defendants' title, or whether it
would ever come to their knowledge at all. To permit them
now, after a lapse of forty-four years from the time the warrant
was issued, and of thirty years from the time the youngest
child became of age, to impeach the transaction, would be an
act of the most flagrant injustice to the present holders of the
property. This property, which was probably not worth more
than one or two hundred dollars at the time of the location of
the land warrant, is now estimated to be worth at least a
million, and is covered, or partly covered, by houses and business blocks. In the forty-four years that have elapsed since
the warrant was issued these lands have been platted and sold
in lots to purchasers, who were probably ignorant in fact, if
not in law, of any defect in the title, and relied upon the
validity of the transfer from the widow and heirs of Remsen
and upon the patent from the 'United States, which appears
to have been regularly issued after an examination of all the
facts attending the granting, transfer and location of the land
warrant by the officers of the land department. While the
fact that the complainants were ignorant of the defect in the
title and were without means to prosecute an investigation
into the facts may properly be considered by the court, it does
not mitigate the hardship to the defendants of unsettling these
titles. If the complainant may put forward these excuses for
delay after thirty years, there is no reason why they may not
allege the same as an excuse after a lapse of sixty. The truth
is, there must be some limit of time within which these excuses
shall be available, or titles might forever be insecure. The
interests of public order and tranquillity demand that parties
shall acquaint themselves with their rights within a reasonable
time, and although this time may be extended by their actual
ignorance, or want of means, it is by no means illimitable.
VOL. cLXIx-16

OCTOBER TERTIf, 189L.
Opinion of the Court.

If any authority were needed for the action of the courts
below in dismissing the bill upon the ground of laches, it would
be found in Felix v. Patrick, 145 U. S. 317. In that case a
half-breed woman, belonging to the Sioux nation, received in
1857 a certificate of land scrip, issued under the then existing
law, which provided that no "transfer or conveyance of any
of said certificates shall be valid." Notwithstanding this provision the woman sold the scrip and executed a blank power
of attorney, also a quitclaim deed in blank, in which the name
of the attorney, the description of the land and the name of
the grantee were afterwards filled in by the grantee, who had
caused the papers to be executed. The grantee thereafter
located a tract of land, and subsequently Congress confirmed
his title to the same. The half-breed was ignorant of all these
facts until 1887. In 1888, she having died in the meantime,
her representatives filed a bill in equity against the grantee,
charging him with having fraudulently obtained the power of
attorney and the quitclaim deed, but failing to state when and
how the frauds were discovered. It was held that as the bill
did not state the time when the frauds were discovered, so
that the court might clearly see whether they could have
been discovered before, the bill was fatally defective; and, that
under the circumstances, it would be inequitable to disturb the
title of the defendants, who held adversely as against the halfbreed woman, and not by virtue of the power of attorney or
quitclaim deed, which passed no title, or by the confirmatory
act of Congress which granted no additional rights.
Upon the facts disclosed in this record, it is entirely clear
that the decree of the court below was correct, and it is
therefore
.Affirmed.

