JANUARY ,TERM, 1839.

WILLIAM B. BEND VS. JEssE HOYT.
The plaintiff, as the importer of certain merchandise from England, entered the same at the
customhouse in New York, on the 29th of March, 1837, as cases containing cotton
gloves. He gave a bond for the duties, payable on the 27th of June, 1838. In 1838,
it was discovered that one of the cases, No. 45, contained silk hose, and not cotton gloves.
The plaintiff paid the bond to the collector, under protest; and claimed from the comptroller of the treasury, to be released from the payment of the duties on case No. 45,
alleging, that as silk hose, they were not liable to duty under the act of Congress of 14th
Juty, 1832. The plaintiff instituted a suit against the collector, to recover back the duties
so paid by him. Held, that the suit could not be sustained, after so long a time from the
entry of the merchandise. Held, that silk hose, and all manufactures of silk, of which
silk is the component material of chief value, coming from this side of the Cape of Good
Hope, except sewing silk, are free of duty.
Even Courts of Equity will not interfere to assist a party to obtain redress for-an injury
which he might, by ordinary diligence, have avoided. And, a fortiori a Court of law
ought not, when the other party has by his very acts and omissions lost his own proper
rights and advantages.
A collector is generally liable in an action to recover back an excess of duties paid to him
as collector, when the duties have been illegally demanded, and a protest of the illegality
has been made at the time of payment, or notice given that the party means to contest
the claim. Nor is there any doubt that a like action generally lies, where the excesi of
duties has been paid under a mistake of fact, and notice thereof has been given to the
collector before he has paid over the money to the government.

ON a certificate of division of opinion from Circuit Court of the
United States, for the southern district of New York.
This suit was originally instituted in the Superior Court of New
York, and was afterwards brought before the Circuit Court of the
southern district of New York, by a -certiorari. An action of assumpsit was instituted against the collector of the port of New
York, to recover the sum of one hundred and twenty-seven dollars,
paid to him by the plaintiff, for the importation of silk hose. The
duty was levied at the rate of twenty-five per centum ad valorem,
"as hosiery," under the second article of the second section of the
act of Congress of 14th July, 1832, entitled "an act to alter and
amend the several acts imposing duties on imports."
Upon the trial it was proved, that on the 29th of March, 1837,
the plaintiff made an entry at the customhouse in New York, of
eight cases of cotton gloves, and that the duty was levied on each of
the eight packages of twenty-five per centum ad valorem; for which
duty, with the duties on other goods, the plaintiff gave a bond for
two hundred and ninety-four dollars, payable on the 27th June,
1838.

The plaintiff on making the entry, made the usual affidavit to
the truth of the invoice and bill of lading produced by him, and
that the invoice produced by him was the true invoice of the cost
of, the goods, and that if any error was discerned in the invoice
or cost of the goods, he would immediately make the same known
to the collector.
It was proved, that in the year 1838, it was discovered -that case

264

SUPREME COURT.
Wiliam B. Bend vs. Jese-Hoyt.]

No. 45, one of the packages in, the.invoice, did not contain cotton
gloves, but actually contained sihk hose, and that one hundred and
.twenty-seven dollars and ninety-two cents, were bonded by the plaintiff, undeT the belief that the case contained cotton gloves. On the
28th June, 1838, the plaintiff served a protest on the collector,
against, the payment of the bond given to secure the duties. The
protest stated, that the bond had been given under a clear misapprehension of the nature of the goods, and claimed a deduction
from 'the bond of the amount of the estimated duties on box No. 45,
siipposing the box to contain cotton gloves.
The plaintiff had previously, requested the comptroller of 'the
treasury to release him from the payment of the duties; and the
comptroller iu'reply, refused to correct "errors in fact."
On the trial of the cause, the collector introduced and read to the
jury, to show the habitually loose mariner in which the plaintiff
trnsacted his' business, an affidavit made by the plaintiff on the
25th of April, 1838.
The affidavit stated, 4 that on the 27th day of March, 1837, he
imported in the ship Roscoe, from Liverpool, eight cases and casks
of hosiery and gloves, marked B 38 to 45, owned by Barker and
Adam§, manufacturers of Nottingham, England, and consigned by
them to him, the said William B. Bend, for sale; that his clerk not being
able to ascertain from the wording of the invoice, which packages
contained gloves, and which hosiery, And knowing that cotton gloves
and cotton hosiery paid the same duty,,he entered them all upon
arrival at the customhouse; in the port of New York, as cotton
gloves; that a duty of twenty-five per centum was charged upon
them by th, collector of the said port, and that he, the said Bend,
gave bonds to the said collector, to pay the said duties ; that on examination of the goods contained in one of the af.resaid cases,
marked B 45, he found them to be spun silk hoisery, and not cotton
gloves, as entered by him at the customnhouse; and furthermore,
that the goods are called, upon tl/e original invoice, passed at the
customhouse, "spun knots ;" a term which is well known in the
trade to be applied to hosiery of silk only: and that he ve 'iy believes the error of entering the said case, and paying duty, arose from
the ignorance of his clerk who made. the entry; that he, the said
Bend, did not upon this, nor does he upon any occasion, examine
whether the customhouse entries, made by the. said clerk, are cortect. And' the said William B. Bend, further maketh oath, that he
has never sold any part of the said case, B 45, and that, to the best
of his knowledge and belief, nothing has been ever taken from or
added to it, but that it is in every respect in the same condition as
it was when he received it."
It was also proved, that the package No. 45, was never, in the
custody of the collector, nor subjected to the examination of the
public appraisers; and that the first intimation the collector had that
it contained silk, was in*March or April, 1838.
It was also proved,, that the merchandise contained in the pack-

JANUARY TERM, 1839.
(William B. Bend vs. Jesse Hoyt.]

age No. 45, was silk hose, made of the tow of silk, a coarse quait
of silk, but still silk, sometimes called sponged silk; and that the
said merchandise was well known, in cohwmerce, under the denomination of hosioiy.
Upon the foregoing evidence, given during the progress of the
trial, the following points were presented on the part of the defendant, for the opinion of the judges, on each of which the judges
were divided in opinion.
1. Whether, assuming that an excess of duties was paid by
mistake, under the facts above stated to the collector, on the before
mentioned package, No. 45, the plaintiff, under the said facts, is entitlad to recover back such excess, in a personal action against the
collector ?
2. Whether the said silk hose was subject to the payment of the
duty imposed on "hoisery" by the second clause of the second section of the act of July 14th, 1832, entitled "an act to alter and
amend the several acts imposing duties on imports;" or whether,
as manufactures of silk, not being sewing silk, the goods, wares,
and merchandise, contained in said package, No. 45, were exempted
from the payment of duty by the fourth section of the act of March
2d, i833, entitled "an act to modify the act of the fourteenth of
July, one thousand eight hundred :and thirty-two, and all other acts
imposing duties on imports;" which declares that all manufactures
of silk, or of which silk is the component material of chief value,
coming from this side of the Cape of Good Hope, except sewing
silk, shall be free?
Which said points, upon which the disagreement happened, are
stated under the direction.of the judges of the said Court, at the
request of the counsel for the parties in the cause, and ordered to
be certified unto the Supreme Court of the United States, at the
next session.
The case was argued by Mr. Raymond and Coxe, for the plaintiff; and by Mr. Grundy, the Attorney General of the United States,
for the defendant.
Mr. Justice SToRY delivered the opinion of the Court.-

This ease comes before us upon a certificate of division of opinion
of the judges of the Circuit Court of the southern district of New
York. The original suit was assumpsit to recover back from the
deferidant, who is the collector of the port and xlistrict of New York,
a sum of money paid as duties upon certain imported goods, upon
the ground that they were not liable to duty Upon the trial it
appeared, that on the 29th of March, 1837, an entry was made by
the plaintiff, as consignee, at the customhouse of New York, of
eight cases of cotton gloves, marked B, numbered from 38 to 45, as
imported from Liverpool, England. The case, number 43, was
designlated on the invoice to be examined, and was passed as correct; whereupon the duty was levied upon each of the eight packVoL. XIII.-Z
34

SUPREME COURIT.
[William B. Bend vs. Jessq Hoyt.]

age's at 25 per centum ad valorem, as being cotton gloves; which
duty was secured by a bond, which became due on the 27th of
June, 1838. Upon making the entry, the-invoice of the goods was
produced, and the comrlon oath on such occasions taken and subscribed in the form prescribed by law. It was proved, that in the
year 1838, it was discovered by the plaintiff, that the case numbered
41 did not contain cotton gloves, but actually contained silk hose ;
and that the plaintiff had paid $127 92 for duties, under the belief
that the package contained cotton gloves. On the 25th of April,
1838, the plaintiff addressed a letter to the comptroller of the treasury, requesting to be released from, the payment of the duty.; to
which the comptroller replied on the 27th of the same month, refusing to do so, upon the ground that whether the goods were composed of silk or of cotton was clearly a matter of fact, and should
have been settled before the removal of the goods from the customhouse; and that he did not feel authorized to make the plaintiff's
case an exception to the uniform and long established rule of the
department, by pbrmitting a revision of the entry. On the 26th of
June, 1838s, the plaintiff addressed a letter to the defendant, informing him that no duties were payable on the goods; and that in paying the amount he should do it under protest, reserving his legal
rights. It was further proved, that the package number 45 never
was in the custody of the collector, nor subjected to the examination
of the public appraisers; and that the first inti~nation that the collector had, that it contained silk hose, was in March or April, 1838.
The merchandise contained in the package number 45 was silk hose
made of the tow of silk, a coarse quality of silk, but still silk, sometimes called Sponged silk; and was well known in commerce under the
denomination of hosiery. An affidavit of the plaintiff was read in
evidence by the defendant, to show the habitually loose manner
in which the plaintiff transacted his business with the customhouse;
and in which, among other things, the plaintiff attributed the error
in the entry at the customhouse to the ignorance of his own clerk in
making the entry, and not being able to hnderstand, from the wording
of the invoice, which packages contained gloves,,and which hosiery.
Upon this evidence the following points were presented by the
defendant for the opinion of the judges, on each of which the judges
were divided in opinion. 1. Whether, assuming that an excess of
duties was paid by mistake, under the facts above stated, to theF
collector, on the before mentioned package number 45, the plaintiff,
under the said facts, is entitled to recover back such excess in a personal' action against the collector. 2. Whether the said silk hose
was subject to the payment of duty imposed on hosiery by the
second clause of the second section of the-act of the 14th of July,
1832, ch. 224, entitled, "An act to alter-and amend the several acts
imposing duties on imports;" or whether, as manufactures of silk,
not being sewing silk, the same were exempted from the payment
of duty bythe fourth section of the act of the 2d of March, 1833,
entitled, &c., ch. 854, which declares that. all manufactures of silk, or,

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

267

[William B. Bend vs. Jesse Hoyt.]

of which silk is the component material of chief value, coining from
this side of the Cape of Good Hope, except sewing silk, shall be free.
As to the first question, there is no doubt that the collector is
generally liable in an action to recover back an excess of duties paid
to him as collector, where the" duties have been illegally demanded,
and a protest of the illegality has been made at the time of the payment, or notice then given that the party means to contest the claim;
whether he has paid over the money to the government or not.
Nor is there any doubt that a like action generally lies where the
excess of duties has been paid under a mistake of fact, and notice
thereof has been given to the collector before he has paid over the
money to the government. Both of these propositions are fully
discussed and decided in the case of Elliot vs. Swartwout, 10 Peters'
R. 137; and if the present point involved nothing more, there
would be no substantial ground of controversy. But there are other
ingredients in the present case.
The goods were actually entered by the plaintiff at the customhouse, by a particular description-that of cotton goods iand he
then swore that the invoice then produced by him was the true
invoice received by him, and that the entry contained a just
and true account of the same goods; and. upon the faith of that
entry and oath, the goods were actually delivered to him by the
collector without any examination whatsoever. No notice was
given to the collector of any mistake until nine or ten months
afterwards, when the government was no longer in a conditioi
to ascertain the real state of the facts; and when, of course, it
was compelled to rely exclusively upon the evidence furnished by
the plaintiff. Now, certainly, it was the duty of the plaintiff, before
making the entry at the customhouse, to have exercised due diligence in examining his papers, and ascertaining the true state of the
facts, before he undertook to verify them under the solemnity of an
oath. That he was grossly negligent in this particular is plain from
his own showing; and that the loss, if any has accrued to him, has
accrued from his negligence and inattention to his duty, is equally
clear. The question then arises, whether this action is maintainable, not under ordinary circumstances of innocent mistake, but
under circumstances of culpable negligence on the part of the plaintiff, and when the government can no longer be replaced in the same'
situation in which it stood at the time of the original transaction.
Upon the best consideration which we can. give to the subject, we
are of opinion, that the action, under such circumstances, is not maintainable. If a different rule were to prevail, the whole policy of the
laws for the collection of duties would be broken in upon-; there
would be no certainty whatsoever as to the amount or receipt of the
revenue 3 and the grossest evasions and frauds might be practised
with perfect 'impunity. Instead of the invoice or entry, with the
accompanying oath of the party, furnishing the just means of ascertaining the nature, and quality, and character of the goods imported,

and the amount of duties payable thereon; every thing would be

.268

SUPREME COURT.
(William B. Bend vs. Jesse HoyL

left loose, and open, in case of contest, to the uncertain evidence to
be produced before successive juries. The whole system of guards
introduced into the revenue laws, for the purpose of ascertaining the
nature, quality, description, and value of imported goods, would in
a short time, amount to little more than forms, as vexatious as they
would be inefficacious. The act of 1823, ch. 149, in amendme$
of the former acts for the collection of duties, manifestly lays great
stress on the invoice, produced at the time of the entry of the goods
at the customhouse, and the accompanying oath of the importer; as
ihe truest and best means of ascertaining the nature; and quality,
and values of the goods, and the basis of the duties to be charged
thefeon; as is apparent from the series of sections from the fourth
to the fifteenth sections. Invoices duly verified and authenticated,
are deemed a sufficient title to entry; while others, not so verified
and authenticated, are declared to be deemed to be suspected, and
liable 'to be treated in the same manner as fraudulent invoices. And
the 2 3d section of the act provides, that when goods are admitted to
an entry upon invoice, the collector shall certify the same under 'his
official seal; and no other evidence of the value of such goods shall
be admitted on the part of the owner in any qCourt of the United
States, except in corroboration of such entry. It seems difficult to
resist the conclusion, that though the language of this section is confined in its terms to the invoice value of the goods, because the
duties were to be calculated ad valorem thereby, yet that, consistently with its professed objects, it ought to be deemed equally conclusive as evidence of the nature, quality, and description of the
goods. At all events, it would seem to be against the whole policy
of the act, as well as of the other acts of Congress respecting the
collection of the revenue, to permit a man to enter packages of
goods by one description, under his olemn oath, and thus to withdraw them from the custody of the collector, without any examination of tie contents of the packages; and afterwards to insist upon
another description totally different, and thereby to change the rate
of duties, or to claim an exemption froni all duties. The public inconveniences attendant upon such a practice, would alone be sufficient to repel any ptesumption that Congress intended to authorize
it, unless there were some explicit provision in favour of it; and the
uniform course of the government to disallow it, furnishes strong
evidence that the true construction of the act does not justify the
practice. The consignee had his choice at the time of the entry,
either to rely on. his invoice, or to have the contents of each package examined. He chose the former; and the latter is, on the part
of the government, no longer practicable-at least not so far as to
be satisfactory or certain in its results. The error, if any there has
been, has arisen, as we have already stated, from his own culpable
negligence; and Courts of justice do not sit for the purpose of aiding those who seek redress for supposed mischiefs resulting from
such negligence. Even Courts of equity will not interfere to assist
a party to obtain redress for an injur- which he might by ordinary.

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

269

[William B. Bend vs. Jesse Hoyt.]

diligence have avoided; and, a fortiori, a Court of law ought noti,
where the other party has, by the very acts or omissions, lost his.
own proper rights or advantages.
No case has been cited, and none has come to our knowledge,
where an action has been maintained at law, ufider circumstances.
like the present; where money has been sought to be recovered for
a mistake of fact occasioned by the culpable negligence of the plaintiff, and where the retaining of it on the other side is not unconscientious. The case here cannot be better than it would have been, if
the plaintiff had refused to pay the duty bond; and, to an action
on the bond, he had pleaded in his defence the very matters now
insisted on. It wo.uld certainly have been difficult to have framed
a plea to sustain such a defence in point of law. If the objection
were to be insisted on, that would seem to have been as proper a
mode of meeting it as could have been devised; though, looking to
the penal consequences of not paying a duty bond, as it withdraws
from the party all future credit at the customhouse while it continues, we do not say that the present mode may not also be appropriate.
Lord Mansfield, in Moses vs. Macfarlan, 2 Burr. R. 1005. 1012,.
speaking of an action for money had and received, observed that it
lies for money paid by mistake, or upon a consideration which happens to fail, or for money got through imposition, (express or implied,) or extortion, or oppression, or an undue advantage taken of
the plaintiff's situation, contrary to laws made for the protection of
persons under such circumstances. And he added, in one word, the
'gist of the action is, that the defendant, under' the circumstances of
the case, is obliged, by the ties of natural justice and equity, 'to refund the money. In Bize vs. Dickason, 1 Term Rep. 285, he also.
said: The rule has always been, that if a man has actually paid
what the law would snot have compelled him to pay, but what in
equity and conscience he ought, he cannot recover it back again.
But where money is paid under a mistake, which there was no.
ground to claim in conscience, the party may recover it back again
by this kind of action. Now, admitting the entire correctness of'
this doctrine in its full extent, (and no more than general truth can
be imputed to it,) it leaves the whole matter open upon which the.
present controversy turns; and that is,
whether there is any Want of
conscience in the collector's retaining this money. And it leaves:
wholly unttuched the ground, what would be the. effect if the mistake and the payment consequent thereon, had been the consequence,
of the culpable negligence or misconduct of the plaintiff himself,
without any default on the other side, and where tbiereby he could
not be placed in statu quo. Our opinion is, that, upon principle, under.
such circuwstances, no such action is or ought to be maintainable.
In Milnes vs. Duncan, 6 Barn. and Cresw.,671, the party was allowed,
to recover back money paid under a mistake of fact, there being no,
laches imphtable~to him; and that was the very ground bf the deci.
sion, In that zase, Mr. Justice Bayley said: If a party -pay money,
under a mistake of the law, he cannot recover it back. But if he

SUPREME COURT.
Bend vs. Jesse Hoyt.]
[William 1P.

pay money under a mistake of the real facts, and no laches are imputable to him, in respect of his omission to avail himself of the
,means of knowledge within his power. he may recover back the
money and he added, in this case, the-question is, whether there was,
?n the part of the plaintiff, at the time when he made the payment,
ignorance of the true state of the facts; or any negligence imputable
to him in not availing himself of the means of knowledge within his
power So that we here see it admitted that negligence would con7
stitute a good defence to the suit. In Skyrilig vs. Greenwood, 4
Rarn, and Cresw. 281, it was held that money paid by a paymaster
to an army officer, could not be recovered back again, or claimed
by way of set off, he having been guilty of a breach of duty and of
negligence in not communicating to the officer certain information
of the disallowance of the claim Ofthe officer, on which'the money was
paid by the board of ordnance at an earlier period, when his conduct might have been influenced by it. These cases, although not
exactly in point with the present, clearly show that even in cases of
money paid under a mistake of facts, if the party has been guilty
of negligence, or of a breach of his proper duty in the transaction,
he is not entitled to recover back the money, if paid, or to retain it,
if unpaid, against the other party, whose rights or conduct have
been affected by such negligence or breach of duty. We think the
principle a sound one, and should not hesitate to adopt it, even if
there were no authority to support it. Its application to the circumstances of the present case cannot well be questioned. Here, by the
conduct and solemn affirmations, under oath, of the plaintiff, the
position of the United States has been entirely changed; the property has been delivered up from the custody of the government,
without any search or examination, in th,-. perfect confidence that all
was right; and we think the plaintiff is now estopped from setting up
his own culpable negligence, to excuse him from the payment of
the duties, which, by his own entry and oath, he admitted to be due,
and thereby obtained a delivery of the goods.
In this view of the matter, it might not be necessary for the Court
to answer the other question, ulron Which! the Court below was divided, as our answer to the first decides the merits of the plaintiff's
case. But as the same question is* involved in Hardy vs. Hoyt;
which has been argued in connexion with the present, we shall now
proceed to the consideration of it. The question is, whether silk
hose is subject to the payment of the duty imposed on hosiery by
the second clause of the second section of the duty act of 1832. ch.
224. That section enacts, that from and after the 3d day of March,
1833, on the articles therein after mentioned, there shall be levied,
collected, and paid, the following duties: First, wool, unmanufactured, certain duties specified in the first clause. Second, '(which is
the clause in question,) " On all milled and felled cloth, known by the
name of plains, kerseys, or kendal cottons, of which wool shall be
the only'material, the value whereof shall not exceed thirty-five
cents a square yard, five per centum ad valorem; on worsted stuff

JANUARY TERM; 1839.

271

[William B. Bend vs, esse Hoyt.]

goods,shawls, and other manufactureO of silk and worsted, ten per centum ad valorem; on worsted yarn, twenty per centum ad valorem; on
woollen yarn, four centO per pound, and fifty per cantum ad valorem;
on mits, gloves, bindings) blankets, hbsiery, and carpets and carpetings, twenty-five per cent., except Brusselsj Wilton, and treble
ingrained carpeting, which shall be at sixty-three cents the square
yard, all other ingrained and Venetian carpeting at thirty-five cents
the square yard; and except blanket8, the value whereof at the
place whence exported shall not exceed seventy-five cents each, the
duty to be levied upon which -shall be five per centum ad valorem;
on flannels, bockings, and baizes, sixteen cents the square yard, on
warp laces thirty-five per centum; and upon merino shawls made
of Wool, all other manufactures of wool, or of which wool is a coinponent part, and on ready made clothing, fifty per centum ad valorem." Now, looking to the terms of this clause, and the connexion
in which hosiery stands with the other enumerated articles, the
natural construction of it would certainly be, that it was resfricted
to hosigry, ejusdem generis, that is to say, hosiery of wool, or of
which wool was a component part. It stands in connexion with
mits, gloves, binding, blankets, and carpeting, and the exceptions
carved out of it are all articles composed of wool, viz. certain kinds
of carpetings and blankets. It is followed by flannels, bockings,
and baizes, coach laces, and merino shawls, and then come the
sweeping. words, "all other manufactures of wool, or of which
wool is a component part ;" which certainly seem to presuppose
that all the preceding enumerated articles were of a kindred nature
and fabric. The words "ready made clothing," follow this enumeration, and, therefore, are not necessarily governed by the same
interpretation, 3ince they are not inserted as a qualification of the
sweeping words already referred to, but stand as an independent
descriptive specification, capable of being applied to every variety
of ready made clothing, whatever May be the fabric. No'argument,
therefore, can properly be derived from this part of the clause respecting ready made clothing, to control the natural deductions
arising from the antecedent language of the'same clause.
But the case before us does not turn upon the interpretation of
'the second clause standing alone, but it is-materially affected by the
fifteenth clause of the same section of the act, which prescribes a
rate of duty on manufactures of silk, in the following words: "On
all manufactures of silk or of which silk shall be a component part,
coming from beyond the Cape of Good Hope, ten per centum ad
valorem, and on all other manufactures of silk, or of which silk is
a, component part, five per centum ad valorem, except sewing silk,
which shall be forty per centum ad valorem." Now, this language
in its positive import, includes all manufactures of silk except sewing silk; and the very exception of sewing silk, lends additional
force to the conclusion, that no other manufactures of silk were intended to be excepted from the operation of the clause, upon the
well known maxim, that an exception in a statute amounts to an

272

SUPREME COURT.
(William B. Bend

V8. Jesse

Hoyt.]

affirmation of the application of its provisions to all other cases not
excepted, Upon what ground, then, can this Court say, that silk
hose, being a manufacture of silk, is not solely and exclusively liable
to the duty imposed by the fifteenth-clause of the section ? Upon
none, unless it manifestly appears to be repugnant to-some other
provision of the statute. No such repugnancy exists if ,we construe the word "hosiery," in the second clause of the second Pection to mean, as in its natural connexion it imports, hosiery of wool,
or of which wool is a component part. On the other hand, if w'
construe "hosiery" in this connexion, to include silk hose, then all
other manufactures of silk, except sewing silk, are not governed by
the fifteenth clause; and thus We create a positive repugnancy between the second and fifteenth clauses. Now, it is the duty of
Courts of Justice so to construe all statutes as to give full effect to all
the wordr in their ordinary sense, if this can be properly done; and
thus to preserve the harmony of all the provisions. And" besides,
It we are to'create an implied exception as to hosiery, the same
rule might be applied to silk mits, silk gloves, and silk bindings; and
if there are such articles, to carpetings of silk. Indeed, there woul
be no end to implied exceptions. If the legislature meant specially to except silk hose, or any other particular manufactures of
silk from the general language, the natural course would have been
to have placed them as exceptions with sewing silk; and the onission is, in our judgment, conclusive to show that none others were
intended.
If we look back to-the duty act of the 19th of May, 1828, ch. 55,
which the act of 1832 was designed in a great measure to modify
or supersede, and in which, for the first, time in our legislature,
"hosiery" is mentioned, co nomine; there cannot bena doubt that
the legislative intention, then, was confined to woollen hosiery. The
second clauge of the second section of that act is iw the following
words: "On manufactures of wool, or of which wool shall be a
compo nent part, except carpeting, blanketc, worsted stuff goods,
bombazines, hosiery, mits, gloves, caps, and bindings, the actual
value of which at the place wtfence imported shall not exceed fifty
cents the square yard, shall be deetned to have cost fifty cents the
square yard, and be charged with a duty of forty per centum
ad valorem, &c., &c."
The third, fourth, fifth, and sixth clauses of
the same section lay a particular duty on other manufactures of
wool, "except as aforesaid ;" and then the seventh, taking up the
exception, says, "on woollen blankets, hosiery, mits, gloves, and
bindings, twenty-five per cent. ad valorem.. On clothing ready
made, fifty per centum ad valorem."
It is impossible, reading
these clauses in connexion, not to perceive that the exceptions in
the second clause, are wholly of fabrics of wool, or of which wool
is a component material; for every exception must be considered in
such a case to be of something ejusdem generis. Then follows in
the sixth clause, ' On all manufactures of silk, oi" of which silk is
the component material, coming from beyond the Cape of Good

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

273

[Williani B. Bend vs. Jesse Hoyt.;

Hope, a duty"of twenty per ceptum ad vialorem, &c.; and on all
other manufactures of silk, or of which s4ilk shall be- a comiponent
material, twenty per centum ad valorem." Construing,. hen, these
acts as being in part materia, it we were- at liberty to look beyond
the act of 18$2, to the antecedeht ,state of the law on this subject,

the duty on hosiery, as such, was confined to hosiery of wool, or
of which wool is a component part.
But if any doubt could be entertained upon the act of 1832, ch.
224, interpreted by itself, or by the antecedent laws, we think none
whatsoever can be entertained as to the true intendriient and operation of the act of 2d of, March, 1833, ch. 354. That act in the
fourth section, expressly enacts, that in addition to the articles then
exempted from duty by the act of 1832, and other existing laws,
from the payment of duties, the following articles, imported from
and after the 31st of December, 1833, and unti[.the 30th'pf June,
1842, shall also be admitted free from duty; "to wit, bleached and.
unbleached linens, table linen, linen napkins, and linen cambrics,
and worsted stuff goods, shawls, and other manufactures of silk
and worsted, manufactures of silk, or -of which silk shall be the
component -material: of chief value, coming from this side of the
Cape of Good Hope, except sewing silk." This section, in express
terms, declares that manufactures of silk coming from this side of
the Cape of Good Hope, (which is the very predicament of the silk
hose in question,) except sewing silk, shall be free from duty. And
it would violate every rule of interpretation to hold, that where the
legislature had declared all manufactures of silk, except one, free
from duty,,the Court should create other exceptions by its own authority, without any express or implied intent on the part of the
legislature, manifested in the context to warrant such exceptions.
Upon the whole, we are of opinion, first, that upon -the facts
stated, the present action is not maintainable: and, secondly, that
silk hose is free of duty under the act of 1833. A certificate will
be sent to the Circuit Court, accordingly.

Mr. Justice

THOMPSON,

dissenting.

The amount in controversy in this case is too small to attach muen
importance to it, on that account. 'But the principle involved in the
decision, and the practical effect it is to have upon the cotrse of
business at the customhouse, between the merchant and collector;
must be my excuse for publicly dissenting from the opinion of the
Court, in a case apparently of so little importance in itself.
I fully concur in'that part of the opinion which ekempts the goods
in question (silk hos*'ery) from the payment of anyduty; but dissent
from that part which exonerates the collector from an-action to recovr back. the duties received by him vithout any autb ritywarranted by 'lw.
The.only question presented Dy the point Certified to this Court, is
whether the plaintiff is entitled to recover from the collector a sum
of money, 'admitted to have been paid to him by mistake, without
36

274

SUPREME COURT.
[William B. Bend vs. Jesse Hoyt.]

the least colour or suspicion of fraud or mis-conduct on the part of
the plaintiff; and the mistake made known to the collector before the
money was actually paid, and a claim interposed to have it deducted
from his bond. The opinion of the Court upon the other point certified, settles the question that the 'silk hosiery on which the duty
was paid, was riot subject io duty. The money was therefore in
the hands of the collector, without any right whatever to hold it, and
exacted in violation of law; not a voluntary payment, but demanded
under the penalty,,of a loss of credit at the customhouse, if the bond
was not paid. If, under such circumstances, the money cannot be
recovered back, it must rest upon some stern and unyielding principles of law or public- policy, against the manifest justice of the case.
But, in my judgment, there are no principles of law or public policy
thatcan uphold such a course on.the part of the pollector.
, But it may be proper to state, a little more particularly, the circumstances under which the money was paid to the collector. Upon
'the trial in the Circuit Court, an affidavit of the plaintiff was produced and read in evidence by the defendant-; and he cannot now
be permitted to deny the truth of the facts therein stated. In this
affidavit, the plaintiff states, that in March, 1837, he imported from
Liverpool, in the ship Roscoe, eight cases and casks of hosiery and
gloves, 6wned by Barker and Adams, manufacturers of Nottingham
in England, and consigned by them to him for sale. That his clerk
not being able to ascertain from the wording of the invoice, Which
packages contained gloves and which hosiery, and knowing that
cotton gloves and cotton hosiery paid the same duty; he entered
them all at the Customhouse as cotton gloves, and a duty of twentyfive per cent. was. charged upon them by the collector, and'he gave
bonds for the payment of the duties. That upon an examination of
the goods contained in one of the cases, marked B 45,he found them
to be spun silk hosiery, and not cotton gloves, as entered at the customhouse. That the goods are called upon the original invoice
passed at the customhouse, "spun knots," a term well known in:the
trade to be applied to hosiery of silk only; and that he verily believed, that the error of entry of the said case as paying duty, arose
from the ignorance of the clerk who made the entry. That he did
not upon this, nor does he upon any occasion examine whether the
customhouse entries made by his clerk are correct. And he further
swears, that he had never sold any part of that case; and that, to the
best of his knowledge and belief, nothing had been taken from or
added to it, but that it was in every respect in the same condition
as it was when he received it.
This deposition establishes, beyond all controversy, that the entry
was a pure mistake. And suppose it arose from the ignorance of
the clerk in not understanding the kind of goods called spun knots ?
It was equally the ignorance of the customhouse officer who received
the entry; for not only the oath upon which the entry was made,
states that the original invoice was presented to the collector, upon
which the article is denominated spun knots; but it is required by

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

275

[Wiiam B. Bend vs. Jesse Hoyt.]

law, that the original invoice should be produced to the collector at
the time the entry is made, 1 Story, 606, s. 36. He had therefore
the same means of knowing what the cases contained, as the clerk
who made the entry, the cases not having been opened or examined.
It was, therefore, a case of mutual error or mutual dgnorance.
.There are no grounds whatever for charging the plaintiff with negligence in this case. He pursued the ordinary course of business.
Entries at the customhouse are usually made by clerks. But if no
mistake made by a clerk can be corrected, every merchant will be
obliged to submit in silence to all losses occasioned by mistakes, or
attend in person to make his entries; which will be entirely changing
the course of business. But suppose the plaintiff himself had made
the mistake; can it be that it is beyond the reach of the law to correct
such mistakes. The rule now laid down by the Court would equally
extend to such a case. If there are any grounds whatever to suspect fraud or imposition, it is open to inquiry. But to close the
door again.st correcting innocent mistakes, on any supposed ground
of public. policy, is applying a very severe rule to the transaction of
business at the customhouse, ,and one that, in my judgment, is not
called for to protect the revenue of the country. And the very
form of the oath required by law to be made on the entry, presupposes that mistakes may be committed, and provides for the correction of them. The person on whose oath the entry is made, swears
that the invoice and bill of lading presented to the collector, :is the
true and only invoice of the goods received, and that the entry contaims a just and true account of the goods according to the invoiceand bill of lading, and that nothing to his knowledge has been suppressed or concealed, whereby the United States may be defrauded
of any part of the duty lawfully due on the said goods; and that
if at any time thereafter, he discovers any error in the invoice, or in
the account rendered of the goods, &c., he will immediately make
theame known to the collector. There is nothing in this case to
tale' it out of the rule of law applicable to ordinary innocent mistakes.
The original invoice was produced and laid before the collector
as'by law required, to be examined and compared with the entry;
in which invoice the goods are denominated spun knots. If, therefore, there was any supposed error in the clerk inentering them as
gloves, it was the duty of the collector to have corrected the-error;
and he is as much charigeable with negligence as the clerk. But the
reason why no notice was taken of it, doubtless, was, that, it was altogether unimportant in the view of the collector: for he considered the duty chargeable upon the goods as hosiery, and that it was
perfectly immaterial whether. it was cotton or silk hosiery.
There is nothing in the case to show that the error or mistake was
not immediately made known to the collector, as soon as it was discovered; o that the collector made any objection to correcting it
on that account. And it was in proof that it was made known to
himn before the duties were paid. It having been settled by this

SUPREME COURT.
[William B. Bend vs. Jesse Hoyt.]

Court, that according to the true construction of the acts of Congress,
no duties could be demanded upon this hosiery, there can be no doubt
that if the plaintiff had noc pgid the duties, but suffered his bond to
b6 prosecuted, -this mistake in the estimate of duties might have been
set up by way of defence, and deduction from the bond. The bond
is not given for the payment of any sum certain for the duties; but
in a penalty sufficient to cover the supposed amount, with a condition to pay the amount of duties to be ascertained upon the goods
in the entry referred to, 1 Story, 629, s. 62: and the questionis

therefore open to inquiry, what was the amount due upon the goods
contained in such entry, if any error or mistake has occurred. But
the obligors in the bond cannot permit themselves to be sued, without forfeiting their credit at the customhouse; for the act of Con-'
gress declares, that no person whose bond has been received either
as principal or surety for the payment of 'duties, and which bond
may be due and unsatisfied, shall be allowed a future credit for
duties, until such bond shall be fully paid or satisfied. And the merchant had better submit to the imposition of paying illegal duties,
especially if they are of small amount, than to have his credit suspended at the customhouse until he can try the question in a suit
upon the bond. M6ney exacted unfder such circumstances, is but
little short of duress, if the collector is protected from any suit to recover it back. I cannot believe that there is any principle of law or
public policy, that can be permitted to work such injustice. Due
notice wa* given to the collector before the bond fell due of the mistake, and a claim to have the deduction made upon the bond; and
no pretence on the part of the collector that the notice came too late,
or any suggestion of fraud or unfair conduct .on the part of the plaintiff, The collector therefore acted with full knowjedge of all the
facts-and indeed under an implied admission of the mistake. For
helrofessed to act under the instructions of the comptroller of the
treasury, that no errors of fact could be corrected after the merchan-,
dise had passed beyond the control of the officers of the customs.
'If such be the rule of the customhouse, no errors or mistakes can be
corrected, unless every'package of goods shall be opened and examined at the public stores before- being delivered to the merchant,
which would be contrary to the uniform course of business. But I
trust the instructions of the comptroller are not to be assumed as
law.
Although instructions from the treasury department
may afford
aft apology for the collector, and exonerate him from any intentional
violation of duty, yet it can never be admitted, that they can shield
him from all responsibility, when not warranted by the rules and
principles of law.' If any authority is necessary to support -this
position, it wil be found in the case of Elliot vs. Swartwout, 10
Peters, 153,.where it is expressly laid down, that instructions from
the treasury department cannot change the law or affect the rights
of the parties: that the collector is not bound to take and adopt
such in§tructions, but is,'at liberty to' judge for, himself, -and act

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

277

[William B. Bend vs. Jesse Hoyt.)

accordingly. And, in that case, the personal responsibility of the
collector is fully examined; and his liability held to be governed by
the fact, whether he has paid over the money to the treasury befbre
any notice of a claim to have it refundea has been given to him.
And it is there settled, that where the money has been paid over to
the treasury, without any notice or objection to its being paid over,
it is to be considered a purely voluntary payment!; and no suit can
be maintained against the collector to recover it *back: but when,
at the time of payment, notice is given to the collector that the
duties are charged too high, and accompanied with a declai~ion,
by the party paying the money, that he intends to prosecute him
to recover back the amount erroneously paid, in such cage the collector is personally liable. And the Court" add, that such must
necessarily be the- rule, unless the broad proposition can be maintained, that no action will lie against a collector to recover back an
excess of duties paid him, but that recourse must be had to the
government for redress. Such a principle, say the Court, would be
extending an exemption to a public officer, beyond any protection
sanctioned by any principle of law or sound public policy. And numerous cases iln the English Courts are referred to, where suits have been
maintained against public officers, to recover back money paid to
obtain a release and discharge of goods seized, which were not
liable to seizure: the Courts observing, that the revenue laws ought
not to be made the means of oppressing the subject. And if an
action would lie to reco.ver back money paid to obtain possession
of goods illegally seized, the same principle will sustain an action
to recover back money illegally exacted, under the penalty of forfeiting all credit at the customhouse, due notice having been given
to the collector not to pay it over to the treasury. The true doctrine on this subject is laid down in the case of Bize vs. Dickason, 1
Term. Rep. 286. Lord Mansfield there said the rule had always
been, that if a man has paid what the law would not have compelled him to pay, but what in equity and conscience he ought to
pay, he cannot recover it back in an action for money had and
received: but where nmoney is paid under a mistake, which there
was no ground to claim in conscience, the party may rec6ver it back
again in this kind of action. If this be the true rule, of which I
think there can be -no doubt, the plaintiff has a right to recover
back the money in this case. It is fully proved that it was included
in his bond by mistake, and was held by the collector, without any
right in law or conscience to retain it; and payment of the bond
was exacted under the penalty of forfeiture of credit at the customhouse. If an action against the collector cannot be maintained to
recover back money paid under such circumstances, it is difficult to
conceive a case that would sustain an action.
'This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the southern district
of New York; and on the points and questions on which the judges
VOL. XII.-2 A

278

SUPREME COURT.
[WilliamA B. Bend vs. Jesse Hoyt.]

of the said Court were opposed in opinion, and which were certified
to this Court for its opinion, agreeably to the act of Congress in such
case made and, provided; and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is the opinion of this Court, First, that upon
the facts stated in the case, the plaintiff, Bend, is not entitled to recover back the excess pf duties paid by him on the package number
45, as mentioned in the case. And, Secondly, that silk hose is
entitled to be admitted to entry free of duty, under the act of the 2d
of March, 1833, entitled, "An act to modify the act of the 14th
of July, 1832, and all other acts imposing duties on imports;"
which declares that all manufactures of silk, or of which silk is
the component material of chief value, coming from this side
of the Cape of Good Hope, except sewing silk, shall be free of duty.
Whereupon it is ordered and adjudged by this Court, that it be so
certified p) the said Circuit Court; and that this cause be remanded
to the said Court, that further proceedings may be had therein
according to law.

