JANUARY TERM, 1839.

AxN LUPTON,

APPELLANT, VS. PHINEAS JANNEY,

EXECUTOR

O3

DAVID LUPTON, THE YOUNGER, DECEASED, APPELLEE.
The executor of L. filed hWw
accounts in the Orphans Court of Alexandria, in 1816 and
1818, and settled his final ,atount in 1821. No exceptionswere taken to the accounts.
In November, 1831, a subpoena was issued against the executor, and in June, t838,

a bill was filed by the devisee and legatee against th executor, the object of which

was to surcharge and falsify the accounts filed and settled in the Opbans Court. The
bill did not charge the executor with fraud; but imputed negligence, which was alleged
to amount to a devastavit. No reason was given or facts stated to excuse the long delay
and laches in bringing the bilL Held, that the lapse of time from the settlement of the
accounts of the executor was a bar to this proceeding.
Nothing is more clear than the general rule, that ex -parte settlements of accounts by exe.
cutors in the Orphans Court, being matters within the acknowledged jurisdiction of the
Court in the administration of estates, are ptima facie evidence of their correctness, and
the onus probandi is upon .those who seek to impeach them. ' If they seek to impeach
them, it should l6e by a suit brought, recenti facto, within a reasonable time, and, at
farthest within the period prescribed by the statute of limitations for actions at law pn
matters of account; or else assign some groupd of exception or disability within te

analogy of the statute, to justify'or excuse the delay. Otherwise it will be imputed to
their voluntary laches, and'relief will not be given by a Court of equity.

ON appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States, for the
county of Alexandria, in the district of Columbia.
A bill was fled on-a subpcena which had issued from theCircuit
Court on the fifth day of November, 1831i by Ann Lupton, the sple
devisee and legatee of David Lupton the younger,-for the purpose
of surcharging and falsifying the accounts of, the executor, Phineas
Janney, which had been settled in three accounts rendered by him
to and allo -id by the Orphans. Court :,of Alexandria. The frst
account was rendered and was settled on the 26th of October, 1816.
The second account was settled on the. 16th of April, 1818, and on
the 5th of January, 1821, the -executor rendered and settled his final
account. The bill of the complainant was filed on the 4th day of
June, 1833.
The complainant alleged that the executor was chargeable
with
certain debts due to the estate of the testator, which he had failed
to collect, and for goods of the estate sold by him, the amount .of
which sales had not been paid to him. Certain credits had been
given in the accounts of the executor to parties not entitled to
them; and, in an amended bill, facts are charged which amounted
to a devastavit, which it was alleged were not satisfactorily contradicted by an amended answer. There was no imputation or
charge of fraud in the executor; but it was asserted, that gross negligence was to be imputed to the executor, for which he was answerable de bonis propriis.
The answers of the defendant denied all the allegations in the
complainant's bill, material to charge him as executor of David
Lupton the younger.

382

SUPREME COURT.
[Lupton vs. Janney.]

The defendant also pleaded in his answer, an amended answer,
as follows:
"This respondent admits that the complainant was not present at,
nor summoned to attend the said settlements. But he is advised
and avers that the said settlements were legally made before a
Court having full jurisdiction in the matter, in the due and regular
exercise of its jurisdiction; and the respondent relies on the said
settlements in bar of the jurisdiction of this Court, as a Court of original jurisdiction, in the case stated by the complainant, in the same
manner as if the same were specially pleaded."
Also, "This respondent is advised that an act of the General
Assembly of the State of Virginia, passed the 8th day of March,
1826, entitled 'An act for the limitation of actions against persons
acting in a fiduciary character, and their s.ureties, and other purposes,' is a complete bar to any proceedings against hin. in that
state, and was so when the said amended bill was filed."
In November, 1838, the Circuit Court made a decree dismissing
the complainant's bill; from which decree this appeal was prosecuted.
The case was argued by Mr. Semmes for the appellant; and by
Mr,Jones, with whom was Coxe, for thre appellee.
Mr. Semmes argued the cause on all. the matters contained ir the
bill; but the Court having decided the case on the limitation imposed by time on the complainant's right to recover, the argument
on the point decided is alone given.
Mr. Semmes for the appellant:
In reference to the ground of defence assumed in the amended
answer,, that, the lapse of time intervening between the settlement
of the respondent's accounts and the institution of this suit is'a bar
to any decree for opening those accounts, it may be bbserved, that
the general rule under which equity'denies'a stale, demand is not
indiscriminate or universal in its application: time is not alone sufficient
Every case is. to be decided on its own basis, and it is in
the sound discretion of the court, on weighing the circumstances, to
say if they will grant or deny. the relief. There is not and there
cannot be in the mere lapse of time a peremptory bar, where no
express statute of limitations governs the case. In discouraging
stale demands for the peace of society, Courts of equity have established a necessary rule, but that necessary rule is still a plastic
one, suitable to cases as Courts. may judge it proper,'the necessity
of its-application depending on- many circumstances extrinsic and
independent of the lapse of time. Thus equity will not close its
doors in favour of a fra'ud, though time may have long passed since
it was committed. Where an executor's or administrator's accounts
have been settled in the proper court, ex parte; without r(te6 to
egatees or parties in distribution; the time within which 1., i!to

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

383

(Lupton vs. Janney.]

surcharge and falsify will be entertained, is extended. Whether
the original parties to the transactions sought-to be opened, be alive
or dead, is another material consideration; in the former case the
remedial functions of the chancellor being more easy, and in the
latter case, less easy of access.
Notwithstanding, however, the pliability of the rule, and its
adaptatioi to cases according to their exigency and inherent equity,
the Courts have, in mahy cases where there were -no rebutting circumstances of presumption, intimated, if not expressly fixed, a terminus to this lapse of time. Thus they will in general presume the
payment of a bond, the extinguishment of 4 trust, and the surrender
of a deed, after an" acquiescence of twenty years by the parties .in
interest. A mortgage will be presumed discharged after the same
lapse of time; and an adverse possession of twenty years will ba'r a
bill in equity for the conveyance of the legal title. Yet even this
rule, if rule it strictly be, is not inflexible. Courts frequently step
beyond its limits, in cases where an obvious equity invokes its
exception.
Should this rule apply to the case at bar? The appellant shows
that at the time these accounts were settled in the Orphans Court,
she resided out of the jurisdiction of the Courts in the District-.of
Columbia-that she was the sole legaitee 6f her husband the testator-that the executor whom she now seeks to charge was a brother-in-law of the testator, and that she had unbounded confidence
in him-that his executorial accounts. were all settled ex parte, and
without notice of any kind to her. She shows acts of gross omission
to collect debts, and culpable negligence on the part of the executor,
amounting to a devastavit. She shows that he has lost from ten
to fifteen thousand dollars to her husband's estate by his neglect.
Moreover, the original parties are all 'alive-the appellant, the
legatee, and cesfui que trust; and the appellee, the executor, and
trustee. The lapse of time, from the settlement of the final account
to the issue of the subpcena, is ten years and ten months-to the
filing of the bill about twelve years. The lapse of time, from the
devastavit charged to the filing of the bill, is about sixteen years.
It is not necessary to cite authorities in regard to the defence
against stale demands, nor to show the various modifications that
doctrine has undergone -in its application to different cases. One or
two cases from Virginia may, however, be iquoted, as ruling the
present question. The Courts of that state allow an- executor's
accounts to be opened after a much greater lapse ofirne than
twenty years, and even after the death of the original parties. In
Burwell's Executors vs. Anderson's Administrator, &c., 8 Leigh,
348, the Co art held lapse of time no bar, though thirty-one years
had passed since the first testator's death. The executor of the
distributee of the testator's widow was allowed to file his bill against
the representatives of the executor of the first testator, surcharging
and falsifying the accounts which had been settled, after a lapse of
thirty-one years, and time was held no-bar. The cases of Hudson

384

SUPREME COUR7
[Lupton w.Jmey.]

et al. vs. Hudson's Executor, 3 Rand. 117, and Todd et- ux. vs.
Moore's Administrator, 1 Leigh, 457, though the relief prayed was
denied under the peculiar circumstances,. establish the general principle for which we contend.
Mr. Jones, for the appellee, contended, that even if the mattet of the bill came at all within the cognizance' of the Circuit Court for original relief in equity, yet neither the bill itself, nor
-any thing disclosed in the progress of the cause, lays any sufficient
foindation for the interference,f equity in tht matter; but, on the confr-ry, all the pretences for charging the executor by surcharging and
falsifying the past settlement in the Orphans Court, are strictissimi
juris, at best; and it is positively uriconscientious and inequitable
-frthe complainant-to set up after her long acquiescence, with actual
nAotice and knowledge of the circumstances that give colour to the
principal objections now. raised against the past settlement.
2. That far less than the actual length of time during which she
implicitly acquiesced in the settlement before she filed her bill, would,
under the circunrgtances of the case, have presented a positive bar
in equity to charges against the executor, so strictly penal in their
grounds and their consequences, calling for forfeiture rather than
restituti6n; and so entirely'clear of all imputation of fraud, as those
upon which alone she has founded her claims.
The settlements in the Orphans Court, 'made by the executor,
Rre prima facie evidence of their correctness. This is on the supposition that the parties interested in them had notice of the settlements.
If they had not notie, or it was not supposed, they had had nbtice,
the accounts would not have been allowed to be filed.
'There was notice. The time of settlement of the accounts of an
executor is fixed and limited. This is, sufficient tq show that every
one. who had an interest in-the accounts had a knowledge of them,
or, migh~t have known .of their having been filed. At all times the
accounts were open to the inspection of any one who might think
proper to examine them.
Sixteen and a half years fromthe settlement of the first account,
and twelve and a half from the filing of the final account, had
elapsed before the bill in this case was exhibited. While it is admitted that as to persons acting in a fiduciary character there is no
limitation in cases of fraud, this principle does not apply when no
fraud is charged; and nohe is charged or imputed in this case. It
is contended, that after a reasonable time, the settlement in the Orphans Court, by the executor, is a bar.
All the matters set up in the complainant's bill were proper for
examination on exceptions to the accounts of the executor in the
Orphans Court; and will the Court, after twelve years of silence,
allow a party; passing by the Orphans Court, and neglecting to use
the means of redress which that Court would have afforded for any
misfeasance or omissions of the executor; to come into the. Circuit
Court by an original bill, and set up these matters? When a tech-

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

385

[Lupton v8. Janney.]

nical devastavit is charged against an executor, without an allegation of fraud, it is a tort, and there is a limitation. This is not
claimed to be the rule in cases of fraud.
The Court declined hearing Coxe for the appellee.
Mr. Justice S'ronY delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is a case of an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of
the county of Alexandria, dismissing a bill in equity brought by the
appellant, Ann Lupton, the widow and devisee of the testator, David Lupton. The bill was first filed in June, 1833, although a subpmna was issued in November, 1831, and it seeks to open the accounts of the administration, upon the allegation of certain errors
and omissions therein, as they were settled in three successive accounts of the executor, rendered ex parte, and allowed in the Orphans Court of Alexandria, in Octoberr 1816, in April, 1818, and
in January, 1821. The bill charges, among other things, that the
estate was charged by the executor with the payment of a supposed
debt of $4459 43, to one Peter Saunders, without any sufficient or
legal evidence that it was in fact due. It also charges that the executor omitted to collect of John M'Pherson andSon a debt due to the
estate of $4083 50, upon their note; and.also specifies certain credits which have been omitted to be given by the executor; and contains a general allegation that other debts have been lost to the
estate by the negligence of the executor. The prayer of the bill is
in effect to open the accounts, with general liberty to surcharge and
falsify. There is no charge in the bill that the executor has been
guilty of any fraud; nor any reason given, nor facts stated, to excuse the long delay and laches in bringing the bill. The answer
denies all equity, and. insists upon the correctness of the accounts
as settled, and contains a full explanation, in reply to the specific
charges of the bill. It also relies on the settlement of the accounts
in the Orphans Court, and the lapse of time, as a bar to the suit.
The oplnion which we have formed upon this last point, renders
it wholly unnecessary for us to consider several others which have
been discussed at the bar; and especially the objection, that the Orphans Court has exclusive jurisdiction over the matters in controversy. We place this case wholly upon the ground of the lapse of
time since the accounts were settled in the Orphans Court, a period,
from twelve to sixteen years before the filing of the bill; the total
omission of the bill to state any facts, or circumstances to account
for or excuse this long delay; and the absence of any suggestion of
fraud in the settlements. Nothing is more clear than the general rule
that ex parte settlements of accounts.-of this sort, in the Orphans
Court, being matters within the acknowledged jurisdiction of the
Court in the administration of estates, are prima facie evidence of
their own verity and .corr.ectness; and the onus probandi is upon
those who seek to impeach them. If they seek to impeach them, it
should be by a suit brought recenti facto, \within a reasonable time;
49
VOL. XIII.-2 K

386

SUPREME COURT.
[Lupton vs. Janney.-)

and at farthest, within the period prescribed by the statute of limitations for.actions at law upon matters of account; or else to assign
some ground of exception or disability, within the analogy of the
statute, to justify or excuse the delay. Otherwise it will be imputed
to their own voluntary laches; and Courts of equity are never active in lending their aid to stale and neglected claims, for the known
maxim of such Courts is, vigilantibus, non dormientibus leges subveniunt. We .do not deem it necessary to refer to any authorities
on this point, as it has been so long and so fully recognised in this
Court ; and upon this short ground, we are all of opinion that the
decree of the Circuit Court dismissing the bill ought to be affirmed,
with costs.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Columbia, holden in and for the county of Alexandria, and was argued
by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is ordered and decreed by
this Court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court in this cause be,
and the samne is hereby, affirmed, with costs.

