SUPREME COURT.

JONATHAN MEREDI'TH AND 'THOMAS ELLICOTT, PLAINTIFFS
ERROR, vs. THE UNITED STATES, DEFENDANTS IN ERROR.

IN

An action was instituted by the United States, to recover from the assignees' of S. Smith
and Buchanan, insolvent merchants, the duties on merchandise imported by them, and
for which bonds had been given, but which remained unpaid. The United States had
retained, from money awarded under the treaty with France to Lemuel Taylor, who was
the surety in the bonds, a sufficient sum to pay the bonds; but had not appropriated the
same towards their satisfaction. The assignees claimed to set off against the demand
of the United States the amount due by Lemuel Taylor to the estate they represented,
he having been discharged by the insolvent laws of Maryland. The Court said; "whatever might be the merits of such an equitable claim, in any suit brought by Lemuel
Taylor, the insolvent, or by his assignee, against S. smith and Buchanan, or against
their assignees; it could have no proper place in a suit brought by the United States to
recover denands justly due to them for duties. 'Itwas to them rcsinter alios acta, and
the United States were not called upon to engage in, or to unravel any of the accounts
and set-offs existing between those parties, in a suit at law like the present," ,
The importeds of goods'do, in virtue of the importation thereof, become personally indebted
to the United States for the duties thereon;--and the remedy of'the United States for the
duties is not exclusively confined to the, lien on the goods,'and the security of the bond
given for the duties. The duties 3ue upon all goods imported constitute a personal
debt due- to' the United States from the importer; independently of any lien on the goods
and of any bond given for the duties. The jonsignee of goods imported is for this purpose treated as the owner and importer.
The right of the government to the duties accrues, in the fiscal sense of the term, when
the goods have arrived at the port of entry. The debt for the duties is then due, although
it may be payable afterwards accordirig to the regulations of acts of Congress.
The debt due to the United States for duties on imported nerchandise, is not extinguished
Ib the giving of bonds, with surety, for the same. The revenue collection act of 1799,
128, requires that the collector should take the bonds for the duties from all the persons who are the importers; whether they be partners, or part owners.
The government of the United States have a right to retain money in their hands belonging
to a surety in a bond given foq duties which is unpaid, until a suit shall be terminated
for the recovery of the amoun of the duties on 'the goods due by the importers. The
government'is not obliged to appropriate the money of the surety to the satisfaction of
the bond, but may hold it as a security until the suit is determined.

IN error from the Circuit Court of the United States for the district of Maryland.
The United States instituted an action of assumpsit against Jonathan
Meredith and Thomas Ellicott, to recover from them, as the assignees
of Samuel Smith, James A. Buchanan, and Thomas A. Buchanan,
formerly trhding as merchants under the firm of S. Smith and Bu-.
chanan, a certain amount due to the United States for duties; the
United States claiming a right of priority of payment against the
estate in the hands of the trustees. The deed of trust to the plaintiffs in error was executed by S. Smith and Buchanan, on the 9th
of November, 120.

In July, 1818, there was imported into Baltimore, by S. Smith
and Buchanan, ,and by Hollins and M'Blair a quantity of merchandise from Canton on board the brig Unicorn, and in February,
1810, the same persons imparted from Calcutta a.quantity of merchandise on board of the ship Brazijihn,. In the importation by the

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

487

[Meredith et a. vs. The United States.)

Unicorn, S. Smith and Buchanan had an interest of two-thirds, and
of five-ninths in the cargo of the Brazilian; the remaining interest
in both importations belonging to Hollins and M'Blair.
Entries of the merchandise of both cargoes were made by John
Smith Hollins, one of the joint importers, and a partnef-in the firm
of Hollins and M'Blair; who, with James A. Buchanan, also one
of the joint importers, and, a partner in the firm of S. Smith and
Buchanan, and a certain Lemuel Taylor, executed to the United
States their joint and several bonds for,the payment of the duties.
Upoli these bonds, the United States afterwards instituted actions
against each of the obligors, and recovered judgments in the Circuit
Court for the district of Maryland. These judgments have been
twice revived by scire facias; and are now in full force and unreversed.
S. Smith and Buchanan afterwards became insolvent, as also did
Lemuel Taylor. A large sum of money was, awarded under the
treaty with France to Lemuel Taylor, which was claimed by Mr.
Colt, his assignee: but the. United States withheld a part, thereof,
being the amount of the bonds given for the duties on the importations by the brig Unicorn and ship Brazilian, for which Lemuel
Taylor was surety. A large sum of money was also awarded to
Smith and Buchanan, under the treaty with France, which was
paid to Messrs. Meredith and Ellicott, their assignees. The sum
so received by the assignees was sufficient to pay the amount
claimed by the United States for the duties on the portions of cargoes
of the Unicorn and Brazilian, which had been imported by S. Smith
and Buchanan, but not enough to pay their partnership debts. The
United States had not adverted to the alleged liability of S. Smith
and Buchanan; for the duties unpaid on their importations, when
the awards under the French treaty were paid to their assignees.
The case was tried before the Circuit Court of Maryland, and a
verdict rendered in favour 'of the United States. The defendants
prosecuted this writ of error.
In the progress of the trial, the defendants, now plaintiffs in error,
offered* e'Videnhe to prove, that at the time of Lemuel Taylor's application for the benefit of the insolvent laws of Maryland, he was
indebted, and still remains indebted to the estate of S. Smith and
Buchanan, in a sum more than sufficient to. pay the whole amount
due upon the several bonds for duties before-mentioned; but the
admissibility of this evidence was objected to by the counsel for the
United States, and the Court sustained the objection.
The case was argued by Mr. Johnson and Mr. Meredith for the
plaintiffs in error; and by Mr. Nelson for the United States.
For the plaintiffs in error it was contended:That the evidence ought to have been admitted.
And upon the main questions in the case it was fuxther cort.

%ended-

SUPREME COURT.
,Meredith et al. vs. The United Statee.)

I. That the debt to the United States for the duties on me two
joint importations by the Unicorn and Brazilian, arose exclusively
upon the bonds given therefor; and that the United States had never
any other cause of action for said duties.
II. That if S. Smith and Buchanan were liable to the United States.
for said duties, before the execution and delivery of the bonds, then
the same, having been given and accepted, operated in law asan
extinguishment of such previous liability.
III. That the United States. have been fully paid and satisfied the
amount due for, duties on the said joint impqrtations out of' the
moneys received on account of the awards in favour of the trustees
of Lemuel Taylor; under the French treaty.
Mr. Meredith and Mr. Johnson for the plaintifs in error, contended that the set-off of the debts due by Lemuel Taylor to S. Smith
and Buchanan should have been allowed. The real parties in the
cause were the assignees of S. Smith and Buchanan, and the assignee of Lemuel ,Taylor. The United States had no interest in the
controversy. The suit was brought ii the name of the Unit ed State ,
and its"effect, if successful, would be to relieve from the lien of the
United States the funds retained by them from the French indemnity, and to enable the assignees of Lemuel Taylor to receive the
amount. from the treasury of the United States. The case therefore,
stood, in fact, as a controversy between the estates of the insolverits
represented by assignees. The United States' have expressly dis-claimed, by the law officer, all interest in the cause. Under such
circumstancesi the law of set-off. fully applies. Cited, 1 Term Rep.
62L 1 Washington C. C. R. 427. 3-East'sRep. 257. 10 Wendll's
Rep. 504.
The'bonds operated as an extinguishment of the debt for the dities which were due by the importers, and which were a lien on the
goods, until the bonds were given. On the executidn of the bonds,
received by the collector as the substitute for the rewhich were of
sponsibility
the importers, and the lien on the goods, the claim
of. the United States was upon the bonds only.
The only case which interferes with this position, is that of the
United States vs. Lyman, 1 Mason's C. C. R. 582. This is the only
case in which an action for debt has been brought for duties claimed
by ,the United, States. It stands alone. among the decisions of the
Courts :of the United States ; for although Mr. Justice Washington,
in 2 Washington's Circuit Court Reports, 508, affirms the law as
stated in the case ok the United States vs. Lyman, yet it was not
the question before-him.
In the case of The United States vs. The Assignees of hnskeep and
Bradford, 3 Wash. C. C. Rep. 508, it was decided by Mr. Justice
Washington, that the assignees of Bradford and Inskeep, the assignors having become insolvent, were not liable out of the estate
assigned for duties on merchandise imported by Bradford and Inskeep, fok which Bradford had given a bond to the United States..
The bond was an extinguishmxent Qf the original debt. Cited alsq,

JANUARY TERM, I839.

489

tMeredith et al. vs. The United States.]

9 Bingham, 341.

23 Serg. and Lowber's English Corn, Law Rep.

300. 10 Ibid. 55. 1 Mass. 53.
There' is nothing in the act of Congress which looks
to any other
obligation for the duties but the bond. In that act, the bonds are
called bonds for the payment of the duties, and bonds for the duties.
Mr. Nelson, for the defendants-in error, insisted :
1. That S. Smith and Buchanan, by virtue of the importations'of
1818 and 1819, in the Unicorn and Brazilian, became personally
liable to pay to the .United States two-thirds of the duties accruing
upon the first, and five-ninths of the duties acctuing upon the last
importation.
2. That being so personally liable, they were debtors to the United
States to the extent of that liability, on the 9th of November, 1820.
3. That the deed of conveyance from S. Smith and Buchanan to
the plaintiffs in error, of the 9th of November, 1820, was such as to
entitle the United States to a priority in the distribution of the funds
received u nder, said deed, &c.
4. That having shown the sum of sixty thousand dollars in the
hands of the plaintiffs in error, received under the said conveyance,
the Circuit Court did not err in givingthe instructions- asked forby
the defendants in error,-at the trial below.
In support of the first proposition, Mr. Nelson referred to the acts
of Congress of the 27th of April, 1816, section 7; and of the 3dMarch, 1799, sections 30. 36. 49. 53. 56. 62.
To show that the duties accrued upon the importation, he referred
to Attorney General vs. Strangforth, Bunbury, 97. Hargrave's Law
Tracts, 212, 213. The Schooner Boston, 1 Gallison's Reports, 240.
The Mary, ibid. 206. United States vs.,Arnold, ibid. 348. (S.'C.)
9 Cranch, 104. United States vs. Prince, 2 Gallison, 204. United
States vs. Vowell, 5 Cranch, 368. United States vs. Lyman, 1 Mason's Reports, 499.
And that the obligation for the payment of the duties thus accruirig, attached to the importers personally and immediately, he maintained by a reference to Salter vs. Malapere, 1 Rolle's Reps. 382.
Comyn's Digest, title Debt, (A. 9.) 2 Anstruther's Reports, 558.
Parker's Reports, 279. United States vs. Lymari, 1 Mason, 499.
United States vs. Aborn and others, 3 Mason, 130.
The third arid fourth propositions, Mr. Nelson stated, were clear
upon the termg of the conveyance, which was for all the property
of the grantors. 1 Kent's Commentaries, 229-233. Gordon's Digest, 62, and notes.
Having thus shown a once subsisting claimagainst S. Smith and
Buchanan, whose assignees the plaintiffs in error were, Mr. Nelson
proceeded to inquire whether there was any thing in the case made
by the evidence offered by the plaintiffs in error at the trial below,
to impair or discharge that claim' and he argueal that there W'as hot.
' 1. Because the bonds exhibited in the record operated no extinuishxent of the demand for duties.

490

SUPREME COURT.
[Meredith et'al.
vs. The Unit3d States.]

2. Because the judgments and the proceedings thereon, offered in
evidence by th4deferadants below, could produce no such effect:
and,
3. Because the record showed no payment or. satisfaction of the
claim in law or in fact.
The bonds, Mr. Nelson argued, did not extinguish the claim for
duties Arising upon the importations; since, if even taken in pursuance of the acts of Congress, they were mere securities, and collateral to the original liability.
That the provisions of the acts of Congress must be regarded as
incorporated in the bonds, and as evidencing the'terms upon which
they were taken at the customhouse.
That those provisions showed that it never was the design of their
enactment, that the bonds should be taken in satisfaction ; but, on
the contrary, were looked to as mere securities. And in support of
-this view, Mr. Nelson referred and copmented upon the acts of
Congress, of the 4th of July, 1789, of 1799, ch. 128, see. 36. 49. 62.

.1 Mason's Rep. 482. 3 Mason, 130. Knox vs. Divers, 5 Mason,
395. Tom vs. Goderich, 2 Johnson's Reports, 213. Sherby vs.
Champlin,'4 Johns. Reps. 465. United States vs. Astley and others,
3 Washington's C. C. Reps. 508.
But he insisted that the bonds in question were not statutory instruments: that they were voluntary and therefore collateral; and
consequently operated no extinguishment.
That no one but the owner or owners, importe& or importers, consignee or consignees, were authorised to demand a credit for duties,
and to give bonds. Act of 1799 ch. 127, see. 62. Harris vs. Dennie,

3 Peters' Supreme Court Reports, 304.
That in this case, the importers were Hollins and M'Blair, and
S. Smith and Buchanan. That the bonds were not executed by
them, but by John S. Hollins, as principal, and James A. Buchanan
and Lemuel Taylor as sureties. That they Were, therefore, the
bonds of others than the importers, owners, and donsignees; of a
third person, or mere stranger, which could not operate an extinguishment of the simple contract debt, they being voluntaxy.
That John S. Hollins was one of the firm of Hollins and M'Blair,
Mr. Nelson argued could make no.difference, since the acts of Congress provide for no such case; and although it might be true, as
between individuals, that the bond or other specialty of one partner
would extinguish a simple contract debt due from the partnership,
the law presuming, in the absenceof proof to the contrary, that the
creditor in accepting such bond or specialty, receives it in payment;
yet under the acts of Congress, bonds of like character could have no
such effect: precisely because no such presumption could exist -in
relation to an officer purely ministerial, the collector having no authority to assent to any bond other than such as conform to the
requirements of the statute.
That such an interpretation of the act of Congress was repugnant

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

491

[Meredith et a]. v8. The United States.)

to the obvious policy of its framers, since it would be calculated to
defeat the priority claim of the government aginst partnership
effects, which it was their manifest design effectually to protect.
But Mr. Nelson denied that these were bonds given by a partner
for a partnership debt; maintaining that the evidence and verdict
stated in the record showed that S. Smith and Buchanan were separate importers for their proportions of the cargoes upon which the
duties accrued; and that the bonds being given by John S. Hollins,,
who was not a member of their firm, were clearly the bonds of a
stranger, which could not extinguish the simple contract liability.
That the judgments and the proceedings thereon did not extinguish the claim of duties, he niaintained, since the bonds being
collateral, and, the obligation created by them coexisting with the
original liability, it was competent to the United States to pursue
all proper remedies upon the securities, without dischiarging the
original responsibility of the importers; and he referred in support
of this position to Drake vs. Mitchell, 3 East's Rep. 251.
To show that there had been no payment in law, he referred to
the provisions of the treaty with the King of the French, of the 4th
of July, 1831, and to the act of Congress of the 13th of July, 1.832 ;
to The United States vs. Aborn and others, 3 Mason's Reports, 130 ;
and Martin vs. Mechanics Bank of Baltimore, 6 Harr. and Johns.
235; 2 Espinasse's Cases, 668.
That there had been no payment in fact, he showed, by a reference to the correspondence contained in the record.
Upon the first exceptiQn Mr. Nelson contended there was no
error, because Lemuel Taylor was no party to the suit; the United
States were the plaintiffs; not only nominally but substantially and
really; and that their right of recovery could be in nowise affected
by the state of the accounts between S. Smith and Buchanan/ and
Lemuel Taylor.
Mr. Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is a writ of error to the Circuit (ourt for the district of Maryland. The original action was assunfisit brought by the United
States against the plaintiffs in error, who were the original defendants, to recover from them, as assignees under a general assignment
of the property of the firm of Smith and Buchanan, the amount of
certain duties alleged to be due from the said firm upon certain importations in the brig Unicorn and the ship Brazilian, out of the
funds in the hands of the assignees, upon the ground of an asserted
right of priority of the United States to payment out of the same
funds.
At tjhe trial, upon the general issue, the material facts-appeared as
follozrs. In the years 1818 and 1819, Smith and Buchanan, and
Hollins and MBIAIir, two separate commercial firms .in Baltimore,
imported, orthei own account as owners, a quantity of goods from
calcutta irfthe brig Unicorn and ship Brazilian-above mentioned,

492

SUPREME COURT.
[Meredith et 'al. w, The United State&]

on which, the present duties were claimed. Smith and Buchanan
were the importers and owners of two-thirds of the cargo of the ship,
and five-ninths of that of the brig; and that proportion went to their
possession and use, The remainder of both cargoes belobged to
Iollins and M'Blair. The entries of both cargoes were made at
the customhouse at Baltimore by John S. Hollins, one -of the firm.
of Hollins and M'Blair, as imported in the vessels, respectively, by
Hollins and M'Blair, and Smith and Buchanan; and Hollins gave
bonds for the duties in the common form in his. own name; and
James A. Buchanan, of the firm of Smith and Birehanan, and
Lemuel Taylor, who is admitted to be a mere, surety, also executed
the same bonds. The condition of the bonds was for the payment
of the duties on the goods ",entered by the above bounden John S.
Hollirls, for Smith and Buchanan, and Hollins and M'Blair, as imported" in the ship and brig respectively. Upon these bonds the
UnitedStates afterwards instituted actions against each of the obligors, and recovered judgments in the Circuit Court for the District
of Maryland. These judgments have, been revived,'and are now
in full force and unreversed. Smith and Buchanan became insolvent; and after the rendition of the judgments, Taylor ,also became
insolvent under the insolvent laws of Maryland. One Rosewell L.
Colt became the trustee of Taylor; and afterwards, under the treaty
of indemnity with France, a large sum of money was awarded to
him by the commissioners; and a large sum of money was also
awarded to Smith and Buchanan, which has been received by the
original defendants as their assignees,. and is -more than sufficient to
pay the sums now claimed by the United States, but not enough to
par the partnership debts of the firm of Smith and Buchanan. Taylor applied' to the treasury department for the usual certificates
granted to claimants by the awards under'the treaty; but they were
refused by the department upon the ground of Taylor's indebtment
to the United States upon the aforesaid bonds and judgments. Since
that period an arrangement has been made between the government
and Colt, the trustee, by which a suffioient sim of the moneys so
due by Taylor is reserved in the treasury to secure the amount
of the judgments on the bonds ,gainst - Taylor,, and the residue has been paid over to the trustee. And the present action has
been brought by the United States. for the benefit of Taylor's trustee,
in order to give to the latter the full, rights and remedies of the
United States to a priority of payment out of the moneys, of Smith
V
and Buchanan, in the hands of the defendants as their assignees.
To repel the supposed equity in Taylor, as a surety, the defendants
offered to prove that at the period of the application of Taylor for
the benefit of the insolvent laws, he was largely indebted -to Smith
4nd Buchanan, and in a sum more than sufficient to cover the
whole amount due upon the duty bonds aforesaid, and still remained
so indebted. The Court rejected the evidence, and to this rejection
the defendants excepted, And this' constitutes the first bill of ex-

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

493

[Meredith et al. vs. The United States.]

ceptions. Upon this we have no more to say than that we think
the ruling of the Court was clearly right Whatever might be the
merits of'such an equitable claim in any suit brought by. Taylor or
his assignee against Smith and Buchanan, or their assignees; it
could have no proper place in a suit brought by the United States
to recover demands justly due to them for duties. It was, as to
them, res inter alios acta; and the United 5tates were not called
upon to engage in or to unravel any of the accounts and set-offs existing between those parties, in a-suit at law like the present.
Afterwards the United States asked an instruction to. the jury,
which was given to the jury, to which the defendants excepted.
The defendants then prayed certain instructions to the jury, which
the Court refused to give; to which refusal the defendants also excepted. These exceptions are spread at large upon the record, and
constitute the second bill of exceptions. It is unnecessary to recite
them at large, as they are all resolvable into the leading points
which have been so fully argued at the bar; and we shall therefore
proceed at once Ito the consideration of these points.
The first question is, whether Smith and Buchanan-were ever
personally indebted for these duties; or, in other words, whether
the importers of goods do, in virtue of the importation thereof, become personally indebted to the United States for the duties due
thereon; or the remedy of the United States is exclusively confined
to the lien on the goods, and the security bf the bond given for the
duties. It appears to us clear upon -principle, as well as upon the
obvious import of the provisions of the various acts of Congress on
this subject, that, the duties due upon all goods imported constitute
a-personal debt due to the United States from the importer, (and the
consignee f, this purpose is treated as the owner and importer,) independehtly of any lien on the goods, and any bond given for the
duties. The language of the duty act of the 27th of April, 1816,
ch. 107, under which the pre.sent importations were made, declares
that "there shall be levied, collected, and paid," the severa duties
prescribed by the act on goods imported into the United States.
And this is a common formulary in other acts laying duties. Now,
in the exposition of statutes laying duties, it has been a common
rule of -interpretation derived frbm the principles of the common
law, that where the duty is charged, on the goods, the meaning is
that it is a personal charge on the owner by reason of the goods.
-,
2 Anst. R. 558.
$o it was held in Attorney-general vs.
where a duty was laid on wash in a still; and it was said by the
Court that where duties are charged on any articles in a revenue
act, the word "charged" means that the owner shall be debited
with the sum; and that this rule prevailed even when the article
was actually lost or destroyed before -it became available to the
owner. Nor is there any thing new in this doctrine ; for it has lor a
been held that in all such cases an action of debt lies in favour of
the government against the importer, for -the duties, whenever by
VoL. XIIlI-2 T

50

494

SUPREME COURT.
[Meredith et al. vs. The United States,]

accident, mistake, or fraud, no duties, or short duties have been
paid.
The question has also been asked, at what time the right of the
government to the duties accrues in the fiscal sense of the terms.
The answer is, at the time when the goods have arrived at the
proper port of entry. This is 'the established rule adopted by the
government in all cases where there has been a new-act passed, increasing or diminishing the duties to be paid on goods imported
after a specified period. The same doctrine was affirmed by this
Court in the cases of The United States vs.. Vowell, 5 Cranch, 368;
and of Arnold vs. The United States, 9 Cranch, 104. But although
the duties thus accrue to the government as a personal debt of the
importer, upon the arrival o the goods in the proper port of entry;
yet it is but a debitum in presenti solvendum in futuro, according
to the requisitions of the revenue collection act of the 2d of March,
1799, ch. 128 ; and, therefore, if a deposit of the goods is made by
the importer, or a bond is given by him for the duties, pursuant to
the provisions of -that act, the importer is entitled to the-full credit
allowed by that act. But it is a mistake to suppose that if a deposit
is made of the goods, either with or wit~iout a bond given for the
duties, the rights of the government for the duties are limited to the
lien upon. the goods; and cannot, if they are lost or destroyed, be
made a personal charge against the importer. On the contrary, the
revenue collection act of 1799, ch. 128, s. 621 expressly declares
that the goods deposited shall be kept by the collector with due and
reasonable care, at the expense and isk of the party on.whose account they have been deposited. Our opinion, therefore, on this
point is, that the duties due upon goods imported, constitute a personal debt, and charge upon the importer, as well as a lien on the
goods themselves.
In the next place, was the debt due for the duties on the goods
imported, in the present case extinguished by giving the bond by
Hollins, in the manner before stated? We have no doubt that these
bonds, being voluntary bonds, are valid; and'that Hollins and his
sureties are estopped to deny their validity. But the question is
not whether they are valid; but whether they are the proper statute
,bonds contemplated by the revenue act of 1799, ch. 128, It is to
be observed that the present. case is not'onewheie the bonds were
given by the sole importer of the goods; so that the sole question
would then be, whether the bond'of the same party, who was personally liable for the duties, supposing the bond to cover all the
duties due and payable on the goods, was an extinguishment of the'
-simple contract debt for those duties. But the present is a case
%,hereone of several partners, and one of several joint importers,
has given his separate bonds for the duties due by law by all. the
importers, either as partners or as part owners; and therefore,
where the true question is whether such bonas under such circumstances amount to an extinguishment of the debt due by-all the

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

495

[Meredith et al. ve. The United Statet]

other importers, as partners or as part owners. It is certainly encum.
bent upon those who assert the affirmative, to show by some clear
and determinate language of the revenue collection act of 17991
ch. 128, that the collector was thus authorized to take the separate
bonds of one of the importers for the debt of all; and that it was
the legislative intention that such separate bonds; when taken,
should operate as an extinguishment of the liability of all the other
importers. Now, it is plain, that where the goods are received on
deposit, the whole goods, and not merely the share of the partner
giving the bonds, are liable for the duties..
Upon a careful review of the other provisions of the act, we are
equally well satisfied that in every case within the act, the bond for
the duties is required to be given by all the persons who are the importers, whether they be partners or part owners ; and that the collector is not by law authorised to take the separate bond of one of the
importers in extinguishment of the joint liability of all. The language
of the 62d section of the act is, "that all duties on goods, wares, or
merchandise imported shall be paid, or secured to be paid, before a
permit shall be granted for landing the same ; and whem the amount
of such duty on goods imported in any ship or vessel, on account of
one person only, or of peveral persons jointly interested, shall not
exceedfifty dollars, the same shal be immediately paid; and if it
exceed that sum, shall, at the option of the importer or importers, be
paid; or secured to be paid, by bond'." Now, construing this language
distributively, as in our judgment it ought to be construed, to mean
by the importer when there is one only, and by all the importers
When there is more than one, there is not the slightest difficulty in
giving full effect to every word of the act. Construe it the other
way, and the word "importers" has no appropriate use, which Is
not included in the other language. The very form of the bond
given in th ; same section, also, shows that it was the intent of the
act that all the importers should be parties to the bond; for it prescribes,, Know all men by these presents that we (here insert the
name of the importer or consignee ; or if by an agent the name of
such agent, and of the Importers or consignees, -and the sureties,.
their place of abode, and occupation,) &c." It is not unimportant,
also, to consider what would be the consequence of a different construction 'of the act; for if it would lead to great insecurity in the
collection' of the public revenue, and enable importers to substitute
almost at their own discretion the liability of one of the firm, or one
part owner for the liabilities of all, it would open the way not only
to many intentional evasions and frauds upon the just right of the
government, but also, in cases of the death or insolvency of the acting partner, or part owner, leave the government without redress
against those who had almost exclusively enjoyed all the benefits
of the impiortation. On the other hand, the construction which we
put upon the act imposes the burden upon those who have enjoyed
the benefits; and creates a common interest in a vigilant and prompt

496

SUPREME COURT.
[Meredith et al. w. 'rhe rnited States.]

discharge of that burden. Nor--is there. any inconvenience in it; for
if all the importers are not present, a letter of attorney may readily
be executed, which will meet every exigency of commercial business. And we cannot but think that the 25th section of the act of
1823, ch. 149, which provides that any bofid to the United States
entered into for the payment of duties by a merchant belonging to
a firm, in the name of such firm, shall equally bind the partner or
partners in trade of the person or persons by whom such bond shall
have been executed, was intended to meet: cases of this sort; and
that it demonstrates the understanding of Congress, that by the existing law then in force, all the partners were required to join in
the bond for the duties..
The remaining point is, whether under the circumstances of the
present case, the government has actually received payment of the
duties in controversy. We think it has not. By the payment of
the moneys due under the French treaty, and the awards of the
commissioners, there was originally im the hands of the government
the sum of sixty thousand dollars awarded to Smith and Buchanan,
which was properly and primarily applicable tq the- discharge of
these very duties. But by mere mistake, arising from the circumstance that Hollins alone appeared the 15rincipal in thie bonds, and
Smith and Buchanan being unknown to have been th6 6riginal importers, that sum was paid over by the government to the present
defendants, as assignees. Had the facts been known, the present
controversy would have stopped at the threshold, by recouping or
retaining the amount from the awards. The government has now
in its possession the funds, under the awards due to Taylor, the
surety on these bonds; and it certainly had the power, if it pleased,
to appropriate the same in payment of the debt. The question is,
whether it has so done. Looking to the'whole transactions, we are
satisfied that it has not. It retains the funds of Taylor in its hands
as security for payment, if the present suit should not be successful;
and it has allowed the suit to be brought in the name of the United
States, for the benefit of Taylor1.
It has thus carried out the intent
and spirit of the act of 1799, ch. 128, see. 65, which declares that
the surety paying a bond for duties shall have and enjoy the like
.advantage, priority, or preference for the receipt of the said moneys
out of the effects of the insolvent, as are reserved and secured
to the United States. We think, then, that no payment has been
made; but that Taylor's funds have been held as a mere special
deposit for the indemnity of the government, and to abide, the event
of the suit; and that to give a different construction to the acts of
'the officers of the government would defeat their true objects, as"
well, as the purposes of substantial justice.
Upon the whole, we are of opinion that the judgment of the
Circuit Court ought to be affirmed.
The case of Nathaniel Williams, and another, vs. The United
States, which was submitted to the Court upon the argument in

JANUARY TERM, 1839

497

[Meredith et al. vs. The United States.]

the present case, is far less stringent in its circumstances in favour
of the defendants; and involves far less difficulty. The judgment
in that case is also affirmed.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States foi the district of Maryland, and was argued by comsel. On consideration whereof, it is
ordered and adjudged by this Court, that the judgment of the said
Circuit Court in this cause be, and the same is hiereby, affirmed.

