JANUARY TARM 1839.

65

JOSEPH J. ANDREWS, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, vs. LEWIS W. POND,
THOMAS M. CONVERSE, AND FRANCIS L. WADSWORTH, DEFENDANTS IN ERROR.
A bill of exchange, ip payment of a debt due on a protested bill, was taken, in New York,
from one of the par .es to the protested bill. The exchange bet4een Mobile, on which the bill
was drawn, was stated to be ten per centum, and was added to the bill, and the damages on
the protested bill, with interest, at the rate of interest in New York, from the time the first
bill was protested, were added to the bill. It w as sent to Mobile, and was placed to the
credit of the drawees by the endorsee, who received it before it came to maturity. The
bill was afterwards protested for non-payment. An action was brought in Alabama
against the endorsers of the bill, one of whom was in New York when the bill was
drawn, and who, being liable to suit on the protested bill, gave the second bill to prevent
suit being brought against him. The defendants alleged usury in the second bill; the
rate of exchange allowed on the bill, being ten per centum, was given, and it being alleged
that the highest rate of exchange on Mobile did not exceed five per centum.
Although the transaction, as exhibited, appears, on the face of the account for which the
bill was drawn, to be free from the taint of usury, yet if the ten per centum charged as exchange, or any part of it, was intended as a cover for usurious interest, the form in which
it was dQne, and the name under which it was taken, will not protect the bill from the
consequences of usury; and if the fact be established, it must be dealt with in the
same manner as if the usury had been expressly -mentioned in the bill itself. But
whether the charge of ten per centum for exchange between New York and Mobile was
intended as a cover for usury or not, is a question exclusively for the jury. It is a ques.
tion of intention.
In order to enable the jury to decide whether the usury was concealed under the name of
exchange, evidence on both sides ought to have been admitted, whicli tended to show
the usual rate of exchange between New York and Mobile, when the bill was negotiated.
There is no rule of law fixing the rate which may be charged for exchange. It does not
depend on the cost of transporting -specie from one place to another; although the price
of exchange is no doubt influenced by it.
The general principle in relation, to contracts made at one place to be executed at another,
is well settled. They are to be governed by the laws of the place of performance; and
if the interest' allowed by the laws 5ofthe place of performance be greater than that permitted at the place of the contract, the parties may stipulate for the higher interest, without incurring the penalties of usury.
When a contract has been mada without reference to the laws of the state where it was
rmade, or to the laws of the place of performance, and a rate of interest was reserved forbidden by the laws of the place where the contract was made, which was concealed under
the name of exchange, in order to evade the law against usury, the question is not
whlch law is to govern in executing the contract; unquestionably it must be the law of
the state where the agreement was entered into, and the instrument taken to secure its
performance. A contract of this kind cannot stand on the same principles with a bona
fide agreement made in one place to be executed in another. In the last mentioned cases
the agreements were permitted by the lex loci contractus, and will even be enforced
there, if the party is found within its jurisdiction. But the same rule cannot be applied
to contracts forbidden by its laws, and designed to evade them. In such cases the legal
consequences of such an agreement must be decided by the law of the place where the
contract was made. If void there,. it is void evvrywhere.
A person who takes a bill, which on the face of it was dishonoured, cannot be allowed to
claim the privileges which belong to a bona fide holder without notice. If he cbooseseto
receive it under such circumstances, he takes it with all the infirmities belonging to it;
and is in no better condition than the person from whom he received it. There can be
no distinction in principle between a bill transferred after it is dishonoured for non-.
acceptance, and one transferred after it has been dishonoured for non-payment.

F 2

9

66

SUPREME COURT.

[Andrews:vs. Pond et al.]
If, in consideration of further f6rbearance, a creditor receives a tew'security from his
debtor for an existing debt, he cannot enlarge the amount due by exacting any thing,
either by way of interest or exchange, for the additional risk, which be may supppse ho
runs by this extension of credit; nor on the opinion he may entertain as to the punctuality of payment, or the ultimate safety of his debt.

IN error to the Circuit Court of the United States for the southern
district of Alabama.
The plaintiff in error instituted a suit an.a bill of exchange, dated
at New York on the 11th of March, 1837, drawn. by D. Carpenter
on Sayre, Converse and Company, Mobile, Alabama, for $7281/78
infavour of the defendants, Pond, Converse, and Company; payable
and negotiable at the Bank of Mobile, sixty days after date.
The plaintiff in error was a citizen of New York, ald the drawers
and endorsers of the bill were citizens of Alexandria, Alabama.
The evidence in the Circuit Court proved that Lewis W. Pond,
one of the defendants, was in New York in March, 1837, and being
indebted to the plaintiff in the sum of six thousand dollars, on a bill
which had been returned protested from Mobile, and on which suit
was about to be brought by th6 plaintiff, agreed to .pay ton per
cent., the legal damages on the bill, and ten per cent. in addition,
with the legal interest of New York on the bill for the time of its
return, being eighteen days, and the charges of protest and postage, by a bill of exchange on Mobile. The bill was drawn in
New York, being for the sum of $7287 78, and was endorsed by
Mr. Pond, in the name of the firm, the defendants in error. The bill
was endorsed by the plaintiff in error, and was remitted by the plaintiff to S.Andrews, at Mobile, and was by him set to the credit of
H. A. Andrews and Company, of New Yorjc. It was received by
S. Andrews, with the endorsement of the defendants, before its
maturity; and it was a cash credit in the account current between H.
M. -Andrews and Company, and S. Andrews. The defendant offered
evidence under the issue, the statute of New York against usury, and
certain depositions, to prove-that the bill of -exchange was usurious.
One of the witnesses stated that the consideration for this bill was
made up by the following account: E. Handrick's draft on Daniel
Carpenter, Montgomery, Alabama, protested, dated at New York,
$6000
December 20th, 1836, at sixty days for
Damages at 10 per cent.,

600

-

Interest 18 days at 7 per cent.,
Protest and postage,

-

-

21
4 25
-

Exchange 10 per cent., being difference of
exchange between Mobile and New York
on the 11th March, 1837,

625 25

662 53
$7287 78

John Delafield, President of the Phcenix Bank, examined on the
part of the defendant, stated that the exchange between New York
and Mobile on the 11 th of March, 1837, was from three to five per

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

67

[Adrews vs. Pond et al.]

,ent. This k owledge of exchange was acquired from having dealt
n exchange during the period, for the Ph(enix Bank.
Robert White, cashier of the Manhattan Company, stated that, by
treference to the books of the company, the exchange between
New York and Mobile was, during the month of March, 1837, from
five to seven per cent.: and Morris Robinson, agent for the Bank of
the United States in the city of New York, said, that, during the
month of March, 1837, he found by a reference to the books, the
dealers with the bank were charged from three to five per cent.;
three for short, and five for long paper.
The plaintiff excepted to the reading of the statute and laws of
New York against usury: and in order to disprove the allegation
of usury in the transaction, as the contract was-not made subject
to the statute laws of New York, and the contract was subject only
to the laws of Alabama as to its obligatory form and solidity; and
was or was not usurious according to these laws. The plaintiff
then offered to prove by Joseph Wood, that the banks purchased
bills at a far less exchange than others; that they never bought any
other than undoubted paper; that from the facility of collecting, remitting, &c. they had many advantages over the citizens at large;
and that the exchange of the banks was therefore much lower than

that of the community at large: that there was no fixed rate of exchange between Mobile and New York; that it varied from one to.
twenty per cent., according to the solvency, punctuality, risk, &c.
of the parties; that exchange was ever fluctuating, and was high or
low as the risk was great or small. The Court refused to admit this
testimony, and the plaintiff excepted.
The plaintiffs asked the Court to instruct the jury, that if they
were satisfied that the excess over legal interest retained in this bill
was taken and contracted for, innocently, by the parties, without intending to violate the laws against usury; they might find for the
plaintiff. The Court refused to give this instruction, and the plaintiff excepted.
The plaintiff moved the Court to instruct the jury that the contract expressed in this bill of exchange, if to be.executed in Alabama,
was subject, alone, to the laws of Alabama against usury; and that
the usury laws of New York had no force, or any thing to do -vith this
investigation : this was refused by the Court, and plaintiff excepted..
The plaintiff next requested the court to charge the jury, that
if they believed S. Andrews received the bill before maturity, for
a valuable consideration, without any notice Of usury, and that the
plaintiff received it from S. Andrews, without notice of usury, and
before maturity, that the plaintiff might recover; notwithstanding
plaintiff offered no proof of the cons.ideration he gave for it. The
plaintiff excepted to this refusal of the Court.
The plaintiff next moved the Court to charge that the variance
between the bill declared on, and the-one set up as the same bill by
defendant's deposition, was fatal in a plea of usury; to which the
Coalrt reftised, and the plaintiff excepted.

SUPREME COURT.
[Andrews vs. Pond et al.]

It appeared that before the b ' was delivered by S. Andrews
to plaintiff, it-had been, while in--the hands of S. Andrews, protested for non-acceptance, which appeared on the face of the bill.
There was no evidence of any settled account between H. M. Andrews & Co., and S. Andrews, or which was creditor or debtor
upon the statement of accounts. It was also proved that the expense of transporting specie from New York to Mobile, including
insurance and interest, would not exceed one and one half per
centun on the sum transported.
Upon the whole case, and the several points stated, the Court
charged the jury; that if they believed from the evidence, that by
the usages of trade between New York and Mobile, there was an
established rate of exchange between those places, the drawers and
drawees of the bill of exchange here sued on, had a right to contract for such rates of exchange ; and that even a higher rate to a
small amount, if under the circumstances it did not appear to have
been intended to evade the statute against usury might be allowed
by them ; but if they believed that no such usage existed, the parties had no right to contract for more than the actual expense of
transportation of specie from one place to the other, including interest, insurance, and such reasonable variations therefrom, as above
stated: and further, if they believed from the evidence that the
drawers of the bill of exchange contracted with the drawers in the
state of New York, at the time the bill was drawn, for a greater
rate of interest than seven per centum per aiinum, for the forbearance of the payment of the sum of money specified in the bill; although it may have been taken in the name of exchange; the contract is usurious: and unless they believe from the evidence, that the
plaintiff took the bill in the regular course of business, and upon a
fair abid valuable consideration bona fide paid by him, and without
notice of the usury, they ought to 'find for the defendant; otherwise
for the plaintiff: to which opinion, and charge of the Court, the
plaintiff, by his counsel, excepted. The jury found a verdict for
the defendants; and the plaintiff prosecuted this writ of error.
The case was argued by Webster, and Mr. D. F. Webster, for
the plaintiff in error; and by Mr. Ogden for the defendants.
For the plaintiff it was insisted, by Mr. D. F. Webster:
1. That the contract in all that relates to interest, was to be governed by the law of Alabama.
2. That in the Court, sitting in Alabama, the defence of usury could
not be set up under the general issue.
3. That certain evidence offered by the plaintiff on the question
of usury, was improperly rejected.
4. That the rulings and direction of the Court on the points of
law, as stated in the bill of exceptions, were erroneous.
Th&provisions of the laws of New York, 1 Revised Stat. 772, on
the subject of usury, declare the contqat, oQn which usury shall be

JANUARY TERM, 1.839

69

[Andrews vs. Pond et al.]

taken or received, absolutely void; with a saving from the influence
of the statute as to bills of exchange, or promissory notes payable to
order or to bearer in the hands of an indorsee ; who shall have received the same in good faith and for a valuable consideration, and
who had not at the time of discounting the bill actual notice that
the bill had been originally given upon a usurious consideration, &c.
By the laws of Alabama, the interest alone is forfeited.
It is contended that the contract is to be governed by the laws of
the place where it was to be executed' The contract, on the face
of this bill of exchange expresses that it was to be executed elsewhere than where it was made. The parties entered into it with a
view to its performance at another place. It is a foreign bill, (2 Peters,
586,) and of course is dated in one place, and in one state, and made
payable in another state.
The lex loci is to govern, unless the parties have had in view, by
the contract, another place of performance; that is to say, if the
parties have in view, by the terms of the contract, the city of Mobile,
for its performance, it is the law of the place of performance which
is to govern and construe the terms of the agreement. 2 Burr,
1077. 8 John. 190. 4 Peters, 111. 7 Peters, 586. Alabama was
not only the place where the contract was to be executed, but this
action was instituted in Alabama.
2. As to the second point. Under the laws of Alabama, where on
an usurious contract the interest only is forfeited, it was not allowable
under a plea of non assumpsit, to put in evidence of usury ; because
although by the usury, the interest is lost, yet the amount of the bill,
deducting the interest, may be recovered. The lex loci is to be regarded, and the trial is to be conducted according to it; and what
might under the plea be offered in evidence in New York, could not
be admitted in Alabama. The plea was not sustained by the evidenct, and did not suit the case.
Supposing the plaintiff to have been in that situation as to the
bill, as to be liable to lose the interest on it, as upon a usurious contract' yet' it was not under such a plea as this that evidence to
charge him with this liability could have been admitted. Supposing
that by the law of New York it was usury, yet it was to be punished by the laws Qf Alabama only.
But if, contrary to these views of the law, the statutes of New
York on he subjeet of this contract are to be applied to it, yet, between the parties to this suit the law has no force. The statute of
New York declares that its provisions shall have no application where
there has been a bona fide holder of the bill, or an endorser thereof,
without actual notice that the bill has been originally gjven for a
usurious consideration. This is an action on a bill of exchange
brought by the endorsee, and no proof was given on the trial that
he was not an innocent holder, ignorant of the consideration given
for this negotiable instrument. It does not anywhere appear to the
contrary, but on the contrary the proof was clear and explicit that
tho bill had been regularly transferred to him before its maturity,

70

SUPREME COURT.
[Andrews vs. Pond et al.]

and had been placed as a credit in the accounts between him and
the house in New York. Nor did it appear that the plaintiff had
any knowledge of the asserted usury of tht, transaction. Supposing,
then, that th law of New York must regulate the contract; yet on
the proof submitted on the trial in the Circuit Court, the plaintiff
ought to have recovered the amount of the bill.
3. The plaintiff in error contends, that certain evidence was refused by the Court which ought to have been given.
To prove the contract to have been usurious, certain depositions
were read by the defendants; some going to show the original
nature of the bill, and the circumstances under which it was made;
and other witnesses were examined to show the rate of exchange
between New York and Mobile.
The witnesses examined were all connected with banks; andthey
proved differences in the rates of exchange from three to five per
cert., and even seven per cent. Those institutions had great facilities in doing business in exchange; and they took undtubted and
endorsed paper, at short dates. If there was any fixed rate of exchange between New York and Mobile, it would have been known
to these witnesses; and it would have been stated. A charge beyond a fixed rate might be asserted to be usurious. But no fixed
rate existed.
When the Circuit Court allowed the defendants to give evidence
as to the rates of exchange between New York and Mobile, it would
seem no more than proper that the privilege should be allowed
to the plaintiff. The facts which would have been exhibited by
such evidence were essential to the full exhibition of the plaintiff's
case. Charges for exchange vary with the credit and position of
the parties to the bills of exchange, and the length of time the bills
have to run; with many other circumstances; and among them the
balances of trade, influence the amount of such charges materially.
There was no unreasonable charge made upon this bill. It was
taken to pay a protested draft, and from a party who had been on
the dishonoured bill. The credit of such a bill must have been exceedingly doubtful; and the circumstances of the dishonofir of its
predecessor having been known, it would not have commanded,as
much as was allowed on it in the exchange market in New York,
where it was received.
The plaintiff contends that the ruling and direction of the Court
on the law were erroneous.
The plaintiff asked the Court to instruct the jury that if they
were satisfied the, excess over legal interest was taken by the parties,
without intending to violate the law against usury, they should find
for the plaintiff. The Court refused to give the instruction.
The question was one of intention. Did the parties mean to violate the law against usury? It was incumbent on the defendants to
prove that the original parties to the bill intended usury; and that
it was not considered by them a regular mercantile transaction.
On the bill itself no usury appears. The parties giving the bill

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

71

[Andrews v3. Pond et al.]

consented to allow a high rate of dxchange for the advantages
which they obtained in the exemption of one of the defendants,
then in New York, from a suit. which was about to be commenced
on the protested bill.
The plaintiff was altogether disconnected with the.circumstances
under which this bill was originally given. He received it as a remittance from New York; and before it came to maturity it was
placed to the credit of the house in New York as a cash credit.
When he presented it for payment, it was refused on the ground
of its having been made in fraud of the law of New York against
usury. Thus, negotiable paper, which had passed through different
hands, and Which was obtained in good faith; was discredited by
circumstances which could not have been known to the subsequent
holders of it. A purchase of a bill of exchange may be made at
any deduction from its amount; and the contract of purchase is legal.
The judge of the Circuit Court charged the jury that if there was
no established rate of exchange between New York and Mobile, the
parties had no right to contract for more than the actual expense of
transporting specie. But by the evidence given on the part of the
defendants, it was fully shown that there was no fixed rate of exchange; and yet the contract was to be made usurious, because more
was taken than the cost of transporting specie from Mobile to New
York. Such a position destroys, all operations of exchange, and
thus interrupts the great means of commercial intercourse and dealing. Rates of exchange are fixed or regulated by other rules than
those which would be derived from the value of specie at the place
on which the bill may be drawn, and the cost of its carriage to tl[
place from which the bill is sent. The experience of every commercial man, and the value of exchange in every commercial
country establish this position.
Mr. Ogden, for the defendant, contended .that the contract entered
into by the bill of exchange on which the suit was brought having
been rmade in New York, was to be governed by tire laws of New
York. An.pndorser of a bill of exchange is liable only by the law
of the place where the bill is made. 3 Mass. Rep. 77. 5 East, 130.
1 East, 60. 8 Martin's Rep. 34. The law of the contract is the law
of New York, where the debt was due; and where it was settled by
the bill of exchange on which this suit was brought.
It is said that the evidence of usury could not be given under the
plea of non assumpsit: but this is taking for granted that the law
of the case is that of Alabama, and not that of New York. Evidence
to show a usurious consideration is proper evidence inder the plea.
There is no evidence of bona fide ownership of this bill. in the
plaintiff. The bill was remitted for colle, tion; and the plaintiff was
the agent of the drawee. The entry of the bill as a cash credit, does
not affect this view of the case. It was no more than a mode of
keeping the account between the drawer, and the person to whom
the, bill had been transmitted. The bill was taken in payment of

72

SUPREME COTTRT.
[Andrews vs. Pond et al.]

an old debt, and that debt is yet due : and for it the creditor has a
perfect right to proceed at law.
It matters not what was the intention of the parties; and if they
had no view to a usurious dealing, still the law operates on the contract, and makes it void if there actually was usury. Where the
months of a year are caleulated to be thirty days, and interest for a
year charged on each month, it was held to be usury.
Mr. Webster for the plaintiff in error. This is an action by the
endorsee of a bill of exchange residing in Alabama, and the suit is
brought in that state. The bill was drawn in New York, to be'paid
in Alabama; and there is nothing in the record to show that the endorsee, the plaintiff, was in New York, or had any thing to do with
the bill, until it came into his hands in Alabama. The defendants
atre described as citizens of Alabama; and presumption is that it was
enOorsed in Alabama, and was an Alabama transaction.
The true place of the contract is the place of its performance; and
the law of Alabama operates upon this bill exclusively, as the contract made by it was to be performed there. Story's Conflict of
Laws, 251. A bill drawn in New York, to pay eight per cent. interest in Alabama, where the interest is eight per cent., would not
be void by the law of New York. Where there is no actual and
express agreement to pay usurious interest, it is entirely a question
of intention; and the case to be made out is, that there was a design, either open or covered, to take more than the statut4 allows as
interest.
There can be no rule of law which prohibits the purchase of a
bill of exchange at any rate of discount; or which makes such a purchase, if the discount is more than the legal interest, usury. The
rates of exchange are always various, and are sometimes uncertain.
To apply the law of usury to such contracts would be productive
of the greatest injustice.
The law of New York, protects all these instruments from the
prohibitions of usury, when they get into the hands of bona fide
,holders without notice. of their origin. Every one may btiy a bill
of exchange in the market at any rate; but if the purchaser sells a
bill, with his name upon it, at an illegal discount, it is usury, Znd
the bill is void. Every thing in relation to this bill should have been
admitted in evidence: and the jury-should have been enabled to
form a judgment on the intention of the parties; and should have
been allowed to know every thing as to the state of the exchange
between New York and Mobile, and the rate, as applied to bills of
all descriptions. One of the witnesses would have proved that
twenty per cent. was not a greater rate of exchange than had been
paid on doubtful bills.
The party taking the bill had a right to recover from his debtor,
such an amount as would have paid the amount due to him on the
protested bill of exchange in .New York. He had a right, then, to
the exchange on Mobile, and the exchange from Mobile to New

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

73

[Andrews vs. Pond et al.]

York. It is manifest thit, even on this evidence of the defendants,
if this were proper and just, the sum taken as exchange was even
less than it should have been.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the Court.This case comes before the Court upon a writ of error, directed to
the judges of the Circuit Court for the ninth circuit and southern
district of Alabama.
The action was brought by the-pldintiff as endorsee, against the
defendants as endorsers of a bill of exchange in the following
words :New York, March 11, 137.
"Sixty days after date of this first of exchange, second of same
tenour and date unpaid, pay Lo Messrs. Pond, Converse, and Wadsworth, or order, seven thousand two hundred and eighty-seven TW
dollars, negotiablq, and payable at the Bank of Mobile, value received, which place to the account of
"Your obedient servant
"To Messrs. Sayre, Converse & Co.
"D. CARPENTER."
I
Mobile, Alabama."
"Exchange for $7287,%&.

The case, as presented by the record, appears to be this. The
defendants were merchants, residing in Mobile, in the state of Alabama. H. M. Andrews and Co. were merhants residing in New
York; and before the above mentioned bill was drawn, the defendants had become liable to H. M. Andrews and Co. as endorsers
upon a former bill for $6000, drawn by E. Hendricks on Daniel
Carpenter, of Montgomery, Alabama. The last mentioned bill was
dated at New York, and fell due on the 21st of February, 1837, and
was protested for non-payment. The defendant Pond, it seems,
was-in New Y6rk in the month of March, 1837, shortly after this
protest; when H. M. Aidrews and Co. threatened to sue him on the
protested bill: and the defendant Pond, rather than be sued in New
York, agreed to pay H. M. Andrews and Co. ten per cent. damages
on the protested bill, and ten per cent. interest and exchange on a
new bill to be given, besides the expenses on the protested bill.
According to this agreement an account, which is given in the
record, was stated between them on the 11th of March, 1837, in
which the defendants were charged with the protested bill, and ten
per cent. damages on the protest, and interest and expenses, which
amounted altogether to the sum of $6625 25, and ten per cent. upon
this sum was then added, as the difference of exchange between,
Mobile and New York, which made the sum of $7287 78; for which
the defendant l'ond delivered to H. M. Andrews and Co. the bill of
exchange upon which this suit is brought, endorsed by the defendants
in blank. The bill was remitted by H. M. Andrews and Co. to S.
Andrews, at Mobile, for collection.. The drawees refused to accept
it, and it was protested for non-acceptance; and after this refusal
10
VoL. XIII.-G

74

SUPREME COURT.
[Andrews vs. Pond et al.)

and protest, it was transferred by S. Andrews to J. J. Andrews, the
present plaintiff. Itis stated in the exception, thkt after this transfer it was a cash credit in the account between H. M. Andrews and
Co. and S. Andrews. The bill was not paid at maturity, and this
suit is brought to recover the amount.
There is no question between the parties as to the 'principal or
damages of ten per cent. charged for the protested bill of $6000;
nor as to the interest and expenses charged in the account herein
before mentioned. The defendants admit that the principal amount
of the protested bill, the damages on the protest which are given by
the act of assembly of New York, and the interest and expenses,
were properly charged in the account. The sum of $6625 25 was
therefore due from them to H. M. Andrews and Co. on the day of
the settlement, payable in New York. The dispute arises on the
item of $662 53, charged in the account as the difference ofexchange
between New York and Mobile, and which swelled the amount for
which the bill was given to $7287 78. The defendants allege that
the ten per cent. charged as exchange, was far above the market
price of exchange at the time the bill was given, and that it was intended as a cover for usurious interest exactedby the said H. M.
Andrews and Co. as the price of their forbearance for the sixty
days given to the defendants. This was their defence in the Circuit
Court, where a verdict was found for the defendants under the directions given by the Court.
Many points appear to have been raised at this trial, which are
stated as follows, in the exception taken by the plaintiff.
The defendant offered evidence1. To prove that the said bill of exchange was usurious, according
to the statute and laws of the state of New York. The plaintiff objected to the reading of the statute and depositions aforesaid, because
the contract was not made .ith a view of the statute or laws of New
York. But the bill of exchange was usury or not by the laws and
statutes of Alabama; and that the contract was subject only to the
laws of the state of Alabama, as to its obligatory force and validity:
and he further objected, that if this contract were to be decided by
the statute of New York, that this proof 'could not be given under
this issue: but the Court overruled all these objections, and permfitted the depositions and statute to be read, to show the bill of exchange to be void by the laws of New York: to all which plaintiff
excepts.
2. Plaintiff then offered to prove by Joseph Wood, that the banks
purchased bills at a far less rate of exchange than others, that they
never bought any than undoubted paper ; that from the facility of
collecting, remitting, &c. they had many advantages over the citizens
at large, and that the exchange of the banks was therefore much
lower than the community at large; that there was no fixed rate
of exchange between Mobile and New York; that it varied from
one to twenty per cent. according to the solvency, punctuality, risk,
&c.; that exchange was ever fluctuating, and was high or low as

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

75

[Andrews vm.Pond et 41

the risk was great or small. The Court rejected this testimony
also, to which plaintiff excepts.
3. Plaintiff asked the Court to instruct the jury, that if they were
satisfied that the excess over legal interest retained in this bill
was taken and contracted for innocently by the parties; without intending to violate the laws against usury; that they might find for
plaintiff: but the Court refused this also, and plaintiff excepts.
4. Plaintiff moved the Court to charge the jury that the contract
expressed in this bill of exchange, if to be executed in Alabama,
was subject alone to the laws of Alabama against usury; and that
the usury laws of New York had no force, or any thing. to do with
this investigation. This was refused by the Court, and plaintiff
excepts.
5. Plaintiff next requested the Court to charge the jury, that if
they believed S. Andrews received the bill before maturity, for a
valuable consideration, without any notice of usury, and that plaintiff received it from S. Andrews, without notice of usury, and before maturity, that the plaintiff might recover; notwithstanding
plaintiff offered no proof of the consideration he gave for it. To
this refusal there was also an exception.
6. Plaintiff next moved the Court to charge that the variance
between the bill declared on, and the one set up as the same bill
by defendants' deposition, was fatal in a plea of usury; to which
the Court refused, and plaintiff excepts.
7. It appeared that before the bill was delivered by S. Andrews
to the plaintiff, it had been, while in the hands of S. Andrews,
protested for non-acceptance, which appeared on the face of the bill.
There was no evidence of any settled account between H. M. Andrews and Co. and S. Andrews, or which was creditor or debtor
upon the statement of accounts. It was also proved that the expense of transporting specie from New York to Mobile, including
insurance and interest, would not exceed one and one-half per cent. on
the sum transported. Upon the whole case, and the several points
stated, the Court charged the jury, that if they believed from the
evidence, that by the usages of trade between New York and Mobile, there was an established rate of exchange between those
places, the drawers and drawees of the bill of exchange here sued
on, had a right to contract for such rates of exchange; and that even
for a higher rate to a small amount, if under the circumstances it did
not appear to have been intended to evade the statute against usury,
might be allowed by them.
8. But if they believed that no such usage existed, the parties had
no right to contract for more than the actual expense of transportation
of specie from one place to the other, including interest, insurance,
and such reasonable variations therefrom, as above stated.
9. And, further, if they believed from the evidence, that the
drawers of the bill of exchange contracted with the drawee in the
state of New York, at the time the bill was drawn, for a greater
rate of interest than seven per centum per alnum, for the forbearance

SUPREME COURT.
[Andrews vs. Pond et al.]

of the payment of the sum of money specified in -the bill, although
it may have been taken in the name of exchange, 'the contract is
usurious ;',nd unless they believe from the evidence, that the plaintiff took the bill in the 'regular course of business, and upon a fair
and valuable consideration bona fide paid by him, and without
notice of the usury, they ought to find for the defendants, otherwise
for the plaintiff.
From the manner in which the points are arranged in this exception, and the similarity of the questions presented in some of them,
we shall be better understood by expressing our opinion on the
whole. case, as it appears before us, without regarding the order in
which the questions are stated in the exception; and without exa'mining separately each one of the instructions asked for by the
plaintiff, and refused by the Court.
The transaction, upon the face of it, does not profess to charge
any interest for forbearance. It is a bill of exchange in the usual
form; and in the account stated at the time, and which formed the
basis of the bill, the only item in relation to interest is the small
sum charged for the eighteen days which intervened between the
time when the first bill became due and the present one was given.
This interest is charged at seven per cent., which' is the legal rate
of interest established in New York. The transaction, taken altogether, was indeed a ruinous one on the part of the defendants. A
debt of $6000, payable at Mobile on the 21st of February, was converted into a debt of $7287 78, payable at the same place on the
25th of April following; being an increase of $1287 78 in the short
space of eighty-one days. Yet, if thQ defendants brought it upon
themselves by their failure to take up the first bill at maturity, and
the transaction was not intended to' cover usurious interest, they
must meet the consequence of their own improvidence. The sum
of $6625 25 was undoubtedly due from them to H. M. Andrews and
Co. on the day the bill in question was drawn. They were entitled to demand that sum in New York, or a bill that was equivalent
to it at the market price of exchange; and if ten per cent. discount
was the usual price at, which others purchased bills of this description in the market of New York, they had a right to take the bill at
that rate, in satisfaction of their debt. There is nothing, therefore,
upon the face of the papers, from which the Court can undertake to
say that usurious interest was exacted.
But although the transaction, as exhibited in the account, appears
on the. face of it to have been free from the taint of usury, yet if
the ten per cent. charged as exchange, or any part of it, was intended as a cover for usurious interest, the form in which it was
done, and the name under which it was taken, will not protect the
bill from the consequences of usurious agreements; and if the fact
be established, it must be dealt with in the same manner as if the
usury was expressly contracted for in the bill itself. But whether
this item was intended as a cover for usury or not, is a question exclusively for the jury. It is a question of intent. And in order

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

77

[Andrews vs. Pond et al.]

to enable the jury to decide whether usury was concealed under the
name of exchange; evidence on both sides ought to have been admitted, which tended to show the usual rate of exchange between
New York and Mobile, when this bill was negotiated. There is no
rule of law fixing the rate which may be lawfully charged for exchange. It does not altogether depend upon the cost of transporting specie from one place to another; although the price of exchange is, no doubt, influenced by it. But it is also materially
affected by the state of the trade, by the urgency of the demand
for remittances, and by the quantity brought into the market for
sale: and sometimes material changes take place in. a single day,
although no alteration has happened in the expenses of transporting specie. The Court, therefore, can lay down no rule upon the
subject. H. M. Andrews and Co., when about to take this bill in
payment of an existing debt, had a right to include in it a fair allowance for the difference in exchange. Whether they exacted more
or not, for the forbearance of their debt, is a question for the jury to
decide: and in. order to enable them to decide it correctly, they
must be allowed to hear the evidence which either of the parties
may offer, as to the rates of exchange for such a bill as this; which
was payable in specie, and not in any depreciated currency. Taking
this view of the subject, we think the Court below erred in rejecting the testimony of Joseph Wood, who was offered by the plai iff
to prove the rate of exchange; and also in the direction given to
the jury, that if there was no fixed rate of exchange, the -reditor
had a right to take no more than the actual expense of transporting
the specie, or a small amount more, where the addition was not intended to cover usury.
Another question presented by the exception, and much discussed
here is, whether the validity of this contract depends upon the laws
of New York or those of Alabama. So far as the mere qubstion
of usury is concerned, this question is not very important, There
is no stipulation for interest apparent upon the paper. The ten
per cent. in controversy is charged as the difference in exchange
only, and not for interest and exchange. And if it were otherwise,
the interest allowed in New York is seven per cent., and in Alabama eight; and this small difference of one per cent. per annum,
upon a forbearance of sixty days, could not materially affect the
rate of exchange, and could hardly have any influence on the inquiry to be made by the jury. But there are other consideratioips
which'make it necessary to decide this question. The laws of New
York make void the instrument when tainted with usury; and if this
bill is to be governed by the laws of New York,and if the jury should
find that it was given upon an usurious consideration, the plaintiff
would not be entitled to recover;. unless he was a bona fide holder,
without notice, and had given for it a valuable consideration: while
by the laws of Alabama he would be entitled to recover the principal amount of the debt, without any interest.
The general principle in relation to contracts made in one place
o2

SUPREME COURT.
tAndrews vs. Pond et aL]

to be executed in another, is well settled. They are to be governed
by the law of the place of performance--and if the interest allowed by the laws of the place of performance, is higher than that
permitted at the place of the contract, the parties may stipulate for
the higher interest, without incurring the penalties of usury. And
in the case before us, if the defendants had given their note to H.
M. Andrews and Co., for the debt then due to them, payable at Mobile, in sixty days, with eight per cent. interest, such a contiact
would undoubtedly have been valid; and would have been no violation of the laws of New York, although the lawful interest in that
state is only seven per cent. And, if in the account adjusted at the
time this bill of exchange was given, it had appeared that Alabama
interest of eight per cent. was taken for the forbearance of sixty
days given by the contract; and the transaction was in other respects free from usury; such a reservation of interest would have
been valid and obligatory upon the defendants; and would have
been no violation of the laws of New York.
But that is not the question which we are now called on to dekide. The defendants allege that the contract was not made with
reference to the laws of either state, and was not intended to conform to either. That a rate of interest forbidden by the laws of
New York, where the contract was made, was reserved on the debt
actually due; and that it was concealed under the name of exchange, in order to evade the law. Now, if this defence is true, and
shall be so found by the jury, the question is not which law is to
govern in executing the contract; but which is to decide the fate of
a security taken upon an usurious agreement, which neither will
execute ? Unquestionably, it must be the law of the state where
the agreement was made, and the instrument taken to secure its
performance. A contract of this kind cannot stand on the same
principles with a bona fide agreement made in one place to be executed in another. In the last mentioned cases the agreements were
permitted by the lex loci contractus; and will even be enforced there,
if the party is found within its jurisdiction. But the same rule
cannot be applied to contracts forbidden by its laws and designed
to evade them. In such cases, the legal consequences of such an
agreement must be decided by the law of the place where. the contract was made, If void there, it is void everywhere; and the
cases referred to in Story's Conflict of Laws, 203, fully establish this

doctrine.
In the case of De Wolfe vs. Johnson, 10 Wheat. 383, this Court
held that the lex loci contractus must govern in a question of usury;
although by the terms of the agreement the debt was to be secured
by a mortgage on real property in another state. And the case of
Dewar vs. Show, 3T, R. 425, shows with what strictness the
English Courts apply their own laws against usury to contracts
made .in England. In the case under consideration, the previous
debt for which the bill was negotiated was due in New York; a
part of it, thht is to say, the damages on the protest of the first bill

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

79,

[Andrews vs. Pond et al.]

were given by a law of that state; and the debt was then .bearing

the New York interest of seven per cent., as appears by the account before referred to. And, if in consideration of further indulgence in the time of payment, the parties stipulated for a higher
interest, and agreed to conceal it under the name of exchange; the
validity of the instrument, which was executed to carry this agreement into effect, must be determined by the laws of New York, and
not by the laws of Alabama.
in this aspect of the case, another question arose in the trial in
the Circuit Court. By the laws of New York, as they then stood,
usury was no defence against the holder of a note or bill who had
received it in good faith, and to whom it was transferred for a
valuable consideration, and without notice of the usury. The
present plaintiff claims the benefit of this provision. But upon the
evidence in the case, it is very clear that he does not bring himself
within it. The bill of exchange was protested for non-acceptance,
while it was in the hands of S. Andrews, the agent of H. M. Andrews and Co., to whom it had been sent for collection; and this fact
appeared on the face of the bill at the time it was transferred to the,
plaintiff. Now, a person who takes a bill, which upon the face of
it was dishonoured, cannot be allowed to claim the privileges which
belong to a bona fide holder without notice. If he chooses to receive it under such circumstances, he takes it with all the infirmities
belonging to it; and is in no better condition than the person from
whom he received it. There can be no distinction in principle between a bill transferred after it is dishonoured for non-acceptance,
and one transferred after it is dishonoured for non-payment; and
this is the rule in the English Courts, as appears by the case of
Crossley vs. Ham, 13 East, 498. Now it is evident, that no consideration pas-ed between Carpenter, the drawer of the bill, and the
defendants, who are the payers and endorsers. The bill was made
and endorsed by the defendants, for the purpose of being delivered
to H. M. Andrews and Co., in execution of the agreement for further
indulgence. And if that agreement was usurious, then the bill in
qu4tion was tainted in its inception; and that taint must continue
upon it in the hands of the present plaintiff.
There is one other direction given by the Circuit Court, which remains to be conisidered. It is the third, as stated in the exception.
The vagueness and generality of the terms in which this instruction
was asked for by the counsel for the plaintiff, justified the Court in
refusing it. It will be seen from what we have already said, that
if the rate of exchange taken upon this bill was a fair one, and
was not intended to cover usurious interest, the plaintiff is entitled
to recover; and if the payer means nothing more than this, there
could be no objection to it. But, if it was intended to maintain
that although a higher rate of exchange was allowed than the fair
market price, and that this was done in consideration of the forbearance of payment, under the belief that the law would not in that
shape regard it as usury, the mistake of the parties in this respect,

SUPREME COURT.
(Andrews vs. Pond et al.]

will not alter the character of the transaction. The instruction as
asked for was framed in such general terms, that it might have
misled the jury; and the Court, therefore, were not bound to give it.
Infine, if the parties intended to allow no more than a fair rate
of exchange, testing it by the market price of good bills of this description, it was not usury; and the plaintiff is entitled to recover.
If, on the contrary, more was intended to be taken, it was usury;
and the plaintiff is not entitled to recover. It is true, that after
this bill had been negotiated between H. M. Andrews and Co. and
the defendants, other persons might have lawfully purchased it at
a much greater discount than the market rate of exchange; and
might have considered and estimated in the price they gave for it,
the known embarrassments, the want of punctuality, and the loss
of credit of the defendants, whose former bill had already been protested. But, as between the debtor and his creditor, no difference
in the rate of exchange can be made on that account. If, in consideration of further forbearance, the creditor receives a new security
from his debtor for an existing debt, he cannot enlarge the amount
due by exacting any thing either by way of interest or exchange,
on account of the additional risk he may suppose he runs by this
extension of credit; nor on account of any doubts he may entertain
as to the punctuality of payment, or the ultimate safety of his debt.
It is hardly necessary to add, that the right of the defendant to
offer in evidence, under the plea of non assump9it, that the instrument was given upon an usurious contract, has been too well
settled to be now disputed: and we see nothing in the record, upon
which a question for the Court could be raised, upon the supposed
variance between the bill mentioned in the testimony produced by
the defendants, and the bill declared on by the plaintiff.
Upon the whole, we dissent from the Circuit Cburt in the second
and eighth points in the exception, as we have already mentioned;
and we concur with them in the residue.
The judgment of the Circuit Court must, therefore, be reversed
with costs.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the southern district
of Alabama, and was argued by counsel.
On consideration whereof, it is ordered and adjudged by this
Court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause be,
and the same is hereby, reversed with costs; and that this cause be,
and the same is hereby, remanded to the said Circuit Court, with
directions to award a venire facias de novo.

