SUPREME COURT.

THOMAS

P.

MOORE, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, VS. THE BANK OF THE
I METROPOLIS,

DEFENDANTS IN

ERROR.

The defendant in an action in the Circuit Court, had with others, received the proceeds of a
joint and several promissory note discounted for them at the Bank of the Metropolis, and
this note was afterwards renewed by their attorney under a power of attorney authorizing
him to give a joint note, but he gave a joint and several note; the proceeds of which the
attorney received, and appropriated to pay the note already discounted at the Bcnk.
The interest of the sum borrowed 'as paid out of the money of the parties to the note.
Held, that although the power of attorney may not have been executed in exact conformity to its terms; and may not have authorized the giving of a joint and several note;
a question the Court did not decide; yet the receipt of the proceeds of the note by the
attorney, and the appropriation thereof to the payment of the former note, was sufficient
evidence to sustain the-money counts in the declaration.
When an exception is taken on a trial to evidence, after it has been given without objection to the whole matter stated in the exception, if any part of it was admissible, the
objection may be properly overruled. It is the duty of a party taking exceptions to
evidence, to point out the part excepted to, where the evidence csnsisted of a number of
particulars, so that the attention of the Court may be drawn to the particular objections.

IN error to the Circuit Court of the United States, for the county
of Washington, in the District of Columbia.
The Bank of the Metropolis, on the 27th of September, 1837,
instituted an action of assumpsit against Thomas P. Moore, the
plaintiff in error, on a promissory note dated the 16th day of February, 1837, payable sixty days after date; by which the defendant,
Thomas P. Moore, P. H. Pope, and Richard M. Johnson, by
George Thomas, their attorney at Washington, jointly and severally
promised to pay to the plaintiffs the sum of five thousand dollars
current money of the United States, for value received.
The declaration also contained a count on the same note, stating
it to be the note of Thomas P. Moore, to the plaintiffs, and also a
count for the amount of the same note as so much money paid, laid
out and exlended, at the special instance and request of the defendant, and for the same sum had and received by the defendant
to the use of the plaintiffs.
The defendant pleaded non assumpsit, and the cause was tried
before a jury in November 1838, and a verdict and judgment rendered in favour Of the plaintiffs. The defendant filed two bills of
exceptions, to the ruling of the Court on matters presented on the
trial; and he afterwards prosecuted this writ of error.
Th6 first bill of exceptions stated:
On the trial of this cause the plaintiffs, to sustain the action on
their part, proved by a competent witness, that on the 27th March,
1834, the Said defendant with Richard M. Johnson and P. H. Pope,
executed their joint and several note, and on the same day by
their checks, drew from the said plaintiffs the proceeds thereof,
which had been carried to their credit; tha-i said note was not
paid at maturity, but lay over unpaid until the 30th January,
18.36, when it was cancelled; that on the 30th day of January,

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

30

[Moore vs. The Bank of the Metropolis.]

1836, the said parties executed and delivered to the said plaintiffs
their promissory note, which was discounted by said plaintiffs and
the proceedg'thereof carried to the credit of said drawers, and the
interest in arrears paid. That on the 29th of February, 1836, the
said parties executed and delivered to George Thomas, at that time
cashier of the Bank of Metropolis, a power of attorney, which said
power of attorney was given for the single purpose of acting for said
parties in relation to said last mentioned note and the renewal thereof;
.and that the said George Thomas, professing to act by virtue of said
power of attorney, under s~tid power of attorney made and executed the note mentioned and described in the declaration; that the
same was then discounted by said bank, the proceeds carried to the
credit. of the said draweis, and the arrears of interest upon the
former and last preceding note, together with the discount of this
note paid and credited on said account, and the said note dated 30th
January, 1836, was cancelled, but witness does not recollect'by
what .person said interest or discount was paid. To the admissibility of which-notes or any of them, or any matter above stated in
evidence, the defendant objects; but the Court overruled the objection and permitted all of said notes, hnd the proceedings in regard
to them and the matters stated, to be given in evidence to the jury.
To which opinion Of the Couirt the defendant excepted.
The second bill of exceptions stated:
In addition to the evidence contained in the aforegoing bill of exceptions, tl -plaintiffs offered evidence tending to prove that the
banks in Washington county in the District of Columbia, have been
in the practice (some banks for less, "and some for more than
twenty years) of taking and discounting notes in the form of the
one now in suit, madeT directly to the banks or some of theofficers
for their use whenever offered, and that the banks preferred to loan
upon such paper; that the reason of this practice has been one of
mutual convenience to the borrower and the banks, the first being
saved from the costs of protest, and the last being saved the risk of
a failure to give notice to the endorser; and that it was veryusual
for the banks to lend money on a pledge of stock, taking in return
the single note of the borrower, payable to the banks, or some of
The plaintiffs further gave
their officers, without endorsement.
evidence by competent testimony, tending to prove that it had been
the, practice of, and usage of the various banks in Washington
county in this district, to discount, indiscrimninttely, paper on which
there was an endorser or endorsers, or on which all the parties were
drawers, and the paper drawn directly to the bank itself, or some of
its officers, acting in behalf of the bank; that both were considered
equally the subjects of discount, but that the witness cannot recollect at this moment any particular instance, in which, when all the
parties were non-residents, as is and was the case with the alleged
makers of this note, the bank has discounted on that paper alone,
though he has no doubt such cases existed; but that in all of the
said banks the major part of the accommodation paper dis.coiinted

304

SUPREME COURT.
(Moore vs. The Bank of the Metropolis.]

was in the form of notes drawn by one party in favour of anothei
person who endorsed it to the bank, and that this particular note in
suit was discounted in the usual manner. The defendant then
offeredevidence tending to prove that on the 27th of March, 1834,
the plaintiffs discounted the joint and several note of R. M. Johnson, P. H. Pope, and'the defendant,, for the amount of $5000,
(being the same note inserted in the first bill of exceptions,) and
that at the time of discounting said note, the plaintiffs reserved'out
of the proceeds thereof the sum of $103 33, as interest, or discount
upon the same, for four months and four days; that the said
note lay over unpaid until the 30th day of January, 1836, when the
sum of $450 was paid on the same, as interest in arrear; and that
on the same day a second note was given by the same parties to theplaintiffs (the same note which is also inserted in the first bill of
exceptions) in renewal of the first described note, payable in six
months from its date, which was discounted by the plaintiffs, who
at the time of said last nientioned discounting received the sum of
$153 33, as interest on the same for six months and four days; that
the said second note, also, lay over until the 16th day of February,
1837, when the sum of $166 67, was paid on it as interest in arrear,
from the.30th July, 1836, to 16th February, 1837, and on the same
day the note in suit was given in renewal of the last described note,
which said note in suit was discounted on the day of its date by
the plaiutiffs, who received on said day of its date, the sum of fiftythree dollars-and thirty-three cents, as the interest in advance, for
sixty-four days. Whereupon the defendant orayed the court to
instruct the jury as follows:
1st. If the jury believe from the evidence, that the note in suit
was given in renewal of other notes previously given by the same
parties to the plaintiffs, and that the plaintiffs received or reserved
in advance, as discount, the interest, at the rate of six per centum
per anhum, on the amount of debt mentioned in said notes, or any
of' them, for the times they or any of them had to run, then the
receipt or reservation of said interest in advance, is evidence of
usury; and the jury may infer (isury from the same.
2d. That if the jury believe from the evidence, that the note in
suit was given in renewal of other notes successively given by the
same parties to the plaintiffs, for the amount of $5000 loaned to the
said parties by the plaintiffs; and that at the time of the original
loan the plaintiffs reserved the interest on the said sum of $50Q0, at
the rate of six per centum per annum, for the time the original note
had to run, or that at the time of renewing or discounting the note
in suit, the plaintiffs received of the makers thereof, or any one for
them, the interest in advance for the period of sixty-four days, then
said facts are evidence of usury in the transaction, and the jury%
may infer usury from said fact§ on the note in suit.
3d. That if the jury believ'e from the evidence, that the note in
suit was given to the plaintiffs in -renewal of a note for the same
amount, drawn by the same parties, directly to the plaintiffs, as

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

305

[Moore v8. The Bank of the Metropolis.]

payees, payable six months after date, which had been previously
discounted by the plaintiffs, for the accommodation of the said parties, and that on said note, drawn at six months, the plaintiffs received at the time of discounting it, the interest in advance for six
months and four days, at the rate of six per cent. per annum on the
amount of said note, then the said facts are evidence of usury, and
it is competent for the jury to infer usury in the note in.suit.
4th. If the jury believe from the evidence, that the plaintiffs received on the day of the date of the note in suit, the sum of $166 67,
as and for interest alleged to be due from the 30th July, 1836, to
the 16th February, 1837, (six months and seventeen days,) on a
prior note for $5000, given by the same parties to the plaintiffs, falling due dn the said 30th July, 1836, and that the note in suit was
given in renewal of said note, falling due on the 30th July, 1836,
then the plaintiffs have taken illegal interest, and it is competent for
the jury to infer that the note in suit was given in pursuance of an
usurious agreement.
5th. That the written power of attorney, executed to George
Thomas by the defendant, together with R. M. Johnson and P. H.
Pope, gives; no authority to said Thomas to execute a joint and
several note in behalf of said parties; and that the defendant cannot
be charged in this action by reason of any. joint and sever4l note,
purporting to be executed by the said R. M. Johnson, P. H. Pope,
and- this defendant, by the said Thomas, as their attorney, under
said
written power.
But
the Court refused to give any of the said instructions
to the
jury, and the defendant excepted.
The power of attorney referred to in the bills of exceptions was
in the following terms.
Whereas we have a joint and several note of hand disc6unted in
the Bank of the Metropolis-Now
Know all men by these presents, that we, Richard M. Johnson,
Thomas P. Moore and P. H. Pope, all of the State of Kentucky, do
hereby nominate, constitute and appoint George Thomas, of the
city of Washington, our true and lawful attorney in fact, and by
these.presents do authorize and empower him, for us, and in our
names, to sign our joint note to the president and directors of the
Bank of the Metropolis, for five thousand dollars, for our accommodation, and the same to renew, from time to time, as it may become due, for the whole or any part thereof-Hereby ratifying.and
confirming all and every the act and acts of our said attorney,
in and about the premises, so long as the bank shall continue the
accommodation' to us. In witness whereof, we have hereunto set
our hands and seals, at the city of Washington, the e9th day of
February, 1836.
[SEAL.]
Rn. M. JoHNSON,
[SEAL.]
P. H. Pom',
T. P. MOORE.
[SEAL,]
Witness, SA. ,STETTINIUS.
39
2o2

306

SUPREME COURT.
[Moore vs. The Bank of the Metropolis.]

The case was argued by Mr. Brent, Jun., for the plqintiff in
error; and by Coxe for the defendant.
Mr.- Brent contended that the Circuit Court had erred in refusing
to give each instruction prayed for; and it was further insisted on,
in behalf of the appellant;
1st. That the usage of the banks, as given in evidence, can have
no possible bearing on the questions of law involved in the instructions asked for, but that, being a question of fact, it was incumbent
on the appellees to have asked for an instruction as to its effect, if
believed by the jury.
2d. That the usage proved is insufficient to exempt the transaction from usury.
3d. That no established usage is proved in the case.
The objection of the plaintiff in error, is to the allowance of the
Court to the plaintiff below, to give a joint and several note in evidence, under a power of attorney authorizing the execution of a
joint note only. The power was to give a joint note, and the
note on which the suit was brought was a joint and several
,note. In 2 Johns. Rep. 19, it is decided that an authority to give a
note of a particular date, is not an authority to give a note of any
other date..
A joint note is not the same as a joint and several note; on the
former, one writ only can issue, all the parties must be sued together;
Out on a joint and several note, suit may be brought against each
of the persons who are parties-to it. This is material as to costs.
Anotler matter for consideration, and one which is material, is
that the act of the assembly of Maryland gives a right to contribution in favour of those who are sureties from co-sureties; and a
surety paying may have an assignment of the judgment when he
pays it. This makes it most important that the power of attorney
should be strictly pursued. .When the attorney departs from the
authority given to him by his principal, although for his benefit,
his acts do not bind the principal. 7 Barnwell and Creswell, 278.
Ambler's Rep. 498.
It was argued in the Circuit Court that the word "several," in a
power of attorney may be rejected as surplusage, and the joint
powers given retained. This position cannot be sustained. Cited
Sugden on Powers, 210; to show how important and essential an
adherence to forms is deemed.
Admitting that the-execution of a power may be sustained, where
there is surplusage in the terms of it, yet this exists only when the
acts to be done, or done under it, are Aivisible. But this set-off can
only be obtained by the aid of-a. Court of Chancery.
In this case the action was brought on the note as."joint and
seVeral." Then the election was to treat the note as "joint and
several;" and yet, when the objection was made, the note was set
up as a joint note. A power of attorney to three persoxm to execlte
the powers granted, cannot be executed by two. An authority to

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

307

[Moore v3. The Bank of the Metropolis.]

do a thing in one way, cannot be performed by executing it in
another way. The note should not, therefore, have been given in
evidence.

Cited 1 Peters, 29. 1 Roll's Abridg. 529. L. placetum, 15.

As to the ratification of the act of an attorney by the receipt of the
money, and its appropriation to pay, a prior note for the same sum,
then due, it must be considered as not having been the act of the
'defendant. He was absent, and ignorant of the transaction.
It may be said that there was evidence to support the money
counts in the declaration. But this cannot affect the right of the
plaintiff to have the judgment of the Circuit Court reversed. Cited
Greenleaf vs. Birth, 5 Peters,135.
The counisel was proceeding to argue the question of usury,
raised by the second bill of exceptions: the Court would not permit
the argument, the point being considered settled.
Coxe for the defendant:The discounting of the note by the bank was a continuation of a
former loan. Cited Barry vs. Foyles, 1 Peters, 316. Minor vs. The
Mechanics' Bank of Alexandria, 1 Peters, 47.
If parties to a joint note are sued severally, they should plead the
matter in abatement. It is not regular to make the objection under
a plea to the general, issue.
But the verdict of the jury was upon the whole matter and tne
evidence given was legal, and sufficient to sustain the money counts
in the declaratiQn.
Mr. Brent stated that the'object of the plaintiff in error was to
get rid of the verdict for five thousand dollars. He is perfectly
willing to pay his portion of the debt.
Mr. Justice TaopIesoN derivered the opinion of the Court:This case comes up on a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the
United States, for the District of Columbia, in the county of Washington,
It is an action of assumpsit, upon a promissory note, purporting
to'have been made by the defendant, and Richard M. Johnson, and
P. H. Pope, by their attorney, George Thomas; the note, bearing
date the 16th of February, 1837; by vhich the niakers, jointly and
severally, promise to pay to the President and Directors of the
Bank of the, Metropolis or order, sixty days after date, the sum of
five thousand dollars.
The, declaration also contains the common money counts: and
upon the trial of the cause, the plaintiffs offered in evidence, to sustain the action, sundry matters set out in the followinv bill of exceptions:_
FIRST BILL OF EXCEPTIONS.

On the trial of this cause the plaintiffs, to sustain the action on
their part, prved, by a competent witness, that on the 27th March,

SUPREME COURT.
[Moore vs. The Bank of the Metropolis.]

1834, the said defendant, with Richard M. Johnson and P. H. Popse,
executed their joint and several note as follows:" TWshington City, March 27th, 1334.
"$5000.
Foux months after date ve jointly and sev'erally pTomise to pay
to the President, Directors, and Co. of. the Bank of the Metropolis,
or order, five thousand dollars, without defalcation, value received,
"RH. M. JOHNSON,
payable at said bank.
"T. P. MooRE,
"P. H. POPE."

And on the same day, by their checks, drew from the said plaintiffs
the proceeds thereof, which had been carried to their credit:"Washington City, Mffarch 27th, 1834.
"Cashier of the Bank of the Metropolis, pay to bearer forty-eight
"P. H. POPE,
hundred and ninety-six 67-100 dollars.

" R. M. JOHNSON,
"T. P. -MooRE."

That said note was not paid at maturity, but lay over unpaid until
the 30th January, 183.6, when it was cancelled; that on the 30th
day of January, 1836, the said parties executed and delivered to the
said plaintiffs their promissory note, as follows:Six months after date we jointly and severally promise to pay
to tie President and Directors of the Bank of the Metropolis, or
order, five thousand dollars, without defalcation, value received,
"RH. M. JOHNSON,
this 30th day of January, 1836.
"P. H. POPE,
$5000.
"r. p. MooRE.
"Cr. of R. M. Johnson, and others, to renew a note of same
amount."
Which was discounted by said plaintiffs, and the proceeds thereof
carried to the credit of said drawers, and the interest in arrears paid.
That on the 29th of February, 1836, the said parties executed and
delivered to George Thomas, at that time cashier of said Bank of
the Metropolis, a power of attorney, in the words and figures following, that is to say
"Whereas we have a joint and several note of hand discounted in
the Bank of the Metropolis-Now
"Know all men by these presents, that we, Richard lv. Johnson,
Thomas P. Moore, and P. H. P6pe, all of the state of Kentucky, do
hereby nominate, constifute, and appoint George Thomas, of the
city of Washington, our true and lawful attorney in fact, and by
these presents do authorize and empower. hint, for us, and in our
names, to sign our joint note to the President and Directors of the

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

309

[Moore vs. The Bank of the Metropolis.]

Bank of the Metropolis, for five thousand dollars, for our accommodation, and the same to renew, from time to time, as it may become
due, for the whole or any part thereof-Hereby ratifying and, confirming all and every the act and acts of our said attorney, in 'and
about the premises so long as the bank shall continue the accommodation to us. In witness whereof, we -have hereunto set our
hands and seals, at the city of Washington, the 29th day of February, 1836.
"DISTRICT Or COLUMBIA, Washington County, to wit:
"lOn this 29th day of February, in the year eighteen hundred and
thirty-six, personally appeared Richard M. Johnson, P. H. Pope,
and T. P. Moore, before me, the subscriber, a justice of the peace
in and for the county aforesaid, and acknowledged the above power
of attorney to be their act and deed, for the purposes mentioned

therein.

"SAi

'L STETTINIUS,

J. Peace."

Which said power of attorney was given for the single purpose of
acting for said parties in relation to said last mentioned note and the
renewal thereof; and that the said George Thomas, professing to
act by virtue of said power of attorney, under Said power of attorney made and executed the note mentioned and described in the
declaration, to Wit:" $5000.
"Washington, 16th Feb. 1837.
"Sixty days after date, we jointly and severally promise to pay
the President and Directors of the Bank of the Metropolis, or order,
at the said bank, five thousand dollars, for value received.
"RIcHARD M. JOHNSON, Tuos. P. MOORE, P. H. POPE,
"By their attorney, GEo. TbOMAs."

That the same was then discounted by said bank, the proceeds carried to the credit of the said drawers, and the arrears of interest
upon the former and last preceding note, together with the discount
of this note paid and credited on said account, and the said note
dated 30th January, 1836, was cancelled, but witness does not
recollect by what 'person said interest or discount was paid. To the
admissibility of which notes, or any of them, or any matter above
stated in evidence, the defendant objects; but the Court overruled
the objection, and permitted all of said notes, and the proceedings
in regard to them and the matters stated, to be given in evidence to
the jury. To which opinion of the Court the defendant excepted.
There was another bill of exceptions taken at the trial, growing
out of the refusal of the Court to give certain instructions prayed ;
touching the alleged usury in the note, by reason of the interest
having been taken in advance on discounting the note. But it is
unnecessary to notice these instructions. For all exceptions on this
account were. abandoned at the argument, as raising a question too
well settled to be now drawn into discussion. The last prayer con.

310

SUPREME COURT.
[Moore vs. The Bank of the Metropolis.]

tained, in this bill of exception, which raised the question whether
the power of attorney given to George Thomas authorized him to
sign the note upon which this suit is brought, will be noticed under
the first bill of exceptions, where the power is set out at length, so
far as is necessary for the decision of this case; so that the second
bill of excpptions-may be laid'entirely out of view.
The general questions arising under the first bill of exceptions
are, whether the evidence offered was admissible, and if so, whether
it was sufficient to maintain the action, either upon the count on the
note signed by George Thomas, or on the money counts. The exception was taken after the evidence had been given (without objection) to the whole matter stated in the exception ; and if any
part of it was admissible, the objection was properly overruled. It
is tie duty of a party, taking exception to the admissibility of evidence, to point out the part excepted to, when the evidence consists of a number of particulars, so that the attention of the Court
may be drawn to the particular objection. The objection here
taken, was in the broadest possible manner to all the matter stated
in the bill of exceptions. That some part of this.eviden(e was admissible',under the money counts, cannot be doubted. One of the
notes to which the objection extended, is the one upon which the
first count in the declaration is founded. And whether that was
admissible or not, depends upon the power of attorney, to George
Thomas, set out in the exception, uilder and by virtue of which he
made the note in question.
That power, it will be seen, authorized him to sign a joint note;
whereas, the one he gave was a joint and several note.
If it waF necessary to decide this question in order to maintain the
action, it may well be questioned whether the power did not authorize the making a joint and several note. There is some diversity
of opinion on the Bench upon that point. The object of the power,
as appears upon its face clearly was to make a note as the renewal
of a jdint and sever al.iote, which the parties had running in the
banlk. It recites as fbllows: " Whereas, we have a joint and several note of hand discounted in the Bank of the Metropolis," ahd then
proceeds to empower' George ' homdts to renew the same from time
to time as it fell due. But there may have existed some reason v, hy.
they preferred changing the form, by giving a joint instead of a joint
and several note. The power is certainly not strictly pursued,
though probably according to the intention of the parties. But as the
cause does not turn entirely on this point, we pass it by. The action
is clearly maintainable on the money counts. If the note was properly given under the power, it was admissible under the first count,
or under the money counts. If signed by the attorney without sufficient authority, it was void, and to be laid out of view, and the
cause stands upon the other evidence given at the trial; which shows
the original loan by the bank, to Richard M. Johnson, T. P. Moore,
and P. H. Pope, -4pon their note, dated 27th Mach, 1834, by which
they jointly and severally promised to pay the bank five thousand

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

311.

LMoore vs. the Bank of the Metropolis.)

dollars, in four months after date. By their joint check of the same
date, they drew out of the bank $4896 67, the proceeds of the note,
deducting the discount. That note not being paid, another jointand
several note was given-by them, bearing date the 30th of January,
1836, for $5000, payable six months after date; which was discounted by the bank, and Itepiceeds carried to the credit of the makers,
deducting the discount and arrears of interest. And the power of
attorney was afterwards given to George Thomas, authorizing him
to make another note, as a renewal of the one last mentioned; and
under which authority, he made the note now in question, which
was discounted, and the proceeds carried to the credit of the makers;
and the arrears of interest on the note then in bank, and the discount upon the note now in question, was paid, and credited in account with the makers, and the note of 30th of January, 1836, was
cancelled. This evidence is amply sufficient to show, $5000 was
originally advanced to the makers of these notes, and that upon the
several renewals, they have been credited with the proceeds, and
all the notes given up and cancelled, without payment in any way,
except by the note made by George Thomas, under the power of
attorney; and if that note is void, the bank is without a remedy,
except upon the money counts, to recover the money paid upon the
check of P. H. Pope, R. M. Johnson, and T. P. Moore. This money has gone to the joint use of the three, who might all have been
joined in the action. But if any objection could be made to the
suit against Moore alone, by reason of the non-joinder of the other
two, it should have been pleaded in abatement, and cannot be taken
advantage of upon the general issue. This is a well settled rule in
pleading; and is fully recognised by, this Court, in the case of Barry
vs. Foyles, I Peters, 316.
The judgment of the. Court below is accordingly affirmed with
costs.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States, for the District of Columbia, holden in and for the county of Washington, and was argued
by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is ordered and adjudged
by this Court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court, in this
cause, be, and the same is hereby, affirmaed, with costs and damages
at the rate of six per centum per annum.

