SUPREME COURT.

464

THOMAS

0.

BURTON,

APPELLANT, VS. WILLIAM
OTHERS, APPELLEES.

L.

SMITH AND

'Under the laws of Virginia in relation to lands of which the debtor has an actual seisin,
although there is no statute in Virginia Which expressly makes a judgment or lien on the
lands of the debtor, yet during the existence of the right of the plaintiff to take out an
elegit, the lien of the judgment'is universally acknowledged.
All the authorities, ancient and modem, agiee in this proposition, that a reversion after an
estate for life is assets, or, as some of the books express it, quasi assets, in the hands of
• the'heir, in regard to the bond of the ancestor, binding heirs ; and that in such case, the
plaintiff may take judgment of it, quando acciderit. Upon principle, it 'Would seem to
be clear, that whatever estate descended to the heir, which was liable as assets to the
bond debt of the ancestor, must be bound by a judgment obtained against the ancestor
in his lifetime.
There is a current of authorities going to prove that a reversion after an estate for life is
bound by a judgment obtained against the ancestor, from whom it immediately descended.
So far from its being proper for a Court to hesitate about decreeing a sale of an interest because it is reversionary, the character 'of the interest affords a stronger reason for such,a
decree, For although in regard to property in present actual possession, the elegit,
although tardy in its operation, yet is in some degree an effective remedy, inasmuch
as the creditor will by that means annually receive something towards his debt; whereas,
in the case of a dry reversion, if the outstanding life estate should continue during half
a century, the creditor might look on in hopeless despondency, without the possibility of
receiving a cent from that source, except. through the interposition of a Court of equity
in decreeing a sale.
It is the very nature and essence of a lien, that no matter into whose hands the property
goes, it pases cum onere. If this were not the cape, it wouldcease to boa lien.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
eastern district of Virginia.
The case, as stated in the opinion of the Court, was as follows:
"In the month of June, 1827, Smith and Kennedy obtained a
judgment in the Circuit Court, against Reuben Burton, for $1348 75,
with interest from the 14th of October, 182, and costs. On this
judgment an elegit was issued, on the 31st of December, 1827 On
the 12th of August, in the same year, Reuben BurtOn, by deed conveyed. his real estate to certaiiA)trustees, in trust, to sell the same for
the benefit of his creditors; amongst many other debts enumerated
in the deed, the judgment already mentioned, recovered by Smith
and Kennedy,was included.
These last mentioned creditors, the appellees, never assented to,
or accepted anything under the 'trust deed. Burton having died; the
only trustee who accepted the trust, on the 21st of December, 1829,
sold, under the deed, all the estate, both real and personal, conveyod
.by it; and at that sale, Sarah Burton, by her agent, purchased, at
-the price of $1000, the interest of.Reuben Burton, that is, twofifth parts of a certain tract of land called Springfield, supposed to
contain about five hundred acres, and also his interest in certain
coal pits on the same tract. The character of Reuben Burton's interest in the Springfield tract of land, as appears from the record,
was that of a reversion in fee after an estate far life. And the cha-

JANUARY TERM; 1839.

465

[Burton vs. Smith et a].]

racter of his interest in the coal pits, as appears from an agreement
in the record, was this: The heirs of Daniel Burton, of Whom
Reuben Burton was onewere to have, during tho, widow'9 life, the
right of occupying, using, and working the coalpits, and the right
and power of sinking'shafts, and searching for coal on-any part of
the land, except the yard, &c., paying to the widow, during her life,
the yearly sum of $20o, for her dower interest. The same agreement will show his interest in a mineral spring included in the decree.
After the death of Reuben Burton, the appellees, finding. that
there was no personal estate to satisfy their debt, in September, 1834,
filed their bill to enforce the lien created by their judgment making,
amongst others, Sarah Burton a defendant, as purchaser of the in-'
terestof Reuben BurtoA before described, in the Springfield tract
of land and coal pits.
She answered, saying, that the property conveyed to her was not
purchased for her own benefit, but for the benefit of her son Thomas 0. Burton, the appellant. She insisted, ini her answer, that the
appellees had no right to enforce their judgment, as more than five
years had elapsed since the death of Reuben Burton. She denied
that the judgment created any 'lien on the property purchased by
her, which was valid against her. She insisted that the appellees
were entitled to no relief in equity; and that, at all events, a sale
should not be decreed.
An amended bill was thereupon filed, making Thomas 0. Burton.
a defendant. He filed an answer, insisting on the grounds taken by
Sarah Burton.
The cause coming on to be heard, the Court held. the reversionary
interest of Reuben Burton in the Springfield tract of land, and his
interest in the right'of occupying and working the coal pits thereon,
and, also, his interest in the mineral spring thereon, with the twentyfive acres of land adjoining tfieret6, liable to the appellees' judgment;
and decreed a moiety of Reuben Burton's interest to be sold."
From this decree an appeal was taken."
The case was submitted to the Court on printed arguments, by
Mr.' Lyons, for the appellant; and by Mr. Robinson for the appellees.
The argument of Mr. Lyons was as follows:
The appellant insists that the decree of the Circuit Court is erroneous, and ought to be reversed. 1st, Because the judgment in
favour of the appellees against Reuben Burton, gave no lien upon
the interest or share of Reuben Burton in the Springfield coal property, which was purchased by Sarah Burton for the appellant; and
which, by the decree of the Circuit Court, -was adjudged to be sold.
By'the common law.a judgment conferred no lien upon lands.
That lien is the result entirely of the power to extend the lands, and
is therefore a statutory power conferred by the act commonly called
59

SUPREME COURT.
[Buron w. Smith et al.]

-the'statute of Westminster. This position is known to be familiar
to the Court; but if authority is desired for it, it may be found in the
opi on of Lord Hardwicke, in the case of Stileman vs. Ashdown, 9
Atkyns' Reports, 608, and every subsequent decision upon that subject j and especially in the opinion of the late Chief Justice of the
United States, in the case of the Bank of the United States vs. Win$ton et al.,2 Brockenbrough's Reports, 252; which is quoted, not only
because of the high character of the authority, and the just weight
which will be attached to it, but because of the distinct and emphatic .manner in which the position is laid down, and the righto of
the party claiming under the judgment are, in a Court of equity,
limited and confined to the right and power conferred by the judgment. The first inquiry then is, could the appellees have extended
the interest before mentioned, of Reuben Burton in the Springfield
coal lands? It is submitted that they could not. It will be perceived
by the Court, that the entire tract of land upon which the Springfield
pits are, with the houses, &c., constituted the niansion establishment
of Daniel Burton, the father of Reuben, who died intestate, leaving
a Widow, Sarah Burton, and several children. Until dower was
assigned the widow she had the right to, retain the mansion establishment, and to derive her maintenance from it. While it remained in
that condition, therefore, it is assumed that no elegit could be levied
upon it; because if an elegit issue against one child, so might one isspe
against each child; and thus the whole would be taken and put into the
,possession of the creditors, and the widow expelled, and kept out,
until by her writ she was restored. The children could not lawfully
expel the widow; the creditors of the children, standing in their place,
could not of eburse do it. If all could not do it, surely one could not.
The lands in the hands of the widow before assignment of dower,
could not therefore be taken under an elegit. No assignment of
dower has taken place, unless the Court shall regard the agreement
entered into by Mrs, Burton and her children (exhibited by defendants,) as such assignment. Is the condiiion of the appellees aided
by that paper,? It is submitted that so fit from it, the cordition is
made worse. , If that agreement had not been entered into, any
creditor of Reuben Burton might have filed his bill against thQ
widow and heirs, and compelled an assignment of dower, which
being made, he might have levied his .elegit upon the share of
Reuben Burton; but this agreement deprives the appellees of that
power, becase it is founded upon a good as well as valuable consideration-was entered into before any right existed in the appellees--and assigns to the widow, for her dower, the entire tract of
land, except the mineral spring, with twenty-five acres, and the
right to work the-oal mines, and charges them with an annuity of
two hundred dollars per annurh to'the widow. The rights of the
appellees, in respect to this property, are manifestly less than if the
agreement had not been entered into. Could Reuben Burton's interest in the coal mines and spring, with the twenty-five acres, have
been taken under an elegit, after the execution of the said agree-

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

467

(Burton v Smith et al.]

ment? It is respectfully submitted that it could not. By the inqu&Vio4
under the elegit the property is placed in the hands -of the creditor,
who takes all the profits of it, paying therefor a fair annual rent, to.
be applied as a credit against his claim; and of the portion thus
placed in his hands no one has a right to share the profits with him.
If this may be done in favour of the creditor of one child, it may be
done for' he creditors of each; and if two elegits issue at the samg
time Against the same: defendant, they take not a moiety but the
whole : and thus the widow who has renounced her claim to dower
in the other lands of her husband, and thereby suffered them to pass
away from, her, is to be again ousted and deprived of the annuity,
in consideration of which, in great-part, she has made her relinquishment under an agreement with the heirs, which is obligatory upon
them, and as effectual to charge the property with the rights of the
doweress as any which could have been resorted to. It is not necessary to the validity of an assignment of dower that it should be
registered: i. e. recorded as a conveyance. If it is, howe~rer, and
this agreement is to be affected by the failure to register, (although as
to one of the parties it was fully proved, being acknowledged, and
should have been recorded,) then it cannot diminish the rights of 'the
widow, and the argument upon the hypothesis that no assignment
has been made, applies.
If land is subject to-a trust for the use of a grantor and another,
e. g. to raise an annuity, and a judgment is rendered against the
grantor, the land cannot be taken by elegit. Doe on demise of Iul.
vs. Green Hill, 4 Barnwell and Alderson, 684. In the present case
the land was subject to a trust, and one of the uses charged upon it
was to raise an annuity.* The agreement here being a case of dower,
was as valid to charge it as any form of conveyance, and so to protect it; the reason is the same in each-the right of the annuitant.
What, then, it may be asked, were the rights of the appellees in
reference ,to this property, Vhen they obtained .their judgment?,
They were two-fold-either to take Reuben Burton under a ca. sa.,
and thus acquire his right6 whatever they were in the subject, and
by express provision of the execution law, the right to sell them; or
upon the return of the fi. fa., to file a bill for an account of the rents
and profits of the coal mines, and for a receiver, and a decree for the
satisfaction of the judgment out of it. In the lifetime of Reuben
Burton they could have done no more. An account of rents and
profits *cannot be had in the lifetime *of the debtor, even after'removing a frauduleit conveyance, if an elegit can be levied; and the'
power of a Court of equity to sell the lands in such a case is clearly
repudiated by Lord Hardwicke in the case of Higgins et al. vs. The
York Buildings Company, .2
Atkyns, 107. The proceeding to judgment at law, and the 1lst ndens" to enforce it in equity, would
have given it, if not a li-n exactly, a preferable claim; and a purchaser even for valuable onideration, would have been bound as a
purchaser with notice. If a ca. sa. had been executed after the conveyance, the I en of the judgment would have been lost.

408

SUPE19ME COURT.
[Burton v. Smith ft al.]

In the absence of a lis pendens,"' and when, if this view be correct, thwappellees had not the: powver to extend by an elegit, and
had therefore no lien-viz, on the 12th day of August, in the year
1827, Reuben Burton conveyed the property to trustees for the
benefit of' his creditors. In the month of December, in the year
1829, more than two years after the- renditiom of the judgments,
during the whole of which time no attempt was made to enforce the
judgment as against the coal lands by the appelleeswho are among
the careditors enumerated as the persons for whose benefit the deed
of trust is made-a, sale of the subject is made under the deed of
trust by public auction, and the appellant became the purchaser.
No step had been taken, nor any act done by the appellees indicating their dissent from the deed of trust, nor was any such step
taken until the month of September, in the year '1834, more than
seven years after the judgment-was rendered. In the answer all
knowledge of the judgment of the plaintiff, as affecting the coal property at least, is denied; the impression it seems being that an elegit
had been levied upon other lands, and it is thought the evidence
sustains the answer.
Certainly the answer is not overthrown by the requisite degree
of proof--there being only one witness to oppose it; and that witness is opposed in his present recollections by his own written statement made at the time of the sale
The appellant stands then in' L,, position of a purchaser for a
valuable consideration, of property uipon which the appellees had
acquired no lien, and to which, with equal equity, the appellant
holds the legal title. In such a oase, the purchaser is entitled to the
protection of a Court of equity: but if he is not, he is certainly not
the proper object for the vindictive exercise of its power, and the
Court of equity will leave the, adversary. creditor to his legal
rights. Sugden on Vendors, sec. 5, 338--344, and the opinion of
Judge Green in Coutts vs. Walker, 2 Leigh's Reports, 268. The
space allowed in this form of argument will not permit a comment on the reason of this rule, if it were necessary. Its justice
is apparent: the fair purchaser for a valuable consideration has,
upon every principle, at least as much equity as the sleeping
judgment creditor-one who sleeps for seven years. And why
should a Court of equity seek to turn the scale against 'himequity, which alwatys follows and only aids the law? In such a
case the proper language of equity is: "I cannot aid you against
one who is equally entitled to my sympathy: if you have any legal
advantage over him, asgert it: I cannot, and would not if I could,
pravenyou; but I can do no more." Here 'the case is peculiarly
stro.g for the application of the rule. The judgment £reditor has,
to sy the least, been guilty of the most culpable laches. He has
laia'hy for. seven years-during which time he took no step against
the cieed, or the property in question-the property of his debtor;'
nnveyed to secure- the payment of his among other'debts by a conveyance which gave a priority over him, is sold; and the money

JANUARY TERU, 1,839.

46

[Burton vs. Smith et A.)

arising from the Sale applied according to the 4provisions of the deed
-more thani-wo years having elapsed between the rendition of the
judgment, and the sale under'tlhe deed. Here was time most ample
for any purpose, and if any step had been taken b'y the creditor, the
priorities of the parties would have been' settled and the purchase
money paid over accordingly. Passing by all this-ater the trustee
has misapplied the purchase money, as the judgment treditor contends, he comes into a Court of equity to ask as against the purchaser, that which he cannot obtain at law. No principle is conceived upon which the plaim preferred can be sustained.
II. If the judgment did confer a lien, then the appellees, in the
case as it now appears to the Court, i. e. unless it appeared that the
profits would not in a reasonable time pay the debt, had no claim
whatever to the aid of a Court of equityi that equity follows the lav'
and only aids it, is a principle too familiar and well known to need
authority; and has been expressly affirmed in respect to this very
question of a 'lien of a judgment by Lord Hardwicke, in a case
already referred to, 2 Atkyns, 107; and in other cases to which there
may be occasion to refer. The power of a Court of equity over
the lands of a debtor by judgment is the consequence of the right
acquired by the creditor to redeem prior incuinbrances. This is the
source and fountaiii of the power; and if the prior mortgages or incumbrances will not permit him to redeem, or if he is not. able to
redeem without a sale of the lands; he may apply to a Court of
equity- to compel a redemption; and therefore a sale of the property,
Sugden, 340.
By degrees, in the absence of any law or legal principle to sustain
them,'the -Courts have extended their power; and commencing with
the principle of aiding and fQllowing the law, they have arrived at
the conclusion, that they may do that which the law could-not do,
and sell the land. But this has been, not in a case like thatbefore the
Court, but in cases as it will be presently shown, founded-upon obligations which bound-the heir. But to r6cur: did the judgment, in the
case before the Court, give a lien upon the lands ?-If it did, then it is
respectfully submitted,-that the appellees, in the case they have made,
had no claim to the aid of a Court of equity; because there was
nothing to impede their progress, and remedy at law. In the case
before cited, 2 Atkyns, 107, where the debtor was living," Lord
Hardwicke decided, that the Court of Chancery had the power to
remove a fraudulent conveyance; it being a principle o' equity jurisdiction that where fraud in fact is charged, a Court 'of equity
therefore has jurisdiction, because from its more comprehensive
power it can - more fully try the fraud, although a Courtof law is
competent to try it. But having done that, its power ceases.ndthe
parties must be left to their remedy- at law upon the elegitr; arid .im
the case of Wilders vs. Chambliss, administratrix, And hois )o
Munford, 432, the Court of appeals of Virginia affirmed a'decree of
Chancellor Taylor, dismissing the bill of the judgment creditor tpon
the giound that the elegit was the remedy; it appearing in that case
VoL. XIII.-'2 R

SUPREME COURT.
[Burton vs. Smith et a.]

that the profits of the land ,vould in a reasonable time discharge the
debt. Here is a decision upon the point when the debtor was alive,
and another when the debtor was dead, concurring in both cases;
the claim resting upon an obligation which bound the heirs. It will
be shown presently that the latest Virginia decisions concur with that
last cited; at least in this, that the land should not be sold when the
rents and profits will in a reasonable time discharge the debt.
Looking to the reason of the thing, it may well be asked upon
what ground it is that a Court of equity should deny itself the power
to sell the land when the debtor lives; and yet as soon as he dies and
his children have become more helpless, and therefore entitled to the
care of the Court; it shall assume the power to sell the lands to
satisfy the very same debt. There is no reason for it, unless in a
case in which the obligation binds the heir; and then, as the heir is
chargeable to the whole extent of assets descended, the Court of
equity may, without much stretching its power, order the sale. It -is
believed that the power has resulted from confounding the power to
redeem prior incumbrances, and the prabtice in marshalling assets
and securities, whereby an entirely new power has been made; not
justified by the first head, as-the authorities cited show, and not justified by the latter, as will be seen by consulting any wo 'k upon the

subject, as the latest and most luminous of which, Story's Equity, titles
Marshalling Assets, and Marshalling Securities,'is referred to. The
practice of selling when the obligation binds the heirs, if it be esta
blished, cannot furnish authority for selling in a case likfe that before
the Court, because the'judgment does not bind the heir. Stileman
vs. Ashdown, 2 Atkyns, 477. Nor can any authority be derived
from the other heads; because in those cases there must be two securities, and two funds. Here there was but one fund and one
security, and nothing therefore to marshall, i. e. to array and arrange,
so as to promote justice and equity.
I It is thpught, however, that the Court will find in most, if not all the
cases in which decrees for sales have been made, that the case came
into Court under the power to redeem, as in Stileman vs. Ashdown,
or to marshall, or upon claims binding the heirs in some form. In
this case not one of these qualities exists. There is nothing to
redeem ; if there is, the plaintiff does not ask that privilege: there is
no fraud, alleged; there is nothing to marshall; and the claim was
originally on a simpld contract, and therefore did not bind the heirs;
and the judgment does not bind the heirs. The case then presents
,these peculiarities. One man has a simhple contract claim against
another: he sues him, and obtains judgment. If he pleases he may
extend his lands, but he cannot sell them: he'extends them, and
the debtor dies, and by that event a power is conferred to sell the
Jand, although the reason against selling may be and generally is
stronger after the-death of the ancestor than before. To the heirit
mayr be a ma.ftter-1 great i.portance to be enabled to. pay-The -debt
offy the gatuil process, or at least b5 keep it out of the market,
where it mYh
le 'sacrificed af a sheriff's sale until fi can acquire

JANUARY TtRM, 1839.

471

[Burton vs. Smith et al

the means to prevent the sacrifice. How is it that the death of the
father shall confer the power to do 'that which could not be done
while the father lived? Why should, it be so? IIf it be said that
here the elegit was not actually' levied in-the lifetime of the debtor;
that only weakens, if it affects at all the case. 'Then the case' stands
thus,: the land descend, to the heir, and comes into"his possession;
the creditor pursues with a claim which does not bind the heir, and
which if carried to its utmost extreme, could only take possession
for a limited timiw of a moiety of the, land ; the heir is ready to
yield the land to the whole extent to -which it was liable in the lifetime of the ancestor, and yet he isto be pold this shall not be: he
must pay immediately the debt for which he is not bound, and for
the satisfaction of which not even- the other moiety of the land could
be touched; for which in the lifetime of his ancestor no foot of thd
land could have been sold, or the entire rnoiety must be sold.
Whence the right thus, to abridge the right of the heir ? L2et it be
supposed that the profits of the land would in three years pay off the
debt, and the property is of that description which at a forcedt sale
is almost invariably sacrificed, and such is emphatically coal property; whence is derived the power to doom him to this saniice, and put his property into the possession of his creditor, perhaps
at half its' value ? Where is the .justice and equity of the proceeding ?' Many other illustrations might be given, but the limits of a
Written argument' forbid it.
Thus far the question as affecting the heir has been discussed-, but
the case is really against a fair purchaser, who is liable only, and
can be proceeded against as terre tenant. Is there a ease in which
the power of the creditor has been enlarged as against him? Upon
what ground is it that he shall be doomed to a sacrifice of thai property for which he has fairly paid;" and which, in the hands of the
man from whom he purchased it, would not have been liable to
such sacrifice? Is it not enough, in .such a.case, that tht creditormay pay himself by the use of the property ? With him' there is
no privity, no liability, not strictly legal; the purchase of the land
may have deprived him of the means to redeem; and it may be
that the land will soon pay the debt. Could his land have been
sold in the lifetime of the vendor? Clearly not, as it could not be,
sold in the hands of the vendee. How. can the subsequent death of
the vendor go operate upon the vendee, as to make that property
liable to 6ale after. the death, which was not' liable before ? There
can be no pretext of redeeming, nor of marshalling either assets or
securities; for the land, at the death of the vendor was

vio Dart

of

his estate. No reason is seen, and no authority i# 3mnown. for ii, in
a case like the present,.
111. 'If the appellees had a lght to come int0" a tourt of equity,
it was begjuse of a valid lien (which 'is denied,) that could not be
enforced at law; and,in that case, they were entitled to an accfount
on y of the rents and profits accruing, and the appliiation of them
to the payment of the debt.

472

SUPREME. COURT
[Burton vs. Smith efal.]

In Coutts vs. Walker;,2 Leigh's Reports, 268, land was settled to
the use of the grantor and his wife while they lived-to pay the
wife'an annuity'if she survived; and, at her death, to be divided
among the-children of thie granftor. The wife survived; and during
ner life judgments weve'rendered against one of the sons. The
his bill to subject the son's interest; and the
judgment creditor ffile
Court of Chancery decreed a sale of it, subject to the rights of the
widow, as in this case. The Court of appeals reversed the decree,
and directed an account of profits: deciding that the plaintiff was
not entitled to a sale, but must be paid out of the profits.
In tle case before the Court, the agreement with Mrs. Burton
places the property, as to the debtor, just where the settlement in
Coutt's case did: subject to the annuity, he was entitled to his
share of the profits and the reversion in fee. The case seems to be
in point directly. In a later case, Tennant's heirs vs. Patton, 6
Leigh, -196, the same Court reversed a decree for sale; and decided,
thaX where the rents and profits would in a reasonable time pay
the debt, it must be paid frotis them. And in tlie case of Mann vs.
Flynn, recently decided, (the opinion, pronounced by Judge Stanard,)
the same Court affirm the case in 6 Leigb. The manuscript opinion
is now oflired to the Court, by the favour of Mr. Leigh.
The case of the United States v. Morrison et al., in this Court,
has been relied upon. That case was ruled chiefly upon authority
of Colemanvs. Cocke et al., 6 Randolph. Now, it so happens that
in Coleman vs. Cocke, the question was not raised as appears by the
case; and Judge Green, moreov er, expressly so- declares in Blow
vs. Maynard, 2 Leigh, 29.
IV. It is insisted that the appellees, having made no objection to
the deed of trust althbugh two years elapsed after it was made, and
before itwas acted upon; and taken no step to prevent the sale, are
to be presumed to have acquiesced in it: 'and by their laches, have
lost the right to impeach the sale; especially as nearly five years
more-elapsed after the sale before any move was made. The trustee is the agent of the grantor and cestui que trust; and if any wrong
has been done, it has been by their agent; and to him the appellees
should look.
V. An account of the administration of Reuben Burton's estate
should have been ordered, whereby the appellant might have shown
:apersonal fund adequate to the payment of the debt.
VI. An account of the rents and profits of the coal property should
lnave been ordered; and the surplfs, after paying the annuity, applied to the payment of this debt, if it was to be paid from the land
in any form.
VII. Th widow and heirs of Daniel Burton should have been
parties to this suit; the widow at least.
VlIL The judgment was dead and inoperative when the decree
was 'rendered.; and no deeree should have been rendered upon it
until it was revived, if it could be. If it could not be, then no deore could be founded on it.

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

473

(Burton vs. Smith et al.]

For the foregoing reasons, it is asked that the decree of the Circuit
Court may be reversed, and the bill dismissed ; or, if that may
not be, that it be reversed and modified according to the views,
herein submitted.
In reply to -the argument for the appellees, the counsel for tho
appellants said; the cases relied upon are cases binding the heirs;
and the question was, what constituted assets under the plea of
"Reins per descent." In such cases, the heir who inherits a valuable reversion cannot make the plea; the reversion is ,asets in hisi
hands. This is emphatically the case in Tindales vs. Ware, 4 Eng.
Condensed Chancery Report. But, it is repeated, that when the
right of the creditor depends upon the power of the elegit, a dry
.reversion is not liable, because it cannot be extended. It is believed,
with due submission, that no such case can be found. How can
you extend, at a yearly rent, that which, by the terms of the proposition has no yearly value? What would be the condition of the
creditor, whose debt was annually wasting away by the - use of a
thing which was not susceptible of use? Who was accountinmg
annually for the profit of that which could not yield profit?
Mr. Robinson for the appellees.
In the Court below, the statute of Virginia was relied on which
declares that no action of debt shall be brought against any executor,
or administrator, upon a judgment obtained against his testator, or
intestate, nor shall any scire facias be-issued agairst any executor,
or administrator, to revive such judgment after the expiration of
five years from the qualification of his executor, or administrator.
1 R. C. p. 492, § 17. A single answer to this objection will suffice.
The qualification of Reuben Burton's administrator, was on the 9th
of December, 1829. This puit was brought the 15th of September, 1834. It was, therefore, brought before the expiration of five
years from the qualification; and the statute does not apply. 'This
beiug the case, it is unnecessary to urge upon the Court the considerations which forbid such a defence in equity by a purchaser under
a deed of trust, which mentions the judgment, and acknowledges the
debt to be due.
The judgment remaining in full force, the question then is, how
far it operates as a lien upon the real estate of the judgment debtor.
The writ of elegit given by the statute of Westm. 2, has always.
been in use in Virginia. Every person recovering any debt,
damages, or costs, may sue out this writ to charge a moiety of all.
the lands and tenements whereof the debtor was seised at the day
of obtaining the judgment, or at any time afterwards. 1 R. C. 52&
Some years before the judgment, Daniel -Burton the father of
Reuben Burton died intestate, leaving Sarah Burton, his widow,
and the following children as hisheirs, to wit: Thomas, a child by
the said Sarah; and Susan, Mary, Reuben, Rebecca, and William,
2i 2

60

414

SUPREME COURT.
[Burton vs. Smith t al.]

by a former marriage. Rebecca afterwards died intestate,,and unmarried, leaving her brothers and sisters as her heirs. As heirs of
Daniel Burton, his two sons, Reuben and William, were each -entitled to a sixth part of his real estate; and as heirs of Rebecca, they
were each -entitled to two-ninths of her ieal estate. Reuben Burton
acquired, by purchase the' whole interest of Willhm, as heir of
Daniel Burton, and also as heir- of Rebecca; and in this .way, his
share of the real estate of Daniel Burton (taking into account the
part of William and the part of Rebecca) was tWo-sixths and fourninths of another sixthbeing rather more than two-fifths.
By the terms of the agreement relied on in the defence, the heirs of
Daniel Burton were to have during the widow's life the right ofoccupying, using, and working the coal pits,and also the right and power
of sinking shafts and searching for coals on any part of the tract of
land attached thereto, except the yard, houses, and gardens; and also
the right and privilege of cutting and taking on any part of the tract,
all necessary timber and wood for the use and management of the
coal pits, opened, or tojbe opened, paying to the widow,during her life,
a yearly sum of $200 for her dower interest. It has been objected
that Reuben Burton's interest in this part of the subject could not
be charged; because the subject was not exclusively his. Thisobjection can Present no difficulty. Th6 judgment is -clearly a lien upon
a moiety of all the lands or tenements of which the debtor is seised.
The estate in lands or tenements of a joint tenant, or tenant in common, is charged by judgment against such joint tenant, or tenant in
common, as much as any other interest in real estate. It has long
been so settled.. In Viner's Abr. tit. Execution, let. N. pl. 25, vol.
x. p. 549, it is laid down, that "if there are two joint tenants, and
one makes a statute, and. afterwards joins with his companion in a
feoffment of the land, the moiety of the land may be extended upon
this sgatute." As it may be extended upon a statute, it may likewLe be extended upon a judgment. See Gilbert on Executions,
I,The
42. question
applicable to the tract generally, with the exception
of the interest just mentioned,. s, whether a judgment -against a
debtor who has a reversion in fee'expectant, upon an estate for life,
creates a lien upon such reversion. It was upon this part of the
case that the other side relied principally in the Court below.
We were told that a rent seck was not extendible; and from this
it was attempted to deduce the conclusion, that a reversion after an
estate for life (a dry reversion as it was called) could not be extended.
The case in which it was decided that a rent seek could not be
extended, was that of Walsal vs. Heath, Cro. Eliz. 656. The action
was replevin. The avowry was, that J. S. seised of lands for the
life of Sibyl his wire in right of his wife, the reversion in fee to the
baron; he and his feme made a lease for years, reserving R4 rent
p.er annum. The baron being indebted by obligation niade the

JANUARY TERM, 1889.

475

(Burton vs. Smith et al.]

said Sibyl his wife, executrix. The debtor brings debt against her,
by the name of Isabel, and recovered; and upon a Writ of fieri facias
a devastavit was returned, and thereupon an elegit awarded, and
the sheriff returned that Isabel had 44 rent issuing out of that land,
upon a demise made by her and her husband, and delivers the moiety
of that rent, and thereupon he avows for the same, and it was thereupon demurred and adjudged ill for three causes. First, because a
lease for years by baron and feme, without deed, is void against the
feme. Secondly, the recovery against Isabel is void against Sibyl;
and the sheriff cannot extend her land. Thirdly, the sheriff delifiering the rent without land, so as there is not any reversion,'it is but
a rent seck; and a bare rent cannot be delivered, ut liberum tene.
mentum.
This case does not at all go to show that a reversion in fee is )lot
charged'by a judgment.
It would be very remarkable if the judgment should create no
lien upon a reversion, when such reversion is liable to a mere bond
creditor of the ancestor. For it has long, been adjudged that upoi.
an obligation of the ancestor, binding himself and his heirs, the heir
may be charged in respect to any estate of freehold which has descended upon him. A reversion in fee, expectant on a term of
years, is regarded as assets in the hands of the heir; although the
term be to continue five hundred years; as was the case in Smith
vs. Angell, 2 Ld. Raym. 733, A reversion in fee expectant on an
estate for life, is also assets; notwithstanding the life estate be still
continuing. Rooke vs. Clealand, I Lutw. 303. 1 Ld. Raym. 53.
Vin. Abr. tit. Execution, M. pl. 7. 15. If the party seised of the
reversion, devise it for any other purpose than the payment of debts,
the devise is void as to specialty creditors; and the creditor may
maintain an action on the specialty against the devisees as well as
the heirs, and charge them in respect to the reversion. Stat. of
W. & M. enacted in Virginia in 1789; 1 R. C.,391, 392.

And if

any heir or devisee, so liable, shall before action brought alien the
estate descended to him, he will be liable for the value of the land
so aliened. Ibid.
. The inquiry then presents itself, whether a creditor who has obtained a judgment against a debtor in his life time, is worse off, in
respect to this malter, than a creditor by specialty merely.
In the case of Coke vs. Barnsley, Brownl. P84, w'here the question was, whether land held in ancient demesne was extendible, the'
judges held thatit was: saying, "for otherwise, if it should not be
extendible, there would be a failure of justice, which the law doth
not allow of." There would be an equal failure of justice, if a reversion in fee were not liable to a judgmont creditor. It is well
settled that if a man lease for a year, rend6ring rent, the reversion
may be extended upon an elegit during the'lease, and the tenant by
elegit shall have a moiety of the rent. Sir Thomas Campbell's case,
I Rolle's Abr. 894, pl. 5. It is also settled, that if there be tenant

476

SUPREME COURT.
(Burton V8.Smith et al]

for life, the reversion in fee, and he in reversion 'acknowledges a
statute, and then grants the reversion, and then tenant for life' dies,
this land shall be extended upon the statute. 2 Rolle's Abr. part 2,
p. 473, let. Q. This proves that a statute creates a lien upon a reversion expectant upon an estate for life, though the life estate be
still continuing.
The lien upon a reversion created by a judgment, is eqtual to that
of a statute. It was so decided by Lord Hardwicke, in Gifford vs.
Barber, 4 Vin. Abr. tit. Charge, letter A, pl. 17, p. 451. There the
-judgment debtor had a reversion'after an estate tail. The estate
tail having terminated, and the reversion coming into possession of
the heir of the judgment debtor, the question was, whether the j udgment created a lien upon it. The chancellor held that a person
having an estate of, inheritance subject to intermediate estates,
might grant, charge, or encumber the reversion as he should see
fit; and might encuniber itby judgment as well as in any other
manner.
Thewhole law upon the subject is laid down with great clearness in Gilbert on Executions, 38, 39. He says,"' Th6 judgment
binds not only the lands aid tenements of which the defendant
is actually seised, but also the reversions on leases for lives as well
as for years. For though the words of the elegit are, ' a moiety of
all the lands and tenements of which the said A. was seized,' &c.,
yet the intent of the writ extends to whatever lands and tenemeTits
were actually vested in the. defendant; because the statute is a
moiety of the lands, which .extends to reversions, which are comprised under the name of lands, since they are lands returning to
the defendant when the particular estate ceases;-,and, therefore,
though this was formerly disputed, the latter resolutions have settled
the law to be as we have already mentioned,."
The law is laid down in the same way by Sir Henry Gwillim, in
a volume, which he prepared before hig death, of the last edition of
Bacon's Abridgment. See tit. Execution, let. C.'vol. iii. p. 381, of
Lond. ed. of 1832. And in the late case of'Harris vs. Pugh, 4 Bing.
335, 13 Eng. Com. Law Rep. 459, it is expressly_ stated by the
Court, that if the estate of the debtor in the reversion had been a
legal, instead of an equitable estate, the judgment would have bound
it, and overreached the subsequent conveyance.
The judgment being a-lien uon the property, that lien, clearly
operates against the alienees of the debtor United States, vs. Morrisen, &c. 4 Peters, 124. Watts vs. Kinney, &c. 3 Leigh, 272,.
If there were any difficulty in taking the reversion'of the debtor
in execution at law, it would, upon the general principles ofa Court
against
of equity, still be bound in equity: and the lien enforced
alienees. Coutts vs. Walker, Leigh, 268.
theIndebtor's
this case, the reason for enforcing the lien against the alienee
is stronger than usual; for here, the property subject to the lien was
purchased with full knowledge. of the judgment,.and knowledge asa
that the'debt was still ,due

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

477

[flirton vs. Smith et al.]

The trustees in the deed of trust could, certainly, not object to the
Court's decreeing a sale of the property subject to the lien. For
-they, by the terms of the deed of trust were to sell at all' events,
See Mutual Ass. Society~vs. Stanard, &c. 4 Munf. 538. Neither
can any one claiming under the trust make that objection. It might
indebd'have been seriously contended, upon the authority of the case
just cited, that the decree should have been for the sale of the whole
property, instead of a moiety'merely. But such a decree would no
doubt have been objected to on the other side, and the objection has
been carefully avoided. The decree in this case merely directs a
sale of the land, so far as the creditor has a lien upon it.
That equity will, at the suit of the creditor, after the death of the
judgment debtor, accelerate the payment by directing a sale of the
moiety; and not qoinpel the judgment creditor to wait till he has
been paid out of the rents and profits, was' settled in Stiloman vs.
Ashdown, 2 Atk. 608, Amb. 13, and has been acted on in a great
number of cases. Galton vs, Hancock, 2 Atk. 433. O'Gorman vs.
Comyn, 2 Sch. & Lef. 137. O'Fallon vs. Dillon, ibid. 13. Countess
of Warwick vs. Edwards, 1 Dick. 51. In Virginia the principle has
been recognised in Blow vs. Maynard, 2 Leigh, 57. 66.
No portion of a -debtor's real estate is exonerated from his
creditors, or exempted from being sold, because it yields -nothing
annually.
In Robinson, &c. vs. Tong, 2 Str. 879. 3 P. Wins. 401, where
the question related to an advowson which had descended upon
the heir, to wit, a right of presentation to a church; and the objection was taken that it yielded nothing; it was answered that it might
be madb available by sale. Lord Hardwicke decided the same way
in Westfaling vs. Westfaling. 3.Atk. 460. Not only was the advowson decided to 'be real assets, and directed to. be sold; but it was
decreed that the money should be paid to judgment creditors according, to the priority of their judgments, and then equally to bond
creditors. Tong, &c. vs, Robinson, 1 Brown's Par. Cas. p. 114 of
Tomlin's edition.
In the case of a reversion, where it is impracticable to obtain a
discharge of the debt by any application of rents and profits; and
where the only way of making the reversion available in any reasonable time is by sale; there is every reason for decreeing a sale.
This subject has been fully considered, and the propriety of a sale
decided in Tyndale vs. Warre, Jacob's Reports, 212. 4 Cond. Eng.
Ch. Rep. 10o.
Mr. Justice BARBOUR delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court, for the fifth
circuit, and eastern district of Virginia.
The case was this:
In the month of June, 1827, smith and Kennedy obtained a judgment in the Circuit Court against Reuben Burton, for $1348 75,
with interest from the 14th October, 1823, and costs. On this judg-

478

SUPREME COURT.

IBurton vs. Smith et al.)
ment, an elegit was issued on the 31st of December, 1827. On the
12th of August, in the same year, Reuben Bur:ton, by deed conveyed his-real estate to certain trustees, in. trust, to sell the same for
the benefit of his creditors; amongst many other debts enumerated
in the deed, the judgment already mentioned, recovered by Smith
and Kennedy, was included.
These last mentioned creditors, the appellees, never assented to,
or accepted any thing- under the trust deed. -Burton having died,
the only trustee who accepted the trust, on the 21st of. December,
1829, sold, under the deed, all the estate, 'both real and personal
conveyed by it; and at that sale" Sarah Burton by her agent, purchased,,at the price of $oqo, the interest of Reuben Burton, that
is, two-fifth parts in a certain 'tract of' land called Springfield, supposed to contain about.five hundred acres, and also his inteirest in
certain coal pits on the same tract. The character of Reuben Burton's interest in the Springfield tract of land, as appears. from the
record, was that of a reversion in fee, after an estate for life. And
the character of his interest in the coal pits, as appears from an
agreement in the record, was this:'-The heirs of Daniel Burton, of
whom Reuben was one, were to have, during- the" widows life, the
right of occupying, using, and, working the coal pits, and the right
and Power of.sinking shafts, and searching for coal onf any part
of the land, except the yard, &c.; paying to the widow, during her
life, the yearly sum of $200, for her dower interest. The same
agreement will show his interest in a mineral spring, also -included
in the decree.
After the death of Reuben Burton, the appellees, finding that
there was no personal estate to satisfy their debt, in September,
1834, filed their bill to enforce the lien created by their judgment;
making, amongst others, Sarah Burton a defendant, as purchaser of
the interest of Reuben Burton, before described, in the Springfield
tract of land, and coal pits.
She answered, saying that the property conveyed to her was not
purchased for her own benefit, but for the benefit of her son, Thomas 0. Burton, the appellant. She insisted, in her answer, that the
appellees had no right to enforce their judgment, as more than five
years had elapsed since the death of Reuben Burton; she denied
that the judgment created any lien on the property purchased by
her which was valid against her; she insisted that the appellees
wete entitted to no relief in equity; and that at all events, a sale
should not-Y' decreed.
An amended bill was thereupon filed, making Thomas 0. Burton
a defendant. He filed an answer, insisting upon the grounds taken
by Sarah Burton.
The cause coming on to be heard, the Court held the reversionary
interest of Reuben Burton in the Springfield tract of land, and his
interest in the right-of occupying and working the coal pits thereon,
and alsohi§ 4iterest in the mineral spring thereon, with the twentyfiveacreb of land adjoining thereto, liable to the appellees' judgment ;

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

479

[Button v8. Smith et al.]

and decreed a moiety of Reuben Burton's interest to be sold. Fron
that decree this appeal is taken.
Upon this state of facts, two questions! arise:. 1st. Whether
the
judgment created a lien on the reversionary interest of Reuben
Burton in the land in question? And, 2d. Whether it was competent to the Court to decree a sale of his interest, with a view to accelerate the payment of the debt; or whethe'r the appellees should
have been left to such remedy as they had at law?
As to the first point. In relation to lAnd1 of which the debtor has
the actual seisin; there is no doubt but that the judgment creates a
lien. Upon this subject, this Court said, in the case of the United
States vs. Morrison and others, 4 Peters, 124, there is no statute in
Virginia which expressly makes a judgment, a lien upon the lands
of the debtor. As in England, the lien is the consequence of a right
to take out an elegit. During the existence of this right, the lien is
universally acknowledged. That right unquestionably existed in
this case; because an elegit did actually issue within the year after
the judgment was rendered. 'There would then be no sort of difficulty upon the question of a lien, if the debtor had had actual
seisin of the land; but the difficulty is suggested that his interest
was reversionary only. Let us inquire whether this interposes any
obstacle. All the authorities, ancient and moden, agree in this proposition that a reversion after an estate for life is assets; or as some
of the books express it, quasi assets, in tht hands of, the heir, in regard to the bond of his ancestor, binding heirs; and that in such
case, the pla'"iff may take judgment of it, quando acciderit. Dyer,
373. Carthew, 129. 1 Lord Ray. 53. Chitty on. Descenits, 336.
In Dyer, ubi supra, the form of the judgment in such case is given.
It is, "that he should recover the debt and damages of the aforesaid
reversion, to be levied when it shall fall in." And it is added, that
a special writ shall issue to extend the whole. The doctrine upOIo
this subject is laid down very clearly by the Master of the Rolls, in
the case of Tyndale vs. Warre, 3 Jacob. 217, 218. There are,'says
he, three cases of reversions; if it be a reversion dependant upon a
term of years, the law does not consider the term as any thing, and
judgment is given against the heirs, if he plead reins per descent.
But if the creditor take out an elegit, he is stopped by the term,
'which is a good defence for the lessee in ejectment, and so there is
a cesset executio during the term. - If it be a reversion after an
estate for life, the heir must plead specially, stating that he has no
assets except this, and setting forth what it is ; the creditor may
then take judgment quando acciderit. In the case of a reversion after
an estate tail, the authorities say, that the heir may plead, generally,
reins per descent, distinguishing this from the plea in the case of a
reversion after an estate for life. The plaintiff may then reply, that
there is this reversion descended to the defendant; and he may then
have a judgment quando acciderit, the same as in the case of a reversion after an estate for life

SUPREME COURT.
[Burton vs. Smith 6t al.]

Now, upon principle, it would seem to be clear, that whatever
estate descended to the heir, which was liable as assets to the bond
debt of the ancestor, must be bound by a judgment obtained against
the ancestor in his lifetime.
But this is not left to rest upon deductions frbm general principles,
or- analogy to the case of assets descended to the heir. Whatever
may be the doctrine as to reversions after estates tail, about which
there has been some doubt, as appears from the case before cited,
from Jacob's Reports; there is a current of authority going to prove
that a reversion after an estate for life, is bound by a judgment
against the ancestor from whom it immediately descends.
The statute of Virginia giying to a party the right, at his election,
to have an elegit, is almost a transcript of the statute of Westminster the second. The writ itself commands the officer to delrver to
the plaintiff a moiety of all the lands and tenements, whereof the
debtor, at the time of obtaining the judgment was seised, or at any
time afterwards.'
Lands and tenements, then, are the subject . on which the writ is
to operate.
Nowj in Comyn's Digest, title Grant, E. 2, it is said, that by.
grant of all lands and tenements, a reversion passes. In the
same book, title Estate, B. 12, it is said: If a man grant the land
itself the reversion passes. So in Moore's Reports, 36, a .reversion
is said to be a tenement. Thus it appears that a reversion falls
within each of the terms, lands, and tenements. But the party must
have been setsed at the time of obtaining the judgment, or afterwards.
Now let us see what is meant by the seisin spoken of in the statute. And-the authorities are clear that it is not confined to actual
corporeal. possession. In Gilbert on Executions, pages 38 and 39, it
is said, that the judgment-binds not only the lands and tenements
of which the defelidant- is actually seised, but also the reversioiis
on leases for lives, as well as for years; for although the words of
the elegit are, that without delay you cause to be delivered a moiety
of all the lands and tenements of which the aforesaid B. was seised;
&c., yet the intent of the writ extends to whatever lands and tenements were actually vested in the defendant: because the statute is,
a moiety of the land, which extends to reversions, which are comprised under the name lands, since they are lands returning to the
defendant when the particular estate ceases.
So in 2 Williams' Saun. 68, f it is said: Jtidgment binds not onlsr
lands of .which defendant is actually seised, but also reversions on
'leases for lives or years; and, therefore, a moiety of a reversion may
be extended, and plaintiff will have a moiety of the rent. So in

Chitty on Descents, 338, it is said, That if judgment be had in the
debtor's lifetime, it will bind the property,- though no execution be
taken oui till the property descends to others. Nay, in case of
a judgmeit, it is said to bind, even where it is against a person from

whom the estate does not immediately descend, as if it-were against

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

481

[Burton va. Smith et al.]
a remainderman or reversioner; whereas, the contrary would be the
case of a bond on which no judgment had been rendered in thedebtor's lifetime, who stood in the same relation.
. The author last cited, in page 54, quoting Watkins on Descents, 40,
41., speaking of the subject of seisin of reversions, remarks, that the
confusion seems to have been created by the different meanings
which have been attached to the word "seisin ;" by being used in a
general sense when it should properly have been confined in its acceptation; or by being confined when it should have been taken in
a general sense. And in pages 53, 54, he thus sums up the doctrine.
We must hero remember that the expressions or terms of a seisin in
law and a' seisin in deed, refer only to the present and actual'corporeal possession of the premises; and not to the fixture of an interest
which is to come into actual enjoyment in some future event: and
here the word "'seisin" is used in its strict sense; and though we
frequently use the term ,seisin" of a remainder or reversion expectant upon a freehold, yet this signifies no more than that the
property in them is fixed in the owner, and that such owner is
placed in the tenancy. The particular estates, and those expectant
upon them, form in law only one estate ; and the delivery of possession to the person taking first extends to all. All therefore may
be said to be seised, all being placed in the tenancy, and the pro.
perty being thus fixed in all. It is upon these principles that the
authorities lay down the doctrine, that a judgment binds a reversion
after an estate for life.
We are therefore satisfied that the judgment of the appellees bound
the reversionary interest in the land in question ; and as to the other
property embraced in the decree, there is no room for doubt or difficulty. And then the question is, whether the Court ought to have
decreed a sale, with a view to accelerate the payment of the debt;
or whether the appellees should 'have been left to such remedy as
they had at law ? Upon th6 subject of the power of a Court of
equity in this respect, the authorities are decisive. More than a century ago, in the case of 'Robinson vs. Tong, 3 Viner's Abr. Assets
A, p1. 28, p. 145, an advowso' was decreed to be sold, at the instance Of creditors, as assets descended; and the decree was affirmed
in the House of Lords. That is supposed to have been the case
not of judgment, but bond creditors. In Stileman vs. Ashdown, 2
Atk..607, Lord Hardwicke decreed a sale of a moiety of the land to
satisfy'a judgment creditor. He oonfiied the decree toa moiety,
because the judgment only bound a moiety at law. On that occa-1
sion he said, that whilst equity could not change the rights of the
parties, it might accelerate the payment by directing the sale of a
moiety, and not let the credito, wait until he was paid out of the
rents and profits. The principle was :asserted by Lord Redesdale in
2 Sch. and Lef. 138, and in the same book, 13; and such he stated
to be the settled doctrine in, Ireland. In the first of these cases he
said: "Although this-Court has been in'the habit of selling to pay
judgment, debts, where it was ascertained that they were legal
VOL. XIII.-2 S

482

SUPREME COURT.
(Burton w. Smith et at.]

liens- on,'the land, the foundation of that was the legal right. The
only equity the creditor had, was, to render his remedy more effectual by getting a sale, instead of levying his debt out of rents and
profits, which was the, only execution the common law gave.
These cases are cited and relied upon, and the doctrine of them
approved, in 2 Leigh, 30; and in page 58 of that volume, Judge
Green" says: ,This principle, so far as I am informed, has been
uniformly practised on in Virginia, in 'the cases of heirs bound by
the obligations of their ancestors. -And although I cannot see
clearly the foundation of this equity to sell, where thelaw only authorizes an extent, or a personal judgment, or decree against the
heir for the value of the assets descended, whether aliened by him
or not, (see the statute of fraudulent devises ;) yet I think we are
bound by the practibe founded on these precedents, so long acquiesced in." In 6. Leigh, 196, which was a suit in equity brought by
creditors to marshal assets, the same authorities were again cited
with approbation, and the same doctrine reasserted by the judges,
in their reasoning upon the case: In pages 219, 220,-of'this latter
case, Judge Carr went into a review of English cases, which he said
seemed to him to establish beyond question, the regular and long
established course there, of selling-the lands of deceased persons to
pay their debts, binding the land, or to marshal their assets: and he
added, that it struck him as a novelty when, in the course of the argument of the case, 'he heard a doubt suggested of the power of the
Court to decree a sale in such cases In the: case of Tyndale vs.
Warre, 3 Jacob, 21 , this subject was extensively considered by Sir
Thomas Plumer, Master of the Rolls; who held, in that case, a reversion expectant upon an estate for life, and even upon estates tail,
limited to unborn children, to be assets for the payment of specialty
debts; and accordingly he 'decreed it to be* sold for that purpose.
Thisjast has a peculiar analogy to, and bearing upon the case before
us; because it sustains in the fullest and most decisive manner both the
grounds on which the decree of the Circuit Court rests: that is, it proves
first, that a reversion after al.. estate for life, or even after estates tail
limited to unborn children,is assets, liable to the specialty debt, and,of
necessary-consequence, to the judgment of the ancestor from whom it
immediately descends; and, secondly, that a Court of equity will decree
such a reversion to be sold, in order to accelerate the payment of the
debt. The liability of a reversion after a life estate to be sold, was at
once conceded by the counsel for the heir:. their effoi twas to maintain
that the reversion in that case could not be sold, because it was after
an estate tail. It was strongly said by the Master of the Rolls in that
case, that the reversion was a part of the real estate .of the ancestor;
and according to all general principles, every part of the real estate
of the debtor, except copyhold, is considered as applicable to the
payment of his specialty debts. There is hmother part of the reasoning of the Master, of the Rolls, which has a most cogent application
to this. It having being urged-that a sale ought not to be decreed,
out of consideration to the heir, that'a higher price might be ob-

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

483

[,Burton vmSmith et al.]
tained; he said: "But I think that such considerations ought not to
weigh, for the question is, to whom does the property belong ? It
is not the habit of the Court to consider the interest of the heir, when
opposed to that of the creditors. They ought to have the fullest
remedy. And upon what principle can the Court refuse to give them
the benefit of a sale, because another person, whose interest is
secondary, and entirely subject to theirs, may be benefited by delay?" So far from its being proper for a Court to hesitate about
decreeing the sale of an interest bwcause it is reversionary, we think
that the characterof the interest affords a stronger reason. For in
regard to property in present actual possession, the elegit,.although
a tardy remedy in its operations, yet. is in some degree an effective
remedy; inasmuch as the creditor will by that means'annually receive something towards his debt: whereas in the case of a dry reversion, as the one in the present case is, if the outstanding life estate
should continue during half a century, the creditor might look on in
hopeless despondency, without the possibility of receiving one cent.
from that source, except through the interposition of a Court of
equity, in decreeing a sale. -Now if the acceleration of a tardy
remedy be cause enough to justify the helping hand of equity, a fortiori, it ought to be extended to him who during the life of the
tenant for life is without any remedy at all. As to the objection,
that the judgment did not bind the land in the hands of the appellant because he was a purchasei, we consider it wholly untenable,
We have already -said that the judgment created a lien: now it is
of the very nature and essence of a lien, that no matter into whose
hands the property goes, it passes cum onere; if this were not the
case it would cease to be a lien. If this proposition stood in need
of authority to support it, we(find it abundantly in the case of The
United States vs. Morrison and others, 4 Peters, 124. In that case
the judgment of the United States rendered in 1822, was held to
overreach several deeds of'trust executed in 1823; although the
United States having issued a fieri facias, whilst that execution was
in the marshal's hatids, the agent of the treasury at the instance of'
the defendants, instructed the marshal to forbear levying it on condition of the defendants' paying the costs; and accordingly the marshal did not make a levy, but made a return within the year 1822,.
that all furtner proceedings were suspended in pursuance of said
instructions; and that suspension was continued until the year 1825.
A very strong application of this'doctrine was made in the
case of the Mutual Assurance Society vs. Stanard et al., 4 Munf2
539. In that case a deed of trust, bearing date 28th April, 1808,
was held to be overreached by a judgment rendered on the 6th of)
May; the Court applying the legal fiction, that the judgment iWcontemplation of law related back to the commencement of the term,
which was before the execution of the deed.
A still stronger application of the doctrine Was made by the same
Court, in the case of Coutts vs. Walker, 2 Leigh, 268. In that case
the Court held, that a judgment creditor had a lien in equity upon

484

SUPREME COURT

[Burton M.Smith et a.]
the equitable estate of the debtor, in like manner as he had a lien in
law upon his legal estate; and a deed of trust having been executed

by the debtor conveying his equitable estate to a trustee, and that
too for the benefit of creditors between the commencement of the
term, and the day on which the judgment was obtained ; the same
relation of the j tdgments to the first day of theterm, as in the case
preyiously cited, was held to exist; and thus the trust deed was
overreached by the judgment.
It is argued that the judgment in this case was barred by the act
of limitations of Virginia. That act provides, that no action of debt
shall be brought against any executor or administrator upon a judgment obtained against his testator, or intestate, nor shall any scire
facias be issued against any executor; or administrator, to revive
such judgment, after the expiration of five years from the quaification of his executor, or administrator. Thie facts in the'record
furnish a decisive answer to this arument. It appears'from them,
that the administration on Reuben Burton's 'estate was granted on
the 9th lof December, 1829 ; and this suit was brought on the 15th
of September, i834. So that five years had not elapsed from the
time of the qualification of the administrator.
This view renders it uniiecessary to examine whether the appellees- would 'not have been' withint the saving of tho statute, as contended for by their counsel.
Fuithermore, it is objected that therg should have been an account
taken of the administration of Reuben Burton's personal estate.
Without stopping to inquire whether that would be necessary in
any case,,where the suit is brought merely to enforce a legal lien;
it is a sufficiefit answer to this objection to say-that there is undant evidence in the record, that there was no persoial estate:
nothing, therefore, could have been more un.necessary or unprofitable than to have ordered an acc6unt to be taken.
The last objection is, that an account
should have been ordered
property.
of the rents and profits of the Ioal
Here, too, the record furnishes a satisfactory answer. Assuming,
for the purpose of meeting this objection, that 'byanalogy to the
case of marshaling assets, a Court of equity would not decree a, sale
of real estate to satisfy a judgment where the rents and profits
would discharge it in a reasonable time, as was held by the. Court
in the case of Tennent's heirs vs. Patton, 2 Leigh, 196; yet the
facts of this case utterly repel the application of that principle to it.
In that case, it-Will be seen that the debts of the ancestor were said
by one of the judges to amount to $820, and the annual value of
the land was ascertained to be $400.
In that case, therefore, the debt would be saisfied by the rents
and profits in a short time. In tv-is case the facts are these. There
was an outstanding life estate in all the Springfield tract of tand,
except the coal pits and the mineral spring. Reuben Burton s iniex'est in the coal pits was two-fifths, in the privilege of working them
during the lifetime of the tenant- for life; she receiving annually two

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

48

[Burton m Smith et 9LI

hundred dollars for the whole. Reuben Burton's real interest, tterr,
is only twoifths of any surplus which might remain, after deducting two-fifths of the annual rent to be paid. But the parties themselves seem to have considered $200 per'annum as the full value
of the whole privilege- of working them. -If the agreement of the
parties were to be taken as the standard of the annual vbdue, his
interest would really be Worth nothing; -because he would have to.
pay precisely the same proportion of the rent wihicli he received of
the profits and it must be assumed, that they were worth more
than the parties fixed as the value, in, order to make any surplua at
all. But, at all events, there is .nothing in the case to justify the
belief that there would-be any surplus that would discharge the
judgment ina reasonable- time, or even in a long time: for, at the
date of the decree, the whole debt, including principal, interest, and
costs, amounted to about $2,500; and the principal being $1,349
75 .cents, there would be an annuallyaccruing interest of about $80,
besides the annual payment of two-fifths of the $200, for rent, which
would be $80 more. Thus it will appear that his interest of twofifths must produce $160 -annually, in order even to prevent the
debt from being increased. To allow $160 for his two-fifths would
require that the whole should be worth annually $400, which is
precisely double the sum at which the parties fixed the rent.
This then seems to us to be, emphatically, a case in which the
established principles of equity justify the sale of the property, with
a view to accelerate the payment of a debt due to a judgment
creditor.
In every respect in which we have viewed the case, we think
that the decree of-the-Circuit Court is correct; and it is therefore
affirmed, with costs.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the eastern district
of Virginia, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof,
it is adjudged and decreed by this Court that the'decree of the said
Circuit- Court in this cause be, and the same. is hereby, affirmed with
costs.
2 S-2

