498

SUPREME COURT.

PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, VS. JOHN JACKSON,
ON THE DEMISE OF MURRAY M'CONNEL, DEFENDANT IN ERROR.

DE LA FAYETTR WILCOX,

Ejectment for a tract of land in Cook county, Illinois, being a fractional section, embracing the military post called Fort'Dearborn, at the time of the institution of the suit; in
the possession of the defendant as the commanding officer of the United States. The
post was established in 1804, and was occupied -by the troops of the United States until
August 16th, 1812, when the troops were massacred, and the fort taken by the enemy.
It was reoccupied by the United States in 1816, and continued to be so held until May,
1823, aturing which time some factory houses, for the use of the Indian department, were
erected on it. It was evacuated by order of the war department in 1823, and was, by
order of the department, again occupied -by troops in 1828,as one of the military posts
of the United States; was again evacuated in 1831, the government having authorized
a person to take and keep possession of it. It was again occupied by troops of the
United States, in 1832, and continued so to be at the commencement of this suit, being
generally known at Chicago to be occupied'as a military post of the United States. The
buildings about the garrison were not sold in 1831, when it was evacuated; although a
great part of the movable property in and about it, was sold. In 1817, Beaubean
bought of an army contractor, for one thousand dollars, a house built on the land.
There was attached to the house an enclosure, occupied as a garden or field,' of which
Beaubean continued in possession until 1836. In 1823, the factory houses on the land
were sold by order of the Secetary of War, and were bought by Beaubean, for five hundred dollars. Of these he I 2 k possession, and continued to occupy them, and to cultivate the land, without interruption by the United States, until the commencement of this
suit. The United States, in May, 1834, built a lighthouse on' the land, and have kept
twenty acres enclosed and cultivated. The land was surveyed by the government of the
United States, in 1821 ; and in 1824, at the instance of the Indian agent at Chicago,
the Secretary of War -requested the commissioner of the general land offite to reserve this
land for the accommodation and protection of the property of the Indian agency; who,
in 1821, informed the Secretary of War that he had directed this section of land to be
reserved from sale, for military purposes. In May, 1831, Beaubean claimed this land, at
the land office in Palestine, for pre-emption. This claim was rejected, and, by the commissioner of the land office, he was, in February, 1832, informed that the land was reserved
for military purposes. This information was also given to others who applied on his behalf.' In 1834, he applied for this land to the office in Danville, and his application was
rejected. In 1835, Bdaubean applied for the land to the land office at Chicago, when his
claim to pre-emption was allowed; and he paid the purchase money, and procured the register's certificate. Beaubean sold and conveyed his interest to the plaintiff'in the eject-,
ment. Held, that Beaubean acquired no title to the land by. his entry ; and that the right
of Ihe United States to the land was not divested or affected by the entry at the land office
at-Chicago; or by any of the previous acts of Beaubean.
The decision of the Register and Receiver of;a land office, in the absence of fraud, would
be conclusive as to the facts that the applicant for the land was then in possession, and
o f his 'cultivating the.land during the preceding year; because these questions are dirictly subrhitted to those officers. Yet, if they undertake to grant pte-emptions to land,,
on which the law declares theyshall not be granted; then they ara acting upon a subject matter clearly not wiin their jurisdiction ; as much so as if a Court? Whose jurisdiction was
declared not to extend beyond a given sum, should attempt cognizance of a case beyond
that sum.
Appropriation of land by the government is nothing more or less than setting it apart. for
sone particular use. In the case before, the Court, there has been an appropriation of
the land, not only in fact, but' in law; for a military post; for an Indian agency; and for
the erection. of a lighthouse. "
By the act of Congress of 1830, all lands are exempted from pre-einption which are reserved fromn sale by order of the President of the-United States. The President speaks
and acts through the heads of the several departments, in relation to subjecta-which appertain to their respective duties.. Both military posts, and Indian affairs, including agencies, belong to the war department, A reservation of lands, made at the request of the.

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

499

[Wilcox vs. Jackson.]
Secretary of War, for purposes in his department, must be considered as rnade by the.
President of the United S:ates within the terms of the act of Congress.
Whensoever a tract of land shall 'have once been legally appropriated to iny purpose,
from that moment the land thus appropriated becomes severed from the mass of public
lands: and no subsequent law, or proclamation, or sale, would be construed to embrace it,
or to operate upon it: although no other reservation were made of it.
The right of pre-emption was a bounty extended to settlers and occupants of the public
domain. This bounty, it cannot be supposed, was designed to be extended to the sacrifice of public establishments, or of great public interests.
Nothing passes a perfect title to public lands, with the exception of a few-cases, but a patent. The exceptions are, where Congress grants lands, in words of present grant. The
general rule applies as well to pre-emptions as to other purchases of public lands.
The act of the legislature of Illinois, giving a right to the holder of a register's certificate
of the entry of public lands to recover possession of such lands in an action of ejectment, does not apply to cases where a paramount title to the lands is in the hands of the
defendant, or of those he represents. The exception in the law of Illinois, applies to.
cases in which the United States have not parted with the title 'to the land, by granting
a patent for it.
A state has a perfect right to legislate as she may please in regard to the remedies to be
prosecuted in her Courts; and to regulate the disposition of the property of her citizens,
by descent, devise, or alienation. But Congress are invested, by the Constitution, with
the power of disposing of the public land, and making needful rules and regulations respecting it.
Where a patenthas not been isgued for a part of the public lands, a state has no power to
declare any title, less than a patent, valid against a claim of the United- States to the
land; or against a title held under a patent granted by the United States.
Whenever the question in any Court, state or federal, is, whether the title to property which
had belonged to the United States has passed, that question must be resolved by the
laws'of the United States. But whenever the property hag passed, according to those
laws, then the property, like all other in the state, is subject to state legislation; so far as
that legislation is consistent with the admission that the title passed and vested according
to the laws of the United States.
Every tribunal acting judicially, whilst acting within the sphere of its jurisdiction, where
no appellate tribunal is created, its judgment is final; and even where there is such an
appellate power, their judgment is conclusive where it only comes.collaterally in question; so long as it is unreversed. But directly the reverse is true, in relation to the judgment of any Court, acting beyond the pale of its authority. This principle is concisely
and accurately stated by this Court in the case, of Elliot and others vs. Peirsol and others.
1 Peters, 340.

ERROR to the Superior Court of the state of Illinois.
In the Circuit Court of Cook county, in the state of Illinois, an action of ejectment was commenced in February, 1836, by John Jackson, on the demise of Murray M'Connel, against De la Fayette
Wilcox, for the recovery of a part of the military post of Fort DearbQrn, at Chicago, in the state of Illinois; the defendant being then
in possession of the premises as the commander of the post. The
defendant appeared, and after the usual pleadings, the cause Was
brought to trial in October, 1836, and submitted to the Court on an
agreed statement of facts, which was to be taken as if found as a
special verdict.
The premises sued for are part of fractional section 10, in township 39, north of range 14, east of the third principal meridian, in
the county of Cook, and state of Illinois; and embrace the military p6st called Fort Dearborn, of which post, at the time of the,
bringing of this suit, and the service of the declaration therein, the!
said defendant, Do la Fayette Wilcox, was in the possession of the,

SUPREME COURT.
(Wilcox vs. Jackson.]

said premises, and was the commandin g officer-under the authority
of the United States; which post was established by the United
States in 1804,,and was thereafter occupied by the troops of the
United States till August 16, 1812, when the troops were massacred,
and the post taken by the enemies of the country. It was reoccupied by the troops on the 4th of July, 1816; in which year the
United States caused to be built upon the fractional section, No.
10, T. 39, N. R. 14 east, some factory houses for the use of the
Indian department. The troops continued to -occupy the post
until the month of May, 1823, when it was evacuated by order of
the government, and was left in possession of Dr. A. Wolcott,
Indian agent at Chic ago.
On the 19th of August, in the year 1828, the military post was
again occupied by the troops of the government, acting under the
order of the Secretary of War, as one of the military posts of the
United States. The post was again evacuated by the troops of the
government in the month of May, 1831, though the government
never gave up the possession of the military post, called Fort Dearborn; but left the same in the possession of one Oliver Newberry,
who authorized George Dole to take and keep the same in repair;
which said Dole accordingly did. Said post was again occupied by
the troops of the government in June, 1832, under the command of
Major Whistler, an office in the army of the United States. At the
-time Major Whistler took possession, being at the time of the war
with the Sock and Fox Indiaits, several hundred persons were in
the fort for security against the Indians. The military post has
been occupied by the troops, and was generally known at Chicago
to be so occupied from that date up to the commencement of this
suit, and is still used for that purpose.
When the military post was evacuated in 1831, the quartermaster at .the post, acting under orders, sold a greater part of the
movable property, in and about the garrison, belonging to the
government, but sold none of the buildings belonging to the military post.
In the year 1817, John Baptiste Beaubean bought of one John
Dean, who was an army contractor at the post, a house built upon
said land, by the said Dean, and gave him therefor one thousand
dollars ; attached to the house was an enclosure used and occupied
by said Dean, as a garden and field, and Mr. Beaubean then took
possession ol the house and enclosure, and continued in possession,
cultivating a part of the enclosure every year, from the year 1817
to the 17th of June, 1836.
In .1823, the factory houses built at the post upon the tract of
land, were by order of the Secretary of the Treasury sold, and Capt.
Henry Whiting became the purchaser thereof:. In the same year
Whiting sold said improvements to the American Fur Company,
and the company for the sum of five hundred dollars sold to said
Beaubean, who took possession thereof, and continued to occupy
the same, together with a part of the quarter section of land, to the

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

501

(Wilcox vs. Jackson.]

date of the commencement of this suit. Mr. Beaubean continued
to occupy said houses and enclosure upon the land, and to cultivate
a part of the land unmolested and undisturbed by any person whatever, from the year 1817 up to the. day of the commencement of
this suit.
The land in question was surveyed by the government in the
year 1821.

Since the military post was reoccupied by the United States
troops in 1832, as before stated, to wit, before the first day of May,
1834, the United States built a lighthouse upon part of the land,
and have kept constantly enclosed and cultivated for the use of the
said garrison at least twenty acres of said land.. The United States
troops, by order and consent of the government, have also used and
occupied various other government lands near and adjoining the
quarter section of land.
On the 2d of September, 1824, Dr. A. Wolcott, Indian agent,
then stationed at Chicago, wrote the following letter to the Secretary of War of the United States, to wit:
"Fort Dearborn, Chicago, Sept. 2, 1824.

"Sir: I have the honour to suggest to your consideration the propriety of making a reservation of this post and the fraction on which
it is situated, for the use of .this agency. It is very convenient for
that purpose, as the quarters afford sufficient accommodation for all
the persons in the employ of the agency, and the storehouses are
safe and commodious places for the provisions and other property
that may be in charge of the agent. The buildings and other property, by being in possession of a public officer, will be preserved
for public use, should it ever be necessary to occupy them again
with a military force.
As to the size of the fraction I am not certain, but I think it contains about sixty acres; a considerable greater tract than that is
under fence; but that would be abundantly sufficient for the use of,
the agency, and contains all the buildings attached to the fort, such
as a mill, barn, stable, &c. which it would b6 desirable to preserve.
I hale the honour to be, &c.,
ALEXANDER WOLCOTT, Jun.,
HON. J. C. CALHOUN, Secretary of War.
Indiap .dgent."
Which letter John C. Calhoun, then Secretary of War of the
United States, on the 30th of September, 1824, enclosed with the
following note to George Graham, Esq., Commissioner of the General Land Office of the United States.
"Department of War, 30th Sept. 1824.
"Sir: I enclose herewith a copy of a letter from Dr. Wolcott,
Indian agent at Chicago, and request you will direct a reservation
to be made for the use of the Indian department at that post, agreeably to his suggestions. I have the honour to be, &c.
GEORGE GRAHAm,
Esq.,
J. C. CALHOUN.Commis8ionerofthe GeneralLand Office, TreasuryDepartment."

SUPREME COURT.
[Wilcox vs. Jackson.]

And thereupon, on the first day of October, 1824, George Graham,
then commissioner of the land office, addressed 'a letter in reply to
the Secretary of War, at the. same time subjoining to the letter of
the said Secretary of War, this note, to wit: "Answered the first of
October, 1824, and the frac. Sec. 10, T. 39, N. R. 14 E.-coloured
and marked on the map, as reserved for military purposes."
The letter in reply is as follows, to wit:
"General Land Office, 1st of October, 1824.

"Sir: In compliance with your request, I have directed that the
fractional section 10, Township 39, N. R. 14 E., containing 57.50
acres, and within which Fort Dearborn is'situated, should be reserved
from sale for military purposes. I am, &C. GEORGE GRAHAM.
H oN.,J. C. CALHOUN, Secretary of

War."

Which fractional section, mentioned in the foregoing letter of
Geo'rge Graham, Qmbraces the premises sued for, and Fort Dearborn, occupied by the United States as aforesaid.
After the writing and receipt of the letters aforesaid, to wit, on
the 29th day of May, 1830, Congress passsed a law grLnting the
right df pre-emption upon the public lands to every person who
cultivated any part of a quarter section of said land in 1829, and
was in the actual possession thereof on the 29th 'day of May, 1830;
but whicn pre-emption right does not extend to any land which is
reserved from sale by act of Congress, or by order of the President,
or which may have been appropriated for any purpose whatsoever,
or for the use of the United States,.or either of the states in whichany of the public lands may be situated. 'Mr. Beaubean having
cultivated a part of F section in 1829, and having been in possession of a part so cultivated on the 29th day of May, 1830; on the
7th day of May, 1831, madnp application to the Register and Receiver
of the United States lan l office at Palestine, in Illinois, and offered
to prove a pre-emptioi upon the land, and purchase the same at
private sale, under the, pre-emption law, which claim of pre-emption upon the land was not by the Register and Receiver at Palestine allowed to Mr. Beaubean.
One Robert Kenzie, on the 7th day of Mfay, 1831, made application to the Register and Receiver of the land office, to be allowed
to enter at private sale a part of the same fractional section 10; and
the claim by the said Register -and Receiver was then passed and
allowed, and Robert Kenzie was then permitted to enter at private
sale, under pre-emption law,' the north fraction of fractional section
ten.
After the application of Mr. Beaubean to the Register and Receiver at Palestine as aforesaid, to wit, on the 7th and -12th- of
May, 1831, Joseph Kitchell, then Register of 'the land office, addressed letters to Elijah Hayward, Esq., then Commissioner of the
General Land Office of the United States, informing 'him of the
application of the said Beaubean to enter said S. W. F section 10,

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

503

[Wilcox vs. Jackson.)

town 39, north of range 14 east, under the pre-emption act; and on
the 2d of November, 1831, Mr. Beaubean addressed a letter to the
said Hayward, commissioner, &c., stating that in the month of May
preceding he had filed in the offide at Palestine aforesaid, proof of
his right of pre-emption to the land, and insisting that he was
entitled to have the claim allowed; and in answer thereto was
informed by the commissioner by letter dated the 2dof February,
1832, that said south-west quarter of said fractionatiection ten, T.
39, N. R. 14 E. was reserved for military purposes. On-the'ist of
October, 1824, seyeral other persons, in behalf of said Beaubean,
after his application as aforesaid, prior to the said 2d of February,
1832, made inquiry by letter of said commissioner touching the
same, and were informed by the commissioner that the .tract Of
land had been reserved for military purposes, and said Beaubean's
apjlication as aforesaid was rejected..
.Afterwards, to wit, on the 19th day of Jilme, 1834; Congress
passed an act to revive the pre-emption law of the 29th of May,
1830, by the first section of Which act is provided that every settler
or occupant of the public lands prior to the passage of this act, who
is now in possession, and cultivated any part thereof in 1833, shall
be entitled to all the benefits and privileges of the-act entitled an
act to grant pre-emption rights to settlers on public lands, approved
29th May, 1830, and the act is hereby revived; and shall continue
in force two years from the passage of this atct and no longer-; and
Mr. Beaubean hdving cultivated a part of the fractional quarter of
section ten in 1833, and having been in the actual possession and
occupancy of the part, so by him cultivated, on the 19th day of
June 1834, the date of the passage of the last recited law, did, in
the month of July, 1834,.apply to the Register and Receiver of the
United States land office at Danville in Illinois, for leave to prove a
pre-emption, and enter the fractional quarterinder the last recited
act; which application and claim of Beaubean was rejected by the
said Register and Receiver at Danville aforesaid, Who informed
Beaubean that said land was reserved for military purposes
After the writing of the letters by Dr. Wolcott, Indian agent, and
J. C. Calhoun, Secretary of War, and George Graham, Commissioner
of the General Land Office, herein before referred to and set forth,
to wit, on the 26th day of June, 1834, Congress by a law approved
upon that day created two additionol land districts in Illinois; one
called north-west and the other the north-east land districts of 'the
state of Illinois, and the last mentioned district includes the land in
controversy.
By the fourth section of said act it'is provided that the President
shall be authorized, so soon as the survey shall be completed, "to
cause to be offered for sale, in the manner prescribed by law, all the
lands lying in said land district at the land offices, in the tespective
districts in which the lands so offered is embracedi reserving only
section sixteen in each township, the tract reserved for the village
of Galena; such other tracts, as have been granted to individuals.

•504

SUPREME COURT.
[Wilcox V8.Jackson.]

and the state of Illinois, and such reservation as the President shall
aeem necessary to retain for military posts; any law of Congress
heretofore existing to tlhe contrary notwithstanding."
It is further provided by said act, that there "shall be established
in each of said land districts a land office at such time and place as
the President tiiay deem necessary;" and that a land office was established -n said north-east land district before the 1st of May, 1835,
which is the land office at Chicago.
After the passage of the act, and after the land office aforesaid
was established, the President of the United States, on the 12th day
of Februa'ry, 1835, made and published his proclamation directing
various lands in §aid north-eastern land district to be sold at said
land office at Chicago. Among said lands so proclaimed for sale, is
'the said fractional section 10, in town 39, N. R. 14 E. unless the
same is excepted by the general exception in said proclamation, in
the words following, to wit: "The lands reserved by law for the
use, of schools, and for other purposes, will be excluded from the
sale.''
The lands were directed by the proclamation to be sold at Chicago land office aforesaid, on the 15th day of June, 1835, and before
the said 15th day of June, to wit, in the month of April, 1835, the
Commissioner of the General Lan& Office caused to be transmitted
to-said land office at Chicago the extended plat -of the land in the
said proclamation mentioned, marking and colouring upon said plat
certain lands to be reserved from sale; but neither the fractional
section 10, or any of the divisions thereof, were so marked or
coloured to be reserved from sale.
At the bottom of the President's prodlamation is a general notice
requiring all persons who claim the right of pre-emption to any
of the lands in the proclamation mentioned, to appear before the
Register and Receiver of the land office before the day appointed
by said proclamation for the sale of said lands, and prove their
pre-emption; and after the notice the said John Baptiste Beaubean
did, on the 28th day of May, 1835, appear before the register and
receiver of the land office at Chicago, there prove to the satisfaction of the said Register and-Receiver that he was entitled to the
right of pre-emption to the said south-west fractional quarter of
fractional section ten, and Mr. Beaubean did, on the 28th dwy of
May, 1835, enter and purchase at private sale of the United States
and of the. Register of said land office, the south-west fractional
section ten, and then and there paid to the Receiver of-said land
office one dollar and twenty-five cents per acre, in full payment
for said land, and obtained from the Receiver aforesaid the following receipt, to wit:
"Land Office, at Chicago, Illinois; 28th May, 1835._
"Pre-emption Act, 19th June, 1834.
No. 6. Received of John Baptiste Beaubean, of Cook county,
fllinois, the sum of ninety-four dollars ano-6ixty-one cents, being in

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

505

(Wilcox w. Jackson.]

full payment tor the south-west fractional quarter of section No. 10,
in township No. 39, north of range No. 14, east of the third principal meridian, containing seventy-five acres and sixty-ninehundredths
of an acre, at the rate of $1 25 per acre. E. D. TAYL oR, ReceiVer.
$94 61.-Michigan paper."
Mr. Beaubean also obtained from the register of the last mentioned land office a certificate in the words and Agures following, to
wit:-

" Land Office at Chicago, Illinois, May 28th, 1835.
"No. 6. It is hereby certified that, in pursuance of law, John
Baptiste Beaubean, of Cook county, state, of Illinois, on this day purchased of the register of this office the lot or sguth-west fractional
quarter of section number ten,. in township number 39, north of
range fourteen east, containing seventy-five and sixty-nine hundredths acres, at the rate of one dollar and, twenty-five cents per
acre, amounting to ninety-four dollars and seventy-five cents, for
which the said John Baptiste Beaubean has made payment in full
as required by law. Now, therefore, be it known, that on the presentation of this certificate to the Commissioner of the General Land
Office, the said John Baptiste Beaubean shall be entitled to receive a
patent for the lot above described.
JAMES WHITLOCK, Register.
Pre-emption act, 1834."

Which certificate was presented to the Commissioner of the
General Land Office, and filed in the office.
Afterwards, to wit, on the 4th day of March, 1836, the Register
of the said land office at Chicago made, signed, and delivered to
Mr. Beaubean his certificate in the words and figures following,
to wit:"1Land Office, Chicago, Illinois.
"I, James Whitlock, register of the land- office at Chicago, in the
state of Illinois, do hereby certify that John Baptiste Beaubean5 of
the town of Chicago and state of Illinois,.did, on the 28th day of
May, in the year of our Lord 1835, inder and t virtue of an act
of Congress, passed on the 19th day of June, 1834, eititled, "An act
to revive an act granting pre-emption rights to settlers on the public
lands, passed the 29th day of May, 1830, prove to the satisfaction
of the register and receiver that the said Beaubean was entitled to
the right of pre-emption under said act of the 19th of June, 1831i to
the, south-west fractional quarter of fractional section number ten, ii
township- 39, north of range number fourteen east, and the said
Beaubean did then enter and purchase of the United States and of
the register of said office the said south-west fractional quarter of
fractional section number ten, in township number thirty-nine,
north of range number fourteen east, of the third principal meridian, situated in the district of lands offered for sale at the land
office at. Chicago aforesaid, and is included in the north-east
VOL. XIII.-2 U
64.

506

SUPREME COURT.
tWilcox vs. Jackson.]

lan4 district of the state of Illinois, which tract of land contains.
seventy-five acres and sixty-nine hundredths of an acre; for which
tract of land he, the said Beaubean, paid the sum :of ninety-four do]lars and sixty.one cents, being one dollar and twenty-five cents per
acre in full payment for the same.
All of which appears by the papers on file in said land office,
and by the maps, plats, and records of said office now here.
Given under my hand, as register as aforesaid, at the land office
aforesaid, this 4th day of March, in the year of our Lord 1-836,
JAMES WHI'LCK, Register."
AfterWards, towit, on the 2d day of July, 1836, Congress passed
an act entitled an act to confirm the sales of public lands in certain
cases, by the second section of which it is provided that ." in all
cases whdre any entry has been made under the pre-emption laws,
pursuant to instructions sent to the register and receiver from the
treasury department, and the proceedings have been in all other
respects fair and regular, such entries and sales are hereby con,
firmed, and patents shall be issued thereon as in other cases."
It is admitted that th6 defendant, Wilcox, at the commencement
of this suit, and at the time of the service of the' declaration in ejectment herein, was in the occupancy and possession of the premises
in said declaration mentioned, which is a stockade of. pickets, including some wooden buildings in which the soldiers and officers
reside, and that the rents and prbfits of said premises then was, and
still are of the value of three dollars per month.
.t is also.admitted that said defendant Wilcox then was, and still
is .an officer in the'United States army, and was ordered into possession and command of the military post on the premises, together
with the United States troops under his command, by order of the
Secretary of War of the United States; -and that said Wilcox claims
no right of ownership in himself to the land, but is in possession of
and occupies the same not in his own right, but as an officer of the
army of the United States only, in the command of the post, acting
under order of the Secretary of War, and of his superior officer, and
of the United States.
After the purchase of the said land by Mr. Beaubien, as herein
before stated, to wit,.on the sixth day of February, 1836, he,
the said Beaubien, by deed duly executed, acknowledged, and recorded, according to the laws of the said state of Illinois, for and in
consideration of the sum of
dollars therein expressed, sold
and conveyed the said premises, in the declaration mentioned, to
Murray M'Connel, the lessor of the plaintiff; who purchased with a
knowledge that a controversy existed between Mr. Beaubean and
the government about said land.
It is further admitted that after the purchase of the land by J. B.
Beaubean, as herein before §tated, Elijah Hayward, Esq., then
Commissioner of the General Land Office, on the 31st of July, 1835,
addressed a letter to the Register and Receiver of the land office,

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

507

[Wilcox vs. Jackson.]

at Chicago, stating that it had been represented to the department
that the land officers at Chicago had permitted to be sold said southwest fractional section ten, T. 39 N. R. 14 E. including thl site of
Fort Dearborn, and informing them that such sale is invalid in con
sequence of the reservation and appropriation of said fraction for
military purposes, since the year 1824, and directing the Receiver to
refund to Mr. Beaubean the amount of the purchase money paid
thereon, which money was tendered by the Receiver to Mr. Beaubean, who refused to receive the same.
On the 23d of January, in the year 1834, Elijah Hayward, then
Commissioner of the General Land Office, addressed a note to the
Hon. Lewis Cass, then Secretary of War of the United States, enclosing a copy of the letter of the 30th of September, 1824, from
the then Secretary of War, Mr. Calhoun, requesting that said tract
of land at Chicago, upon which Port Dearborn was situated, might
be reserved for the Indian department, and a copy of the Commissioner Graham's reply, of the 1st of October, 1824, herein before set
forth, stating that he had directed the land to be reserved for military purposes, and after stating that the tract of land in question,
designated as fractional section ten, T. 39 N. R. 14 E. was claimed
under the act of Congress, granting pre-emption rights; and Mr,
Commissioner Hayward then requested said Secretary Cass to advise the office whether it was then (to wit, on the 23d of January,
18 34,) needed by the war department, and if so, whether it is considered a military reservation, or as a reservation for the use of the
Indian department; and on the 21st of March, 1834, the Secretary
of War addressed a letter in answer to the inquiry of the Commissioner, informing him that the reservation at Chicago, alluded to in
the letter of the Commissioner, of the 23d January, 1834, was
wanted, and was actually used for military purposes.
It is admitted that various persons, fiorn-time to time, have resided upon' the fractional quarter section ten, as well as Mr. Beaubean, but all those persons were all, in some way, connected with
the army, and acting under the command of the United States'
officers; and that one Samuel T. Brady, (who was a settler at said
military post,) in June, 1835, presented his claim to the right of preemption to the land, before the register 'and. receiver of the said
land office at Chicago, but which claim was rejected by the land
officers, or nevqr ated upon by them.
All the facts herein stated are admitted to be true; but they are
not admitted to be evidence in the cause, unless the Court should
be of opinion, upon the hearing of the case, that the facts, or any
of them, would be admissible as evidence, if offered in evidence by
one party, and objected to by the other, upon the trial of the cause

-before a jury.
It is agreed that, if the Court should be of opinion, upon the hearing of the case, that the law of the case is with the plaintiff, a judgmentshall be rendered, that he recover his term aforesaid; and that
he have his writ of ppssessionf &c., and that a judgn.ent be rendered

SUPREME COURT.
[Wilcox vs. Jackson.)

against the dcfendant in favour of the plaintiff, for the use of the
said lessor, for the amount of the rents and profits in the said plaintiff's declaration mentioned, together with his costs. But should
the Court be of opinion that the law of the case is with the defendant, then the plaintiff shall take nothing by his suit, and a judgment
shall be rendered against the lessor of the plaintiff for the cost of
this suit.
Each party retains the right to remove the cause to the Supreme
Court of the state of Illinois, by appeal or writ of error.
The judge of the Circuit Court of illinois gave judgment for the
defendant: and an appeal was taken to the Supreme Court of Illinois, by which Court the judgment of the Circuit Court was reversed,
ind judgnent entered for-the'plaintiff below.
To reverse this judgment, this writ of error was suied out at the
,nstance of the United States ; they being the parties interested in
the case.
The case was argued by Mr. Butler, and by Mr. Grundy, Attoiney General, for the plaintiffs; and by Mr. Key and Mr. Webster
foi the defendant.
For the plaintiff in error, it was contended.,
I. Even if he admitted that Beaubean was entitled to right of
pre-emptioh, and that the sale and the certificates thereof were properly made to him; still the plaintiff cannot recover in this suit.
I1. On the'trae construction of the-several acts of Congress applicable to the case; a patent is necessary to the completion of the
legal title, and nothing short of it can, as against the United States,
defeat their title in an action of ejectment.
2. The plaintiff can derive no aid from the law of Ihlinois, referred to in the opinions of the Courts below; because that law, if it
attempts to make the certificate of the Register of the land office
evidence of title as against the United States, is repugnant to the
ordinance of 1787; to the Constitution of the United States; and to
the acts of Congress for the disposal of the public lands, and is)
therefore, null and void.
II. The land officers at Chicago had no jurisdiction or authority
to allow, or act on the pre-emption claim of Beaubean ; and the entry and pretended purchase by him were, therefore, as against the
United States, utterly null and void.
1. Beaubean's possession and occupancy were subject to the control of the officers and troops of the United States stationed at Fort
Dearborn; and, therefore, he could not acquire, within the meaning
of the acts of Congress,'a pre-emption right to any part of the premises.
2. The premises in question were withdrawn from the general
operation of the pre-emption and other laws, by the act of Congress
:of March 3d, 1819, ".to authorise the sale of certain military sites."

JANUARY TERM, 1839..

509

(Wilcox vs. Jackson.]

3. If not so withdrawn, they were yet excepted from the preemption laws of the 29th of May, 1830, and the 19th of June, 1834;
because reserved and appropriated, or at least appropriatcd, for use
of the United States, within the meaning of those acts.
4. The act of June 26, 1834, creating additional land districts,
gives no right of pre-emption; and the plaintiff can therefore derive
no title therefrom; and the premises were also excepted from that
law, because reserved, within the meaning thereof, as necessary to
be retained for a military post.
Mr. Justice BARBOuR delivered the opinion of the -Court:
This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court'of the state of Illinois,
prosecuted under the 25th section of the judiciary act of 1789. It
was an action of ejectment, brought by the defendant in error against
the plaintiff in error.
From an agreed case stated in the record, the following appear
to be the material facts upon which the questions to be decided.
arise. The land in question is part of fractional section 10, in township 39, north of range 14, east of the third principal meridian, in
the county of Cook, and state of Illinois; and embraces the military
post called Fort Dearborn, of which post, at the time of bringing
the suit, Wilcox was in possession, as the commanding officer of the
United States; which post was established by the United Statds iri
1804, and was thereafter occupied by ihe troops of the United
States until the 16th August, 1812, when the troops were massacred, and the post taken by the enemy. It was re-occupied in 1816,
when the United States built upon said fractional section some factory houses for the use of the Indian department.
The troops continued to occupy it until May, 1823, when it was
evacuated by order of the government, and was left in possession
of the Indian agent at Chicago. In August, 1828, it was again
occupied by the troops, acting under the orders of the SecretaTy of
War, as one of the military posts of the United States. It was
again evacuated by the troops in May, 1831 ; but the government
never gave up possession' of it, but left it in possession of one Oliver
Newberry, who authorized a certain George Dole to take and keep
it in repair; which he accordingly did. It was again occupied by
the troops of the government in June, 1832, under command of an
officer of the army of the United States. It has been occupied by
the troops, and was generally known at Chicago to be so occupied,
from that time up to the commencement of the suit; and was at the
time of the trial still used for that purpose. When it was evacuated
in 1831, the quartermaster at the post, acting under orders, soldthe
greater part of the movable property in and about the garrison belonging to the government, but sold none of the buildings. In the
year 1817, John B. Beaubean bought of one John Dean, who was
an army contractor at the post, a house built upon the land by Dean,
at the price of $1000 : there was attached to the house an enclosure
occupied by Dean as a garden and field; Beaubean then took possession
2u2

50

SUPREME COURT.
£Wilcox vs. Jackson.]

of th house and enclosure, and continued in possession, cultivating
a part of the enclosure every year, from 1817 to 1836: In 1823,
the faciory houses on the land at said post were sold by order of the
Secretary of the Treasury, which, after an intermediate sale, were
bought by Beaubean at $500; who took possession, and continued
to occupy the same, together with a pari of the quarter section of
land, until the commencement of this suit. Beaubean continued to
occupy the houses and enclosure, and to cultivate a part of the land,
without interruption, from 1817 to the commencement of this suit.
The land was surveyed by government in- 1821. Since it was reoccupied by the troops in 1832, and before the 1st of May, 1834,
the United States built a lighthouse on part of the land, and have
kept at least twenty acres constantly enclosed and cultivated for the
use of the garrison. _n the year 1824, at the instance of the then
Indian agent at Chicago, who suggested that it would be convenient
for the accommodation of the persons and protection of -the property
of the agency, the Secretary of War requested the Commissioner of
the General Land'Office to direct a reservation to be made for the use
of the Indian department at that post; and in October, 1824, the
Commissioner answered, saying that he had directd the section now
in question to be reserved from sale, for military purposes. In May,
1831, Beaubean made a claim for pre-emption of the land in question at the land office in Palestine, which was rejected. In February, 1832, in answer to a letter from Beaubean on the subject, the
Commissioner of the General Land Office informed him that the land
in question was reserved for military purposes. The same information was given to others who made application in behalf of Beaubean. In 1834, he made claim for a pre-emption in the same, at
the Danville land office, which was also rejected. In 1835, Beaubean applied to the land office at Chicago, when his claim to preemption was allowed; and he paid the purchase money, and procured the Register's certificate thereof. Wilcox went into and
continued in possession, claiming no right of ownership; but as an
officer of the United States only, in command of said post, acting
under'the orders of the Secretary of War, his superior officer, and
the United States. Beaubean sold and conveyed his interest to the
lessor of the plaintiff.
Upon this state of facts two questions arise which, in our opinion,
-mbraces tho whole merits of the case; and which we will now proceed to examine. The first is, wlther under the, facts of the case,
and the law applying to them, Beaubean acquired any title whatsoever to the land in question? The second is, whether if he did
acquire any title at all', is it such an one as will enable the lesser of
the plaintiff to recover in this action ?
As to the first question. The ground of the claim is the right of
Beaubean as a settler, to a pre-emption under the act of the' 19th
June, 1834, entitled, "An act to revive an act. granting pre-emption
rights to settlers on the public lands, passed 29th of May, 1830."
ow, as this act gives to the persons claiming under it the beneiitR

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

S. 511

[Wilcox vs. Jackson.]

and privileges provided by the act of 1830, which it revives. we
must look to this last act in order to ascertain what are those bonefits and privileges, or, in other words, what is the character of the,
pre-emption right thus claimed, and on What lands the claim is
allowed to operate. It authorizes every settler or occupant of the
public lands, under the circumstances therein stated, to enter with
the Register of the land office in which the land lies, by leal subdivisions, a quantity of land not exceeding a quarter section subject
-to the f61lowing limitations and restrictions :---" That no entry or
sale of any land shall be made under the provisions of the act,
which shall have been reserved for the use of the United States, or
either of theT several states, or which is reserved from sale by act of
Congress, or by order of the Presideit, or which may have been
appropriated for any purpose whatsoever." Before we proceed to, inquire whether the land in question falls
within the scope of any one of these prohibitions, it is necessary to
examine, a preliminary objection which was urged at the bar, which,
ifsustainable. would render that inquiry wholly unavailing. It is
this-that the acts of Congress have given to the Registers and Receivers of the. land Offices the power of deciding upon claims to the right
ofpre-emption-that upon these questions they act judicially-that no
appeal having been given from their decision, it follows as a consequence that it is conclusive and irreversible. This proposition is true
in-relation to every tribunal acting judicially, whilst acting within the
sphere of their jurisdiction, where no appellate tribunal is created;
and even when there is such an appellate power, the- judgment is
conclusive when it only comes collaterally into question, so long as it
is unreversed. But directly the reverse of this is true in relation to
the judgment of any Court acting beyond the pale of its authority.
The principle upon this subject is .concisely and accurately stated
by this Court in the case of Elliott, et al. vs. Peirsol et al., 1 P6ters,
340, in these words: "where a Court has jurisdiction, it has a right
todecide every question which occurs in the cause; and whether
its decision be correct or otherwise, its judgment, until reversed is
regarded as binding in every other Cburt. But if it act without
authority, its judgments and orders are regarded as nullities. They
are not voidable, but simply void." Now to apply this.-. Even assuming that the decision of the Register and Receiver, in the,absence
of fraudswould be conclusive as to the facts of the applicant then
being in possession, and his cultivation during the preceding year,
because these questions are directly submitted to them; yet if they
undertake to grant pre-emptions in land in which the law declares
they shall not be granted, then they are acting upon a subject mat-'
ter clearly not within their jurisdiction ; as much so as if a, Court,
whose jurisdiction was declared not to extend beyond a given spm,
should attempt to take cognizance of a case beyond thatsum.
We now return to the inquiry whether thp land in question falls within any of the prohibitions contained in the act of Congress. Amongst
others, lands, which may have'been appropriated for any purposek

,SUPREME COURT.
[Wilcox vs. Jackson.]

whatsoever, are exempt from liability to the right of pre-emption.
Now, that the land in question has been appropriated in point of
fact there can be no doubt, for the case agreed states that it has
been used from the year 1804 until and after the institution of this
suit, as well for the purpose of a military post as for that of all
Indian agency, with some occasional interruption. Now this is
appropriation, for that is nothing more nor less than setting apart
the thing for some particular use. But it is said that this appropriation must be made by authority of law. We think that the
appropriation in this case, was made by authority of law. As far
back as the year 1798, see act of May 3d of that year, vol. iii. Laws
U. S. 46, an appropriationwas made for the purpose, amongst
other things, of enabling the Presiderit of the United States to erect
fortifications in such place or places as the public safety should, in his
opinion, require. Bly the act of 21st of April, 1806, vol. iv. Laws
U. S., 64, the President, was authorized to establish trading houses
at such posts and places, on the frontiers or in the Indian country
on either or both Sides of the Mississippi river, as he should judge

most convenient for, carrying on trade with- the Indians. And. by
act of June 14, 1809, Jae was authorized io erect 'such fortifications
as might, in "his opinion, bo necessary for the protection of the
northern and western frontiers. We thus see that tife. establishing
trading houses with the Indian tribes, and the erection of fortifications in the west, are purposes authorized by law; and that.lthey
were to be established and erected by the President. But the place
in question is one at which a trading house has been established,
and a fortificatiori or military post erected. It would not be doubted,
we suppose, by any one, that if Congress had by law directed the
-trading house to be established and the military post erected 'at Fort
Dearborn, by name; that this would have been by authority-of law.
But instead of designating the place themselves, they left it to the
discretion of the President, which is precisely the-same thing in
effect. Here then is an appropriation, not only for one but for two
purposes, of the same place, by authority of law. But there has been
a third appropriation in this case by authority of law. Congress, by
law, authorized the erection of a lighthouse at the mouth of Chicago
river, which is within the limits of the land in question, and appropriated $5000 for its erection; and the case agreed states that the
lighthouse was built on part of the land in dispute before the 1st of
May, 1834. We think, then, that dhere has been an appropriation,
not only in ict but in law.
There would be difficulty in deciding to what extent this appropriation reached, if there were not materials furnished- by the
record which reduce it to precision. At the request of the Secretary of War, the Commissioner of the General Land Office in,
1824, coloured and marked upon the map this very section, as
reserved for military purposes, and directed it to be reserved from
sale for those purposes. We consider this, too, as having been
doe .by authority of law.; for amongst other provisions in the

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

513

[Wilcox)vs. Jackson.]

act of 1830, all lands are exempted from pre-emption which are
reserved from sale by order of the President. Now although
the immediate agent in requiring this reservation was the Secretary of War, yet we feel justified in presuming that it was done
by the approbafion and direction of the President. The President
speaks and acts through the heads of the several departments
,in relation to subjects which appertain to their respective duties.
Both military posts and Indian affairs, including agencies, belong
to the war department. Hence we consider the act of the war department in requiring this reservation to be made, as being in legal
contemplation the act of the President; and, consequently, that the
reservation thus made was in legal effect, a reservation made by
order of the President, within the terms of the act of Congress.
It is argued, however, that by the 4th section of the act of the 26th
of June, 1834, the President was authorized to cause to be sold all
the lands in the north-east district of the state of Illinois, embracing
the land in question with certain reservations only, within which
it is contended that the land in question is not- included-that a proclamation was issued directing various lands in said district to be
sold, and that amongst the lands so proclaimed was the land in
question, unless excepted by the following exception :_" the kinds
reserved by law for the use of schools, and for other purposes, will
be excluded from the sale."-And that an extended plat was forwarded from the general land oflice, marking and colouring certain
lands tobe reserved from sale; but that the land in question was
not so marked or coloured, to be reserved from sale.
In the first place we remark, that we do not consider this law as
applying at all to the case. That has relation to a sale of lands in
the manner prescribed by general law at public auction, whilst the
claim to the and m question is founded on a right of pre-emption,
and governed by different laws. The very act of 19th of June, 1834,
under which this claim is rhade, was passed but one week before
the one of which we are now speaking; thus showing that the provisions of the one were 'not intended to have any effect upon the
subject matter on which the other operated. But we go further,
and say, that whensoever a tract of land shall have once been legally
appropriated to any purpose, from that moment the land thus appropriated becomes severed from the mass of public lands; and that no
subsequent law, or proclamation, or sale, would be construed to
embrace it, or to operate upon 'it; although no reservation were
made of it.
The very act which we are now considering will furnish an illustration of this proposition. -Thus, in that act there is expressly reserved from sale the land, within that district which had been
granted to individuals, and the state of Illinois. Now suppose this
reservation had not been made, either in the law, proclamation, or
sale, could it b'e conceived that if that land were sold at auction, the
title of the purchaser would. avail against the individuals or state to
whom the previous grants had been made? If, as we suppose, this
65

514

SUPREME COURT.
(Wilcox vs. Jackson.]

question must be answered in the negative, the same principle will
apply to any land which by authority of law shall have been severed
from the general mass. Let us for a moment consider to what results a contrary doctrine would lead; and the case before us will furnish a ver,' striking illustration of them. If the party claiming the
pre-emption right here were to succeed, together with the land, he
wotld recover all the improvements made upon it at the public expense. The lighthouse and improvements alone, it seems by reference to the act making an appropriation for its erection, cost $5000.
How much was expended in the buildings at the military post we
have no means of knowing, but probably a considerably larger sum.
Thus, besides the land purchased, for the sum of $94 61, he would
recover property, and that too property necessary for. the military
defence. and commerce, of the country, which cost the United, States
many thousands of dollars; and if there had been expended upon it as
many-hundreds pf thousands, as there have been thousands, the same
result would follow. A principle leiading to such startling consequences cannot in -our..opinion be a sound one. The right of preemptibn was a bounty extended to settlers and occuipants of the
public domain. We cannot suppose that this bounty was designed
to be extended at the sacrifice of public establishments, or great public interests. When the act of 1830 was passed, Congress must have
known of the authority which had by former laws been given to
the President, to establish trading houses and military posts. They
must have known, for it was part of-the public history of the
country, that a military post had been long established at Fort Dearborn; and' was at the date of the law 'occupied as such by the troops
of the United States. They seem therefore to have been studious
to use language of so comprehensive a kind, in the exemption from
the right of pre-emption, as to embrace every description of reservation and appropriation which had been previously made for public
purposes. We have already said, that we think the -language in
which these exemptions are expressed is comprehensive enough to
embrace the present case, so as to place it beyond the reach of the
right of pre-emption.
It is further argued 'that this case is embraced by the second section of the6act of July 2d, 1836, entitled, "An act to confirm the
sales of public lands in certain cases." That section is in these
words: "And be it further enacted,.that in all cases where an entry
has been made under the pre-emption laws pursuant to instructions
sent to the Register and ReceiNer from the treasury department, and
the proceedings have been in aliother respects fair and regular, such
entries and sales are hereby confirmed; and patents shall be issued
thereon, as in other cases." Now the first remark we make upon
this act is, that when the previous law had totally exempted certain
lands from the right of pre-emption, if there were nothing else in the
case, it would be a very strong, not to say strained corstruction of
this section, to hold that Congress meant thereby by implication to
repeal the former law in so importar~t a provision. .But we are

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

515

[Wilcox vs. Jackson.]

satisfied that there were other cases to which it was intended to
apply; where the instructions from the treasury department assumed,
to say the least, a doubtful if not an illegal power. As, for example,
the instructions of the 7th February and 17th October, 1831, by
which entries were allowed to be made and certificates issued under
the act 1830; which was only in force for one year from its passage;
after, the expiration of the year, where the persons claiming had
been deprived of the benefits of the act of 1830, by reason of the
township plats not having been furnished by the surveyor-general,
and where, nevertheless, proofs of the claim had been filed before
the expiration of the year. To this case, and others similarly
situated, the law may well apply; because without affecting the
general principles of the system, they present instances in which innocent parties would have been injured by the acts or omissions of
public officers, or by some other cause, as to which no fault was imputable to them. But, further,.the entries to be saved by this section must have been pursuant to instructions sent to the Register and
Receiver from the treasury department. Now it not only is not
shown that any instructions were so sent which would authorize
this pre-emption; but, on the contrary, the agreed case shows that
the Register and Receiver at the Palestine land office rejected it in
1831; that the Commissioner of the General Land Office, in the
same year, in answer to a letter of Beaubei-n complaining of that
rejection, informed him that the land was reserved for military purposes; and that in July, 1834, after the passage of the pre-emption.
law of that year, he applied to the Register and Receiver of the Danville land office to prove a pre-emption to the same land, who also
rejected j/he application; and Again informed him that it was reserved for military purposes. Finally, by the express terms of this
section, entries under the pre-emption laws, to be protected by it
must be in all other respects fair and regular. Now as the patents
were to be issued by the Coiiimissioner of the General Land Office,
and as thby were only to issue where the proceedings were fair and
regular, that officer must' of necessity be the judge of that fairness
and regularity. But as he refused to issue the patent, we know not
whether he considered the proceedings in this case as being fair and
regular. If they were not so, then they were not confirmed. We
think.therefore that the claimant can derive no aid from the act of
1836. Our conclusion then, in relation to the first question is, that
under the facts of the case, and the law applying to them; Beaubqan
acquired no title whatsoever to the land in question.
This being the case,.it would not be absolutely necessary to dpcide
the second question; but as it arises in the case, and has been fully
argued, we will bestow upon it a very brief examination. That
question is, whether if he had acquired any title at all, it was such
an one as would enable the lessor of the plaintiff below to recover
in this' action ? Wilcox, the defendant in the original suit, did not,
claim, or pretend to set up any right or title in himself He held
possession as an officer of the United States; and for them, and under

516

SUPREME COURT.
[Wilcox vs. Jackson.]

their orders. This being the state of the case) the question which
we are now examining is really this, whether a person holding a register's certificate without a patent, can recover the land as against
the United States.
We think it unnecessary to go into a detailed examination of
the various acts of Congress, for the purpose of showing what
we consider to be true in regard to the public: lands, that with
the exception of a few cases, nothing but a patent passes a perfect and consummate title. One class of cases to be excepted
is where an act of Congress grants land, as is sometimes done in
words of present grant. But we need not go into these exceptions.
The general rule is what we have stated ; and it applies as well to
pre-emptions as to other purchases of public lands. Thus it will
appear by the very act of 1836 which we have been examining,
that patents are to issue in pre-emption cases. This then being the
case, and this suit having been in effect against the United States;
to hold that the party could recover as against them, would be to
hold that a party having an inchoate and imperfect title could recover against the one in whom resided the perfect title. This, as a
general proposition of law, unquestionably, cannot be maintained.
But it is argued that a law of the state of Illinois declares that a
Register's certificate shall be deemed evidence of title in the party sufficient to recover possession of the lands described in such certificate,
in any action of ejectment or forcible entry and detainer; but the
same law declares that tjis shall be the case, unless a better legal
and paramount title be exhibited for the ,same. Upon the construction of the law itself it would not apply to this case, because the
United States not having parted with a consummate legal title by
issuing a patent, a better legal and paramount title was exhibited
for the same. Where that was not the case* but the suit should be
against any person not having the right of possession, or against a
trespasser, these are the kinds of cases in which it would seem to us,
by the proper construction of the act, that it was intended to' operate.
A much stronger ground however has been taken in argument.
It has been said that the state of Illinois has a right to declare by law
that a title derived from the United States, which by their laws is
only ineh'ate and imperfect, shall be deemed as perfect a title as if
a patent had issued from the United States; and'the construction
of her own Courts seems to give that effect to her statute. That
state has an-undoubted right to legislate as she may please in regard
to the rem'edies to be prosecuted in her Courts, and to regulate the
disposition of the property. of her citizens by descent, devise, or
alienation. But the property in question was a part of the public
domain of the United States: Congress is invested by the Constitution with the power of disposing of, and making needful rules and
regulations respecting.it. Congress has declared, as we have said,
by its" legislation, that in such a case as this a patent is necessary to
complete the title. But in this case no patent has issued; and therefore by the laws of the United States the'legal title has not passed,

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

517

[Wilcox vs. Jackson.)

but remains in the United States. Now if it were competent for a
state legislature to say, that notwithstanding this, the title shall be
deemed to have passed; the effect of this would be, not that Congress had the power of disposing of the public lands, and prescribing
the rules and regulations concerning that disposition, but that Illinois
possessed it. That would be to make the laws of Illinois paramount
to those of Congress, in relation to a subject confided by the Constitution to Congress only. And the practical result in this very case
would be, by force of state legislation to take from the United
States their own land, against their own will, and against their own
laws. We hold the true principle to be this, that'whenever thp
question in any Court, state or federal, is, whether a title to land
which had once been the property of the United States has passed,
that question must be resolved by the laws of the United States;
but that whenever, according to those laws, the title shall have
passed, then that property, like all other property in the state, is
subject to state legislation; so far as that legislation is consistent
with the admission that the title passed and vested according to the
laws of the United States.
It was urged at the bar, that the case of Ross vs. Doe on the demise of Barland and others, in this Court, 1 Peters, 656, sustained
the ground taken as to the obligatory force of the law of Illinois.
A very brief examination of that -case will show that it falls greatly
short of what it is supposed to decide. That was a conflict-between
two patentees, both claiming under the'United States. The elder
patent was founded upon a certificate of the Register of the land office west of Pearl river. The junior patent was issued on a certificate of the board of Commissioners west of Pearl river. The Court
below instructed the jury that the junior patent of the plaintiff in
ejectment, emanating upon a certificate for a donation claim prior
in date to the patent under which the defendan t claimed, would
overreach the elder patent of the defendant, and in point of law,
prevail against it. It appears, that by the mode of proceeding in
Mississippi, they look beyond the grant. This Court, remarking
upon that, said, that in so doing, and in applying their peculiar mode
of proceeding to titles derived through and under the laws of the
United States, they Violated no provisions of any statute of the
United States.
But the Court then proceeded to say: "The important question
in the case is this; in applying its own principles and practice in the
action of ejectment, as might well be done in this -case, has the
Court misconstrued the act of Congress in deciding that the grant
of the plaintiff, emanating upon the donation certificate of the
oard of Commissioners west of Pearl river set forth in the record,
would overreach the defendant's grant, and should prevail against
it in the action of ejectment." They then proceed to examine the
various acts of Congress upon the subject; declare their opinion to
be, that the determination of the Commissioners was final; and
come to the conclusion, that the Supreme Court of Mississippi -had
VOL. XIII.-2 X

.518

SUPREME COURT.
[Wilcox vs. Jackson.]

not misconstrued the acts of Congress, from which the rights of the
parties were derived; and, consequently, affirmed the judgment.
Thus it will appear, that in that case, whilst the form and mode of
proceeding by the law of Mississippi were recognised, yet the rights
of the parties depended exclusively upon the construction of acts of
Congress; and that this Court thought that the Court below had construed them correctly. This case, then, affords no countenance whatever to the argument founded upon it.
Upon the whole, we are of opinion that the judgment of the Supreme Court of Illinois is erroneous : it is. therefore, reversed, with
costs.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Supreme Court of the state of Illinois, and was argued by
counsel. On consideration whereof, it is ordered and adjudged by
this Court, that the judgment of the said Supreme Court in this
cause be, and tho same is hereby," reversed and anni liled,. with
costs; and that this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to
the said Supreme Court, that such further proceedings may be had
therein, in conformity to the opinion and judgment of this Court,
and as to law and justice may appertain.

