SUPREME COURT.,

PAULINA S. WHITING, AND. HELEN B. WHITING, HEIRS AT LAW OF
RUGGLES WHITING, DECEASED, JAMES RICHA4DSON, ADMINISTRATdR OF RUGGLES WHITING, AND ENFIELD JOHNSON, AND GABRIEL
J.JOHNSON, APPELLANTS, VS. THE BANK oF THE UNITED STATES.

According to the course of practice in the Courts of the United States, in chancery cases,
an original decree is to be deemed recorded and enrolled, as of the term in which the final
decree was passed. A bill which seeks to have alleged errors revised for want of parties,
or for want of proper prodeedings after the decree against his heirs, after the decease of one
of the parties, is certainly a bill of review; in contradistinction to a hill in the nature of
abill of review; which lies only where there has been no enrollment of the decree.
An original bill, in the nature of a bill of review, brings forward the interests affected by
the decree, other than those which are founded in privity of representation.
In England, the decree always recites the substance of the bill and ans ver, and the pleadings, and also the facts on which the Court founds its decree. But .n America, the decree does not, ordinarily, recite these, and, generally, not the facts on which the decree is
founded. But with us, the bill and answer, and other pleadings, together with the decree,
constitute what is properly considered as the record.
The hill of review must be founded on some error apparent upon the bill, answer, and other
pleadings, and decree; and a party is not at liberty to go into the evidence at large, in

order, to establish an objection in the decree founded on the supposed mistake of the
Court in its own deductions from the evidence. I
rio party to a decree can, by the general principles of equity, claim a reversal of a decree
upon a bill of,review, unless he has been aggrieved by it; whatever may have been his
rights to insist on the error at the original hearing, or on an appeal.
decree of foreclosure of a mortgage, and of a sale, are to be considered as the final decree
in the sense of a Court of Equity; anil the proceedings on the decree are a mode of enforcing the rights of the creditor, and for the benefit of the debtor. The original decree

of foreclosure is final on the merits of the controversy. If a sale is made after such a
decree, the defendant not having appealed as he had a right to do, the rights of the purchaser would not be overthrown or invalidated even by a reversal of the decree.
After a dedree of foreclosure of a mortgage and a sale, and the death of the-defendant takes
place after the decree, it is not necessary to revive 'the proceedings against the heirs of
the deceased party before a sale of the property can be made.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Dis.
trict of Kentucky.
The case as stated in the opinion of the Courtwas as follows:"This is the case of a bill, purporting to be a bill of review. The
substantial facts, as they appear on the record, are as follows:Gabriel J. Johnson, being the owner in remainder of a five acre lot,
No. 9, in Louisville, Kentucky, of which his mother, Enfield Johnson, was tenant for life, under the will of his father, and being also
the owner in fee by another title of another piece of land adjoining
the five acre lot, a part of the slip No. 2, on the 12th day of No.
vember, A. D. 1818, conveyed the same in mortgage to James D,
B3reckenridge, to secure the latter for his endorsements of three certain notes of Johnson to Ruggles Whiting, each. for four thousand
dollars, and for any other notes and contracts which Breckenridge'
should thereafter make, execute, accept, or endorse for the benefit
Q.fJohnson.

Afterwards, on the 9th day of Augut, A; -D.182Om,

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

7

[Witing et al. vs. The Pank of the United Stawq-

Johnson & Breckenridge, as his surety, being Indebted to the Bank
of the United States in the sum of nine thousand nine hundred and
thirty-one dollars and thirty-seven cents, arrangements were made.
between them and Whiting, by whichWhitiag assumed the payment of the same debt, and gave hut. iote toorefor, to the bankx accordingly; and as isecurity for the due payment thereof, Johnson
and his mother Enfield Johnson, Breckenridge and Whiting, on the
same day, executed a mortgage of the five acre lot and slip of land
above mentioned to the Bank of the United States, reciting, among
other things, the foregoing arrangement. The condition of.the mortgage, among other things, stated, that it was agreed by the parties,
that after the satisfaction of the said demands due by Whiting to the
bank, and by Gabriel J. Johnson to Whiting, the estate or the residue thereof, or any surplus in money, by the sale thereof, should be
paid or conveyed to Enfield Johnson, or her assigns. The mortgage
also contained a stipulation for the sale of the premises, to meet the
payment of the debt due to the bank. In April, 1823, the debt due
and thus secured to the bank remaining unpaid, a bill for a foreclosure and sale was brought by the bank, in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the District of Kentucky; and to that bill Gabriel J. Johnson, Enfield Johnson, and Whiting were made parties.
-But Breckenridge was not made a party. At the November term
of the Circuit Court, A. D. 1826, a decree of foreclosure of all the,
equity or right of resumption of the defendants in the mortgaged
premises, was passed; and a further decree, that the premises should
be sold by commissioners. The sale took place accordingly; the
bank became the purchasers, and the sale was confirmed by the
Circuit Court, at May term, 1827. In the intermediate time between
the original decree of foreclosure and the sale, viz., on the 26th of
February, 1827, Whiting died in Massachusetts, leaving the plaintiffs in the present bill, Paulina Whiting, and Helen B. Whiting, and
one L. R. Whiting (since dead without issue) his children and heirs
at law-who were then infants under age; and the youngest, Helen,
did not come of age until 1831.
The present bill is brought by Paulina Whiting and Helen B.
Whiting, by James Richardson, administrator of Ruggles Whiting,
and by Gabriel J. Johnson and Enfield Johnson, against the Bank
of the United States: and after stating the proceedings in the original suit upon the mortgage, and that the sale was made at a great
sacrifice of the property, it relies on the following grounds of error
in the proceeding, decree and sale in the original suit. 1. That it
was irregular and erroneous to entertain' the bill, and pronounce the
decree for foreclosure and sale, without Breckenridge being made a
party defendant. 2. That it was irregular'and erroneous to sell tb!
property mortgaged without a revival of the suit. against the heirs
of Whitirig. 3. That it was unjust and oppressive to sell in the
manner and at the price at which the sale took place.
. The answer of the bank denies all equity in the plaintiffs, and insists that the decree and sale were fair and jUSi. It also'derxies that

SUPREME COURT.
[Whiting et al. vs. The Bank of the United States.]

Whiting and Breckenricige had any title to th, ,ropertv; and insists
that they joined in the mortgage, merely to ,)mplete the arrangements made between Johnson and themselves. • It also denies that
the death of Whiting was known at the time of the sale. It states
that the property was, after the purchase by the bank, improved,
and parts thereof sold t6 bona' fide purchasers, for valuable considerations; and by reason of the improvements, and the extension of
the city, parts of the grounds so sold are now among the most beautiful and densely built parts of the city. The answer. also states,
that Whiting died insolvent and deeply indebted to tile bank, by
certain other judgments and notes."
The case was argued by Mr. Underwood, at the bar, and by a
printed argument abmitted by Mr. Lovering for the appellants;
and by Mr. Serjeant for the appellees.
I or the appellants, Paulina and Helen Whiting, it was contended,
they have an evident interest in the, land.. Being all infants -at the
death of their father, in February, and at the rendition of the last
decree in May, they are within the exceptions of every statute of
limitations operating by direct or remote analogy on this case ; and
their rights being joint, the disabilities must be removed before the
statute can run. In England the limitation to bills of review is
twenty years, and by the law of the United States five, years, on
writs of error; which furnishes the criterion in this case. Act of the
Legislature of Kentucky, of 1816. May vs. Marsh, 2 Litt. Rep. 148
The interest of Whiting in the land was also certain and evident.
and material. The title to the bank was his only security for a part.
at least, of his large demand', and the only consideration for his
assumption of the debts of Johnson to the bank. The hopeless
insolvency of Johnson rendered the security of the land the only
means of indenmnity fbo his responsibility for the debt of tei thousand
dollars-,--the bank held the property as a trustee for his benefit.
The proceeding, in'the original cause was to be regulated by the
laws of Kentucky; and as Breckenridge'had an interest in the property, he should have been made a party. The record stows' the
existence 'of this interest,' and: he has been deprived of it by the
decree of the Court and yet no notice of tile proceedings has been,
given to him.
By the laws of Kentucky 'the assignee of a promissory note is
liable to the assignor, if due diligence has not been used to collect
the note; and Brackenridge was the endorser of notes given for a
steamboat. .Whiting had proceeded on the notes against Johison,
and had obtained judgmentagainst Johnson. He then made an
agreement to discharge Johnson, holding Breckenridge liable on his
endorsements. Tile rnortgage was the means of indemnity to Breckenridge, and for this reason he was a necessary party in the proceedings to foreclose. Any balance which should remain after
paying tile debt -to "the bank, woUld have 'been applied fbr the relief
of Brcckenridge, on the notes of Jobnsort. Morrett vs. Western,

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

9

[Whiting et al. vs. The Bank of the United States.]

Vern.-663. Haines vs: Beach, 3 Johns. Ch. Rep. 456. 4 Ch. Rep.
605. Ensworth vs. Lambert, 6 Ch. Rep. 450. 4 Con. Rep. Su. Ct.
U. S. 190. Caldwell vs. Taggart, 4 Peters, 190.: Mayo w. Tompkins, 6 Mun. 520.
The sale of the property after the decree of foreclosure was irregular, without reviving the proceedings against the representatives
of Whiting. His death before the sale made it as necessary to make
his heirs and representatives parties. asit was originally necessary
to make Whiting a party. If it is said, that there was a right to sell
under a levy made before the death of the defendant; a number of
authorities sustain the contrary 'Position.
The party defendant has a right to come in after a sale, and
object to it; if any thing in the proceedings has been irregular or
illegal. If the return to the order of sale had stated that all the s, ties were dead, would the Court have confirmed the sale? By tne
laws of Kentucky the defendant has a right to point out what part
of the estate may be sold under an order of sale. The necessity of
the presence of the defendant at the sale, is therefore apparent. Both
Breckenridge and Whiting were lead at the time of the sale, and
yet the sate was confi . -ied. The decree confirming the sale should
therefore be opened, and the parties now before the Court should be
allowed to come in and redeem. Allen vs.'Beleher et al. 2 Hen. &
Mun. 595. Also Mackey vs. Bell, 2 Mun. 523. Lovell vs. Dana,
2 Mun. 367. Forman vs. Hunt, Ibid, 622.
The interest in the complainants is sufficient for a bill of review.
4 John J. Marshall's Reports, 500. This case shows that a bill of
review will lie in such a matter as that now presented to the Court.
This case will be decided by the cases which have been decided
in the Courts of Kentucky. In Kentucky bills of review are allowed
for errors on the face of the record, and not in cases where the error
is in the decree only. In Kentucky a bill of review lies for any
error in the proceedings in the case. There the decree does not, as
in England, set forth the whole matter in the cause; and to deny
a bill of review on the principles which apply to the cases in the
Court of Chancery in England, would be to deny it altogether.
If this is the law, and it will not be denied, the record exhibits
such errors as may be brought before the Court by a bill of review.
Brackenridge was a necessary party. He had a deep interest in
the proceedings against the land.
No exception will lie to the bill on the ground of the interference
of the statute of limitations. It was filed within five years after the
sale, and the termination of the minority of the children of Whiting.
The law of the United States saves the rights of minors.
While it is admitted that no case has been cited in which a bill
of review has been sustained, principally like that now before the
Court; yet it is claimed that in such a case a writ of error would lie
if the proceedings had been at law; and the bill of review in a
The
chancery case is analogous to a writ of error in a case at lawt.
argument for the appeilees is, that if in the ,course of the proceedings

10

SUPREME COURT.
[Whiting et al.vs. The Bank of the United States.]

to sell the property, exceptions were not taken to their regularity,
they cannot now be taken notice of by a bill of review. Yet writs
of error are maintained in suits on the ground of want of parties.
The practice is to send back the proceedings, and allow amendments to be made which will bring the merits of the case forward.
This is a similar case. 6 John J.Marshall's Rep. 197.
The heirs may come in and show they were not parties to the
sale, and may examine the manner in which it was conducted.
This is essential to the proceedings in the case.
It is said that the decree is final on the order of foreclosure of the
mortgage; but this is erroneous. The proceedings in the case are
not final until the property is sold, and the proceedings of sale confirmed by the Court. The equity of redemption continues, until the
sale of the property and the ratification of the sale. A party who
has a decree of foreclosure in hfs favour, in proceedings on a mortgage, cannot hold the property under the decree. By the decisions
of the Courts of Kentucky, a sale of the mortgaged. premises must
-be mado; and the residue of the proceeds of the sale, after payment
of the debt, must be paid to the mortgagor. Suppose part of the
estate sold and the mortgage satisfied; does not the residue belong
to the mortgagor ? This shows a continuing interest in the property
mortgaged, until the proceedings of sale are completed:
Mr. Seig ant for the appellees.The objections by the appellants are to the sale of -the property.
The first matter to be noticed is, that the interests in the land sold
under the decree of foreclosure, have essentially changed. The property has been sold without warranty, and large and expensive
buildings have beei erected upon it. This is stated in the answer
of the Bank of the United States to the complainant's bill; and in the
agreed statement of facts.
I" It is admitted that the bank pulled down a plain brick dwellinghomuse, as appears in said will, No. 2, on said lot where Fifth Cross
,$Street, if extended, would run and exiend said street to Walnut
Street, and they sold, as stated in the answer, to different persons,
and the improvements stated of the Roman Catholic church and
others, extension of the stifeet and other improvements have been
made and put upon the ground, and that the persons named are
living on the lot aforesaid."
All these persons have expended large sums in the improvement
of the property, and the question before the Court is, whether all
that was done in 1827 shall be undone; and the parties be permitted
to come in and redeem. This is what is asked. It is not the course of
a Court of equity, on a bill of review, to bring into review what has
been decided. If such a bill were allowed, it would be in the nature of an answer, and bring again into controversy all that had been
pas ed upon by the Court. The res adjudicata, is in equity as at
law. The rule must be the same.
There are bills of review in the nature of original bills, as whert

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

11

[Whiting et aL vs. The Bank of the United Statm],

a person has not been niade a party to the original pioceedings, and
may be affected by them. Mr. Breckenridge might in this case
have come in, if he had been injured.
There are two other descriptions of bills of review in England.
1. A bill filed after the original bill has been enrolled, or there has
been a final decree. 2. A bill filed when the decree has not been
made, and before enrollment.
The error must be apparent on the face of the decree, and the
Court cannot go into the evidence in the original proceedings.
Story's Equity, 334. Lord Eldon in Perry vs. Philips, 17 Vez. 178.
No persons but parties or privies can have a bill of review. Gilbert, For. Rom. 186. Slingsby vs. Hale, 1 Chan. Cas. 122. And
none but those who have an interest in the proceedings can maintain such a bill' nor unless they suffer from the particular error assigned, or pointed out in the decree. Webb vs. Pell, 3 Paige, .368.
Mitford (by Jeremy), 205. Other persons in interest, and privies in
title or estate, who are aggrieved by the decree, may have an original bill in the nature of a bill of review, so far as their own interests are concerned. Wyatt, 98. 100. Mitford, 92.
Opportunities, during the proceedings on a bill 'in chancery, to interpose and correct errors, are, always afforded, as by demurrer or
by plea, when proper parties may be introduced. 16 Vez. 325.
Mitford, 180. Cowper, 185. 3 Paige, 222. 2 Paige. 281. The
CQurt will then decide on the matters presented, and .0 necessary
there may be an amended bill, or a supplemental bill. But such a
decision would not be an error in the decree to entitle to a bill of review. This is much stronger where a party has been omitted and
does not complain; as in the case before the Court, in which Breckenridge is not a party.
But in addition to all these matters, Whiting had not a title to the
property, or any interest in it. It had never been his, and the proceeding to foreclose against him, divested every equitable claim if
could set up. The decree of foreclosure was in the lifetime
Whiting, barring him and his heirs, and the statute of limitatio-,s
began to run from the time of the decree. An execution levied does,
not stop by the death of the party. The sale did not require as a
prerequisite to its proceeding and completion, that the heirs should
be brought in.
Finally. The bill of review is barred by length of time. Elmendorf vs. Taylor, 10 Wheat. 150. More than five years have elapsed
from the decree fo the filing of the bill of review. The statute, as has
been said, began' to run its course in the life of Whiting; and it was
not stopped by disabilities occurring on his death.
Mr. Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is the case of a bill, purporting to be a bill of review. The
substantial facts, a they appear on the record, are as follows: Ga:briel J. Johnson being the owner in remainder of a five acre lot,

12

SUPREME COURT.
[Whiting et at. vs. The Bank of the United States.J

No. 9, in Louisville, Kentucky, of which his mother, Enfield Johm
son, was tenant for life, under the will of his father, and being als6
the owner in fee, by another title, of another piece of land adjoining
the five acre lot, (a part of the slip No. 2,) on the 12th day of November, A. D. 1818, conveyed the same in mortgage to James D.
Breckenridge, to secure the latter for his endorsements of three certain notes of Johnson to Ruggles Whiting, each for four thousand
dollars, and for any other notes and contracts which Breckenridge
should thereafter make, execute, accept, or endorse, for the benefit
of Johnson. Afterwards, on the 9th day of August, A. D. 1820,
Johnson, and Breckenridge, as his surety, being indebted to the Bank
of the United States in the sum of nine thousand nine hundred and
thirty-one dollars and thirty-seven cents, arrangements were made
between them and Whiting, by which Whiting assumed the payment of the same debt, and gave his note therefor to the bank accordingly; and as security for the due payment thereof, Johnson
and his mother, Enfield Johnson, Breckenridge, and Whiting, on the
same day executed a mortgage of the five acre lot and slip of land
above mentioned, to the Bank of the United States, reciting, among
other things, the foregoing arrangement.
The condition of the mortgage, among other things, stated, that
it was agreed by the parties, that after the satisfaction of the said
demands due by Whiting to the bank, and by Gabriel- J. Johnson to
Whiting, the estate, or the residue thereof, or any surplus, if money,
by the sale thereof, should be paid or conveyed to Enfield Johnson
or her assigns. The mortgage also contained a stipulation for the
sale of the premises, to meet the payment of the debt due to the
bank. In April, 1823, the debt due and thus secured to the bank
remaining unpaid, a bill for a foreclosure and sale was brought by
the bank, in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Kentucky; and to that bill, Gabriel J. Johnson, Enfield Johnson,
and Whiting were made parties. But Breckenridge was not made
a party. At the November term of the Circuit Court, A. D. 1826,
a decree of foreclosure of all the equity or right of redemption of
the defendants in the mortgaged premises was passed; ana a further
decree, that the premises should be sold by commissioners. The sale
took place accordingly; the bank became the purchasers; and the
sale was confirmed by the Circuit Court, at the May term, 1827. In
the intermediate time between the original decree of foreclosure and
the sale, viz., on the 26th of February, 1827, Whiting died in Massachusetts, leaving the plaintiffs in the present bill, Paulina Whiting,
and Helen B. Whiting, and one L. R. Whiting (since dead without
issue) his children and heirs at law; who were then infants under
age; and the youngest, Helen, did not come of age until 1831.
The present bill is brought by Paulina Whiting and Helen B.
Whiting, by James Richardson, administrator of Ruggles Whiting,
and by.Gabriel J. Johnson and Enfield Johnson, against the Bank
of the United States; and after stating the proceedings in the original suit upon the mortgage, and that the sale was made at a great

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

13

[Whiting et al. vs. The Bank of the United States.]

sacrifice of the property, it relies on the following grounds of error
in the proceedings, decree, and sale in the original suit. 1. That it
was irregular and 6rroneous to entertain the bill and pronounce the
decree for foreclosure and sale, without Breckenridge being made a
party defendant. 2. That it was irregular and erroneous to sell the
property mortgaged, without a revival of the suit against the heirs
of Whiting. 3. That it was unjust and oppressive to sell in the
manner and at the price'when the sale took place.
The answer of the bank denies all equity in the plaintiffs, and insists that the decree and sale were fair and just. It also denies that
Whiting or Breckenridge had any title to the property; and insists
that they joined in the mortgage merely to complete the arrangements made between Johnson and themselves. It also denies that
the death of Whiting was known at the time of the sale. It states
that the property was, after the purchase by the bank, improved,
and parts thereof sold to bona fide purchasers for valuable considerations; and by reason of the improvements and the extension of the
city, parts of the grounds so sold are now among the most beautiful
and densely built parts of the city. The answer also states, tha'
Whiting died insolvent and deeply indebted to the bank, by certain
other judgments and notes.
Such are the material facts and statements in the case, and upon
them, so far at least as the present bill of review is concerned, there
is no controversy between the parties. The prayer of the bill is,
that the proceedings may be revived, (as the word stands on the
record, probably by mistake, for reviewed;) and that the decrees and,
sale may be set aside, that thQ plaintiffs may be permitted to redeem 4
and for other relief.
Some suggestions have been made as to the nature and character
of the present bill-whether it is to be treated as a bill"of review,
or what other is its appropriate denomination. As the original decree, which it seeks to review, was properly, according to our course
of practice, to be deemed recorded and enrolled as of the term in
Which the final decree was passed, it is certainly a bill of review in
contradistinction to a bill in the nature of a bill of review 'which
latter bill lies only when there has been no enrollment of the decree.
Being a bill brought by the original parties and their privies in representation, it is also properly a bill of review in contradistinction
to an original bill in the nature of a bill of review; which latter bill
brings forward the interests affected by the decree other than those
which are founded in privity of representation. The present bill
seeks to revive the suit by introducing the heirs of Whiting before
the Court; and so far it has the character of a bill of revivor. It
seeks albo to state a new fact, viz., the death of Whiting, before the
sale; and so far it is supplementary. It is, therefore, a compound
bill of review, of supplement, and of revivor; and it is entirely
maintainable as such, if it presents facts which go to the merits of
the original decree of foreclosure and sale.
It has also been suggested at the bar, that no bill of review lies
Vol. XIII.-B

14

StYIREME COURT.
(Whitlng et al.vs. The Bank of the Thied States.)

for errors of law, except where such evror&4re apparent on the face
of the decree of the Court. That is true in the sense in which the
language is used in the English practice. In England, the decree
always recites the substance of the bill and answer and pleadings,
and i1so the facts on which the Court founds its decree. But in America the decree does not ordinarily recite either the bill, or answer,
or pleadings; and generally not the facts, on which the decree is
founded. But with us the bill, answer, and other pleadings, together
with the decree, constitute what is properly considered as the record.
And, therefore, in truth, the rule in each country is precisely the
same, in legal effect; althofigh expressed in different language; viz.,
that the bill of review must be founded on some error apparent
upon the bill, answer, and other pleadings, and decree; and that you
are not at liberty to go into the evidence at large in order to establish an objection to the decree, founded on the supposed mistake
of the Court in its own deductions from the evidence.
Having made these explanations, which seemed proper with reference to the arguments pressed at the bar, we may now return to
the consideration of the direcV points presented for the consideration
of the Court. The third and last error 'relied on in the bill, has
been abandoned at the argument; and therefore it need not be examined. The other two remain to be disposed of. And first, as to
the supposed error in not making Breckenridge a party to the original bill. Assuming that he was a proper party to that bill, still it
is to be considered, that it was an objection which ought properly
to have been taken by the present parties at the original hearing, or
upon the appeal (if any) before the appellate Court. And upon a
bill of review it cannot properly be relied on as matter of error,
unless it can be shown that the nonjoinder has operated as an injury
or mischief to the rights of the present plaintiffs., No such injury
or mischief has been shown or is pretended. Breckenridge is not
bound by the original decree, because he was no party thereto ; and,
therefore, his interests cannotbe prejudiced thereby. But if theywere,
he, and he alone, has a right to complain, and to seek redress from
the Court; and not the plaintiffs, who are not his representatives, or
entrusted with the vindication of his rights. Breckenridge has made
no complaint and sought no redress. ,We,
think, therefore, that this
error, if any there be, not being to the prejudice of the plaintiffs,
cannot furnish any ground for them to maintain the present bill; for
no party to a decree can, by the general principles of equity,. claim
a reversal of a decree upon a bill of review,' unless he has been ag,
grieved by it; whatever may have been his rights to insist on the
error at the original hearing, or on an appeal.'
In the next place, as to the sale of the mortga'ged premises after
the death of Whiting, without a, revival of the suit against his heirs.
It is not even pretended in the bill of review, that there was any
fraud in the sale; nor upon the argument has any irregularity even
been-insisted on. What then is the.gravamen? That the land was
sold honestly and fairly, but for'a less price than its real value.

JANUARY TER%, ISM.
(Whiting efl

15

v. The Bank of the United Stim]l

Now, such an objectior%een in the nioifth of Whiting himself, if
he had been living, wouid have constituted no valid objection to
the sale, or the confirmation thereof; but at most would have furnished only a motive to induce the Court, in its discretio, 'to have
ordered a resale, or to have opened the biddings. It would be no
matter of error whatever. If this be a correct view of the subject,
it is plain that the heirs of Whiting cainot be entitled to be put in
a better predicament than Whiting himself; and no decree in equity
ought to be reversed for matter of mere favour, and not of right.
But is the objection itself, in principle, well founded? That depends upon this; whether the decree of foreclosure and sale is to be
considered as the final decree in. the sense of a Court of Equity,
and the proceedings on that decree a mere mode of enforcing the
rights of the creditor, and for the benefit of the debtor; or whether
the decree is to be deemed final 6nly after the return and confirmation of the sale by a decretal order of the Court. We are of opinion
that the former is the true view of the matter. - The original decree
of foreclosure .and sale was final upon the merits of the controversy. The defendants had a right to appeal from that decree, as
final upon those merits, as soon as it was pronounced, in order to
prevent an irreparable mischief to themselves. For, if the sale had
been completed under the decree, the title of the'purchaser under
the decree would not have been overthrown, or invalidated even
by a reversal of the decree; and consequently the title of the defendants to the lands would have been extinguished; and their redress upon the reversal would have been of a different sort from
that of a restitution of the land sold. In Ray vs. Law, (3 Cranch
R. 179,) it was held by this Court, that a decree of sale of mortgaged premises, was a final decree in the sense of the Act of Congress, upon whi, - an appeal would lie to the Supreme Court. This
decision must have been made upon the general ground, thai a decree, final upon the merits of the controversy between the parties,
is a decree upon which a bill of review would lie, without and independent of any ulterior proceedings. Indeed, the ulterior- proceedings are but a mode of executing Ihe original decree, like the
award of an execution at law. If this be the true view of the present decree, and the proceedings thereon, then it is plain that this
bill of review is not maintainable for two reasons, each of which
is -equally conclusive. The first is, t,4at no error is shown in the
original decree, for the only pretended error is in the sale under
the decree. The second is, that this bill of review was not
brought within five years after the original decree was rendered in
the lifetime of Whiting; and the statute of limitations, having once
begun to run, cannot be stopped by any subsequent intervening disabilities.
If, then, the original decree was unobjectionable and conclusive;
if there has been no fraud in the subsequent sale, pursuant to that
decree; and if there has been, in a legal sense, no prejudice to
any rights of the plaintiffs in the original decree, or the sale, then,

16

SUPREME COURT.
[Whiting et al. vs. The Bank of the United States.]

although there was no revivor before the sale, there is no error upon
which a bill of review will lie to entitle the parties to a reversal.
We do not say whether the Circuit Court might or might not in its
discretion have required a revival of the suit before the sale was
confirmed, if the fact of the death of Whiting had been distinctly
brought to its knowledge. But we do mean to say, that the nonrevival was not matter of error, for which the proceeding on the
sale under the original decree, (for that is all which the present bill
seeks to redress,) can or ought to be reversed.
The decree of the Circuit Circuit dismissing the bill, is, therefore,
affirned with costs.
This cause came on to be heard on. the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Kentucky, anl was argaed by counsel. On consideration whereof, it
is now here ordered and decreed by this Court that the decree of
the said Circuit Court in this cause be, and the same is hereby
affirmed with costs.

