JANUARY TERM, 1839.

359

BENJAMIN STORY, APPELLA-NT, vs. LOUisA 'LIVINXSTON, EXECUTRIX
oF EDWARD LIVINGSTON, APPELLEtE.
Chancery. Strictly, in Chancery practice, though it'is different in some of the states of the
Union, no exceptions to a master's report can be made, which were not taken before the
master; the object being to save time, and to give him an opportunity'to correct his errors
or to reconsider his opinions. A party neglecting to bring in exceptlonsabefore Ihemolt,
cannot afterwards except to the report; unless the Court, on motion, see reason to be de
satisfied with the report, and refer it to the master to ro-examine it, with liberty to the
party to make objections to it.
Exceptions to the report of a master must state, article by article, the parts of the report
which are intended to be excepted to.
Exceptiois to the report of a master, in Chancery proceedings, are in the nature of a special
demurrer, and the party objecting must.point out the errors; otherwise, the parts not excepted to will be token as admitted.
In a reference to a masLer for any purpose, the order need not particularly empower him to
take testimony, if the subject matter is only to be ascertained by evidence. And in taking
evidence, although the better plan is to take the answers in writing, upon written interrogatories, he may examine witnesses viva vue; the parties to the suit being present, personally, or by counsel, and not objecting to such a course.
The twenty-eighth rule prescribed for the practice of Courts of equity of the Uited States,
provides for bringing witnesses before the master for their compensation; for attachments;
for a contempt, when witnesses refuse to appear on a subpoena. and the last clause allows
the examination of witnesses, viva voce, when produced in open Court. The same reasons which allow it to be done in open Court,'permit it to.be done by a master.
The allowance of costs is a matter of practice, which need not be a part of the decree or
judgment of the Court, although it often is so; as the payment of costs is, in most cases,
made to depend upon the rules; and whIen rules do not apply, upon the Court's order In
directing the taxation of costs.
If any rule has been made by the District Court of Louisiana, abolishing chancery prac.
ice in that Court, it is a violation of those rules which the Supreme Court of the United
States has passed to regulate the Courts of equity of the United States. Those rulesare as obligatory on the Courts of the United States in Louisiana, as they are upon all
other Courts of the United States: and the only modifications or, additions which can
,be made by the Circuit or District Courts,-are such ashai| not be inconsistent with the
rules prescribed. When the rules prescribed by the Supreme Court do not apply, the
practice of the Circuit and District Courts shall be regulated by the practice of the High
Court of Chancery in England.
The Supreme Court has said, upon more than one occasion, after mature deliberation upon
able arguments of distinguished counsel against it, that the Courts of the United States
in Louisiana possess equity powers under the Constitution and laws of the United States.
That if there are any laws in Louisiana directing the mode of procedure in equity
causes, they are adopted by the act of 26th May, 1829 ; and will govern the practice in
the Courts of the United States, But if there are no laws regulating the practice in
equity causes, the rules of chancery practice in Louisiana, mean the rules prescribed by
the Supreme Court for the government of the Courts of the United States, under the
act of Congres§ of May 8, 1792.
The correct rule as to interest is, that the creditor shall ealculate interest, henever a payment is made. To this extent the payment is first to be applied, and if it exceed the
interest; due, the balance is to be applied to diminish the principal. This rule is equally
applicable, whether the debt be one which expressly draws interest, or on which interest
is given as damages.
The mandate issued by the Supreme Court, in a case decided by the Court, is to be interpreted according the subject matter; and it is in no manner to cause injustice.'
The general rule in Chancery proceedings is, that all persons materially interested in a
suit ought to be parties to it either as plaintiffs or-defendants, that a complete decree
may be made between these parties. But there are exceptions to this rule, and one of

360

SUPREME COURT.

[Story v8. Livingston.]
them is, when a decree in relation to the subject Matter in litigation an be made, without a person having his interest in any way concluded by the decree.
When a complainant omits to bring before the Court persons who are necessary parties,
but the objection does not appea4 on the face of the bill, the proper mode tb take advantage of it is by plea and answer. The objection of misjoinder of complainants should
be taken either by demurrer, or on the answer of the defendants. It is too late to urge a
time, at the hearing.
formal objection of the kind, for the first

APPEAL from the District Court of the United States, for the
eastern district-of Louisiana.
On the second of March, 1837, the following decree of the Supxreme Court df the United States, was produced in open Court, in
the District Court of the United States, for the eastern district of
Louisiana. The cause had been taken by Mrs. Livingston, executrix,
by appeal to the Supreme Court, and the decree of the District. Court
reversed. 11 Peters, 351.
.. This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the District Court of the United States, for the eastern district
of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof,
it is ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that thedecree of the said District Court dismissing the bill of the complainant, be, and the same
is hereby, reversed and annulled; the court being of opinon that the
transaction of the 25th July, 1822, between John A. Fort, Benjamin Story, P .d Edward' Livingston, was- a loan to the said Edward
Livingston, secured by a pledge denominated an antechrisis in the
law of Louisiana. And it is hereby further ordered, adjudged, and
decreed, that the cause be sent back for further proceedings in the
Court below, with directions that the cause be referred to a master
to take an iccodnt between he parties. And it is hereby further
ordered, adjudged, and dezreed, that in taking said account, there be
allowed to the defendant all advances Which shall be shown to have
been- made by him, or paid on account of a loan made to Edward
•Livingston,. on the 25th day of July, in the year 1822, with the interest, *hich the said Edward Livingston agreed to pay of eighteen
per cent. per annum, to be calculated upon cash advances, from thetime it was made until the 5th of August, 1823, and after that time
at Iegal interest; and further, that in taking said account there be
allowed to the defendant all reasonable expenditures made by'the
defendanti and John A. Fort, in building, repairing, and safe- keeping of the property pledged by the said Edward Livingston, .to secure the loan made to. him bin the 25th day .of July, 1822; and that
the complainant be credited in such account with all such sums as
the defendant, or John A. Fort, Idt either of them, have received
from the said property ; and that in taking such account, the rents
and profits be applied, first, to the -payment of the sums necessarily
incurred in building and repairing': secondly, to the payment of the
interest on the sums which shall appear to have been advanced on
the said loan, or in the improvement of the lot: and, thirdly, to the
discharge of the principal of the said loan. And if, on taking said
account, it shall appear that there is a balance due from the complain-

JA4UARY TERM, 1839

361

[Story vs. Livingston.)

ant, it is hereby-further 'ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that the
defendant pay to the complainant such balance within six months
from the time of entering the final decree in the cause, and shall surrender and reconvey the said property to the complainant, or such
person or persons as shall be shown to be entitled to the same; and
if upon the taking of said account, it shall be found that any balance
is due from the estate of the said Edward Livingston, deceased, to
the defendants, it is hereby further ordered. adjudged, and decreed,
that on paying, or tendering to the defendant the said balance, he
shal deliver up the possession, and reconvey to the person or persons who shall appear to be entitled to the same, the property so
pledged to secure the aforesaid'loan. And it is further ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that in case a balance shall be found, due to
the defendant, and shall not be paid within six month- after a final
decree of the District Court upon the master's report, then the property shall be sold, by order of the District Court, at such time and
notice as the said Court shall direct; and that the proceeds be first
applied to the payment of the balance due the defendant- and the
residue thereof tQ be paid to the complainant."
The mandate of the :Supreme Court, conforming to this decree,
was filed in the DistrictCourt by the counsel for Mrs. Livingston,
and by an order of the District Court, the' case was referred to a
master in equity, Duncan N. Hennen,_Esq., to examine into and report upon the -account, according to the principles and rules established on the judgment of the Supreme Court.
'Various proceedings took place in the District Court, after the
order of reference to the master for an account.
The counsel for the: defendant moved to strike from the docket,
the complainant's suit because,.
1. Edward, Livingston, the former complaihant herein, departed
,this life on the
day of
and before the hearing of
this cause in this Court at the spring term thereof, in 1836.
2. The said Livingston departed this life before the making or
enrolment of the decree herein at the spring term of the year 1836;
consequently the Court could not then entertain any jurisdiction of
the cause.
3. This" cause has nevet been regularly revived in the name of
the present complainant-nor could it be so revived by the laws ind
usages of charcery, the complainant claiming as a devisee.
On the -18th of December, 1837, the District Court, after argument overruled this motion.
,On the samd day, the report of the master- was filed. This report contained, at large, all the evidence produced before the master;
with an account, by Which a balance of thirty-two thousand nine
hundred and fifty-eight dollars and eighteen cents, was found due
by Benjamin Story, to Mrs. Livingston, executrix, on the- first of
November, 1837.
1On the second of January, 1838, exceptions to the master's report
were filed by Mr. Story.
VOL. XII.-2 H

46

$62

SUPREME COURT.
tStory 9g. Livingston.]

1. Becase chancery practice has been abolished b a rule of this
Cpurt, and&such proceeding is unknown to the practice of the Court.
2 The master has erred iA not -allowing to the defendant the
thousand dollars, with interest, paid to Morse, or some part theieof.
3d. -The master's report does not show, that it reports all the evidence taken before the master.
.4.The master, in making his estimates and calculations, has
not pursued the mandate of the Court.
5. It 'appears, from -the master's report, that the stores were
rented from NoVember to November; and he erred in assuming the
1st April as the period of payment of annual rent.
6. A reasonable allowance should have been made to Story for
the costs and risk of collecting the reats.
7. The master erred in all his charges against the 'defendant,
and failed to allow the defendant his proper credits.
These exceptions were overruled by the District Court, and the
Court decreed that Benjamin Story'do pay to the complainant the
sum of thirty-two thousand nine hundred and fifty-eight dollars and
eighteen cents; and that the master's report be, in all other respects
confirmed: and that the defendant conform to the decree of the Supreme Court. in this case.
A petition for a rehearing was afterwards presented tb the I)istrict Court, by the counsel for the defendantj which, after argument,
was overruled; and the District Court made the following decree:
"The petition for a rehearing having been oveiruled, it is ordered,
udjudged and decreed, that the defendant, Benjamin Story, do further surrender and reconvey the property described in the bill of
complaint as 'all that parcel of ground situated on the batture of
the suburb St. Mary, between Common and Gravier streets, meaSuring eighty-two feet fronting Common street; one hundred and
twenty-six feet, or thereabouts, fronting Tchaptoulas street, one hundred and forty-six feet, or thereabouts, fronting New Levee street, and
bounded on the other side by the lot of ground belonging to Messrs.
Livermore, Morse, Miller and Pierce, containing one hundred and
twenty feet, or thereabouts; together with the buildings, improvementsy and all other appurtenances to the same in any wise'belonging or appertaining,' to Louise Livingston, widow and executrix
and devisee of Ed. Livingston, deceased, and to Cora Barton, daugh-ter, and fdrced heir of said Ed. Livingston; in conformity to the decree of the Supreme Court of the United States, and to the decree
heretofore tnade in pursuance thereof by this Court."
The case having been transferred to the Circuit Court of the
United States, for the ninth Circuit, and eastern district of Louisiana; the defendant prosecuted this appeal.
The case was argued by Mr. Crittenden and Mr. Jones, foi the
appellant; and by Mr. Ogden, and Mr. Butler, with whom was Mr.
Key, for the appellee.
The counsel fox the appellant stated that the great object of the

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

363

[Story vs. Livfngston.]

appellant was to lirinR before the Court of Louisiana; the fact of
the decease of Mr. Livingston, before the decree of the Court wag
rendered. They had offered proof 6f this, and it was rejected. A
supplementary bill was filed for the purpose of introducing this fact,
and this was refused a hearing in the District Court, then having
the cause before it. A mandamus was then asked of this Court,
for the purpose of having the matter presented in the supplement ary
bill heard, which was refused. 12 Peters, 339.
It was contended that the death of Mr. Livingston, before the
decree from which the appeal was originally taken, had made all
the proceedings on that appeal irregular and void; and the case
ought now to be open to a re-examination on all of its merits,
The right of the executrix, after the decease of thetestator,'was
to revive the suit. This should have been done, but she could not
prosecute An appeal, as she had done, (11 Pet.rs, 3.51,) without
having previously revived the suit.
IThe question is, whether the rhandate of this CoLirt, in the
appeal decided in 1837, (11 Peters, 351,) could be executed with-

out their being proper and legal Parties to the case. It is admittpd
that the principles of the ase have been settled in this Court; but
it is claimed that Mrs. Livingston was not a. proper party to ask for
an account, in the Circuit Court.
Upon the death of Mr. Livingston, there was an entite suspension of the contest; and the executrix had no right to proceed in the
mode she had proceeded. She, as executrix, could no have aright
to an account of the rents of the estate in controversy, after the decease of the testator. The decree could not have intended this.
The report should have stated the amount to which Mr. Livingston
was entitled; and the-amount which belonged to the devisees under
-he will. The devisees were, Mrs. Livingston, and Mrs. Cora
Barton.
The Court have decreed that the property shall be conveyed to
the persons entitled to it, ander the will of Mr. Livingston. The
only mode by which this could have been done was by a bill of
revivor, showing who the heirs, or persons entitled were,
IAdvantage of the defect of proper parties, cadl be taken at any
time, when discovered. This is clearly a case in-which, from want
of parties, the Court are to decree to the personal representatiye,
the property of the devisees under the will.
Mr. Ogden and Mr. Butler, for the appellee.
1. The merits of this cause having been fully disposed of by the
decree of this Court, rendered in February, 1837, and the mandate
issued thereon requiring only the execution of that decree, the
Court below was bound to carry the decree into effect; and therefore decided correctly in overruling the motion to strike the cause
from the docket, and in refusing to hear testimony as to the period
of the death of"Edward Livingston., - The right and capacity of
Mrs. Livingston, as executrix, to proceed in the cause, and her title

364

SUPREME COURT.
[Story v. Livingston.]

-

to recover the moneys found due from the defendant, are also settled
by the mandate.
2. Independently of the effect of the mandate, the defendant, by
proceeding in the reference, and by not objecting to the sufficiency
of the revivor of the cause, until after the reference was, closed; was
estopped from making any such objection.
3. The exceptions to the master's report, embraced in the decree
of the 16th of January, 1838, were .correctly overruled.
4. The petition for a rehearing was properly denied; and the decree thereon is not the subject of an appeal.
5. There is no error in the decrees appealed from.
Mr. Justice WAYN. delivered the opinion of. the. Court.
This cause having been before this Court at its term in 1837, it
was then decreed, that the decree of the District Court, dismissing
the bill of the complainant, should be reversed; that the cause
should be -sent back for further proceedings in the Court below,
with directions that it should 'be referred to a master, to take an
acQunt between the parties. The mandate then recites the principles upon which the account was to be made.; provides the time
within which any sum that may be found to be due to either'of the
parties should be paid after the entry .ofa final decree in the Court
below; directs, if a sum shall be found due to the complainant, a
surrender and reconveyance of the property fro~m the defendant to
the complainant, or to such person or persons bs shall be shown entitled to the same ; and further orders, in the event of a sum being
found to be due to the defendant, if it shall not be paid within six
months after a final decree of the District Court upon the master's
report, that the property shall be Sold by order of the District Court,
at s4ch time and iiotice as the Court shall direct; and that the proceeds b first applied to the payment of the balance due the defendant, and that the residue thereof be paid to the complainant.
In pursuance of the mandate, the District Court appointed Duncan
N. Hennen master, to examine into ando report upon the account
according to the rules, and principles established in the judgment of
this Court. The master was sworn .inopen Court, faithfully to perform the duties of his appointment. On 'the same day the master
ordered a-meeting to be held on the 6th of March, which was adjourned to the 8th; when he commenced, the reference by taking
testimony in behalf of the'complainant, and it was adjourned to the
next day.. . The meeting was then adjourned to the 24th March,
when other testimony was taken; was then adjourned to the 1st
,April; thence, on the application of the defendant, was adjourned
to the 15th April, and the reference was closed the day after. All
the meetings were attended by the -parties; the complainant being
represented by counsel, and the defendant having been personally
present, aided by counsel. After these proceedings were had, the
defendant's counsel) in November following, obtained an order from
the. Court upon the cofiiplainant, to show cause why the "suit

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

365

[Story ,v. Livingston.]

should not be stricken from the docket, the bill of the complainant
dismissed, or the suit abated ;" which rule was returnable on the
1st December. The grounds relied upon to sustain this motion
were, 1. That Edward Livingston,'the former complainant, departed
this life on
day of
and before the hearing of the cause
in this Court, at the spring term thereof in 1836.
2. The said Livingston departed this life before the making or
enrolment of the decree at the spring term of the year 1836; consequently the Court could not then entertain any jurisdiction of the
cause.
3. This cause has never been regularly'revived in the name of tfie
present complainant; nor could it be so revived by the laws and
usages of chancery practice, Mrs. Livingston claiming as a devisee.
This rule was continued from time to time under sundry orders of the
Court, until the 18th of December, when the Court rejected and overrulc I the motion. This motion we have noticed, not only because it
was a singular. attempt to oust the jurisdiction of the Court over the
cause, after it had been decided on its merits in the Supreme Court,

and the, Court below was acting under its mandate; but, because
from the time when it was made, and when the rule was granted,
the defendant having not before objected -to the reference to 'the
master, and having joined in all the proceedings under that reference; it cannot be, viewed in any other light than an attempt to prevent the master's report from being returned to the Court, instead.
of contesting its conclusion, and the master's proceedings under the
mandate, by regular exceptions. It presents an, anomaly without
any parallel in the history of chancery proceedings'; placing an inferior tribunal, hcting under the mandate of a superior, in the attitude of reversing the judgment of the latter-calling upon it to disregard-the mandate altogether-to revokeits own proceedings under
such mandate-and, in effect, to, act in contradiction to the sole authority by which the District Court was in possession of. the cause.
.But the motion being overruled, on the same'day the master presented his report to the Court, which was read and filed. The following exceptions were then made to the report 'of the master by
the defendant:1. That chancery practice has been abolished by a rule of the
Court, and such proceeding is unknown to the practice of the Court.
2. The master -has-erred in not allowing to the defendant the
thousand dollars, with interest, paid to Morse, or some part thereof.
3. The master's report does not show that it reports all the evidence taken before the master.
4. The master, in making his estimates and calculations, has not
pursued
the .- andate of the Court.
5. It appears,
from the. master's report, that the stores
were rented
from November to November; and he erred in assuming the 1st of
April as the period of payment of annual rent.
6. A reasonable allowance should have been made to Story for
the costs and risk of collecting rents.

366

SUP'REME COURT.
[Story vs. Livihgston. ]

7. The. master erred in all his charges against the defendant; and
failed to allow the defendant his proper credits.
All of these exceptions, except the third, are irregularly taken, and
might -be disposed of by- us, without any examination -of them in
connexion with the master's report. They are too general ; indicate
nothing but dissatisfaction with 'the entire report; and furnish no
specific grounds, as they should have done, wherein'the defendgnt
has suffered any wrong, or as to which 'of his rights have been disregarded. Strictly, in chancery practice, though it 'is different in
some of our states, no e:ceptions to a master's report can be made,
which were not taken before the master: the object being to save
time, and to give him an opportunity to correct his errors or reconsider his opinion. 'Dick. 103. A party neglecting to bring in objections, cannot afterwards except to the report, Harr. Ch. 479; unless
the Court, on motion, see reason to be dissatisfied with the report,
and refer it to the master to review his report, with liberty to, the
party to take oljection to it. 1 Dick, 290. Madd. Rep. 340. 555.
But without restricting exceptions to this course, we must observe,
that exceptions to a report of a master must state, article by article,
those parts of the report which are intended to -be excepted to.
Exceptions to reports of masters in chancery are in the nature 'of
-a special denrurrer; and the party objecting must point out the error,
otherwise the part not excepted to will be taken as admitted.
Wilkes vs. Rogers, 6 Johns. 566.
The Court directed the master to amend his report, so ,as to state
that it contained all the evidence given, under the reference, which
'the master did by his certificate; and this disposes of the defendant's
third exception. To that certificate the defendant's counsel did not
object. Ii. the subsequent proceedings in the Court, upon the report,
'it was treated by both parties as conclusive of the fact; thatall the
evidence had been disclosed in the report as it was originally madeThe report was then before the Court upon exceptions by the defendant, whinh were argued by the counsel of the respective parties; and the Court overruled the exceptions on the 15th January,
and decreed the defendant to pay to the' complainant, within six
months from that day, thirty-two thousand nine hundred and fifty,
eight dollars eighteen cents, the sum found by the master to ,be due
by the defendant to the complainant; and further' "d6creed that
the master's report be in all other respects confirmed, and that tbe
defendant conform to the decr6e of the Supreme Court in the case."
After this decree was made, the defendant filed a petition for a rehearing. The grounds taken' in the petition are reasons against the
confirmation of the report on account of the Court's proceedings
upon it, by which the defendant alleges he had been deprived of an
opportunity to except to the report as it had been amended. That
the cause upon the report had not been docketed regularly for trial,
on account of the master's having taken testimony viva voce, When
it should have beeri by depositions. upon interrogatories; that the
Court in its decree had not disposed of the question of costs; and

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

367

[Story vs. Livingsto]

that the Court in its general direction to the defendant to do all
things directed by the mandate of the Supreme Court, had left it
uncertain to whom the defendant was to surrender and to convey the
property. The Court after this petition had been answered by-the
complainant, heard an argument upon the motion. The judge finally
overruled the application for a rehearing; and decreed thatthe defendant should surrender and reconvey the property described in the
bill of complaint, to Louise Livingston, widow and executrix, and
devisee of Edward Livingston, deceased, and to Cora Barton,
daughter and forced heir of said Edward Livingston; in conformity
to the decree of the Supreme Court of the United States, and to the
decree heretofore made, in pursuance thereof, by this Cofrt. This,
decree was made on the 6th February, 1837. The cause is now
regularly before -this. Court, on an appeal from the decree of the
District Court, overruling the defendant's exceptions to the master's
report, and confirming the same. But before we consider the
exceptions, we think it proper to notice the petition for a rehearing.
Upon any matters in that petition, not directly touching the master's
report, but assuming what this Court did -or did not decide or direct to be done by its mandate, it is only necessary to repeat what
this Court said in ex parte Story, 12 Peters, 343 "The meritg of
the controversy were finally decided by thb Court, and its mandate
to the District Court, require only the execution of its decree." As
to the objection, that the defendant had. not an opportunity to except to the indster's report as it was amended, it is founded upon a
misconception of the fact, for the defendant's third exception, that
the report did not show that it reports the evidence, and the Court
simply allowed the master to certify that it did. If thi- certificate
had not been allowed by the Court, the exception could not have
prevailed, ulimess the several allegations, that the evidence did not
appear in the report, had been accompanied "bya specificatioil of
the particulars in which it was deficient. On such an. exception,
supported by the oath of the party making it, or without oath if the
opposite party joins in the exception without requiring the exception to be veyified by affidavit, the Court would call upon th6 master' to report the evidence. We have-noticed .this exception as a
point of practice. The truth of the exceptions not appearing on the
face of the proceedings, and not being supported by affidavit or
otherwise, the Court cannot notice the exptions. Thompson vs.
O'Daniel, 2 Hawk. Rep. 307.
The next objection in the petition for a rehearing, that the
master, under the order of the Court, did not possess the power to
take testimony; and that if he did possess such power, then it was
irregularly exercised, because it should have been by depositions
upon interrogatories; we nbtice also as points of practice, not now
to be settled, but which have been long since determined. In a
reference to a master for any purpose, the order need not particularly empower him to take testimony, if the subject matter is only
to be ascextained by evidence. And in taking evidence, though

368

SUPREME COURT.

[Story ix. Livihgston.3
the better plan is to take the answers in writing, upon written interrogatories; he may examine witnesses viva voce, the parties to the
suit being present, personally or by counsel, not objecting to such a
course,, (as was the case in this instance,) and 'joining in the examination Suich is the general rule in chancery. In many, if not in
most of the states in this Union, however, it is the. practice for the
master to examine witnesses viva voce, and to take down their answers in writing. But the objection in both its parts is answered
and overruled by the twenty-eighth rule of practice for the Courts
of Equity of the United States. That rule provides for bringing
witnesses before the master, for their compensation, for an attachment
for a,contempt, when a witness refuses to appear upon subpcna;
and the last clause of it, allowing the examination of witnesses viva
vote, when produced in open Court. We think the same reasons
which allow it to be done in open Court, permit it to-be done by a
master. But it is'said, the decree- of the District Court does not
provide for the payment of costs. This too, is a point of practice,
which we rem&rk need not be a part of 'the deciee' or judgment,
though it often is so; as the payment of them in most cases depends
upon rules, and when rules do not apply, upon the Court's order, in
directing the taxation of costs.
We now proceed to examine the exceptions taken by the defendant to the master's report. The first, "That chancery'practice has
been abolished by a -rule uf the District Court of Louisiana, and
that such proceeding is unknown to the practice of the Court," is
not an exception to the report, but a denial of the propriety of the
reference to the master: also, -of the' Court's authority to' make
such a reference under the mandate, and involves the assertion that'
the rule, if any such exist, may control the mandate and set it aside
as a nullity. No such rule appears in the record. If any such
exist, it certainly was disregarded in this instance, (as it should be
in every other by the Court,) or was not deemed applicable to a case
like th6 one before it.' We think the occasion, however, a proper
one for this Court to remark, if any such rule has been made b'y the
District Court in Louisiana, that it is in violation of those rules which
the Supreme Court of the United States has passed, to regulate the
practice in the Courts of Equity of the United States. They are as
obligatory upon the Courts of the United States in Louisiana, as
they axe upon all other United States Cohlrts; and the only modifications or additions which can be made in them by the Circuit' or
District Courts, are such as shall not be inconsistent with the rules
prescribed. Where the rules prescribed by'the-Supreme Court to the.
Circuit Courts do not apply,.the practice of the Circuit and District
Courts shall be regulated bythe practice of the High Court of Chancery in England. The parties to' suits in Louisiana have a right to
the benefitof them; nor can they be denied by any rule or order,
without causing delays, producing unnecessary and oppressiv6 expenses, and in the greater number of instances, an entire denial of
quitable 'rights. This Court has said upon more than one occasiou,

JANUARY

TERM, 1839.

369

[St6ry us. Livingston.]

after mature deliberation upon able arguments of distinguished
counsel against it, that the Courts of the United States in Louisiana
possess equity powers under the Constitution and laws of the United
States: that if there Are any, laws in Louisiana directing the
mode of procedure in equity causes, they are adopted by the act of'
the 26th May, 1824, and will govern the practice in the Courts of
the United States. 9 Peters, 657. But if there are no laws regulating
the practice in equity causes, we repeat What was said at the last
term of this Court, in ex parle Poultney vs. The City of La Fayette,
12 Peters, 474, " That the rules of chancery practice in Louisiana,
mean the rules prescribed by this Court for the government of the
Courts of the United States, under the act of Congress of May 8th,
1792, chapter 137, section 2. These rules recognise the appoiutnent

of a master': the Court below in making this reference, acted under
them, and the mandate, and, it could not, therefore; sustain the exception to the master's report. On the second exception, we need
only remark, that the master apprehended rightly the decision and
mandate of the Court. The payment to Morse by the defendant
was not considered an expenditure on account of the property, nor
on account of Livingston. It was intended to be excluded from
the credits to which the defendant was entitled.
The third exception has been already disposed of. It was only a
permission to the master to certify that his report contained all the
evidence taken under the reference.
The fourth and seventh exceptions, on account of their generality
and indefiniteness, may be considered in connexion. The first of
them is, that the master, in making his estimates and calculations, has
not pursued the mandate of the Court; and the seventh is, that the
master erred in all his charges against the defendant, andfailed to
allow the defendant his proper credits. In what particular the mandate has not been pursued, is not stated. It is a general objection
to the whole report, imputing to the master a misconception of the
principles upon which the account was to be taken; and amounts
to this, that if the Court shall see upon the face of the report
and the master's proceedings, error against the defendant, it Will
coirect it, though no exception has been filed. In this view of it,
the defendant shall be protected, if the Court shall detect error in
the report. As to error in charges, and a denial of proper credits to
the defendant, we remark, that without some specification of erroneous charge; and of disallowed credit, it is impossible to determine
what the defendant objects to as a charge, or claims as a credit.
Was any credit refused which was claimed, except that of the $ 1000
to Morse? That, we have said, was rightly refused. Was he not
allowed all other credits on. the general account of expenditures?
Did the defendant, whilst the reference was in progress, or after the
report upon it was made, claim any credit by the .exhibition of any
account? Did, he ask to introduce -any evidence to the master in
support of any credit? Did he claim any other credit than such as
are to be found in the account, giving, on his own oath, a statement
47

SUPREME COURT.
[Story vs. Livingston.]

of his expenditures, and of the rents of the property, from 10th
August, 1822, to the 26th January, i829? Nothing of the kind appears. On the contrary, there is in the report, a statement by the
master, which is conclusive of the' fact. as it has not been denied,
that the defendant, though repeatedly called upon, and after having
repeatedly promised to give an account, and having had five weeks
to furnish it, refused to give any account.
The parties were summoned to the refetence, by the master, on the
6th of March. On the Sth, the defendant, Story, appeared in person, accompanied by counsel. Upon his suggestion, however, that
one of his counsel was absent from the city, and that he had been
so much occupied as not to have had leisure to complete his account,
with his request that the hearing should be postponed, though it was
opposed by the complainant's counsel, the master adjourned the reference to give the defendant time tb furnish his account, and to surcharge the account of the expenditures and rents up to the last of
*January, 1829. The right to correct any err6rs in that account was
,"onceded to him, the account was given in v-vidence subject to such
concession. Two witnesses were then sworn on the part of the
complainant, without objection, and ,were examined by both
parties. The meeting was then adjourned to the next day, the
parties agaii ,attended,,but the witnesses who had been summoned
not being present, the defendant again suggested the propriety of
adjourning for a few days, when he should be ready to present his
account, wbich he had almost ready. It was assented to. The meet,
ing was adjqurned to the 24th of March., On that day, the parties
appeared before the master, a witness was examined on the part of
the complainant, and the defendant again declared he had been prevented 'by important business from completing his account; and he
requested a little more time to make it 'complete. The complainant's
counsel 'consented to an adjournment to the 5th of April. On that
day, the defendant again requested further time; the case was continued to the 15th of April, and then the defendant said, he did not intend to furnish any account; but urged, that as the account of expenditures and rents up to the last of Jafiuary, 1829, had been received
as evidence, that it must be considered as conclusive of the expenditures which had been made on account of the property. This was
allowed to be correct. We have then the refusal of the defendant to
furnish an account, and proof that lie did not claim any other credit
than those in that account. With what propriety can a denial of
credits be urged as an exception to the report? The defendant was
the only person who could furnish an account of the credits to which
he supposed himself to be entitled. He refused to do so. To allow
hirri. to say, there is error in the report in this respect, would permit
him to take advantage of his own wrong, and to defeat the complainant's right by artifice. Nor is the acccunt of expenditures -and
receipts up to the:last of January, 1829, now examinable, (except
as to mere errors in computation,) either as regards the principal
or interest the defendant being concluded by his admission of it,

JANUARY TERM, 1839

.&71

[Siory vs. Livingston.]

when he claimed the expenditures as a set-off against his own statement of the rents.
What has been said of the fourth and seventh exceptions applies
to the fifth, which is, that a reasonable allowance should have been
made to the defendant for the costs and risk of collecting the rents.
.If under the mandate, any such allowance could be made, the claim
for 'it should have been presented to the master suppo:ted by evidence of what was the customary compensation for such services,
if the service is not compensated by a law of Louisiana. A mere
claim for a reasonable allowance cannot give a right to any, and of
course is no valid exception to the-report. It is the case of a party
before a master, who merely claims for general expenses, without
stating particulars. Under such a claim he will be allowed nothing.
Methodist Episc. Ch. vs. Jacques, 3 Johns. Ch. 81.
Six of the exceptions having be-n disposed of, the, seventh only
remains to-be considered. It is, "that it appears from the master's
report,- that the, stores were rented from November to November,,
and he erred in assuming the 1st April as the period of payment of
annual rent," It was said in argument, that computing the phyment
of annual rent in extinguishment of the defendant's debt, on the 1st
April, is in effect to deprive him of interest for a part of the year, as
the aggregate of the rent was not in fact received; that it is to
allow interest upon rents and profits, contrary to the mandate, and
established decisions. This would certainly be so if the -rent had
only been received at the end of the year. But if the rents were
payable at intervals in the year, and were actually so received; and
if the half, or any other portion of the ascertained annual rent shall
extinguish the interest upon the debt when it was received, and
reduce the principal; why should the whole debt continue to draw
interest? Surely, to allow this would be to vary the obligation of
these parties to each other, differently from what would be their
respective rights in any other case of a debt drawing' interest upon
which a payment had been made, which paid the interest and part'
of -the principal. Is there any difference in the effect of a payment,
whether made in person by the debtor, or if it arises from the income
of ,his property.? The- correct -rule in general is, that the creditor
shall calculate interest whenever a payment is made.' To this
interest 'the payment is first to be applied; and' if it. exceed the
interest due, the balance is to be applied to diminish the principal.
If the payment fall short of the interest, the balance of interest is not
to be added to the principal so as to produce interest. This rule is
equally applicable whether the debt-be one which expressly draws
interest, or on which interest is given in the name of damages.
Smith Vs. Shaw's adminis., 2 Wash. (). C. Rep. 167. 3 Cowen,
Note A. 87. This then be..ng the rule,'if the fact is probable in this
case that the income of the property received at any time in the
course of the year did pay interest and a part of principal, the defendant cannot complain ; he' being the redeiver of the money, and
refusing to give any account of the .aggregate, or its parts when re-

$72

SUPREME COURT.
iStry ve. Livigston.]

ceived, if the master has taken a date for the computation of the aggregate rent as payment which places the parties upon an equality.
.Besides, the mandate does not restrict the right of the complainant
to a credit fox the aggregate of the rent at the end of the.year. It
d?.s not allow interest upon the rent, but directs the rents to be ap-

plied to the payment of the sums incurred in building and repairing;
secbnd]y, to the interest on the sums which have been advanced on
the loan, or in the improvement of the lot; and, thirdly, to the
discharge of the principal of the loan. The fair inference from the
silence of the mandate as-to the time when the rents are to be
credited is, that they are to be so when they aie received if the interest and part of the principal are, paid. This is the general rule for
the application of payments, and is the rule of equity which does
substantial justice. .What then is the case of the defendant in this
particular? He has a debt drawing five pe centum interest, yielding annually $1135- 55, and is in.possession of the property of the
complainant, giving a rent annually, after deducting $700 for repairs
and-taxes, of $8000. But, it may be asked, by what means or evidence did the master ascertain the amount of rents, and that they
were paid at such times, and in such amounts, as to-justify the computation of-the annual aggregate as a payment before the expiration
of the year'? First, he must have known that lelises of houses are
not made, either in Louisiana or elsewhere, for the payment of the.
enitire rent' at the end of the year ;'next, he had an account made by
the defendant, verified by his oath, showin--. that'for seven years the
renrts of this property were received by-him, principalfy in monthly
payments; in the year 1828.altogether so; and then, at intervals
of two, three, or four months, in sums over seventeen' hundred dollars up to three thousand. The rents received in January aiil February, 1828, exceeded the amount of interest upon the principal
debtyor loan by six hundred dollars, The rent in'that account,
received on the 26th- 1anuary, 1829, was $950, and the account
states a thousand-as due on the 1st of February, 1829. The amount
of the annual rent the master ascertained from the tenants, who were
witnesses before him, not to 'be less than eight thousand dollars.
Let it be remembered-that the question nor is not whether the defendant shallpay interest upon rents and profits, but the time when
'he shall credit a payment upon the debt which discharges the interest 5nd a part of the principal. His debt was carrying interest,
and therefore his receiving the rents of the property at any time in
a sum sufficient to pay the interest and part of the principal, should
be applied at the date when it was received. The defendant could
not claim an exemptioi from tho operation of this general rule, in
virtue of any relation between himself and the complainant, as
'ustee, bailiff, attorney, or agent of the latter; who was always
ready to pay when calledI upon, who had not mingled-thd rents
with his own money, and not used it as his own, or that it had been
kept on hand to abide the decree of the Court. If he had been in
either of these :attitudes, especially the latter, his own oath, if not

JANUARY TERM,. 1839.

373

[Story vs. Livingston.]

controlled by' other testimony and the circumstances of the case,
would have entitled' him to a continued_ accumulation of interest
upon the debt, without anty credit of the rent, until the final decree
had directed a sum to be paid to the complainant. Under the circumstances of this case, thedefendant refusing to give any account,
yet admitting that he had received the rents, at intervals, in the year;
when we consider such to 'be the usual way of renting houses, he
having agreed that the certificates of the tenants should be received
as evidence of the amount of rents respectively paid-by them-the
tenants having p'roved the amount of the annual rent of the premises-we conclude that the master did right~in assuming an intermediate point:in the year for 'the computation of the annual amount
of rent, in the absence of all proof when its parts were paid; ,and
that it was the fairest way 'of carrying out the substantial intention
of the mandate of this Court. But suppose, as was urged, in argu:
ment, that the mandate had directed an annual application of the rent
of the premises to the payment of the debt 'of the defendant, without specifying that the interest was to be calculated to a date contemporaneous with the last payment of the rent, and the debt was
one carrying interest de die in diem. The mandate' could only be
executed according to the 'eneral rule in the case of such a debt, by
making every receipt 'for rent, in discharge first of the interest, then
of the principal. Raphael vs. Boehm, 11 Vesey, 91.. The mandate
is to be interpreted according to the subject matter to which it has
been applied, and not in. a manner to cause injustice.
This is not like the case of a decree directing annual rents, with
theview of compounding interest. The question now under consideration has been ruled as it is now decided, in Bennington vs. Harwood,
1 Turner and Russell, Ch. Rep. 477, a case upon a master's report of
art account,. under a decree that the master should get aft annual
value by way of rent upon the premises, the mortgagee'being in
possession; the master of the rolls decided, that a mortgagee can
never receive more than his principal and interest; and says, "now
if in the early part of the year a payment is made to him,' exceeding the interest which is then due, and he is nevertheless allowed
interest on the whole of his principal down to the end of the year,
what is the profit'which he derives from his mortgage, in the interval between the date of that payment, iand the date of the annual
rent? It is clear Chat a part of his principal has been repaid to him,
and yet he receives interest upon the whole of it: in other words,
he gets more than five per cent on the sum for which he is actually
a creditor. Suppose that the sum paid to Eadon on the 2d 'February had been equal to the whole of the X500, with the arrears of
interest calculated to that day, 'Would he have Veen entitled to interest up to 'the 5th of July? Is it possible that such should be the
effect of a direction to make annual rents? The sums which a
mortgagee in posse sion receives in respect of the mortgaged' premises, at' times intermediate between the dates of the annual rents,
VOL. XIIL-2 1,

SUPREME COURT.
[Story vs. Livingston.]

mutt be applied, when they exceed interest, to the reduction of the
principal; and in the present case,'that course is clearly prescribed,
by the very words of the decree." Now what was the decree in
Bennington vs. Harwood? It was the usual decree against a mortgagee in possession, containing the common directions, that the master should tax him the costs of suit, and so- set an annual value by
way of rent upon the premises, with further directions that the
sums received in February 1805, were to be applied forthwith, first
to the discharge of the then existing arrear of interest, and next to
the 'diminution of the principal. The master made the rest on the
5th July, instead of doing so in February; and the counsel contended in that case-as counsel have-done in this-that a direction
for annual rents, excludes all rents which are not annual. But that
position was not .sustained by the master of the rolls, on general
principles, though he concludes by saying in the present case, "that
eMurse is clearly prescribed by the words of the decree." The defendant here is substantially a mortgagee in -possession, having a
debt due to him, carrying interest de die in diem; and must abide
the general rule for the application of payments to it.
'this then is not a case in which the defendant has been deprived
of a day's interest bythe master's report, nor one in Which interest
has been allowed upon rents, and profits; but a case in which the
application of a sum received by the creditor, is made to prevent
his whole debt from dgwing interest after a part of it was probably
paid. Of this there is a violent piesumption. The general principle is, as it was ruled in Breckenridge vs. Brooks, 2 A. R. Marsl~al, 341, that a mortgagee in possession is not to pay interest upon
rents; but as the Chief Justi ce said in that case, "We will not say
there may not be special circumstances which would justify allow.ing interest upon rents received by a mortgagee. We-say in this,
that whenever a mortgagee in possession, having a debt due to him,
carrying interest de die in diem, shall collect an amount of rent,
whicli will -extinguish the interest and a part of the principal, that
he is bound so to apply it." In Fenwi hk vs. Macey's executors, 1 Dana
Rep. 286, rents received by a mortgagee were directed tW be applidd as they accrued, to keep down the interest. In Reed ps. Lansdale, Hard. 7, it 'was ruled that the equitable rule in redeeming When
the mortgagee is in possession, is to charge the profits of the mortgaged property against the principal and interest.,
Having thus disposed of the exceptions to the report, and considered the principal argument of counsel against its confirmationt,
we remark that there is nothing on the face of the report adverse
from the defenolants rights which should cause it to be set aside,
Even with the computation of the rents as a credit on the 1st
April, he is still a gaiper'; for the difference- between the calculation
so nia4e, and what would have been'the amount he would have re-,
ceived if the rents ha4 been credited on the 1st November, is more
than compensated by tile Vse 9 f large sumis of money received by

JANUARY TERM,.1839.

375

[Story v8. Livingston.]

him as rent, after the total extinguishment of his debt. - The complainant, however,, took no exception to the report; and it must stand
good against her.
We notice in conclusion an objection to the report urged in .the
defendant's petition for a rehearing, and in the argument of the case.
It is, that the decree of the Court below is inconclusive as to whom
the property is to be reconveyed. This is not an objection which
the defendant can be permitted to urge. When he shall obey the
decree in reconveying and surrendering the property, his responsibility will be at an end. As to the defendant, the decree of the
Court is conclusive against all persons who may legally claim from
him any interest on the property as devisee or heir of Edward Livingston. As to those, the law of Louisiana fixes their respective
rights, and upon those rights, this Court has not, n~r does it intend
to adjudicate in'this cause. The general rule certainly is, that all
persons materially interested in a suit, ought to be parties to: it,
either as plaintiffs or defendants, that a complete, decree may be
made b6tween those parties. Caldwell vs. Taggart, 4 Peters, 190.
But there are exceptions to this rule, aid one of these is, where a
decree in i'elation to the subject matter of litigation can'be made,
without a person .who has an interest, having that interest in any
way concluded by the decree. Bailey vs. Inglee, 2 Paige, 122.
See also, Joy and Wurts, Wash. C. C. R. 577; where the rule is
comprehensiiely expressed, in respect to active and passive parties;
,and where a party is not amenable to the process of the Court or
where no beneficial purpose is to be effected, by making him a party,
such interest must be a right in the subject of controversy which
may be affected by a decree in the suit. Such is the case as to
Cora Barton, in this cause. The subject. matter is to obtain from
the defendant money decreed to be due to Edward Livingston, and
the surrender and reconveyance of property forming a part of the real
estate of Edward Livingston. After his death, his widow, as executrix, was made a party to the bill; and the decree in that suit, canot
in any way determine the rights of Cora Barton in her father's estate, Besides if there was any force in the objection it comes too
late, for where a complainant omits to bring before the Court persons who are necessary parties, but the objection does not appear
upon the face of the bill, the proper mode to take advantage of it,
is by plea or answer. If the objection appears on the face of the
bill, the defendant may demur. Mitchell vs. Lenox, 2 Paige, 280.
The objection of a misjoinder of complainants should be taken
either by demurrers or in the answer 'of the defendants: it is too
late to urge a formal objection of this, kind for the first time at
the hearing. Trustees of Watertown vs. Cowen, 4 Paige, 510.
So also, it was ruled in 3 Paige, 222. We might crowd this
opinion with decisions to the same point, from the English and
American chancery reporters. But further the objection cannot
prevail, for it does not shaw that the process of the Court could
reach Cora Barton. In Mallow vs. Hinde, 12 Wheaton, 193 it was,

SUPREME COURT.
[Story vs. Livingston.]

ruled, that wherever the case may be completely decided as between
the litigant parties, an interest existing in some other person whom the
process of the Court cannot reach, as if such person be a resident
of another state, will not prevent a decree upon the merits. And,
in the same case, it was decided, where an equity cause may be
finally decided as between the parties litigant, without bringing
others before the Court who would generally speaking be necessary
parties, such parties may be dispensed with in the Circuit Court,
if its process cannot reach them; as if they are citizens of another
state. But when the rights of those not before the Court are inseparably connected with the claim of the parties in the suit; the peculiar constitution of the Circuit ,Court is no ground for dispensing
-with such parties. 12 Wheato' 194. In whatever point of view
therefore the objection is considered, whether as to the interest of
Cora Barton in the suit, the time when the objection has been made,
ar the manner in which it is made, in not showing that the process
of the Court could have reached her, is of no moment ir this case.
This Court, in regard to her, only directs her name to be inserted
in 'the reconveyance, it having been ascertained by the master that
she- is a forced heir of Edward Livingston, and that fact being admitted by the defendant, and the admission of its correctness being
the foundation of his objection. The decree of the Court below
affirming the mapter's report, and directing a reconveyance of the
property, is affirmed.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States, for the eastern district
of Louisiana, and was axgued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this Court, that the
decree of the said Circuit Court, in this cause, affirming the master's
report be, and the same is hereby, affirmed. And this Court doth
order adjudge, and decree that the defendant do, on or before the
tenth day of the ensuing term of the said Circuit Court, pay to the
complainant, Louisa Livingston, the sum of thirty-two thousand
nine hundred and fifty-eight dollars and eighteen cents, with interest thereon, at the rate of five per cent. per annum, from the 15th
day of July, 1837, to the time of payment.' And this Court'dotlh
further order, adjudge, and decree, that the said defendant Story, do
on or before the 10th day of the next term of said Circuit Court, by
deed convey to the said Louise Livingston, and Cora Barton, all
the right, title and interest, in and to the premises in controversy,
derived to and acquired by him, by the deed of conveyance made
by the said Edward Livingston, with covenants of warranty against
himself, and his heirs, and all prsons claiming by, through, or under
him, the said Benjamin Story, and that he deliver said deed into
said Court, and that he deliver the possession of the. premises to
said Louisa Livingston, her agent or attorney, on or before the tenth
day of the next term of said Circuit Court. And this cause is remanded to the said Circuit Court wjth instructions to carry this de-

JANUARY TERM, 1839,

377

[Story v8s.Livingston.]

cree into effect. And it is further ordered, adjudged, and decreed,
that said Circuit Court retain this cause upon the docket -for the
purpose of ascertaining, and decreeing the amount of the rents of'
the premises from the first day of November, 1837, to the time
when possession thereof shall be surrendered according to this decree, and with power to make such orders and decrees as may be
'necessary for that purpose, and for the payment 'f the said rents
from the said first day of November, 1837, to the time of the surrender of the possession, with five per cent. interest on the said
rents from the time said rents were received to the payment thereof.
And this Court doth further order, adjudge, and decree, that the
defendant do pay the costs in this Court upon this appeal, and
the costs of the reversal of the decree of the said Circuit Court, by
this Court, at its January term, 1837; and also such costs 6n the proceedings in the said Circuit Court in this cause, as the said Circuit
Court shall tax and order to be paid: and that the said Circuit Court
do issue execution therefor.

2i2

48

