SUPREME COURT.

Ex

PARTE MYRA CLARKE WHITNEY.

The district judge of the eastern district of Louisiana, while holding a Circuit Court, ordered proceedings on a bil]in equity to be in conformity with the rules of the Courts of
Louisiana, thus disregarding the rules for proceedings in the Circuit Courts of the
United States in cases in Chancery, prescribed, and ordered by the Supreme Court of the,
United States. It was also declared that the practice and proceedings in all civil causes,
those of admiralty alone excepted, should be conformable to the provisions of the Code of
Practice of Louisiana, and of the acts of the legislature of the state. Under this order,
and by the course of the Court, the proceedings on the bAil in equity were suspended
and prevented. A motion was made for a mandamus to the Circuit Court, in the nature
of a writ of'procedendo, to compel the Court to proceed in the cause according to the
;ules of practice prescribed to the Courts of equity of the United States &c., to award
attachments, &c., and in all things to proceed in the cause in such manner as the
Constitution and laws of the United States and the principles and usages in equity
will authorize. Held, that this is not a case in which a mandamus will lie., The
appropriate redress, if any, is to be obtained after the final decision shall be had on
the cause, by appeal.
A writ of mandamus is not the appropriate remedy for any errors which may be made in
a cause, by a judge in the exercise of his authority; although they may seem to bear
harshly or oppressively on the party. The remedy in such cases must be' sought, in
some other form.

MR. JONES presented a petition, and moved the Court for a
mandamus -in the nature of a writ of procedendo, to be directed to

the Circuit Court of the United States, for the easterni district of
Louisiana.
Mr. Jones, for petitioner, stated, that William W. Whitney, and

Myra Clarke Whitney, had filed a bill in tlfe District Court of the
United States for the' eastern district of Louisiana, which was afterwards transferred to the Circuit Court. The complainant, William
W. Whitney, having died pendente lite, the suit was continued in
the name of his widow, Myra Clarke Whitney.
The subpoena issued on the bill was served on a number of defendants, and among them on Relf and Chew. The object of the
bill is to recover property devised to the complainant by a will of
Daniel Clarke, in which the complainant, his only child, and heit.at
law, was his general legatee; and Relf and Chew are charged in
the bill with having fraudulently concealed and suppressed this will,
and having set up a prior and revoked will, in which they are
named executors, with plenary powers of disposal and sale over the
real estate of the testator; and they had disposed of the immense
estate, under colour of their office and authority, as executors and
testamentary legatees; whilst the complainant for a time, an. infant
of tender years, was in ignorance of her parentage and true name,
and of his rights. The other dbfendants are charged with combining with Chew and Relf :and with having purchased, and withholding parts of the estate of Daniel Clarke, under sales by Chew and
Reif.
The bill he stated set out a case for the relief of a Court oi

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

405"

[Ex parte Myra Clarke Whitney.]

equity, seeking special and general relief, according to the principles
and course of procedure of a Court of equity. A copy of th "bill
for each and every of 'the defendants, about fifty in number, was
served with the subpccnas.
On the 20th February, 1837, (about two months after the subpcenas
were returned, served,) the two executors, with twenty-five of their
co-defendants, appeared by their respective solicitors, and filed a petition; wherein, stiling themselves respondents, eleven of them say
French is their "mother tongue ;" not that they do*not understand
English as well, and pray, as a precedent condition to their being
held to plead, answer, or demur to the bill, that a copy, in their "maternal language," be served on each and every of them, severally, over
and above the English copies already served. Then, "all the afbresaid respondents (including of course the two executors,) here appearing separately by their respective solicitors, crave oyer" of all
the instruments and papers of every sort mentioned in the bill; but,
"if it be not possible for said complainants to afford these respondents oyer of the originals of said supposed instruments, they then
pray that copies of the same, duly certified according to the laws of
the state of Louisiana, may, by order of this honourable Court, to
said complainants, be filed herein, and served on these respondents,
that they may be enabled to take proper cognizance thereof." The
respondents, more especially, crave oyer of twenty-three of these
instruments enumeiated and specified in a list; referring to the several
clauses of the bill where they are respectively mentioned.
The late Judge Harper, formerly judge of the District Court of
the United States for the eastern district of :Louisiana, "decreed that
the application of the defendants for oyer of the documents and for
copies of the bill in the manner prayed for, be granted ;" and he
ordered, "that all the future proceedings in the case shall be in conformity with the existing practice of the District Court."
I The petitioner, by Mr. Jones, her counsel, stated that the order so
granting the prayers of the petition, in extenso, has ever since stood
a bar against the entrance of the complainant beyond the threshold of justice; the, regular progress of the cause to issue 'has been
arrested, and a hearing indefinitely delayed; unless the precedent
condition, thus arbitrarily and illegally imposed, of a compliance
with all and singular'the requisitions of the respondefits in their petition, be fulfilled to the last tittle.
As if this were not a sufficiently distinct and emphatic renunciation
of the jurisdiction, as well as of the forms and modes of proceeding
appropriate to Courts of equity, the further order, determining "all
future proceedings in the case," is completely tantamount to an unqualified conversion of the case into a suit at law; since "the existing practice" referred to, is no other than a set of rules exclusively
adapted to " suits at law as contradistinguished from equity causes."
The death of Judge Harper occurred between the time of pass
ing this order, and the then ensuing May term, 1837, of his Cour
so that no opportunity was presented of bringing the practical effect

406

SUPREME COURT.
[Ex parte Myra Cjarke Whitney.]

and operation of his order to the test of any motion before him to
enforce the course of procedure prescribed by this Court, upon the
failure of the defendants to answer within three months after return
of subpoenas served. But that test was presented to his successor,
Judge Lawrence, at that term, when the time allowed for answers
had expired more than, two months, without any plea, answer or
demurrer from any of the defendants; and when the option of one
of the three modes, prescribed by this Court as aforesaid, was complete in the complainants, and the right to exercise it absolute. The
complainant then, by way of experiment, moved for an attachment for
answer against the said Richard Relf, one of the defendants returned
duly sttmmoned, which motion the judge virtually overruled; that
is, he refused to pass any order, or take the least notice of it during
that term. Before the next ensuing session of the District Court,
its jurisdiction as a Circuit Court was taken away; and, together
with all the causes then pending within the sphere of that jurisdiction, was transferred to the new created Circuit Court for the same
district, At the first session of that Court, held by Judge Lawrence
alone, in the absence of the circuit judge, the motion for attachment
was again pressed; and the judge not only refused to grant it, but
resisted repeated applications from the complainant's solk itor to have
the motion and his refusal of it recorded among the proceedings of
the Court; he refused to permit any notice whatever to be taken of
the matter in the minutes or procelings of the Court. The clerk
thought it his official duty, sua sponte, to make the proper entries in
his minutes of the proceedings; but on application to the judge was
refused permission.
Judge La -rence, at the same term of the Circuit Court, upon his
sole authority, in the absence of the circuit judge, undertook to
prescribe rules of practise for that Court; and this he did very compendiously, by a general order "that the mode of proceeding in all
'civil calises, (those of admiralty alone excepted,) shall be conformable to the provisions of the Code of Practice of Louisiana, and of
the acts' of the legislature of that state, heretofore passed amendatory thereto."
The counsel for the petitioner further, alleged;
That the burdensome and oppressive exactions put forth by the
respondents in their petition, could have had no other design or tendency but to evade the suit and its legitimate consequences ; and to
wear out and weigh down the complainant by mere vexation and
chicanery, too thinly veiled behind frivolous pretexts, is quite apparent. That *boththe District and Circuit Courts, enforcing those exactions, have flown in the face, and abnegated the authority of the
supreme tribunal expressly appointed by law to regulate their action and control their judgments, is plain and palpable. As little
can the double result be questioned, of a manifest impediment to
the course of public justice, coupled with wrong and oppression to
the individual who now claims, at the hands of this Court, redress
at once of the private and the public wrong, by the vindication

JANUARY TrERM, 1839.

407

[Ex paite Myra Clarke Whitney.I

and maintenance of the cause of public justice Violated, as it is, in
her person.
Mr. Joifes further contended, in support of the motion, that if
this Court have an appellate jurisdiction over the proceedings of the
Circuit Court of Louisiana, they may interpose by a. mandamus to
have done what the Court has a right to correct by 'a writ of mandamus. This may be done ih a case pending, although the Court
will not originate a case by a mandamus.. Cited Marbury vs. Madison, 1 Cranch.
This Court will proceed by a mandamus, when if is necessary to
interpose for the exercise of the appellate power of the Court, and
when there are no other remedies. The issue of a writ of habeas
corpus is on the ground that in no other manner in the case could
the appellate power of the Court be exercised.
The act of Congress refers to the usages which are derived from
the common law; and at common law a mandamus lies to enforce
judicial acts, and to correct judicial errors in inferior Courts.
A niandamus, and a writ of procedendo differ very little, and are
both to enforce the proceedings of Courts. Cited 3 Black Com. 109,
5 Comyn's Dig. 91. As to the difference between judicial and ministerial acts by a Court, the counsel cited 5 Comyn's Dig. 34. 5 Term
Rep. 549.
There is an obvious necessity for a.remedy in this case, The
proceedings of the Circuit Court of Louisiana are entirely suspended;
and by a palpable and flagrant violation of the rules of the Court
in chancery cases, as, prescribed by this Court, and to which the
Circuit Court of Louisiana is bound to conform, the appellate power
of the Court is 'defeated. The case is kept from the final decisioif
of this'Court by the entire disregard of his duties by the judge of
the Circuit Court, and'of rules which he is bound to ehforce.
Mr. Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is the case of a motion made on behalf of Myra Clarke Whitney, for a mandamus to the Circuit Court of the easteri district of
Louisiana. The petition on which the motion is founded states
that a bill in equity is now pending in the said Circuit Court, in'
which the p~titioner is. plaintiff, against Richard Relf and others,
defendants ; that it is understood to be the settled determination of
the district judge not to suffer chancery practice to prevail in the
Circuit Court; that her right to proceed in her suit has been denied,
until she shall, cause copies of her bill in the French language to -be
served upon the defendants or some of them, and until she shall file
documents, which are not made exhibits in the cause; and then that
all further proceedings in the cause shall be in conformity yith the
existing practice of the Court, which existing practice is understood
to mean the practice prevailing in the Court in civil cases generally,
in-disregard of the rules established by the Supreme Court to be
observed in chancery cases. The prayer of the petition is for a
mandamus in the nature of a writ of procedendo, to compel the

408

SUPREME COURT.
[Ex parte Myra Clark Whitney.]

Court to proceed according to-chancery practice, to award an attachment, and compel Relf to answer her bill, and to suffer the petitioner
in all things to proceed in the cause ip such manner as the constitution and laws of the United States, and the principles and usages
in equity will authorize. A copy of the bill, and the orders and
proceedings of the district judge thereon, are presented with the
petition.
That it is the duty of- the Circuit Court to proceed in this suit
according to the rules prescribed by the Supreme Court for proceedings in equity causes at the February term thereof, A. D. 1822,
can admit of no doubt. That the proceedings of the district judge,
and the orders made by him in the cause, which are complained of,
are not in conformity with those rules, and with chancery practice,
-can admit of as little doubt. But the question before us is not as
to the regularity and propriety of those proceedings, but whether the
cnse before us is one in which a mandamus ought to issue. And
we are of opinion that it is not such a case. The district judge is
proceeding in the cause, however irregular that proceeding may be
deemed; and the appropriate redress, if any, is to be obtained by
an appeal after the final decree shall be had in the cause. A writ
of mandamus is not the appropriate remedy for any orders which
may be made in a cause by a judge in the exercise of his authority;
although they may seem to, bear harshly or oppressively upon the
party. The remedy in such cases must be sought in some other
form.
The motion for the mandamus is therefore denied.
On petition for a mandamps or for a-rule to show cause why
such writ should not issue requiring the judges of the ninth judicial
circuit to proceed in this cause, according to the rules of equity.
On consideration of the motion made in this cause by Mr. Jones,
on a prior day of the present term of this Court, to wit, on Saturday,
the 26th day of January last, and of the argument of counsel thereupon had, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this
Court, that the said motion be and the same is hereby overruled.

