SUPREME COURT.

EDWARD HARDY VS. JESSE HOYT.
Stockings and half-stockings made entirely of silk, imported from Liverpool in October,
1838, were exempted from the payment of duty, by the act of Congress passed March
2, 1833, entitled "An act to modify the act of the 14th July, 1832, and all other acts
iwposing duties on imports."

ON a certificate of division of opinion from the Circuit Court of
the.United States, for the southern district of New York.
This cause came before the Court on a certiorari to the Superior
Court of the city of New York, the action being in assumpsit to
recover from the defendant the sum of $148 29, received by him as

collector of the port of New York, for duties on an importation of
silk hose. The duty was levied at the rate of 25 per centum ad
valorem, as "hosiery," under the 2d article of the 2d section of the

act, of Congress, approved July 14th, 1832, entitled "An act to
alter and amend the several acts imposing duties on imports." The
plea of non-assumpsit was pleaded by the defendant in bar of the
action. It being proved that the articles imported were stockings and halfstockings,,made entirely of silk, and were imported from Liverpool,
in England, in the ship St. Andrew, in the month of October, in
the year one thousand eight hundred and thirty-eight, which port
of Liverpool is a port this side of the Cape of Good Hope; the
following point was presented, during the progress of the trial, for
the opinion of the judges, on which the judges were opposed in
opinion, viz.:

Whether the said silk hose was subject to the payment of the
duty imposed on hosiery by the 2d clause of the 2d section of the
act of July 14th, 1832, entitled, "An act to alter and amend the
several acts imposing duties on imports."
Or whether, as manufactures of silk, not being sewing silk, they
were exempted from the payment of duty by the 4th section of the
act of March 2d, 1833, entitled, "An act to modify the act of the
fourteenth of July, one thousand eight hundred and thirty-two, and
all other acts imposing duties on imports," which declares that all
manufactures of silk, or of which silk is the component material of
chief value; coming from this side of the Cape of Good Hope, except sewing silk, shall be free.
Which point, upon which the disagreement has happened, under
the direction of the judges of the said Court, at the request of the
counsel for the parties in the cause, was ordered to be certified unto
the Supreme Court of the United States, at the next session.
The case was submitted to the Court, on the argument m the case
of, Bend vs. Hoyt, by Mr. Raymond for the plaintiff, and Mr.
Grundy, Attorney General, for the United States.

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

93

[Edward Hardy vs. Jesse Hoyt.]

Mr. Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case involves the second point, only, which has been just decided in the case of Bend vs. Hoyt; and,therefore, it is only necessary to say that it will be certified to the Circuit Court fbr the southern district of New York, that the silk stockings and half-stockings
mentioned in the case, were exempted from duty on their importation, under the act of the 2d of March, 1833, ch. 384.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the Uifited States, for the southern district
of New York, on the points and questions on which the judges of
the said Circuit Court were opposed in opinion, and which were
certified to this Court for its opinion, agreeably to the act of Congress in such case made and -provided, and was argued by counsel.
On consideration whereof, this Court is of opinion, that the silk hose,
as manufactures of silk, not being sewing silk, were exempte&
from the payment of duty, by the fourth section of the act of the
2d of March, 1833, entitled, "An act to modify the act of the 14th
of July, 1832, and all other acts imposing duties on imports," which
declares, that all manufactures of silk, or of which silk i's the component material of chief value, coming from this side of the Cape
of Good Hope, except sewing silk, shall be free of duty., Whereupon, it is ordered and adjudgdd by this Court, that it be so certified
to the said Circuit Court, and that this case be remanded to the said
Court, that further proceedings may be had therein according to,
law.
2 B2

