S1MPREME COURT.

JOHN P. VAN NEss, APPELLANT, VS. ALPHEUS HYATT AND OTHERS,
APPELLEES.
The principle of the common law undoubtedly is, that no property but that in which the
debtor has a legal title is liable to be taken in execution; and, accordingly, it is well settled in the English Courts, that an equitable interest is not liable to execution. In the
United States, different views hive been taken of this question in the Courts of the several states.. Except, as against the mortgagee, the mortgagor is regarded as the real
owner of the property mortgaged; and this rule has very'extensively prevailed in the
states of the United States, that an equity of redemption is vendible as real property on
an execution ; and that it is also chargeable with the dower of the wife of the mortgagor.
The equity of redemption of a mortgagor of land in that part of the District of Cblumbia,
ceded by the state of Maryland to the United States, cannot be taken in execution under
.a fieri facias. At'the time of the cession to the United States, the rule of the comnon
law was the law of Marylartd.
It is not necessary to refer to authorities to sustain a proposition thf a chose in action is
not liable to be levied on by a fieri facias.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States, for the
county of Washington, in the District of Columbia.
In November, 1836, the appellant filed a bill in the Circuit Court
against Alpheus Hyatt and others. The following were ,he important facts-in the case, as sustained by,the evidence:
In December, 1818, William Cocklin leased to James Shields a lot
of ground in the city of Washington, for ten years, from January
1st, 1819, for the rent of thirty--five dollars per annum. The lessee
covenanted to erect and build, within twelve months, a two-story
brick house upon the lot; and the parties agreed, that if at or before the expiration of the lease, the lessee should pay to the lessor
the sum of three hundred and seventy-five dollars, the rent should
cease,4and so if a portion or part of the sum of three hundred and
seventy-five dollars should be paid within the time, the rent should
be diminished according to the sum or sums paid. On the payment
of the whole of the sum, William Cocklin was to make to the lessee
a good and sufficient title in fee simple to the lot.
James Shields, on the 23d of September, 1823, mortgaged the lot
and .improvements upon it to John Franks, to secure a debt of
$1127; and on the 7th day of May, 1825, the mortgagee assigned
all his right and title imder the mortgage to Alpheus Hyatt, one of
the appellees; and on the 9th day of May, 1825, James Shields released all his interest in the lot to Alpheus Hyatt, for. the consideration of two hundred dollars. Subsequently, in May, 1826, Alpheus
Hyatt, having paid to the heirs and representatives of William
Gocklin the whole sum of threb hundred and seventy-five dollars,
and the intermediate rent, they released to him the premises, and
conveyed to him in fee simple all their right, title, and property in
the same.
On the eighth day of November, 1823, Jof'n P. Van Ness, the

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

295

[John P. Van Ness vs. Alpheus Hyatt et at.)

appellant, obtained, before, a magistrate of the county of Washington, a judgment for thirty dollars and twenty-five cents, against
James Shields, and he caused a fieri facias to be issued on the judgment, onthe 10th of June, 1824, under which a levy was made by
the constable having the process, on the right, title, interest, estate,
and claim of James Shields, in and to the lot originally held by himi
under the lease and agreement with William Cocklin. The property
levied upon was sold by the constable, under the process for the
sum of fifty-four dollars, on the loth of July, 182.4; and John P.
Van Ness, the appellant, became the purchaser thereof on the 19th
day of August, 1825: the constable convqyed the premises sold by
him, to the appellant, by a deed of indenture, which was recorded
on the 9th of January, 1826.
The appellant having filed his bill stating all the facts, and alleging the conveyances rrade by Shields and Franks, and the heirs and
representatives of William Cocklin to have been erroneous and
fraudulent, and avering his full readiness to pay the heirs and representatives of William Cocklin, or to the representatives of Franks,
all that Shields was bound to pay to them; prayed a decree'that
the property should be assigned, to him, and that he should be
quieted in the possession of the same; and for general relief.
There was no evidence to support the allegations of fraud stated
in the bill, nor was there any proof given of notice to the appellees
of the same. The answers, as far as they were responsive to the
bill, and the several exhibits with the bill and the answers, were the.
only proofs in the cause.
The Circuit Court, after a hearing of the parties by their counsel,
dismissed the bill with costs; and the complainant prosecuted this
appeal.
The case was argued by Mr. Hoban and Coxe, for the appellant;
and by Mr. Key for the appellees.
For the appellant, it was contended, that tile Circuit Court erred
in refusing the prayer contained in the bill.
That the sale of the constable conveyed the estate of Shields at
the time to Van Ness.
That there is no proof of any other incumbrance on the property,
than the purchase-money and rent, when Van Ness purchased.
Mr. Hoban considered the interest bf Shields in the lot, at the
time of the sale by the constable, as one liable, to execution. The
mortgagor in possession is the owner of the property, and his interest may be levied upon and sold. Cited, M'Call vs. Lenox, 9 Serg.
and Rawle, 230. 2 Greenleaf's Rep. 132. 1.6 Mass. Rep, 305.
4 Johns. Rep. 41. 10 Johns. Rep. 481. 12 Johns. Rep. 521. 1 Barn.
aid Ald. 230. 3 Paige's Rep. 219. 9 Cranch's Rep. 153.
Coxe, also for the appellant, contended, that the interest of Shields
in the land, was such as was the subject of an execution; and that

296

SUPREME COURT.
[John P. Van Ness vs. Alpheus Hyatt et al'.

the deed from the constable to the appellant conveyed that interest.
It was recorded within the time required by law, and was ,avalid
and efficient deed. The mortgagor is the- owner of the *property
mortgaged against all the world, the mortgagee excepted.
Mr. Key for the appelees:The appellant acquired no lien on the property of Shields by the
judgment obtained before a magistrate. This is prohibited by the
act of Congress of March, 1823. Birch's Digest, 311. Nor was any
acquired by the levy made under the fieri facias issued under the
judgment. This is the consequence of the provision of the act of
Congress against a lien. There is no, record of judgments before
magistrates, and therefore no notice of them. The same may be
said as to the sale by the constable; and until the deed of August,
1825, was recorded in January, 1826, nothing could be known of
ti-e proceedings by which a bona fide purchaser might protect
himself.
Shields had no property Which could be made the, subject of a
levy. In May previous to the proceeding he had mortgaged the lot
to Franks, who subsequently, before the constable's sale, conveyed
the mortgaged interest to Alpheus Hyatt. On the 9th of May,
1825, Shields released all his interest in the premises to Mr. Hyatt.
But Shields had no interest upon which a levy could be made
under the lease from Cocklin; or if he had an interest under the
lease, it expired on the 1st of January, 1826. The appellant applied
in 1836 to the heirs of the lessor, to redeem in 1836, when all the
interest under the lease was sure.
Shields had nothing but an equity of redemption on the property;
and this in the District of Columbia, which is regulated by the law
of Maryland prevailing when the territory wasceded to -the United
States, could not be levied upon. 8 East, 484. 2 Saunders, 11.
Act- of Maryland of 1810, ch. 130. 9 Cranch, 496. 2 Harris and
M'Hehry, 355. 5 Harris and Johns. 315,

Mr. Justice BARDOUR delivered the opinion of the Court
'This is an appeal from the Circuit Court for the county of Washington, in a suit in equity brought by the appellant in that Cdurt,
in 'which a decree was made, dismissing the bill with costs.
The case was this. On the 31st day of December, 1818, an
agreement was entered into between William Cocklin and James
Shields; by which Cocklin leased to Shields part of a lot in the
city of Washington,'for ten years, from the'1st of January, 1819,
for the yearly rent of thirty-five dollars. The lessee was to build a
two story brick house on the lot, within twelve months from ihe
date of the lease. And it wc-s agreed between the parties, that if,
at the expiration of the lease, Shields should pay to Cocklin three
hundied and seventy-five dollars, then the rent should cease to be'
paid; or if all, oXrany part of the three hundred and seventy-five
dollars were paid before the expiration of the lease, then such part

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

297

[John P. Van Ness vs. Alpheus Hyatt et al.]

of the rent of thirty-five dollars should cease, as should bear an
equal proportion to the money so paid. And on the receipt of the

whole of the purchase money, and not before; Cocklin should make
to Shields a good and sufficient title in fee simple, to the lot of
ground described in the lease.
On the 23d of September, 1823, Shields, the lessee, mortgaged
the premises to a certain John Franks, to secure a debt of $1127 18.
On 7th May, 1825, Franks assigned all his right and title to the
appellee; who also, on the 9th of May, 1825, procured from Shields
a release of his interest, and from the representatives of Cocklin a
conveyance of all their title, on the 16th of April, 1826.
On the 8th of November, 1823, the appellant obtained, before a
magistrate in Washington county, a judgment against Shields for
$30 25, and a fieri facias issued thereon, on the loth of June, 1824 ;
which was levied by the constable, upon the right, title, estate,
interest, and claim of Shields in the lot in question. At the sale of
the lot, under this execution, the appellant became the purchaser, at
the price of $54; and the constable, by a deed dated the 19th of'
August, 18?5, and recorded the 9th of January, 1826, conveyed the
right and title of Shields in the lot, to the appellant.
The bill was brought by the appellant against the appellee,
Shields, the representatives of Cocklin and of Franks, stating the
above facts, which are all that are material to a correct understanding of the case; charging that the mortgage to Franks was fraudulent and covinous, and that all the conveyances to the appellee were
made with full knowledge by all parties of the appellant's purchase
and rights; averring his readiness to pay all that Shields was bound
to pay for the property in question, at the time of his purchase, to
Cocklin or his heirs, or to the representatives of Franks, then deceased; and praying that all the parties might be compelled to assign
their pretended rights and claims to the property in question, to the
complainant, and deliver up quiet possession of the premises; arid
for general relief.
The view which we have takep of the case renders it unnecessary
to state the grounds of defence taken in the several answers. It
will be sufficient to say, that there is no proof in the cause, except
the answers, as far as they are responsive to the bill, and the several
exhibits with the bill and answers: that all the facts stated above
are contained in the bill itself, and proven by the exhibits; and that
there is no evidence to sustain either fraud, or notice, as alleged in
the bill.
Upon this state of the case the question arises, whether the appellant is entitled to the relief which he prays for. The only interest
which the appellant can claim in the property in question, is derived from the levy made by the officer under his execution, and
the purchase made by him at the sale under that execution, of whatever right, title, and claim Shields had' in the property. Now it
must be borne in mind, that not only before the sale, but even
before the levy, Shields had mortgaged the lot to Franks: and,
38

298

SUPREME COURT.
(John P. Van Ness va. Alpheus Hyatt etal.]

consequently, his right was only an equity of redemption. Was
this such a right or interest, as that a fieri facias could be levied
,upon it? The principle of the common law undoubtedly is, that no
property but that in which the debtor has a legal title is liable to
be taken by this execution; and, accordingly, it is well settled in
the English Courts, that an equitable interest is not liable to execution. '1 Vesey; Jr. 431. 8 East, 467. 5 Bos. and Pull. 461.
lu the United States different views have been taken on this
question, in the Courts of the several states. It is said, in 4 Kent's
Commentaries, 1l3, 154, that Courts of law have, by a gradual and
almost insensible progress, adopted the views of a Court of equity
on the subject of mortgages, which are founded in justice, and
accord with the true intent and inherent nature of the transaction;
that except as against the mortgagee, the mortgagor, while in possession, and before foreclosure, is regarded as the real owner; and
that, in this country, the rule has very extensively prevailed, that
an equity of redemption was vendable 'as real property on an execution at law, and that it is also chargeable with the dower of the
wife of the mortgagor: and cases are referred to, in New York,
Connecticut, and other states, in support of the proposition. On the
contrary, it has been held in Virginia, that the resulting interest of a
grantor in a deed of trust made to secure debts, cannot be reached
by execution. -6Rand. 255. And this principle is not' without some
strong reasons in its support, independently of mere authority.
Amongst others, Lord Ellenborough very cogenitly remarks, in 8
East, 481, that the sheriff could 6nly sell subject to the trusts ; that
the execution creditor, or the vendee, would still be obliged to go
into equity, to get an account, or to redeem prior encumbrances,
which might be done in the first instance by a judgment creditor,
with less expense and delay; besides, the destruction of the debtor's
estate, which under so much doubt and difficulty would sell greatly
under value, so that a large equitable interest might be exhausted
in satisfaction of a small demand, to the detriment of other creditors.
Whatsoever may have been the debisions upon this subject, in
the Courts of some of the states, in which the Courts of law have,
"by a gradual and almost insensible progress, adopted the equitable
views of the subject," we must be governed, in deciding this case,
by that law which Congress enacted for the District of Columbia, on
assuming jurisdiction over it. They adopted the laws of Maryland
then in force, as far as regards that part of the District in which this
question arises. Amongst those laws was the conimon law. Now
we have already seen, that by the common law, an equitable
interest, such as an equity of redemption, is not liable to execution.
This would be decisive of the case, unless there should be, found to
be some legislation, or some course of authoritative judicial decision, which had so far modified the common law, by engrafting
upon it the principles-of the Court of equity, in relation to mortgages, as to change the rule in this respect. It is not pretended that
any legislative act has produced this effect. Is there any course of

JANUARY TERM, 1839.,

299

[John P. Van Ness vs. Alpheus Hyatt et al.]

judicial decision which does? Three Maryland cases have been
cited for this purpose. As to two of them, viz. Purl vs. Duvall, 5
Harr. and Johns. 69. 74, and Ford vs. Philpott, 5 Harr. and Johns.
312, it would be sufficient to say, that they had been decided many
years since the cession by Maryland of that part of the District. in
which 'this question arises, was made; and, therefore, whatever
respect might be due to them, they are not authority. As to the
case of Campbell vs. Morris, which was decided in the year 1797,
we are informed that the Chief Justice of the Court had declared
that the covenant for quiet enjoyment in that case was a legal
estate, which was attachable; and that the Court gave no opinion
whether an equity of redomption was liable to attachment.
But without examining th~se cases in detail, or undertaking to
say that they would leave the question entirely free from doubt,
we think that there is enough, both in the legislation and judicial
decisions of Maryland, and ina decision of this Court, to show how
the law is understood there.
As to legislation. By the act of Assembly of 1810, sheriffs, under
a fieri facias, are authorized to seize and expose to sale any equitable estate or interest which the debtor may have in any lands, tenements, or hereditaments. Now, why was this act passed? If such
had been considered the principle at common law, the act would
have been mere supererogation. It is, therefore, in our opinion, decisive evidence to p rove, that the contrary was considered to be the
law before its passage, as it does not profess to be a declaratory act.
But let us for a moment examine the judicial decisions of Maryland, and one in this Court.
In 6 Gill and John. 72, it is decided that a mortgagor cannot maintain trespass against a mortgagee. On the contrary, in 11 John.
534, it is decided that a moitgagor may maintain trespass against the
mortgagee. In 4 Kent's Com. 154, it is said, that an equity of redemption is chargeable with the dower of the wife of the mortgagor.
On the contrary, this Court, in the case of Stelle vs. Carroll, at the
last term, 12 Peters, 201, professing to follow the law of Maryland, in other words, the common law, decided, that the widow of
a mortgagor was not dowable of an equity of redemption. Now,
why these contrary decisions upon these two important points, in relation to the nature and character of the interest and title'of a mortgagor? There can be but one answer. That in New York and other
states, following a similar course, the Courts of law had, by a gradtal progress, adopted the views of a Court of equity in relation
to mortgages ; and considered the mortgagor, except as against the
mortgagee, whilst in possession, and before foreclosure, as the real
owner, and even as against the mortgagee having the right of
possession; whilst, in Maryland, as we learn from the case before
referred to,.in 6 Gill and Johnson, the legal estate is considered
as being vested in the mortgagee; and that as soon as the estate in
mortgage is created, the mortgagee may enter' into possession,
though he seldom avails himself of that right. In these antagonist

SUPREME COURT.
[John P. Van Ness vs. Alpheus Hyatt-et aL]

'doctrines, we have the clew to the opposing decisions of the Courts.
Neither dower can be recovered, nor trespass maintained, where
there is a mere equity; nor, where that is the case, can a fieri facias
be levied. The same principle, then, precisely, which, in Maryland precludes the recovery of dower by the widow of a mortgagor,
or the maintenance of an action of trespass by a mortgagor against
a mortgagee, exempts, also, the equity of redemption of a mortgagor from being liable to execution.
But there is a case decided at the last December term of the
Court of Appeals of Maryland, which, we think, puts an end to all
question in this case. From a manuscript record of that case, which
has been laid before us, we extract the following language: " The
last point raised by the appellants is, that the property taken under
the execution was not legally the propertyof Brady, and that equitable
interests in personal property are not the subjects of an execution.
With the appellant's premises on this point, as legal propositions,
we see no reason to find fault. It cannot be denied as a legal principle, that a debtor's equitable estate in personal property cannot, at
law, be seized and sold under a ier facias." Now, this was the case
of personal estate; but it proves, clearly, that.. but for the act of
1810, before referred to, the same principle would'have applied to real
estate ; for the.difflculty does not grow out of the kind of property,
but out of the kind of interest in the property, to wit, that it is equitable, and not legal.
Upon these grounds,. we think that Shield's interest in the lot was
not subject to execution, on account of its being an equity of redemption.
There i's one ground: stated in the manuscript opinion
of the
Court of Appeals of Maryland, before referred to, in relation to this
subject, which it may be proper to notice.
It is there said, that,,as in case of equitable interests, a Court of
equity would, after an execution issued, and a return showing that
there was no available remedy at law, assist the party, by charging
the equitable interest; so the Court, if -applied to for that purpose,
would decree a ratification of a sale of such interest, where it had
been made by the officer under the execution. Whatever might be
the authority of a Court -f equity on this subject as against
Shields himself, it could not be done in this case; because here there
are third parties, who have, for a valuable consideration, without
notice, acquired a previous equitable right, and gotten in, also, the
legal estate. So that they stand upon the great principle that they
have the prior equity, and that equity fortified by the legal title.
But there is another view of this case, which we will present
very briefly, which also brings us to the conclusion that Shields'
interest in the lot in question would not have been liable to execution, even if it had not been encumbered by a previous mortgage.
And it is this: beyond the mere lease for years, Shields had no interest whatsoever in the lot, but the right to purchase, in case he,
by a given time, :complied with the particular conditions. Now,

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

301

[John P. Van Ness vs. Alpheus Hyatt et al.]

this right to purchase, we consider nothing more than a contract by
which the party was entitled, if he had elected to have done so,
upon certain terms, to secure to himself certain benefits. In other
words, at the time of the levy of the appellant's executions, Shields
had a conditional right to purchase, which, in effect, was nothing
more than a chose in action. We do not think it necessary to refer
to authorities to sustain a proposition so well settled, as that an execution of fieri facias cannot be levied on a chose in action.
But even if this could be done, no one could derive 4 greater benefit under that contract than the party himself; and Shields could
not have claimed the benefit of the election given to him to purchase, because it depended, in its very terms, on particular conditions to be performed by him, at a particular time; which were not
performed. Upon these grounds, we think that Shields had not such
an interest in the lot in question as was liable to execution; that,
consequently, the appellant acquired no right by his purchase, which
gives him a stand in a Court of equity to ask for the right of redemption, or any other relief. The decree of the Circuit Court is
therefore right, and is affirmed, with costs.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States, for the District of Columbia, holden in and for the county of Washington, and was argued
by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is adjudged and decreed
by this Court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court in this cause
be, and the same is hereby, affirmed with costs.

VOL. XIII.-2 C

