JANUARY TERM, 1839.

THE

BANK OF THE UNITED STATES, APPELLANT, V&oELIZABETH

LEE, EDMUND J. LEE, AND RICHARD SMITH, APPELLEES.
R. B. L. in 1809, then residing in Virginia, for a valuable consideration, made a conveyance
in trust for the benefit of his wife, of certain persortal property, and slaves, which deed
was duly- recorded according to the provisions of the act of the legislature of Virginia.
The property thus conveyed, remained in the possession of the husband and wife, while
they resided in Virginia; and in 1814, & B. L. removed to the District of Columbia, with
his wife and family, and brought with him the slaves and property conveyed in trust for
his wife. In 1817, R. B. L. borrowed a sum of money of the Bank of the United
States, on his promissory note, endorsed by one of the trustees named in the deed of trusk
of 1809. At the time the loan was made, R. B. L. executed a deed of tmst of eley.94
slaves, and among them were the slaves and the household- furniture conveyed'hy t6e
deed of 1809, to secure the bank for the amount of the 10an. In 1827, R. B. L. died,
entirely insolvent. During his residence in Washington, being in reduced circumstances,
le sold some of the slaves, conveyed by the deed of 1809., for the support of his family;
without objection by his wife or hpr trustees. In 1834, the debt to the bank being unpaid, a bill was filed against Mrs. E. I., the wife of R. B. L., and the trustees, .in order to
compel the surrender of the remaining slaves, and the household furniture, to the trustee
for the bank, for the sale of the same, to satisfy the debt due to the bank: held, that the
d~ed of 1809, vesting the property in Mrs. L.'s trustees, was effectual, according to the
laws of Virginia, to protect the .title thereto, against the subsequent creditors, or purchasers from R. B. Lee; and that the removal of R. B. L. and his wife, into the District
of Columbia, with the property conveyed to the trustees for the use of Mrs. L., did not
affect or impair the validity of the deed of trust.
A liberal construction should be given to the clause-of the Virginia statute, for the suppression of fraud. This is the well established rule in the constructiou, of the statute of
Elizabeth, which the first section of the Virginia statute substantially adopts.
If A sells, or conveys his lands or slaves to B, and then produces to another his previous
paper title, and obtains credit on the goods or lands, by pledging them for money loaned,
he is guilty of fraud; ard if the true owner stands by, and does not make his title known,
he will be bound to make good the contract, on the principle that he who holds his peace
-whenhe ought to have spoken, shall not be heard now that he should be silent. He is
deemed, in equity, a party to the fraud.

ON appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States, for the
county of Washington, in the District of Columbia.
The appellant 'filed a bill in the Circuit Court, stating, that in
1817, Richard Bland Lee represented himself to be the owner of
certain after mentioned property, then in his possession; that he applied to the bank for a loan of $600, and offered to convey the said'
property in trust, to secure the repayment of said sum of money;
that the loan was made, and a deed of trust executed and delivered
on the 11th-June, 1817, to Richard Smith, as trustee; that the
said Lee died ii 1827, intestate and insolvent, leaving said 4dbt
unpaid; that no'administration was taken on his estate; that his
widow. Elizabeth Lee, the defendant, has taken possession of said
property.land withholds it from said trustee, alleging that it had
been previously conveyed by he said husband, in January, 1809, to
trustees, for ner use.
The bill. charges, that the said deed of the 9th January, 1809, if
ever made, was a, voluntary and fraudulent deed ; and, therefore,
'void against the complainants, who are bona fide purchasers, for a

108

SUPREME COURT.
[The Bank of the United States vs. Elizabeth Lee et al.]

valuable consideration without notice: that the considerations expressed in the said deed are false,-or, if true, insufficient to give it
solidity; that at the date of the said deed, Richard Bland Lee was
largely indebted, and incompetent at law to make the same; that
if the said deed had every legal requisite, it was executed in Virginia, and never was recorded in Washington county, in the District of Columbia, to which place the said Lee and his wife removed,
bringing with them tlhe said property, or was other notice given to
the public then of its existence: that E. J. Lee, the surviving trustee,
in the deed of the 9th January, 1809, and Mrs. Lee, herself,. knew
that the complainant had loaned the $6000 to Richard Bland Lee,
upon his representations that he was the owner of the said property, and that Richard Bland Lee had conveyed the same to
Richard Smith, to secure the payment of the said sum of money; and
never communicated to the complainants, or to Smith, until several
years after the death of Richard Bland Lee, the existence of the
deed of the 9th January, 1809.
The bill prayed that the deed of the 9th January may be produced, the execution thereof and the recitals therein fully proved;
and that it may be declared fraudulent and void against the complainants.
Elizabeth Lee, in her answer, admits the loan, and the execution
of the deed to Richard Smith, but avers she was ignorant of its execution until long after it had been delivered, and never consented
thereto; she denies any knowledge of the representations made by
Richard Bland Lee, respecting the ownership of said property, when
he applied for the loan.
She says, that on the 9th January, 1809, shd and her husband,
then living, and having a long time before dwelt in Fairfax county,
Virginia, and the property in the deed mentioned therein, being in the
said comty, she agreed with her husband to relinquish her right of
dower in certain lands in Spotsylvania county, Virginia, in which
her husbalid held five-eighths of eight thousand acres; and also to
convey her right in certain Fairfax land, containing two thousand
one hundred acres, her separate, property, to trustees, to secure a
debt of $10,034 28, due from her husband to Judge Washington;
in consideration of which, and of her execution of the conveyances
and relinquishment of her dower,.her husband agreed to convey to
E. J. Lee, William Maffit, and R. Coleman, certain slaves, &c., of
which those mentioned in the bill of complaint are part, for her use,;
that it was agreed that her said husband should be authorized
to sell any part of the said property, with consent of a majority
of the said trustees, provided he should convey to the said trustees other property, to the full value of that sold. She avers
that, in execution of this agreement, and in consideration of, the
deed of the slaves, &c., of the 9th January, 1809, she executed
the deed of the Spotsylvania land, and relinquished her dower
therein; that on the 9th January, 1809, she conveyed the land in
Fairfax, to secure Judge Washington's debt; and on the same day

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

109

[The Bank of the United States v8. Elizabeth Lee et al.]

her husband, in fulfilment of his part of the agreement, made and
executed the deed of the 9th January, 1809, to E, J. Lee, Maffit,
and Coleman, of the slaves, &c., which deed was duly proved and
recorded in Fairfax County Court, within eight months from its
date; in which said county, she still continued for some time to
reside with 'her husband, and where she continued to hold the said
property. The deeds are exhibited with the answer.
She declares the agreement to have been bona fide, and without
fraud, and claims to be the owner of said property. She admits her
husband sold part of the property, with the consent of her trustees,
and other part under the pressure of great distress, without their consent, after they removed to Washington; that her husband died in
1827; that they lived together until his death; and that her possession
of the property, being domestic servants and household furniture,
could not be separated from his, and was consistent with the deed.
The case is stated more at large in the opinion of the Court.
The Circuit Court decreed that the bill should be dismissed; and
the complainants prosecuted this appeal.
For the appellant, Coxe and. Mr. Sergeant contended:I. That the deed of 9th January, 1809, was, from the beginning,
fraudulent and void.
1. Because on the face of said deed no valid consideration appears;
but the same is voluntary, by a person largely indebted, in favour
of his wife and children.
2. Because no such agreement, as is set forth in defendant Elizabeth Lee's answer, is proved; although put in issde by the pleadings, and strict proof is required by the complainants.
3. Because it is admitted that the property recited in said deed to
have been conveyed to Turner and others, was merely conveyed,
by way of mortgage, to secure a debt due to Judge Washington ;
which debt has been paid from other sources, and the said property
so mortgaged has been exonerated from said incumbrance.
4. Because no such deed as is recited in the deed of 9th January,
1809, as having been then made to Ludwell Lee, appears ever to
have been executed.
5. Because the deed of 16th Jlly, 1809, from R. B. Lee and
Elizabeth his wife, to Ludwell Lee, does not correspond with the
description in the recital of the deed of 9th January, 1809.
II. Because the continued possession, use, and enjoyment by said
R. B. Lee, of the said property, purported to be conveyed by the
deed of 9th January, 1809, was evidence of a continued ownership ;
and avoids said deed as against subsequent bona fide purchasers
and creditors, without notice.
III. That said deed, so executed in Virginia, will not validate the
possession, use, and enjoyment of said property in the city of Washington.
IV. Bec.use the whole case exhibits a case of gross and palpable
fraud, which ought not to stand in a Court of Equity.
VOL. XIII.-K

110

SUPREMk COI1,ttT.
[The Bank of the United States vs. Elizabetl*Lee et aL]

For the appellees, Myr Marbury and Mr. Cooke insisted, that the
deed of January 9th, ISO9, is valid against tlk complainants. That,
.considered as a voluntary settlement, it is good against the complainants, they being subsequent creditors.
That the said deed was made Xfor good and valuable considerations between fle parties.
That there is no evidence to charge Mrs. Lee, or her trusteewith
any fraudulent practice on the complainants; in the concealment of
their title to the property at any time.
That the possession of jItichard Bland Lee, after his removal to
the District of Columbia, was cojisistent with the deed, and the
necessary congeluence of his relation to Mrs. Lee.
That it was not necessary to record the deed in the District of Columbia, on the removal of the parties and of the property to-Washington city.
That the power reserved to Mr. Lee, to dispose of the property
with the consent of the trustees, is not a badge of fraud; and does
not affect the validity of the deed in which that power is reserved.
That the sale by Richard Bland Lee of portions of the said trust
property, without the assent of the trustees, cannot affect the title of
Mrs. Lee to that part which he did not sell.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of theCort.The bill alleges, as a principal ground of relief, fraud in fact, inl
6 inception of the conveyance sought 'to be st aside: this being
denied by the answers, it is incumbent that fraud in fact should be
proved by the complainants.; and which, they insist, is established
by the proofs. As the pleadings and exhibits furnish almost the
entire evidence, it becomes material to set them out to a considerable extent. And in extracting the facts, from which it is supposed
we are authorized to infer fraud, it must be done with reference to
the bearing of the local and peculiar laws of Virginia on the transaction.
It appears that, in 1817, Richard Bland Lee, the husband of
Elizabeth Lee, the respondent, borrowed from the Bank of the United
States, at their office of discount at Washington, $6,000 on his
note at sixty days, (renewable at the pleasure of the bank,) and endorsed by Ed. J. Lee and Walter Jones: and further to secure the
repayment of the money, executed a deed of trust for eleven slaves,
and suidry household goods, valued at $7,200, to Richard Smith,
the cashier of office of discount, with power to the trustee to sell in
default of payment, after givingthirty days' notice. The deed also
pledged some outstanding claims, not necessary to be noticed, as
they proved to be of no material value. The debt not having been
paid, after long indulgence, suit was brought,-and a recovery had,
against Richard Bland Lee, and Walter Jones, one of the endorsers;
but no part of the judgment has been satisfied.
In 1834 the president, directors, and company of the bank filed their
bill against Edmund J. Lee, Elizabeth Lee, and Richard Smith, the

JANUARY VERM, 1839.

111

[The Bant-of the United States v8. Elizabeth Lee et al.]

trustee; alleging that Richard Bland Lee died in 1827 intestate;
that no one had admin~iered on his estate, and that Elizabeth Lee
had converted the slaves and household goods to her awn use after
the death of her husband; that she was executrix in her. own
wrong, and bound to pay the debt; but refused to do so, asserting
the property pledged to pay the bank debt by hex late husband,
had been conveyed by him, as early as 1809, to Ed. J. Lee, William
Maffit, and Richard Coleman, in trust for the sole and sepai*te use
of the said Elizabeth; that she had exhibited the deed to the complainants, but which they aver was voluntary, fraudulent, and void,
as against them, because they were purchasers for a valuable consideration, without notice of such deed; as also creditors of Richard
Bland Lee, the grantor. That the considerations set forth in the
deed are not truly stated; but, if truly stated, they are wholly insufficient to give validity to the same., That Richard Bland Lee, at
the date of the deed in 1809, was largely indebted, and incompetent
in law to make such deed for the benefit of his wife and family.
That if the deed was duly executed, and upon legal and adequate
consideration when made, yet the same was executed in the commonwealth, of Virginia; that the trustees had never acted under it,
or taken possession of the property embraced in it; but had suffered
Richard.Bland Lee, the grantor, at all tifnes, and without interruption, from the date 'of the deed to the time of-his death, to retain
possession of the property, and to use, enjoy, and dispose of the
same, and h 14 himself out to the world as the true and absolute
owner; and especially, that the trustees had permitted the
grantir to bring the slaves and furniture from Virginia to the District of Columbia and county of Washington, about the year 1814,
and there to continue his use and enjoyment of the same, as if he
were the absolute, entire, and unqualified owner thereof.
That the deed was never recorded in the county of Washington,
nor notice given to the public, or the complainants, of its existence,
during the lifetime of Richard Bland Lee, nor for some years after
his (eath ; but he was permitted to obtain credit and contract- debts
upon the faith of his being the sole and absolute owner of the slaves
and goods described in the deed; and permitted to sell and dispose
of parts of the same without any assertion of right or title on the part
of the trustees or said Elizabeth; and that Ed. J.Lee, the only surviving trustee, and the said Elizabeth, knew that the complainants
had made the loan of the $6,000 to Richard Bland Lee, in the full
faith that hi was the real and unqualified owner of the property;
and knew he had made and executed the deed of trust to Richard
Smith, to secure the repayment of the money; yet theydid not
communicate to the complainants the existence of the deed made
for the. benefit of the said Elizabeth, during the lifetime of Richard
Bland Lee, nor until several years after his death; nor did said Ed.
J. Lee, or Elizabeth, intimate in any manner, or give the complainants, or their trustee, reason to suspect that there was any- defect in
the title derived under the deed to Richard Smith; nor that Ed. J.

112

SUPREME COURT.
[The Bank of the United States vs. Elizabeth Lee et a].]

Lee, or Elizabeth, had any title or claim, or pretended to have, w
the slaves and furniture.
The foregoing allegations present two aspects; 1st, That the
deed of 1809 was fraudulent and void in its inception: and, 2d,
That if valid'in Virginia, it not having been recorded in the county
of Washington, (formerly a part of Maryland,) and the continued
possession of the property covered by it having remained with the
grantor, both in Virginia and herb, up to the time of his death; was
such a-fraud upon creditors of, and purchasers from, Richard Bland
Lee, as to destroy the effect of the conveyance.
The, deed of 1809, amongst other things, sets forth that Richard
Bland Lee owed Judge Washington $10,034 28; and, as a part of
the consideration, Mrs. Lee had joined her husband in a mortgage
to trustees for Judge Washington's use, pledging her separate estate
to secure the debt. These specific 'facts the bill does .not set forth;
but, by way of interrogatory, asks the defendants to answer, whether
the debt mentioned in said deed, as being due to Judge Washington,
had ever been paid; by whom, and from what funds; and the
respondents are required to produce the deed.
It also appears that the complainants, commenced an action of
replevin against Mrs. Lee for the slaves and household goods; and
which: was, by an agreement of the parties, suspended until the termination of this suit.
Ed. J. Lee answers, that the deed of 1809! was executed by.
Richard Bland Lee, to himself and others, as trustees for Elizabeth
Lee, the wife of said Richard Bland Lee; that it sets forth the true
consideration for the same; that the respondent is the only surviving
trustee; that he never did give notice to the complainants of the
existence of the deed; but that he did not know, until shortly before
Richard Bland Lee's death, that he had made the deed of trust to
Richard Smith; and which never received respondent's assent.
That he cannot state, from general recollection, how the debt-due to
Judge Washington was paid; but it is-his impression ,it was paid
either by stock in the Bank of Alexandria, which belonged to Elizabeth Lee, and was held in trust for her by her brother Zacheus
Collins, deceased; or by a sale of part of the farm called Langley.
Elizabeth Lee answers, that the loan of $6,000 was made by the
bank as charged; but that she was ignorant of the exeeuion of the
deed of trust to Richard Smith, to secure the repayment of the
money, until long after the deed had been delivered and the loan
made: denies she ever assented thereto, or waived her rights to the
slaves, or any part of the property purporting to have been conveyed by the deed. Admits the recovery of the judgment as alleged; and that Richard Bland Lee died in 1827, intestate and insolvent; and that no one has administered on his estate.
And, further answering, says, that on the 9th day of January, in
the year 1809, the said Richard B. Lee and this respondent, then
dwelling, and having for a long time before dwelt in the county of
Fairfax, in the state of Virginia, and the slaves and other personal

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

113

[The Bank of the Uited States vs. Elizabeth Lee et al.]

property hereinafter mentioned, then being in the said county, she
agreed with the said Richard to relinquish her right of dower in a
certain tract of land in the county of Spotsyl.ania, in the common-

wealth of Virginia, on the Rappahanmock river, containing eight
thousand acres, more or less, of five undivided eighth parts, of which
the said Richard Bland Lee was seised in fee simple, and to join
the said Richard in a conveyance thereof to Ludwell Lee.
She also, on the same day, agreed to join her said husband in the
execution of a deed of trust to Henry Smith Turner, Thomas Blackburn, and Bushrod Washington, Jun., conveying to them two tracts
of land in the said county of Fairfax, one situated on the river Potomac, near the Little Falls thereof, containing sixteen hundred
acres, more or less; the other being the estate on which the 'said
Richard and this respondent then resided, containing fire hundred
and thirty acres, more or less; which tracts of land were then held
in trust for this respondent: which last mentioned conveyance was
to be made to the said Turner and others, in trust to secure the payment of the sum of ten thousand and thirty-four dollars and twentyeight cents, due from 'the said Richard to the Honourable Bushrod
Washington. And in consideration of the execution of the said
conveyance by this respondent, and of her thereby relinquishing her
dower in the said Spotsylvania lands, and her right to the said lands
in Fairfax, the said Richard, on his part, agreed- to convey to Edmund J. Lee, William Maffit, and Richard Coleman, all the household and kitchen furniture, carpeting, beds, bedsteads, bed furniture,
plate, chinaware, glass, tables, chairs, table linen, carpets, sideboards,
bureaus, wardrobes; and all kinds of furniture, then in their said
dwelling house and kitchen; estimated to'be worth sixteen hun'dred dollars; and the following slaves, that is to say: John, and his
wife Alice, and their' children Patty, Betty, Henry, Charles, Johnny,
Margaret, Milly, and Frank; Ludwell, and his wife Nancy, and
their children Caroline, Harriet, Frederick, Ludwell, and Barbara;
Henny and her child Eleanor; Rachel and her child Rachel; two
sisters, Kitty and Letty, and their brothers, Alexander and Alfred;
George, (4 blacksmith,) Harry, (a carpenter,) Harry, (a wagoner,)
Tom, (a carter,) Thornton, (a cook,) Samuel, (a smith,) and John,
(a ploughboy,) to be held by the said E. J. Lee, William Maffit, and
Richard Coleman, and the survivors and survivor of them, and the,
executors and administrators of such survivor, in trust, for the use
of this respondent, during her life; and after her death, to pass to
her heirs _t law, provided shb died intestate, or to such persois as
she mightbequeath the same to by her last will and testament, so as
she should make the same pass fully and completely, and without
limitation or conditionito her heirs or legatees: It was further
agreed by the said Richard'and this respondent, that the said Richard
should be authorized, at any time during his life, to sell or other,
wise dispose of any part of the said slaves and furniture, with the
conpSent of a majority of the said trustees, or of the survivors or
survivor of them, or-of the executors or administrators of the last
K 2

1

15

SUPREME COURT.
(The Bank of the Vnited States vs. Elizabeth Lee et al.]

survivor, provided the said Richard should convey to the said trustees, ,ir to the survivors or survivor, or the executors or administrators of the last survivor, other property, real or personal, to the full
value of the said furniture or slaves; so sold or disposed of. And
it was further agreed, that if the said Richard should fully pay the
said debt to the Honourable Bushrod Washington, without selling
any part of the lands to be conveyed to the said Henry S. Turner
and others, in trust, as aforesaid, and then held in trust for the said
Elizabeth, then that the conveyance to be made as aforesaid, to the
said E.J. Lee, William Maftit, and Richard Colemai, should become
null and void, as to the slaves Ludwell, Thornton, Henry, Butler,
Tom, Samuel, Jack, and Eleanor.
And the said Elizabeth avers, that in execution of the said agreement, and in consideration of the conveyance by the terms thereof
to be made to the said E. J. Lee, William Maffit, and Richard Coleman, for her use, in manner and on the terms aforesaid, she did, on
the 16th day of July, 1809, in due form of law, with the said R. B.
Lee, execute and deliver to the said Ludwell, a conveyance in fee
of the said lands in Spotsylvania, thereby relinquishing her claim
of dower therein. And did, with the said Richard, in due form of
law, on the 9th day of January, 1809, execute and deliver to the
said Henry S. Turner, Thomas Blackburn, and Bushrod Washington, Jun., a deed for the said lands, in Fairfax county, whereby she
conveyed her right to the said lands last mentioned, to the said
Turner and others, in trust, to secure the payment of the said debt,
due from the said Richard B. Lee to the Honourable Bushrod
Washington, in the manner provided by the said agreement. And
that the said Richard did, onthe same day,'ift execution of the said
agreement, on his part, execute and deliver to the said E. J. Lee,
William Maffit, and Richard Coleman, a conveyance, whereby he
transferred and conveyed to them the said slaves and furniture before mentioned, to be held in trust for this respondent, in the manner
and on the terms before stated, which said deed was duly proved
and recorded, within eight month§ from the date thereof, in the
County Court of the county of Fairfax, in which the said Richard
and this respondent continued still to reside, and in which the said
slaves'and furniture still remained. And this defendant herewith
exhibits the said three deeds severally, marked, Exhibits, No. 1,
No. 2, and No. 3. This respondent avers, that the said agreement
before. mentioned, was made between the said- Richard and her;
and the said deeds executed in pursuance thereof, fairly and bona
fide, without any intention to defeat, defraud, hinder, or delay any
creditor of the said Richard. She is advised' and insists that they
were duly proved and recorded) according to the laws of the state
of Virginia, and that, wmder the same, she is a bona fide purchaser
of the said slaves and furniture, according to the terms of the said
deed'to E. . Lee and others; and that the said deed fully protects
her, in the right to the said property conveyed, according to the
terms thereof, against all creditors of the said Richard, and all pur-

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

115

(The Dank of the United Stateo vs. Eozai)th Lee et at.]

chasers subsequently to the date thereof. And this respondent has
before herewith exhibited, vis part of her answer to said dee& with
the certificate of proof and record, thereof,, by the clerk of the
County Court of Fairfax county, marked Exhibit No; 3.
This respondent admits that no sale of the Fairfax lands was
made under the said deed to Henry S. Turner and others; she, therefore, makes no claim to the slaves, Ludwell, Thornton, Henry, Butler, Tom, Samuel, Jack, and Eleanor; that none of the said last
mentioned slaves are in her possession or subject to her confrol, nor
were they so when the complainanits issued out their writ of replevin
in their bill mentioned, or at the time they instituted this suit.
In this case it is agreed, that the following facts be, and they are
hereby, admitted as true, reserving all objections to the admissibility
of the facts as competent testimony in the case, viz. That Richard
Bland Lee and his wife Elizabeth, one of the defendants,,resided at
Fairfax county, in the state of Virginia, on the 9th January, in
the year 1-809, and said Richard B. Lee then held the negroes and
other personal property, mentioned in the deed of that' date, from
said Richard B. Lee, to Lee, Maffit, and Coleman, filed with defendant Elizabeth's answer, and marked Exhibit No. 3.
That the said R. B. Lee and his wife Elizabeth were housekeep
ers, and resided together, in Fan'fax county, at the date aforesaid,
that the said negroes and other personal property continued in theii
possession after'the deed of the 9th January, 1809, had been made,
in like manner, as such possession had been held before said deed
was made, and so continued until they removed to Washington
City, in the year 1814 or 1815, when they brought said negroes and
other property, from Fairfax county with them to the city of Washington. That from the period of said removal to Washington, said
personal property, as distinguished from the negroes, was assessed
by the officers of the corporation as the property of the said Richard
B. Lee.
That four of the said negroes were, for the first time, in the year
1818, assessed to said Richard B. Lee. That prior to the 9th day
of January, in the year 1809, the said Richard B. Lee was seized
in fee of five undivided eighth parts of 8000 acres of land in Spotsylvania county, in the state of Virginia, which was conveyed by
said Richard B. Lee and said Elizabeth his wife, to Ludwell Lee in
fee simple.
The execution, due acknowledgment, and recording of the deed
and bills 9f sale, exhibited with the defendant Elizabeth Lee's answer, is admitted.
The execution and service of the notices exhibited with the answer of the defendant, Edmund J. Lee, is admitted.
It is admitted that the deed of the 9th January, 1809, was deLivered to the trustees therein named, and that they agreed to act, but
never took possession of the property therein mentioned, or of any
part of it.
It is also agreed that the deeds referTA
to, in . J. Lee's, Eliza-

116

SUPREME COURT.
[The Bank of the United States v8. Elizabeth Lee et a.]

beth Lee's, and Richard Smith's answers, severally, were duly
executed, acknowledged, and recorded, and are to be received and
treated as partsof the record in this case.
On these pleadings, exhibits, and admissions, various positions are
assumed as grounds of relief.
The deed of January 9, 1809, recites that Mrs. Lee had executed
a deed to Ludwell Lee, relinquishing her right of dower to the
5000 acres of land in Spotsylvania; whereas, the deed to Ludwell
Lee, relinquishing the dower interest, bears date subsequently, in
Iuly7 1809.

It is insisted for complainants, that the recital was false, and
that this part of the consideration had must be rejected. We do
not think so. The transaction is of nearly thirty years' standing,
and not so open to explanation as a more recent one; it maybe,
that a deed had been executed by Mrs. Lee, as recited, to Ludwell
Lee, and that it was afterwards superseded by another: be this as
it may, Richard Bland Lee was estopped by the recital in his own
deed; and Mrs. Lee's trustees, bound to performance on her part,
supposing the recital to have been untrue. The substance of the
contract was, that she should relinquish her dower interest to
Ludwell Lee; and she did relinquish it, obviously in compliance
with the agreement; and that it was done in July, instead of the
preceding January, is an immaterial circumstance. The husband's
alienee acquired the disencumbered estate in consideration of the
deed sought to be impeached; and in a Court of Equity, cannot deprive the wife of the slaves, without doing equity to -her,by restoring
the lands now beyond our reach; provided the transaction was
bona fide.
The other part of the consideration was the deed, of trust (of
January 9th, 1809) by which the Fairfax estates of Sully and
Lafigley were pledged for the payment of the debt due to Judge
Washington. These estateswcre the separate and sole property of
Mrs. Lee; and not being subject to execution by the laws of Virginia, the creditor had not the slightest claim upon them, and it
would have been most unwise for Mrs. Lee to have onerated them
without ample indemnity.
Judging of the probabilities in 1809, from future results, between
that time and the death of Richard Bland Lee, in 1827, and we are
inclined to conclude, that Mrs. Lee, with the ardour common to her
sex, mistook her true interest in making the exchange of her lands
for the slaves and household goods: that she has been greatly the
sufferer, is free from 0oubt. The Virginia estates have passed into
other hands, to satisfy her husband's creditors: most of the slaves
have been sold to supply his improvidence and necessities: and the
little that is left of the property secured to Mrs. Lee, (down to the
humblest utensil,) is now sought to be appropriated to the satisfac.
tion of the judgment on which the bill is founded.
That the deed of trust to Henry S. Turner, and others, to secure
Judge Washingtoni's debt, was executed in good. faith, is not con

JANUARY TZRM, 1839.

117

[The Bank of the United States vs. Elizabeth Lee et al]

troverted; the objection is, that the debt was paid by means independent of the lands mortgaged; and the mortgage discharged.
The consideration, therefore, given by Mrs. Lee for the slaves and
other property secured to her separate. use, is fully proved; and
was ample when the contract was made; and this is all that
rested upon the respondents to establish, to resist the claim of the
complainants on the first aspect of the bill; that which alleges the
deed to have been fraudulent in its inception.
But an after circumstance is invoked as furnishing evidence
favourable to the complainants.. In the interrogating part of the
bill, the respondents are required to answer, whether the debt mentioned in the deed of 1809, as due to Judge Washington, had ever
been paid; by whom, and from what funds? Edmund J. Leej responds, that he had no distinct recollection on the subject: Mrs.
Lee admits that no sale of the Fairfax lands was made under the
dep~d to Henry S. Turner, n.nd others, but that the eight slaves,
who in such event were to be returned to her husband, had been
disposed of by him, &c. If' Mrs. Lee meant to say, that the trustees had not sold by virtue of the deed of trust for Judge Washington's benefit, then she answered truly; if,however, she is to be understood as answering, that the estates pledged were not applied, in
part, to the extinguishment of the debt, then she was mistaken.
Sully, the homestead, was sold to-Francis Lightfoot Lee, in February 1811, for eighteen thousand dollars; embracing the five hundred acres which was Mrs. Lee's individual property, and including
two hundred and seventeen acres in addition; out of which sum
Judge Washington was paid seven thousand four hundred and fifty
dollars. The estate was not conveyed by the trustees, but by Richard Bland Lee, the respondent Elizabeth, and Bushrod Washington, with covenants of title and warranty. The conveyance upon
its face recites in the fullest manner, that seven thousand four hundred and fifty dollars of the purchase money had been paid by
Francis Lightfoot Lee, to Judge Washington, in discharge of the
balance of debt due to him. There can be little doubt, Mrs. Lee,
in her answer was mistaken, in admitting to her prejudice that the
Fairfax lands had not been appropriated to the payment of Judge
Washington's debt. Her principal object seems to have been to
disavow all claim of title to the eight slaves.
Suppose, however, that Judge Washington's debt had been paid
by other means, and the Fai ,fax lands disencumbered of it; could
the fact influence this cause.
That it could not is manifest. The
complainlnts, by their bill, do not seek to come in under the deed
to Turner, and others; nor under that to Edmund J. Lee, and
others: if they had, and if the fact had been established, that Mrs.
Lee, by the payment of the debts from independent means, retained
her-lands, and the slaves also, then a Court of Equity would treat
her as a trustee for Richard Bland Lee, and let in the complainants
as his assignees, to subject the slaves, &c. to the payment of the
bank debt. But the bill charges that the deed to Edmund J. Lee,

118

SUPREME COURT.
[The Bank of the United States vs. Elizabeth Lee et al.]

,and other,, was fraudulent, and, void, in its inception ; presenting no
case, founded on the subsequent transaction alluded to: and the
Court cannot notice it other than as evidence to fix the fraud on the
respondents in executing the deed sought to be set aside; which if
valid then, must be deemed so now. The capacity of the husband
to contract through the intervention of trustees, with the wife, and
to make a valid conveyance, founded on a bona fide consideration
paid out of the wife's separate estate, has not been questioned; nor
is the doctrine open to controversy.
That a liberal construction should be given to the clause in the
Virginia statute, for the suppression of fraud, we admit; this is the
well established rule in construing the statutes of Elizabeth; which
the first section of the Virginia statute substantially adopts. (Heydon's case, 3 Rep. - 1 Black. Com. 88.) Fitzhugh vs. Anderson,
2 Hen, and Munford, 304.
IOn the second ground on which relief i~ sought, it ioincistod, the
complainants are entitled to have satisfaction out of the property
claimed by Mrs. Lee.
"I. Because the continued possession, use, and enjoyment by
said Richard Bland Lee, of the said property, purported to be conveyed by the deed of 9th January, 1809, was evidenci of a continued ownership, and avoids said deed as against subsequent bona
fide purchasers and creditors, without notice.
"II. Thtt $aid deed, so executed, in Virginia, will not validate
the possession, use, and enjoyment of said property ii the city of
Washington."
The investigation of this assumed ground of relief, involves considerations
the nuptial relation.
We ate affecting
asked to deal with the conduct of a wife, living
in harmony with her husband, as if she was a third person; and to decre against her because she did not expose her husband to the
commumay in which they lived, and especially to the complainants,
when within the wife's knowledge he was holding out her property
as his own; and using of it as his own, and obtaining credit upon
the-.iaith that he was the true and absolute owner.
That Richard Bland Lee did deal with and use the property in
controversy, as if it had been his own, whilst he resided in this city;
and that the community" did believe hin, the true owner, and give
him credit on the faith of the property, is no doubt true; and it is
very probable that Mrs. Lee knew the fact, but continued passive
and silent on the subject. She denies, however, that she had any
knowledge-of the execution of the deed of trust to Richard Smith,
until long after it had been made; and the answer, being responsive
to the allegations in the bill, is :conclusive-of the fact denied; there
being no proof to the contrary;
Was it a duty incumbent on Mrs. Lee to advertise the community
'in which she lived, that her husband had no title to the property on
the faith of which he was obtaining credit; 'but that it was hers ?
This would haVe been charging the husband With fraudulent con-

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

119

[The Bank of the United States vs. Elizabeth Lee et aL]

duct; for it cannot be denied, that if A sells and cenveys his slaves
or'lands, and then produces to another his previous paper title, and
obtains credit upon the goods or lands by pledging them for money
loaned, he is guilty of a fraud; and if the true owner stands by
and does not make his title known, he will be bound to make good
the contract; on the principle that he who holds his peace when
he ought to have spoken, shall not be heard now that he should be
silent. He is deemed in equity a party to the fraud. How far the
principle applies in a case of the wife of a fraudulent vendor standing by, we are not called on to decide; and wish to be understood
as not deciding. - Mrs. Lee's is not that casa; to say the most, she
was only passive and silent, in' regard to her rights generally; although she may have had knowledge that Mr. Lee was obtaining
credit on the faith of her property; and the question is, was it her
duty to have acted otherwise? All we need say. is, that a-Court of
Chancery cannot hold Mrs. Lee responsible, because of her Silence
Then as to the question of possession continuing with the grantor,
Leave the relation of man and wife between Richard Bland Lee
-and Elizabeth Lee, out of view, and it would be impossible that
any one could have been misled by Mrs. Lee having the possession:,
she having the sole and exclusive beneficial interest and right of
possession. The difficulty arises from a circumstance, the existence
of which the statutes of Virginia contemplated and provided for.
By the act of 1785, it is declared, that where any reoervation or
limitation shall be made.of a use, or property, by way of condition,
reversion, remainder, or otherwise, in goods and chattels, the pOs
session whereof shall remain in another, the same shall be, taken,
as to creditors and purchasers of the persons remaining in possession, tb be fraudulent, within the first section of the act; and that
the absolute property is with the possession; unless such reservation
or limitation of a use, or property, is declared by will or by deed,
proved by two witnesses in the general Court, or the 'Cottrt of the
county wherein one of the parties lives, within eight mouths after
the oxecution thereof.
- The statute of Virginia has been
adopted in Tennessee; where
it has been holden, that a deed like the present, founded on a good
consideration, and separating the title from the possession, was
within the statute, and must be recorded: but when recorded, creditors and purchasers of him who retains the possession must take
notice of it; and that the recording exempts the property from
liability to execution. Crenshaw vs. Anthony, Martin and Yerger's
R. 110. The great object of the act was to secure the settlement
of slaves by the intervention of executors, and trustees, so as to retain
them in the family;. and this could be done by a bona fide gift of a
husband,,(not materially indebted at the time,) to a wife or children;
if the deed- was duly recorded, to the exclusion not only of subsequent creditors, but subsequent purchasers also' contrary to the 27th
of Elizabeth; whereby (in the language of the Supreme Court of
Tennessee, in Marshall vs. Booker, I Yerger's R. 15.) "an extra-

SUPREME COURT.
[The Bank of the United States vs. Elizabeth Lee et al.]

vagant, spendthrift husband, may provide for his wife and children,
before they are overtakeij by ruin." But we can say with Lord
Hardwieke, in Russell and Hayward against Hammond, (1 Atk.)
"that we have hardly known one case, where a person conveying
was deeply indebted at the tie of such gift, that it has not been
"deemedfraudulent." 1n Virginia, therefore, the possession of Mrs.
Lee was in accordance *ith the established practice, and is in no
degree subject to imputation.
It is insisted, however, that Avhen Richard Bland Lee removed
into Washington City, the. statute of Maryland operated on the Virginia title of Mrs. Lee, and defeated it for the benefit of purchasers
from her'husband.
The statute declares, that no goods, or chattels, whereof the
vendor shall remain in possession, shall pass, alter, or change, or
any pr6perty thereof be transferred to any purchaser, &c., unless
th& same be by writing, and acknowledged, before one provincial
justice, or one justice of the county where such seller shall reside,
and be within twenty days recorded in the records of the same
county. 1729. ch. 8.see. 5.
The statute has -no reference to a case whiere the title has been
vested by the laws of another state; but operates only on sales,
mortgages, and giftsi made in Maryland. The writing is to be recorded in the same county where the seller shall reside, when iJis
executed. Phe seller, Richard Bland Lee, residing in Virgiaia, it
was impossible for Mrs. Lee to comply with the act. That the
Virginia deed secured to Mrs. Lee the same rights here that it did
in Virginia, we apprehend to be, to some extent, an ddjudged question. It has frequently arisen in the state Courts. The case of
Smith vs. Burch, 3 Harris and Johnson, was this: In 1804, Brodhag
.owed Jones, and gave a deed of trust on slaves to secure the debt
(three thousahd dollars,) executed to Smith, as trustee. The partes
resided in Georgetown, where the act of Maryland of 1729, continued in force after this District was separated from Maryland.
The deed of trust was duly proved, and recorded in the District of
Columbia; Brodhag retaining the possession of the slaves. In
f805, Brodhag removed to Alleghany county, Maryland, and continued in possession of the slaves, as apparent owner, until August
1809, when the sheriff of Alleghany seized on them by virtue of
an execution against Brodhag, in favour of Deakin's executors; and
Smith, the trustee-sued Bruce, the sheriff, in trespass. . In that case
(as in this) Brbdhag ha[ given in the slaves to the assessor of taxes
and had sold*part of them between 1804 and 1809.
The Court of Appeals of Maryland, in substance, held, that the
at of 1729 did not affect the case; and the only proof required to sustain the plaintiff's title, was the bill of sale, (as it is denominated;)
and that itrlay on the defendant'to prove fraud in fact in order to

avoid it.
In 1804 the jurisdaictions exercised in the District of Columbia, ad
the state of Maryland, were as distinct as those of Virginia and the*

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

121

[The Bank of the United States vs. Elizabeth Lee et aLl

District,; so that the case of Burch vs. Smith was similar~in respect

to conflict of jurisdi6tion with the one before the Court.
The same point came up in Tennessee, and met the decision of
the Supreme Court of that state.
The following are the material factsin the Tennessee case:
In 1812, in Lunenberg county, Virginia, Daniel Crenshaw sold
and conveyed certain slaves to Richard Herring, who soon after contracted for the purchase of a tract of land from Daniel Crenshaw,
lying in the same county; but Nancy Crenshaw, the wife of Daniel,
refused to relinquish her right of dower: and to induce her to do
so, Herring agreed with her and her son, Cornelius Crenshaw, to
convey to the latter, in trust for his mother, and for her separate use,
two of the slaves previously purchased from Daniel Crenshaw. The
deed was duly executed and recorded in Lunenburg.
Iji 1814 Daniel Crenshaw and his wife removed to Tennessee,
carrying the slaves with them; Cornelius the trustee continuing -to
reside in Virginia.
In Tennessee, to all appearance, Daniel Crenshaw was the true
owner of the slaves, and acquired credit on the faith of the property.
He Nfas improvident, for which reason, manifestly, the wife caused
the slaves to be secured to herself: and it may be remarked that
similar motives have led to many, not to say most of this description
of conveyances in the states where the provisions of the act of 1785
of Virginia, prevail.
In 182 1, Stacy recovered a j udgment against Daniel Crenshaw in
the county of his residence in Tennessee, by virtue of an execution,
founded on which Anthony, the sheriff, seized upon the slaves;
and Cornelius.Crenshaw, as his mother's trustee, sued the sheriff in
detinue. The Circuit Court held the deed of trust void by force~of
the statute of Tennessee, (which is very nearly a transcript of that
of Virginia,) because the deed had not been recorded ift Tennessee;
a verdict was rendered for the defendant; and the plaintiff prosecuted
his writ of error to the Supreme Court, where the judgment was
reversed.
The Court held, that the deed made in Virginia, separating the
title and possession, was of a character to be operated upon by the
act of 1785 of Virginia; and had the deed not been recorded there,
as to creditors and purchasers, the title wouid have been deemed to
be with the possession: but having been recorded there, a title fair
and unimpeachable, vested in the trustee, and cestui que trust, Nancy;
that being valid in Virginia, the statute of Tennessee could not affect
it. Furthermorb:
The Court refused to hold the wife responsible, because she had
continued passive and silent in regard to her separate right to the
slaves; by which individuals might have been, and in all probability
were, induced to believe her husband the true owner, and to give
him 'credit on the faith of the property. In that case, as in this, the
wife had done no affirmative act, designedly to draw in the creditor
to trust her husband ; and the Court believed, by remaining silent
16
VOL. XIII.-L

122

SUPREME COURT.
(The Bank of the United States vs. Elizabeth Lee et al.J

she had violated no duty; nor been guilty of any deceit on which a
forfeiture of her right could be pronounced.
The deed in controversy is also embraced by the 4th section of
the statute of Virginia, which, amongst other things, provides for
the recording of all deeds of trust and mortgages, upon acknowledgment or.proof according to the directions of the act; it having been
holden by the Courts of Virginia, and this Court, (3 Hen. and Mun.
232; 3 Cranch. 150,) that deeds conveying chattels are included
within the section referred to. And the deed vesting the property
in Mrs. Lee's trustees, having been duly recorded in the manner required by the statute, it was effectual according to the laws of Virginia, to protect the title against subsequent creditors of, or purchasers from, Richard Bland Lee.
Upon the whole, we are of opinion the decree below dismissing
the bill, should be affirmed.

Mr. Justice BALDWIN dissented.
Mr. Justice THoMPsox did not sit in this cause.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from
the Circuit Court of the United States, for the District of Columbia,
holden in and for the county of Washington, and was argued by
counsel. In consideration whereof, it is decreed and ordered by
this Court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court in this cause be,
and.the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs.

