SUPREME COURT.

ToE

UNITED

STATES,

APPELLANT, VS.
APPELLEE.

WILLIAM

DRUMMOND,

A concession was made by the Governor of Florida, before Florida was ceded to the United
States, on condition that the grantee should erect a water sawmill, "and with the precise
condition, that until he executes the said machinery, the grant to be considered void, and
without effect, until that event takes place." The mill was never erected ; and no suffident reason shown for its
non-erection. The Court held that the concession gave no
title to the land.

APPEAL from the Superior Court of East Florida.
Mr. Grundy, Attorney General of the United States, submitted
this case to the Court, alleging that the claimant relies on a concession made by Governor Coppinger for 16,000 acres of land, dated
September 12th, 1816. The grant is upon a condition, namely, the
-erection of a-water sawmill; "and with the *precise condition that
until he executes said machinery, this grant will be considered as
null and void, and without effect or value until that event takes
place," &c.
The mill was never erected. No sufficient reason is shown for
its non-erection.
It is insisted that the erection of the mill is a conlition precedent;
and, consequently, that until the claimant shows a performance of
that condition, or some reason for non-performance, which will
satisfy the terms of the eighth article of the treaty ceding Florida to
the United Stafes, he has no title in law or equity.
This case is believed to be fully decided against the claimants by
"the decisions of this Court at its last term; in the cases of the United
States vs. Mills's heirs, 12 Peters, 215; and United States vs. Kingsley, 12 Peters, 476.
Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the Court.This case, like that of the United States vs. Andrew Burgeon, is
controlled by the decision of this Court in the case of the United
States vs. Kingsley, 12 Peters, .476. The decree of the Superior
Court of East Florida is therefore reversed.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Superior Court for the district of East Florida, and was
argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is the opinion of
this Court, that the petitioner having failed to fulfil the condition
of the grant, that the: said grant or concession is null and void; and
that the said petitioner has no right or title to the land. Whereupon
it is now here decreed and ordered by this Court, that the decree
of the said Superior Court in this cause be, and the same is hereby
reversed and annulled; and that this cause be, and the same is
hereby, remanded to the said Superior Court, with directions to
enter a decree in conformity to the opinion of this Court.

