JANUARY TERM, 1839.

THE UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS, vs. ANDREW BURGEVIN,
APPEiLEE.
A grant of land in East Florida, by the Spanish governor, on the condition that a water
sawmill should be erected on the land, declared void; the bondition of thle grant not
having been performed according to the terms of the grant.

APPEAL from the Superior Court of East Florida.
Andrew Burgevin, on the 21st day of May, 1829, presented a
petition to th judge of the Superior Court for the district of East
Florida, claiming a tract of land of five miles square, or sixteen
thousaiid acres, situated in the district of East Florida; under a'title
derived from a grant made to him by -the Spanish governmnt. on
the 13th day of January, 1818.
The petition addressed by Andrew Burgevin to Governor Coppinger, asked for the grant for the purpose of erecting a water sawmill on the same; with a view not only to remedy the notable want
of lumber which is felt at that place, but also to supply the export
trade of'that article, so much recommended to the government of
Florida, by the superior authority of -.Havana.
The grant was made to Andrew Burgevin, in consideration of the
advantages and benefit which the province would receive from the
proposed establishment; "with the precise condition that, until he
erects said machinery, said grant will be considered as null and
-oid, and without effect or value until such an event takes place."
The answer of the District Attorney of the United States, among.
other objections to the allowance of the claim, states that the con.
dition of, th, grant has not been complied with by the grailtee-"that the said Andrew' Burgevin has not built, constructed, or
erected tho Said water sawmill on the said tract of land; but that he
has alw ays hitherto wholly failed and neglected t9 construct or erect
the same; or to comply with and perform the said conditions in any
Way or manner whatever. The answer denies that the said Andrew
Burgevin has been prevented from constructing and erecting said
mill and proceeding in the objects of said grant, owing to the general disturbed and unsettled state of. the country; and farther, if any
such disturbea,' and unsettled state of the country at any time existed, it was merely temporary, and of very short continuance;
whereas, more than eleven years have elapsed (as appears by the
showing of the said Andrew Burgevin himself) since the date of
the said supposed grant; during any pqrt of which period he might,
with due and reasonable diligence, have proceeded to erect and con.struct the said water sawmill on the said tract of land, in accordance with the objects of said supposed grant."
The Superior Court of East Floridagave a decree in favour of
the petitioner, and the United States prosecuted this appeal.
The case was argued by Mr. Grundy, Attorney General of the
VOL+. XIII.-H

86

SUPREME COURT.
[The United gtates vs. 'Andrew Burgevin.]

United States, and Mr. Dent 'for the appellants; and by Coxe for
the appellee.
Mr. Dent for the United States cited The United States vs. Mills's
heirs, 12 Peters, 215. The United States vs. Kingsley, 12 Peters,
476. The question before the Court in these cases was precisely
the same as that in the present case; and this Court refused to confirm the grant.
This Court has said it will apply the most liberal rules of equity
to the condition of Spanish grants; but in this case there is no room
for the application of any such rules. -The grantee has not performed the condition of the grant; nor did he during all the period
which passed after the grant, make an attempt to perform it.
, In the United States vs. Kingsley the same excuse for the. nonperformance was offered: "the disturbed state of the country;" and
itvwas overruled. This grant was made within six months of the
cessi6n of Florida to the United States. This Court has allowed six
months for the performance of such conditions; and by the Spanish
law the same period was allowed.
Coxe for the appellee contended, that the disturbed situation
of the country, by Indians, prevented the erection of the mill contemplated by the grantee. He cited Huidek6per vs. Douglass,
1 Wash. C. C. R. 258.
The Attorney General, in reply, stated that if this grant should
be confirmed, there would be no limitation to claims for lands in
Florida. There was a propqsition to erect a water sawmill on the
land; and the Governor of Florida declared the grant should be
void, if the mill should not be erected.
Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is an appeal from the Supreme Court of the Eastern District
of Florida, confirming the right of the appellee to a tract of land
under a concession or grant from the Governor of Florida, dated
before the treaty of the 22d February, 1819, between the United
States and Spain.
We think the concession or grant identical with that in Kingsley's case, in 12 Peters, 476 ; and that it is controlled by the principles laid down by the Court in that case. Kingsley's case was
well considered by this Court-has been reconsidered maturely upon
the argument of counsel made in the case before us-but we see
no reason fo modify or change, in any particular, what was then
decidled; or why this case should be taken out of the application of
that case., The decree of the Superior Court of East Florida is
therefore reversed.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record,
from the Superidr Court for the district of Ea~t Florida, and was

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

87

LThe United States vs. Andrew Burgevin.]

argued by counseli On consileration whereof, it is the opinion of
this Court, that the petitioner aaving failed to fulfil the condition of
the grant, that the said granit or concession is null and void; and
that the said petitioner has sio right or title to the land. Whereupon
it is now here decreed and ordered, by this Court, that the decree
of the said Superior Court, in this cause be, and the same is hereby,
reversed and annulled; and that this cause be, and the same is
hereby, remanded to the said Superior Court, with directions to enter
a decree in conformity to the opinion of this Court.

