:SUPREME COURT.

CAREY BAGNELL AND THE EXECUTORS OF MORGAIN BYRNE, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, Vs. GEORGE W. BRODERICK, DEFENDANT IN
ERROR.

The plaintiff in error had exhibited, in an action instituted against him in the Circuit Court
of Missouri, evidence conducing to prove that a patent from the United States, under which
the plaintiff in the ejectment, the defendant in error, claimed the land, had been im.
properly granted by the government of the United States, and that the title to the land
was in him. Held, that in an action at law the patent from the United States for part of
the public lands is conclusive. If those who claim to hold the land against the patent cal
show that it issued "byMistake, then tlA equity side of the Circuit Court is the proper
forum; and a bill in Chancery is the proper remedy to invdstigate the equities of the parties.
Congress has the sole power to declare the dignity and effect of titles emanating from the
United States; and the whole legislation of the government in reference to the public
lands declares the patent to be'the superior and conclusive evidence of legal title. Until
it issues thp fee is in the government; which by the patent passes to the grantee, and he
is entitled to recover the possession in ejectment.
The practice of giving in evidence a special entry in aid of a patent, and dating the legal
title from the date of the entry, is familiar in some of the states, and especially in Tennessee. Yet the entry can only come in aid of the legal title, and-is no evidence of such
title standing alone, when opposed to a patent for the same land.
The presumption is that the judgment of the Circuit Court is proper, and it lies on the
plaintiff in error to show the contrary.
When the title to the public land has passed out of the United States by conflicting
patents, there can be no objection to the practice adopted by the Courts of a state to
give effect to the better right, in any form of remedy the legislature or Courts of the
state may prescribe.
No doubt is entertaifed of the power of the states to pass laws authorizing purchasers
of lands from the United States to prosecute actions of ejectment upon certificates of
purchase, against trespassers on the lands purchased; but it is denied that the states have
any power to declare certificates of purchase of equal dignity with a patent. Congress
alone can ,lve them such effect.

IN error to the Circlit Court of the United' States for the District
of Missouri.
This was an action of ejectment for a tract of land in the state ofMissouri, instituted by Ge orge W. Broderick against Bagnell, the
defendant, the tenant in possession; and in the progress of the
cause, Morgan Byrne, the landlord, was made co-defendant, and he
dying, his executors were substituted.
Other actions of ejectment. were at the same time instituted by
George W: Broderick, for parts of the said 'tract in the possession of
M'Cunie, and of Sampson; and the executors of Morgan Byrne
became in the same manner co-defendants in the cases.. A verdict, in
conformity to the opinion of the Circuit Court, having been given
for the plaintiff in each of the cases, on the 10th of April, 1838, the
defendants prosecuted writs of error to the Supreme Court ; bills of
exceptions having been sealed by the Court.
The bills of exceptions show that on the trial of these cases the
plaintiff below read in evidence a copy of the patent from the
United States to John Robertson, Jr. dated 17th June, 1820, for the
tract of land mentioned in the above statements, which, reciting that

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

47

[Bagnoll et al. vs. Broderick.)

John Robertson, Jr. had deposited in the general land office a certificate, numbered 192, of the recorder of land tides at St. Louis, Missouri; whereby it appeared that in pursuance of an act of Congress
passed 17th February, 1815, entitled, "An act for the relief of the
inhabitants of the late county of New Madrid, in the Missouri territory, who suffered by earthquakes," the said John Robertson, Jr.
was confirmed in his claim for 640 acres of land, being survey No.
2810, and section 3P, township 5.0 north, and range 15 west of 5th
principal meridian ; and the United States granted to John Robertson, Jr. in fee, the tract of land described above. Also a deed from
John Robertson, Jr. to Augustus H. Evans, dated 16th November,
1830,conveying the same tract of land to the said Evaus in fee,
expressly stipulating, however, against any warranty. Also a deed,
from Augustus H. Evans to George W. Broderick, the plaintiff be,
low, now defendant in error, dated 7th June, 18.30, conveying the
same tract of land to the said Broderick in fee, and proved possession of the premises by the defendants below; at the commencement
of the suits respectively, and here closed his testimony.
That the defendants below, now plaintiffs in error, read in evidence
a transcript' of a notice to the recorder of land titles for the United
States at St. Louis, taken from the records of the office of the recorder, given by John Robertson, Jr., whibh states that he claims
750 arpens of land in the Big Prairie, on the ground of inhabitation
and cultivation, prior to and on 20th December, 1803, by and with
the consent of the proper -Spanish officer.
Also a copy of proceedings had before the board of commissioners
on l'nd claims, on the 11th July, 1811, taken from the minutes of
the proceedings of the hoard for ascertaining and adjusting the titles
and claims to lands, which shows that on 'the claim of John Robertson, Jr. for 750 arpens of land in the Big Prairie, the board granted
to John Robertson, Jr: 200 arpens of land. Also a transcript of opinion, and report of the reco ,der of land titles of the United States at
St. Louis, made 1st November, 1815, which, in connexion with act of
Congress of 29th April, 1816, entitled, "An act for the confirmation
of certain claims of land in the western district of the state of Louisiaiaa, and in the territory of Missouri," (see sec. 2 of this act,) shows
that the confirmation of 200 arpens, parcel of the claim of John Robertson, Jr. for 750 arpens of land in the Big Prairie, made by the
board of Commissioners aforesaid, was extended to 640 acres, and this
quantity, 640 acres, was accordingly confirmed to him. Also a deed
from John Robertson, Jr. to Edward Robertson, Sr. dated 29th May,
1809, conveyiag the said 750 arperis of land to the said Edward
Robertson, Sr. in fee ; reciting in same conveyance that 330 arpen.s
of the said 750 arpenshad been surveyed, and how; and specifying
the manner of laying' off the residue, and authorizing the said Edward Robertson to apply for and receive from government or the
proper authorities, a patent in his -own name for samie; and coveEanting on behalf of himself and his heirs, to warrant the title
2..o.

438

SUPREME COURT,
vs.Broderick.]
[Bagnell et al.

against all persons claiming under, through, or by the vendor. Also
a deed from Edward Robertson, Sr. to Morgan Byrne, dated 30th
October, 1813, .conveying to the said Byrne, in fee, 300 arpens of
land out of a tract of land the head right of John Robertson, Jr.
situated and being in the Big Prairie, bounding the part conveyed,
parcel of the 750 arpens above described; and covenanting for himself and his heirs to warrant and defend the title against all claims
whatever Also a deed from Edward Robertson, Sr. to Morgan
Byrne, dated 11th September, 1816, conveying to the said Byrne in
fee 250 arpens of land, part of the head right of John Robertson, Jr.
of 7-50 arpens, situated in the Big Prairie, and containing a covenant
Also
a copyand
of deed
Edward
Sr.allto claims
William
to warrant
theRobertson,
title against
whatever.
Shelby,
for himself
heirs, fhom
dated 29th October, 1816, conveying to the said Shelby in fee_ two
hundred arpens of land bounding the same, parcel of the head right
of John Robertson, Jr., (and parcel of the 750 arpens above described,-) and containing a covenant of general warrantv. Also a
copy of deed from William Shelby to Levi Grimes, datid 2d December, 1816, conveying to the said Grimes in fee the 200 arpens
of land next above described, and containing a covenant of. general
warranty.
Also a deed from Levi Grimes to Morgan Byrne, dated 26th
February, 1817, conveying to the said Byrne in-fee the 200 arpens
of land next above described, and containing a special warranty.
The defendants also- produced in evidence an extract from registry of relinquishments, in bffice of recorder of land titles for'the
United States at St. Louis, of lands materially injured by earthquakes, under the act of Congress of 17th February,. 1815; which
shows that the confirmation aforesaid to John Robertson,- Jr. for 640
acres, situated in the Big Prairie, was relinquishedby Morgan Byrne,
as the legal representative of John Robertson, Jr., and on sueh relinquishment the location certificate No: 448 issued.
Also a copy of certificate of location, dated September, 1818, and
numbered 448, issued by recorder of land titles of United States at
St. Louis, Which certifies that a tract of 640 acres of land situated in
the Big Prairie was materially injured 6y earthquakes, and that in conformity with the provisions .ofthe act of Congress of 17th February,
1815, the said John Robertson, Jr., (reciting that he appears from
the books of his office, recorder of land, titles of United States, to be
the owner,) or his legal representatives, was entitled to locate 640
acres of land on any of -the public lands, &e. 'Also a copy of thd
location under the. foregoing ceritificate o location, made 8th October, 1818,. which shows that Morgan Byrne, as the legal representative of John" Robertson, Jr., entered and located 640 acres of land,,
by virtue of. the certificate of location, commonly called a New
Madrid certificatV, issued.by the recorder of land titles of the United
States at 'St. Louis, dated September, 1818, and nunbered 44$, so
as. to.inclde.•.ctin INo. 32.,.
towwhiD . 50- noth, range 15 '-wst of

JANUARY TERM, 1889.

499

[BagseIl'et al. vs. Droderick.)

5th principal meridian, (the same premises in dispute;) and here
the defendants below closed their testimony.
The plaintiff below then read in evidence, a copy of notice by
John Robertson, Jr., of claim for 330 arpens, and proceedings on
same had before the board of commissioners of land claims, o 24th
March, 1806, and 15th August, 1811, which show' that, John Robertson, Jr. filed a notice of claim for 330 arpens, situated in the district
of New Madrid, under the second section of the cftof Congress of
March, 1805, accompanied by q plat of survey of 330 arpens, made
by, bne Joseph Story, at requeis of John Roberison, Jr., (as the same
purports,) who, as the survey recites, claimed the same as part of'
his settlement right, by virtue of the second section of theact of Congress, of'March, 1805; that the board of commissioners on'the'24th
March, 1806, grant to claimant 750 arpens, and, on the T'5th Allgust, 1811, reject the claim entirely, saying the claim' ought not to
be granted. Also, a transcript of'opinion, and report of the recorder
of land titles of United States, at St. Louis, niadeist November,1815,
which, in connexion with the act of Congress of 29th April, 1816,
before referred to, shows that -the claim of John Robertson, for 330
arpens, was confirmed to him, and 330 arpens accordingly granted.
Also, a copy of certificate of location in favour of John Robertson, Jr.
or his legal representatives, dated 18th September, L818, and numbered 447, issued by the recorder of land titles 'or the United States,
at St. Louis, 'which certifies that a tract ofr 330 arpens of land situated on lak6 St. Marie, had been materially injured by earthquakes,
and that in conformity with the provisions of the'act of Congressl
of 17th February,' 1815, the said John Robertson, Jr., reciting- that
he appears from the books of his office, recorder of land titles of the
United States, to be the- wner, or his legal representatives, was entitled io locate 330 arpens of land, &c.
The defendants below then read in evidence, an extract from Xegistry of -relinquishments, in the office of recorder of land titles of
the' United States, at St. Louis, of lands materially injured by earthquakes,uiider the- act of Congress of 17th February, 1815, which
showsthat the confirmation aforesaid, of 330 arpens to John Robertson, Jr., was.relinquished by James Tanner, as his lejal' representative, and. that on stch relinquishment the location certificate,
No. 447, issued. Also, a certificate of the recorder of land 'titles
aforesaid, that from entries made in the booksof his office of New
Madrid location certificates issued, the certificate of .location .No,.
447, was delivered 'to one Jacoby, for James Tanner, and certificatj
of location No. 448, was delivered to Morgan Byrne; and proved
that the premises in dispute in each case, was of the value of three
thousand dollars: which closed and was all the evidence given in
the causes.
Upon the case made, the defendants below moved the Court to
instruct the jury as follows:
1. That the entry or No*w Madrid locatJion, made by Morgan

440

SIJPREME COURT.
[Bagnell et al. vs. Broderick.]

Byrne in his own name, as given in evidence in these cases, is proof
of legal title to the land; and is a sufficient defence against all persons who do not show 4 better legal title to the same land.
2. That the patent a copy of which has been given in eyidence
by the plaintiff, did not vest, in the patentee any better legal right
to the land in question than he had before the date thereof, as
against the defendants'claiming the same land adversely by other
title.
3. That after the entry and before the patent, Morgan Byrne had
a legal title to the land- in question, safficient to enable him to prosecute or defend an action of ejectment therefor: And that the
issuing of the patent could not divest that title.
4. That if the jury believe the patent, a copy of which has been
offered in evidence by the plaintiff, issued on the location made by
Morgan Byrne, and shown in evidence on the part of the defendants
in these cases; the patent is not such title as will avail against the
location.
All which instructions the Court refused: to which refusal exceptions were taken.
Mr. Beverly Allen submitted a printed argument for the plaintiffs
in, error.
The errors assigned are, besides the general assignment, four; answering respectively to the'refusal of the Court to give the four instructions prayed : and a fifth, that the jildgment against the executors of Byrne, was de bonis propriis, whereas, it should have been
de bonis testatoris.
It appears from the testimony in the three cases, that Morgan
Byrne, the landlord and testator was the owner of the land in New
Madrid, which was injured by earthquakes; that he applied for and
obtained the certificate of location No. 448, relinquishing his land
in New Madrid, in lieu of which this certificate issued by the United
States, and was located in his own name on the tract of.land in dispute, in virtue of certificate No. 448; that upon his lqcation, a patent
certificate issued, and on this certificate a patent issued to Johni Robertson, Jr., the same person who once owned the land in'New
Madrid, relinquished by Byrne and under whom Byrne claimeC.
that ld;
That the plaintiff, derives title to the oland in dispute,
from Johni Robertson, Jr., by deeds executed since the issue of the
patent; and being such owner, instituted these actions of 6jectment
to recover the possession of the land located as aforesaid by Byrne.
The question is, whether in such a case and on such a statementof facts, John Robertson, Jr. the patentee, or George W. Broderick,
his assignee, can recover against Morgan. Byrne, the locator of the
land, or his representatives. *The plaintiffs in error, contend that
the patentee and his assignee cannot; and rely on the following
grounds :
,1. The title of Morgaii Byrne was sufficient to maintain an a e,

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

441

(Bagnell et al. vs. Brodfrick.]

tion 6f ejectment.

See Revised Code of Missouri, of 1825, page
343,'sec. 2d, in force, at commencoment of these suits.* And Re,vised Code of Missouri, of,1835, page 234, 235, sec. 1, 2, and 9, in
force at trial of same.t
2. That whatever was sufficient to maintain, must be sufficient
to defend an action of ejectment. This is a corollary from the first
ground. If these two points are well taken, the first special error is
well assigned.
3. That the patent is not, in this case, and on this statement of
facts,- the "better title" contemplated by the acts of assembly referred to,
As to the first point, argument cannot elucidate the words of the
law. Its -meaning is evident, and the first rule of construction is
not to construe that which needs no construction.
As to the second point. The coriectness of this is necessarily implied in the language and spirit of the law. It is a sequence from
the first. If the title of Byrne was such as would enable him to
maintain an action of ejectment and recover possession, it would be
* "Sec. 2. Be it further enacted, that any person claiming lands or tenements, by virtue
of any pre-emption right, New Madrid location, entry with the register and receiver, confirmation by the board of commissioners of land claims, for the territory of Missouri, or
by the secorder of land titles, or by concession not exceeding one league square, or by settlement right, or other right, where such right or concession has been confirmed by the
commissioners aforesaid, or recorder aforesaid, or by any act of Congress: or where the
same is held by deed, patent, entry, warrant, or survey, being confirmed as aforespid; or
by any French or Spanish grant, warrant, or order of survey, which prior to the tenth day
of March, one thousand eight hundred and four, had been surveyed by proper authority,
under the French or Spanish governments, and recorded according to the custom, and
usages of the country, although such person may not be in the actual possession; or if the
same shall'have been actually surveyed, by authority of the United States, since. the tenth
day of March, one thousand eight hundrell and four, or by any proper officer, under the
French or Spanish governments, prior to the said tenth day of March, one thousand eight
hundred and four, sugh person shall and may maintain actions of ejectment or trespass, in
any Court having jurisdiction thereof, against any person not having a better title: and in
all actions of ejectment, where a verdict shall be found for the plaintiff, the jury shall also
find damages for the mesne profits, up to the time of rendering the verdict: Provided,
however, That mesne profits, shall not be recovered for any time prior to the commencement of the suit, unless the plaintiff shall prove that the defendant had knowledge of his,
clain; and then only from the time of such knowledge coming from the defendant."
t ,' See. -1. The action of ejectm.fnt may be maintained in all cases when the plaintiff is
legally entitled to the possession of the premqises.
"See. 2. The action of ejedtment may also be maintained in all cases where the plaintiff'
claims possession of the premises, against any person not having a better title thereto, under or by virtue of,
First, An entry with the register and receiver of any land office of the United States, or
with the commissioner of the general land office thereof; or,
Second, A pre-emption right under the laws of the United States; or,
Third, A New Madrid location; or,.
Fourth, A confirmation made under the laws of the United States; or,
Fifth, A French or Spanish grant, warrant, or order of survey, surveyed by proper authority under the Fxench or Spanish governments, and recorded according to the usages of
the country, prior to the tenth day of March, eighteen hundred and four."
"Sec. 9. To entitle the plaintiff to recover, it shall be-sufficient for him to show, that, at
the time of the commencement of the action the defendant was in possession of the premises claimed, and that the 'plaintiff had such right to the possessioA' thereof, as is declared,
by this act to be sufficient to maintain the action."

56

442

SUPREME9 COURT.
[Bagnell eta v8. Broderick.]

absurd not to hold it to be sufficient to maintain that possession wher.
recovered.
As to the third point. Here the inquiry arises what is the meaning-of the phrase "better title" in the acts of assembly referred to.
A titlo is thus defined by Lord Coke, 1 Inst. 345: "Titulus est
justa causa possidendi id qub' nostrum est.'.. Or by Blackstone,
Black. Com. vol, ii. p. 195: "It is the means whereby the owner
,of lands hath the, just possession of his property."
What this
"justa causa" or "means" ' is, must, in all countries, depend on the
law of the country where the subject-of the title is' situated. United
States vs. Crosby, 7 Cranch, 115. Clark vs. Graham, 6 Wheat. 567.
Kerr vs. Devisees of MoOn, 9 Wheat 565. M'Cormick et al, vs.
Sullivan et al. 10 Wheat. 192. The "justa causa" or "means" is
nothing more than those indicia of ownership which are recognised
by the laws of the country as evidence of right. Title is by descent
or purchase. The indicia of the former is heirship, of the latter any
of those modes of acquiring property which are recognised by law.
The laws of Missouri, where lies the Property in dispute, recognise
the- entry or location of land, as in this case,-to be a mode of acquiring pr.operty, and an evidence of right in the locator They also
recogmse a patent to 'be a mode of acquiring property, and an evidence of right. We have then an indicium of ownership in Morgan Byruedand an indicium of ownership in John Robertson, Jr.-:
and these indicia of ownership are considered by the laws of Missouri such evidence of right as, will enable either to maintain or
defend an action of ejectment. Morgan Byrne had, in this case, the
possession, the right of possession, and the right of property, which
together constitute a -completely good title, denominated a double
right "jus duplicatm," or droit droit." Black Com. vol. ii. p. 199.
In: him was the "juris et seisina coxjunctio" which constitute the
title completely legal, or a perfect title. Kent's Com. Lee. 65.
It may be admitted that'a patent is' considered in law. a higher
species of evidence of right, but that can avail tiothing in this -case,
where the evidence of right in the other party is sufficient to maintain or defend the action of ejectment. The words of the law are
not "against any person not having a 'title thereto, proved by a
higher. species of evidence,' but "against any person not having a
better title thereto ;' that is; an indiciuln of ownership. recognised
by the law -as evidence of a better right. It then necessarily follows,
that in the construction of the words "better title" we must look
not at the species of evidence of the title; but to the justness of the
title.
On looking into the titles of these two contending claimants, the
patentee and the locator, we find they both'have the same origin:
they both originate in the relinquishment made by Morgan Byrne
and the certificate of location No. 448; and now, which of the two
has the better title, or more just title -to the land located under the
certificate, Morgan Byrne, whose land was relinquished, or John
Robertson, Jr. who.had no interest'in the land relinquished-; Byrne,

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

443

[Bagnhel et al. vs. Brodedck.]

who was interested in and made the location, or Robertson, Jr., who
had no interest therein, was no party to it, and who had previously
sold and conveyed to him, under whom Byrne claimed the land
thus relinquished, and in virtue of which relinquishment Byrne
made that location? Seeing then both to have those evidences of
right recognised by. the law to be sufficient to maintain or defend
an ejectment, the justness of the title of Robertson, Jr., nust be examined. On this examination it will be found that Robertson, Jr.,
shows no title better than Byrne's; and failing in this, Broderick, the
assianee of Robertson, Jr., cannot recover against the tenant and
representatives of Byrne,
There has been no adjudication by the Supreme Court of Missouri, what is meant by the words "better title."? In the case of
the administrators of Janis vs. Guerno, 4 Miss. Rep. 458, the Court
says, "what shall be considered a better title, the act does not define.
It surely does not mean -that the bare possession of the defendant
shall be so considered. We understand then that .the meaning of
thd act is, that when the plaintiff produces a confirmation of the
land to himself, he has made out his case, and will be entitled to
recover unless the defendant can show a better title. What in all
cases, or indeed what would be a better title in any case, need not
be now decided."
Titles are legal or equitable, predicated on that distinction known
in many of the states, of the Union between law and equity. The
former are subjects of "examination in Courts of law, and the latter
in Courts of equity. In those states, of which Missouri is one, legal
titles are the subject of examination in Courts of law, equitable in
Courts of equity, whether a title be legal or equitable , that 'is, whether it be the subject of examination in a Court of law or equity:
the foundation of a proceeding in one- Court or' the other depends
on the statute of the state where the tribunal is situated in which the
examination or proceeding is had,. Robinson vs. Campbell, 3 Wheat.
212. Society for the propagation of the gospel vs. Wheeler'et al.
2 Gallis. 105. In Missouri the title of Morgan Byrne is tbe sLbject
of e~tamination, and the foundation of a proceeding in a Court of
law. It is a title on which an ejectment, which by the law of Missouri is a legal proceeding, may be mantained or defended, and is
therefore a legal title, and will be so considered in the Courts of the
United States, 6onformably to the decision in Robinson vs. Campbell, 3 Wheat. 12. There is then before the Court in these cases
a legal title in both plaintiffs and defendant in error, and the inquiry
again recurs which has the better title; not which has the higher
species of evidence of title, but which in point of justness of superior
right should prevail. What has already been said shows that Byrne,
who owned the land in New Madrid, relinquished the spame tothe
United States and made the location, has a more just and superior
right, in other words, a better title, to the land located than. John
Robertson, Jr., original owner of the land in New Madrid, who sold
the same to Edward Robertson, Sr., ulnder whom Byrne claimed

444

SUPREME COURT.
vs;- Broderick,]
[Bagnell etal.

the same, who had no agency in 4he relinquishment, no interest in
the land relinquished, and no right to the land located by Byrne
anterior to the issuing of the patent. In other words, by Byrne's
act the land in dispute was severed from the domain of the United
States, and by him appropriated with the consent of the United
States, by him purchased for a good and valuable consideration
from the. United States, by him acquired in an exchange with the
Un ited States.

He gave other lands for it to the United States.

From the moment of the location it became -his-the United States
had no title to it at the date of the patent. See act of Congress, 17
Feb. 1815, sec. 2, proviso 2. The title was in Byrne, and that title
was such as enabled Byrne to institute in the Courts of law of Missouri an action of ejectment; and it is submitted, whether under
these circumstances it can be said that the title of John Robertson,
Jr.1 is better than, the title of Morgan Byrne: whether a patent
issuing from the United States to John Rbbertson, Jr., for land they
had previously disposed of, can prevail against Byrne, to whom it
was so disposed, and this disposition-being recognised by the laws
of Missouri as a title on which to maintain an ejectment. Our
stotute requires that in actions of ejectment an examination be made
into the successive gradations of title, or the various evidences of
title to land in a contest betxween two persons claiming the same land,
whenever those gradations or evidences are recognised by the law
as legal titles, or titles on which an ejectment may be maintained
or defended. This is all that is insisted on in these cases. It is not
asked to maintain or defend an ejectment on an equitable title, nor
to look behind the patent as to the regularity of the steps from the
first to the last ending with the issue of the patent; but to ascertain
who, had the prior legal right, that right on which an ejectnent
might be maintained or defended. The plaintiffs in error feel confident that on such examination their right will be found to be a
legal and prior right; being legal, it is examinable in a Court of
law, is the foundation of a legal proceeding, is sufficient to maintain
or defend an action of ejeqtment; and, being prior in time, is more
powerful in law and right, and must prevail against the right of the
defendant in error, which, though legal, is posterior in time. But
if it should be said that'the patent is the legal title, and the location
an equitable title, yet the statute of Missouri making this equitable
title examinable in a Court of Law, and giving it that dignity which
authorizes an action of ejectment to be maintained or defended on
*it,the Courts of the United States, are bound to give it the same
dignity' and when they find it possessing the effect ascribed to it by
the 'laws of Missouri, to give to it the like preference over the patent
in this case, that the Courts of Tennessee and the Supreme Court of
the United States, following those Courts, give to the junior patent
founded on an elder entry over an elder patent founded on a junior
entry. Polk's lessee vs. Wendall, 9 Cranch, 87.
The decision of the Supreme Court of the United States that a
patent is a title from its date, and conclusive against all those whose

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

'445

[Bagnell et al. vs. Broderick.]

rights do not commence previous to its emanation, 7 Wheat. 212,
implies that there'may be rights commencing anterior to the patent.
Is there a right, in these cases, commencing anterior to the date of
the patent? The location was anterior, and gives a right. Is this
anterior right examinable in a Court of law?" The statute of Missouri makes it so examinable; and being so, whenever a contest
arises between a patent and an anterior location, this location, whether a legal or an equitable right, must in the construction of the
statute of Missouri, have its effect; and, if of a merit superior to the
patent, have the same effect' it would have in a Court of equity and
prevail over the- patent. Finley vs. Williams et al., 9 Cranch, 164.
McArthur vs. Browder, 4 Wheat. 488.
I If the preceding views be correct, the general and first four special
errors are well assigned.
As to the fifth special error. There is no such thing known to
the law or in the practice of the law in'the Courts of Missouri, as
those pleas peculiar to an executor or administrator growing out of
the matter of assets. In Missouri no-execution issues against an
executor or administrator sued as such, unless specially sued for a
devastavit, or on his bond as such. All demands, no matter of what
dignity, are presented to the Court having cognizance over the administration of estates, by whom they are classed; and at the annual
settlements of the administrators or executors, that portion of-the
assets which consists of money, is apportioned among the creditors:
and thus and not otherwise are demands, whether by simple con'
tract, by specialty or by judgment, against an estate collected. For
all defaults on the part of an executor or administrator, a suggestion
of a devastavit is made and tried in the Court having cognizance
of the administration of estates, or the bond of the executor or adrministrator is put in suit. Judgments predicated on the false pleading of the executor or administrator, aa technically understood in
the laws of England, are unknown to the law or in its practice in
Missouri. See Revised Code of Missouri of 1835, title. Adujinistration.
Coxe for the defendant in error.The decision of the Circuit Court is to be considered correct, until
its incorrectness is made to appear. !This was so held by this Court
in the case of Carroll vs. Peake, 1 Peters, 23. Have the plaintiffs
in error .shown that there was error -in the decision of the Circuit
Court? It was a question on the legal title of the parties in the
cause, and this question alone was decided by the Court. The
equitable claims of those who alleged they were justly entitled to the
land under Robertson, could not be taken into consideratiorn in the
action on the law side of the' Circuit Court. The chancery powers
of the Court could have been invoked by the defendants' in another
form than in a defence to an action of ejeetment.
The grant and patent are evidence in a Court of law of the matters recited in them. The -grant, legally and fully executed, was
VOL. XIII.-2 P

446

SUPREME COURT.
[Bagnell etal. vs. Brioderick.]

teonpetent evidence of the matters set forth in it; and as none other
The United States vs.
was necessary, it was in effect conclusive."
Arredon'do et al., 6 Peters, 724. No facts behind the grant can be
investigated.
1 Wheat. 5S.
A patent is evidence in a Court of
law of the regularity of all the previous steps to it. 5 Wheat. 293.
7 Wheat. 151. The Court are bound to presume the acts of commissioners intrusted by laws 'of Congress to inquire into claims
in
are to
lands, regular; and the decisions of these commissioners
Courts of law b-iding and effectual. This principle was decided in
the cae of Rous vs. Bariand, 1 Peters, 668.
The defendant in error supported his claim to the land by a patent
issued by the proper authority. The patent was granted on the
facts stated in the records of the lard office, and those. records are
evidence of the proceedings stated in them. They are conclusive
evidence. This was fully decided by this-.Court inthe case of Galt
vs. Galloway and others, 4 Peters, 342. This Court then said, "As
the records of the land office are of great importance to the country,
and are kept under the officiaf sanction of the government, their
contents must always be considered, and they are always received
in Courts of.justice, as evidence of the facts stated."
The commissioner of the land. office was empowered by the actof C )ngress to investigate the facts connected with every application
for land, in consequence of the injuries sustained by the earthquake;
'and he was to adjudge to the person entitled, after such investigation, the land to be granted by the United States. In this case, Robertson was in full life when the land was granted and patented to
him; and he conveyed it to those under Whom by regular conveyances the defendant in error holds. In a Court of law nothing more
was necessary than the exhibition of such a legal title.
Nor could the plaintiffs in error derive any right to maintain their
title under the provisions of the law of Missouri of 1835. That law
can hav6 no operation on the system established by the United
States for the sale of their public lands, and the granting of titles
thereto. Against trespassers, the law of Missouri may have full
effect; and a holder of land inMissouri under a pre-emption right,
New Madrid location, or entry with the register, might maintain an
ejectmnt. But this law could give no right to an eje6tment under
an incohate right in the Courts of the United States, against a patent
issued by the proper officer authorized by the act of Congress to
grant a patent. The states of the United States cannot make by
their statutes any titles or claims to lands by certificates of entry
which are inferior to a patent, of equal-dignity with a patent.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the Court.
This was an action of ejectment by Broderick against Bagnell,
for a section of land lying in Howard county, Missouri; and Peter
and Luke Byrne were admitted to come ift and defend, under the
following- circumstances. Morgan Byrne claimed to be the owner
of'the land, and he was first admitted a co-defendant with Bagnell.

JANUARY TERM. 1839.

447

[Bagnell et al. vs. Broderick.]

Byrne died, and Margaret Byrne, his executrix, was admitted as a
co-defendant. Then she died-; and Peter Byrne and Luke Byrne,
executors. of the last will of Morgan Byrne, were admittea.
The judgment below is, that the plaintiff recover the land and
costs, against Carey Bagnell and P. and L. Byrne, executors of Morgan Byrne.
It is assigned for error, that the judgment for costs against Peter
and Luke Byrne, should have been de bonis testatoris, and not de
bonis propriis.
The presumption is, that the judgment of the Circuit Court is
proper, and it lies on the plaintiffs in error to show the contrary. I Peters, 23. The executors of Morgan Byrne ha l no in
terest' in the' land by virtue of their letters testamentary, but cbuld
well ha e an intexest by the will of, their testator. On no other
ground could they properly- have beet permitted to come in and
defend in the character of executors. On this ground, therefore, we
presume they were admitted; and, like other defendantg in ejectment, having-failed to show the better title, the recovery was proper;
and costs necessarily followed the judgment de bonis propriis.
The plaintiff Brtderick claimed by virtue of a patent from the
United States, to John Robertson, Jr., dated June 17th, 1820 and
deeds in due form from Robertson and others to himself, proved
Carey in possession at the commencement of the suit; and here
rested his case.
To show that the better title had been in Morgan Byrne,the defend.
ants produced a deed dated 20th May, 156)9, from John Robertson,
Jr., to Edward Robertson, St., for seven hundred and fifty arpens
of land lying in Big Prairie township, in the district of New Madrid, adjoining the lands of Sheckler and Cox; and which deed authorized Ed. ard Robertson to procure a patent from the government. By different conveyances Morgan Byrne claimed title to the
750 arpens through and under Edward Robertson.
The land lies in the county of New Madrid, in the state of'Missouri, and was injured by the earthquakes of December, 1811. To
relieve the inhabitants i*ho had suffered by this calamity, (bongres
passed the-act of 17tlh February, 1815; providing that those whose
lands had been, 'materially injured, -should be authoriied to locate
the same quantity on any of the public lands in the Missouri territory, but not exceeding in any case 40 acres; on which being done,
the, title to the land injured should revert to the United States.
. The recorder of land titles for the territory of Missouri was made
the Judge, "1to ascertain who was entitled to 'the benefit of the act.
and to, what extent ;" on the exam~ination of the evidences of claim,
as compensation for which, if well founded, he was directed to issue
a certificate to the claimant. This certificate having issued, and a
notice of location having been filed in the surveyor general's office,
on application of the claimant-the surveyor was directed to survey,
the land selected, and to return a plat to the office of the recorder
of land titles, together with a notice ill writing, designating the tract

448

SUPREME COURT.
[Bagnell et al. vs. Broderick.]

located; and the name of the claimant on whose behalf the location
and survey had been made; which plat and notice it was the duty
of the recorder to record in his office: and le was required to transmit a report of the claim as allowed, together with the location by
survey to the commissioner of the general land office; and deliver
to the claimant a certificate stating the circumstances of the case,
and that le was entitled to a patent for the tract designated. The
notice of location made by thr claimant with the- surveyor general
is no part of the evidence on which the general land office acted;
but the patent issued on the plat and certificate of the surveyor, returned to the recorder's office, and which was by him reported to
the -general land office.
The United States never aeemect thie land appropriated ttntil the
survey was returned, for the reason that there were many titles and
claims, perfect and incipient, emanating from the provincial governments of France and Spain, and others from the United States, in
the land district where the New Madrid -claims were subject to be
located. So there were lead mines and salt springs excluded from
entry. Then, again, the notice of entry Might be in a form -inconsistent with .the laws of the United States: in all which cases no
survey could be made in conformity to it. If no such objection
existed it was the duty, of the surveyor to conform to tbe election
made by the claimant, having the location certificate from the
recorder. Still the only evidence of the location recognised by the
government as an appropriation was the plat.and certificate 'of the
surveyor. Such is the information obtained from the, general land
office. As evidence of the form of location, and practice of the
office, we have been furnished with a copy of the plat and certificates of survey on which the patent in this record is founded, and
which is annexed. As before stated, the patent to John Robertson,
Jr. is deemed to have been issued regularly; and we must presume
that all the usual incipient steps had been taken before the title was
perfected. 5 Wheat. 293. 7 Wheat. 157. 6 Peters, 724. 727,
728. 342. And of course, that the certificate of sufvjy'returned by
the recorder; was in the name of John Robertson, Jr. The patent
merged the location certificate on which- the survey was founded;
so that no second survey could be made by virt-ue of the certificate.
Thus fortified stands the title of the plaintiff below.
The defendant there relied upon a notice of entry filed witn tne
surveyor general in these w'ords: "Morgan Byrne, ag the legal representative of John Robertson, Jr., enters six hundred and forty acres
of land, by virtue of a New Madrid certificate, issued by the recorder of land titles for the territory of Missouri, and dated St. Louis,
September, 1818, and numbered 448, in the. following manner, tb
wit, to include section No. 32, in township No. 50, north of the base
line, range No. 15, west of the fifth principal. meridian.
"St. Louis, Oct. 8th, 1818.
MORGAN BYliNE."

449

JANUARY TERM, 1839.
vs. Broderick]
[Bagneil et al.

Which is founded on the followina certificate of location :
"1No. 448.
of Land Titles,
"St. Louis, Office of the Recorder
" September,
1818.
"I certify that a tract of six hundred and forty acres of land,
situate, Big Prairie in the county of.New Madrid, which appears,
from the books of this office to be owned by John Robertson, Jr.,
has been materially injured by earthquakes; and that in conformity
with the provisions of the act of Congress, of the. 17th February,
1815; the said John Robertson, Jr., or his legal representatives, is
entitled to locate six hundred and forty acres of land, on any of the
public lands of the territory of Missouri, the sale of which is
authorised by law. Vide Com'rs Cer'e, No. 1126, ext'd.
"FREDERICK BAThs.,"

This is obviously the foundation of the survey and patent to John
Robertson, Jr. ; a fact admitted_; but it is insisted that Byrne had
the better title to the recorders certificate ; that it issued to him in
fact as the "legal representative of John Robertson, Jr.,;" and that
the notice of entry filed with the surveyor general, vested in Byrne
a title of a character on which he could have maintained an ejectment against Broderick; and that, consequently, his devisees could
successfully defend themselves. That they could, if, the entry be
the better title, must be admitted.
There is evidence in this record, tending to show that Morgan
Byrne made the relinquishment of the New Madrid claim; but the
same evidence, (being extracts from the records of the recorder's
office,) show that the location certificate was granted to John Robertson, Jr. They are as follows:
Warr. or ord. of Survey. Notice to the recorder. QatyWhere
survey.,
cl
ime.tuated

By U. S. Corn's
for 200 arpens,

lohh Robertson, Jr. 750

Big

arpens. Prairie.

cer. 1126.

Po""',
In'

Opinions of the
recorder,
Granted

6.0

acres E.

A list of relinpuishments of lands materially injured by earthquakes, in the late county of
New Madrid, (present) state of Missouri, under the act of Congress of 17th February,
1815.,

This evidence, taken in connexion with the deeds to Edward Ro,.
bertson, and those from him and others to Byrne, it is insisted, esta2 P,2

57

4.50

SUPREME COURT.
(Bagnell et a].

v8. Broderick.]

blish the better equity to have been in the latter; and that this
equity can be made available for the defendants in the Circuit Court,
by force of the act of the legislature of Missouri, which provides,
that an action of enactment may be maintained on "a New Madrid
location."
Our opinion is, first, that the location referred to in the act, is- the
lat and certificate of surVey returned to the recorder of land titles;
ecause, by the laws of the United States, this is deemed the first
appropriationof the land, and the legislature of Missouri htdno power,
hiad it made the attempt, to declare the notice of location filed with
the surveyor general an appropriation contrary to the laws of the
United States. The survey having been made and certified to the
recorder in the name of John Robertson, Jr., Byrne had no title that
would sustain al ejectment in any case ; and of'course, those -claiming under him cannot successfully defend themselves on the evidence they adduced.
But secondly, suppose the plat and certificate of location had
been made and returned to the recorder in the name of Morgan
Byrne; and that -it had been set up as the better title in opposition,
to the patent adduced on behalf of the plaintiff in ejectment; still,
we are of opinion the patent would have been the better legal title.
We are bound to presume for the purposes of this action, that all
previous steps had been taken by John Robertson, Jr., to entitle
himself to the prtent, and that he had the superior right to' obtain it,
nlotwithstanding the claim set up by Byrne; and having obtained
tWe patent, Robertson had the best title, (to wit, the fee,) known to,
a Court of law.
Congress has the sole power to declare the dignity and effect of
titles emanating from the United States; and the whole legislation
of the federal government, in reference to the public lands,_ declares the patent the superior and conclusiv6 evidence of legal title;
unti1 its issuance, the fee is in the governmeilt, which, by the patent,
passes to the grantee; and he is entitled to recover the possession in
ejectment.
If Byrne's devisees can show him to have been the true owner
of the 150 arpens of, land, Nlinquished because injured by earthquakesl, and that the patent issued to John Robertson, Jr.,- by mistake ; then the eqi~ity side of, the Circuit Court'is the propei forum,
and a bill the proper remedy, to investigate the equities of the parties. But whether any equity existed ipi virtue of tfie act of 1815;
and if so, whether it was adjudged b etween the parties by the
recorder of land titles; are questions o4' which we have formed no
opinion, and wish to be understood, as r4o intimating any.
We have been referred to, the case of Ross vs. Barfand, 1 Peters,
662, as an adjudication involviqg the principles in this case; we
do not think so. In that there were conflicting patents; the younger
being founded on an appropriation of the specific land, by an entry
in the land office of earlier date than the senior patent. The Court
held that the entry and junior patent could be given in evidence in

JANUARY TERM,1839.

451

[Bagnell et al. vs. Broderick.)

connexion as one title, so as to overreach the elder patent The
practice of giving in evidence a special entry in aid of a patent, and
dating the legal title from the date of the entry, is familiat insome
of the states, and especially in Tennessee; yet the entry can only
come in aid of a legal title, and is no evidencl of such title standing
alone, when opposed to a patent for the same land. Where the title
has passed out of the United States by conflicting patents, as it had
in 'the case in 6 Peters, there can be no objection to the practice
adopted by the Courts of Mississippi to give effect to the better
right, in any .form of remedy the legislature or Courts of the state
may prescribe.
Nordo we doubt the power of the states to pass laws authorizing
purchasers of lands from the United States, to prosecute acti6ns of
ejectment, upon certificates of purchase, against trespassers on the
lands purchased; but we deny that the states have any power to
declare certificates of purchase of equal dignity with a patent.
Congress alone can give them such effect.For the several reasons stated, we have no doubt the judgment
of the Circuit Court was correct,; and order it to be affirmed.
In the cases of Sampson against Broderick, and M'Cunie against
the same, the judgments are also affirmed.
Mr. Justice M'LEAN' dissented.
Being opposed to the decision of the Court in this case, I will
state, as shortly as I can, the grounds of rly dissent. I am induced.
to do this from the peculiar circumstances of the case.
To sustain his action of ejectment, the plaintiff, in the' Circuit
Court, gave in evidence a patent to John Robertson, Jr., which
states "that he bad deposited in the general land office a certificate
numbered one hundred and ninety-two, of the recorder of land titles
at St. Louis, Missouri; whereby it appears that, in pursuance of an
act of Congress, passed 17 February, 1"815, entitled, an act for the
relief of the inhabitants of the late county of New Madrid, in the
Missouri territory, who suffered by earthquakes, the said John
Robertson, Jr., is confirmed in his claim for six hundred and forty
acres. of land, being survey No. 2,810, and section thirty-two, of
township fifty, north, in range fifteen, west of the fifth principal
meridian line," &c. The patent bears date 17th June, 1820. On
tfie 16th November, 1830, the patentee conveyed the land to Augustus .H. Evans. And on the 7th June, 1831, Evans conveyed to
Broderick, the lessor of the plaintiff.
The defendants first gave in evidence a confirmation of a Spanish
claim for settlement and cultivation to John Robertson, Jr., for six
hundred and forty acres of land in the Big Prairie, near New
Madrid. The, entire interest in this right was conveyed by John
Robertson, Jr., to Edward Robertson, Sr., the 29th May, 1829.
On the 30th October, 1813, Edward Robertson, Sr.,:conveyed
three hundred arpens of this tract of land to MOrgan'Byrne. And

452

SUPREME COURT.
[Bagnell et at. vs Broderick.]

the 11th of September,

1816,

he conveyed to Byrne two hundred

and fiftyarpens more of the same tract. On the 29th October, 1816,
Robertson conveyed to William Shelby two hundred and fifty arpens
of the Same tract. And on the 2d December, 1816, Shelby conveyed to Levi Grimes; and on the 26th February, 1817, Grimes
conveyed to Morgan Byrne.
By these conveyances Byrne became vested with the entire original right of John Robertson, Jr, to the tract of land, as above
stated.
Under the act of Congress of the 17th February, 1815, any person
owning land within the county of New Madrid, in. the Missouri
territory, which had been injured by earthquakes, had the right to
reliiiquish the same to the United States, and receive a certificate
therefor, specifying the quantity of acres, not to exceed six hundred
and forty, which he was authorized to locate on any land of the
United States; and on such location being made, the land relinquished became absolutely vested in the United States.
Under this law Byrne relinquished to the United States the six
hundred and forty acres in the Big Prairie, as the legal representative of John Robertson, Jr., who was the claimant of record originally. The following, is a cppy of the certificate of location issued
on this relinquishment.No. 448.

St. Louis, Office of the Recorder of land titles.
September, 1818.
I certify that a tract of six hundred and forty acres of land situate,
Big Prairie, in the county of New Madrid, which appears from the
books of this office to be owned by John Robertson, Jr., has been
materially injured by earthquakes ; and that in conformity with the
provisions of .the act of Congress of the 1.7tIT Februfary, 1,815, the
said John Robertson, Jr., or his legal repreientatives, is enitled to
locate six hundred and forty acres of land an any o the public lands
of the territory of Missouri, the sale of which is autfioriseA by law.

[Signed.]

FREDERICK BATES.

Atd on the 8th of October, 1818, Byrne made the following
location:-.
"Morgan Byrne, as the legal representative of John Robertson,
Jr., enters six hundred and forty acres of land, by virtue of a New
Madrid certificate issued by the recorder of land titles for the territory of Missouri, and dated St. Louis, September, i &Ia, and num.
bered 448, in the following manner, to wit: to include section No.
thirty-two, in townshin No. fifty, nd*th of the base line, range No.
fifteen west of the fifth rinicipal meridian." And here the evidence
of the defendants closed.
On this state of facts, the defendant's counsel moved the Court to
instruct the jury, that the entry or New Madrid,location, made by
Morgan Byrne iii his own name, is roa of a legal titleta the land.

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

459

[Bagnell et al. vs. Broderick.]

and is a sufficient defence against all persons who do not show a
better legal title to the same land. That if the jury believe the
patent, a copy of which has been given in evidence by plaintiffissued on the location made by Morgan Byrne, the patent is not
such title as will avail against the location.
-The, revised code of Missouri of 1825, which was in force when
this action was commenced, provides that a New Madrid location
shall be a title on which to sustain an action of ejectment against
any person not having a better title.
The defendant's show, by deeds of conveyance from John Robertson, Jr., that Morgan Byrne had a full and clear title to the
640 acres of land near New Madrid; that he relinquished said land,'
under the act of Congress of 1815, to the United States, and located
the section of land now in controversy. He being the owner of the
land, as the legal representative of John Robertson, Jr., was the
only person who could relinquish it to the United States. By virtue
of this relinquishment, and in consideration of its having been made,
hereceived the certificate which authorised him to locate the same
number of acres of any part of the public land which had been
offered for sale.
It appears that under the law of 1815, the New Madrid claimant
had to show a confirmation of the land claimed by him on the
public records in the name of the first claimant, and to show a
derivative title to himself, before he was permitted to relinquish it
to the government. And in the present instance, John Robertson,
Jr., being the original confirmee of the title, the record was produced
establishing the fact , and Byrne then proved, by an exhibition of
his deeds, that Robertson had parted with all his right in the pr6mises, and that he was his legal representative. It was in this
capacity that the relinquishment was made, and the certificate of
location was issued. And he made the location of' the land in controversy in the same character.
In this view of the case there can be no doubt that ByrUe or his
assignee has the title to the land. And that there is possession
under this title is shown by the fact that the action-of ejectment
was coraimenced by the lessor of the plaintiff, to obtain -the possession.
It appears that the patent was issued to John
Robertson, Jr., improperly; as in 1809 he conveyed all his interest in"
the land relinquished. Before the emanation of tfie patent, he 4ad not a shadow
of title, either equitable or legal, to the land in dispute. And the
patent' must have been fraudulently obtained by him, on the presentafior 6f the certificate of location made by Byrne. The evidence
on this point is too clear to be controvQrted. It is established by
deeds executed in the most solemn form, and by records which contain the highest verity. The inference of the fraud is as irresistible
as are the facts from which it is inferred.
The proof of Byrne's title is irrefragable; and it is equally clear

454

SUPREME COURT.
[Bagnell et al. vs. Broderick.]

that Robertson had no title to the land, until he fraudulently obtained the patent. Having no shadow of right, he could obtain the
patent in his own namq by no other than fraudulent means. And
no Court which could feel .itselfauthorised to look behind the patent,
could hesitate to pronounce the title of Byrne valid against the
patentee, who has sought to cover his fraud by this legal instrument.
And the question here arises,, whether, under the Missouri statute,
the Circuit Court ought not -to have instructed the jury, that under
the deeds and records given in evidence, Byrne's was the better
title. I cannot doubt that this instruction should have been given.
The statute makes the location a legal title for the purposes of the
action of ejectment. And if it be a good title, on which to bring an
,ejectment, it must be equally effectual in the defence of such an action.
This title, the statnte declares, shall prevail against any person who
has not the better title.
And what kind of a title is this better title. Surely it is a title
that under the facts and circumstances of the case ought to prevail
against that to which it is opposed.
It is urged that this better title must mean a better title than
others of the, same class; but that it can never be considered a better
title against a patent. And why may it not be considerod a better
title against the patent?
The title set up in the defence derives its validity from laws
of the United States, as entirely as the 'patent. The question then
is, which is the better title of the two, both originating from the
same sovereignty? The statite of Missouri does nothing more than
declare that a Court of law may do in an action of ej~ctment, what
no one doubts would be competent for a Court of chanceryto do.
And may not the legislature do this? It does not originate a title,
under any pretence of state sovereignty, which is to operate against
a patent from the United States; but it gives to a Court of law, powers in the action of ejectment, which in some other states are exercised only by a Court of chancery. This has always been the
rule in Pennsylvania, and in other states which-have no Court of
chancery.
Technically, a location is an inchoate legal title. :3ut, out of this
class of titles a new rule of equity grew up, by the practice of the
Courts of Kentucky. And this rule is not in conformity with the
long established principles of a Court of equity.
As between conflicting entries, the doctrine of notice is utterly
discarded. The entry must be a legal one, by embracing all the
substantial requisites of the law, or a subsequent entry may be made
on the same land, though the locator have full knowledge of the
first entry.
This forms an anomaly in the history of equity jurisdiction. It
authorizes.a Court of equity to give effect to that which is, in itself,
strictly a legal right.
Principles growing out of this peculiar system have been acted

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

451

[Bagnell et al. v8,tie.
Broler&ck.]

on from necessity, by the Courts of the United States; but they
have not been regarded as appropriate to an equitable jurisdiction
in Had
other the
cases.
Courts of Kentucky acted upon entries as legal
titles,
whether under their own rules, or by virtue of statutory provisions',
the Courts of the United States would have adopted the same mode
of proceeding, In the state of Tennessee, a junior patent under
the first entry will overreach -an elder patent, under a junior conflicting entry. This, in Kentucky, would be the exercise of an
equitable jurisdiction. In Missouri, under the statute, it would be
examinable at law.
It is said, the patent merges the location. This, under the Kentucky system is true; but, where the patent has been issued, through
A mistake or fraud, to an individual who was not entitled to it; a
Court of equity will control the right of the patentee, by compelling
him to convey to the person who has the better right.
And why may not a Court of law protect this better right. The
right may be investigated as fully, and considering the nature of-the
rights under 'the Missouri statute, as safely in a Court of law-as in
a Court of chancery. But this, with the Court, is not a question of
policy. It is a fule of evidence and of property - adopted by the
state of Missouri, and our whole course of adjudications requires
us to regard it. There is therefore no more violation of principle
in examining the title of Byrne at law, then in equity. The result
i substantially the same in both modes; as the title of Byrne must
be protected from the fraud by which it has been attempted to be
overreached and subverted.
Judging from the evidence of this case, I have never seen a
grosser act of fraud than the obtainment of this patent by Robertson; eleven years after he had conveyed every vestige of right in
the land which was relinquished as the consideration to the United
States for the location in controversy.
It was stated in the argument that Byrne made the location, but
took no step subsequently to perfect the title. That Robertson had
the survey executed and returned. This is an argument against the
record. By the certificate which authorized the location it was
required to be located on land, "the sale of which is authorized by
law." And no land is authorized by law to be sold, except such as
has -been surveyed by the officers of the United States. The location in question was made on a, sedtion designated by its number,
township,
and range, and which of course had been surveyed.
As Robertson's
name was inserted in the location agreeably to
the forms used, he being the original claimant on record, of the New
Madrid tract relinquished, he Was enabled tQ practise an imposition
and fraud on the commissioner of the general land office, and obtain
the patent.
It is a well settled principle, that fraud may be investigated as.
well at law as in chancery; and I am strongly inclined to thint if

456

SUPREME COURT.
[Bagnell et al.
v8. lBroderick.]

this fraud had been brought before the Court and jury, independent
of the statfite of Missouri, they must have determined that it vitiated the patent.
Can any one look at these two titles, that of Byrne having been
obtained by a fair purchase, relinquishment, and location; and that
of Robertson by fraudulently obtaining the patent, and hesitate
i- deciding which is the better title. And it appears to me that the
statute of Missouri in providing that such a location shall be a title,
on which an acti6n of ejectment may be sustained, covers the whole
case; and enables the Court and jury to determine which is the
better title.
In the case of Sims' lessee vs. Irvine, 3 Dallas 457, this Court
swy, "in Pennsylvania, where the consideration has been paid, a
survey, though unaccompanied by a patent gives a legal right of
entry, which is sufficient in ejectment." Why-they have been adjudged to give such right; whetlAer from a defect of chancery pow-.
ers, or for other reasons of policy or justice is not now material.
The right once having become an established legal right, and having
remains a
incorporated itself, as such, with property'and tenures; "it
legal right notwithstanding any new distribution of judicial powers,
and must b6 regarded by the common law Courts of the United
States, in Pennsylvania, as a rule of decision.
And in the case of Ross vs. Doe on the demise of Barland et al.
I Peters, 664, this Court say,' "for the plaintiff it is argued that the
'state Court erred in deciding that the elder grant should not prevail
in the action of ejectment."
The question in this case was between a claimant under a patent
of the United States, and one who claimed the same land under a
donation certificate, given by commissioners. The question was
identically the same, in principle, as in the case under consideration.
And this Court decided, "where by the established practice of
Courts in particular states, the Courts in actions of ejectment look
bepyond the grant, and examine the progressive stages of the title
from its incipient state until its consummation; such a practice will
form the law of cases decided under the same, in'these states: and
the Supreme Court of the United States regard those rules of decision in cases brought up from such states, provided that in so doing,
they do not suffer-the provisions of any statute of the United States
to be violated. Under the act of Congress, of March 3, 1803, such
lands only were authorized to be offered for sale as had not been
appropriated by the previous sections of the law, and certificates
granted by the commissioners in pursuance thereof. A right, therefore, to a particular tract of land derived from a donation certificate,
given tinder that law, is superior to the title of any one who purchased the same land at the public sales." This was the rule in.
ejectment cases in the State of Mississippi, from whence this cause
was'brought.
This decision was given in 1828; the one cited from Dallas was

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

457

"[Bagnell et a]. vs. Broderick.]

made in 1799; and the rule laid down in these cases has not beeh
questioned by any other adjudieation of this Court. Other decisions might be referred to of the same import, but it is deemed to
be unnecessary.
I will, however, notice a case decided at the present term, which,
in my judgment, in principle, has a strong application to the question under consideration. By a statute of Kentucky itis provided
that "any person having both the legal title, and possession of 'and,
may institute a suit against any other person setting, up a claim
thereto; and if the complainant shall be able to establish his title to
such land, the defendant shall be decreed to release his claim thereto,
and to pay the complainant his costs," &c. Now here is a statute
which creates an equity, or rule of'proceeding in a Court of'chancery; which, in the case of Clark vs. Smith has been very properly
recognized as a rule of proceeding in this Court.
Now the statute of Missouri created a legal right, or rule of proceeding in the action of ejectment. And if the Kentucky statute
can give the rule of proceeding to this Court, in chancery, why may
not the Missouri statute do the same thing at law.
In the state of Illinois, by statute, a certificate of the register of
the land office of the United States of an entry of land, is made a
good title on which to sustain an action of: ejectment: and the Supreme Court of that state has long since settled the rule, that such
a title may be held good against a patent wrongfully or fraudulently obtained. In the sate of Alabama there is a similar law, and
it has received, by the Supreme Court of that state, the same construction.
The idea, that if a state can pass a law authorising an action of
ejectment on a certificate of the register, and that if this certificate,
under any bircumstances should be held the better title, against a
patent wrongfully issued would endanger the public lands; is so
novel and so unfounded that I must notice it. Had not such an argument been advanced, I should have supposed that two things so
wholly disconnected as this premiss and conclusion could never be
associated in the mind of any one.
'How-is the public lands endangerel by the establishment of this
rule?
The certificate as well as the patent emanate from the federal governmnent. Now if the patent through mistake or fraud has been
issued wrongftlly, no one doubts that a Court of chancery may protect the right, in such a case, of the certificate holder... The state of
Illinois says, this may be done at law, and this is the whole matter.
If there be danger to the public lands in this, it is not only a modern
discovery: but to guard effectually against the danger, the states
must abolish their Courts of chancery, or restrict them under all
circumstances from questioning the right of the patentee. If the
state Courts cannot try these cases between their own citizens and
under their own laws, where are they to be tried? All who claim
under a patent are entitled to the same rights as the patentee.
VOL. XIII.-2 Q
58

458

SUPREME COURT.
[Bagnell et al. vs. Broderick.],

Mr. Justice M'KINLEY concurred in opinion with Mr. Justice
M'LEAN.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the district of Missouri, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is
ordered and adjudged by this Court that the judgment of the said
Circuit Court in this cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed with
costs.
NOTE.
No. 192.

Office of the recorder of land titles.
St., Louis, March 9, 1820.
I certify, that in pursuance of the act of Congress, passed the 17th
day of February, 1815, a location certificate, No. 448, issued from
this office in favour of John Robertson, Jr., or his legal representatives, for six hundred'and forty acres of land; that a location has
been made, as appears by the plat of survey herewith, and that the
said John Robertson, Jr., or his legal representatives,'is entitled to
a patent for the said tract, containing, according to said location, six
hundred and forty acres of land, being section No. 32, in township
No. 50, north of base line-range No. 15 west of 5th principal
meridian. No. of survey, 2,810.
nRDERICK BATES.
Township No. 50, North of the Base line, Range No. 15, West
fifth principal meridian.
79
50
Surveyors' Office, St. Louis.
No. 448.
January 15, 1820.
I certify that, section No. 32, in township
John Robertson, Jr.
No. 50, north of the base line, range No. 15,
Section 32.
west of the 5th principal meridian, was lo640.
cated on the 8th day of October, 1818, for
John Rob'ertson, Jr., or his legal representatives, by virtue of No. 448, dated September, 1818, issued by the
recorder of land titles for the Missouri territory, to said John Robertson, Jr., or, his legal representatives, for six hundred and forty acres
of land, in conformity with the provisions of the act of Congress of
the i7thFebruary, 1815, for the relief of sufferers by earthquakes
in the late county of New Madrid.
WM. RECTOR:
To Frederick Bates, Esq., Recorder of land titles for the Missouri
Territory.

