JANUARY TERM, 1839.

THE HEIRS OF WILLIAM EMERSON, PLAINTIFFS IN
CHARLES H. HALL, DEFENDANT IN ERROR.

ERROR,

vs.

The Josepha Secunda, was condemned for a violation of the laws of the United States,
prohibiting the slave trade; and by a decree, the District Court of Louisiana allov~ed
the claim of the collector, the surveyor, and naval officer, who had prosecuted for
the forfeiture, to a portion of the proceeds of the sale of the property condemned. This
decree was afterwards reversed, and the whole proceeds adjudged to the United States,
on an appeal to the Supreme Court. William Emerson, the surveyor, afterwards died;
and in 1831, Congress passed an act for the relief of the collector, the heirs'of William
Emerson, and the heirs of the naval officer; under the authority of which the sums
which bad been adjudged to those officers, and which had remained in the District Court
of Louisiana, were by an order of the Court paid to them according to the provisions
of the law. One of the creditors of William Emerson claimed the sum so paid to his
legal representatives, as assets for the payment of his debt. Held, that the payment
made by order of the District Court, to the minor children of William Emerson, as hilt
legal heirs, was rightfully made: and that the same cannot be considered in their hands
as assets for the payment of the debts of their father.
The prosecution of the Josepha Secunda by the officers of the customs of Louisiana, was
not done under the authority of any law, or by any authority; and these sets imposed
no obligation, either in law or equity, on the government to compensate them. 'The
claim for those services could not hav4e been set up either as an equitable or a legal offset
to any demand of the government against them, or either of them; while, under the
rules of law, any specific demand on the government which imposed on, it even an
equitable obligation, might be set up as an offset.
Services rendered under the requirements of law, or of contract, for which a compensation
is fixed, constitute a legal demand on the government. Services rendered under an authority which is casual, or in some degree discretionary, may constitute an equitable
claim. N'o individual can be made a debtor against his will. Voluntary benefits may
be conferred on him, which may excite his gratitude; or vhich in the exercise, of his generosity he may suitably rewa'd. But this depends on his own volition. It would constitute a singular item undel the law of assets, to raise a charge against an individual for
a benefit conferred by some voluntary act of kindness. The rule ;s the same, whether
the benefit be conferred on the government or an individual.
A claim against a foreign government for spoliations is not of this, character The demand in such a case is founded on the law'of nations, and the obligation is perfect on.
the offending government.

IN error from the Supreme Court of the eastern district of Louisiana.
In 1829, Charles H. Hall, residing in New York, presented a petition to the Court of Probates of the city and parish of New Orleans, stating. that the estate of William Emerson, deceased, was
indebted to him, in the sum of 'seventeen hundred dollars and upwards, with interest; and he prayed the Court, that Charles Byrne,
the tutor and ourator of the children of William Emerson, should
be decreed to allow the debt, and to pay the same.
Mr. Byrne, as tutor and curator of the minor heirs of William Emerson, by his answer, denied that the estate of Emerson was in any
wise indebted to the petitioner: and on the 8th of February, 1830,
a decree was given in the Court of Probates against the estate of
Emerson for the amount of the debt claimed in the petition.
Afterwards a case was submitted to the Court of Probates by the
52
VOL. XIII.-2 M

410

SUPREME COURT;
[Heirs of Emerson vs. Hall.)

petitioner, Charles H1. Hall, and Charles Byrne, tutor and curator, &c.
by which it appeared, that William Emerson died in the year 1828;
previous to that time, he, as surveyor, B. Chew, as collector, and E.
Lorrain, as naval officer of the port of New Orleans, had, at their
sole expense, the brig Josepha Secunda condemned in the name of
the United States, in the District Court of the United States, for the
Louiisiana district, for an infraction of the slave laws; they claimed
title to the pfoceeds of this seizure, as the true and actual captors
and seizors, who made the last and only effectual seizure, and prosecuted the same to a final decree of condemnation. The decree
of the District Court allowed the claim; but the case ha-zing been
broughtup before. the Supreme Court of the United States, that tribunal reversed the judgment, on the ground that Congress had made
no provision for their compensation; and they were left, in common
with those who made the military seizure, to, the liberality of the
government. Thereupon, the said collector, and surveyor, and naval
officer, applied for relief to Congress, and obtained from that branch
of the government, an act entitled "An act for the relief of Beverly
Chew, the heirs of Willian'i Emerson, deceased, and the, heirs of
Lorrain, deceased," the same being duly approved on the 3d March,
1831 ; and in compliance with the provisions of*said act, upon motion before the District Court, the moneys remaining in Court after
the payment of costs were paid over to Beverly Chew, and to the
legal representatives of both Emerson and Lorrain.
The question for the decision of the Court was, whether the money-received by the minor children, as the legal representatives of
William Emerson, by virtue of the act of Congress of the 3d of
March, 1831, could be made liable for the payment of the'debts of
their father.
The judge of the Court of Probates decreed that the judgment
rendered in favour of the petitioner, should be satisfied out of those
moneys or any other assets belonging to the estate, in the hands of
the curator, or in those of the heirs of the deceased.
Mr. Byrne, as curator and tutor, appealed from this decree, to the
Supreme Court of Louisiana; by which Court, the decree of the
-Court of Probate was affirmed.
This appeal, under the 25th section of the judiciary act of 1789,
was prosecuted on behalf of the heirs of William Emerson.
Coxe, for the appellants, contended that the moneys derived by
the childreu of William Emerson, Under the act of Congress of .3d
March, 1831, were not assets for this payment of the debts of their
father. They were a gratuity from the government of the United
States; and made no part of the personal assets to which the curator
of the estate was entitled. They were not a debt due by the Upited
States to the naval officer. The whole proceeds of the Josepha Secunda, had, by the decree of the Supreme Court of the United
States, been held to be the property of the United States. The act

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

411

[Heirs of Emerson vs. Hall.]

of Congress gave a portion of those proceeds to the officers of the
customs; but this was a gift, and not the admission of a claim.
Mr. Justice M'LEAN delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the state of Louisiana, under the 25th, section of the judiciary act.
The defendant here, as plaintiff, in the Court of Probate at New
Orleans, recovered a juagment in 1830, against the estate of William Emerson, for seventeen hundred and eighty-eight dollars and
sixty-two cents; and the question in this case is, whether the
heirs of Emerson shall be held responsible for the payment of this
judgment under the following circumstances,.
In April, 1818, Emerson, being surveyor of the port of New Orleans, with B. Chew, the collector, and E. Lorrain, the naval officer,
seized the brig Josepha Secunda, for a violation of the laws which
prohibit the impprtation of slaves, and instituted proceedings against
her, which resulted in the condemnation of the-vessel and slaves.
This judgment being pronounced by the District Court of the
United States for Louisiana, was affirmed on an appeal to the Supreme Court of the United States.
On the cause being remanded to the District Court, the negroes
'having been sold as well as the vessel, a questian was raised by
several claimants, as to the distribution of the proceeds of the sale:
and thelDistrict Court, dismissing the claims of others allowed
those of the collector, the' surveyor, and the naval officer. From
this decree there was an appeal to this Court. And as appears from
10 Wheat. 331, this Court decided that the proceeds, under the laws
of the United States, should not be paid to the customhouse officers,
who made the seizure, but that they vested in the United States.
The decree of the District Court, making the allowance, was therefore reversed; and that part of it, which dismissed the petition of
other claimants was affirmed.
In 1828, Emerson died, leaving heirs.
On the 3d Mar h, 1831, an act, entitled, "An act for the relief of
Beverly Chew he heirs of William Emerson, deceased, and the
heirs of Edwarcl Lorrain, deceased," was passed by Congress.
The preamble of this act states, "Whereas, the brig Josepha Secunda was condemned in the name of the United States, in the District Court of the United States for the'Louisiana district, in the year
1818, on the seizure and prosecution, and atthe sole expense of Beverly Chew, collector of the district of Mississippi, William Emerson, deceased, surveyor, and Edwin Lorrain, deceased, naval officer
of the port of New Orleans, for an infraction of the slave laws:
and whereas, the one-half of the proceeds of the said brig and her
cargo are now deposited, subject to the order of the said Court,
which half. would have been payable to the said Beverly Chew,
William Emerson, and William Lorrain, but for anomission in the
laws heretofore passed on that-subject; therefore, be it enacted, &c.,
that the District Court of the United States be authorized and di-

412

SUPI EME COURT.
[Heirs of EmersQn.w. Hall.]

rected to order the proceeds of the said seizure now deposited, subject to the order of said Court, be paid over to the said Beverly
Chew, and the legal represetatives of the said William Emerson
'and Edwin Lorrain, respectively."
The question whether the sum of money receiyed by the heirs f
Emerson, tinder this law, was assets in their hands, and liable to his
debts, was first raised in the Court, of probate, which decided that
it was so liable : and this judgment was, on an appeal to the Supreme Court of the state, affirmed.
In the seizure and prosecution of the'vessel for a violation of law.
Emerson, with those who co-operated with him, rendered a meritorious service to the public. But he acted under no law, nor by virtue of any 'authority. And his acts imposed no obligation, either in
law or equity, on- the government to compensate him for his services.,
Had he been prosecuted on a debt due to the government, he
could not have set up these services, either as an equitable or legal
offset. And this he might do, under the rules of law, of any specific demand he might have on the government, which imposed on
it even an equitable obligation.
It is true, the payment of a debt cannot be enforced against the
government by suit; but claims against it are n'ot the less legal or
equitable on that account. Services rendered under the requirements of law or of contract, for which a compensation is fixed, con.stitute a legal demand. Services rendered under an authority which
is casual, or in some degree discretionary, may constitute an equitable claim. An individual, by timely efforts, may, save from destruction, by fire or otherwise, a large amount of public property.
This would be a highly meritorious act; but would it constitute a
claim on the government for compesation ?
From motives of public policy, the government might bestow a
suitable reward on the individual in such a case ; but this would be
a gratuity on its part. And if this reward were given to the heirs
of such an individual, could it be reached by his creditors? Numerous pensions have been given by law-to heirs for the military
services of their ancestors; and are these pensions liable'to the
debts of the ancestors ?" UndIer all the, provisions of this kind, has
it ever been supposed, that the pension, though given to the legal
representatives of the deceased, and on the ground of military services, should be paid to his administrators? No, individual can be
made a debtor against his will. Voluntary benefits may be conferred on him,.which ma- excite his gratitude, and which, in the exer"cise of his ,generosity, he may suitably reward. But this depends
on his own volition.
It would constitute a singular item under the law of assets to raise
a charge against an individual, for a benefit conferred on him by
some voluntary act Of kindness. To find an obligation in such a
case, we must look into those writers on ethics who speak of imperfect obligations, which cannot be enforced. The rule is the same,

JANUARY TERM, 1839.

413

[Heirs of Emerson vs. Hall]

whether the voluntary benefit be conferred on an individual, or on
the government.
Had Emerson become insolvent and made an assignment, would.
this claim, if it may be called a claim, have passed to his assignees!
We think, clearly, it would not. Under such an assignment, what
could have passed? The claim is a nonentity. Neither in lkw nor
in equity has it any existence. A benefit was voluntarily conferred
on the government; but this was not done at the request of any
officer of the government, or under the sanction of any law or
authority, express or implied. And under such circumstances, can
a claim be raised against the government, which shall pass by a
legal assignment, or go into the hands of an administrator as assets?
If in this form debts could be originated against the government
or an individual, there would be no security against- such demands.
One party, without the consent pf the other, makes the contract,
and assigns it to his creditors. For if there be even an equitable
claim, it arises out of a contract express or implied: A claim
against a foreign government for spoliations is not of this character.
The demand is, in such case, founded upon the law of nations, and
the obligation is perfect on the offending government. It is true,
remuneration cannot be recovered against the government by action
at law, but if justice be not done, the government of the injured
citizen, in the exercise of its' discretion, will protect and enforce
his rights.
In the case of Comeygs et.al. vs. Vasse, 1 Peters, 193, this Court
held, that the assignees of a bankrupt are entitled to a share of the
indemnity for unjust spoliation, provided for under the treaty of
1819 with Spain. But that case is not analogous to the one under
consideration. By the law, of nations, Spain was bound to indemnify
the oiv ners of foreign vessels which had been illegally captured and
condemned under her authority.
A claim having no foundation in law, but depending entirely on
the generosity of the government, constitutes no basis for the action
of any legal principle. It cannot be assigned.. It does not go to
the administrator as assets. It does not descend to the heir. And
if the government, from motives of public policy, or any other considerations, shall think proper, under such circumstances, to make
a grant of money to the heirs of the claimant, they receive it as a gift
or pure donation. A donation made, it is true, in reference to some
meritorious act of their ancestor, but which did not constitute a
matter of right against the government.
In the present case, the government might have directed the money to be paid to the creditors of Emerson, or to any part of his
heirs. Being the donor, it could, in the exercise of its discretion,
make such distribution or application of its bounty as circumstances
might require.., And it has, under the tide of an act, "for the relief
,of the heii. of Emerson," directed, in the body of the act, the money' to be paid to his legal representatives. That the heirs were.
9 M

,

414,

SUPREME CqURT.
.[Heirs of Emerson vs. Hall.)

intended by this designation is clear; and we think 'the payment
which has been made to them, under this act, has been rightfully
mad6; and that the fund cainot be cohsidered as assets in their
l ands for the payment of debts.
As the-decision of the Supreme Court of Louisiaiia is not iii accordaace with this view the judgment of that Court is reversed,
with costs.'
This cause 'tame on to be heard on the transcript of the record
fiom the Supreme Court of the state of Louisiana, aid was argued
by c 6 unsel. On consideration whereof, it is ordered and adjudged
by this Court, that the judgment of the said Supreme Court in diis
cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed, with costs; and that this
cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the said, Supreme
Court, that further proceedings may be had therein, in conformity
to the opinion of this Court.

