OCTOBER TERM, 1914.

Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

DANIELS v. JOHNSTON.
SAME v. BUTLER.
SAME v. CONNOR.
SAME v. DINEEN.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
Nos. 234, 235, 236, 240.

Argued April 21, 1915.-Decided June 1, 1915.

Decided on the authority of Daniels v. Wagner, ante, p. 547.
205 Fed. Rep. 235, reversed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Harrison G. Platt, with whom Mr. Robert Treat
Platt and Mr. Hugh Montgomery were on the brief, for
appellant.
Mr. Homer D. Angell, with whom Mr. William D. Fenton and Mr. Forrest S. Fisher were on the brief, for appellees.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
These four cases were embraced among the fifteen which
were argued by the appellant in one brief. For the appellees, however, they were argued in an elaborate brief
which presses upon our attention fifteen different propositions. Without going into detail, however, after giving
them all careful examination we think none of them af-

DANIELS v. JOHNSTON.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

fords ground for sustaining the action of the court below
in maintaining the demurrers, first, because many of them
rest upon contentions concerning the good faith of Daniels
in purchasing from the State of Oregon the right to lands
under the school indemnity lists which even if that subject
were relevant to the issues here arising are without merit,
since they but contradict and conflict with the finding by
the Secretary of the Interior as to good faith, which finding
we have pointed out in No. 239. Second, because other
of the propositions but dispute in various forms of statement the finding of the Secretary that the applicant or
applicants for the lieu entry or entries had complied with
every requirement of the statute and regulations which
were prerequisite to the allowance of the right which they
claimed. And finally because the remainder perhaps not
directly but certainly by indirection seek to establish as a
matter of construction under the act of 1897 that the
Department possessed the discretionary power which it
asserted.
We have not included in this classification of the propositions the first three which advance the theory that
because patents had been issued to the subordinate entrymen in Nos. 234 and 235, therefore there was no right on
the part of the lieu entrymen to assail the patent by indirection by seeking to impose a trust upon the title which
the patents represent. But this view is so directly in conflict with the well-settled principle on that subject that
we deem it unnecessary to say more. Lee v. Johnson, 116
U. S. 48; Duluth & Iron Range R. R. v. Roy, 173 U. S. 587;
Burke v. Southern Pacific Co., 234 U. S. 669, 692.
For these reasons and those stated in Daniels v. Wagner,
ante, p. 547, No. 239, the decrees sustaining the demurrers
in these cases must be reversed and the cases remanded for
further proceedings in accordance with the opinion in this
and in Daniels v. Wagner, ante, p. 547.
Reversed.

