PHOENIX INS. CO. v. McMASTER.
237 U. S.

Syllabus.

STATE OF SOUTH CAROLINA, EX REL. PHOENIX
MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY v. McMASTER, AS INSURANCE COMMISSIONER OF
THE STATE OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
STATE OF SOUTH CAROLINA, EX REL. SHERFESEE v. SAME.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF SOUTH
CAROLINA.
Nos. 195, 196. Argued March 12, 1915.-Decided April 5, 1915.
It is within the power of the State to determine for itself the conditions
upon which a foreign corporation may do business within its limits,
so long as it does not impose upon it any conditions depriving it of
rights secured under the Federal Constitution, and the State may
even altogether exclude from doing business within its borders a
corporation not doing an interstate business so long as no rights conferred by the Constitution and laws of the United States are destroyed or abridged.
Where the state statute authorizes an officer of the State to license
some foreign corporations to do intrastate business under specified
conditions and to reject others, the exercise of that authority in
good faith by such officer does not amount to denial of equal protection of the law as to a corporation excluded where the action was
based upon a classification which was not so arbitrary and unreasonable as to fall within the prohibitions of the Fourteenth Amendment.
A classification of foreign insurance corporations for the purpose of
establishing conditions under which they will be licensed to do business within the State based on the amount of their investments in
state securities is not so arbitrary as to amount to a denial of equal
protection of the laws.
The action of the Insurance Commissioner of South Carolina, in requiring foreign insurance corporations having less than a certain
proportionate amount of investments in state securities to make
deposits while those having that amount might give surety bonds
is not an arbitrary classification amounting to denial of equal protection of the law.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

237 U. S.

Where the state court has sustained the action of a state officer as
being within his statutory authority, this court is not concerned
with that question; the only question before it is whether the conduct of state authority transgresses the provisions of the Federal
Constitution.
94 S. Car. 379, and 382, affirmed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. T. Moultrie Mordecai for plaintiffs in error:
The Insurance Commissioner has gone beyond the
scope of the act from which he derived his power, and has
arbitrarily discriminated between the insurance companies
in the same class. His action is not sanctioned by the laws
of the State, but constitutes a deprivation of the property
of this plaintiff in error without due process of law, and
a denial to it of the equal protection of the law within
the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment.
For definition of approved bonds, see Century Dictionary, Anderson's Law Dictionary, sub bonds and securities.
Classification, in its very definition, implies equality
of the individuals of each class. Discrimination between
individuals of the same class is a denial of the equal protection of the laws, and a deprivation of property without
due process of law. The same means and methods should
be applied impartially to all the constituents of each class,
and no greater burdens shall be' laid upon one than are
laid upon another in the same calling. Leeper v. Texas,
139 U. S. 462; Kentucky R. R. Tax Cases, 115 U. S. 337;
Barbier v. Connolly, 113 U. S. 27; Bell's Gap R. R. v.
Pennsylvania, 134 U. S. 228; Connolly v. Union Sewer
Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540; Moore v. Missouri, 159 U. S. 678;
Florida &c. Ry. v. Reynolds, 183 U. S. 471; Mobile &
0. Ry. v. Tennessee, 153 U. S. 486; Adams Exp. Co. v.
Ohio, 165 U. S. 194; Mich. Cent. R. R. v. Powers, 201
U. S. 245; S. W. Oil Co. v. Texas, 217 U. S. 114; Citizens'
Tel. Co. v. Fuller, 229 U. S. 332; Magown v. Bank, 170

PHOENIX INS. CO. v. MMASTER.
237 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

U. S. 283; Giozza v. Tiernan, 148 U. S. 657; Cotting v.
Kansas City, 183 U. S. 79; Insurance Co. v. Mettler, 185
U. S. 308; Field v. Asphalt Co., 194 U. S. 618; American
Sugar Co. v. Louisiana, 179 U. S. 89; Pacific Exp. Co. v.
Seibert, 142 U. S. 334; Penn. Ins. Co. v. New York, 134
U. S. 594; Quong Wing v. Kirkendall, 223 U. S. 59.
The very idea of classification is that of inequality.
A., T. & S. F. Ry. v. Matthews, 174 U. S. 96.
A classification between individuals otherwise having
resemblances must be based upon reason and sound justice, and the power if so given cannot be arbitrarily exercised. InternationalHarvester Co. v. Missouri, 234 U. S.
199; Raymond v. Chicago Traction Co., 207 U. S. 20.
The action of the commission in refusing the bonds of
plaintiff in error, was discrimination of the most arbitrary
nature, and a clear invasion of the right of the plaintiff
to the equal protection of the laws as secured by the Fourteenth Amendment. He has not only undertaken to
disregard the plain language of the statute, in regard to
classification of the various kinds of insurance companies,
and to impose most arbitrary and unequal terms upon individuals of the same class, but he has taken upon himself
to go further, and to say that the very terms which he
himself has imposed may or may not be insisted upon, as
he may see fit.
The principle involved in Raymond v. Chicago Traction
Co., 207 U. S. 20, is the same as in this case; the result is
not the imposition of an unjust burden upon the existence
of plaintiff in error in the State of South Carolina, but
the very destruction of that existence.
Mr. F. H. Dominick for defendant in error:
The insurance business cannot be carried on in a State
by a foreign corporation without complying with all the
conditions imposed by the legislation of that State.
Bank of Augusta v. Earle, 38 U. S. 519; Paul v. Virginia,
VOL. CCXXXVII-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

237 U. S.

75 U. S. 168; Liverpool Ins. Co. v. Massachusetts, 77 U. S.
566; Cooper Mfg. Co. v. Ferguson, 113 U. S. 727; Philadelphia Fire Assn. v. New York, 119 U. S. 110; LaFayette
Ins. Co. v. French, 59 U. S. 404; Society for Savings v.
Coite, 73 U. S. 594; Providence Institute v. Massachusetts,
73 U. S. 611; Hamilton Mfg. Co. v. Massachusetts, 73 U. S.
632; DuCat v. Chicago, 77 U. S. 410.
Pursuant to the powers vested in the respective States,
the State of South Carolina has prescribed certain conditions for the admission of foreign insurance corporations
into the State of South Carolina and certain conditions to
be complied with by such companies before receiving
an annual license to do business within the State of
South Carolina. Some of these conditions are prescribed
by statute; others are placed within the discretion of the
duly appointed agents and officers of the State.
The act of 1912 referred to, gives any party full power
of appeal to the Supreme Court of South Carolina if he
feels aggrieved by the decision of the Insurance Commissioner.
In, this case plaintiff in error has had full and free
access to the courts of the State of South Carolina and has
had full advantage of the process of such courts provided
by law in such cases. Davidson v. New Orleans, 96 U. S.
97; Hagar v. Reclamation District, 111 U. S. 701; Kentucky
Railroad Rate Tax Cases, 115 U. S. 337.
All life insurance companies were placed in the same
class by the Insurance Commissioner. Those who had
certain investments, to wit: Investments in South Carolina securities, were permitted, in the discretion of the
Commissioner, to deposit a surety bond if they saw fit.
Those who did not have certain investments in South
Carolina securities were, within the discretion of the
Insurance Commissioner, required to deposit securities
instead of bonds in surety companies.
Petitioner did not offer to deposit with the Insurance

PHOENIX INS. CO. v. McMASTER.
237 U. S.

Opi.nion of the Court.

Commissioner any securities whatever, nor to .comply
with the said ruling in any manner; but, in effect attempted
to exercise its own discretion by insisting that the Insurance Commissioner accept the bond which was tendered.
Under these circumstances the petitioner is not in a position to raise this question, as it has failed to show that
said ruling was prejudicial to its rights.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
These cases involve the same questions, and, being
practically one proceeding, may be disposed of together.
They arise out of an application to the Supreme Court
of the State of South Carolina for a writ of mandamus,
requiring the respondent, Fitz. H. McMaster, as Insurance
Commissioner of the State of South Carolina, to issue
to the Phoenix Mutual Life Insurance Company, a corporation of tle State of Connecticut (hereinafter called the
Phoenix Company), a license to do business in South
Carolina as a life insurance company for the year beginning
April 1st, 1912. The Supreme Court of the State refused
to issue the writ (94 S. Car. 379, 382), and the case is
brought here, because of alleged deprivation of rights
under the Fourteenth Amendment to the Federal Constitution.
By the act of March 8, 1910, ยง 13, 26 Statutes at Large
(South Carolina), 774, it was provided:
"Before licensing any insurance company to do business
in this State, the Insurance Commissioner shall require
each such company to deposit with him an approved bond
or approved securities, in the discretion of the Commissioner, as follows: Each legal reserve life insurance company, twenty thousand dollars; each fire, accident, or
casualty or surety insurance company, or any company
not herein specified, ten thousand dollars: Provided, That
domestic industrial insurance companies shall in no case

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

be required to deposit more than the legal reserve on their
policies, but not less than one thousand dollars, which
said deposit may be made at the rate of five hundred
dollars a year, on April 1st of each year, until the whole
be deposited; each domestic mutual life insurance company doing business on a recognized table of mortality
with interest assumption not higher than four per centum
per annum, not less than three thousand dollars. But
each such domestic company shall keep on deposit with
the Insurance Commissioner at all times, not less than the
legal reserve on all of its outstanding policies: Provided,
Further, That the terms of this Section shall not apply
to domestic mutual assessment companies not doing business in more than two adjoining counties. If a bond be
given, it shall be conditioned to pay any judgment entered up against any such company in. any court of competent jurisdiction in this State, and such judgment shall
be a lien upon the bond or securities. In case a bond is
given, the judgment creditor shall have the right to bring
suit on said bond for the satisfaction of the judgment in
the county in which the judgment is received."
Under authority of this act, the Insurance Commissioner
notified insurance companies that, exercising a discretion
reposed in him to require such companies to make deposits
with the Insurance Commissioner or accept a surety
bond, beginning April 1, 1912, companies which had not
invested at least one-fourth of their reserve in South
Carolina in securities named in the act of 1910, would be
required to deposit South Carolina securities with the
Department. From such companies no surety bond would
be accepted. From companies which had invested at
least one-fourth of their reserve on South Carolina policies
in securities of that State, a surety bond would be accepted.
The letter also stated that the Department would receive
on deposit South Carolina state, county, or municipal
bonds; first mortgage bonds of real estate in the State;

PHOENIX INS. CO. v. McMASTER.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

first mortgage bonds of solvent domestic corporations,
whose property was situate entirely- within the State;
or time certificates of deposit in banks of the State.
The Phoenix Company applied for a license for the year
beginning April 1, 1912, and inclosed its check for the
license fee and 'a surety bond in the sum of $20,000.
The Insurance Commissioner refused the license, and
declined to issue the same unless the Phoenix Company
would make a deposit with him of securities acceptable to
him, in the sum of $20,000, in-bonds of the State of South
Carolina, of any county, state or town of the State of
South Carolina, or first mortgage bonds on real estate in
'the State of South Carolina, or first mortgage bonds of
solvent domestic corporations, whose property was situated entirely within that State, or any property situated
in that State and taxable therein, or. time certificates of
deposit in banks'of that State.
Afterwards the Commissioner notified the -surety company that he would not accept a bond from the Phoenix
Company unless the latter would furnish him with an
affidavit showing that at least one-fourth of its reserve
on South Carolina policies had been in-vested in the securities named in the act of 1910. The Insurance Company declined to make such affidavit, or to make such investments, on the ground that the same was not required
by any law of the State of South Carolina. It is the contention of the Insurance Company that the action of the
Commissioner in undertaking to exact .from it as a condition of receiving a license the investment of at least onefourth of its reserves in the securities as required by the
Commissioner, and in accepting from other insurance
companies, which had complied with the requirement of
the Commissioner, the bond of a surety company, and
issuing to them a license, was discriminatory. And the
Phoenix Company particularly insisted that the action
of the Commissioner in licensing the Mutual Benefit

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

Life Insurance Company of Xew Jersey on giving a
surety company bond, without that company having invested 25 per cent. of its reserve in securities demanded
by the Commissioner, discriminated against the plaintiff
in error, which action, it was .contended, deprived the
company of its property without due process of law, and
violated the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.
The Supreme Court of the State of South Carolina put
its decision denying the writ on the ground that the petitioner had failed to deposit with the Insurance Commissioner any securities, or to comply with the law and
the ruling of the Commissioner, and that it 'stood in no
position to raise the question involved; and dealing with
th6 equal protection of the law, the court held that the
Commissioner, under the act of 1910, was given" broad
authority to examine into the safety and solvency of
applicants for the privilege of doing business within the
State, with reference to their dealings and the conduct of
their business; that the statute gave him authority to
determine whether the applicant had the iecessary qualifications for doing business within the State; and that the
Commissioner had the .right to determine whether the
particular applicant should deposit bond or securities.
In this way only could tthe discretionary power conferred
upon the Commissionerer be exercised, and the court
therefore concluded that there was no denial of the equal
protection of the laws.
The case is presented here only in its aspect of deprivation of alleged rights secured by the Federal Constitution.
We fail to see any substantial merit in the contenti0n that
the applicant has been deprived of due process of law
in the exercise of t.e discretion given to the Commissioner
to accept or reject applicants for the insurance privilege
under the laws of the State, and in requiring some to
give bonds ad others to'deposit securities, after'having

PHOENIX INS. CO. v. McMASTER.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court..

investigated their condition and methods of doing business.
The main contention, pressed in argument, and upon
which the reversal of the judgment of the Supreme Court
of South Carolina is contended for, is based upon the equal
protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, because
of the alleged discriminatory action of the Commissioner
in dealing with different insurance companies, and particularly with the case of the Mutual Benefit Life Insurance Company of New Jersey. An inspection of the
record, however, shows a different condition of facts with
reference to that company from that shown as to the
Phoenix Company. While it is true that both are life
insurance companies, and doubtless solvent and sound
in their business methods, and while it appears that the
Mutual Benefit Life Insurance Company did not have,
actually invest6d in-South Carolina securities, one-fourth
of its reserve on South Carolina. policies, it did have, on
April 1, 1912, real estate mortgage loans in the State,
duly approved, and awaiting investment, considerably
in excess of one-fourth of its reserve on South Carolina
policies; while the Phoenix Company, out of its reserve on
South Carolip'a policies of $375,000, had only $10,350 of
investments in the form of South Carolina securities, and
did not indicate any purpose or intention of acquiring more.
Furthermore, the Phoenix Company is a foreign corporation, whose license to do business in the State of
South Carolina would expire upon the first day of April,
1912, and, therefore, it was within the power of the State,
so long as it did not impose upon the company as a condcition of doing business within the State any deprivation
of rights secured to it under the Federal Constitution,
to determine for itself the conditions upon which such
foreign corporation could do business within the State.
This principle has been often. affirmed by the decisions of
this court, and the Insurance Company, being within that.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.

Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

class of companies not doing an interstate business, the
State might, in the exercise of its lawful authority, exclude
it from doing business within the State, so long as no rights
conferred by the Constitution and laws of the United
States were destroyed or abridged. See Harrison v. St.
Louis & San Francisco R. R., 232 U..S. 318, 332, 333,
and cases in this court therein cited.
Assuming, without deciding, that the Phoenix Company
occupied such attitude in the State of South Carolina as
to entitle it to claim the benefit of the equal protection
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, we are of opinion
that upon this record no such facts are shown as would
lead to the conclusion that the action of the Insurance
Commissioner in this case amounted to a deprivation of
the equal protection of the law. The state court put its
decision, as we have seen, upon the ground that under the
authority given in the statute to the Insurance Commissioner to license one company and reject another, the
exercise of such statutory authority in good faith would
not make his action in any given case obnoxious to the
protection of the rule of equality prescribed by the Constitution.
*The equal protection of the laws, as this court has
frequently decided, means subjection to equal laws
applying alike to all in the same situation, or as expressed
by Mr. Justice Field, speaking for this court in Barbier
v. Connolly, 113 U. S. 27, 31,-a case much relied upon
by the plaintiffs in error,-equal protection of laws
means "that there should be no arbitrary deprivation of
life or liberty, or arbitrary spoliation of property, but
that equal protection and security should be given to all
under like circumstances, in the enjoyment of their
personal and civil rights. . . . That no greater burdens should be laid upon any one than are laid upon others
in the same calling and condition." In this general definition, the court recognizes, as it always has, that what

PHOENIX INS. CO. v. McMASTER.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the equal protection of the law requires is equality of
burdens upon those in like situation or condition. It
has always. been held consistent with this general requirement to permit the States to classify the subjects of legislation, and make differences of regulation where substantial differences of condition exist.
In this case, where the Insurance Commissioner was
under examination concerning the differences between
the treatment of the Mutual Benefit Life Insurance
Company and the Phoenix Company, after speaking of
the action of the Mutual Benefit Company in making
large loans in the State of South Carolina, when inquired
of as to whether approved loans of the Mutual Benefit
Company would bring property into the State of South
Carolina, against which local policy holders could enforte
their claims, the Commissioner answered that it was not
a question of added safety, but to have within the State
of South Carolina actual things that could be levied upon
in case of suit. These large loans of the Mutual Benefit
Company within the State of South Carolina would not
only bring property into that State, which might be
reached through the local courts, but would evidence a
purpose in the Company to remain in the State in a permanent way,-a fact which was entitled to significance
in determining the matter of licensing the Company to
do business.
The Supreme Court of South Carolina has sustained the
Act as giving authority, so far as the State is concerned,
to the Insurance Commissioner to take the action which
he did concerning the withholding of a license to the
Phoenix Company and the granting of licenses to other
companies, notably the Mutual Benefit Life Insurance
Company of New Jersey. We are only concerned with
the question whether this conduct of the state authority
was so arbitrary and discriminatory in its character as to
amount to a deprivation of the equal protection of the

74

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

237 U. S.

laws, within the meaning of the Federal Constitution.
We think the action here challenged was based upon real
and substantial differences, and was not that merely
arbitrary classification which this court has condemned
because of the Fourteenth Amendment.
We find no error in the judgment of the Supreme
Court of the State of South Carolina, and the same is
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA v. NOBLE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 127. Argued March 1, 2, 1915.-Decided April 5, 1915.
The Quapaw Indians are still under National tutelage; the guardianship of the United Sthtes continues notwithstanding the citizenship
conferred upon allottees.
W'here Congress has imposed restrictions upon alienation of an allotment, the United States has capacity to sue for the purpose of setting aside conveyances or contracts transferring such restrictions.
Restrictions under the act of March 2, 1895, being for a specified period,
were absolute and bound the land for that period Whether in the
hands of the allottee or his heirs except as to leasing it for the specified terms permitted by the act of June 10, 1896, or by the supplemental act of June 7, 1897; neither of those acts gave the allottee
or his heirs any power to dispose of his'or their interest in the lands
subject to the lease or any part of it,
Assignments of interest in rents and royalties which pertained to the
reversion of the land of 1896 and 1897 are invalid.
Rents and royalties already accrued from lands are personal property,
. but those to accrue are a part of the estate, remaining in the lessor.
"Overlapping leases" of Indian allotments are abnormal and the practice of making them facilitates abuses in dealing with ignorant and
inexperienced Indians.

