OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

237 U. S.

to connecting carriers outside the State; and whether the
railways were so associated as to make them jointly and
severally liable are-Inatters concluded by the decision of
the Supreme Court of Texas. There is no merit in the
Federal question relied on and the writ of error is
Dismissed.

UNITED STATES v. SHERMAN & SONS COMPANY.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 541.

Argued December 17, 18, 1914.-Decided April 5, 1915.

The Government will not allow foreign goods to be brought into this
country and then litigate with the importer as to the amount of
duty. The duty, as assessed by the Collector, must be paid in any
event, not only as a condition of entering the goods, but also as a
condition of the right to file a protest. After payment and protest the importer may exercise a right of review under the statutory
method and procedure provided therefor.
The assessment and collection of duties is an administrative matter,
no notice or hearing being necessary where the assessment is in rem
and against the foreign goods sought to be entered.
In case of fraud, inability on the part of the Government to proceed
in rem against goods fraudulently entered would not prevent it
from enforcing the personal liability of the importer in a suit in
personam. United States v. National Fiber Co., 133 Fed. Rep. 596,
approved.
An importer is not concluded by a reliquidation order made more
than one year after the entry where the complaint contains no allegation of the presence of a protest or of fraud, but may file his plea
and be heard in his defense as in other cases even though he did not
file a protest and make the payment required in the case of the original
*liquidation.
In a suit brought against an importer to recover the amount of duty

UNITED STATES v. SHERMAN.
237 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

assessed under a reliquidation made more than a year after the original liquidation the Government must conform to the general rule
of pleading where recovery is sought on the ground of fraud.
THESE two test cases raise the question of the power of
the Collector of Customs to make a reliquidation more
than a year after the duty on foreign merchandise has
been paid and the imported goods have been removed for
consumption. The cases are here on a certificate which
shows that in 1909 Sherman & Sons Company imported
certain laces from Syria and Egypt. The merchandise
was entered at the Port of New York and the duty thereon
was assessed by the Collector. The amount of duty thus
liquidated was paid by the importer and the goods were
removed in 1909.
More than four years thereafter the Collector made a
new assessment, or reliquidation, by which he increased
the amount of duties to be paid on the laces. Notice of
the reliquidation was given by the Collector to Sherman
& Sons Company. They filed no protest within the 15
day period mentioned in the Tariff Act of 1909, 36 Stat.
100, § 14, and thereafter two suits were brought by the
Government, in the United States District Court for the

Southern District of New York, for the recovery of the
difference between the duty assessed and paid in 1909 and
that fixed by the reliquidation in 1913.

The only substantial difference between the two cases is
that in No. 1 the suit was on a Liquidation Order which
contained no charge that the importer had been guilty of
fraud; while in No. 2 the action is based on a Reliquidation
Order which contained a statement that the "entries were
reliquidated by the said collector, as aforesaid, pursuant
tohis findings and decisions that they, as well as the con-'
sular invoices presented with them, upon the basis of
which the said entries were originally liquidated, as aforesaid, were false and fraudulent, and that the original

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Statement of the Case.

237 U. S.

liquidations and the delivery of the said goods, wares, and
merchandise, aforesaid, had been effected by and through
the fraud of the defendant."
In both suits the District Court sustained the demurrer
and the United States electing not to plead over, both actions were dismissed. The cases were then taken to the
Circuit Court of Appeals, which certified the following
questions:
"(1) Can an importer of dutiable merchandise, when
sued by the United States for a balance of duties found to
be due upon a reliquidation of the entry, attack the validity of the reliquidation, where it appears upon the face
of the complaint that the reliquidation was made more
than a year after the entry, and where the complaint contains no allegation of the presence of a protest or of fraud,
or is the remedy provided by the Customs Administrative
Act (act of June 10, 1890, and act of August 5, 1909, 26
Stat. 136 and 36 Stat. 100), viz., of protest, payment of
the full amount of duties ascertained to be due upon
the reliquidation and appeal to the board of general appraisers, and thence to the courts, the only way in which
he may attack the validity of the reliquidation?
"(2) Does the complaint in action No. 1 herein, all of
the allegations in which, with the exception of the formal
allegations of sovereignty and incorporation, are hereinabove set forth, state a good cause of action?
"(3) If the foregoing question is answered in the negative, then is it sufficient for the United States in order to
state a good cause of action to allege the finding or decision of the collector that there was fraud, as in action No. 2
herein, without alleging in what connection the collector
had made his finding or decision of fraud, i. e., whether
he had found fraud in the dutiable value, or in the classification, or in the quantity of the merchandise, and without alleging the presence of fraud as a fact or the facts
constituting the fraud?"

UNITED STATES v. SHERMAN.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Warren for the United
States:
The special method and special tribunals provided by
Congress for the correction of errors of tax officials are
exclusive, and if, under the tariff act of 1909, the importer
fails to protest and appeal to the Board of General Appraisers and the United States Court of Customs Appeals
he cannot contest the validity of the liquidation or reliquida'tion of duties when sued by the Government in the
District Court.
The action or decision of the collector of customs
upon the facts when acting in a discretionary or judicial
capacity is conclusive and cannot be reviewed by the
courts except when and in the manner permitted by
statute.
The act of June 22, 1874, § 21, is a statute of limitation.
It can be taken advantage of by importer only by means,
of a plea or answer as a matter of defense.
The objection that the rule contended for by the Government cats upon the importer the burden of proving a negative, i. e., the absence of fraud in the original
entry or liquidation, is not a sound one.. Such a burden
is often cast upon one of the parties to a legal controversy.
Mr. Thomas M. Lane and Mr. James M. Beck for Sherman & Sons Company.
MR. JUSTICE LAMAR, after making the foregoing statement of facts, delivered the opinion of the court.
The questions certified by the Circuit Court of Appeals
involve an inquiry as to whether the Collector of Customs,
after the expiration of one year, can make a finding of-fraud
and thereupon make a reliquidation of duties which is final
unless, within 15 days, the importer pays the amount thus

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

declared to be due so as to secure the right to a hearing
(1) on the finding of fraud and (2) on the correctness of the
new assessment on goods which had been removed for
consumption.
On the part of the Government it is claimed that this
power is conferred by § 21 of the act of 1874; 1 but it is a
significant fact that although the act has been in force for
more than 40 years there are only two instances reported,

in which the Collector, after the expiration of one. year,
has attempted to reliquidate because of the existence of
fraud. Those two cases (United States v. Vitelli, Customs
Ct. of Appeals (1914) and United States v. Federal Sugar

Co., 211 Fed. Rep. 1016) are of recent date and in direct
conflict with each other.
The novelty of the practice, the conflict in the two decisions and the statement that numerous suits on similar
reliquidation orders are now pending, justify a somewhat
detailed examination of the authority conferred upon the
Collector by the Tariff Act of 1909,2 36 Stat., p. 100, § 14;
1"That whenever any goods, . . . shall have been entered and passed free of duty, and whenever duties upon any imported goods, . . .
shall have been liquidated and paid, and such
goods, . . .
shall have been delivered to the owner,
such entry and passage free of duty, and such settlement of duties shall,
after the expiration of one year from the time of entry, in the absence of
fraud and in the absence of protest by the owner, importer, agent, or
consignee, be final and conclusive upon all parties." Act of June 24,
1874, 18 Stat. 190, § 21.
2Subsec. 14. "The decision of the Collector as to the rate and amount
of duties chargeable upon imported merchandise . . . shall be final
and conclusive against all persons interested therein unless the
owner . . . shall, within 15 days after . . . ascertainment
and liquidation of duties, . . . if dissatisfied with such decision,
give notice in writing to the Collector . . . the reasons for his
objections thereto, and if. the merchandise is entered for consumption
shall pay the full amount of the duties and charges ascertained to be due
thereon. Upon such notice and payment the Collector shall transmit

UNITED STATES v. SHERMAN.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

p. 98, § 12; the act of 1874,1 18 Stat. 190, and the Customs
Regulations prescribing the method of liquidating duties
and defining the effect of liquidation orders.
An analysis of the various provisions bearing on the
subject shows, that when foreign merchandise is to be
entered at a domestic port, the owner files his statutory
Declaration, together with the invoice, account and list
of the goods sought to be imported. United States v.
Salen, 235 U. S. 237. The Surveyor gives a certificate as
to weight or quantity, and the Appraiser issues a certificate of value. (Customs Regulations, 861, 1431, 1481,
1484.) With these documents before him-and with the
privilege of examining witnesses "touching any matter
deemed material in ascertaining the dutiable value and
classification of the merchandise, "-the Collector determines the rate of duty to be imposed under the Tariff Act
and thereupon calculates, assesses and liquidates the
amount to be paid. His decision, as to the amount of duty
is final-unless within 15 days the importer files a protest
and pays the full amount of duty thus liquidated. In that
event the Collector is required to transmit the invoice and
all the papers connected therewith to the Board of Nine
General Appraisers for their determination of .the questions raised by the protest. From them the case can be
taken to the Court of Customs Appeals. If the decision
the invoice and all the papers and exhibits connected therewith to
the Board of Nine General Appraisers, for due assignment and deterSuch determination shall be final
mination. . .
cept in cases where an application shall be fied in the .

.

.

.

.

exCourt

of Customs Appeals within the time and in the method provided for
in this act." § 28, Subsec. 14, Tariff Act of 1909, 36 Stat. 100.
"All notices in writing to Collectors of dissatisfaction of any decision thereof as to the rate or amount of duties chargeable upon imported merchandise,

.

.

.

with the invoice, and aNl papers and

exhibits, shall be forwarded to the Board of Nine General Appraisers

.

.

.

36 Stat. 98, subsec. 12.

I See note 1, page 150.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

is in favor of the importer provision is made for a refund
of any overcharge assessed against him.
If, however, there is no such protest, payment and appeal, the Collector's decision is final as to the amount of duty
(36 Stat. 100, subsection 14) except that for one year-certainly when the goods have not passed beyond his
reach (Iasigi v. Collector, 1 Wall. 384),-the Collector,
like a court during the term at which a judgment is entered, has full control of the assessment, and may on his
own motion set aside his first order and make a reliquidation. Robertson v. Downing, 127 U. S. 613. Where there
is no such renewal or continuance of the original proceeding, but, where the duty is paid, as assessed, the statute
(18 Stat. 190, § 21) provides that the "settlement shall,
after the expiration of one year, in the absence of fraud, be
final and conclusive upon all parties."
1. This brief review of the many and detailed provisions
of the statutes will suffice to show that the Government
will not allow foreign goods to be brought into this country
and then litigate with the importer as to the amount of
duty. Neither bond, nor security, nor retention of the
goods during litigation, will dispense with the necessity of
payment. The duty, as assessed by the Collector, must
be paid in any event,-not only as a condition of the goods
being entered, but also as a condition of the right to file a
protest. When that has been done, Congress, in order to
prevent injustice, has given the importer, who thus pays
and protests, the right to bring the goods into the United
States, has granted him the opportunity to review the
finding of the Collector and has also given him the promise of a refund in case the Collector is found to have made
an overcharge. (36 Stat. 103, subsection 23.) But this
right of review is not an appeal in ordinary course of law
and can be exercised only in the statutory method, on
statutory conditions before special statutory tribunals of
limited jurisdiction.

UNITED STATES v. SHERMAN.

237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

2. This summary method of collection, and the requirement that duties be paid as assessed before the right to
litigate arises, is an incident of the fact that the assessment
and collection of duties is an administrative matter-no
notice or hearing being necessary'since the assessment is
in rem and against the foreign goods which are sought to
be entered. The amount is determined by inspection of
experts, and payment is enforced against the merchandise
actually in custody of the customs officers, who cannot
permit its removal until the assessed charges have been
paid.
If, after the duty had been paid and the goods had been
removed, it should be made to appear that they had been
fraudulently entered and were still in the possession of the
importer, they could be retaken and condemned in forfeiture proceedings. Or, if after the expiration of one year
it should be discovered that, as alleged in the present case,
there had been false invoices, false weights, or fraud of any
kind, by which the United States had been deprived of its
just dues, and if the goods themselves could not be found,
so as to be forfeited, the inability to proceed in rem would
not prevent the Government from bringing a suit in
personam to enforce the importer's personal liability for
the debt which accrued and which rightfully should have
been paid when the foreign merchandise was entered at
the domestic port.
This is illustrated by the decision in United States v.
National Fiber Company, 133 Fed. Rep. 596, cited by the
Government on another branch of the argument. It there
appeared that certain bales of flax had been fraudulently
entered as waste-paper stock. In the suit brought in a
Federal court to recover the duties that-should have been
-paid, the importer insisted that the Government was
limited to the summary and statutory method of liquidation above mentioned, claiming that "as soon as property
is fraudulently withdrawn the power to collect the duty

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

ceases, and fines, penalties and forfeitures are imposed."
In answering this contention the court cited Meredith v.
United States, 13 Pet. 486, and quoted the following correct statement of the law in United States v. Cobb, 11 Fed.
Rep. 78:
"The summary proceedings which the customs officers
are required by law to take against the goods are in the
nature of proceedings in rem, but are not the sole remedies
of the Government for the collection of the duties.
The act makes the duties a personal debt or charge upon
the importer which accrues to the Government ,upon the
arrival of the goods at the proper port of entry. They are
due although the goods have been smuggled, or for any
reason have never come to the hands of the customs officers, or the statutory proceedings have never been instituted, or through accident, mistake, or fraud no duties
or short duties have been paid. The importer is not discharged from his debt by a delivery to him of the goods
without payment."
3. It is said, however, that even if the United States
can bring a suit, against the importer, to recover a personal judgment for the duties on goods fraudulently undervalued, that does not deprive the Collector of the power
to reliquidate impliedly given by the act of 1874. And
it is further argued that, where such statutory method of
liquidation is adopted by the Collector, only the statutory
method of defense, by protest and payment, is available
to the importer. As the importers here filed no protest and
made no payment of the duty reliquidated in 1913, it is
said that the Collector's finding is as conclusive as was his
original liquidation in 1909.
But while the tariff act makes the decision of the Collector final as" to the ratesand amount of duties"; and while
the act of 1874 provides that when such duties have been
paid "such settlement, after the expiration of one year, and
in the absence of fraud, shall be ninal and conclusive,"-yet

UNITED STATES v. SHERMAN.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

in neither of these laws did Congress authorize the Collector to make findings of fraud. Those statutes relate to
a power to be exercised when the foreign merchandise was
in the custody of the custw'm9 officers. By virtue of that
possession they were not obliged to hear testimony, but
by inspection could determine weight, value and classification, and, as experts (In re Muser, 49 Fed. Rep. 831),
perform the administrative function of liquidating the
amount of duty that must be paid before such foreign
goods could be brought into the country.
To that judgment in rem, against particular goods in
custody, the statute gave a certain quality of finality. But
a wholly different situation, and one not provided for by
statute, would arise if, after the expiration of the year, the
Collector-or his successor in office who had no knowledge
of the original transaction-should undertake to reliquidate duties on goods that had been removed and consumed. In such case-the merchandise not being in
possession of the customs officers-the essential facts as
to weight, value and classification could not be determined
by the inspection of experts, as contemplated by law, but
would depend upon the testimony of witnesses. If in
addition to this new, and non-statutory, method of fixing
the amount of duty there is to be added a jurisdiction authorizing the Collector to declare that there had been
fraud in the procurement of the original liquidation, it will
be seen that the limited administrative power to make a
quasi-judgment in rem, against goods in possession, has
grown with the lapse of time, and that the authority
claimed for the Collector on reliquidation is far more extensive than that exercised when the original order was
entered. For, according to the argument now made, he
can, after the expiration of one year, not only hear testimony as to the value of goods not in possession, but, without notice to the importer, can declare him to have been
guilty of fraud 'and make that finding of fraud and value

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

conclusive unless, within 15 days, the importer protests
and pays the amount of the reassessment as the condition
of the right to defend. If, within the 15 days, the importer
protests but is unable to make such payment, it is claimed
that such reliquidation becomes conclusive, so that in a
suit to collect the sum thus declared to be due, the Government is not only relieved from the burden of proving
the Collector's charge of fraud, but the importer would
not be permitted to defend, even to establish his innocence.
The statement of the proposition is well calculated to
raise a doubt as to its correctness. Sabariego v. Maverick,
124 U. S. 261,291-293. For if the Collector, after one year,
can determine that there had been fraud, and thereupon
can make a reliquidation having suchi chgracteristics of
finality as is here claimed for his finding, he can, as in the
present case, do so at the end of 4 years; or as in the
Vitelli Case, after 7 years; or, as in other pending cases
referred to in the argument, after 15 years. If-after
such a lapse of time, in which parties may die, witnesses
may remove or documents be lost-the Collector can
make a finding of fraud which can be resisted only upon
condition of paying the amount of the reliquidated duties,
then there will be many instances in which the importer,
and many more instances in which his heirs, will be unable to make the cash payment so as to secure the right
to prove that there was no fraud either in fact or in
law.
Whether such right to defend, granted on such onerous
and sometimes impossible conditions, would afford due
process of law to the citizen, otherwise liable to be bound
in personam by such reliquidation, need not be discussed.
For certainly such a power will not be implied and none
such can be found in the Tariff Act of 1909 or in § 21 of
the act of 1874. They provide that in the absence of protest a finding of value is conclusive and that the settlement,

UNITED STATES v. SHERMAN.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

in accordance with that finding, is," . . . in the absence of fraud, final and conclusive."
But there is no provision as. to the method in which, or
the tribunal before which, the existence of the nullifying
fraud can be determined. The silence of Congress on that
subject, however, cannot be construed as the expression
of an intent to enlarge the administrative function of the
Collector into power and jurisdiction to declare that, years
before, there had been fraud in the procurement of the
order liquidating duties on goods removed.
On the contrary, the failure to make special provision,
as to the method of setting aside such orders for fraud,
was a recognition of the fact that the determination of the
question as to whether there was fraud involved an exercise of the judicial rather than the executive function and
that therefore such orders were subject to the general provisions of law by which any other fraudulent judgment
can be set aside by the courts in proceedings seasonably
begun. Bailey v. Glover, 21 Wall. 342. By such general
law the party sought to be affected must be informed of
the nature of the fraud which the complainant undertakes
to establish and must be given notice and opportunity to
be heard in his defense, before the old order can be set
aside and a new order entered.
This conclusion is not in conflict with the principle which
recognizes that the Government may proceed in rem
against foreign goods sought to be entered; or without a
judicial hearing, may determine the amount of taxes due
by a citizen, and make that administrative finding a lien,
which can be resisted only on condition that bond and
security be given to pay what is prima facie a valid lien
on the property of the taxpayer. McMillen v. Anderson,
95 U. S. 37. For it is not claimed that the reliquidation
order here is a general or a special lien, but only that it
forms the basis of a suit in which a judgment in personam
can be obtained. In such a suit the fraud relied on must

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

be alleged and proved. To sustain the Government's contention that .the Collector's finding, was conclusive unless
protest and payment had been made would be equivalent
to saying that a charge of fraud in procuring goods,
whether made by a Collector or by a Grand Jury, could
be made conclusive, unless before the trial the defendant
restored the goods or their value.
These conclusions indicate the general nature of the
answer to be given to the questions certified by the Circuit
Court of Appeals-though their form is such as to make
it impossible to give a categorical answer of Yes or No.
1. As to the question marked 1, we hold that the importer is not concluded by the reliquidation order, and
when suit is brought for the amount claimed to be due
he may file his plea and be heard in his defense as in other
cases, even though he did not file a protest and make the
payment required in the case of the original liquidation.
2. The question marked 2 we answer No.
3. To the question marked 3, we answer No-the Government in such a suit being obliged to conform to the
general rule of pleading where recovery is sought on the
ground of fraud.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS

took no part in the consid-

eration or decision of this case.

