PENNA. R. R. v. PURITAN COAL CO.
237 U. S.

Syllabus.

PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD COMPANY v. PURITAN COAL MINING COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 76.

Argued November 11, 1914.-Decided April 5, 1915.

Section 8 .of the Act to Regulate Commerce gives the shipper a right
of action against the carrier for damages occasioned by his doing an
act prohibited by the statute, and § 9 gives the shipper the option to
proceed either before the'Interstate Commerce Commission or in
the Federal courts.
Construing §§ 8 and 22, however, in connection with the statute as a
whole, the Act to Regulate Commerce is both declaratory and creative, and while shippers are given new rights, existing causes of action
are preserved and the jurisdiction of state courts is not superseded,
in cases in which the decision does not involve the determination of
matters calling for the exercise of administrative power and discretion of the Commission or relate to subjects over which exclusive
jurisdiction is given to the Federal courts.
While the Federal courts may have exclusive jurisdiction of a suit
brought to declare that a rule of practice promulgated by the carrier
is unfair, a suit for damages occasioned by the violation or discriminatory enforcement of the carrier's rule, fair on its face and not attacked as unfair, does not involve administrative questions but only
those. Qf fact; and even though for damages arising in interstate
commerce, such a suit is not within the exclusive jurisdiction of the
Federal courts, but may be prosecuted either in those courts or in the
state courts.
The state courts have jurisdiction of an action of the shipper against
the carrier to furnish a reasonable number of cars, whether the
action be treated as one for breach of the common law duty to
furnish the cars or for unjust discrimination in allotting cars to
another shipper in violation of the carrier's own rule to furnish all
the shippers on an equal pro rata basis. The jurisdiction of the state
court is not defeated because the breach of common law duty is also
an unjust discrimination.
Motive for breach of common law dutyof the carrier to furnish a reasonable number of cars is immaterial, and what was a proper supply
under the circumstances is a matter of fact.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Statement of the Case.

237 U. S.

While, ordinarily, a shipper on reasonable demand is entitled to all the
cars it can promptly load, that right is not absolute, and a carrier
is not liable for failure to supply cars as the result of sudden and
great demands which it had no reason to apprehend, but in a
case of car shortage it is bound to treat shippers fairly if not identically.
Where there is a shortage and the shipper complains that the carrier's
rule of distribution is unfair, the question is for the Commission,
Morrisdale Coal Co. v. Penna. R. R., 230 U. S. 312, but where the
.shipper does not attack the rule itself but complains that the carrier
refused to furnish the number of cars it was entitled to under the
rule, while other shippers were furnished more cars than they were
entitled to under the same rule, a preliminary finding of the Commission is unnecessary; and even if the shipments were interstate
the state and Federal courts have jurisdiction.
An exception is properly disallowed by the statet appellate court, and
will be disregarded by this court, if no relevant testimony was offered
to support it and no point thereon raised in the trial court.
237 Pa. St. 420, affirmed.

IN March 1908, the Puritan Coal Mining Company
brought suit in the Court of Common Pleas of Clearfield
County, Pennsylvania, against the Pennsylvania Railroad Company for damages caused by the latter's failure
to furnish cars needed for the transportation of coal. On
November 21, 1908, the plaintiff filed a "Statement of
Claim" in which it was alleged that the defendant was a
common carrier of freight between points within the State
of Pennsylvania and as such bound to furnish shippers
with adequate facilities for the transportation of coal, but
that the carrier did not, as required by law, furnish the
plaintiff with sufficient cars to enable it to transport coal
mined by it. By reason of such failure to perform its duty
and legal obligation, the defendant caused the plaintiff
damage to the extent of $260,777.
Other paragraphs in the Statement alleged that the
carrier established and published the capacity of all coal
mines in the region reached by its railway; that, as a
common carrier, it was bound to furnish cars upon the

PENNA. R. R. v. PURITAN COAL CO.
237 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

basis of equality in proportion to the rated capacity of
plaintiff's mines. But, disregarding its duty, under the
statute of the State, the defendant did, unreasonably as
well as unlawfully, refuse to furnish the plaintiff with its
pro rata share of coal cars held for daily distribution and
did subject the plaintiff to unreasonable disadvantage in
that it favored and did unduly and unreasonably discriminate in favor of the Berwind-White Coal Company
by giving to the latter 500 cars before distributing any
to the plaintiff. By reason of the undue and unjust discrimination against the plaintiff and the undue preference
in favor of the Berwind-White Company the plaintiff
was not furnished with the cars to which it was entitled
and thereby lost the profit of $260,777 which it could and
would have made on coal, which it could and would have
shipped had it received its due proportion of cars.
On November 23, 1908 and again in April 1911' other
Statements were filed which repeated and amplified the
charge of unjust discrimination in the distribution of cars
whereby the plaintiff received less and the Berwind-White
Company more than was proper under the rule of allotment, established by the carrier.
The defendant moved to dismiss the case because the
state court was without jurisdiction. The court held that
the motion was bad as a demurrer; bad as a plea in abatement, and dismissed it as having been prematurely made.
The defendant filed no other defense except a plea of the
Statute of Limitations as to certain items of damage
claimed in an amendment to the original Statement.
By consent the case was heard by the judge without a
jury. He made a report of the facts from which it appears that: Ordinarily the carrier was able to furnish shippers with cars on demand; but in 1902 there was a strike
in the Anthracite Region which cut off the usual supply
of anthracite coal to eastern cities and compelled them to
use bituminous coal mined along the lines of the Pennsyl-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Statement of the Case.

237 U. S.

vania Railway. The new demand for soft coal was so
great that the Railroad Company was not able to supply
the full number of cars called for by the mining companies
on its line. Its established rule in such cases was that cars
should be allotted to the several coal Districts in proportion to their output, the cars thus allotted to the Districts
being. then distributed to the mining companies therein in
proportion to their capacity. During the Anthracite Coal
Strike, however, the carrier violated this rule and made
excessive allotments to the "Scalp Level Region," in
which the Berwind mines were located, and made too
small an allotment to the "Mountain Region" in which
the Puritan mines were situated.
There was evidence that the Puritan Company had
orders for coal at a price which would have netted it a
large profit. The coal so ordered was to be delivered" Free
On Board" the cars at the Puritan mines-the purchaser
and consignee paying the freight to points of destination
within and without the State. There was evidence that
the Puritan Company was ready, willing and able to make
such sales and deliveries and constantly demanded cars
in order to enable it to fill these orders. Sometimes the
carrier for days would fail to furnish cars, with the result
that the company's mining operations were seriously interrupted. Sometimes the Puritan got cars but not the full
number to which it was entitled on the basis of distribution according to mine capacity, although the BerwindWhite Company during the same period received more
than its proportion.
The Railroad Company's elaborate and detailed Distribution Sheets were introduced in evidence. They
shbwed the number of cars to be allotted to mines on the
basis of capacity for each day of the period during which
the car shortage existed. From these Sheets and the other
evidence in the case it appeared that the Berwind Company received many more cars than its share and that the

PENNA. R. R. v. PURITAN COAL CO.
237 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Puritan received several thousand less than its proportion.
There was proof as to the number of tons these cars could
have hauled; that the Puritan had orders for coal which it
would have sold if these cars had been furnished; there
was also evidence as to the royalty and cost of production,
with data on which to make calculation of the damage
resulting from the failure to receive cars.
The trial judge held that the state court had jurisdiction and entered a judgment for the plaintiff, which with
interest amounted to $74,323.88. Exceptions to the report were overruled and the case was taken to the Supreme
Court of Pennsylvania on assigmnents in which complaint
was made that the trial judge erred"(1) in holding that the state court had jurisdiction;
(2) in failing to hold that, under the Commerce Act,
the Federal court alone had jurisdiction;
(3) in holding that the business between the Puritan
Company and the Railroad was intrastate business where
coal was sold F. 0. B. the cars at the mines;
(4) in holding that the plaintiff could recover damages
for failure to receive cars intended for use in shipping coal
outside the State;
(5) in adopting the method for distributing cars on
which the damages were collected;
(6) in failing "to take into account the private or individual cars, so-called, which were delivered to the plaintiff during the period of the action in determining the number which it would have been entitled to receive of the
additional cars which t.e court has found should have
been allotted to the region or district in which the plaintiff's mines were located."
Mr. Francis I. Gowen, with whom Mr. FredericD. McKenney and Mr. John G. Johnson were on the brief, for
plaintiff in error:
The Interstate Commerce Act alone is applicable.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914:

Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

Actions for breach of the Interstate Commerce Act are
not maintainable in state courts.
Cars while being loaded preparatory to interstate movement are employed in interstate commerce.
If the action is maintainable as to intrastate cars, unjust
discrimination in distribution of such must be shown to
justify
recovery.
In determining
the number of cars the shipper is entitled
to, his individual or private cars must be counted. Balt.
& Ohio R. R. Co. v. PitcairnCoal Co., 215 U. S. 481 ; Adams
Exp. Co. v. New York, 232 U. S. 14; Chicago &c. Railway
Co. v. Hardwick Elevator Co., 226 U. S. 426; Clark Brothers
v. Penna. R. R., 241 Pa. St. 515; Hillsdale Coal Co. v.
Penna. R. R., 19 I. C. C. 356; Int. Comm. Comm. v. Ill.
Cent. R. R., 215 U. S. 452; Loomis v. Lehigh Valley R. R.,
208 N. Y. 312; Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352; Mo..
Pac. Ry. v. Larabee Mills, 211 U. S. 612; Morrisdale Coal
Co. v. Penna. R. R., 230 U. S. 304; North CarolinaR. R.
v. Zachary, 231 U. S. 305; Nor. Pac. Ry. v. Pacific Coast
Ass'n, 165 Fed. Rep. 1; Nor. Pac. Ry. v. Washington, 222
U. S. 370; Ohio v. Worthington, 225 U. S. 101; Pennsylvania R. R. v. Int. Comm. Comm., 193 Fed. Rep. 81;
Savage v. Jones, 225 U. S. 501; Sheldon v. Wabash Ry.,
105 Fed. Rep. 785; Southern Ry. v. Reid, 222 U. S. 424;
Stineman Mining Co. v. Pennsylvania R. R., 241 Pa. St.
509; Tex. & Pac. Ry. v. Sabine Tram Co., 227 U. S. 111;
Thompson v. Pennsylvania R. R., 10 I. C. C. 640; Van
Patten v. Chi., Mil. & St. P Ry., 74 Fed. Rep. 981; Yazoo
& Miss. Valley R. R. v. Greenwood Grocery Co., 227 U. S. 1.
Mr. A. M. Liveright and Mr. A. L. Cole for defendant in
error.
MR. JusTicE LAMAR, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
The Pennsylvania Railroad Company, an interstate
carrier, was sued in a state court for damages caused by its

PENNA. R. R. v. PURITAN COAL CO.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

failure to furnish the Puritan Company with cars in which
to load coal for shipment to points within and without the
State. The pleadings alleged not only that the carrier had
failed to perform its duty to furnish cars, but that in violation of a state statute it had unjustly discriminated against
the Puritan Company by failing to distribute cars in accordance with the carrier's own rule that, in time of
shortage, they should be allotted to the coal companies on
the basis of mine capacity.
The trial court held that the plaintiff was entitled to
recover damages caused by the unjust discrimination in
distribution of cars. The Supreme Court of Pennsylvania
did likewise and affirmed the judgment in favor of the
plaintiff. 237 Pa. St. 420.
The Railway Company then brought the case here
insisting in effect that (1) the determination of the proper
basis for the distribution of cars was a matter calling for
the exercise of the power of the Interstate Commerce
Commission; (2) that no court had jurisdiction of a suit
against it for discriminatory allotment until after the
Commission had determined that its rule for distribution
was improper; and (3) that no suit for damages against
an interstate carrier could be brought for damages occasioned by a failure to deliver cars or for an unjust discrinination in distribution, except in a United States court.
1. These contentions involve a consideration of the
jurisdiction of the Commission, of the state courts, and
of the Federal courts. But fortunately it will not be necessary to enter into an elaborate discussion of each of the
questions.
Section 3 1 of the Commerce Act makes it unlawful for
'"SEc. 3. It shall be unlawful for any common carrier subject to the
provisions of this act to make or give any undue or unreasonable preference or advantage to any particular person, company, firm, corporation, or locality, or any particular description of traffic, in any respect
whatsoever, or to subject any particular person, company, firm, cor-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

the carrier to unduly prefer one shipper over another.
Section 8 1 gives a right of action against the carrier for
damages occasioned by his doing an act prohibited by the
statute, and § 9 provides:
"That any person or persons claiming to be damaged
by any common carrier subject to the provisions of this
act may either make complaint to the Commission as
hereinafter provided for, or may bring suit in his or their
own behalf for the recovery of the damages for which
such common carrier may be liable under the provisions
of this act, in any district or circuit court of the United
States of competent jurisdiction; but such person or persons shall not have the right to pursue both of said remedies, and must in each case elect which one of the two
methods of procedure herein provided for he or they will
adopt."
It will be seen that this section does more than create
a right and designate the court in which it is to be enforced.
It gives the shipper the option to proceed before the
Commission or in the Federal courts. The express grant
of the right of choice between those two remedies was
the exclusion of any other remedy in a state court; and
that the Federal tribunals have exclusive jurisdiction
of a certain class of cases referred to in § 9 has been recogporation, or locality, or any particular description of traffic, to any
undue or unreasonable prej udice or disadvantage in any respect whatsoever."
' "SEC. 8. That in case any common carrier subject to the provisions
of this act shall do, cause to be done, or permit to be done any act,
matter, or thing in this act prohibited or declared to be unlawful, or
shall omit to do any act, matter, or thing in this act required to be done,
such common carrier shall be liable to the person or persons injured
thereby for the full amount of damages sustained in consequence of
any such violation of the provisions of this act, together with a reasonable counsel or attorney's fee, to be fixed by the court in every case
of recovery, which attorney's fee shall be taxed and collected as part
of the costs in the case."

PENNA. R. R. v. PURITAN COAL CO.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

nized in the few decisions dealing with the question.
See Copp v. Railroad Co., 43 La. Ann. 511; Carlisle v.
Missouri Pacific, 168 Missouri, 656; Western &c. R. R.
v. White, 82 S. E. Rep. 644; Gulf, C. & S. F. Ry. v.
Moore,'98 Texas, 302; Puritan v. Pennsylvania Co., 237
Pa. St. 448. In Mitchell Company v. Pennsylvania Railroad, 230 U. 5. 250, the same view of the statute was taken
in discussing another, but related, question. This construction is also supported by the legislative history of
the statute. For while the Hepburn Act, as a convenience
to shippers, permitted suits on Reparation Orders to be
brought in the Federal court of the District where the
plaintiff resided or the Company had its principal office;
and while the act of 1910 (36 Stat. 554) in further aid of
shippers, permitted suits on Reparation Orders to be
brought in state or Federal courts, it made no change
in §§ 8 and 9 which, as shown above, gave the shipper
the option to make complaints to the Commission or to
bring suit in a United States court.
2. But §§ 8 and 9 standing alone might have been
construed to give the Federal courts exclusive jurisdiction of all suits for damages occasioned by the carrier
violating any of the old duties which were preserved and
the new obligations which were imposed by the Commerce
Act. And, evidently, for the purpose of preventing such
a result, the Proviso to § 22 declared that "nothing in
this act contained shall in any way abridge or alter the
remedies now existing at common law or by statute, but
the provisions of this act are in addition to such remedies."
That proviso was added at the end of the statute,not to nullify other parts of the Act, or to defeat rights
or remedies given by preceding sections,-but to preserve all existing rights which were not inconsistent with
those created by the statute. It was also intended to
preserve existing remedies, such as those by which a
shipper could, in a state court, recover for damages to
VOL. ccxxxv1-9

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

property while in the hands of the interstate carrier;
damages caused by delay in shipment; damages caused
by failure to comply with its common law duties and the
like. But for this proviso to § 22 it might have been
claimed that, Congress having entered the field, the
whole subject of liability of carrier to shippers in interstate commerce had been withdrawn from the jurisdiction of the state courts and this clause was added to indicate that the Commerce Act, in giving rights of action
in Federal courts, was not intended to deprive the state
courts of their general and concurrent jurisdiction. Galveston &c. R. R. v. Wallace, 223 U. S. 481.
Construing, therefore, §§ 8, 9 and 22 in connection with
the statute as a whole, it appears that the Act was both
declaratory and creative. It gave shippers new rights,
while at the same time preserving existing causes of action.
It did not supersede the jurisdiction of state courts in
any case, new or old, where the decision did not involve
the determination of matters calling for the exercise of
the administrative power and discretion of the Commission; or relate to a subject as to which the jurisdiction
of the Federal courts had otherwise been made exclusive.
Compare Abilene Case, 204 U. S. 439, 446: Robinson v.
Balt. & Ohio, 222 U. S. 506; 36 Stat. 551 (15); 38 Stat. 220.
In the light of these conclusions, and bearing in mind
that the damages sued for here are found to have been
inflicted during the anthracite strike of 1902 (before the
passage of the Hepburn Act of 1906) it becomes necessary
to determine whether the plaintiff's suit was based on a
right of action as against an interstate carrier of which
the state court had jurisdiction.
3. The difficulty in answering the question grows out
of. the double character of the pleadings and the construction given the facts by the state court.
The "Statement" contains four counts-one on the
common law liability for failure to furnish cars, and the

PENNA. R. R. v. PURITAN COAL CO.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

other three for damages occasioned by unjust discrimination. The plaintiff seems to have ignored his common
law cause of action and the trial court entered a judgment
for plaintiff for damages as for unjust discrimination.
The Supreme Court of Pennsylvania affirmed the judgment, but said that 'if the case was with the plaintiff
on its facts, and it is so found there was an offense threefold in character: (1) the offense against the common law,
(2) an offense against the Pennsylvania statute of June 3,
1883, making undue and unreasonable discrimination
unlawful, (3) an offense against § 3 of the Federal statute
regulating interstate commerce.'
There are several decisions, already cited, which hold
that suits against Railroads for unjust discrihnination
in interstate commerce can only be brought in the Federal
courts. But it must be borne in mind that there are
two forms of discrimination-one in the rule and the
other in the manner of its enforcement; one in promulgating a discriminatory rule, the other in the unfair enforcement of a reasonable rule, In a suit where the rule
of practice itself is attacked as unfair or discriminatory,
a question is raised which calls for the exercise of the
judgment and discretion of the administrative power
which has been vested by Congress in the Commission.
It is for that body to say whether such a rule unjustly
discriminates against one class of shippers in favor of
another. Until that body hag declared the practice to be
discriminatory and unjust no court has jurisdiction of a
suit against an interstate carrier for damages occasioned
by its enforcement. When the Commission has declared
the rule to be unjust, redress must be sought before the
Commission or in the United States courts of competent
jurisdiction as provided in § 9.
IBut if the carrier's rule, fair on its face, has been unequally applied and the suit is for damages, occasioned
by its violation or discriminatory enforcement, there is

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

no administrative question involved, the courts being
called on to decide a mere question of fact as to whether
the carrier has violated the rule to plaintiff's damage.
Such suits though against an interstate carrier for damages
arising in interstate commerce, may be prosecuted either
in the statebr Federal courts.
4. It makes little difference what name is given the
cause of action sued on in the present case; or whether
it is treated as a suit for a breach of the carrier's common
law duty to furnish cars, or an action for damages for the
carrier's unjust discrimination in allotting cars to the
Berwind-White Company, while at the same time refusing to follow its own rule and furnish them to the Puritan
Company on the basis of mine capacity. In either case
the liability is the same. For where the carrier performs
its duty to A and at the same time fails to perform its
duty to B, there has been, in a sense, a discrimination
against B. In those instances neither the cause of action,
nor the jurisdiction of the court, is defeated because the
breach of duty is also called an unjust discrimination.
In the present case the pleadings contained no reference
to the Commerce Act. The damages grew solely out
of the fact that the Puritan Company failed to receive
the number of cars to which it was entitled. The plaintiff's
right and measure of recovery would have been exactly
the same if the cars had been furnished to a Manufacturing Plant, instead of to the Berwind-White Coal Company.
The plaintiff's cause of action and damages would have
been the same if the failure to receive the cars had been
due to the fact that 'the carriers negligently allowed
empty cars to stand on side tracks; or, if by reason of a
negligent mistake they had been sent to the wrong point.
The motive causing the short supply of cars was therefore wholly immaterial, except as corroboration of other
evidence showing an actual shortage of cars, so that, if
we ignore the plaintiff's characterization of the defend-

PENNA. R. R. v. PURITAN COAL CO.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ant's conduct, and consider the nature of the case, alleged
in the first count and established by the evidence, it will
appear that the Puritan Company was entitled to recover
because of the fact that the carrier failed to comply with
its common law liability to furnish it with a proper number
of cars. What was a proper supply was a matter of fact.
5. Ordinarily a shipper, on reasonable demand, would
be entitled to all the cars which it could promptly load
with freight to be transported over the carrier's line. But
that is not an absolute right and the carrier is not liable
if its failure to furnish cars was the result of sudden and
great demands which it had -noreason to apprehend would
be made and which it could not reasonably have been
expected to meet in full. The common law of old in requiring the carrier to receive all goods and passengers
recognized that "if his coach be full" he was not liable
for failing to transport more than he could carry. Hutchinson on Carriers, 146; Lovett v. Hobbs, 2 Shower, 127;
Riley v. Home, 2 Bing. 217; Peet v. Ry., 20 Wisconsin,
594. The same principle is applicable to those who transport freight in cars drawn by steam locomotives. The
law exacts only what is reasonable from such carriersbut, at the same time, requires that they should be equally
reasonable in the treatment of their patrons. In case of
car shortage occasioned by unexpected demands, they are
bound to treat shippers fairly, if not, identically. In determining how the inadequate supply shall be distributed,
it might be necessary to consider the character of the
freight tendered-whether perishable or staple and
whether a necessity of life needed in crowded cities and
the like. In the distribution of cars to coal companies it
might be necessary to determine whether account should
be taken of system cars, foreign cars, private cars and the
company's own coal cars. In many cases the determination of such an issue would call for the exercise of the
regulating function of the Commission. That was true

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

in Morrisdale Coal Co. v. Pennsylvania Railroad,230 U. S.
304, 312-314. There the plaintiff admitted that it had
received all the cars to which it was entitled under the
carrier's rule, b ut insisted that the rule itself was unreasonable and unjustly discriminatory since it took no account of private and foreign cars controlled by the mining
company. The reasonableness of the rule was a matter
for the Commission.
6. The present suit, however, is not of that nature. It
is not based on the ground that the Pennsylvania Railroad's rule to distribute in case of car shortage on the basis
of mine capacity, was unfair, unreasonable, discriminatory,
or preferential. But, as shown above, the plaintiff alleged
it was damaged by reason of the carrier's failure to furnish
it with cars to which it was entitled. In support of that
issue of fact the plaintiff relied on the carrier's own rule as
evidence. That rule, and the carrier's Distribution Sheets,
showed the number of cars to which the Plaintiff, the
Berwind-White Company and other Coal Companies in
the district, were each entitled. The evidence further
showed that the plaintiff did not receive that number of
cars to which by rule it was thus entitled. So that on the
trial there was no administrative question as to the reasonableness of the rule but only a claim for damages occasioned by its violation in failing to furnish cars. Penia.
R. R. Co. v. International Coal Co., 230 U. S. 197. The
state and Federal courts had concurrent jurisdiction of
such claim against an interstate carrier without a preliminary finding by the Commission.
7. It is, however, argued that such a question, calling
for the exercise of the administrative function of the Commission, did in fact arise out of the defendant's claim and
contention that the court should have taken private cars
into account in determining whether the plaintiff received
the number to which it was entitled. But, probably because of the carrier's own rule of distribution, there was

CHAPMAN v. ZOBELEIN.
237 U. S.

Syllabus.

no pleading raising such an issue, and there was no sufficient evidence as to the number of private cars received
by the Puritan, the Berwind-White, or other companies.
The information on that subject was peculiarly within the
knowledge of the carrier and proof adequate to furnish a
basis for the contention should have been offered-if,
indeed, the carrier could have been heard to insist that
private cars should have been counted when its own rule,
as well as the general practice in the United States, was to
exclude them in calculating the number of coal cars to
which each min6 was entitled. Neither need we inquire
whether the fact that the Commission subsequently announced a rule, under which private cars had to be taken
into account in making the distribution, could be given a
retrospective effect. For, be that as it may be, the exception was properly disallowed, because, as held by the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, no relevant evidence was
offered to support the c6ntention, and no point was raised
during the trial, that private cars should be counted in the
distribution.
Judgment affirmed.

CHAPMAN v. ZOBELEIN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA.
No. 200.

Submitted March 11, 1915.-Decided April 5, 1915.

An issue as to the invalidity of a tax levy merely because excessive
does not raise a Federal question.
A statute providing for the sale of property for taxes giving an opportunity to be heard as to the fairness of the original assessment and
providing'notice be given of the place and time of sale with a right
of redemption for five years, does not deprive the owner of his prop-

