OCTOBER TERM, 1914.

186

237 U. S.

Syllabus.

DETROIT TRUST COMPANY, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY OF COATES, v. PONTIAC SAVINGS
BANK.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 173.

Argued March 5, 1915.-Decided April 5, 1915.

The law of Michigan, as it was in 1903, did not give to unsecured
creditors of the mortgagor a lien upon the property covered by an
unrecorded chattel mortgage, but merely a right to a lien requiring
a proceeding of some kind for its fastening; and the right to such a
lien was lost if the proceeding was not taken prior to the bankruptcy
of the mortgagor.
196 Fed. Rep. 29, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the rights of creditors of a
bankrupt as against those of the holder of an unrecorded
chattel mortgage under the laws of the State of Michigan,
are stated in the opinion.

Mr. BernardB. Selling for complainants and appellants.
Mr. Harrison Geer and Mr. Elmer R. Webster for defendants and appellees, submitted.
Memorandum opinion by MR.
by direction of the court.

JUSTICE

McREYNOLDS,

To secure his outstanding note for $2300, Coates, a
resident of Michigan and the present bankrupt, gave the
Pontiac Savings Bank a mortgage upon his stock of goods,
fixtures, etc., in May, 1902, which was not filed for record
until the following September. Between these dates he

DETROIT TRUST CO. v. PONTIAC BANK.
237 U. S.

187

Opinion of the Court.

incurred indebtedness exceeding $1400 to sundry dealers
for goods sold and delivered; and it is admitted that under
the laws of Michigan the mortgage was void as to them
although good as between the parties thereto. In January,
1903, Coates sold the chattels for cash, paid his note out
of the proceeds and procured a release of the lien upon
the records by the mortgagee who acted with knowledge
of the facts. Proceedings were instituted against him
shortly thereafter and he was duly adjudged a bankrupt.
Appellant here was appointed trustee and, replying upon
supposed rights of creditors, commenced this proceeding
in the District Court-September, 1903-to recover from
the Pontiac Savings Bank the amount of allowed claims
for debts contracted by the bankrupt while the mortgage
was off the records, although none of them had been reduced to judgment and no steps had been taken to fix a
lien upon the property or its proceeds. The bank set up
the absence of any lien and the validity of the mortgage
as between the parties thereto and maintained that the
trustee stood in the shoes of the bankrupt and could not
enforce the alleged rights of creditors. This defence was
sustained by the Circuit Court of Appeals (196 Fed. Rep.
29).
The cause has been pending a very long time and must
be decided under the provisions of the Bankrupt Act as
it existed in February, 1903,-before the material changes
created by amendments-and according to the laws of
-Michigan then in effect whose exact import is not entirely
clear. Being of opinion that the action of the court below
was correct, we will consider only the ground which it
assigned therefor.
Payment to the bank by the bankrupt is attacked as
invalid under ยง 9523, Michigan Compiled Laws of 1897,
which provides that every chattel mortgage "which shall
not be accompanied by an immediate delivery, and followed by an atUial and continued change of possession of

188

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

the -things mortgaged, shall be absolutely void as against
the creditors of the mortgagor" unless filed for record as
directed.
The Circuit Court of Appeals declared (p. 33): "It is
settled by the decisions of the Supreme Court of Michigan
that the words 'creditors of the mortgagor' mean subsequent creditors in good faith and without notice of the
mortgage, and that the statutory invalidity of an unfiled
chattel mortgage extends to all creditors who became such
after the giving and before the filing of the mortgage.
Recovery can be had here on but one of two theories:
First, that the bankruptcy act creates a lien in favor of
the creditors under which the rights given by the Michigan statute can be enforced; or, second, that the Michigan
statute creates such a lien. The bankruptcy act does not
operate as an attachment of the bankrupt's property, nor
itself create a lien in favor of creditors of the class before
us. York Mfg. Co. v. Cassell, 201 U. S. 344; Crucible Steel
Co. v. Holt, 174 Fed. Rep. 127; affirmed by the Supreme
Court April 1, 1912, 224 U. S.262. The controlling question, therefore, is whether the rights given by the Michigan statute to the class of creditors named amount to an
actually established lien, or, on the other hand, to a mere
right to create a lien. . . . Since the decision below,
the case of In re Huxoll, 193 Fed. Rep. 851, has been decided by this court. We there carefully reviewed and considered the Michigan decisions, and reached the conclusion that the Michigan statute does not of itself create a
lien upon the mortgaged property prior'to the lien of the
mortgage; but gives merely a right to a lien, requiring a
proceeding of some kind for its fastening. We there held
that the right to lien was lost if such proceeding was not
taken before bankruptcy."
Replying to the contention that axi assignee for the
benefit of creditors in Michigan may avoid unrecorded
chattel mortgages and that the rights of a trustee in bank-

RIVERSIDE MILLS v. MENEFEE.
237 U. S.

Syllabus.

ruptcy are not less, the Circuit Court of Appeals further
said: "As we pointed out in the Huxoll Case, the Michigan
decisions mean no more than that the assignee is by the
assignment given a lien upon the property which did
not before exist. The mere fact that a lien is created under
statutory assignment for the benefit of creditors does not
give a lien under the Bankruptcy Act. This conclusion
directly follows from the decision in York Mfg. Co. v.
Cassell, supra."
We think the Circuit Court of Appeals properly interpreted and applied the doctrine announced in York Mfg.
Co. v. Cassell, and are unable to see that it reached an
incorrect conclusion concerning the pertinent laws of
Michigan. Holt v. CrucibleSteel Co., 224 U. S. 262, 267.
The decree is
Affirmed.

RIVERSIDE AND DAN RIVER COTTON MILLS v.
MENEFEE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NORTH
CAROLINA.
No. 169.

Argued March 4,1915.-Decided April 12, 1915.

To condemn without a hearing is repugnant to the due process clause
of the Fourteenth Amendment.

Courts of one State cannot without violating the due process clause
extend their authority, beyond their jurisdiction so as to condemn
the resident of anQther State when neither his person nor his

property is within the jurisdiction of the former. Pennoyer v. Neff,
95 U. S. 714.
A corporation, no more than an individual, is subject to be condemned
without a hearing in violation of the due process clause; and the
mere fact that one who is a director, but who is not a resident agent,
of a foreign corporation resides within a State does not give the courts

