OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

237 U. S.

of opinion that if they were before the Supreme Court it
sanctioned a situation upon which the Courts of the United
States should act, and if for any reason they were not
before the Supreme Court, it is our duty to act upon them
now and to declare lynch law as little valid when practiced by a regularly drawn jury as when administered by
one elected by a mob intent on death.

STEWART MINING COMPANY v. ONTARIO MINING COMPANY.
ERROR TOA THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF .IDAHO.
I

No. 205.

Argued March 17, 18, 1915.-Decided April 26, 1915.

The locator of "a mining claim has the right under § 2322, Rev. Stat.,
to the surface included within the line of his claim; and, if a vein has
its top or apex within the claim, he may follow such vein downward,
although it may depart from a perpendicular in its downward course,
outside of the vertical side lines of the location that is, into adjoining
grounds within the limited lines expressed in the statute.
The strike and the dip of a vein must not be confounded nor the rights
dependent upon them confused.
Where the state court does more than merely decide whether the apex
of a vein is or is not within the location, but also construes the statute
under which plaintiff in error asserts its right there is a question of
law as we[l'asof fact and this court has jurisdiction under § 237,
Judicial Code.
Extralateral rights to a vein under § 2322, Rev. Stat., depend upon the
position of Its top or apex.
Accepting the proper definition of apex of a vein as all that portion of
a terminal edge of a vein from which the vein has extension downward in the direction of the dip, it does not appear that the apex
of the vein involved in this action was within plaintiff's claim and
thereforeno extralateral rights exist under § 2322, Rev. Stat.
Quwere whether under § 2322 Rev. Stat. a vein can be pursued in the direction of its strike at an angle of less than 45 degrees to the course
thereof.
23 Idaho, 724, affirmed.

STEWART MINING CO. v. ONTARIO MINING CO. 351
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

THE facts, which involve the construction of Rev. Stat.,
§ 2322, and the right of the locator of a mining claim to
follow the vein downward, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Milton S. Gunn and Mr. Charles S. Thomas, with
whom Mr. Edgar T. Brackett, Mr. Nash Rockwood and
Mr. William E. Cullen, Jr., were on the brief, for plaintiff
inerror.
Mr. Myron A. Folsom and Mr. John P. Gray, with whom
Mr. James E. Gyde was on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the

court.
Contest between the mining companies (they were respectively plaintiff and defendants in the trial court and
we shall so designate them) as to certain ore bodies lying
beneath the surface of the mining claim of defendants,
called the Ontario. Plaintiff asserts ownership to the ore
bodies by reason of being owner in fee and in possession of
a quartz lode mining claim named the Senator Stewart
Fraction Lode Claim. It is alleged that within such claim
there "is a certain vein or lode bearing silver, lead and
other valuable minerals of which said vein or lode and the
ore and mineral therein contained this plaintiff is the owner
in possession and entitled to the possession. That the top
or apex of said vein or lode crosses the easterly end line of
said claim at approximately the center thereof between
corners Nos. 1 and 2 and extends within the boundaries of
said claim in a westerly direction, following the general
course of said claim, for a distance of seven hundred five
(705) feet, more or less. That said vein or lode has a downward course and descends into the earth southerly and
beyond the south boundary and side line of said claim into
and beneath the surface of the Ontario quartz lode mining
claim, designated as Survey No. 755."

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.

Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

Plaintiff prayed for an accounting and for an injunction against the further mining or extracting of the
ore.
Defendants' answer set up opposing contentions and
denied the rights alleged by plaintiff. In a cross-complaint
defendants asserted title and prayed that it be quieted
against the claim of plaintiffs. The judgment of the trial
court responded to this prayer. The judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State, 23 Idaho, 724.
This writ of error was then granted.
The case is not embarrassed by any dispute of facts of
the title to the respective claims, or of their boundaries or
of the mining of the ore by defendants. The controversy
turns entirely upon the construction of § 2322, Rev.
Stat., of the United States. It provides that locators of
mining locations "shall have the exclusive right of possession and enjoyment of all of the surface included within
the lines of their locations, and of all veins, lodes, and
ledges throughout their entire depth, the top or apex of
which lies inside of such surface-lines extended downward
vertically, although such veins, lodes or ledges may so far
depart from a perpendicular in their course downward as
to extend outside the vertical side-lines of such surface
locations. But their right of possession to such outside
parts of such veins or ledges shall be confined to such portions thereof as lie between vertical planes drawn downward as above described, through the end-lines of their
locations, so continued in their own direction that such
planes will intersect such exterior parts of such veins or
ledges. And nothing in this section shall authorize the
locator or possessor of a vein or lode which extends in its
downward course beyond the vertical lines of his claim to
enter upon the surface of a claim owned or possessed by
another."
It will be observed, therefore, to summarize the rights
conferred by the section, that the locator of a mining claim

STEWART MINING CO.v. ONTARIO MINING CO. 353
237 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

has the right to the surface included within the lines of his
claim and if a vein has its top or apex within the claim he
may follow such vein downward, though it may depart
from a perpendicular in its downward course outside "of
the vertical side lines" of the location-that is, into adjoining grounds. The length of the side lines and the claim
they bound are limited by the end lines, or, as it is expressed in the statute, by vertical planes drawn downward
through the end lines. Iron Silver Mining Co. v. Cheesman,
116 U. S. 529; Iron Silver Mining Co. v. Elgin Mining Co.,
118 U. S.i96.
The statute would seem to call for no effort of construction, and the distinction which obtains in the parlance of
miners and in the cases, between the strike or course and
the dip of a vein, is compelled by the statute and marks
accurately the linear and extralateral rights of a location.
This certainly, as far as any language can do it, expresses
the distinction which must be observed, however various
may be the natural conditions. In other words, the strike
and the dip of a vein must not be confounded nor the
rights dependent upon them confused.
What, then, do they determine in the present case? The
plaintiff asserts, as we have seen, that the vein has its top
orapex within one of its claims (the Senator Stewart Fraction Lode) and asserts further that the vein extends downward beyond the side lines, within the limits of the end
lines extended vertically, to and beneath the claim of defendants, and includes the ore bodies mined by the latter.
These are the facts as found by the trial court:
"That no part of the apex of the said ore bodies lies
within the lines of the Senator Stewart Fraction lode mining claim.
"That the plaintiff is the owner, in the possession and
entitled to the possession of the Senator Stewart Fraction
lode mining claim described in the complaint, with the
exception of that part thereof in conflict with the Quaker
VOL. ccxxxvii-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

lode mining claim, which conflict is not material to any
issue involved in this case.
"That within said Senator Stewart Fraction lode mining
claim there is a vein or lode of mineral-bearing rock in place
which on its onward course crosses the south side line of
said Senator Stewart Fraction lode mining claim, and has
a course about North 30' East, and the said vein on its
onward course does not reach any other line of said claim.
That the said vein is cut off on its onward course by a
large fault near the north line of said claim, called the
Osburn fault in this case. That the said vein on its downward course passes underneath the east line of said claim,
which is described in the patent as the end line of said
claim, which line connects Corners 1 and 2 of said claim.
That the fault which cuts off said vein on its northerly .end
has a northwestwardly and southeastwardly course and
dips southwestwardly. That the end of the vein against
said fault has a course North 410 West. That the end of
said vein against said fault has a steeply inclined down;ward course southeasterly.
"That the end of the vein as the same is terminated on
the onward course of the said vein against the fault hereinbefore referred to is the end of the vein on the line of its
dip, and the said vein is undercut by the said fault in such
manner that if the country below the fault was eroded, it
would present the appearance of an overhanging cliff.
"That the said fault which terminates the said vein
upon its onward course is a fault of great magnitude, and
for a short distance above the fault has disturbed and
broken and slightly deformed the vein, and enclosing rocks
in close proximately [proximity] to said fault in some places
for a greater distance from the fault than in others. That
the vein is also at various places cut by other faults which
tend in places to flatten the vein somewhat upon its downward course.
"That the said vein is continuous on its onward course

STEWART MINING CO. v. ONTARIO MINING CO. 355
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

from the line of contact with the said great fault in this
case called the Osburn fault southerly to the. ore bodies
within the Ontario lode mining claim and has been followed upon the level in the drifts by the miners from the
said edge of the vein to the ore bodies in the Ontario mining claim.
"That the top or apex of said vein which on its onward
course crosses the south side line of said claim is practically
level."
The Supreme Court affirmed the findings and added
that the end of the vein against the Osborne fault was
"turned, curled, or cupped upward, caused by the distubance which created the fault and cut off the vein."
And also said: "It further appears that this vein is undercdit by the Osborne fault in such a manner that if the fault
were eroded. or washed away, it would leave the vein
standing out as an overhanging cliff." The following
diagram exhibits the relations of the claims, the location
of the vein and the Osborne fault:

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

The contention of plaintiff is that the vein A-B runs
along the Osborne fault on the dotted line b-c adid passes
across the end line 1-2 at right angles. It is further contended that the apex of the vein is along the line A-B to
the Osborne fault and continues with what is asserted to
be the edge of the vein along the dotted line b-c and thati
therefore, the claim is entitled to an extralateral right on
the vein measured between the vertical plane 1-2-3 and
a plane parallel to that plane drawn through the point
where the vein passes through the southerly side line of the
claim. These planes include the ore bodies in dispute.
Defendants oppose the contention and insist that the
vein terminates at the Osborne fault and that the edge of
the vein along the fault does not constitute the apex of
the vein of the ore bodies. The Supreme Court accepted
this view, as we have pointed out, and, in emphasis of it,
said: "We cannot understand how an overhanging end
edge of a vein, cut off as the evidence shows this has been,
can in any sense be called the top or apex of the vein."
On first impression it would seem that the state courts
rested their jhdgments solely on a question of fact; in other
words, decided that no part of the apex of the vein lay
within the lines of the plaintiff's claim. Or, to state the
finding differently, that what plaintiff asserts to be the
apex is the side edge of the vein on the line of its dip, the
vein crossing the south side line of the Senator Stewart
Fraction at about right angles. This finding is undoubtedly one of fact and defendants, asserting it to be such,
make a motion to dismiss the writ of error for want of jurisdiction in this court on the ground that such fact was
sufficient to uphold the judgment, and contend that it is
hence immaterial that the court discussed and decided
other questions Federal in their nature. For this cases
were cited, among others, Mammoth Mining Co. v. Grand
-CentralMining Co., 213 U. S. 72.
But this is an imperfect view of the decision of the Su-

STEWART MINING CO. v. ONTARIO MINING CO.
237 U. S.

357

Opinion of the Court.

preme Court. The court observed that the decisive assignment of error was lodged against the finding that the vein
had not its apex in the Senator Stewart Fraction claim,
and, after referring to the testimony of witnesses as to the
inclination and apparent strike of the vein at certain
points, said: "But, taken as a whole, the evidence supports the findings, and the controversy arising on this
appeal becomes a question as to the correct interpretation
and application of the rule of law that should apply to the
facts of the case. The whole question rests on the correct
application of the apex and extralateral rights provisions
of § 2322, U. S. Revised Statutes." The court further observed that it would attempt no new application of the
statute but would seek and apply the construction which
this court had made; and, after consideration of the decisions and an analyis of § 2322, and especially of the
words "downward course," said: "To pursue a vein in
the direction of its strike at an angle of less than 45 degrees to the course thereof would clearly not be following
the vein on its 'downward course' as authorized by the
statute."
It is manifest, therefore, that the court did more, than
decide the question of fact, and made its judgment to depend as well upon a question of law. The motion to dismiss, therefore, is denied.
The view expressed by the Supreme Court that the
angle of a vein of less than 45 degrees to its course would
not be downward "'as authorized by the statute"' is
especially attacked by plaintiff as the capital error of the
decision of the court.
We pretermit for the present a consideration of the
ruling and goback to ihe statute for the elements of decision. They are simple enough in expression, but the contests of interest and ingenuity, induced or justified by
physical conditions, have given rise to much litigation, and
quite a body of jurisprudence has been erected in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.'
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

exposition of the rights conferred by the statute. The
number and fullness of the cases spare us much discussion,
and we may rapidly indicate the elements which determine the decision of this case.
The statute gives a right of possession to the locator of a
vein, the apex of which lies within the lines of his location,
not exceeding in extent 1,500 feet in length by 600 feet in
width, § 2320, Rev. Stat. And a vein is a well-defined body
of mineral within enclosing rocks. It has an onward course
and a downward course, and at what angle to the former
the latter may be followed in the exercise of the extralateral
right has been made a question in this case and argued at
much length by plaintiff. The Supreme Court of the
State decided, as we have seen, that the vein could not be
pursued downward at an angle of less than 45 degrees to
its course. We, however, are not required to pass upon
the question.
The~findings of fact afford a simpler ground of decision.
The primary condition which plaintiff, to justify a claim
to the ore bodies in controversy, had to establish was that
the apex of the vein was within the Senator Stewart
Fraction claim; but the fact was fohnd the other way.
The findings are graphically represented by the diagram
which we have given. It will be observed from it, and to
quote the findings, that the vein on its onward course
(strike) crosses the south line of the Senator Stewart Fraction claim and continues northeasterly (N. 30' E.) to the
Osborne fault. It reaches no other line of the claim, being
cut off by that fault. The vein on its "downward course"
(dip) passes underneath the east end line (so described in
the patent) of the claim. And both the trial court and the
Supreme Court found that the termination of the vein at
the Osborne fault is not the top or apex of the vein. In
other words, what plaintiff claims to be the apex of the
vein is its side edge on the line of the dip.
From this it follows that no extralateral rights can be

STEWART MINING CO. v. ONTARIO MINING CO. 359
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

predicated upon it, and we may put to one side the view
expressed by the Supreme Court that a vein cannot be
pursued along its strike at an angle of less than 450 And
the conclusion of the court that the top or apex of the vein
was not within the Senator Stewart Fraction claim has the
concurrence of the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals of the Ninth Circuit in Stewart Mining Company v.
Bourne, 218 Fed. Rep. 327, where the same ore bodies
were in controversy upon rights asserted to appertain to
that claim. That cage was submitted on the evidence in
this, supplemented by an agreement as to certain facts.
The court, by Circuit Judge Ross, remarked that a diagram introduced in evidence (substantially like that given
above) and a certain model (not exhibited here, counsel
explaining that it had been broken), the correctness of
which was practically conceded, demonstrated the situation of the vein by actual development and made it "plain
that this vein was not turned or bent at the point of its
contact with the Osborne fault, and did not and does not
extend from that point along that fault, but, on the contrary, came to an abrupt end there. True, further to the
northeasterly and at much greater depth the ore is shown
by the model to have extended to the Osborne fault, and
from that point to have followed the fault northeasterly to
and out of the easterly end line of the claim [the dotted
line b and c of the diagram]. But we think it is manifest
that such portion of the ore body cannot in any proper
sense be regarded as any part of the apex of the vein."
The court also referred to the allegation of the plaintiff
in that case, which is identical with the allegation in the
present case, that the vein was in Senator Stewart Fraction claim and that its apex crossed the easterly end line
of the claim at approximately the center thereof, and said:
"The evidence showing, as has been above pointed out,
that there is no such apex, the suit of the plaintiff must
necessarily fail."

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

A like declaration may be made in the case at bar. The
fact is fundamental. It is rudimentary that extralateral
rights to a vein depend upon the position of its top or apex.
But principles of law are asserted by plaintiff which, it
is insisted, determine against the conclusion of both courts.
It is difficult to state or estimate the principles singly. An
apex is, on cited authority, defined to be "all that portion
of the terminal edge of a vein from which the vein has extension downward in the direction of the dip." And it is
further said that the definition has been approved in
Lindley on Mines, because as therein expressed it "involves the elements of terminal edge, and downward course
therefrom." We may accept the definition. In its application, however, it immediately encounters a question of
fact-the locality of the terminal edge; and in this case the
state courts did not find it to be where plaintiff asserted
it to be.
But counsel make much of-indeed, appear to give absolute effect to-the other element of the definition, that
is, "extension downward" or "downward course" from
the terminal edge. 'But this element again has no significance whatever independently of the "terminal edge" of
the vein, found, as we have said, not to be where plaintiff
contended it to be. Plaintiff's contention is that the
terminal edge extends 200 feet along the Osborne fault and
from thence there is a pronounced downward course to the
southerly boundary of the Stewart Fraction claim, and
that therefore the two elements essential to an apex in
the accepted definition exist, namely, "terminal edge and
downward course" within "vertical planes parallel with
the vertical planes of the end lines of the claim extended
downward." If it could be conceded that the apex of the
vein runs along the Osborne fault, the conclusion plaintiff
contends for might also be conceded, but the fact is found
the other way by the state courts in this case. The finding
is dominating, and on account of it the judgment must be

STEWART MINING CO. v. ONTARIO MINING CO. 361
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

sustained. It is immaterial what view the court had or
expressed of the angle the downward course of the dip
must be to the strike.
The next contention of plaintiff is that there is neither
allegation nor proof of the discovery vein in the Senator
Stewart Fraction claim but that a presumption arises
from the patent that a discovery was made and the claim
properly located with reference thereto. In other words,
that a discovery vein existed and that the claim was
located lengthwise with it, and that the first presumption
is conclusive, and the other also, in the absence of anything to the contrary appearing. And it would seem to
follow from the contention that the presumption includes
as well the position of the apex and other attributes necessary for the assertion of extralateral rights. It would,
indeed, be difficult to entertain such a presumption in view
of the conduct of the plaintiff, its pleadings and testimony
and the careful investigation and consideration which the
state courts gave to the case. We may omit, therefore, a
detailed consideration of plaintiff's contention. The rights
asserted in the pleadings and to which the testimony was
directed to sustain were based upon the possession of the
vein which we have described.. Stewart Mining Co. v.
Bourne, 218 Fed. Rep. 359.
Judgment affirmed.

