OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. CHICAGO, BURLINGTON AND
QUINCY RAILROAD COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 630.

Argued January 7, 8, 1915.-Decided May 10, 1915.

Railroad yards belonging to the same railroad but several miles apart,
such as those of the Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Railway at
Kansas City on opposite sides of the Missouri River, are not actually one yard, and trains moving between them are not engaged
merely in switching operations, but are engaged in transportation
within the purview of the air-brake provision of the Safety Appliance Act.
211 Fed. Rep. 127, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the construction and application of the Safety Appliance Acts, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Underwood for the
United States.
Mr. H. M. Langworthy, with whom Mr. William Warner,
Mr. 0. H. Dean, Mr. W. D. McLeod and Mr. 0. M.
Spencer were on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the court.
This was an action for penalties under the law of Congress relating to safety appliances. Four violations were
charged. One consisted in using a car with a defective
coupler and the others in running certain transfer trains
without having the requisite percentage of air brakes so
cormected that they could be operated by the engineer.

UNITED STATES v. CHI., BURL. &Q.R. R. 411
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The first is no longer in controversy. As to the others the
controverted question at the trial was not whether the
air-brake requirement, if applicable, was violated, but
whether it applied to such trains. The District Court,
deeming the requirement applicable, directed a verdict
and entered a judgment for the Government, and the
Circuit Court of Appeals, being of a different opinion,
reversed the judgment, one judge dissenting. 211 Fed.
Rep. 12. A writ of certiorari granted under ยง 262 of the
Judicial Code brings the case here.
The facts disclosed by the evidence are these: The defendant operates a railroad which passes through Kansas
City, Missouri, and is used largely in interstate commerce.
Among its terminal facilities at that point are two freight
yards known as the Twelfth Street yard and the Murray
yard. These yards are on opposite sides of the Missouri
River, the distance between their nearest points being
about two miles. The track connecting them is one by
which passenger and freight trains enter and leave the
city, in other words, a main-line track. For a distance of
3,000 feet it is upon a single track bridge spanning the
river, and off the bridge it intersects at grade twelve or
fifteen tracks of other companies and passes through
the Union Depot tracks. Besides its use by the defendant's trains, a considerable portion of it is also the line
by which the passenger trains and some of the freight
trains of the Rock Island and Wabash railroads enter
and leave the city.
Both yards are used for receiving and breaking up incoming trains, assembling and starting outgoing trains,
and assorting, storing and distributing cars. To reach
their ultimate destinations, whether on the defendant's
road or on those of other carriers, a large proportion of
the cars have to be moved from one yard to the other,
and this is accomplished by transfer trains which are run
over the main-line track connecting the yards. These

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

trains usually consist of an engine and about thirty-five
cars, are operated by what are termed yard or switching
crews, and carry no caboose or markers. They have no
fixed schedules and are not controlled by a train dispatcher but by block signals, as are all other trains moving
over the same track. Each train is moved as a unit from
one yard to the other and not infrequently is both preceded and followed by other trains, passenger and freight.
The three trains, the running of which is charged to
have been violative of the statute, were transfer trains
of the class just described. They were run from one yard
to the other on August 9, 1910, and were composed respectively of 42, 36 and 39 cars, of which only 9 in one
train and 10 in each of the others had their air brakes
connected for use by the engineer. At that time air brakes
were required to be used on 75 per cent. of the cars in a
train. 11 I. C. C. 429, 437.
Giving effect to the views quite recently expressed in
United Statesv. Erie Railroad Company, ante, p. 402, we
think these trains came within the air-brake requirement,
which the amendatoryact of 1903 declares "shall be held
to apply to all trains . . . on any railroad engaged
in interstate commerce." According to the fair acceptation of the term they were trains in the sense of the statute. The work in which they were engaged was not
shifting cars about in a yard or on isolated tracks devoted to switching operations, but moving traffic over a
considerable stretch of main-line track-one that was a
busy thoroughfare for interstate passengers and freight
traffic. Every condition suggested by the letter and spirit
of the air-brake provision was present. And not only
were these trains exposed to the hazards which that provision was intended to avoid or minimize, but unless their
engineers were able readily and quickly to check or control their movements they were a serious menace to the
safety of other trains which the statute was equally de-

COE v. ARMOUR FERTILIZER WORKS.
237 U. S.

Syllabus.

signed to protect. That they carried no caboose or markers is not material. If it were, all freight trains could
easily be put beyond the reach of the statute and its
remedial purpose defeated. Neither is it material that
the men in charge were designated as yard or switching
crews, for the controlling test of the statute's application
lies in the essential nature of the work done rather than
in the names applied tc those engaged in it.

The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals must
therefore be reversed and that of the District Court affinned.
It is so ordered.

MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

COE v. ARMOUR FERIILIZER WORKS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF FLORIDA.
No. 140.

Submitted January 20, 1915.-Decided May 3, 1915.

Where the case was tried twice below and twice went to the highest
court of the State and the Federal question was decided adversely
to plaintiff in error on the first appeal, he is not concluded thereby
because he failed to then take a writ of error if it appears that the
first judgment of the higher court did not finally dispose of the
case but required further proceedings in the court below.
Not until the judgment of the court of last resort is final will a writ of
error lie to this court under ยง 237 Judicial Code.
The contention that under the local practice on a second writ of error
to the Supreme Court of the State a Federal question that was passed
on at the first hearing is not open, cannot be sustained in this court
if as a matter of fact the state court did pass on the question on the
second hearing and decide it adversely to plaintiff in error.

