CUMBERLAND GLASS CO. v. DE WITT.
237 U. S.

Syllabus.

MR. JUSTICE DAY, while not differing from the general
views taken by the court, is of opinion that the nature of
the inquiry under § 15 made it proper that all the questions should be answered.
.MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in
the consideration or decision of this case.

CUMBERLAND GLASS MANUFACTURING COMPANY v. DE WITT AND COMPANY.
ERROR TO COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF MARYLAND.
No. 191.

Argued March 10, 1915.-Decided May 10, 1915.

A plea of former judgment in a Federal court adjudicating a right of
Federal origin, asserts a right which if denied makes the case reviewable here under § 237, Judicial Code. DepositBank v. Frankfort,
191 U. S. 499.
The effect of a composition proceeding as provided in the Bankruptcy
Act is to substitute that proceeding for the bankruptcy proceeding
and in a measure to supersede the latter, and, when the composition is.
confirmed, to reinvest the bankrupt with all his property free from
claims of his creditors.
Composition proceedings arise from the bankruptcy proceedings and
this part of the statute is to be construed with the entire act.
Wilmot v. Mudge, 103 U. S. 217.
The restoration of his estate to the bankrupt after a composition
restores to him the right of action upon choses in action. Cf. Slone
v. Jenkins, 176 Massachusetts, 544.
The object of the set-off provision in § 68-a of the Bankruptcy.Act is
to permit the statement of accounts between the bankrupt and his
creditor with a view to the application of the doctrine of set-off between mutual debts and credits; it is permissive rather than mandatory, does not enlarge the doctrine of set-off and cannot be invoked
where the general principles of set-off would not justify it.
The set-off provision in § 68-a of the Bankruptcy Act is not self-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. 8.

executing and its benefit is to be had only upon the action of the District Court when it is properly invoked.
After composition had been affirmed by the Bankruptcy Court against
the opposition of a creditor, a claim against whom by the bankrupt
had been scheduled as an asset, the creditor, without applying to the
District Court to set off the mutual claims, accepted the composition
dividend, after which the bankrupt sued on the scheduled claim.
Held that:
The effect of the composition was to reinvest the bankrupt with
all of his assets including the right to maintain a suit on the
choses of actions including this claim against this creditor.
There was no automatic set-off under § 68-a of the Bankruptcy Act.
The effect of the composition was not to extinguish the claim of the
bankrupt against the creditor on his claim against the latter and
there was no adjudication that could be pleaded as res judicata
in a Federal court, and the state court did not err in respect to
any Federal question in rejecting the plea of res judicata.
120 Maryland, 381, affirmed
THE facts, which involve the construction and application of certain provisions of the Bankruptcy Act in regard
to appeals of mutual claims of the bankrupt and the
creditors, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Henry H. Dinneen and Mr. Arthur L. Jackson for
plaintiff in error.
Mr. Thomas G. Hayes and Mr. Lewis W. Lake for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

Defendant in error, Charles De Witt, trading as Charles
De Witt & Company, plaintiff in the court below and
hereinafter spoken of as the plaintiff, brought his action
in the Superior Court of Baltimore City, Maryland, to
recover of the Cumberland Glass Manufacturing Company, hereinafter called the Glass Company, upon the
ground that De Witt, having entered into a written
contract with the Mallard Distilig Company of New

CUMBERLAND GLASS CO. u. DE WITT.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

York to supply them with certain lettered flasks, the
Glass Company, with knowledge of that contract, by
and through the medium of their agents, did visit the
Mallard Distilling Company, and maliciously and without just cause, with the intent to injure the plaintiff and
to derive a benefit for itself, did cause, induce, and procure the said Mallard Distilling Company to rescind,
break and violate its contract with the plaintiff. Pleas
were interposed, and a trial was had in the Superior
Court, resulting in a verdict and judgment in favor of
the plaintiff, which judgment was affirmed in the Court
of Appeals of the State of Maryland (120 Maryland, 381),
and the case was brought here.
Summing up the defenses made in the state court,
the Maryland Court of Appeals said (120 Maryland,
386) "The defendant interposed three pleas-first that
it did not commit the wrong alleged; secondly, limitations; thirdly res judicata, based upon certain proceedings
had in the United States District Court for Maryland,
and particularly set out in the pleas."
The Federal question, which is the basis of jurisdictioh
here, arises upon the plea of res judicata to which a demurrer was sustained in the Maryland court of original
jurisdiction which judgment was affirmed by the Court
of Appeals. This presents a Federal question because
the plea of former judgment in a Federal court adjudicating a right of Federal origin, asserts a right which if
denied made the case reviewable here under § 709, Revised
Statutes, § 237, Judicial Code. Deposit Bank v. Frankfort,
191 U. S; 499.
From this plea, it appears that the plaintiff, trading
as Charles De Witt and Company, was adjudicated a
bankrupt in the United States.District Court of Maryland, on the eighth day of February, 1910; that in the
list of creditors, plaintiff listed the Glass Company as a
creditor in the sum of $790.03 (which claim was upon a
VOL. ccxxxvii-29

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

promissory note); that proof was duly made of this claim
against the plaintiff, in the bankruptcy *proceeding; and
that among the unliquidated assets reported to the
bankruptcy court by the plaintiff was a chose in action
against the Glass Company, listed as a claim of De
Witt's against the defendant, of unliquidated damages
for commissions and breach of contract, in the sum of $940.
(The testimony showed that this was the same claim
sued upon in the Maryland state court so far as the demand for $800 damages is concerned.) The plea shows
that afterwards, on the twenty-sixth day of March,
1910, the plaintiff filed a petition in the United States
District Court, setting out that he had 6ubmitted a composition'to his creditors whereby they were to accept
twenty cents on each dollar of their respective claims
in full settlement of their demands against him and his
bankrupt estate; further, that a majority in amount of
said creditors had agreed to accept the terms of the
composition agreement, wherefore he prayed that the
same be ratified by the court; that the Glass Company
did not agree in writing, pursuant to the provisions
of the Bankruptcy Act, or otherwise, to accept said settlement, but as a majority in amount of said creditors did
accept the same, it was ratified by the Federal court, and
there was allowed to the defendant the sum of $158.01,
as a dividend on its claim of $790.03; that no debit was
made against the Glass Company by reason of the alleged
claim of De Witt against it for the sum of $940.
Further, "that under and by virtue of the provisions
of § 68-a of said Federal Bankruptcy Act it was and
became the duty of the referee in bankruptcy and the
trustee in bankruptcy representing the bankrupt estate
of said De Witt to investigate and determine the existence
and validity of any claim asserted by said bankrupt
against any creditor filing his claim against said estate;
and thereupon to set off the claim of such bankrupt

CUMBERLAND GLASS CO. v.
237 U. S.

DE

WITT.

Opinion of the Court.

against his said creditor against the claim of said creditor
against the bankrupt, and pay, or demand the payment
to the bankrupt estate the difference between the accounts thus stated; that as the said referee, trustee and
bankrupt De Witt, the latter the plaintiff herein, did
not assert or claim, in said composition account, that
any portion of the aforesaid sum of $940 was justly due
and owing by this defendant to the then bankrupt estate
of the said plaintiff, as claimed by said De Witt in his
schedule of assets; that this defendant, being led to believe by the action of the said referee, trustee and bankrupt in remaining silent and ignoring said bankrupt's
alleged claim against this defendant when it was their
duty to have spoken and set out the same, if it was found
by them or any of them to be due, against said defendant
in said composition agreement, did not exercise its right
to except to the ratification of said composition account,
but suffered said composition account to be finally ratified and confirmed, and unwillingly accepted the settlement of twenty cents on the dollar made according to the
tenor of said composition agreement; that this defendant
received and accepted its dividend of twenty per cent.
therefrom in satisfaction of all its claims against said
De Witt and in exoneration by said De Witt from any
and all claims which said De Witt at that time had or
claimed to have, and this defendant says that the payment
to it by said bankrupt of said dividend and its acceptance
by this defendant operated as a final settlement and
adjustment, in a court of competent jurisdiction, of any
and all claims which the parties to this suit then had, or
claimed to have, against each other. Wherefore, this
defendant says that the alleged cause of action set out
in the plaintiff's amended narr. is res judicata."
As it was the effect of the judgment of the state court
to deny this plea of res judicata, it will be necessary to
consider somewhat the nature Of the proceeding.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

Compositions in bankruptcy are provided for by the
Bankruptcy Act of 1898, c. 541, 30 Stat. 544. By § 12 of the
Act, the bankrupt is permitted to offer a composition after
he' has been examined in open court or at a meeting of his
creditors, and after he has filed in court a schedule of his
property and a list of his creditors. Since the Amendment
of "1910 the offer may be made either before or after adjudication. In order that the composition be effectual, it must
be accepted in writing by a majority in number of all the
creditors, and the consideration to be paid by the bankrupt
to his creditors and the money necessary to pay debts having priority and the cost of proceeding must be deposited in
a place to be designated by, or subject to the order of, the
judge. The judge shall confirm the composition if satisfied
that it is for the best interests of the creditors, that the
bankrupt has not been guilty of any of the acts nor failed to
perform any of the duties which would be a bar to his discharge, and that the offer and acceptance are in good faith
and have not been made or procured by the means prohibited in the Act. Upon confirmation of the composition, the consideration is distributed as the judge shall direct, and the case dismissed. Whenever the composition
is not confirmed, the estate shall be administered as otherwise provided in the Bankruptcy Act.
Under § 70-f of the Act, it is provided that, -upon the
confirmation of a composition offered by a bankrupt, the
title to his property shall thereupon revest in him. By
§ 21-g of the Act it is also provided that a certified copy of
the order of confirmation shall constitute evidence of the
revesting of the title, and when recorded, shall impart the
same notice that a deed from the trustee to the bankrupt
if recorded would impart. The order of confirmation becomes in effect a discharge, and is pleaded in bar with like
effect. It operates to discharge the bankrupt from all
debts, other than those agreed to be paid by the terms of
the composition and those not affected by a discharge.

CUMBERLAND GLASS CO. v. DE WITT.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

It is thus apparent that, although the composition is provided for by the Bankruptcy Act, it is in some respects outside of the Act, for it is provided that, if the composition
is not confirmed, the estate shall be administered in bankruptcy, as in the Act provided.
The nature of composition proceedings is nowhere
better stated than by Judge Lowell in In re Lane, 125 Fed.
Rep. 772, 773, in which it is said:
"The case of composition is in some respects exceptional.
It is a proceeding voluntary on both sides, by which the
debtor of his own motion offers to pay his creditors a
certain percentage of their claims in exchange for a release from his liabilities. The amount offered may be
less or more than would be realized through distribution
in bankruptcy by the trustee. The creditors may accept this offer or they may refuse it. For the purposes
of the composition all the creditors are treated as a class,
and the will of the majority is enforced upon the minority,
provided the decision of the majority is approved by the
court. Except for this coercion of the minority, the
intervention of the court of bankruptcy would hardly
be necessary. Section 12-e (30 Stat. 550 [U. S. Comp. St.
1901, p. 3427]) provides: 'Upon the confirmation of a
composition, the consideration shall be distributed as the
judge shall direct, and the case dismissed. Whenever
a composition is not confirmed, the estate shall be administered in bankruptcy as herein provided.' Composition is thus treated, even in the act, as in some respects
outside of bankruptcy. In the ordinary case of distribution by a trustee, the debtor's whole property, save that
which is exempt, is applicable to the payment of his debts
and belongs to his creditors, and not to him, until their
claims have been satisfied. After adjudication there is
no voluntary offer to pay by the bankrupt, and no bargained release by the creditor. The creditor takes all
his debtor's property whether the debtor likes it or

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

not. . . . The bankrupt's rights of property arise
only in the event of a payment of his creditors in full.
If a creditor will not prove his claim, the bankrupt does
not take that creditor's share, but it goes to swell the
dividends of creditors more diligent. Section 66 of the
act (30 Stat. 564 [U. S. Comp. St. 1901, p. 3448]) has the
same purpose, and does not apply to composition. But
if the composition is paid the creditors have no further
claim upon the debtor or his property. In a composition
the creditor gets, not his share of the bankrupt's estate,
but what he bargained for, and he has no right to claim
more."
The effect of the composition proceeding is to substitute composition for bankruptcy proceedings in a certain
sense, and in a measure to supersede the latter proceeding, and to reinvest the bankrupt with all his property
free from the claims of his creditors. True the composition proceedings arise from the bankruptcy proceedings,
and this part of the statute is to be construed with the
entire act. Wilmot v. Mudge, 103 U. S. 217. That the
restoration of the estate to the bankrupt restores to him
his right of action upon choses in action there is no question. Stone v. Jenkins, 176 Massachusetts, 544.
With this general view of the nature and effect of
composition proceedings, we come to a consideration of
§ 68-a of the Bankruptcy Act, under which it is claimed
the set-off was adjudicated in the bankruptcy court by
reason of the proceedings we have already set forth.
Section 68-a of the Bankruptcy Act of 1898 provides that
"in all cases of mutual debts or mutual credits between
the estate of a bankrupt and a creditor the account shall
be stated and one debt shall be set off against the other,
and the balance only shall be allowed or paid." The
object of this provision is to permit, as its terms declare,
the statement of the account between the bankrupt
and the creditor, with a view to the application of the

CUMBERLAND GLASS CO. v. DEWITT.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

doctrine of set-off between mutual debts and credits.
The provision is permissive rather than mandatory, and
does not enlarge the doctrine of set-off, and cannot be
invoked in cases where the general principles of set-off
would not justify it. Black on Bankruptcy, § 544; In re
Kyte, 182 Fed. Rep. 166. The matter is placed within
the control of the bankruptcy court, which exercises its
discretion in these cases upon the general principles of
equity. Hitchcock v. Rollo, Fed. Cas. 6,535. The section
was taken almost literally from § 20 of the act of 1867.
In Sawyer v. Hoag, 17 Wall. 610, in considering that section of the act of 1867, this court said: "This section
was not intended to enlarge the doctrine of set-off, or to
enable a party to make a set-off in cases where the principles of legal or equitable set-off did not previously authorize it." While the operation of this privilege of set-off
has the effect to pay one creditor more than another, it
is a provision based upon the generally recognized right
of mutual debtors, which has been enacted as part of
the Bankruptcy Act, and when relied upon should be
enforced by the court. Bank v. Massey, 192 U. S. 138.
It hence appears that the object of this section was
to give the District Court the right to apply the established principles of set-off to- mutual credits, when its
action was invoked for that purpose.
The language of the act indicates the necessity of action
by the court, for the statute provides that "the account
shall be stated" and the one debt set off against the other
and the balance only allowed to be paid. This statute
recognizes the nature of set-off, as established in common
law and equitable procedure.
"By the civil law, when there are cross-claims between
a plaintiff and defendant which are so connected with
each other that the establishment of one can legitimately
defeat, reduce, or modify the other, the defendant is
always entitled to insist that his own claim shall be liti-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 1U. S.

gated with that of the plaintiff; that both shall be disposed of by one sentence; and that the plaintiff's recovery
shall be limited to what he shall be entitled to, if anything, as the result of adjusting both claims and striking
a balance, if necessary, between them; and he does this
by bringing a cross-action (reconventio). Mutual debts
do not, indeed, properly constitute cross-claims by the
civil law, for they extinguish each other ipso jure, and the
party alone in whose favor the balance is, has a claim
which can be enforced by action, and his claim is only
to the extent of such balance. Therefore a defendant who,
at common law, would have recourse to a statutory
set-off, would not, by the civil law, bring a cross-action,
but he would plead payment (compensatio). Nor is a*
defendant, who has a genuine cross-claim, bound to assert
it by a cross-action; he may assert it by a wholly separate and independent action. How, then, does a crossaction differ from one which is not a cross-action, and
which nevertheless is brought by a defendant against a
plaintiff? It is conceived that the essential difference
is in the judgment. If a defendant wishes to have his
own claim and the plaintiff's disposed of by one sentence,
in the manner before stated, he brings a cross-action.
If he wistes to have his own claim disposed of by a separate sentence, and without 4ny reference to the plaintiff's
claim, he brings a separate action. In the latter case
he may of course choose his own time for suing, and his
own court, and may prosecute his action slowly or speedily, as he sees fit, and without any reference to the plaintiff's action; but in the former case, as he wishes to have
his action and the plaintiff's disposed of together, he
must comply with the conditions necessary for that purpose." Langdell, Equity Pleading, § 118.
In the present ca ie, the Glass Company made no attempt to invoke the action of the District Court in the
bankruptcy proceedings. If it had the right to do so,

CUMBERLAND GLASS CO. v. DE WITT.
37 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

it did not seek the action of the bankruptcy court to
state the account or make the settlement, and we have
been unable to find any case, and none is called to our
attention, in-which it is held that simply because of the
bankruptcy proceedings and the filing of the schedule
and proofs of debt the set-off is automatically made between parties holding_ mutual credits. On the other
hand, as the section indicates, and so far as we know,
all the authorities hold, this section is not self-executing,
- but its benefit is to be had upon the action of the District
Coutt, only when it is properly invoked, and that court
has the primary duty of determining for itself whether
there are "mutual debts or credits" that should be set
off one against the other according to the true intent and
meaning of the Bankruptcy Act.
We have no means of knowing what the court woula
have held had it been asked to order a set-off of the bankrupt's claim for damages against the creditor's claim upon
a promissory note. (See Libby v. Hopkins, 104 U. S. 303;
In re Becker Bros., 139 Fed. Rep. 366; Palmer v. Day,
2 Q. B. 618; and the discussion of the subject in Morgan v.
Wordell, 178 Massachusetts, 350.) We need not, therefore, inquire .what that court would have done had its
action been properly invoked, nor whether the Glass
Company could have refused the amount of the composition and applied to the Distict Court for an order of
set-off, nor what would be the right of the Glass Company
had it refused to take the composition and undertaken
to set off its debt when sued in this case. Indeed, the
Glass Company in this suit denied and contested the
validity of the plaintiff's claim. Nor need we discuss
the right of the Glass Company to set off this claim had
it tried to do so in the state court.
The question arose in that way in Wasey v. Whitcomb,
167 Michigan, 58, in which a suit was brought by the
trustee in bankruptcy to recover upon a claim in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

state court. This was also the situation in Wagner v.
Burnham, 224 Pa. St. 586. In the English case of West
v. Baker, 1 Law Reports, Exch. Div. 44, the action
was brought by one in whom, under a composition proceeding the court had by order vested the estate, such
person having furnished the consideration to carry out
the composition, a proceeding authorized by § 81 of the
English Bankruptcy Act of 1869. It was held that in such
action the effect of the order was to vest the property of
the bankrupt in the plaintiff, subject to the right of setoff as to debts which would have been provable in bankruptcy. No such question arises here, as the plea in this
case set up former adjudication in the Federal court, and
no attempt was made to plead the right of set-off independently of such plea.
There is lacking in this case the first and most essential
element of res judicata; namely, former judgment of a
competent court, adjudicating the matter in controversy
between the parties, yet res judicata in the bankruptcy
court by the former proceedings was the sole contention
of Federal right her6 put in issue.
As already said, it appears in this plea, that the Glass
Company took the amount of the composition, twenty
per cent. of its full debt, after the composition had been
carried by the majority of the creditors, and approved by
the court. If, as is now contended, set-off had been automatically worked between these opposing claims, one
would substantially have satisfied the other, and the
Glass Company would be in no position to claim or receive
the dividend that it did receive in the composition. It
certainly cannot maintain these inconsistent positions.
This point was adjudicated under the former Bankruptcy
Act, which for this purpose is substantially the same as
the present one, in the case of Hunt v. Holmes, decided
in the District Court of Massachusetts, 16 N. B. Rep. 101;
S, C., Fed. Cas. 6890, in which the opinion was by Judge

CUMBERLAND GLASS CO. v. DE WITT.
237 U. S.

WHITE, Ch. J., HUGHES, LAAR, McRzyNOLDS, JJ., dissent'g.

Lowell, then District Judge. The learned judge ruled
that a creditor who took his composition dividend after
the composition was finally passed over his objections,
making no attempt to have mutual claims adjusted and
set off, thereby waived his claim of set-off; there being
no evidence that he received the amount under protest or
by mistake or under any other circumstance which would
entitle him to a re-hearing or readjustment. In In re
Ballance, 219 Fed. Rep. 537, where a creditor filed a petition to vacate a composition upon the ground of fraud, it
was held that the petitioner, after a demurrer to his petition had been overruled, could not take the amount of
the composition and also take the chance of proving the
allegations of his petition to set aside the composition for
fraud, but that he must make election as to which form
of relief he would accept, and that he could not take his
share of the composition as a partial payment and proceed
to recover upon the unpaid balance of his claim.
So, in this case, although the composition was carried,
as the plea avers, against the objection of the Glass Company, it made no attempt to have the set-off adjudicated
in the bankruptcy court, made no opposition to the confirmation of the composition as was its right if it saw fit
-to do, and took and holds its proportion of the composition
offered, in the same manner as other creditors.
As the only Federal question is presented because of the
alleged res judicata in the District Court, and for the
reasons stated that plea was not good, it follows that there
is no error of a Federal nature in the judgment of the
Court of Maryland, and the same is
Affirmed.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE,

with whom. concurred

MR. JUSTICE HUGHES, MR. JUSTICE LAMAR and MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS, dissenting.

I am unable to conclude that the plaintiff in error, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
WHiTE, Ch. J., HUGHES, LAMAR, MCREYNOLDS,

JJ., dissent'g. 237 V. S.

Glass Company, was not secured the right by the Bankrupt Law of the United States to set off a claim held by
it against the. claim which was sued on by De Witt, the
defendant in error, who was plaintiff below. These are
the undisputed facts: De Witt, a jobber in glass, thinking
that the Glass Company for the purpose of making the
profit itself, had wrongfully induced a person with whom
he had a contract for the sale of a lot of glass bottles not
to comply with the sale, thereby causing him a loss of a
profit of $800, determined not to pay the Glass Company
for merchandise which he had bought from it or to buy
from it merchandise and not pay for it in order thus to
be in a position to set off his claim in damages against the
purchase price and thereby make himself whole. De Witt
was declared an involuntary bankrupt. The Glass Company was stated in the schedules as a creditor on a note
for $790.03 which it is established was the purchase price
of merchandise bought from the company. There was
scheduled as an asset of the bankrupt estate an unliquidated claim against the Glass Company for damages,
commissions and bteach of contract stated as amounting
to $940. De Witt proposed a composition of twenty cents
on the dollar which was sanctioned by the requisite vote
of creditors, the Glass Company voting in the negative,
and the composition, after being approved by the court,
was carried out. In doing so De Witt without liquidating
the surrendered claim against the Glass Company for
damages or attempting to have it set off against the claim
of that company, paid the twenty.per cent. upon the face
value of the claim. Thereupon deeming that by the composition: he had been reinvested with full ownership of
the claim for damages, De Witt brought this suit against
the Glass Company to liquidate and enforce the same.
The suit originally included an alleged sum for commissions, etc., but the demand was reduced before judgment
to the asserted right to liquidate and recover the damages

CUMBERLAND GLASS CO. v. DE WITT.
237 U. S. WHmiE, Ch. J., HuGHEs,LAmAR,McRnYNOLDE, JJ., dissent'g.

alleged to have been occasioned by the cause previously
stated. And it is to the judgment of the court below
,allowing the amount of damages; claimed against the
company without any deduction whatever for the contract price of the goods admitted to be due in the bankruptcy proceedings that this writ of error is prosecuted.
I am admonished that it may be that my view .is obscured by what seems to me the wrongful result which
the judgment below accomplishes, that is, allowing De
Witt as a result of the bankruptcy to hold on to and
enforce as against the Glass Company his surrendered
claim for damages while at the same time treating the
bankruptcy as having relieved him of the duty of paying
for the goods bought; that is to say, not confining him to
doing that which he contemplated when he refused to pay
for the goods, to set off, his alleged claim for damages
against the price, -but permitting him to obtain the goods
of the company practically without paying for them and
at the same time to recover the full amount of his damage
claim.
The views which control my judgment in the case are covered by two general propositions which I state separately.
(a) Did the bankrupt law confer upon the Glass Company
the right to have the scheduled claim against it for damages
when liquidated st off against the debt which it proved for
the price of the goods by it sold? That the comprehensive
provisions of §§ 68a and b of the bankrupt law relating to
set-offs and counter claims are coincident with the scope
of the act and therefore give the power to the bankruptcy
court to determine whether or not the right of set-off
exists as between all and any claims required to be surrendered as assets of the estate on the one hand and all
debts proved against the estate on the other is, I submit,
self-evident, for to hold to the contrary would deprive the
bankruptcy court of authority *to exert its powers over
matters to which its jurisdiction in the nature of things

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
WmTr, Ch. J.,

HUGaES, LAMAR, MCRYNOLDS,

JJ., dissent'g. 237 U. S.

must extend. It is equally indisputable, as long since
settled by this court, that in exerting its powers when occasion requires it as between all or any of the items of the
active or passive side of the bankrupt estate it is the duty
of the court of bankruptcy not merely to determine the
right of set-off by strict common law principles, but to
govern the subject by the broad doctrines of set-off as
administered by courts of equity. Sawyer v. Hoag, 17
Wall. 610. It is also clear that in order to additionally
accomplish the public purposes just stated the bankrupt
act in some respects narrows the operation of set-off since
it prevents it from automatically operating by subjecting
it in every, case to judicial control. Under these principles there is no reason for doubting that the proved claim
of the Glass Company against the bankrupt estate was
subject under the law to be set off against the scheduled
claim held by the estate against .the Glass Company
whenever the latter claim was so liquidated as to enable
the set-off to be made and that the duty of accomplishing
this essential result by the terms of the statute primarily
rested
opon the bankruptcy court. I say the terms of
the statute since it in express words commands that the
set-off for which it provides shall be accomplished to the
end-that a distribution shall be made not upon the original
dlaims, but upon the balances resulting from carrying out
the commands of the statute as to set-off. This being
true, the question at once arises:
(b) Was the effect of the composition to prevent the set-pff
or to relieve the duty concerning it expressly commanded by
the statute?
The only theory upon which this question can be answered in the affirmative must be the conception that a
composition completely terminates bankruptcy and that
therefore whatever rights or duties arose from the bankrupt law which were not fully executed when the compositiori took place passed out of existence and therefore the

CUMBERLAND GLASS CO. v.. DE WITT.
237 U. S. WmTE, Ch. J., HuarmS,

LAmAR, McRErNoLDs,

JJ., dissent'g.

rights granted by the composition have no ancestral relation to the prior bankruptcy proceedings. But to say
this is to misconceive the nature of composition proceedings which, as this court has long since pointed out, are
but a part of bankruptcy and a means not for destroying
the express command of the bankrupt law, but for giving
effect to its provisions and rendering them more efficacious for accomplishing the just ends which they have in
view. Wilmot v. Mudge, 103 U. S. 217. This being true,
what is the situation? The bankrupt estate had d scheduled claim against the Glass Company which was unliquidated and the Glass Company had a proved claim
against, the estate which was liquidated. The bankrupt
proposed by composition to have the assets turned over
to him on paying a percentage on the claims due by the
estate. By the very terms of the bankrupt act the duty
was to set off the one against the other so that only the
balance between them would be due on the one side or
the other. But as the claim held by the estate was unliquidated and this could not be done without liquidation, it follows either that the acceptance of the composition and turning over the estate without liquidation was
an abandonment of the unliquidated claim or that it was
transferred to the bankrupt subject to the duty to set off
whenever as a result of a liquidation following the composition the condition arose which made it possible to
obey the express command of the statute. One or the
other of these conclusions, I submit, is absolutely required by the plain terms of the statute unless it is to be
recognized that the bankrupt law provides that a bankrupt may discharge himself by bankruptcy from all that
he owes one of his creditors and yet by operation of that
statute retain and after the bankruptcy enforce in his own
right all the claims he had against such creditor. But
the subject does not depend for its solution upon original
reasoning since it is well demonstrated by authority.

464
WnimE. Ch. J.,

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
HUGHES, LAMAR, MCREXNOLDS, JJ., dissent'g.

237 U. S.

Certain is it that the provisions as to composition which
were first enacted by Congress in 1874, (§17, ch. 390,
18 Stat. 178, 182) as an amendment to the existing bankruptcy act, were in substance taken from the English
bankrupt act of 1869. In re Scott, Fed. Cas. No. 12,519.
In West v. Baker, 1 Ex. D. 44, the facts were these:
West was adjudicated a bankrupt and a composition was
accepted by his creditors and the bankruptcy waoannulled.
Under a provision of the bankrupt act on the approval
of the composition the property was turned over to a
trustee, presumably for his security as he had advanced
the sum necessary to enable the bankrupt to pay to his
creditors the amount offered in composition. This trustee
then in the name of the bankrupt sued one Baker to recover an amount claimed to be due from Baker for work
and labor done for him by West before the bankruptcy.
By way of defense it was pleaded that before the adjudication ul bankruptcy West, was indebted to Baker for
debts and damages which were provable in bankruptcy
against the bankrupt estate and which could have been
set off in bankruptcy against the claim of West and
therefore the defendant, Baker, was entitled as a defense
to the suit to set off his claim against the one which the
trustee in the name of West sought in the suit to enforce.
A demurrer to the plea was overruled, the vitws of the
court being stated as follows:
"Kelly, C. B.

.

.

.

The whole estate of the bank-

rupt was undisposed of; and the Court has power under
the 81st section, in the case of an adjudication being annulled, to order that the property of the debtor shall vest
in such person as the Court may appoint, or, in defg.ult
of such appointment, revert to the bankrupt. This
latter has not been done; but the court has transferred the
whole estate of the bankrupt to the plaintiff, no doubt
in consideration of the plaintiff having guaranteed a
dividend of 7s. 6d. in the pound. Does this transfer

CUMBERLAND GLASS CO. v. Ds WITT.
237 U. S. WHITE, Ch. J., HUGHES,

LAMAR, McREYNOLDS,

465

JJ., dissent'g

entitle the plaintiff to recover debts freed from the right
of the debtor to set off such claims as the present? I
think not; because in bankruptcy the debtor could have
set off this very claim; and if the Court has transferred to
the plaintiff all the authority itself had, that was to sue
the defendant subject to the right to set off not only any
specific sum, but any claim to unliquidated damages
provable under bankruptcy. It this were otherwise, much
injustice would be done. I apprehend the subqtance of
the clauses of the Act is, that what passed to the plaintiff
was a right to receive debts, but Bubject to the right to
set off counter claims whether of specific sums or of unliquidated damages provable in bankruptcy.
"Cleasby, B. . . . The question is, whether the
effect of the 28th section was to alter the status of the
defendant because of the substitution of a scheme of settlement for the bankruptcy. On looking at the section the
effect appears to be that, instead of the trustee dealing
with the estate, the creditors shall be at liberty to accept
a composition. This, though accompanied by the annulling of the bankruptcy, does not take the matter out of the
Bankruptcy Court, so as to prevent the general rules
of bankruptcy applying, or alter the position of the pirties
except so far as it may be altered by the agreement they
have come to to take the composition instead of the estate.
By § 28 the provisions of a composition or general scheme
made in pursuance of the Act may be enforced by the
Court in a summary manner, and are to be binding on all
the creditors so far as relates to any debts due to them
and provable under the Bankruptcy Act. That clearly
shows that the Bankruptcy Court still retains the scheme
under its control, and therefore it is subject to the ordinary rules of that court as to set-off."
In Ex parte Howard National Bank, 2 Lowell, 487, S. C.,
Fed. Cas. No. 6764, without going into detail, the case
was this: There was a bankruptcy and a composition.
VOL. ccxxxvii-30

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
WHiTE,,Ch. J., HUGHES, LAMAR, McRYNOLDS, JJ., dissent'g. 237 U. S.

After the composition the bankrupt sought to enforce a
claim which had passed to him in virtue of the composition
and was confronted with an alleged right to set off as
against such claim on his part, a claim against him which
had been in the bankruptcy a claim against the estate:
The court under these conditions in upholding the right
to set-off directed attention to the provisions of the bankrupt law on the subject and to its command that only the
balance should be paid and the inherent relation which
that requirement of the act created between the claims
scheduled in the bankruptcy on the one hand and proved
on the other and the character which was affixed to them
for the purpose of set-off even after a composition had
been ordered. The court said:
"I have treated this as a case between an assignee and
a creditor, because the bankrupt in a composition case
stands, as to set-off, in the position of an assignee; if none
has been appointed." In other words, treating the allowance of the composition as having, so to speak, irrevocably stereotyped the rights of the parties in conformity
with the bankrupt law and to the end that its purposes
might be carried out, the bankrupt holding under the composition was treated for such purposes as but an assignee
in bankruptcy and therefore so far as set-off was concerned
as having no greater right under the composition than existed in the bankruptcy in favor of the estate at the time
the composition was made.
These cases as well as the principles upon which they
rest clearly make manifest the fact that it was not only
within the power but it was the duty of the court below
as an inevitable result of the liquidation of the claim
against the Glass Company which it made to treat the
set-off as accomplished since that result was necessary
to give vitality to the order of composition and to secure
the right of set-off which inhered in the nature of the title
given by the bankruptcy court to the bankrupt as the

CUMBERLAND GLASS CO. v. DE WITT.
237 U. S. WmErr, Ch. J., HUGHES,

LAMAR, McREYxOLDS,

JJ., dissent'g.

result of -the composition. From this conclusion it necessarily follows that the duty to enforce the set-off in-.
tegrally inhered in the order and judgment which sanctioned the composition since otherwise the order would
have embodied within itself a refusal to obey and give effect to the express command of the bankrupt law as to the
nature and character of what could be transferred under
the composition. And this consequence is obvious when
it is borne in mind that the result of the composition
was to recognize and fix the right of set-off although not
denying the power to liquidate as a means of carrying out
the established right of set-off. This being true, it is
also true that the moment the court below liquidated
the claim, in and by virtue of the order of composition the
duty arose to give effect to .the right of set-off established
by the order of composition in conformity with the express command of the bankrupt law. And this fully
answers the suggestion that as the right to the set-off was
not asserted eo nomine but the decree in composition was
pleaded as res judicata, therefore there was no denial
of the right of set-off even if secured as the result of the
composition. Certainly it must be that the plea of the
decree in composition as res judicatawas a plea advancing
the right which that decree necessarily secured.
This in my judgment leaves it necessary only to consider the assertion that even although the right was secured by the bankrupt law and even although that right
was preserved by the composition and inhered in the
very, nature of the title which the composition passed, it
nevertheless does not here exist because of what was
done at the time the composition was adopted. This
rests upon the theory that as the Glass Company took
the dividend upon its claim and did not insist upon a
liquidation of the claim in damages held by the bankrupt. estate, it therefore waived any right to future setoff concerning said claim. I must confess 1 find difficulty

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
WmTE,Ch. J., HUGHES, L.ML__v,

MC REYNOLDS, JJ., dissent'g. 237 U. S.

in precisely grasping the proposition. The Glass Company disputed the clain in damages and the duty of liqui-

dation was on the bankrupt or the bankrupt estate but not
on the'Glass Company, and if waiver or estoppel was the
result of what was done, the waiver was not as to the right
of the Glass Company, but as to the claim for damages
and against the estate, which held it. Indeed, the tender
to the Glass Company of the full percentage due on its
claim without liquidating the claim for damages against
it so as to accomplish a set-off, if waiver is to control,
was a waiver by the bankrupt of a right to liquidate and
assert his claim in the future. The proposition otherwise
stated is this: If the composition is to be considered as
having irrevocably excluded the right to set-off, then of
course the consequences of the failure to ask for it must
fall upon the one holding' the unliquidated claim and not
be cast upon the one who had no duty or concern with
that subject until the liquidation was accomplished, especially in view of the payment made of the percentage
upon the amount proved, a payment which was only
consistent with the theory that the unliquidated claim
was abandoned. If on the other hand it be consideed
in consonance with the principles and authorities to which
I have referred that the composition did not terminate
the bankruptcy but that a liquidation for the purpose of
set-off could thereafter be accomplished, then it clearly
follows that the effect of the bankruptcy and of. the
judgment of composition was to fix and secure that right
and it cannot be held consistently with the statute that
the composition proceedings taken conformably, with the
statute,'were a waiver of the right which those proceedings
inevitably secured and made effective.
For these reasons I dissent, and am authorized to say that
Mr. Justice Hughes, Mr. Justice Lamar, and Mr.

Justice McReynolds concur in this dissent.

