434

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

237 V. S.

ELLIS v. INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 712. Argued April 12, 15, 1915.-Decided May 10, 1915.
The definition of transportation in § I of the Act to Regulate Commerce includes the instrumentalities enumerated, but as a preliminary a requirement that the carriers shall furnish them upon reasonable request; the definition does not mean however that the owners
and builders of such instrumentalities shall, contrary to truth, be
regarded as carriers.
The control of the Interstate Commerce Commission over private cars
and such instrumentalities of commerce is effected by its control over
the carriers subject to the Act and not over the builders and owners
of such instrumentalities who are not subject to the Act.
An appeal lies to this court from a final order of the District Court
made upon petition of the Interstate Commerce Commission directing a withess to answer certain questions and produce certain documents. Interstate Commerce Commission v. Baird, 194 U. S. 25;
Alexander v. United States, 201 U. S. 117, distinguished.
The Interstate Commission may not in a mere fishing expedition interrogate a witness in regard to the affairs of a stranger on the chance
that something discreditable may be disclosed.
An intervening corporation may be a means by which an owner of
property transported incidentally renders services and if so its
charges therefor are subject to the supervision of the Commission
and, as unreasonable charges may be used as a device to obtain a
forbidden end, the Commission should be allowed a reasonable latitude in interrogating a witness in a properI proceeding to ascertain
if any such device is used. Int. Com. Comm. v. Brinson, 154 U. S.
447.
Every advantage which may enure to a shipper as the result of the position of his plant, his ownership or his wealth is not necessarily a
preference within the prohibitions of the Act to Regulate Commerce.
In this case held that until the corporation, not a carrier, furnishing instrumentalities to shippers was shown to be a mere tool of the latter
for obtaining preferences a witness need not answer question& conceming private business of the corporation, but also held that he

ELLIS v. INT. COM. COMM.
237 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

should answer questions in regard to the furnishing of instrument
alities so far as they affected matters which under § 15 of the' Act
to Regulate Commerce are subject to the Commission.
THE facts, which involve the construction and application of § 12 of the act to regulate commerce and the
power of the court to compel witnesses to answer questions propounded, and to produce documents demanded,
by the Interstate Commerce Commission, are stated in
the opinion.

Mr. Frank B. Kellogg, with whom Mr. C. A. Severance,
Mr. Robert E. Olds, Mr. Alfred R. Urionand Mr. CharlesJ.
Faulkner were on the brief, for appellant:
Armour Car Lines is not a common carrier, nor is it
engaged in transportation, within the meaning of the

act to regulate commerce.
The demands of the Commission involved an unwarranted extension of its inquisitorial powers and constitute
an unlawful invasion of the private rights and affairs
of the respondent and of the company he represents.
The demands involved in this proceeding do not fall
within the scope of the Commission's orders.
In support of appellant's contention, see Baird Case,
194 U. S. 25; Balt. & Ohio S. W. Ry. v. Voigt, 176
U. S. 498; Boyd v. United States, 116 S. W. Rep. 616;
Cattle Raisers' Assn. v. Fort Worth Ry., 7 I. C. C. 513;
Consolidated Forwarding Co. v. Southern Pac., 9 I. C. C.
182, 206; Cotting v. Kansas City Stockyards, 183 U. S. 95;
Employers' Liability Cases, 207 U. S. 463; Enterprise
Transp.o Co. v. Penna. R. R., 121 I. C. C. 236; Ex parte
Koehler, 36 Fed. Rep. 867; Gracie v. Palmer, 8 Wheat.
605; Harrimanv. Int. Com. Comm., 211 U. S. 407; Hirsch
v. New England Nay. Co., 113 N. Y. Supp. 395; Hopkins v. United States, 171 U. S. 578; Int. Com. Comm. v.
Brimson, 154 U. S.447, 448; Int. Com. Comm. v. Railway
Co., 167 U. S. 506; Int. Com. Comm. v. Reichmann, 145

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.

Argument for Appellant.

237 U. S.

Fed. Rep. 235; Kentucky Bridge Co. v. Louis. & Nash.
R. R., 37 Fed. Rep. 573; Kilbourn v. Thompson, 103
U. S. 168; Lemon v. Pullman Co., 52 Fed., Rep. 262;
Long v. Lehigh Valley R. R., 130 Fed. Rep. 870; Nor.
Pac. Ry. v. Adams, 192 U. S. 440; Omaha Street Ry. v.
Int. Com.,Comm., 230 .U. S. 324; Pacific Ry. Comm. Cage,
32 Fed. Rep. 241; Parmelee Transfer Co., 12 I. C. C. 40;
Parmelee v. Lowitz, 74 Illinois, 116; Parmelee v. McNulty,
19 Illinois, 556; Pullman Co. v. Linke, 203 Fed. Rep.
1017; State v. Union Stockyards Co., 115 N. W. Rep.
627, 631; Santa Fe v. Grant Bros., 228 U. S. 177; San
Diego v. National City, 174 U. S. 757; Smyth v. Ames,
169 U. S. 546; Southern Pacific Terminal Co. v. Int.
Com. Comm., 219 U. S. 498; Tap Line Cases, 234 U. S. 1;
Tex. Pac. Ry. v. Abilene Cotton Co., 204 U, S. 438; United
States v. Louis.. & Nash. R. R., 234 U. S. 314; United
States v. Mil. Refrigerator Transit Co,, 145 Fed. Rep. 1007;
United States v. Union Stockyards, 226 U. S. 286; Union
Stockyards v. United States, 169 Fed. Rep. 404.
Armour Car Lines is not a common carrier subject
to the act to regulate commerce.
The demands of the Commission amount to an unlawful
invasion of the private rights and affairs of the appellant
and of the company he represents.
The question is one of power, not of relevancy of evidence. The evidence demanded is not relevant to any legitimate inquiry the Commission may undertake. The
Act to Regulate Commerce nowhere provides that railroads shall only pay reasonable compensation for cars,
materials, labor, etc. The Government's suggestion of
possible rebates is not justified. Brimson Case, 154 U. S.
447; Gracie v. Palmer,8 Wheat. 605; HarrimanCase, 211
U. S. 407; Louis. & Nash. Case, 236 U. S. 318; Pacific
Railway Commission Case, 32 Fed. Rep. 241; Union Stockyards Co. v. United States, 169 Fed. Rep. 404; S. C., 226
U. S..286; 40 Cong. Rec., pt. 2,-pp. 1828, 1843-4, 1910, 1997,

ELLIS. v. INT. COM. COMM.
237 U.S.

Argument for Appellees.

2004; 40 Cong. Rec., pt. 3, pp. 2020-1; 40 Cong. Rec.,
pt. 7, p. 6438.
Mr. E. W. Hines, with whom Mr. Joseph W. Folk was
on the brief, for appellees:
The order of the District Court requiring Ellis to testify in the proceeding before the Commission is not
appealable. Brimson, Baird, and Harriman Cases distinguished. Final decrees only are appealable. An order
requiring the production of testimony is not a final decree. Alexander v. United States, 201 U. S. 117; Webster
Coal Co. v. Cassatt, 207 U. S. 181; Wise v. Mills, 220
U. S. 549; Haight v. Robinson, 203 U. S. 581; Hultberg v.
Anderson, 214 Fed. Rep. 349; Logan v. Penna. R. R., 19
Atl. Rep. 13. Greater rights should not be given a witness
to justify his contumacy when summoned before an examiner than when summoned before a court. Alexander
v. United States, 201 U. S. 117.
The orders of the Commission on which the investigation was based were sufficient to authorize the Commission to inquire whether or not Armour Car Lines was
being used as a device to procure favors for Armour & Co..
from the railroads.
The purpose of the hearing at which appellant refused
to testify, as indicated in the Commission's order providing therefor, was to determine whether or not the allowances paid by carriers for the use of private cars and
the practices governing the handling and icing of such
cars were unjust, unreasonable, unduly discriminatory,
or otherwise in violation of the act. The interest of
Armour & Co., and of other shippers, in the car lines
furnishing such facilities was of the essence of the inquiry.
Investigations on -the part of the Commission should
not be hampered by the technical rulesi of the common
law. Int. Com. Comm. v. Baird, 194 U. S. 25, 44. .s to

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Appellees.

237 U. S.

questions in issue Armour Car Lines was not taken by
surprise.
The investigation in which appellant was called as a
witness related to specific matters which might be made
the object of a formal complaint, and was therefore one
in which witnesses could be required to testify.
See §§ 1, 2, 12, 13,;and 15 of the Act to Regulate Commerce and §§ 1 and 2 of the Elkins Act.
The Elkins Act authorized inclusion as parties, "in
addition to the carrier, all persons interested in or affected
by the rate, regulation, or practice under consideration."
Armour Car Lines and Armour & Co.. were served with
copies of the Conunission's orders and were made formal
parties to the investigation in which appellant refused to
testify.
One purpose of the inquiry was to determine whether
or not the practices under investigation were resulting
in unlawful discrimination. Harrimanv. Int. Com. Comm.,
211 U. S. 407, distinguished.
The information which the witness was asked to give
was relevant to the inquiry which the Commission was
making.
The questions in issue were material as tending to show
the relation between Armour & Co., the shipper, and
Armour Car Lines, the corporation furnishing transportation and refrigeration facilities to common carriers; also
as tending to show a practice of rebating under the guise
of allowances from common carriers to Armour & Co.
through the instrumentality of Armour Car Lines.
Cotting v. Stock Yards Co., 183 U. S. 79, illustrative
rather than exclusive of this proposition.
If the questions had a legitimate bearing upon the
identity of Armour & Co. and Armour Car Lines, answers
thereto were properly to have been compelled. Int.
Com. Comm. v. Baird, 194 U. S. 25, 47; Nelson v. United
States, 201 U. S. 92.

ELLIS v. INT. COM. COMM.
237 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

It is not contended that a corporation selling supplies
to a railroad common carrier thereby subjects itself to
the jurisdiction of the Commission. The contention is
that a shipper mdy, through a corporation furnishing
transportation facilities to such a common carrier, obtain
rebates or concessions in the guise of allowances therefor,
and that the Commission has jurisdiction to investigate
the relations between, such shipper and the corporation
furnishing such facilities, in order to determine whether
or not the latter is being used as a device to conceal rebates.
The questions asked were material as tending to advise
the Commission as to the reasonableness of the allowances
paid by common carriers for the services rendered by
Armour Car Lines. It is the duty of the Commission to
abate discriminative practices, "whatever form they may
take and in whatsoever guise they may appear." Tap
Line Cases, 234 U. S. 1.
The power of the Commission to inquire into the allowances of a tap line is based not upon the fact that the tap
line is a common carrier, but upon the fact that it is
owned by a shipper. A shipper owning a tap line is subject to the jurisdiction of the Commission with respect to
the relations between the tap line, the shipper, and railroad common carriers. It is the duty of the Commission
to inquire fully into such relations in order to determine
whether or not the shipper by means of the tap line is
securing concessions from the published rates. Tap
Line Cases, 234 U. S. 1.
The Elkins Act was designed to place all shippers upon
equal terms. United States v. Union Stock Yards, 226 U. S.
286; Int. Com. Comm. v. Reichmann, 145 Fed. Rep. 235.
A witness, not a party to the proceeding, may not question on behalf of the corporation, a party thereto, the
materiality of evidence. Nelson v. United States, 201 U. S.
92.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Auoellees.

237 U. S.

The witnesses who may be compelled by the courts to
give testimony before the Commission and to produce
documents, books, and papers are not limited to officers
and agents of common carriers.
The Commission may require any person to testify
before it if the testimony required relates to a matter
under investigation, if such matter is one which the Commission is legally entitled to make, and if the witness is
not excused on, some personal ground from compliance
with the Commission's order to testify. Int. Com. Comm.
v. Brimson, 154 U. S. 447.
Congress, in excluding private car lines from the operation of the statute, was endeavoring to conserve the interests, not of private car lines, but of shippers. Clearly
it did not intend thereby to deny to the Commission the
power to require such corporations to disclose any information which might be necessary to enable the Commission to enforce the provisions of the act.
Jurisdiction over interstate transportation gives to the
Commission jurisdiction over any person furnishing any
part of that transportation, as to the transportation so
furnished, whether or not such person is a common carrier.
To require Armour Car Lines, or its officer, to state
what its books show, as to the result of its operations relating to its business of renting and leasing cars and furnishing refrigeration and icing service, would not, unnecessarily invade the privacy of that corporation.
Congress has the same authority to require Armour
Car Lines to furnish to the Commission any information
which may be necessary to enable it to determine whether
or not the act is being violated as it would have if that
corporation had been created by an act of Congress.
Halev. Henkel, 201 U. S. 43; Int. Corn. Commyv. Goodrich
Transit Co., 224 U. S. 194. United States v. Louis. & Nash.
R. R., 236 U. S. 318, distinguished.

ELLIS v. INT. COM. COMM.
237 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

The services furnished by car lines are furnished by
them either as agents for the carriers or as agents for the
shippers, and the Commission may investigate the charges
for and the practices relating to such services as if such
services were furnished directly 'by the carriers or the
shippers.
The act requires common carriers to furnish everything defined therein as transportation. A: shipper may
furnish on behalf of a carrier certain facilities required to
be furnished, receiving therefor a reasonable allowance.
Any person who performs such a service thereby subjects
himself to the jurisdiction of the Commission to the extent
necessary to enable the Commission to determine what
is a reasonable allowance for the service so rendered.
Armour Car Lines furnish a transportation service
which it is the duty of common carriers to provide, and
must be regarded as performing that-service on behalf of
such carriers within the purview of § 1 of the Elkins Act.
The jurisdiction of the Commission therefore, for the
purposes of' this case, extends to Armour Car Lines as
fully as if it were a common carrier subject to the act.
The questions propounded to, and which appellant
declined to answer and which he was required by the order
of the District Court to answer, were material to issues
cognizable by the Commission. Answers to such questions, if furnished, might have disclosed a violation of
the act to regulate commerce or of the Elkins Act. Appellant not being 'aparty to the proceeding before the Commission, could not properly refuse to answer on the ground
of personal privilege, nor could he pledd the privilege of
the corporation. Armour Car Lines, for the purposes of
this proceeding, was as clearly amenable to the inquisitorial jurisdictibn of the Commission as if it were a common carrie Subject to the act. A reVersal by this court
of the judgment of the District Court Would go far towards
defeating the purposes for which the Commission was

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.

Opinion of the Coirt.

237 U. S.

created. Wherefore it is respectfully submitted that the
order of the District Court requiring appellant to testify
and to produce the documents in issue should be sustained.
In support of these contentions see cases supra, and
also Brown v. Walker, 161 U. S. 591; CanadaSouthern Ry.
v. International Bridge Co., 8 App. Cases, 723; Consol.
Rendering Co. v. Vermont, 207 U. S. 541; Counselman v.
Hitchcock, 142 U. S. 547; Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheaton, 1;
Hammond Packing Co. v. Arkansas, 212 U. S. 322; New
York &c. R. M. Co. v. Int. Com. Comm., 26 Sup. Ct. 272;
Nor. Pac.Ry. v. North Dakota, 236 U. S. 585; United States
v. Milwaukee Refrigerator Co., 145 Fed. Rep. 1007.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Underwood for the
United States.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from an order of the District Court
made upon a petition of the appellee, the Interstate
Commerce Commission, filed under the act to regulate
commerce, § 12, c. 104, 24 Stat. 379, 383.. The order
directs the appellant to answer certain questions propounded and to produce certain documents called for by
the appellee. There is no doubt that this appeal lies.
The order is not like one made to a witness before an
examiner or on the stand in the course of a proceeding
inter alios in court. Alexander v. United Statqs, 201 U. S.
117. It is the end of a proceeding begun against the
witness. Interstate Commerce Commission v..Baird, 194
U. S. 25. Therefore, we pass at once to the statement
of the case.
Tha Interstate Commerce Commission, reciting that
it appeared from complaint on file that the allowances
paid for the use of private cars, the practices governing
the handling and icing of such cars, and the minimum
carload weights applicable to the commodities shipped

ELLIS v. INT. COM. COMM.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

therein, on the part of carriers subject to the act to regulate
commerce, violated that act in various ways, ordered
that a proceeding of investigation be instituted by the
Commission of its own motion to determine whether such
allowances, practices, or minimum carload weights were
in violation of the act as alleged, with a view to issuing such
orders as might be necessary to correct discriminations
and make applicable reasonable weights. It ordered
that carriers by railroad subject to the act be made parties respondent, and, later, that all persons and corporations owning or operating cars and other vehicles and
instrumentalities and facilities of shipment or carriage of
property in interstate commerce be made parties also.
In the proceedings thus ordered the questions propounded
were put to the appellant, the vice president and general
manager of the Armour Car Lines.
The Armour Car Lines is a New Jersey corporation
that owns, manufactures and maintains refrigerator, tank
and box cars, and that lets these cars to the railroad or
to shippers. It also owns and operates icing stations
on various lines of railway, and from these ices and reices the cars, when set by the railroads at the icing plant,
by filling the bunkers from the top, after which the railroads remove the cars. The railroads pay a certain rate
per ton, and charge the shipper according to tariffs on
file with the Commission. Finally it furnishes cars for the
shipment of perishable fruits, &c., and keeps them iced,
the railroads paying for the same. It has no control
over motive power or over the movement of the cars
that it furnishes as above, and in short, notwithstanding
some argument to the contrary, is not a common carrier
subject to the act. It is true that the definition of transportation in § 1 of the act includes such instrumentalities
as the Armour Car Lines lets to the railroads. But the
definition is a preliminary to a requirement that the
carriers shall furnish them upon reasonable request,

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

not that the owners and builders shall be regarded as
carriers, contrary to the truth. The control of the Commission over private cars, &c., is to be effected by its
control over the railroads that are subject to the act.
The railroads may be made answerable for what they
hire from the Armour Car Lines, if they would not be
otherwise, but that does not affect the nature of the
Armour Car Lines itself. The petition of the Interstate
Commerce Commission to compel an answer to its questions hardly goes on any such ground.'
The ground of the petition is that it became the duty
of the Commission to ascertain whether Armour & Company, an Illinois corporation shipping packing-house
products in commerce among the States, was controlling
Armour Car Lines and using it as a device to obtain concessions from the published rates of transportation, and
whether Armour Car Lines was receiving for its refrigerating services unreasonable compensation that enured to
the benefit of Armour & Co., all in violation of §§ 1, 2, 3,
and 15 of the act.
If the price paid to the Armour Car Lines was made
the cover for a rebate to Armour & Co., or if better cars
were given to Armour & Co. than to others, or if, in short,
the act was violated, the railroads are responsible on proof
of the fact. But the only relation that is subject to the
Commission is that between the railroads and the shippers.
It does not matter to the responsibility of the roads
whether they own or simply control the facilities, or
whether they pay a greater or less price to their lessor.
It was argued that the Commission might look into the
profits and losses of the Armour Car Lines (one of the
matters inquired about), in order to avoid fixing allowances to it at a confiscatory rate. But the Commission
fixes nothing as to the Armour Car Lines except under
§ 15 in the event of which we shall speak.
The appellant's refusal to answer the serie§ of questions

ELLIS v. INT. COM. COMM.
237 U. S.

Qpinion of the Court.

put was not based upon any objection to giving much of
the information sought, but on the ground that the counsel
who put them avowed that they were the beginning of an
attempt to go into the whole business of the Armour Car
Lines-a fishing expedition into the affairs of a stranger
for the chance that something discreditable might turn
up. This was beyond the powers of the Commission.
In re Pacific Railway Commission, 32 Fed. Rep. 241.
Interstate Commerce Commission v. Brimson, 154 U. S.
447, 478, 479. Harriman v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 211 U. S. 407. The Armour Car Lines not being
subject to regulation by the Commission its position was
simply that of a witness interested in but a stranger to
the inquiry, and the Commission could not enlarge its
powers by making the Company a party to the proceedings
and serving it with notice. Therefore the matter to be
considered here, subject to the qualification that we are
about to state, is how far an ordinary witness could be
required to answer the questions that are before the
court.
We have stated the nature and object of the investigation, and it is to be observed that not every advantage
that may enure to a shipper as the result of the position
of his plant, his ownership or his wealth is a preference.
Interstate Commerce Commission v. Diffenbaugh, 222 U. S.
42, 46. But the intervening corporation may be a means
by which an owner of property transported indirectly
renders the services in question, and in that event its
charges axe subject to the Commission. by § 15. The
supposed unreasonable charge may be used as a device
to attain the forbidden end and therefore reasonable
latitude should be allowed. to see if any such, device is
used. Interstate Commerce Commission v. Brimson, 154
U. S. 447, 464. But still until Armour Car Lines .is shown
to be merely the tool of Armour & Company it has
the general immunities that we have stated. With the

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

foregoing general principles in view we proceed to dispose
of the questions asked.
It is not necessary to repeat the many pages of questions at length. They are grouped by the Government
into classes and numbered so that the result may be
stated in comparatively few words. The first group concerning interlocking officers and relations between Armour Car Lines, Armour & Company and Fowler Packing Company, questions 1, 2, 3 and 7, should be answered.
The only objection was on account of the general intent
avowed as we have stated. So also questions 4, 5, 6,
concerning the acquirement of cars previously owned
by Armour and Company and Armour Packing Co.,
making the second group. Also questions 8, 9, 12 and
13, as to contracts of Armour Car Lines with Armour &
Company and Colorado Packing Company for furnishing
cars and icing service. The next group, so far as the
queftions concern the ownership, manufacture and repair
of cars, Nos. 10, 11, 14,16, 17 and 19, need not be answered,
except 11 "where are the cars of Armour Car Lines repaired when not repaired in shops of railroads?" The
last two groups concern matters into which the Commission was not authorized to inquire. The fifth, questions
15, 20, 21, 25, 26, 27, and 28, called for statements showing
profit and loss, credits and debits to income &c., so far as
the same related to transportation as defined in the act;
and the sixth, Nos. 22, 23, and 24, for statements showing
the amount invested in each icing plant and the detailed results of the operation of each, amount invested
in each, cost per ton of ice at the source of supply &c.,
&c., all matters belonging to the private business of the
Armour Car Lines and not open if our interpretation of
the law is correct. Our decision, however, must be without
prejudice to the possibility that the case may be brought
within § 15 by evidence to the effect stated above.
Decree reversed without prejudice.

CUMBERLAND GLASS CO. v. DE WITT.
237 U. S.

Syllabus.

MR. JUSTICE DAY, while not differing from the general
views taken by the court, is of opinion that the nature of
the inquiry under § 15 made it proper that all the questions should be answered.
.MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in
the consideration or decision of this case.

CUMBERLAND GLASS MANUFACTURING COMPANY v. DE WITT AND COMPANY.
ERROR TO COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF MARYLAND.
No. 191.

Argued March 10, 1915.-Decided May 10, 1915.

A plea of former judgment in a Federal court adjudicating a right of
Federal origin, asserts a right which if denied makes the case reviewable here under § 237, Judicial Code. DepositBank v. Frankfort,
191 U. S. 499.
The effect of a composition proceeding as provided in the Bankruptcy
Act is to substitute that proceeding for the bankruptcy proceeding
and in a measure to supersede the latter, and, when the composition is.
confirmed, to reinvest the bankrupt with all his property free from
claims of his creditors.
Composition proceedings arise from the bankruptcy proceedings and
this part of the statute is to be construed with the entire act.
Wilmot v. Mudge, 103 U. S. 217.
The restoration of his estate to the bankrupt after a composition
restores to him the right of action upon choses in action. Cf. Slone
v. Jenkins, 176 Massachusetts, 544.
The object of the set-off provision in § 68-a of the Bankruptcy.Act is
to permit the statement of accounts between the bankrupt and his
creditor with a view to the application of the doctrine of set-off between mutual debts and credits; it is permissive rather than mandatory, does not enlarge the doctrine of set-off and cannot be invoked
where the general principles of set-off would not justify it.
The set-off provision in § 68-a of the Bankruptcy Act is not self-

