THAMES & MERSEY INS. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 19
237 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

THAMES AND MERSEY MARINE INSURANCE
COMPANY, LIMITED, v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 616.

Argued January 13, 1915.-Decided April 5, 1915.

United States v. Hvoslef, ante, p. 1, followed to effect that the requirement of § 5 of the Tucker Act, requiring the suit to be brought in
the District in which claimant resides, is one of procedure which
can be waived and is waived by a general appearance.
Although the Government way assert in its demurrer to an action
brought in the District Court for refund of taxes under the Tucker
Act that it appears specially, a demurrer Which raises not only the
question of jurisdiction of the subject-matter of the action but also
that of the merits-seeking to obtain a decision on the constitutionality of the tax-is in substance a general appearance and amounts to
a waiver of objection with respect to the district in which the suit is
brought.
Exportation is a trade movement and the exigencies of trade determine
what is essential to the process of exporting.
Insurance against loss is an integral part of exportation and is so vitally
connected therewith that a tax on the policies is essentially a tax
upon the exportation as such.
Taxes on policies of marine insurance on exports are within the prohibitions of § 9, Art. I, of the Federal Constitution, prohibiting any
tax or duty on articles exported from any State; and held that amounts
paid for stamps on such policies under the War Revenue Act of 1898
were illegally exacted and recoverable under the Refunding Act of
July 27, 1902.
217 Fed. Rep. 685, reversed.
THE facts, which involve the construction of § 9, Article I, of the Federal Constitution, prohibiting any tax or
duty on exports and the validity of stamp taxes under the

War Revenue Act of 1898 on policies of marine insurance
on exports, are stated in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for the United States.

237 U. S.

Mr. Everett P. Wheeler for plaintiff in error:
Insurance policies on exports are articles exported.
Art. I, § 9, Cl. 5, Fed. Const.
Constitutional prohibition applies when the document
taxed is intended to, and does become a part of the business of exporting. Fairbank v. United States, 181 U. S.
283; Almy v. California,24 How. 169; N. Y. & Cuba S. S.
Co. v. United States, 125 Fed. Rep. 320, and see act of
Feb. 1, 1909, 35 Stat. 590.
The policy of insurance is a part of the usual commercial
documents on the export of goods. Tamvaco v. Lucas, 30
L. T. Q. B. 234; Hickox v. Adams, 34 L. T. N. S. 404;
Benjamin on Sales, 5th ed., § 590, p. 705; Mee v. McNider,
109 N. Y. 500; and see act of Sept. 2, 1914 (Public 193), establishing Government War Insurance Bureau.
When these policies were issued to cover exports, they
became at once an instrumentality .of export and as such
were not taxable. Paul v. Virginia, 8 Wall. 168, distinguished.
The argument that the tax is upon goods within the
domestic jurisdiction is rebutted. Cornell v. Coyne, 192
U. S. 415, distinguished.
In support of these contentions see cases supra and
The Antelope, 2 Ben. 405; Cunningham v. Hall, 1 Cliff. 43;
Hickox v. Adams, 34 L. T. N. S. 404; Ireland v. Livingston,
L. R. 5 H. L. 395; Nathanv. Louisiana,8 How. 73; People's
Ferry Co. v. Beers, 20 How. 393; Stroms Bruks &c. v.
Hutchinson, 1905, App. Cas. 515; N. Y. Life Ins. Co. v.
Deer Lodge County, 231 U. S. 495, distinguished.
Mr. Solicitor General Davis, with whom Mr. Theodor
Megaarden was on the brief, for the United States:
The District Court was without jurisdiction of the
action.
The claim of the petitioner was presented to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue and by him rejected. The

THAMES & MERSEY INS. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 21
237 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

remedy of petitioner was therefore an action against the
Collector of Internal Revenue and not against the United
States.
It does not affirmatively appear that the action was
brought in the district in which the petitioner resides.
An allegation that a corporation is doing business in a
certain State does not necessarily import that it' was
created by the laws of that State. Brock v. Northwestern
Fuel Co., 130 U. S. 341; Insurance Co. v. Francis,11 Wall.
210; Shaw v. Quincy Mining Co., 145 U. S. 444.
The petition fails to state a cause of action in that it does
not show that the tax was paid involuntarily and after
protest.
The tax which was imposed upon policies of marine
insurance was not unconstitutional.
In Paul v. Virginia, 8 Wall. 168; Hooper v. California,
155 U. S. 648; and N. Y. Life Ins. Co. v. Deer Lodge County,
231 U. S. 495, it has been held that insurance is a mere
incident, and not a part of commerce and that the State's
power over the subject is absolute and not limited by the
interstate commerce clause of the Constitution.
As insurance is not commerce under the interstate commerce clause, it cannot be foreign commerce within the
meaning of the clauses exempting exports from a tax by
Congress.
The taxes involved in this case affect articles exported
in only the most remote and incidental manner, and a
provision therefor is no more unconstitutional than an act
of Congress in regulation of commerce which has a mere
incidental effect upon exportations. Armour Packing Co.
v. United States, 209 U. S. 56, 79-80; C., B. & Q. Ry. v.
United States, 209 U. S. 90; McLean v. Denver & R. G.

R. R., 203 U. S. 38, 50.
The effect of a contrary holding must not be overlooked.
It means the giving of immunity from all taxes of every
kind and description, to all property and persons in any

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

way incidentally connected with foreign trade. See Turpin v. Burgess, 117 U. S. 504.
A contract of insurance does not in any way assist to
carry the goods or to start them on their voyage, nor even
to evidence the title thereto, and has no physical relation
whatever to foreign commerce.
MR.

JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff in error is a corporation engaged in the
business of underwriting policies of marine insurance.
It brought this action to recover the amount paid as stamp
taxes upon policies insuring certain exports against marine
risks. The taxes were paid under the War Revenue Act
of June 13, 1.898, c. 448, 30 Stat. 448, 461; and the recovery
was sought under the provisions of the act of July 27, 1912,
c. 256, 37 Stat. 240, upon the ground that the tax was
invalid, being in substance a tax upon exportation and
hence cqntrary to §9, Article I, of .the Federal Constitution, prohibiting any tax or duty on articles exported from
any State.
It was alleged that the policies were issued in the following manner: Open policies were executed by the Insurance
'Company containing an agreement that the Company
would insure all cargoes which the insured should ship
in the foreign trade during the life of the policies, and that
the shipper would procure such insurance and from time
to time would pay the premiums according to the regular
rates for the particular voyages. When the shipper had
a cargo of goods ready for export, 'designated and set
apart from all other goods for shipment on a particular
ship,' he filled up certain blank forms of declaration (furnished to him by the Company) in accordance with the
facts of each case and delivered the declaration to the
Company at or about the time of the sailing of the vessel
with the cargo on board. In many cases the declaration

THAMES & MERSEY INS. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 23
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

was not delivered until the vessel had sailed. Upon receiving each of the declarations, the Company entered the
amount and rate of the premium and delivered to the
shipper a certificate of insurance by which the goods described were insured for the voyage and upon the vessel
specified. It was further averred that bills of exchange
were drawn by the exporters on the consignees of the
merchandise for the purchase price, and that the bills of
lading and the certificates of insurance were by custom required as the necessary documents to enable the exports
to be made and the bills to be discounted; and that these
documents were actually forwarded to the foreign country
to which the goods were shipped. At the end of each
month, the Company rendered to the insured a bill for
the premiums which had accrued in accordance with the
declarations; and, monthly, the Company presented to
the Collector a book containing a summary of the premiums earned in respect of such insurance and purchased
the stamps required by the War Revenue Act. By direction of the Collector-in accordance with the method
prescribed for mutual convenience by the Commissioner
of Internal Revenue-these stamps were affixed to the
book and then canceled. In each case, the goods were in
fact exported and were insured during their transit by sea
to the foreign ports. The claim for the refunding of the
taxes was duly presented to the Collector, it was alleged,
under the act of 1912, and was transmitted to the Commissioner
of Internal Revenue who refused payment.
The Government
demurred upon the grounds that the
court had no jurisdiction of the defendant, or of the subject of the action, and that the petition did not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action. The District
Court sustained the demurrer, holding the tax to be a valid
one (217 Fed. Rep. 685). Judgment was entered dismissing the petition, and this writ of error has been sued out.
The Government seeks to support the judgment by

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

denying the jurisdiction of the District Court upon the
ground that it was not shown that the petitioner resided
within the district (act of March 3, 1887, c. 359, § 5, 24
Stat. 505, 506), as it was not set forth that the petitioner
was incorporated in the State of New York (Shaw v.
Quincy Mining Co., 145 U. S.444). It was alleged that
the petitioner was a corporation and that 'its principal
office for conducting said business in the United States
and itsresidence was and is in the Borough of Manhattan,
City of New York, in said District.' On behalf of the
Company, it is asserted in argument that it is a foreign
.corporation, that is, foreign to the United States, and
hence it is insisted that the provision of § 5 of the Tucker
'Act is inapplicable (citing In re Hohorst, 150 U. S. 653,
660). This 'question is not here, as the record does not
show the place of incorporation. But the contention of
the Government is inadmissible for the reason that it does
not appear that~the objection as to the district was raised
below, and the decision of the District Court, which has
jurisdiction 'concurrent with the Court of Claims' of
the subject-matter of such an action within the prescribed
limit as to amount (Jud. Code, § 24, par. 20), was invited
upon the merits. The requirement of § 5 of the Tucker
Act (which was saved from repeal, Jud. Code, §297); is
one of procedure which could be waived (United States v.
Hvoslef, ante, p. 1), and the question of jurisdiction submitted under the demurrer was deemed by the District
Court to be the same as that which had been considered
and decided in the Hvoslef Case (217 Fed. Rep. 680, 682,
683); that is, as to the authority to entertain a suit against
the United States under the act of July 27, 1912, supra.
While the Government asserted in its demurrer that it
appeared specially, it raised by that pleading not simply
the question of the jurisdiction of such a suit against the
United States but also that of the merits, seeking, and
thus obtaining, a decision as to the constitutionality of

THAMES & MERSEY INS. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 25
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the tax and hence of the insufficiency of the facts alleged
to support a recovery. Such a demurrer is in substance
'a general appearance to the merits' and is a waiver of
objection with respect to the district in which the suit was
brought. Western Loan Co. v. Butte Mining Co., 210 U. S.
368, 372; St. Louis &c. Ry. v. McBride, 141 U. S. 127, 130.
The other preliminary questions being identical with
those determined in United States v. Hvoslef, supra, we
come at once to the application of the constitutiou al provision; and upon this point it is unnecessary again to review the decisions establishing the governing principle.
There; the question was as to the validity of the tax upon
charter parties which were exclusively for the carriage of
cargo from state ports to foreignA ports, and, here, the
question is as to the tax upon policies insuring such exports
during the voyage. Is the tax upon such policies so ,directly and closely related to the 'process of exporting'
that the tax is in substance a tax upon the exportation and
hence within the constitutional prohibition? It is manifest that we are not called upon to deal with transactions
which merely anticipate exportation, or with goods that
are not in the course of being actually exported (Coe v.
Errol, 116 U. S. 517; Turpin v. Burgess, 117 U. S. 504;
Kidd v. Pearson, 128 U. S. 1; Cornell v. Coyne, 192 U. S.
418). Nor have we to do, in the present case, with the
taxation of the insurance business, as. such, or with the
power of the State to fix the conditions upon which foreign
corporations may transact that business within its borders
(Paul v. Virginia, 8 Wall. 168; Hooper v. California, 155
U. S. 648; Noble v. Mitchell, 164 U. S. 367; Nutting v.
Massachusetts, 183 U. S. 553; N. Y. Life Ins. Co. v. Deer
Lodge County, 231 U. S. 495). Let it be assumed, as this
court has said, that the insurance business, generically
considered, is not commerce; that the contract of insurance is a personal contract,--an indemnity against the
happening of a contingent event. The inquiry still re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

mains whether policies of insurance against marine risks
during the voyage to foreign ports are aot so vitally connected with exporting that the tax on such policies is essentially a tax upon the exportation itself.
The answer must be found in the actual course of trade;
for exportation is a trade movement and the exigencies of
trade determine what is essential to the process of exporting. The avails of exports are usually obtained by drawing
bills against the goods; these drafts must be accompanied
by the bills of lading and policies or certificates of insurance. It is true that the bills of lading represent the goods,
but the business of exporting requires not only the contract
of carriage but appropriate provision for indemnity against
marine risks during the voyage. The policy of insurance
is universally recognized as one of the ordinary 'shipping
documents.' Thus, when payment is to be made in exchange for such documents, they are held to include not
only a proper bill of lading but also 'a policy of insurance
for the proper amount.' Tamvaco v. Lucas, 1 B. & S.185,
197, 206. It is not sufficient to tender the bill of lading
without the policy. Benjamin on Sales, § 590, note;
Hickox v. Adams, 34 L. T. N. S.404. The requirements
of exportation are reflected in the familiar 'C. I. F.' contract (that is, at a price to cover cost, insurance, and
freight), which has 'its recognized legal incidents, one of
which is that the shipper fulfils his obligation when he has
put the cargo on board and forwarded to the purchaser a
bill of lading and policy of insurance with a credit note
for the freight, as explained by Lord Blackburn in Ireland
v. Livingston' (L. R. 5 H. L. 395, 406). Strbms Bruks
Aktie Bolag v. Hutchison (1905) A. C., 515, 528. See also
Mee v. McNider, 109 N. Y. 500. It cannot be doubted
that insurance during the voyage is by virtue of the demands of commerce an integral part of the exportation;
the business of the world is conducted upon this basis.
In illustration of this, the appellant appropriately directs

THAMES & MERSEY. INS. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 27
237U., S.

Opinion of the Court.

our attentirn to the recent action of Congress in establishing the War Risk Insurance Bureau, by which the Government itself undertakes -o supply insurance against war
isks in order to protect exports from the burden of excessive rates. Act of Septembeir12, 1914, c. -293, 38 Stat.
711. In the report of the Committee of the House on
Interstate and Foreign Commerce recommending the
passage of the bill as an emergency measure, reference is
made to the fact that other nations were -insuring the
vessels and cargoes, under their respective flags against
war risks. (House Reports, 63d Cong. 2d Sess., Report
No. 1112.) The bill itself recites that the foreign commerce
of the United States 'is now greatly impeded and endangered' through the lack of such provision, and that it is
deemed 'necessary and expedient that the United States
shall temporarily provide for the export shipping trade
adequate facilities for the intsurance of its commerce
against the risks of war.' This is a very clear recognition
of the fact that proper insurance during the voyage is one
of the necessities of exportation. The rise in rates for
insurance as immediately affects exporting as an increase
in freight rates, and the taxation of policies insuring cargoes during their transit to foreign ports is as much a
burden on exporting as if it'were laid on the charter parties,
the bills of lading, or the goods themselves. Such taxation
does not deal with preliminaries, -or with distinct or separable subjects; the tax falls upon the exporting process..
For these reasons, we must conclude that, under the
established rule of construction, the tax as laid in the present case was within the constitutional prohibition. Fairbank v. United States, 181 U. S. 283; United States v.
Hvoslef, ante, p. 1.
Judgment reversed.
MR.JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the consideration and decision of this case.

