ROYAL ARCANUM v. GREEN.
237 U. S.

Syllabus.

were not susceptible of being disclosed by an examination.
As under the provisions of § 444 of the Porto Rican
Code when rightly interpreted, in the absenrie of proof of
the bad faith of the defendants they were not liable for the
return of the fruits and revenues during the period of their
possession even although the bad faith of Mourraille,
their author, had been established during the period of his
possession, it follows that there was error in the refusal
of the court below to so instruct the jury and hence a
reversal must result and a new trial follow. Before,
however, so directing, we observe that we are of opinion
that the contention concerning the want of right of the
plaintiff to recover rents and revenues of the property sued
for for the period of his minority because of the administrative authority vested by law in his mother, under the
circumstances here disclosed was without merit, and that
such also is the case concerning the objection made to
the admissibility of testimony concerning the quantum of
fruits and revenues because of its speculative character.
The judgment therefore will be reversed and the case remanded for further proceedings in conformity with this
opinion.
Reversed.

SUPREME COUNCIL OF THE ROYAL ARCANUM
v. GREEN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 106.

Argued December 8, 9, 1914.-Decided June 1, 1915.

Where the trial court refuses to hold that the rights of the parties were
to be determined by the law of another State in which a decree had
been rendered establishing them and to apply such law, it refuses
to give due effect to such decree, and a question arises under the full

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Counsel for the Plaintiff in Error.

237 U. S.

faith and credit clause of the Federal Constitution and this court
has jurisdiction under § 237, Judicial Code.
The rights of members of a corporation of a fraternal and beneficiary
character have their source in the constitution and by-laws of the
corporation, and can only be determined by resort thereto, and such
constitution and by-laws must necessarily be construed by the law
of the State of its incorporation.
The law of the State by which a corporation is 'reated governs in
enforcing liability of a stockholder to pay his stock subscription and
in establishing the relative rights and duties of stockholders and the
corporation.
A failure by the court to give effect to and apply the law of the State
of incorporation in consideration of a judgment rendered in tht
State amounts to denying full faith and credit to such judgment.
In this case held that a judgment rendered by a court of the State of
incorporation holding an amendment to the constitution and bylaws of a fraternal and beneficiary corporation-to be legal, amounted
to a construction of the charter by the courts of the State which
the courts of another State were bound to recognize under the full
faitlk and credit clause of the Federal Constitution.
A fraternal and beneficiary society is, for the purpose of controversies
as to assessments, the representative of all of its members; and a
judgment of the State of incorporation as to the validity of an amendment to the Constitution and by-laws must be given effect by the
courts of another State even though not between the corporation and
the same member.
Green v. Elbert, 1-37 U. S: 615, followed in striking from the files of
this .court the brief of counsel of one of the parties on account of
its being so full, of vituperative, unwarranted and impertinent expressions in regard to opposing counsel.
206 N. Y. 591, reversed.

THt facts, which involve the effect and application of
the full faith and credit clause of the Federal Constitution
and other matters, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Howard C. Wiggins, with whom Mr. Curtis Waterman, Mr. John Haskell Butler, Mr. W. Holt Apgar and

Mr. Joesph A. Langfitc were on the brief, for plaintiff in
error.

ROYAL ARCANUM v. GREEN.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. F. J. Moissen for defendant in error:
Plaintiff in error is a corporation organized under the
laws of Massachusetts; and, beyond such comiuy as any
other State is willing to confer upon it, it has no corporate
status in any other State, and is subject in such other
State to any and all the laws, regulations and limitations
prescribed therein upon foreign corporations.
The contract, the subject of the transaction herein, was
made in and was to be performed in the State of New
York, and therefore the rules of law as to its construction
and performance must be under the laws of New York,
and the laws of Massachusetts have no application.
Amendments to by-laws such as have been made to the
by-laws of the plaintiffs in error as affecting contracts
previously entered into by corporations like the plaintiffs
in error have been held invalid by the courts of the State
of New York as affecting such prior contracts and that
rule of law is the policy of that State.
The Massachusetts judgment offered in evidence on the
trial in the court below was properly excluded; it did not
bind the defendant in error in any manner what3oever,
and the claim on the part of the plaintiff in error that the
defendant in error is concluded by it, is absolutely untenable.
No Federal question was raised by .the pleadings nor
upon the trial in the court below, where, under the law
of New York, it must be raised for the first time to be considered by the court either upon trial or upon appeal.
That cannot be raised for the first time on appeal in this
court.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of
the court.
\Conformably to the authority conferred by the general
laws. of Massachusetts to organize fraternal beneficiary

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

corporations, in 1877 there was issued to designated
persons a certificate of incorporation under the name of
the Supreme Council of the Royal Arcanum. By the
constitution and by-laws, referred to in the certificate,
the corporation became what is known as a fraternal
association under the lodge system. Its principal objects as stated were:
"1st. To unite fraternally all white men of sound
bodily health and good moral character, who are socially
acceptable and between twenty-one and fifty-five years
of age.
"2nd. To give all moral and material aid in its power
to its members and those dependent upon them.
"3rd. To educate its members socially, morally and
intellectually; also to assist the widows and orphans of
deceased members.
"4th. To establish a fund for the relief of sick and distressed members.
"5th. To establish a widows' and orphans' benefit
fund, from which, on the satisfactory evidence of the
death of a member of the order, who has complied with
all its lawful requirements, a sum not exceeding three
thousand dollars shall be paid to his family, or those dependent on him, as he may direct. . .
There was power conferred by the constitution and
by-laws to subsequently amend such constitution and bylaws in the manner therein provided. The general governing power of the Order was vested in the Supreme Council
and the administration of its affairs under the supervision of such Council was entrusted to the officers named
in the constitution. Authority was given to the Supreme
Council to sanction the organization of local lodges or
councils upon whom were conferred certain powers not
in any way conflicting with the constitution and by-laws
of the Order, and the members of such local lodges or
councils were required to be members of the Order and

ROYAL ARCANUM v. GREEN.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

were subject to the duties and responsibilities which
resulted from that relation and enjoyed also the resulting
benefits.
Pursuant to the constitution under due authority
there was organized in the State of New York a local
lodge or council known as the De Witt Clinton Council
No. 419 of the Royal Arcanum. In May, 1883, Samuel
Green, the defendant in error, made application to become, and was admitted as, a member of this council.
In his application it was directed that in case of his
death, "all benefit to which I may be entitled from the
Royal Arcanum, be paid to Louisa Green related to me
as my wife, subject to such future disposal of the benefit,
among my dependents, as I may hereafter direct, in
compliance with the Laws of the Order. . . . I
agree to make punctual payment of all dues and assessments. for which I may become liable, and to conform in
all respects to the Laws, Rules, and Usages of the Order
now in force, or which may hereafter be adopted by the
same."
Upon the admission of the applicant a certificate was
issued to him as a member of the De Witt Clinton Council
No. 419, of the Royal Arcanum upon the condition,
among others, "that the said member complies, in the
future, with the laws, rules and regulations now governing the said Council and Fund, or that may hereafter be
enacted by the Supreme Council to govern said Council
and Fund." The certificate then stated that upon compliance with these conditions, "The Supreme Council
of the Royal Arcanum hereby promises and binds itself
to pay out of its Widows' and Orphans' Benefit Fund,
to Louisa Green (wife) a sum not exceeding Three Thousand Dollars, in accordance with and under the provisions
of the laws governing said Fund, upon satisfactory evidence of the death of said member.
"
At the time this certificate was issued, under the by-

O9TOBER -TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

laws the amount of the assessment required to be paid
to the corporation to enable it to meet claims coming
due under the Widows' and Orphans" Benefit Fund was
graded according to the age of the member, and the contribution required of Green for this purpose. was stated
in his certificate to be $1.80 per assessment, and he paid
up to 1898 at. that rate various assessments called for under
the rules of the Order. In 1898 by a three-fourths vote
of the Supreme Council, the system theretofore prevailing,
exacting the payment of assessments as called for was
changed and the duty was imposed to make payment
monthly of a sum the amount of which, although still
dependent upon the age of the member, was higher than
had previously prevailed. Under these new rates the sum
due from Green was $3.16 per month, and he met regularly
the payments thus exacted until the year 1905. In that
year by the action of the Supreme Council taken in virtue
of the requisite three-fourths vote, while the standard
of age was continued, the sum to be paid was again increased so that the monthly assessment of Green became
$6.87, and from October, 1905, when these new rates
became effective, down to February, 1910, it is not disputed that Green paid the amount of the increased assessments monthly, although it was found by the trial court
that he did so under protest because of a denial on his
part of the right of the Supreme Council even under the
sanction of the requisite vote and in compliance with
the forms of the constitution and laws of the Order to
increase the rates.
In the meanwhile shortly after the going into effect
of the increased rates, that is, in November, 1905, sixteen members of the Order, holders of certificates under
the Widows' and Orphans' Benefit Fund, filed a bill in
the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts against
the corporation in their own behalf and in behalf of all
other certificate holders to vacate and set aside the by-

ROYAL ARCANUM v. GREEN.
237 U. S.

Opinion of. the Court.

laws by which the rates had been increased on tie ground
that the increase was ultra vires of the corporation and
violative of contract rights. The case was submitted by
agreement of counsel to the whole court upon an agreed
statement of facts and was on May 17, 1906, decided.
The court after a careful review of the general nature of
the corporation, of the character of the fund, of the
rights of its members as evidenced by the certificates,
of the constitution and by-laws of the corporation and the
laws of the State applicable thereto, decided that the
increase complained of was valid, impaired no contract
right of the certificate holders and was entitled to be
enforced. Reynolds v. Supreme Council, Royal Arcanum,
192 Massachusetts, 150.
Four years after this decision Green ceased to make the
payments required by the by-laws of the corporation and
in virtue of hi§ membership and ownership of the certificate issued to him commenced in a state court in New
York this suit against the Supreme Council and the
Regent of De Witt Clinton Council No. 419, assailing
the validity of the increase in the rate of assessment made
in 1905 on the ground that it was void as exceeding the
powers of the corporation and because conflicting with
his contract rights as a member of the corporation and a
certificate holder. The prayer of the bill was not that
the corporation be restricted to the method and rate of
assessment which prevailed in 1883 when the complainant became a member, but that the corporation be confined to the rate of assessment established by the amendment adopted in 1898 and that the complainant be decreed
to have a contract right to pay only that sum monthly in
discharge of his duty to pay assessments and that the
co.rporation and its officers be enjoined during his life
from exacting any greater sum or in any way suspending
him for refusing to pay the amount fixed by the amendment of 1905.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

The answer in twenty-seven distinct paragraphs asserted the validity of the assessment and the action
of the corporation by which it was established. It asserted that the complainant as a member in a mere
beneficiary association was bound thereby and that no
contract rights of his were affected. In many reiterated
forms of statement it was asserted that the corporation
was created under the laws of Massachusetts and was
subject thereto and that under those laws, by which
the power to make the change was to be determined, the
validity of the change was beyond question. It was then
alleged that the Reynolds suit in the courts of Mapsachusetts was brought by certain members and certificate
holders against the corporation not only in their own
behalf but as a class suit in favor of all others similarly
situated and that the facts in that case were substantially
identical with those presented in this. The judgment of
the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts maintaining the by-law and holding that the assessment was
valid and binding and that no contract rights existing in
favor of certificate holders were impaired by the increase
of xate was explicitly referred to and in addition the
twenty-seventh paragraph of the answer expressly counted
on the judgment as follows:
"That the defendant Supreme Council says that the
rights of the plaintiff in respect to his contract with the
said defendant and his membership in the defendant
order, and the changes adopted by it were and are concluded and determined by the aforesaid judgment of the
Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts; that under the
Constitution of the United States the same is entitled
to full faith and credit in the State of New York, -and
that the complaint should be dismissed."
On the trial the proceedings and judgment in the
Massachusetts court duly exemplified as required 'by the
Act of Congress were offered in evidence and excluded

ROYAL ARCANUM v. GREEN.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and an exception reserved. The court made what in
the record are styled findings of fact but which embrace
every question of law which it was conceived the controversy could possibly involve. The court held that the
complainant was not barred by laches in consequence
of his having accepted the amendment to the rates made
in 1898, and that as he had protested in making the payments during the four years as to the rates fixed under the
amendment of 1905, he was not estopped from questioning
the validity of that amendment. It was decided that
under the law of New York as a certificate holder the
complainant had a contract which entitled him to prevent
any increase of rate over that established in 1898. So far
as the law of Massachusetts was concerned it was declared that although it was governed by that law, the assessment would be valid, as the complainant was a member
of a subordinate couicil existing in New York and doing
business there, the rights of its members were controlled
by the New York law wholly irrespective of the law of
Massachusetts. The rights asserted by the complainant
were adjudged to exist and the relief prayed for was
granted.
The case then went to the Appellate Division of the
Second Department. The court considering the character
of the corporation, the provisions of its constitution and
by-laws and the powers which they conferred on the corporation, as well as the application for membership and
the certificate issued pursuant thereto, decided that the
amendment as to rates was not ultra vires of the corporation but on the contrary was within its powers and violated
no contract rights of the complainant. Without deciding
whether the case was controlled by the law of Massachusetts, and without passing upon the action of the trial court
in seemingly rejecting the offer of the Massachusetts
judgment, the court, treating that judgment as before it
and considering besides the Massachusetts law as open

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

for its consideration, held that the law of that State and
the judgment there rendered served additionally to sustain the view taken as to the significance of the constitution and by-laws of the order and thus served additionally
to demonstrate that error had been committed by the
trial court in holding that under the law of New York
there was a right to relief. 144 App. Div. (N. Y.) 761.
The case then went to the Court of Appeals where the
judgment of the Appellate Division was reversed and that
of the trial court affirmed on the ground that the law of
New York governed and established under the circumstances disclosed the right of the complainant to the relief
which had been awarded him. 206 N. Y. 591.
It is not disputable that, disregarding details, all the
rights asserted under the assignments of error come to one
contention, that a violation of the full faith and credit
clause of the Constitution of the United States resulted
from refusing to hold that the rights of the parties were
to be determined by the Massachusetts law and to apply
that law, and in further refusing to give due effect to the
decree rendered in Massachusetts concerning the subject
of the controversy.
By a motion to dismiss it is urged that this question is
not open for consideration because it was not raised below.
But, as we have seen, the fact that the charter was a
Massachusetts charter and the controlling character of
the laws of that State on its operation and effect were asserted by way of defense over and over again in the pleadings. It is, indeed, true that in none of the averments
concerning the duty to apply the Massachusetts law and
the validity under that law of the provision of the con.stitutions and by-laws which was assailed was any express
reference made to the full faith and credit clause of the
Constitution of the United States, but this was not the
case as to the Massachusetts judgment which was expressly
pleaded, accompanied with an explicit &verment that not

ROYAL ARCANUM v. GREEN.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to give it due effect would be a violation of the full faith
and credit clause of the Constitution of the United States.
And as what was the due effect to be given to the judgment
depended, as we shall hereafter more particularly point
out, upon whether the Massachusetts law controlled the
parties, since if it did, the judgment would be entitled to
one effect, and if it did not, to another effect, it follows
that the claim as to constitutional right concerning the
judgment also involved deciding whether the Massachusetts law controlled. It follows that in both aspects the
claim of full faith and credit under the Constitution of the
United States was asserted, and whether the court below
erred in holding that that clause was inapplicable because
the contract was a New York contract governed by New
York law is the question for decision. And the solution of
that question involves two considerations: first, was the
controversy to be determined with reference to the Massachusetts charter and laws and judgment; and second, if
yes, did they sustain the right of the corporation to make
the increased assessment complained of?
Before coming to consider the subject in its first aspect
as controlled by authority, we briefly contemplate it
from the light of principle in order that the appositeness
of the authorities which are controlling may be more
readily appreciated.
It is not disputable that the corporation was exclusively
of a fraternal and beneficiary character and .that all the
rights of the complainafit concerning the assessment to
be paid to provide for the Widows' and Orphans' Benefit
Fund had their source in the constitution and by-laws and
therefore their validity could be alone ascertained by a
consideration of the constitution and by-laws. This being
true, it -necessarily follows that resort to the constitution
and by-laws was essential unless it can be said that the
rights in controversy were to be fixed by disregarding the
source from which they arose and by putting out of view'

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

the only considerations by which their scope could be
ascertained. Moreover, as the charter was a Massachusetts charter and the constitution and by-laws were a part
thereof, adopted in Massachusetts, having no other sanction than the laws of that State, it follows by the same
token that those laws were integrally and necessarily the
criterion to be resorted to for the purpose of ascertaining
the significance of the constitution and by-laws. Indeed,
the accuracy of this conclusion is irresistibly manifested
by considering the intrinsic relation between each and all
the members concerning their duty to pay assessments and
the resulting indivisible unity between them in the fund
from which their rights were to be enjoyed. The contradiction in terms is apparent which would rise from holding on the one hand that there was a collective and unified
standard of duty and obligation on the part of the members
themselves and the corporation, and saying on the other
hand that the duty of members was to be tested isolatedly
and individually by resorting not to one source of authority applicable to all but by applying many divergent,
variable and conflicting criteria. In fact their destructive
effect has long since been recognized. Gaines v. Supreme
Council of the Royal Arcanum, 140 Fed. Rep. 978; Royal
Arcanum v. Brashears, 89 Maryland, 624. And from this
it is certain that when reduced to their last analysis the
contentions relied upon in effect destroy the rights which
they are advanced to support, since an assessment which
was one thing in one State and another in another, and a
fund which was distributed by one rule in one State and
by a different rule somewhere else, would in practical
effect amount to no assessment and no substantial sum
to be distributed. It was doubtless not only a recognition
of the inherent unsoundness of the proposition here relied
upon, but the manifest impossibility of its enforcement
which has led courts of last resort of so many States in
passing on questions involving the general authority of

ROYAL ARCANUM v. GREEN.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

fraternal associations and their duties as to subjects of a
general character concerning all their members to recognize the charter of the corporation and the laws of the
State under which it was granted as the test and measure
to be applied. Supreme Lodge v. Hines, 82 Connecticut,
315; Supreme Colony v. Towne, 87 Connecticut, 644;
Palmer v. Welch, 132 Illinois, 141; Grimme v. Grimme, 198
Illinois, 265; American Legion of Honor v. Green, 71 Maryland, 263; Royal Arcanum v. Brashears,89 Maryland, 624;
Golden Cross v. Merrick, 165 Massachusetts, 421; Gibson
v. United Friends, 168 Massachusetts, 391; Larkin v.
Knights of Columbus, 188 Massachusetts, 22; Supreme
Lodge v.. Nairn, 60 Michigan, 44; Tepper v. Royal Arcanum, 59 N. J. Eq. 321; S. C., 61 N. J. Eq. 638; Bockover
v. Life Association, 77 Virginia, 85. In fact, while dealing
with various forms of controversy, in substance all these
cases come at last to the principle so admirably stated by
Chief Justice Marshall more than a hundred years ago
(Head v. Providence Insurance Co., 2 Cranch, 127, 167) as
follows:
"Without ascribing to this body, which, in its corporate
capacity, is the mere creature of the act to which it owes
its existence, all the qualities and disabilities*annexed by
the common law to ancient institutions of this sort, it
may correctly be said to be precisely what the incorporating act has made it, to derive all its powers from that act,
and to be capable of exerting its faculties only in the manner which that act authorizes. To this source of its being,
then, we must recur to ascertain its powers.
"
In addition it was by the application of the same principle that a line of decisions in this court came to establish: first, that the law of the State by which a corporation
is created governs in enforcing the liability of a stockholder
as a member of such corporation to pay the stock subscription which he agreed to make; second, that the state
law and proceedings are binding as to the ascertaining of,

544

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

the fact of insolvency and of the amount due the creditors
entitled to be paid from the subscription when collected;
and third, that putting out of view the right of the person
against whom a liability for a stockholder's subscription
is asserted to show that he is not a stockholder, or is not
the holder of as many shares as is alleged, or ha- claim
against the corporation which at law or equity iie is entitled to set off against the corporation, or has any other
defense personal to himself, a decree against the corporation in a suit brought against it under the state law for the
purpose of ascertaining its insolvency, compelling its
liquidation, collecting sums due by stockholders for subscriptions to stock and paying the debts .of the corpora-'
tion, in so far as it determines these general matters, binds
the stockholder, although he be not a party in a personal
sense, because by virtue of his subscription to stock there
was conferred on the corporation the authority to stand
in judgment for the subscriber as to such -general questions. Selig v. Hamilton, 234 U: S. 652; Converse v. Hamilton, 224 U. S. 243; Bernheimer v. Converse, 206 U. S. 516;
Whitman v. National Bank, 176 U. S. 559; Hawkins v.
Glenn, 131 U. S. 319.
That the doctrines thus established if applicable here
are conclusive is beyond-dispute. That they are applicable
clearly results from the fact that although the issues here
presented as to things which are accidental are different
from those which were presented in the cases referred to,
as to every essential consideration involved the cases are
the same and the controversy here presented is and has
been therefore long since foreclosed.
The controlling effect of the law of Massachusetts being
thus established and the error committed by the court
below in declining to give effect to that law and in thereby
disregarding the demands of the full faith and credit clause
being determined, we come to consider whether the increase of assessment which was complained of was within

ROYAL ARCANUM v. GREEN.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the powers granted by the Massachusetts charter or conflicted with the lIws of that State. Before doing so, however, we observe that the settled principles which we have
applied in determining whether the controversy was
governed by the Massachusetts law clearly make manifest
how inseparably what constitutes the giving of full faith
and credit to the Massachusetts judgment is involved in
the consideration of the application of the laws of that
State and therefore, as we have previously stated, how
necessarily the express assertion of the existence of a right
under the Constitution of the United States to full faith
and credit as to the judgment was the exact equivalent
of the assertion of a claim of right under the Constitution
of the United States to the application of the laws of the
State of Massachusetts. We say this because if the laws
of Massachusetts were not applicable, the full faith and
credit due to the judgment would require only its enforcement to the extent that it constituted the thing adjudged
as between the parties to the record in the ordinary sense,
and on the other hand, if the Massachusetts law applies,
the full faith and credit due to the judgment additionally
exacts that the right -of the corporation to stand in judgment as to all members as to controveizies concerning the
power and duty to levy assessments must be recognized,
the duty to give effect to the judgment in such case being
substantially the same as the duty to enforce the judgment.
Additionally, before coming to dispose of the final question it is necessary to say that in considering it in view of
the fact that the Appellate Division treated the Massachusetts judgment as in the record and considered it, and that
the court below made no reference to its technical inadmissibility, but on the contrary treated the question as
being one not of admissibility but of merits, we shall pur-.
sue the same course and treat the judgment as in the
record upon the hypothesis that the action of the trial
VOL. ccxxxvii-35

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

court did not amount to its technical exclusion but only
to a ruling that as it deemed the law 'of Massachusetts
inapplicable it so considered the judgment, and therefore
held it merely irrelevant to the merits.
Coming then to give full faith and credit to the Massachusetts charter of the corporation and to the laws of
that State to determine the powers of the corporation and
the rights and duties of its members, there is no room for
doubt that the amendment to the by-laws was valid if we
accept, as we do, the significance of the charter and of the
Massachusetts law applicable to it as announced by the
Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts in the Reynolds
Case. And this conclusion does not require us to consider
whether the judgment per se as between the parties, was
not conclusive in view of the fact that the corporation for
the purposes of the controversy as to assessments was the
representative of the members. (See Hartford Life Ins.
Co. v. Ibs, this day decided, post, 662.) Into that subject
therefore we do not enter.
Before making the order of reversal we regret that we
must say something more. The printed argument for the
defendant in error is so full of vituperative, unwarranted
and impertinent expressions as to opposing counsel that
we feel we cannot, having due regard to the respect we
entertain for the profession, permit the brief to pass unrebuked or to remain upon our files and thus preserve the
evidence of the forgetfulness by one of the members of
this bar of his obvious duty. Indeed, we should have
noticed the matter at once when it came to our attention
after the argument of the case had we not feared that by
doing so delay in the examination of the case and possible
detriment to the parties would result. Following the
precedent established in Green v. Elbert, 137 U. S. 615,
which we hope we may not again have occasion to apply,
the brief of the defendant in error is ordered to be stricken
from the files and the decree below in accordance with the

DANIELS v. WAGNER.
237 U. S.

Syllabus.

views which we have expressed will be reversed and the
cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent
with this opinion.
Reversed.

DANIELS v. WAGNER.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 239. Argued April 21, 1915.-Decided June 1, 1915.
Under the Forest Act of June 4, 1897, c. 2, 30 Stat. 36, one whose land
was included in a forest reserve had the right to apply to the Land
Office, and, on surrendering his land, to obtain the right to enter an
equal amount of public lands on offering to do all that the law and
lawful regulations of the Land Department required.
The fact that an officer of the Land Department commits a wrong by
denying to an individual a right expressly conferred by law cannot
become the generating source of a discretionary power to make such
wrongful act legal. Cosmos Co. v. Gray Eagle Co., 190 U. S. 301,
distinguished.
One who has done everything essential, exacted either by law or the
lawful regulations of the Land Department, to obtain a right from
the Land Office conferred upon him by Congrcss, cannot be deprived of that right either by the exercise of discretion or by a wrong
committed by the Land Officers.
Error of law having been committed by the Land Department in assuming that it had a discretionary power to reject a lieu entry made
under the Forest Act of June 4, 1897, by one who had offered to
comply with the statute and lawful regulations of the Department,
its action is not sustainable, :upon general equitable considerations,
such as were made the basis for refusing to issue certificates in this

case.
Because a patent of the United States is involved, does not necessarily
require the United States to be a party to an action to determine
to whom it should have been issued.
205 Fed. Rep. 235, reversed.

