OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

237 U. S.

HARTFORD LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY v. IBS.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT IN AND FOR THE COUNTY
OF RAMSEY, STATE OF MINNESOTA.
No. 213.

Argued March 19, 1915.-Decided June 1, J915.

To exclude from evidence a decree of the courts of the State in which
an insurance company is organized adjudging the rights of the corporation as between itself and members of its mortuary fund and
to refuse to enforce the provisions of such decree amounts to denying to it the full faith and credit to which it is entitled under the
Federal Constitution.
Whether treated as an expectancy or as a contingent interest, the
right of the wife to recover from an assessment corporation of which
her husband was a member, makes her in privity with him and she
is bound by the contracts which he may have entered into with the
corporation in regard to the mortuary fund created under contract
between the members.
While a mortuary fund made up by contributions from all members
may be single, the interest of the members is common and the proper
court of the jurisdiction in which the corporation managing the fund
chartered has power to determine all questions relating to its internal
management; and the decree of such a court in a suit brought on behalf of all similarly interested establishing the rights of members of
the fund, is binding upon all members similarly interested, and must
be given full faith and credit in the courts of other States in cases
between the corporation and such members.
Where a common interest in a fund does exist, and it is impracticable
for all concerned to be made parties, it is proper that a class suit
should be brought in the proper court of the State in which the corporation managing the fund is chartered, and the decree in such a
case is binding upon all the class.
Even if the suit in which a decree in another State is offered is for a
different purpose than the one in which the decree was rendered, it
must be given full faith and credit and is admissible, and must be
regarded as conclusive, as to the right, question, or fact determined
so long as it remains unmodified. Southern Pacific Co. v. U. S., 168
U. S. 48.
121 Minnesota, 310, reversed.

HARTFORD LIFE INS. CO. v. IBS.
237 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

THE facts, which involve the question of whether the
state courts of Minnesota gave full faith and credit to a
judgment of the State of Connecticut establishing the
rights of an insurance company and holders of mortuary
assessable certificates, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Frederick W. Lehmann, with whom Mr. James C.
Jones, Mr. John M. Holmes and Mr. George F. Haid were
on the brief, for plaintiff in error:

The issue as to the right and propriety of maintaining a
Mortuary Fund was involved in both the Connecticut and
the Minnesota cases. Southern Pacific v. United States,
168 U. S. 1; Klein v. Insurance Co., 104 U. S. 88.
The plaintiff in the Minnesota case stood as to the Connecticut case in privity with her husband, and he was by
representation a party to the Connecticut case. Smith v.
Swormstedt, 16 How. 288; Wallace v. Adams, 204 U. S. 415;
2 Perry on Trusts, § 885; 2 Beach on Trusts, § 498; Scott
v. Donald, 165 U. S. 116.
The Connecticut court was a court of competent jurisdiction to determine the question of the right of the company to maintain the Mortuary Fund, and its decree was
binding upon the company and all its members. Condon

v. Mutual Reserve, &c., 89 Maryland, 99; Clark v. Mutual
Reserve, 14 App. D. C. 154; Taylor v. Mutual Reserve, 97
Virginia, 60; State v. Shain, 254 Missouri, 78.
The Minnesota court did not give full faith and credit
to the judicial proceedings in Connecticut, and refused
to give any effect whatever to the decree of the Connecticut
court. Nations v. Johnson, 24 How. 195; Huntington v.
Attrill, 146 U. S. 657; Insurance Co. v. Harris, 97 U. S.
381; Harris v. Balk, 198 U. S. 215; Selig v. Hamilton, 234
U. S. 652.
Mr. 0. E. Holman, with whom Mr. C. D. O'Brien and
Mr. Edmund S. Durment, were on the brief, for defendant
in error:

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

237 U. S.

The defendant in error was not a party to the Connecticut suit either of record, by privity or representation.
The defendant in error was not in privity with her husband, the insured.
The insured was not a party to the Connecticut suit by
representation.
Neither the beneficiary nor the insured was bound by
the Connecticut decrees; neither was served with process
therein, either personal or constructive; nor did either
appear.
The issues in the two actions were not the same.
The Minnesota court was at liberty to determine for
itself the jurisdictional questions whether, under the
general law, the defendant in error was a party to the
Dresser suit and whether the issues in the two suits were
the same, and was under no obligation to treat the
Connecticut decrees as a bar or estoppel to this action.
The decision of the Supreme Court of Minnesota. is not
against the title, privilege or immunity especially set up
or claimed by the plaintiff in error under the United
States Constitution.
The decision of the Supreme Court of Minnesota does
not impair the obligation of the contract within the meaning of Art. 1, § 10, of the United States Constitution.
Bacon v. Texas, 163 U. S. 207; Bigelow v. Old Dominion
Copper Co., 225 U. S. 111; Blount v. Walker, 134 U. S.
607; Boswell's Lessee v. Otis, 9 How. 348; Brooklyn v.
Insurance Co., 9 Otto, 362; Carey v. Brown, 2 Otto, 171;
Central Bank v. Hume, 128 U. S. 195; Commercial Pub.
Co. v. Beckwith, 188 U. S. 567; Condon v. Mutual Reserve,
89 Maryland, 99; Cromwell v. Sac County, 4 Otto, 351;
Cross Lake Club v. Louisiana, 224 U. S. 632; Equitable
Life Assurance Society v. Patterson, 1 Fed. Rep. 126; Ex
parte Howard, 9 Wall. 175; Hart v. Mouton, 80 N. W.
Rep. 601; In Re Strantz,.27 N. E. Rep. 259; Johnson v.
Hartford Life Insurance Co., 166 Mo. App. 261; Jurgens

HARTFORD LIFE INS. CO. v. IBS.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

v. New York Life Ins. Co., 114 California, 161; Kerrison
v. Stewart, 3 Otto, 155; Pennoyer v. Neff, 5 Otto, 714;
Reynolds v. Stockton, 140 U. S. 254; Russel v. Place, 4
Otto, 606; Scott v. Donald, 165 U. S. 107; Empire v.
Darlington, 11 Otto, 87; Union Central Life Ins. Co. v.
Buxer, 49 L. R. A. 737; Vicksburg v. Henson, 231 U. S.
259; Wabash Ry. Co. v. Adelbert College, 208 U. S. 38;
Webster v. Reid, 11 How. 437; Williams v. Gibbs, 17 How.
239; 24 Am. & Eng. Ency. Law, 2nd ed. 750; 23 Cyc.
1246, 1253-1261.
MR. JUSTICE LAMAR delivered the opinion of the court.

On April 4, 1885, The Hartford Life Insurance Co. issued
to Herman Ibs a certificate of membership in its Safety
Fund Department which was conducted on the Mutual
Assessment plan. The certificate provided that if the
policy was kept in force, by the payment of all assessments
duly levied upon all the members to create a Mortuary Fund,
his wife should be entitled to receive at his death an
indemnity of $2,000 payable out of such Mortuary Fund.
On May 2, 1910, under Call 127, he was assessed $35.95
to meet 145 claims which matured during the quarter
ending March 31. He failed to pay and his policy was
cancelled June 23, 1910. He died June 27 and thereafter
his wife brought suit in a Minnesota court against the Company. It defended on the ground that the policy had been
forfeited by reason of Ibs' failure to pay the assessment
levied to meet the 145 claims. To this the plaintiff replied
that most of these claims had been paid out of the Mortuary Fund during the quarter and that the balance of cash
on hand March 31 was sufficient to have paid all of the
other claims. Because of these facts she claimed the assessment of May 2 was both unnecessary and void.
In answer to this the Company insisted that the Fund
was maintained as a source from which to make prompt

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

settlement of claims, but that such advances did not
prevent the levy of the quarterly assessment which when
collected was to be used in replenishing the ,Fund. In
support of this defense it offered a certified copy of the
decree of a Connecticut court, in the case of Dresser and
Other Certificate Holders v. HartfordLife Ins. Co., in which
it was adjudged that the Company had the right so to maintain and use the Fund. The plaintiff objected to the
admission of this decree on the ground, among others,
that she was not a party to the proceeding in which it was
rendered. The court sustaied her objections, excluded
the decree, and directed a verdict in her favor. That
ruling having been affirmed by the , Supreme Court of
the State (121 Minnesota, 310), the case was brought here
by the Insurance Company on a record which raises the
sole question as to whether the Minnesota courts failed
to give full faith and credit to the judicial proceedings
of another State as required by Art. IV, § 1 of the Constitution.
In order to answer that question it becomes necessary to
make a brief statement of the facts giving rise to the suit
and to the terms of the decree-not for the purpose of
determining whether the decision was correct but in order
to decide whether the Connecticut court had jurisdiction
to enter a decree binding on a beneficiary who was not a
party to the proceeding.
The Hartford Life Insurance Company, though a stock
corporation under the laws of Connecticut, had what was
known as the "Safety Fund Department," conducted on
the Mutual Assessment plan. The Company kept the
books, levied the assessments, deposited the collections in
the Mortuary Fund, and paid claims therefrom as they
matured. It was not otherwise liable on the policies.
The Mutual Insurance plan contemplated the creation
of a Safety Fund of $1,000,000 from membership fees. In
addition to this there was to be a Mortuary Fund, raised

HARTFORD LIFE INS. CO. v. IBS.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

by graduated assessments levied on all the members for
use in payment of death claims. These assessments were
levied periodically and provision was made that in fixing
the amount to be levied an allowance should be made
"for discontinuance in membership." Itso happened that
the lapses were not so numerous as had been estimated and
consequently each assessment realized something more
than was needed to pay the matured claims. This difference, between the collections and the insurance paid, was
retained in the Mortuary Fund and, in time, the "excess
margins" amounted to nearly $400,000.
In 1908 the Hartford Life Insurance Company determined to discontinue the Safety Fund Department and
to write no more insurance on the Assessment plan.
Thereafter no new members were admitted. This change
of policy was the occasion of a disagreement between the
Certificate-Holders and the Company. Accordingly,
Dresser and thirty other members, residing in different
States, brought suit in a Connecticut court, "in their own
behalf and on behalf of all others similarly situated,"
against the Company, its Directors and Trustees. The
Bill attacked the management of the Company and, among
other things, insisted that it had been and was still levying
assessments too many in number and too large in amount.
The Bill also alleged that the Company had recently
decided to discontinue writing insurance on the Assessment plan and was endeavoring to induce members to
surrender their Certificates and to take out ordinary life
policies in the Company's stock department. By reason
of this change of policy and the consequent decrease in
membership in the Safety Fund Department and the
increase in assessments the Bill alleged that the present
Certificate-Holders, who had created the Mortuary Fund,
were entitled to an immediate distribution of the moneys
therein.
The Company's demurrer was sustained and the Bill

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

dismissed. Dresser and the other certificate-holders then
took the case to the Supreme Court of Connecticut where
the judgment was reversed.. 80 Connecticut, 681. The
case having been remanded there was an answer and a
hearing. On March 23, 1910, the court made findings of
law and fact, many of which are not material to the
matter involved in the present litigation. In reference to
the Mortuary Fund, the trial court found that, though
acting in good faith, the Company in making assessments
had overestimated the number of lapses in membership
and, consequently, the assessments had raised more than
was needed to pay claims; that these excesses or margins
had accumulated and amounted to many thousands of
dollars; that these excess collections were in the Mortuary
Fund and
"are now in constant use in the prompt payment of
losses in advance of the receipt of the moneys to pay the
same from the regular assessments, by which receipts the
said Fund is constantly reimbursed.
"The plaintiffs claimed it was improper and wrongful to
accumulate these margins and to carry this balance in said
mortuary fund, and claimed that said balance of margins
should be distributed among the outstanding certificateholders, but it is held that it is proper and reasonable that
the Company ,should hold such Fund for the purpose of
enabling it to pay losses promptly, but it is not necessary
for that purpose that the company should hold more than
the amount of one average quarterly assessment for the
previous year.
The Mortuary Fund arising as above described
or from any other source together with all income or
interest thereon belongs to the Men's Division of the
Safety Fund Department, and the Insurance Company is
reasonably entitled to hold the same as a necessary and
-proper. fund for the settlement of death claims on the
certificates of insurance in said Department, and that any

HARTFORD LIFE INS. CO. v. IBS.
237 U. S.

669

Opinion of the Court.

excess above the average of the quarterly assessment for
the previous year shall be distributed in diminution of
assessments by crediting and applying such excess on
account of the next succeeding assessment."
From other evidence in the present case it appeared
that 145 members died during the quarter which ended
March 31, 1910.
Their certificates amounted to
$323,919.95. The cash in the Mortuary Fund was sufficient to meet all of these claims and out of it $198,994.19
had been paid prior to March 31, leaving therein more
than enough to settle the remaining certificates, aggregating $124,925.76, which, though accruing during the
quarter, had not been finally proved on March 31.
It required at least 30 days in which to adjust claims,
levy the assessment, make the calculation of the amount
due by each of the more than 12,000 members and send
out the proper notices. Having made the necessary
calculations, the Company, on May 2, 1910, made an
assessment of $323,919.95, as of March 31, 1910, with
which to meet the 145 claims specified. It gave notice to
Ibs that his dues and assessment to meet these 145 claims
was $35.95 payable on June 5. He failed, to pay and a
second notice was given that unless the Company received
the assessment by June 20, 1910, his policy would be
forfeited. He still neglected to pay and on June 23 the
Company canceled the policy. Ibs died on June 27.
The widow then sued; and in answer to the Company's
claim that the policy had been forfeited she contended, as
already stated, that the assessment of $323,919.95 was
void because $198,473.58 had, in fact, been paid out of the
Mortuary Fund before March 31 and there was on that
date a balance therein sufficient to pay all of the other
claims included in the call.
1. But if the Mortuary Fund had been thus finally
appropriated to the payment of claims-without the right
of a reimbursement from the next assessment-thf Fund

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

would have been permanently destroyed and the Company would have been deprived of the right to maintain
and use it as a source from which thereafter to make
prompt settlement. That the Company had such right
was expressly recognized and adjudged in the Connecticut
decree. To exclude it from evidence and to decline to
enforce its provisions was to deny it the full faith and
credit to which it was entitled under the provisions of
Art. IV, § 1 of the Constitution of the United States.
2. The plaintiff insists, however, that she was not a
party to the proceedings in which the decree was entered
and, therefore, not bound by its terms. But in this
regard she was in privity with her husband. For while,
under the terms of the contract embodied in the certificate,
he may not have had the right to assign the policy, or to
change the beneficiary, or to lessen the amount payable
at his death, yet,-whether treated as an expectancy or as
a contingent interest-her right to receive an indemnity
depended upon her husband being a member at the time
of his death, since failure to pay the assessments would
work a forfeiture. As the members were the owners of a
Mortuary Fund which had been created under the terms
of a plan which was, in effect, a contract between themselves there was no reason why they and the Company
might not enter into a further contract as to its present
distribution or future use. If they failed in making an
arrangement among themselves there was no reason
why-in case of such disagreement-their conflicting
claims and rights could not be determined by the judgment of a tribunal of competent jurisdiction.
3. The Fund was single, but having been made up of
contributions from thousands of members their interest
was common. It would have been destructive of their
mutual rights in the plan of Mutual Insurance to use the
Mortuary Fund in one way for claims of members residing
in one State and to use it in another way as to claims of

HARTFORD LIFE INS. CO. v. IBS.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

members residing in a different State. To make advances
replenished by aessments against those living in Connecticut-and to make advances without the right to
replenish against those living in Wisconsin-would have
destroyed the Very equality the Assessment plan was
intended to secure. Manifestly the question as to the
ownership and proper administration of the Fund could
not be left at large for collateral decision in every suit on
certificates held by those who had failed to pay the assessment. For-whether the members of the "Safety Fund
Department" are regarded as occupying a position
analogous to that of shareholders; or are treated as
beneficiaries of trust property in the hands of the Company, as Trustee, in the State of Connecticut,-the courts
of that State had jurisdiction of all questions relating to
the internal management of the corporation. Selig v.
Hamilton, 234 U. S. 652; Insurance Co. v. Harris,97 U. S.
336; Condon v. Mutual Reserve, 89 Maryland, 99; Maguire
v. Mortgage Co., 203 Fed. Rep. 858. It was for the court
of the State where the Company was chartered and where
the Fund was maintained to say what was the character
of the members' interest-whether they were entitled to
have it distributed in cash; or used in paying the next
assessment; or retained as a Fund for the prompt settlement of claims with the right and duty on the part of the
Company, as their Trustee, to replenish the same by collections from succeeding assessments. But it was impossible
for the Company to bring a suit against 12,000 members
living in different parts of the United States. It was
equally impossible for the 12,000 members to bring a suit
against the Company to determine the questions involved.
Under these circumstances Dresser and thirty other
members, holding certificates, brought suit "in their own
behalf and in behalf of all others similarly situated."
4. That allegation, of course, would not by itself determine the character of the proceeding (Wabash Railroad v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

Adelbert College, 208 U. S. 58). For, in order that the
decree should be binding upon those certificate-holders
who were not actually parties to the proceeding, it had to
appear that Dresser and the other complainants had an
interest that was, in fact, similar to that of the other
members of the class, and that it was impracticable for all
concerned to be made parties. But, when such common
interest in fact did exist, it was proper that a Class suit
should be brought in a court of the State where the Company was chartered and where the Mortuary Fund was
kept. The decree in such a suit, brought by the Company
against some members, as representatives of all, or brought
against the Company by 30 certificate-holders for "the
benefit of themselves and all others similarly situated,"
would be binding upon all other certificate-holders.
. "Where the parties interested in the suit are numerous,
their rights and liabilities are so subject to change and
fluctuation by death or otherwise, that it would not be
possible, without very great inconvenience, to make all
of them parties, and would oftentimes prevent the prosecution of the suit to a hearing. For convenience, therefore,
and to prevent a failure of justice, a court of equity permits a portion of the parties in interest to represent the
entire body, and the decree binds all of them the same as
if all were before the court. The legal and equitable
rights and liabilities of all being before the court by
representation, and especially where the subject-matter
of the suit is common to all, there can be very little danger
but that the interest of all will be properly protected and
maintained." Smith v. Swormstedt, 16 How. 303. See
also Hawkins v. Glenn, 131 U. S. 330; Bealls v. Illinois
R. R., 133 U. S. 290; Kerrison v. Stewart, 93 U. S. 155;
Supreme Council of Royal Arcanum v. Green, this day decided, ante, p. 531. The principle is recognized both in
England and in this country. 1 Pomeroy Eq. Jur. (3d ed.),
§§ 267, 268. In Corey v. Sherman, 96 Iowa, 114, and

HARTFORD LIFE INS. CO. v. IBS.

237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Carlton v. Southern Mutual Ins. Co., 72 Georgia, 371 (2);
379 (5-10), the rule was applied in cases involving the
rights of those interested in mutual insurance funds
raised by collections from many policy-holders.
5. It is said, however, that even if the decree, determining the status and use to be made of the Mortuary Fund,
was binding upon members and beneficiaries, it could not
be offered in evidence in a suit on a policy of insurance,
since the cause of action and the thing adjudged in the
two cases was different-one involving the status of the
Fund and the rights of members therein while the present
case related to the right of a beneficiary to recover on a
policy and the power of the Company to declare a forfeiture. But the defendant's contention that the policy
had lapsed, because of the failure of Ibs to pay the assessment, and the plaintiff's reply that the assessment was
void because the Mortuary Fund was sufficient to meet
Call 127, raised an issue as to the right of the Insurance
Company to levy the assessment. On that issue the
Connecticut decree was admissible, since it adjudged that
the Company had the right to make advances to pay
claims and could subsequently collect the amount of such
claims by an assessment levied as in the present case. Its
right so to do having been determined by a court of
competent jurisdiction, the decree was binding between
the parties or their privies in any subsequent case in which
the same right was directly or collaterally involved. For
"even if the second suit is for a different cause of action, the
right, question, or fact once so determined must, as between
the same parties or their privies, be taken as conclusively
established, so long as the judgment in the first suit remains
unmodified." Southern Pacific Co. v. United States, 168
U. S. 48-49. So also it was held in Forsyth v. Hammond
(166 U. S. 518), that "though the form and causes of action
be different, a decision by a court of competent jurisdiction in respect to any essential fact or question in the one
VOL. ccxxxvii-43

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

action is conclusive between the parties in all subsequent
actions."
There are other questions in the case which present no
Federal question, but for error in refusing to admit the
decree of the Connecticut court the judgment is
Reversed.

SAWYER v. GRAY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 632.

Argued April 22, 1915.-Decided June 1, 1915.

Danielsv. Wagner, ante, p. 547, followed to the effect that the Secretary
of the Interior has no discretionary power to refuse to allow land
properly selected for exchange under the Forest Lieu Land Act of
June 4, 1897, to be patented -to an applicant who has complied with
all statutory requirements in regard to such exchange.

facts, which involve the construction of the Forest
Lieu Lands Act of 1897 and the extent of discretionary
power on the Secretary of the Interior to reject applications for exchange of lands thereunder, are stated in the
opinion.
THE

Mr. Francis W. Clements, with whom Mr. Alexander
Britton and Mr. Evans Browne were on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. H. H. Field, with whom Mr. F. M. Dudley was on
the brief, for appellees.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the

court.
This case is controlled by Daniels v. Wagner, No. 238,
ante, p. 547, recently decided. The suit was brought for

