OCTOBER TERM, 1914.

Syllabus.

237 U; S.

ascertaining what proportion of the full damages should
be excluded from the recovery. On the contrary, the
matter of diminishing the damages was committed to the
jury without naming any standard to which their action
should conform other than their own conception of what
was reasonable. In this there was a failure to give proper
effect to the part of the statute before quoted. It prescribes a rule for determining the amount of the deduction
required to be made and the jury should have been advised of that rule and its controlling force.
It results that the objection to the instructions upon
this subject was well taken and should have been sustained.
Judgment reversed.

COLLINS v. JOHNSTON, WARDEN OF THE CALIFORNIA STATE PRISON.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 594.

Argued February 25, 1915.-Decided May 17, 1915.

In habeas corpus proceedings this court is confined to the examination
of fundamental and jurisdictional questions; the writ cannot be
employed as a substitute for a writ of error.

Refusal of the trial court to permit a proffered defense, even if erroneous, does not ordinarily affect the jurisdiction or amount to more
than error.
An averment of arbitrary action in judicial ruling merely states a conclusion of law and has no effect in the absence of facts alleged sufficient to show that the ruling was actually arbitrary.
Even though the question whether the judgment was rendered by a
properly constituted court were open here, this court sees no reason
to disagree with the meaning attributed by the state courts of Cal-

COLLINS v. JOHNSTON.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ifornia to Art. VI, §§ 6 and 8 of the constitution of that State in
regard to a judge of the Superior Court of one county holding a
court in another county on the request of the governor of the State.
An amendment of the constitution giving authority where it existed
before may be adopted from abundant caution and not as recognizing
and supplying a casus omissus.
A sentence of fourteen years imprisonment for one duly convicted of
perjury does not amount to a deprivation of liberty without due
process of law where it does not exceed the limit authorized by the
statute.
Comparative gravity of criminal offenses is a matter for the State itself
to determine, and the fact that some offenses are punished with less
severity than others does not amount to a denial of equal protection
of the law.
The prohibition in the Eighth Amendment of cruel and unusual
punishments is a limitation upon the Federal Government and not on
the States.
A person extradited from Great Britain is not protected by § 5275,
Rev. Stat., from being tried and convicted for a crime committed in
the State after extradition-and so held in this case as to perjury committed on the trial of the crime for which the party was extradited.
THE facts, which involve questions raised under the
'Eighth and Fourteenth Amendments, and under an extradition treaty, as to the validity of the conviction and
sentence of, appellant in a criminal court of California,
are stated in the opinion.

Mr. George D. Collins pro se, submitted.
Mr. Raymond Benjamin, Chief Deputy Attorney General of the State of California, with whom Mr. Robert W.
Harrison,Deputy Attorney General of the State of California, and Mr. U. S. Webb, Attorney General for the
State of California, were on the brief for the appellee.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal, taken under § 238, Jud. Code, to review a final order of. the District Court of the United

504

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

States for the Northern District of California denying
appellant's petition for a writ of habeas corpus to be addressed to appellee, as warden of the State Prison of the
State of California, in whose custody appellant alleges
he is held in violation of the Constitution, laws, and
treaties of the United States. The petition was based
upon § 753, Rev. Stat., and was denied under § 755 upon
the ground that, on the face of it, the petitioner was not
entitled to the writ.
Appellant is held under the authority of a judgment of
the Superior Court in and for the City and County of San
Francisco, in the State of California, imposing a sentence
of imprisonment for the term of fourteen years, upon his
conviction for perjury upon an indictment presented
December 29, 1905. The allegations of fact upon which
the Federal questions are raised are somewhat involved,
and not easily understood without reference to previous
proceedings set forth in Collins v. O'Neil, 214 U. S. 113,
of which appellant asks us to take judicial notice. Reading the averments of the petition with this aid, the following facts appear: On July 13, 1905, appellant was indicted
by the grand jury of the City and County of San Francisco for the crime of perjury, committed in the giving
of testimony in an action pending in a court of that county
wherein one Charlotta Collins was plaintiff and appellant
was defendant, in which she sought to obtain maintenance,
support, and alimony for herself and her child; the alleged
false testimony being that the said Charlotta and appellant
did not intermarry on May 15, 1889, or at any other time,
and were never husband and wife. To answer this indictment appellant was extradited from Canada, and he
was put upon trial in the month of December before the
Superior Court of the City and County of San Francisco.
The jury disagreed, and while appellant was in custody
awaiting a further trial he was, on December 29, 1905,
again indicted for perjury, the offense being alleged to

COLLINS v. JOHNSTON.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

have been committed in the giving of evidence upon the
trial of the first indictment, in that he falsely testified that
on, May 15, 1889, at a specified place in the City of San
Francisco, a marriage ceremony was performed between
him and one Agnes Newman, whereas in truth, at the time
and place specified, a marriage ceremony was performed
between him and one Charlotta Newman. Before being
placed on trial upon the second indictment, appellant
applied to the United States Circuit Court for the Northern
District of California for a writ of habeas corpus, which
was denied. 148 Fed. Rep. 573. He was then tried,
found guilty, and sentenced; the judgment was affirmed
by the District Court of Appeal, and a petition to have
the cause heard in the Supreme Court was denied. 6
Cal. App. 492; 92 Pac. Rep. 513. Meanwhile, successive
applications for habeas corpus were made to the United
States District and Circuit Courts for the Northern District of California, and denied. 151 Fed. Rep. 358; 154
Fed. Rep. 980. And the Supreme Court of California,
having entertained such an application, overruled his
contentions and remanded him to the custody of the Sheriff. 151 California, 340, 351. This court reviewed the
decision of the state Supreme Court, and the decision
of the United States Circuit Court reported in 154 Fed.
Rep. 980, with the result that both were affirmed. 214
U. S. 113...
It is unnecessary to enlarge upon the doctrine, thoroughly established and recently re-stated, that in habeas
corpus proceedings we are confined to the examination
of tundamental and jurisdictional questions, and that
the writ cannot be employed as a substitute for a writ
of error. Frank v. Mangum, decided April 19, 1915,
ante, p. 309.
In his petition and in voluminous briefs appellant
raises numerous questions, of which it is sufficient to
mention the following:

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.

Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

(1) He contends that he was deprived of due process of
law in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment, in that
the trial court arbitrarily denied and refused to consider a
valid and legally conclusive defense offered by him upon
the trial of the second indictment, which resulted in the
conviction upon which he is now held in custody. The
alleged defense was: that testimony relating to the question of fact whether a ceremonial marriage took place on
May 15, 1889, between him and Charlotta Newman could
not be material to the issue upon the first indictment nor
furnish valid or competent foundation for a charge of
perjury, because the marriage, if performed, was a nullity;
and this because at a previous time appellant and Agnes
Newman intermarried by written and mutual contract
of marriage per verba de prcesenti,followed by a consummation and a public and mutual assumption of marital rights,
duties, and obligations, which marriage continued to
exist until dissolved by the death of Agnes in the month
of May, 1901, and because of this previous marriage any
marriage ceremony between appellant and Charlotta on
May 15, A. D. 1889, was void by § 61 of the Civil Code
of California. But, plainly, the question whether testimony respecting the alleged ceremony was material upon
the trial of the first indictment was to be determined by
considering the nature of the issue that was then being
tried, and the state of the other evidence that had been
introduced at the time the alleged false testimony was
given; not by reexamining the merits of that issue or the
truth of the other evidence. The principal questions
at'issue upon the former trial, so far as appears, were:
(a) Did appellant enter into a ceremonial marriage with
Charlotta on the date named? (b) Was he, at that time,
already married to Agnes, then still living? These were
questions of fact; if both were answered in the affirmative,
the marriage with Charlotta although made in fact was
void in law. In order for the prosecution to succeed, the

COLLINS v. JOHNSTON.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

first mustbe answered in the affirmative, the second in the
negative; hence, testimony bearing upon either was
material. The alleged false testimony of appellant tended
to prove the negative of the first question. Manifestly,
when he was afterwards tried upon an indictment for
perjury based upon that testimony, no legitimate light
could be thrown upon the question of its materiality or
of its falsity by re-trying the second question of fact or the
legal conclusions resulting therefrom. This matter was
sufficiently disposed of by the state Court of Appeal in
People v. Collins, 6 Cal. App. 492, 498, 500, 505; 92 Pac.
Rep. 513, 515, 516, 518.
Nor are we able to see that, the refusal of the proffered
defense, even were such refusal erroneous, could at all
affect the jurisdiction of the court, or amount to more
than an error committed in the exercise of jurisdiction.
The averment that the defense was "arbitrarily refused"
merely states a' conclusion of law, and is of no effect
in the absence of facts sufficient to show that the
ruling was in truth arbitrary; and no such facts are
alleged.
(2) A second contention is that the judgment under
which appellant is held in custody is not the judgment
of the Superior Court in and for the City and County of
San Francisco, or of any legally constituted court of
judicature, because Judge Burnett, who presided at the
trial and rendered the judgment, was not a judge de facto
or de jure of that court, but was a judge of the Superior
Court for another county in said State, and presided at
appellant's trial at the request of the Governor, and without the consent or stipulation of appellant or any-request
of the judges of the San Francisco Superior Court. This
contention is to be tested by the state constitution, of
which the pertinent provisions, as they stood at the time
of appellant's conviction, are as follows:
"Art. VI, See. 6. There shall be in each of the organized

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

counties, or cities and counties, of the State, a superior
court, for each of which at least one judge shall be elected
by the qualified electors of the county, or city and county,
at the general state election ; provided . . . that in
the city and county of San Francisco there shall be elected
twelve judges of the superior court, any one or more of
whom may hold court. There may be as many sessions
of said court, at the same time, as there are judges
thereof. . . . The judgments, orders, and proceedings
of any session of the superior court held by any one or
more of the judges of said courts, respectively, shall be
equally effectual as if all the judges of said respective
courts presided at such session.
"Sec. 8. A judge of any superior court may hold a
superior court in any county, at the request of a judge
of the superior court thereof, and upon the request of
the governor it shall be his duty so to do. . . .
Of course, these sections are to be read together, and
their natural meaning is that where a judge of a superior court of one county holds a superior court in another county upon the request of the Governor, the court
so hdld by him constitutes a session of the superior court,
with the same jurisdiction as if one of the elected judges
were sitting. Gardner v. Jones, 126 California, 614, 620,
is to this effect: And when we add that Judge Burnett
presided at appellant's trial upon the request of the Governor, that the District Court of Appeal affirmed the
judgment and the Supreme Court refused to review its
decision (6 Cal. App. 492, 507), and that the latter court,
in the habeas corpus proceeding, upheld the jurisdiction
of the trial court (151 California, 340), no reasonable
doubt remains that the state courts advisedly adopted
such a construction of § 8 as to sustain Judge Burnett's
authority, even though appellant's present contention
was not raised and therefore not distinctly passed upon.
Assuming the question to be open here, we see no reason

COLLINS v. ,tOHNSTON.

237 U. 8.

Opinion of the Court.

to disagree with the meaning thus attributed to the constitution by the courts of the State.
According to appellant's construction of § 8, supra, a
superior court judge elected in one county, when holding
a superior court in another county upon the request of
the Governor, would be without jurisdiction, and incapable
even of holding a "session" of the court, because of the
absence of express provision in the constitution to that
effect. This is so plainly unreasonable that it might be
dismissed as absurd, except for the insistence that by a
constitutional amendment adopted November 8, 1910
(several years after appellant's conviction), the people
themselves recognized a casus omissus in § 8 of Article VI,
and supplied it by adding these clauses: "There may
be as many sessions of a superior court at the same time
as there are judges thereof, including any judge or judges
acting upon request, or any judge' or judges pro tempore.
The judgments, orders, acts and proceedings of any sessioi
of any superior court held by one or more judges acting
upon request, or judge or judges pro tempore shall be
equally effective as if the judge or all the judges of such
court presided at such session." But in view of the
settled construction of the section as it previously stood,
we must regard the amendment as having been adopted,
from abundant caution, to remove all question of doubt,
rather than as recognizing and supplying a casus omissus.
(3) It is contended that a sentence of fourteen years'
imprisonment for the crime of perjury is grossly excessive,
and therefore illegal, and prohibited by the Fourteenth
Amendment of the Constitution of the United States.
The sentence was based upon § 126 of the California
Penal Code, which reads: "Perjury is punishable by imprisonment in the state prison not less than one nor more
than fourteen years." This is not a case, therefore, of a
sentence exceeding the limit authorized by law. In re
Snow, 120 U. S. 274; Hans Nielsen, Petitioner,131 U. S. 176.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

To establish appropriate penalties for the commission
of crime, and to confer upon judicial tribunals a discretion
respecting the punishment to be inflicted in particular
cases, within limits fixed by the law-making power, are
functions peculiarly belonging to the several States; and
there is nothing to support the contention that the sentence imposed in this case violates the provisions of the
Fourteenth Amendment either in depriving appellant of
his liberty without due process of law or in denying to
him the equal protection of the laws. In re Kemmler, 136
U. S. 436, 448; Coffey v. HarlanCounty, 204 U. S. 659, 662.
The argument under the equal protection clause is
based principally upon the averment that the false testimony to the effect that a ceremonial marriage between
appellant and Charlotta Newman did not take place on
May 15, 1889, "'could not by any possibility induce or
influence any order, judgment, or decree of any court or
judge, nor any verdict or judicial proceedings, and did not
and could not by any possibility injure or tend to injure
any one in his or her rights or status in law." Since the
petition shows that the natural tendency, and, presumably,
the intended result, of the perjury was to improperly
procure appellant's acquittal upon the first indictment,
the present contention is so manifestly frivolous as not
to require further discussion. It is argued, also, that in
the case of other felonies denounced by the laws of California, "many of them offenses of greater gravity and of
more injurious consequences than perjury, the average
maximum penalty is five years' imprisonment in the
penitentiary, and no more." But it is hardly necessary
to say that the comparative gravity of criminal offenses,
and whether their consequences are more or less injurious,
are matters for the State itself to determine.
The Eighth Amendment is also invoked, with its prohibition of cruel and unusual punishments; but, as has
been often pointed out, this is a linitation upon the Federal

COLLINS v. JOHNSTON.

237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Government, not upon the States. Barton v. Mayor of
Baltimore, 7 Pet. 243, 247; Pervear v. Commonwealth,
5 Wall. 475, 480; McElvaine v. Brush, 142 U. S.155, 158;
O'Neil v. Vermont, 144 U. S. 323, 332; Ensign v. Pennsylvania, 227 U. S. 592, 597.
(4) It is contended, upon the authority of United States
v. Rauscher, 119 U. S.407, 430; Cosgrove v. Winney, 174
U. S. 64, and other cases, that the conviction and imprisonment of appellant under the second indictment are
in contravention of the treaty of extradition between the
United States and Great Britain, in that he was extradited
for the sole purpose of being brought to trial upon the
first indictment, and that while that charge was awaiting
trial and final disposition, he could not, without violence
to the treaty and § 5275 of the Revised Statutes, be tried,
convicted, sentenced, and imprisoned upon another
charge. It is alleged that the first indictment was dismissed upon motion of the prosecution on July 12, 1909;
and that under the treaty and law he was entitled to a
reasonable time thereafter in which to return to the
country from which he was extradited. In this form, and
in others too numerous for mention, appellant reiterates
the points that were decided against him by the Supreme
Court of California (In re Collins, 151 California, 340),
whose judgment was affirmed by this court in Collins
v. O'Neil, 214 U. S. 113, where the court said (p. 122):
"The contention of the plaintiff in error that the duty
to afford opportunity to return after a trial or other
termination of the case upon which he was extradited is
unaffected by any subsequent crime he may have committed, is not even plausible"; and further (p. -123):
"The, contention is also without merit that he has, at
any rate, the right to a trial to a conclusion of the case for
whioh he was extradited, before he can be tried for a
crime subsequently committed. The matter lies within
the jurisdiction of the State whose laws he has violated

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

237 U. S.

since his extradition, and we cannot see that it is a matter
of any interest to the surrendering government. There
is nothing in § 5275, Rev. Stat., supra, which gives the
least countenance to the claims of the plaintiff in error."
Appellant's other poiuts and arguments are but vaiations of those that have been mentioned.
The final order of the District Court refusing the application for a writ of habeas corpus is
Affirmed.

LONGPRE v. DIAZ.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
PORTO RICO.
No. 51.

Submitted March 15, 1915.-Decided June 1, 1915.

Under the law of Porto Rico as it was in 1892 a widow and guardian
ad litem had no authority to give the property of the minor child 'in
payment of a debt of the deceased father in private sale, and there
was no authority in any judge to approve such a voluntary partition
as was involved in this action.
A disposition of a minor's property by private sale in Porto Rico, unauthorized by the local law, even if approved by a judge, is void,
and the minor, on coming of age, may sue in ejectment under the
provisions of the Civil Code of Porto Rico, then in force and applicable in this case, without first seeking rescission of the partition.
An unsuccessful defendant in ejectment must, unless a purchaser in
good faith, account for the fruits gathered during possession.
While under the Civil Code of Porto Rico good faith is presumed until
bad faith is shown, one who purchases property belonging to a minor
under a confessedly non-existent and void instrument cannot be
a purchaser in good faith.
The rule that the burden of proof to show bad faith is on him who
charges it, does not apply where bad faith is shown ipso facto by the
acquisition being contrary to law.
Under Art. 442, of the. Civil Code of Porto Rico, an heir who possessed

