CHARLESTON & CAR. R. R. v. VARNVILLE CO. 597
237 U. S.

Syllabus.

societies divided the attention of the students and distracted from that singleness of purpose which the State
desired to exist in its public educational institutions. It
is not for us to entertain conjectures in opposition to the
views of the State and annul its regulations upon disputable considerations of their wisdom or necessity. Nor
can we accommodate the regulations to the assertion of a
special purpose by the applying student, varying perhaps
with each one and dependent alone upon his promise.
This being our view of the power of the legislature, we
do not enter upon a consideration of the elements of complainant's contention. It is very trite to say that the
right to pursue happiness and exercise rights and liberty
are subject in some degree to the limitations of the law,
and the condition upon which the State of Mississippi
offers the complainant free instruction in its University,
that while a student there he renounce affiliation with a
society Which the State considers inimical to discipline,
finds no prohibition in the Fourteenth Amendment.
Judgment affirmed.

CHARLESTON & WESTERN CAROLINA RAILWAY
COMPANY v. VARNVILLE FURNITURE COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF TFW. STATE OF SOUTH
CAROLINA.
No. 273.

Argued May 12, 1915.-Decided June 1, 1915.

A state law not contrived in aid of the policies of Congress, but to
enforce a policy of the State differently conceived, cannot be said
to be in aid of interstate commerce.
When Congress 'has taken the particular subject-matter in hand, coincidence of a state statute is as ineffective as opposition, and a

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

237 U. S.

state law on the same subject cannot be sustained as a help to tho
Federal statute because it goes farther than Congress has seen fit
to go.
A state statute which is a burden on interstate commerce is not saved
by calling it an exercise of police power.
Section 2573, Code of 1912, of South Carolina, imposing a penalty on
carriers for failure to settle, or adjust, claims within, forty days is an
unconstitutional burden on interstate commerce and is also in conflict
with the provisions of the Act to Regulate Commerce, as amended
by the act of June 29, 1906. (Carmack Amendment.)
Atlantic Coast Line v. Mazursky, 216 U. S. 122, distinguished, as that
case was decided prior to the enactment of the Carmack Amendment.
98 S. Car. 63, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality under
the commerce clause of the Federal Constitution of certain
provisious of the South Carolina Civil Code of 1912
imposing penalties on carriers for failure to pay claims
within a specified period, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. F. B. Grier for plaintiff in error:
The South Carolina Penalty Act, as construed by the
Supreme Court of the State, makes the delivering carrier
responsible for the delicts of the connecting carrier, resulting in loss or damage, to the lawful holder of the bill
of lading, in a through shipment, although it may not
as a matter of fact be the carrier at fault. Varnville Fur.
Co. v. C. & W. C. Ry. Co., 98 S. Car. 63; Willet v. Railway Co., 66 S. Car. 477; Dupree v. C. N. & L. Ry. Co.,
98 S. Car. 468; Eastover Mule Co. v. Atl. Coast Line, 99
S. Car. 457.
The subject of the Carmack Amendment is carrier
liability for loss, damage or injury to property, caused by
it, or by any connecting carrier to whom the property is
delivered, or over whose line it may pass. It embraces
the entire subject and covers every detail of carrier.
liability to the lawful holder of the bill of lading, which
the receiving or initial carrier is required to issue. River-

CHARLESTON & CAR. R. R. v. VARNVILLE CO. 599
237 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

side Mills v. Atl. Coast Line, 219 U. S. 186; Express Co.
v. Croniger, 226 U. S. 491.
The subject of the statute is carrier liability for freight
overcharge, or for loss or damage to property and baggage
while in possession of such common carrier. The penalty
is automatic and isimposed by the terms of the statute for
a failure to pay the claim for loss or damage within the
time specified by the act. It grows out of and is founded
on carrier liability for loss or damage sustained by the
lawful holder of the bill of lading which the act of Congress requires the carrier to issue. The subject-matter of
the act as to the fundamental and only real question involved is identical with the subject-matter of the act of
Congress. Civil Code 1912, §§ 2572, 2573.
The State has no inherent power to deal with this subject. Its power is permissive only and denendent upon
non-action by Congress, and ceases to exist the moment
that Congress asserts its paramount authority over the
subject, which is of national scope and importance, and
permitting of but'one uniform system of regulations. Mo.,
Kan. & Tex. Ry. v. Harris, 234 U. S. 412; Southern Ry. v.
Reid, 222 U. S. 424; Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. v. Hardwick
Elevator Co., 226 U. S. 426; Express Co. v. Croniger, 226
U. S. 491; Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. v. Cramer, 232 U. S.
490; Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. v. Robinson, 233 U. S. 173.
The statute was upheld on the theory that there was no
Federal legislation on the subject involved. The decisions
held that the penalty imposed was for a delict of duty
pertaining to the business of a common carrier, and in so
far as it affected interstate commerce was an aid thereto
by its tenaency to promote safe and prompt. delivery of
the goods, or, its legal equivalent, prompt settlement of
proper claim for damages.
The cause of action in Charles v. Atlantic Coast Line,
78 S. Car. 36; Atlantic Coast Line v. Mazursky, 216
U. S. 122, arose in 1905, and since then Congress has

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

legislated on the subject. Hepburn Act, June 26, 1906,
and the Mann-Elkins Act, June 18, 1910.
The Hepburn Act has been construed by this court
to deny to the State the power of enforcing by statutory
penalties the duty of receiving and prompt delivery of
property in consummation of interstate transportation.
St. Louis, I. M. & S. Ry. v. Edwards, 227 U. S. 265; Chicago,
R. I. & P. Ry. v. Hardwick Elevator Co.,. 226 U. S. 426;
Southern Ry. v. Reid, 222 U. S. 424.
The Interstate Commerce Commission, pursuant to the
powers conferred on it by the Commerce Act, has assumed
the regulation of the payment of claims for loss or damage
and for overcharge of freight by carriers. Action by
Congress or the Commission supersedes and annuls state
regulation. Northern Pac. Ry. v. Washington, 222 U. S.
370; Southern Ry. v. Reid, 222 U. S. 424; Southern Ry.
v. Reid & Beam, 222 U. S. 444; Conference Ruling No. 462,
April 25, 1914; No. 464, May 28, 1914; Conference Ruling
No. 236.
Congress has legislated specifically with reference to
freight overcharge, and the Interstate Commerce Commission under its delegated powers has assumd control
of the subject. Sections 2, 8 and 9 of the act to regulate
commerce. See Barnes Int. Transp., 600, § 405-D and
p.. 600, § 405-J; Lanning-Harris Co. v. St. L. & S. F.
Ry., 15 I. C. C. 37; Leonard v. N. K. T. R., 12 I. C. C.
538.
No appearance for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is an action for $14.75, damage to furniture in
transit from High Point, North Carolina, to Varnville,
South Carolina, $4.60 overcharge, and $50 penalty under

CHARLESTON & CAR. R. R. v. VARNVILLE CO. 601
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

a South Carolina statute, Civil Code, 1912, § 2573, for
a failure to pay the claims within forty days. The defendant contended that the law imposing the penalty
was invalid under the Act to Regulate Commerce, especially § 20, as amended by the act of June 29, 1906,
c. 3591, 34 Stat. 584, 593, known as the Carmack Amendment. The lower courts gave judgment for the plaintiff
and the juagment was affirmed by the Supreme Court of
the State. Atlantic Coast Line v. Mazursky, 216 U. S.
122, was relied upon as still sustaining the law notwithstanding the amendments of the Federal act. 98 S. Car.
63.
The defendant (plaintiff in error), received the goods
from the. Southern Railway Company and delivered them
in damaged condition. Where the damage was done does
not appear. But by § 2572, in such cases the initial, intermediate, or terminal carrier who fails within forty
days from notice to inform the notifying party when,
where and by which carrier the property was damaged
is made liable for the amount of'the claim and a penalty
of $50, although it may escape by proof that it used
due diligence and was unable to trace the property, etc.
By § 2573 a similar liability is imposed on carriers for
failure to pay claims for freight overcharge or damage to
property while in the possession of such carriers, 'within
forty days in case of shipments from without the State,
after the filing of such claim' &c. If the property never
came into their possession they are remitted to § 2572.
It seems to follow from the decision in this case, that the
terminal carrier is held for a loss anywhere along the line
and for the penalty, unless it proves that the property
never came into its possession, &c., or succeeds in shifting
the loss within the forty days allowed. Therefore the,
assumption of this court in Atlantic Coast Line v. Mazursky, 216 U. S. 122, 129, that the statute only concerned
property lost or damaged while in the possession of a

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

carrier in South Carolina no longer is correct-perhaps
because of amendments in what now is § 2572.
It is true that in the opinion of the Supreme Court the
judgment is spoken of as being for damage done to a shipment 'while in defendant's possession in this State,' and
it is said that the statute limits the liability, to such damage. But in view of the record this can mean no more
than that there is a presumption that the carrier that
fails on notice to point .out some other as responsible is
itself in fault. The defendant happened to be the last
carrier of the line, and in many States, including South
Carolina, a so-called presumption has been established
at common law that property starting in good condition
remained so until the latest moment when it could have
been harmed. But while this seems to have made its
first appearance in the guise of a true presumption of
fact, it became, if it was not always, a rule of substantive
law, a rule of convenience, calling on the last carrier to explain. Willett v. Southern Ry., 66 S. Car. 477, 479.
Moore v. N. Y., -New Haven & Hartford R. R., 173 Massachusetts, 335, 337. The rule is stated as a rule of policy
in South Carolina, and the statute makes it still more
clearly so, since with the limits that we have stated, it
applies indifferently to any carrier in the line, if within
the State, according to the accident of the plaintiff's demand. The case then, we repeat, is that a carrier in interstate commerce has been held liable for a loss not shown
to have happened while the goods were in its possession
or within the State, or to have been caused by it, if those
facts are now in any way material, on the strength of a
rule of substantive law.
The claims dealt with in Atlantic Coast Line Co. v.
Mazursky, 216 U. S. 122, all arose before June 29, 1906, the
date of the Carmack Amendment. The South Carolina
law has been amended and enlarged in scope since that
decision but it is less necessary to scrutinize those changes

CHARLESTON & CAR. R. R. v. VARNVILLE CO. 603
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

than to consider the modifications of the United States
law., As it now stands that law requires the initial carrier
to issue a through bill of lading and makes it liable for all
damage anywhere on the route. § 20. By § 1 as amended
by the act of June 18, 1910, § 7, c. 309, 36 Stat. 539, 546, it
is made the duty of carriers to secure the safe transportation and delivery of property subject to the act, upon
reasonable terms. As was said in Missouri, Kans. & Tex.
Ry. Co. v. Harris, 234 U. S.412, 420, the result of many
recent cases, there cited, beginning with Adams Express
Co. v. Croniger,226 U. S.491 and coming down through
Boston & Maine R. R. . Hooker, 233 U. S. 97, is that 'the
special regulations and policies of particular States upon
the subject of the carrier's liability for loss or damage to
interstate shipments and the contracts of carriers with
respect thereto, have been superseded.' It is true that in
that case the inclusion of the attorney's fee not exceeding
$20 in the costs upon judgments for certain small claims
was upheld although incidentally including some claims
arising out of interstate commerce. But apart from the
effect being only incidental the ground relied upon was
that the statute did not 'in anywise enlarge . . . the
responsibility of the carrier' for losb or 'at all affect the
ground of recovery, or the measure of recovery,' pp. 420,
422. The South-Carolina Act, on the other hand extends
the liability to losses on other roads in other jurisdictions
and increases it by a fine difficult to escape. It overlaps
the Federal act in respect of the subjects, the grounds, and
the extent of liability for loss. We leave on one side the
remote analogies put forward in the decision of the state
Court as in our opinion the cases and principle to which we
have referred are sufficient and direct. We should add
that the item for overcharges also falls under the act of
Congress, § 2, as it now stands, since that section makes
the receiving of greater compensation than is received from
others for similar services an unjust and unlawful dis'

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

crimination. The penalty, the only matter that we are
considering, was exacted for a failure to pay both claims,
within forty days, irrespective of the question whether
adequate investigation had been possible, as required by
the Interstate Commerce Commission's rulings, Nos. 462,
236 and 68.
It is suggested that the act is in aid of interstate commerce. The state law was not contrived in aid of the.
policy of Congress, but to enforce a state policy differently
conceived; and the fine of $50 is enough to constitute a
burden. Southern Ry. v. Reid, 222 U. S. 424, 443. But
that is immaterial. When Congress has taken the particular subject-matter in hand coincidence is as ineffective
as opposition, and a state law is not to be declared a help
because it attempts to go farther than Congress has seen
fit to go. Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Ry. v. Hardwick
Elevator Co., 226 U. S. 426, 435. Southern Railway v.
Indiana Railroad Commission, 236 U. S. 439, 446, 447.
The legislation is not saved by calling it an exercise of the
police power, or by the proviso in the Carmack Amendment saving the rights of holders of bills of lading under
existing law. Adams Express Co. v. Croninger, 226 U. S.
491, 506, 507.
Judgment reversed.

