OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

237 U. S.

payment by levy and sale. The laws of the United States,
however, intervened and gave to the defendant a means of
preventing immediate collection and possibly of defeating
the judgment. 'This delay,-which was helpful to the
defendant,-was granted by a Federal statute on condition -that he would file a bond with surety conditioned to
pay the plaintiff in the event the defendant failed to make
good his appeal. If that appeal was not made good the
plaintiff's right of action likewise arose out of a Federal
statute. A court of the United States had jurisdiction to
determine whether there had been a breach of the condition and, if so, the extent of plaintiff's rights and of the
defendant's liability under such law. The judgment of
the District Court is
Affirmed.

KNAPP v. ALEXANDER-EDGAR LUMBER
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE 'CIRCUIT COURT OF BAYFIELD COUNTY, STATE
OF WISCONSIN.
No. 139.

Submitted January 18, 1915.-Decided April 5, 1915.

An entryman's interest prior to actual possession is more than mere
color of title. From the time of the entry the homesteader has the
right of possession' as against trespassers and all others except the
United States.
The title of a homesteader, while inchoate, is subject to be defeated
only by his failure to comply with the requirements of the statute,
and so long as he complies therewith he has an inceptive title sufficient as against third parties to support suits in equity or at law.
A homesteader has a preferential right to the land, and when he receives a patent vesting in him the complete legal title it relates
back to the date of the initiatory act so as to cut off intervening

claimants.

KNAPP v. ALEXANDER CO.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Under special circumstances such as are present in this case, a homesteader may maintain an action for trespass against one cutting
timber on the land entered and recover from the wrongdoer and.,
retain for his own use the value of that which has been taken notwithstanding the trespasser has settled with the Government and
paid an amount in satisfaction for the timber taken.
Although, until patent issues, the land entered is under the control of
the Land Department, the power of that Department is not unlimited
or arbitrary and cannot be exercised without notice to the homesteader and opportunity to be heard; and it is open to the homesteader to seek redress in the courts for wrong done to his interests
by an unwarranted compromise.
In this case the facts do not show knowledge on the homesteader's
part of the facts sufficient to charge him with ratification, and
quwre whether ratification can be inferred from a mere demand on
his part without benefits accruing to him as the result thereof.
Qvwre as to the right of the trespasser against whom judgment is
rendered in such a case to require from the homesteader an assignment of his claim against the Government for the amount collected
by it in settlement of the trespass.
Judgment based on 145 Wisconsin, 528, reversed.
THE facts, which involve the rights of a homestead
after entry and before patent as against trespassers, are
stated in the opinion.

Mr. H. H. Grace, Mr. Geo. B. Hudnall and Mr. C. R.
Fridley for plaintiff in error.
Mr. C. B. Bird, Mr. M. B. Rosenberry, Mr. A. L. Kreutzer and Mr. J. J. Okoneski for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was brought in the Circuit Court of Bayfield County, Wisconsin, by plaintiff in error, to recover
damages for timber cut and removed from his land and
converted into lumber by defendant. The Circuit Court
rendered judgment for plaintiff, but the Supreme Court
of the State reversed this (145 Wisconsin, 528), and re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

manded the cause with directions to enter judgment in
favor of defendant, and this having been done, the case
'comes here upon questions concerning the nature of an
entryman's title under the homestead laws of the United
States. Rev. Stat., U. S., §§ 2289, et seq.
The facts as found by the trial court, whose findings
were adopted by the Supreme Court, are as follows: Prior
to February 20, 1902, the land in question, being a tract
of 160 acres situate in Bayfield County, Wisconsin, was
public land subject to homestead entry under the laws
of the United States. On the date mentioned, pursuant
to § 2289 et seq., plaintiff duly made application for a
homestead entry of this land at the local land office, filed
the proper affidavit, paid the Register and Receiver's fees,
and obtained a certificate of the entry and a Receiver's
receipt. On February 26 he made and filed the non-saline
affidavit required by law. On April 5 he went upon the
land temporarily, found employ~s of defendant cutting
timber thereon, and forbade their cutting ahy more. On
July 1, and within six months after the making of the entry, he established his actual residence in a house upon the
land, and resided upon and cultivated the land continuously thereafter, in accordance with the laws of the
United States, for a term of five years. On August 5,
1907, he made his final proof, and a Receiver's final receipt
was issued to him. On January 22, 1908, he received a'
patent, and ever since then has been the owner of the land
in fee. On and between March 20 and April 7, 1902, defendant by its agents entered upon the land and cut and
removed therefrom, willfully, unlawfully, and without
authority, 49,190 feet of pine timber. Thereafter a special
agent of the United States investigated the trespass, and
reported the amount thereof to the Secretary of the Interior, together with a proposition of settlement made by
defendant after the trespass had been estimated, and
accompanied by a certified check for $320.14. Upon the

KNAPP v. ALEXANDER CO.
237 U S.

Opinion of the Court.

basis of this report, which stated that the trespass was
unintentional, the Secretary of the Interior in July, 1903,
treating the amount offered as the measure of damages due
to the Government underthe ruling in Wooden-Ware Co. v.
United States, 106 U. S. 432, accepted the proposition of
settlement, and'the money was deposited in the treasury
of the United States as received "on account of depredations upon the public timber." There is nothing in the
pleadings or findings to show that plaintiff was a party
to. this settlement, or had any notice of it, although his
entry was then, and had been at the time the timber was
cut, in full force. After -he ieceived his patent, he demanded said. sum of $320:14 fron the Government, but
the demand was refused. In fact, the cutting of the
49,190 feet of pine timber from the land in question by
defendant was not done by mistake, and defendant did
not at or before the time of the service 6f its answer in the
actipn, serve'upon plaintiff an affidavit that the cutting
was done by mistake, or offer to .submit to judgment in
any sum, as provided by § 4269, Wisconsin Stats. 1898.
The stumpage value of the timber was $5 per thousand;
its highest market value before the trial and while in possession of defendant was $12 per thousand; and upon the
latter basis the trial judge gave judgment in favor of the
plaintiff for $714.87, which included interest from the date
of the patent; the court holding that defendant's settlement with the Government was of no effect as against
plaintiff.
Section 4269, Wisconsin Stats. 1898, provides: "In all
actions to recover the possession or value of logs, timber
or lumber Wrongfully cut upon the land of the plaintiff, or
to recover damages for such trespass the highest market
value of such logs, timber or lumber, in whatsoever place,
shape or condition, manufactured or unmanufactured, the
saine shall have been, at' any time before the trial, while
in the possession of the trespasser or any purchaser from

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

K m with notice, shall be found or awarded to the plaintiff,
if;he succeed, except as in this section provided." The
other provisions here referred to cover cases where the
ct tting was done by mistake or under bona fide claim of
tiAe. In view of the findings, they have no bearing upon
the, present case.
The Supreme Court held that since at the time of the
cutting the plaintiff was not in actual possession of the
land, his right of action, as in trespass quare clausumfregit,
must depend upon constructive possession, to be established by showing a good title; that notwithstanding
plaintiff's homestead entry, there was, for timber cutting
prior to the time of his actual entry into possession of the
land, only a single right of action, and this was for the
benefit of the United States as legal owner, to the exclusion
of the entryman; and that, consequently, the settlement
between defendant and the Government was a complete
defense to plaintiff's action. The court seems to have
regarded the entryman, prior to the taking of actual possession, as having no more than color of title, and, while
recognizing that th6 equitable doctrine of relation is applicable also to proceedings at law, held that this had no
effect as against the claim of the United States, and when
this was satisfied all claim for damages by reason of the
timber cutting became extinguished, and the issuance of a
patent could not revive it.
Laying aside for the moment the effect of the settlement,
it is, we think, erroneous to regard the entryman's interest.
prior to actual possession as being nothing more than a
color of title. From the making of his entry the homesteader has the right of possession as against trespassers
and all others except the United States; he has also an
inchoate title, subject to be defeated only by failure on
bis part to comply with the requirements of the homestead
law as to settlement and cultivation. So long as he complies with these laws in the course of earning a complete

K14APP v. ALEXANDER CO.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

right to the lands as against the Government he has a
substantial inceptive title, sufficient as against third parties to support suits in equity or at law. United States v.
Buchanan, 232 U. S. 72, 76, 77; Gauthierv. Morrison, 232
U. S. 452, 460-462; and cases cited.
The homesteader has a preferential right to the land,
and in order to give effect to this according to the spirit
of the laws it must be and is held that when he has fulfilled the conditions imposed upon him and receives a
patent vesting in him the complete legal title, this title
relates back to the date of the initiatory act, so as to cut
off intervening claimants. Shepley v. Cowan, 91 U. S.
330, 337, 338; Landes v. Brant, 10 How. 348, 372; Lessee
of French v. Spencer, 21 How. 228, 240; Beard v. Federy,
3 Wall. 478, 491; Grisar v. McDowell, 6 Wall. 363, 380;
Stark v. Starrs, 6 Wall. 402, 418; Lynch v. Bernal, 9 Wall.
315, 325; Gibson v. Chouteau, 13 Wall. 92, 101; United
States v. Anderson, 194 U. S. 394, 398; United States v.
Detroit Lumber Co., 200 U. S. 321, 334, 335. In Gibson v.
Chouteau, 13 Wall. 92, 100, the court, by Mr. Justice
Field, said: "By the doctrine of relation is meant that
principle by which an act done at one time is considered
by a fiction of law to have been done at some antecedent
period. It is usually applied where several proceedings
are essential to complete a particular transaction, such as
a conveyance or deed. The last proceeding which consummates the conveyance is held for certain purposes to
take effect by relation as of the day when the first proceeding was had." The present question was very fully
considered by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth
Circuit in Peyton v. Desmond, 129 Fed. Rep. 1, 11, 13. In
that case timber was severed from the land after the initiation and during the maintenance of plaintiff's homestead
claim, and an action brought after patent issued was sustained,' the court saying: "It does not comport with the
spirit of the homestead law to say that, after the initiation

OCTO3ER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

and partial perfection of a homestead claim, some third
person may rob the land of a substantial part of that which
gives it value, and that, on full compliance with the law by
the homestead claimant, the government may convey to
him that which is left of the land, and may recover from
the wrongdoer, and retain to its own use, the value of that
which has been unlawfully taken from the land through
no fault or wrongful act of the homestead claimant."
Is the case altered by the fact that after the trespass, and
before plaintiff received the patent, defendant settled with
the representatives of the Government and paid an
amount agreed upon as a satisfaction of the Government's
claim? In considering this question it is essential to bear
in mind that the trespass was in fact willful, and not attributable to mistake; that at the time of the trespass defendant had constructive if not actual notice of plaintiff's
homestead entry; that when it made the 'settlement with
the Government over a year later, plaintiff was in possession of the land as a homestead settler and defendant
had actual notice of his rights; that the compromise was
made without notie to him, and was voluntarily made
upon the basis of a report of a special agent to the effect
that the trespass was unintentional, when defendant knew
the fact to be otherwise; and that whether the trespass
was unintentional or willful had a most material bearing
upon the amount of damages recoverable, as well upon
general principles (Wooden-Ware Co. v. United States, 106
U. S. 432) as under § 4269, Wisconsin Stat. What would
have been the effect of a compromise made with the consent of plaintiff or after notice to him and an opportunity
for a hearing, we do not need to say, for no such question
is presented. But we think it follows from principles well
established that defendant cannot set up the settlement
made under the circumstances here disclosed and without
notice to plaintiff, holder of an inceptive title to the land.
Although until patent issues the homestead is under the

KNAPP v. ALEXANDER CO.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

control of the Land Department, which may for sufficient
reasons even cancel the entry, yet this power .is not unlimited or arbitrary, nor can it be exercised without notice
to the homesteader with opportunity for a hearing. Cornelius v. Kessel, 128 U. S. 456, 461; Barden v. Northern
Pacific R. R., 154 U. 8. 288, 326; Michigan Land Co. v.
Rust, 168 U. S. 589, 592; GuarantySavings Bank v. Bladow,
176 U. S. 448, 453, 454; Hawley v. Diller, 178 U. S. 476,
489; Thayer v. Spratt, 189 U. S. 346, 351; United States
v. Detroit Lumber Co., 200 U. S. 321, 338. We think there
is no difference in principle that'will uphold as against the
entryman a release or compromise by the Land Department, without notice to him, of a substantial right of
action against a trespasser, to the benefits of which the
entryman is entitled. Therefore, when the patent has
issued and the jurisdiction of the officers of the Land Department is thus terminated, we think it is open to the
homesteader to seek redress in the courts for wrongs done
to his interest by such an unwarranted compromise, as
for other legal errors committed in the course of administration. Moore v. Robbins, 96 U. S. 530, 533; United
States v. Schurz, 102 U. S. 378, 396 et seq.; Smelting Co. v.
Kemp, 104 U. S. 636, 640, 645; Michigan Land Co. v.
Rust, 168 U. S. 589, 592; Brown v. Hitchcock, 173 U. S.
473) 478; Guaranty Savings Bank v. Bladow, 176 U. S.448,
454. And where, as here, the departmental action complained of has substantially impaired the value of the
homestead entry, and has been taken wholly without
notice to the entryman, it constitutes no bar to judicial
proceedings otherwise properly maintainable by him
against the trespasser after receipt of his patent.
It is no answer to say that the legal right of action for a
trespass to unoccupied lands resides in the owner of the
legal title as being constructively in possession. Defendant did not pay the Government under compulsion
of a suit or judgment in trespass, but, for reasons of its

OCTOBER TERM, 1014.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

own, voluntarily undertook to compromise the matter. In
doing this, it could not properly rely upon restrictions
peculiar to the action of trespass, but must take account of
pertinent legal rights and obligations, however arising.
Hence it was bound at its peril to recognize. the beneficial
nature of the homesteader's interest, at least to the extent
of seeing that his rights were not cut off without notice.
Defendant knew, when it made the compromise, or with
proper inquiry would have known, that plaintiff was in
possession under a homestead entry that antedated the
trespass; that his patent, if and when issued, would relate
back to the time of his entry; and that the officials of the
Land Department could not lawfully take action substantially impairing the value of his entry, without notice
to him and an opportunity to be heard. It results, in our
opinion, that a voluntary compromise made with those
officials without notice to the homesteader, and upon a
basis that, as defendant knew, did not afford full legal
compensation for the injury done, cannot be invoked by
defendant to his detriment.
To the suggestion that plaintiff has ratified the compromise, because, after he received his patent, he unsuccessfully demanded from the Government the sun of
$320.14, received by it in settlement from defendant, it is
sufficient to say that it is not found that he did this with
full knowledge of the facts. Whether ratification could
be inferred from plaintiff's mere demand, without benefit
accruing to him as the result of it, we do not stop to consider.
We therefore hold that the Supreme Court of Wisconsin
erred in denying a recovery to plaintiff, whether because
of the incomplete nature of his title and his want of possession at the time of the trespass, or because of the settlement afterwards made between the Government and defendant.
We are not called upon to consider whether plaintiff

REINMAN v. LITTLE ROCK.
237 U. S.

Syllabus.

could recover from the United States by a suit in the
Court of Claims the amount received from defendant in
the compromise (United States v. Jones, 131 U. S. 1;
United States v. Anderson, 194 U. S. 394), because upon
the facts as found plaintiff is entitled to recover a larger
amount and upon a different basis of fact from that which
controlled in the compromise; and defendant as the wrongdoer cannot put upon plaintiff the burden of prosecuting
two actions to recover compensation for a single wrong.
Our decision, however, is without prejudice to action by
the Wisconsin courts requiring that plaintiff, upon obtaining judgment against defendant in accordance with
the principles above declared, and as a condition to payment of that judgment by defendant, shall assign to defendant his claim against the Government, or, upon being
properly indemnified, shall agree to permit defendant to
use his name in proceedings to recover the money. We
intend no intimation respecting the effect, if any, of § 3477,
Rev. Stat., upon such an assignment.
Judgment reversed, and the cause remanded for further
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.

REINMAN v. CITY OF LITTLE ROCK.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS.
No. 153.

Argued January 22, 1915.-Decided April 5, 1915.

The decision of the state court of last resort that a municipal ordinance is within the scope of the power conferred on the municipal-

ity by the legislature is conclusive upon this court.
Where the state court has held that an ordinance is within the power
conferred on the municipality it must be regarded as a state law
within the meaning of the Federal Constitution.
Any enactment, from whatever source originating, to which a State gives

