OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

237 U. S.

Interior Department, which are called to our attention
by the Government, show that that Department has uniformly required the interest of minors to be represented
by the natural guardian, which in this case was the mother.
There is no court to which they could have applied for the
judicial appointment of a guardian, and we see no reason
to question the legality of the practice of the Department
in this respect. A communication from the Acting Commissioner of Indian Affairs, attached to the Government's
brief, declares that that office and the Interior Department

have uniformly held that the natural guardian could
execute valid relinquishments in behalf of minor children,
and we see no reason why this authority should be questioned.
We reach the conclusion that the Court of Appeals did
not err in affirming the judgment of the Circuit Court,
and its judgment is accordingly
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in this decision.

SLIGH v. KIRKWOOD, SHERIFF OF ORANGE
COUNTY, FLORIDA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF FLORIDA.

No. 185.

Argued March 9, 10, 1915.-Decided April 5, 1915.

It is within the police power of the State to make it a criminal offense
to deliver for shipment in interstate commerce citrus fruits then and
there immature and unfit for consumption.
While Congres has exclusive power to regulate interstate commerce,
and the State may not, when Congress has exerted that power, in-

SLIGH v. KIRKWOOD.
237 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

terfere therewith, even in the otherwise just exercise of its police
power, the State may in such a case act until Congress does exert
its authority, even though interstate commerce may be incidentally
affected.
Limitations on the police power are hard to define; in its broadest
sense that power includes all legislation and almost every function
of civil government; it embraces regulations designed to protect and
promote public convenience, property, welfare, safety and health.
This court takes judicial notice of the fact that the raising of citrus
fruits is one of the great industries of the State of Florida.
A State may protect its reputation in foreign markets by prohibiting
the exportation of its products in such an improper form as would
have a detrimental effect on its reputation.
This court will not consider the effect of a construction of a statute
prohibiting the exportation of fruit when immature and unfit for
consumption as food as prohibiting its export while immature for
other commercial purposes than that of food until the state court has
so construed it.
The provisions in the Federal Food and Drugs Act relating to shipment in interstate commerce of fruit in filthy, decomposed, or putrid
condition do not apply to fruit unfit for consumption because green
or immature. Congress has not covered the latter field.
Chap. 6236, ยง 1, Laws of Florida, of 1911, prohibiting the delivery for
shipment of citrus fruits immature or otherwise unfit for consumption is not unconstitutional as an attempt to regulate interstate
commerce.
65 Florida, 123, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality under
the commerce clause of the Federal Constitution of a
statute of Florida prohibiting the sale or shipment of
citrus fruits which are immature or otherwise unfit for
consumption, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Charles B. Robinson, with whom Mr. E. J. L'Engle
was on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
Section 1 of Chapter 6236, in so far as the same applies
to interstate shipments, is in conflict with and contravenes ยง 8, Art. I, of the Federal Constitution, which provides that Congress shall have the power to regulate

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

237 U. S.

commerce with foreign nations and among the several
States and with the Indian tribes.
The plaintiff in error was not and could not legally be
held in custody for the alleged violation of that act, upon
and for an alleged shipment of citrus fruits out of and
beyond the limits of the State, the validity of said section
being denied and drawn in question on the ground that it
is repugnant to and in contravention of the commerce
clause of the Federal Constitution.
In support of these contentions, see Stone v. Mississippi,
101 U. S. Sup. Ct. 814; Adams Expr. Co. v. New York,
232 U. S. 14; Kansas City &c. Ry. v. Kaw Valley District,
233 U. S. 75; Leisy v. Harden, 135 U. S. 100; S. C., 34 Law
Ed. 128; Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352; Bowman
v. Chi. & N. W. R. R., 125 U. S. 479; Vermont v. Peet,
80 Vermont, 449; S. C., 68 Atl. Rep. 661; S. C., 14 L. R. A.
N. S. 677.
Mr. Charles B. Parkhillfor defendant in error:
Section 1, Chapter 6236 of the Laws of Florida, 1911, is
constitutional and a valid exercise of the police power of
the State. It is designed to promote the public health,
and the police power of the State embraces regulations
for that purpose. Wilkerson v. Roher, 140 U. S. 545.
The regulation of food stuff has in view the protection
of health. Freund Police Power, Chapter 28, 232.
The term "provisions" means "food." Oranges are
highly nutritious and are food. State v. Angello, 71 N. H.
224; 6 Words & Phrases, 5754.
Any substance which, taken into the body, is capable
of sustaining or nourishing the living is food. 13 Am. &
Eng. Encl. (2d ed.) 729; 3 Words & Phrases, 2856; Arbuckle v. Blackburn, 113 Fed. Rep. 616, 622.
The term "fruit" includes oranges. Humphreys v.
Union Ins. Co., 12 Fed. Cas. 876, 880; 4 Words & Phrases,
2994.

SLIGH v. KIRKWOOD.
237 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

One of the informations filed against the plaintiff in
error, covers citrus fruits, which are not only immature,
but otherwise unfit for consumption. Clearly this statute
is designed to protect the public health. People v. Chiperly, 101 N. Y. 634.
The statute is not in contravention of the commerce
clause of the Federal Constitution. It does not seek to
limit, regulate and control interstate commerce.
To constitute interstate commerce there must be an
article or commodity, the subject of commerce, and destined to pass from one State to 'another. Only such
commodities as may lawfully become the subjects of
purchase, sale or exchange, are articles of interstate commerce, within the protection of the commerce clause of
the Constitution. Turner v. Maryland, 107 U. S. 17.
The State of Florida has a right to say what shall be
lawful, merchantable citrus fruits.
Articles which, on account of their existing condition,
would bring and spread disease or pestilence, and meats
or other provisions unfit for human use, are not legitimate
subjects of trade and commerce, and are not within the
protection of the commerce clause of the Constitution,
but fall within the police power of the State. 17 Am. &
Eng. Encl. (2d ed.) 67, 68.
When the legislature of Florida prohibits the sale or
shipment of immature citrus fruits, or fruits unfit for
consumption, it thereby prevents said citrus fruits from
becoming an article of interstate commerce. People v.
Hesterberg, 211 U. S. 31; Dent v. West Virginia, 129 U. S.
114; Plumley v. Massachusetts, 155 U. S. 461; Purity
Extract Co. v. Lynch, 226 U. S. 192; State v. Harrub, 95
Alabama, 176.
The power of Congress to regulate interstate commerce
does not interfere with the right of the State to prohibit
its own property from becoming an article or commodity
of interstate commerce, and a statute may take private

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

237 U. S.

property out of the commerce clause of the Constitution,
may outlaw such private property, if it be inherently bad
or liable to affect the health, prosperity or welfare of the
people of the State.
The police power of a State embraces regulations designed to promote the public convenience or the general
prosperity or the public welfare, as well as those designed
to promote the public safety or the public health. Chicago,
B. & Q. R. R. v. Drainage Com'rs, 200 U. S. 561; Lake
Shore Ry. v. Ohio, 173 U. S. 285; Atlantic Coast Line v.
Coachman, 59 Florida, 130; Commonwealth v. Savage, 29
N. E. Rep. 468.
Where a law is for the protection of life, liberty and
prosperity or the general welfare, there is no limitation
upon the power of the legislature except as is found in the
Constitution. Hawthorn v. People, 109 Illinois, 302.
The police power extends to regulations to preserve the
reputation of the States in foreign markets. Freund, Police Power, ยง 276; Critsman v. Northup, 8 Cow. (N. Y.) 46.
The legislature may have known that immature citrus
fruits, or citrus fruits unfit for consumption, shipped
beyond the limits of the State of Florida would destroy
the reputation of this important product of the State in
the markets of the world. The legislature may have
also known that the taking of immature citrus fruits
from the trees would injure the trees and thus hurt the
prosperity of the people of the State. The legislature
may have known that the sale of immature oranges might
cause the sale of immature and poor seed for the planting
of orange groves, and thus hurt the prosperity of the State.
Plumley v. Massachusetts, 155 U. S. 461; Sherlock v. Alling,
93 U. S. 99; Dent v. West Virginia, 129 U. S. 114.
The provisions of the act of 1911 bear a reasonable
relation to the evil sought to be cured, and this court will
uphold same. Eubank v. Richmond, 226 U. S. 137.
State v. Peet, 80 Vermont, 449, distinguished.

SLIGH v. KIRKWOOD.
237 U.. S.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

A statute of the State of Florida undertakes to make it
unlawful for anyone to sell, offer for sale, ship, or deliver
for shipment, any citrus fruits which are immature or
otherwise unfit for consumption.'
Plaintiff in error, S. J. Sligh, was charged by information
containing three counts in the Criminal Court of Record
in Orange County, Florida, with violation of this statute.
One of the counts charged that Sligh delivered to an agent
of the Seaboard Air Line Railway Company, a common
carrier, for shipment to Winecoff & Adams, Birmingham,
Alabama, one car of oranges, which were citrus fruits,
then and there immature and unfit for consumption.
Upon petition for writ of habeas corpus in the Circuit
Court of Florida for Orange County, the court refused to
order the release of Sligh, and remanded him to the custody
of the Sheriff. Upon writ of error to the Supreme Court
of Florida, that judgment was affirmed (65 Florida, 123),
and the case is brought here.
The single question is: Was it within the authority of
the State of Florida to make it a criminal offense to deliver
for shipment in interstate commerce citrus fruits,-oranges
in this case,-then and there immature and unfit for consumption?
It will be observed that the oranges must not only be
immature, but they must be in such condition as renders
I "Section 1. That it shall be unlawful for any one to sell, offer for
sale, ship or deliver for shipment any citrus fruits which are immature
or otherwise unfit for consumption, and for any one to receive any such
fruits under a contract of sale, or for the purpose of sale, or of offering
for sale, or for shipment or delivery for shipment. This section shall
not apply to sales or contracts for sale of citrus fruits on the trees under
this section; nor shall it apply to common carriers or their agents
who are not interested in such fruits and who are merely receiving the
same for transportation." Chap. 6236, Laws of Florida of 1911.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

them unfit for consumption; that is, giving the words their
ordinary signification, unfit to be used for food. Of course,
fruits of this character, in that condition, may be deleterious to the public health, and, in the public interest, it
may be highly desirable to prevent their shipment and
sale. Not disputing this, the contention of the plaintiff
in error is that the statute contravenes the Federal Constitution in that the legislature has undertaken to pass a
law beyond the power of the State, because of the exclusive control of Congress over commerce among the States,
under the Federal Constitution.
That Congress has the exclusive power to regulate
interstate commerce is beyond question, and when that
authority is exerted by the State, even in the just exercise
of the police power, it may not interfere with the supreme
authority of Congress over the subject; while this is true,
this court from the beginning has recognized that there
may be legitimate action by the State in the matter of
local regulation, which the State may take until Congress
exercises its authority upon the subject. This subject
has been so frequently dealt with in decisions of this court
that an extended review of the authorities is unnecessary.
See the Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352.
While this proposition seems to be conceded, and the
competency of the State to provide local measures in the
interest of the safety and welfare of the people is not
doubted, although such regulations incidentally and indirectly involve interstate commerce, the contention is
that this statute is not a legitimate exercise of the police
power, as it has the effect to protect the health of people
in other States who may receive the fruits from Florida
in a condition unfit for consumption; and however commendable it may be to protect the health of such foreign
peoples, such purpose is not within the police power of
the State.
The limitations upon the police power are hard to define,

SLIGH v. KIRKWOOD.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and its far-reaching scope has been recognized in many
decisions of this court. At an early day it was held to
embrace every law or statute which concerns the whole or
any part of the people, whether it related to their rights or
duties, whether it respected them as men or citizens of the
State, whether in their public or private relations, whether
it related to the rights of persons or property of the public
or any individual within the State. Now York v. Miln, 11
Pet. 102, 139. The police power, in its broadest sense, includes all legislation and almost. every function of civil
government. "Barbier v. Connolly, 113 U. S. 27. It is
not subject to definite, limitations, butis coextensive with
the necessities of the case and the safeguards of public
interest. Camfield v. United Stales, 167 U. S. 518, 524.
It embraces regulations designed to promote public convenience or the general prosperity or welfare, as well as
those specifically intended to promote the public safety
or the public health. Chicago &c. Railway v. Drainage
Commissioners, 200 U. S. 561, 592. In one of the latest
utterances of this court upon the subject, it was said:
"Whether it is a valid exercise of the police power is a
question in the case, and that power we have defined, as
far as it is capable of being defined by general words, a
number of times. It is not susceptible of circumstantial
precision. It extends, we have said, not only to regulations which promote the public health, morals, and safety,
but to those which promote the, public convenience or
the general prosperity.

.

.

.

And further, 'It is the

most essential of powers, at times the most insistent,
and always one of the least limitable of the powers of
government."' Eubank v. Richmond, 226 U. S. 137,
142.

The power of the State to prescribe regulations which
shall prevent the production within its bor'dlcs of impure
foods, unfit for use, and such articles as would spread
disease and pestilenct, is well established. Such articles,

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

it has been declared by this court, are not the legitimate
subject of trade or commerce, nor within the protection
of the commerce clause of the Constitution. "Such articles are not merchantable; they are not legitimate subjects of trade and commerce. They may be rightly outlawed as intrinsically and directly the immediate sources
and causes of destruction to human health and life. The
self-protecting power of each State, therefore, may be
rightfully exerted against their introduction, and such
exercises of power cannot be considered regulations of
commerce prohibited by the Constitution." Bowman v.
Railway Company, 125 U. S. 465, 489.
Nor does it make any difference that such regulations
incidentally affect interstate commerce, when the object
of the regulation is not to that end, but is a legitimate
attempt to protect the people of the State. In Geer v.
Connecticut, 161 U. S. 519, a conviction was sustained of
one who was charged with having in his possession game
birds, killed within the State, with the intention of procuring transportation of the same beyond state limits.
This law was attacked upon the ground that it was a
direct attempt to regulate commerce among the States.
After discussing the peculiar nature of such property,
and the power of the State over it, this court said (p. 534):
"Aside from the authority of the State, derived from the
common ownership of game and the trust for the benefit
of its people which the State exercises in relation thereto,
there is another view of the power of the State in regard
to the property in game, which is equally conclusive.
The right to preserve game flows from the undoubted
existence in the State of a police power to that end, which
may be none the less efficiently called into play, because
by doing so interstate commerce may be remotely and
indirectly affected. Kidd v. Pearson, 128 U. S. 1; Hall v.
De Cuir, 95 U. S. 485; Sherlock v. Ailing, 93 U. S. 99, 103;
Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1." In New York, ex rel. Dilz

SLIGH v. KIRKWOOD.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

v. Hesterberg, 211 U. S. 31, it was held that the State
might punish the sale of imported game during the closed
season in New York, notwithstanding such game was imported from abroad, and was thus beyond the control of
the State, the law being sustained upon the ground that,
while foreign commerce was incidentally affected, the
State might prohibit the sale of such game in order to
protect local game during the closed season; and to make
such regulations effective required the prohibition of the
sale of all game of that kind.
So it may be taken as established that the mere fact
that interstate commerce is indirectly affected will not
prevent the State from exercising its police power, at
least until Congress, in. the exercise of its supreme authority, regulates the subject. Furthermore, this regulation
cannot be declared invalid if within the range of the police
power, unless it can be said that it has no reasonable
relation to a legitimate purpose to be accomplished in its
enactment; and whether such regulation is necessary in
the public interest is primarily within the determination
of the legislature, assuming the subject to be a proper
matter of state regulation.
Wd may take judicial notice of the fact that the raising
of citrus fruits is one of the great industries of the State of
Florida. It was competent for the legislature to find that
it was essential for the success of that industry that its
reputation be preserved in other States wherein such fruits
find their most extensive market. The shipment of fruits,
so immature as to be unfit for consumption, and consequently injurious to the health of the purchaser, would
not be otherwise than a serious injury to the local trade,
and would certainly affect the successful conduct of such
business within the State. The protection of the State's
reputation in foreign markets, with the consequent beneficial effect upon a great home industry, may have been
within the legislative intent, and it certainly could noL be

O-TOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

said that this legislation has no reasonable relation to the
accomplishment of that purpose.
As to the suggestion that the shipment of such fruit
may be legitimately made for commercial purposes, for
the purpose of making wine, citric acid, and possibly
,other articles, it is sufficient to say that this case does not
present any such state of facts, and of course the constitutional, objection must be considered in view of the case
made before the court, which was a delivery for shipment
of oranges so immature as to be unfit for consumption.
Whether such a case' as supposed, of shipment for commercial purposes, would be within the- statute, would be
primarily for. the state court to determine, and it is not
for us to say, as no such case is here presented.
It is pointed out in the opinion of the Supreme Court of
Florida, and we repeat here, that no act of Congress has
been called to our attention undertaking to regulate
shipments of this character, which would be contravened
by the act in question. As the Florida court says, the
sixth subdivision of the Food and Drutgs Act, if citrus
fruits should be held to be within the prohibitions against
vegetable substances, includes only such as are in whole
or in part filthy, decomposed or putrid. Green or immature fruit, equally deleterious to health, does not seem
to be within the Federal act. Therefore until Congress
does legislate upon the subject, the State is free to enter
the field. Savage v. Jones, 225 U. S. 501.
In the Vermont Case, referred to by counsel for plaintiff
in error, State of Vermont v. Peet, 80 Vermont, 449, the
act made it unlawful to ship without the State veal less
than four weeks old when killed, and 'it was held to run
counter to the Federal act and regulation upon the same
subject.
We find no error in the judgment of the Supreme Court
of Florida, and it is
Affirmed.

