OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD COMPANY v. KEYSTONE ELEVATOR AND WAREHOUSE COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 683.

Argued April 24, 1915.-Decided May 10, 1915.

In a suit against a carrier for services for handling grain through plaintiff's elevators, the referee rejected evidence as to the ownership
of almost the entire stock of the elevator company by a member of
the firm which shipped the grain, and also an opinion of the Interstate
Commerce Commission of later date than the services rendered: held
that as the offer of evidence did not bring in the Act to Regulate
Commerce and allege that the plaintiff was merely acting as a tool
for the shipper to obtain rebates, the action was merely one for services, and, no Federal question being involved, this court has no jurisdiction under ยง 237, Judicial Code, to review the judgment of the
state court.
Writ of error to review 246 Pa. St. 336, dismissed.

THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court
to review judgments of the state court under ยง 237,
Judicial Code, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. M. Hampton Todd for defendant in error in support of the motion
Mr. John Hampton Barnes for plaintiff in error in
opposition to the motion.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is a suit by the defendant in error to recover reasonable compensation for services rendered in handling grain
through its elevators. The plaintiff proved to the sat-

PENNA. R. R. v. KEYSTONE ELEVAT(JR.
237 U. S.

433

Opinion of the-Court.

isfaction of the referee to whom the parties agreed to
submit the case that thirty-five cents a ton, the rate demanded, was a reasonable rate. To meet this the defendant offered to prove that Harvey C. Miller owned 93.6
per cent. of the plaintiff's stock; that he also was a member
of the firm of L. F. Miller & Sons, for which 90 per cent.
of the plaintiff's business now in question was done; that
the grain handled came from other States over the defendant's lines; that competitors of L. F. Miller & Sons
received grain from the same point at the same rate but
did not have any elevator, perform any elevator service
or receive compensation for such service; that the plaintiff's books showed that the plaintiff and Harvey C. Miller
had received from the payments already made by the
defendant and consignees the actual cost of the services
rendered, with a reasonable profit, the defendant contending that further payment would be contrary to the
Act to Regulate Commerce; and finally an opinion and order of the Interstate Commerce Commission of later date
than the service rendered and the bringing of this suit.
This evidence was rejected and the Supreme Court of
Pennsylvania sustained the referee, rightly observing
that the one question before him was what the plaintiff's
services were reasonably worth. 246 Pa. St. 336.
There was no complaint that the rate was unreasonable,
but only a wrong conception of the grounds upon which
an advantage might be pronouiiced undue. There was
no offer to prove that L. F. Miller & Sons were using the
plaintiff as a tool for the purpose of obtaining a rebate.
The offer did not go far enough to bring in the act of
Congress and was not made in an effort to prove that an
unreasonable rate was charged.
Writ of.error dismissed.

VOL. ccxxxvT-28

