74

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

237 U. S.

laws, within the meaning of the Federal Constitution.
We think the action here challenged was based upon real
and substantial differences, and was not that merely
arbitrary classification which this court has condemned
because of the Fourteenth Amendment.
We find no error in the judgment of the Supreme
Court of the State of South Carolina, and the same is
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA v. NOBLE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 127. Argued March 1, 2, 1915.-Decided April 5, 1915.
The Quapaw Indians are still under National tutelage; the guardianship of the United Sthtes continues notwithstanding the citizenship
conferred upon allottees.
W'here Congress has imposed restrictions upon alienation of an allotment, the United States has capacity to sue for the purpose of setting aside conveyances or contracts transferring such restrictions.
Restrictions under the act of March 2, 1895, being for a specified period,
were absolute and bound the land for that period Whether in the
hands of the allottee or his heirs except as to leasing it for the specified terms permitted by the act of June 10, 1896, or by the supplemental act of June 7, 1897; neither of those acts gave the allottee
or his heirs any power to dispose of his'or their interest in the lands
subject to the lease or any part of it,
Assignments of interest in rents and royalties which pertained to the
reversion of the land of 1896 and 1897 are invalid.
Rents and royalties already accrued from lands are personal property,
. but those to accrue are a part of the estate, remaining in the lessor.
"Overlapping leases" of Indian allotments are abnormal and the practice of making them facilitates abuses in dealing with ignorant and
inexperienced Indians.

UNITED STATES v. NOBLE.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The rule that a general powei to lease for not exceeding a specified
period, without saying either in possession or on reversion, only
authorizes a lease in possession and not in futuro, applies to the
power given allottee Indians by the acfs of 1896 and 1897 and leases
made for the full period subject to an existing and partly expired
lease for the sanie number of years are unauthorized and void.
197 Fed. Rep. 292, reversed.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Knacbel, with whom
Mr. S. W. William was on the brief, for the United States.
Mr. A. S. Thompson, Jr., and Mr. V. E. Thompson,
with whom Mr. S. C. Fullerton and Mr. Preston Davis
were on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of the

court.
The Government brings this appeal to review a decree
of the Circuit Court of Appeals, which affirmed a decree
dismissing, upon demurrer, its suitas against the appellees.
197 Fed. Rep. 292.
The suit was instituted against the appellees, and others,
to set aside certain mining leases of an Indian allotment,
and assignments of-rents and royalties, upon the ground
that they were procured in fraud of the allottee, and were
in violation of the restriction against alienation imposed
by Congiess. The land in question had been allotted
to Charley Quapaw Blackhawk, a member of the Quapaw
tribe of Indians, under the act of March 2, 1895, c. 188,
28 Stat. 876, 907. Patent was issued on September 26,
1896. The act of 1895 contained the following restriction:
"Provided That said allotments shall be inalienable for
a peripd of twenty-five years from and after the date of
said patents."

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

By the act of June 10, 1896, c. 398, 29 Stat. 321, 331,
Congress authorized the allottees of lands, within the
limits of the Quapaw Agency, 'to lease the same for a term
not exceeding three years for farming purposes, or five
years for mining or business purposes.' A further authorization-the one here . involved-was made by the
act of June 7, 1897, c. 3, 30 Stat. 62, 72, which was as
follows:
"That the allottees of land within the limits of the
Quapaw Agency, Indian Territory, are hereby authorized
to lease their lands, or any part thereof, for a term not
exceeding three years, for-farming or grazing purposes,
or ten years for mining or business purposes. And said
allottees and their lessees and tenants shall have the right
to employ such assistants, laborers, and help from time
to time as they may deem necessary: Provided, That whenever it shall be made to appear to the Secretary of the
Interior that, by reason of age or disability, any such
allottee cannot improve or manage his allotment properly
and with benefit to himself, the same may be leased, in
the discretion of the Secretary, upon such terms and conditions as shall be prescribed by him. All acts and parts
of acts inconsistent with this are hereby repealed."
The bill alleges that the allottee made the following
mining leases of the allotted lands, and assignments of
rents and royalties, to wit:
(1) Lease, dated January 11, 1902, to A. W. Abrams,
for ten years from date, in consideration of the sum of
$10, and a royalty of five per cent. of the market value
of all minerals mined or removed (except gas, for which
there was to be paid $40 per annum for each paying well),
with the proviso that there should be a minimum rental
of $20 a year in case the royalties did not exceed that
amount. On August 13, 1903, the lease was assigned by
Abrams to the Iowa & Oklahoma Mining Company.
(2) Lease, dated August 24, 1903, to A. W. Abrams,

UNITED STATES v. NOBLE.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

for ten years from date, in consideration of $18, and of
royalties which were the same as in first lease save that
the minimum rental was $21 a year. This lease was
assigned on November 2, 1904, to the Iowa & Oklahoma
Mining Company.
(3) Lease, dated March 25, 1905, to L. C. Jones, and
the appellee A. J. Thompson, for ten years from date,
for $10 and five per cent. royalty. It was stated that the
lease was subject to the first lease above mentioned. The
interest of Jones was assigned to the appellee, A. J.
Thompson,' on July 31, 1905.
(4) Lease, dated April 4, 1905, to the Iowa & Oklahoma
Mining Company, for ten years from date, for $25, with
the same royalties as in the first lease above mentioned and
with minimum rental of $21 a year.
(5) Lease, dated May 12, 1906, to the same company,
for ten years from date and with the same consideration
as that of the lease described in paragraph (4). It was
provided that 'this lease and all former leases above
referred to shall run concurrently,'-the lessee being entitled to elect under which of the leases it would operate.
(6) Lease, dated July 28, 1906, to the same company,
for the term of twenty years from date for $21, with the
same royalties and minimum rental as those reserved in
the preceding lease described in paragraph (5):
(7) Grant or assignment, dated August 16, 1902, to the
appellee, Charles F. Noble, of all the allottee's 'right,
title and interest in and to the royalty, rent and proceeds'
,of thb -mining lease dated January 11, 1902, made to
Abrams, described in paragraph (1). It was further
agreed, by said instrument, that if the Abrams' lease
'should be surrendered and become-void the within lease
should hold good for the period of ten years.' On the'
same date, Noble assigned 'a one-half interest in the
above-described instrument' to John M. Cooper.
(8) Assignment, dated February 21, 1906, to the ap-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

pellees, A. S. Thompson and V. E. Thompson. It recited
a judgment, in a suit against Noble and Cooper, decreeing
that the allottee was the owner 'of two and one-half
percentage of the entire product mined from said land
and sold on or subsequent to the 31st day of January,
1906, and up to and including the l1th day of January,
1912,' and assigned to the above-mentioned appellees
'an undivided onq-half interest in and to the said judgment
for royalties,' that is, 'one and one-quarter per cent. of
the whole product on said lands' during the period covered
by the first lease to Abrams, 'described in paragraph (1).
The bill further averred that the allottee, Charles
Quapaw Blackhawk, was a full blood Indian, born in
1835, unable 'to read, or write, or understand intelligently the English language,' an 'ignorant and uneducated child of nature,' old and infirm, and wholly incapacitated for the transaction of business; that the lands
were worth approximately $100,000; that on January 11,
1902, when the first lease was made, the lands had not been
prospected and the value for mining purposes was uncertain, and that the consideration mentioned in that
lease was 'equitable and sufficient'; that immediately
thereafter, the lessee (the defendant, Abrams) caused
the lands to be drilled and prospected and found 'large,
valuable and paying bodies of lead and zinc ore'; that for
the five years preceding the filing of the bill (July, 1909),
there had been 'a number of concentrating plants or socalled ore mills located upon the said land, and in operation,' and that 'the actual value of the output thereof,
when in operation, was in excess of $50,000 a year; that
in 1905, and before, the defendant Abrams, through
his assignee, the Iowa & Oklahoma Mining Company,
had sublet to other mining companies portions of the
lands in consideration of a royalty of fifteen per cent. of
the market value of the ores mined, which was a reasonable royalty; and that the transactions narrated in the

UNITED STATES v. NOBLE.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

bill (apart from the first lease to Abrams) were 'inequitable and unconscionable' and a fraud upon the allottee.
The validity of the first lease was conceded by the Government, but it was alleged that all the othcr leases and
the assignments were in violation of the express restriction
subject to which the allotment was made.
Demurrers were filed by all the defendants. The Circuit Court held that the Government was not entitled to
impeach the transactions upon the ground of fraud, but
could challenge the validity of the several instruments
as being in violation of the statutory restriction. It is not
important here to consider the disposition made of the
leases described in paragraphs (2), (4), (5), and (6), as
these are not involved in this appeal. It is sufficient to
say that the demurrers of Abrams and the Iowa & Oklahoma Mining Company were overruled, and that those
of the appellees were sustained. United States v. Abrams,
181 Fed. Rep. 847. As to the latter, the bill was dismissed, and the decree to that effect was affirmed by the
Circuit Court of Appeals, as already stated.
We have, then, the question of the validity of the lease
and assignments described in paragraphs (3), (7), and (8).
The Quapaws are still under national tutelage. The
Government maintains an agency and, pursuant to the
treaty of May 13, 1833, 7 Stat. 424, an annual appropriation is made for education and other assistance (37
Stat. 530). In 1893, the Quapaw National Council made
provision for allotments in severalty which were to be
subject to the action of Congress and in. the act of ratification of 1895 Congress imposed the restriction upon
alienation which has been quoted. The guardianship of
the United States continues, notwithstanding the citizenship conferred upon the allottees (United States v.
Celestine, 215 U. S. 278, 291; Tiger v. Western. Investment
Co., 221 U. S. 286, 315, 316; Hallowell v. United Statew,
221 U. S. 317, 324; United States v. Sandoval, 231 U. B.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

28, 48); and, where Congress has imposed restrictions
upon the alienation of an allotment, the United States
.has capacity to sue for the purpose of setting aside conveyances or contracts by which these restrictions have
been transgressed. Heckman v. United States, 224 U. S.
413; Mullen v. United States, 224 U. S. 448, 451; Bowling
v. United States, 233 U. S.528, 534.
1. We may first consider the assignments of rents and
royalties. Under his patent, the allottee took an estate
in fee, subject to the limitation that the land should be
'inalienable for the period of twenty-five years' from date.
This restriction bound the land for the time stated, whether
in the hands of the allottee or his heirs. Bowling v. United
States, supra. It put it beyond the power of him, or of
them, to alienate the land, or any interest therein, in any
manner except as permitted by the acts of 1896 and 1897.
See Taylor v. Parker, 235 U. S.42. The comprehensive.
ness of the restriction was modified only by the power to
lease; and while the allottee could make leases, as provided
in these acts, they gave him no power to dispose of his
interest in the land subject to the lease, or of any part of
it. The rents and royalties were profit issuing out of
the land. When they accrued, they became personal
property; but rents and royalties to accrue were a part
of the estate remaining in the lessor. As such, they would
pass to his heirs, and not to his personal representatives.
1 Washburn on Real Property, *337; Wright v. Williams,
5 Cow. 499. It is true that the owner of the reversion,
when unrestricted in his right to convey, may sever the
rent and grant it separately, but this is by virtue of his freedom to deal with the estate in the land. 2 Bl. Com. *176.
It necessarily follows that the allottee in the present
case having no power to convey his estate in the land
could not pass title to that part of it which consisted of the
rents and royalties. It is said that the leases contemplated
the payment of sums of money, equal to the agreed per-

UNITED STATES v. NOBLE.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

centage of the market value of the minerals and thus
that the assignment was of these moneys; but the fact that
rent is to be paid in money does not make it any the less a
profit issuing out of the land. The further argument
is made that the power to lease should be construed as
implying the power to dispose of the rents to accrue. This
is wholly untenable. The one is in no way involved in the
other; the complete exercise of the authority which the
statute confers would still leave the rents and royalties,
to accrue, as part of the estate remaining in the lessor. It
was the intent of Congress that the allottees during the
period of restriction should be secure in their actual
enjoyment of their interest in the land. Heckman v.
United States, supra. The restriction was removed only

to the extent specified; otherwise, the prohibition against
alienation remained absolute.
The first assignment of royalties, as above described
[paragraph (7)], was made on August 16, 1902, of rents
to accrue under the first lease, of January 11, 1902, which
was to run for ten years. The second assignment made
in January, 1906 [paragraph (8)] was, in substance of
'one and one-quarter per cent. of the whole product on
said lands' until January 11, 1912. Both were assignments
of interests which pertained to the reversion, and both
must be held to be invalid under the statute.
2. The lease, here in controversy, was made on March 25,
1905, for ten years from date [paragraph (3)]. The property was already subject to a lease, concededly valid, for
ten years from January 11, 1902. The lease under which
the appellee claims is what is known as an 'overlapping
lease.' It is not necessary to describe transactions of this
character, for they are abundantly illustrated in the
record which shows that this allottee made six leases of the
same rights in less than five years, each for ten years from
date with the exception of the last which was for twenty
years, and all, reserving substantially the same rents and
VOL.

ccxxxvii-6

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

royalties which were reserved in the first lease at a time
when the property had not been prospected. The practice, to say the least, is an abnormal one, and it requires
no extended discussion to show that it would facilitate
abuses in dealing with ignorant and inexperienced Indians. It is urged, however, that the manner of dealing
with the Indians, in gradually releasing them from guardianship and preparing them for complete independence; is
for Congress to determine; that Congress has in this case
authorized a lease for ten years; that this was a lease for
ten years, and no longer, and hence was within the authority; and that, however wise it might have beefi to
prohibit 'overlapping leases,' Congress did not so provide.
We are of the opinion that this is too short a view. The
question is as to the scope of the authority given by
Congress; that is, whether it did not extend simply to
leases in possession, and should be' taken not to include
'leases in reversion.' The allottee, as we have seen, is
under an absolute restriction with respect to his reversion
for a period of twenty-five years from the date of his
patent. In the light of this restriction, and of the governmental policy which induced it, there is sound reason for
construing the power as not authorizing anything more
than a lease in possession, as well understood in the law.
At common law, as the Government points out, it was the
established doctrine, that a tenant for life with a general.
power to make leases could make only leases in possession,
and not leases in reversion or in futuro. He was not authorized by such a power to make a lease to commence
'after the determination of a lease in being.' Such a
lease was deemed to be 'reversionary.' Countess of Sussex
v. Wroth, Cro. Eliz. 5; Shecomb v. Hawkins, Cro. Jac. 318;
Yelv. 222.; Winter v. Loveday, Comyn, 37; Sugden on
Powers, p. 749; 4 Greenleaf's Cruise's Digest, 165, 166;
Taussig v. Reel, 134 Missouri, 530, 544-547; Woodfall on
Landlord and Tenant (19th ed.), 239,244, 245. "A general

UNITED STATES v. NOBLE.

237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

power to lease for a certain number of years without saying
either in possession or reversion, only authorizes a lease
in possession and not in futuro. Such a power receives
the same construction as a power to make leases in possession. What is expressed in the one is understood in the
other." Shaw v. Summers, 3 Moore, C. P. 196. This is
not to say that an agreement for a new lease, at a fair
rental, made shortly before the expiration of an existing
lease, would not be sustained in equity. See Dowell v.
Dew, 1 You. & Coll. 345.
We are unable to see that the allottee under the power
in question has any better position. The protection
accorded by Congress, through the restriction upon the
alienation of the allottee's estate-modified only by the
.power to lease as specified-was not less complete because
the limitation was not in the interest of a remainderman,
but was for the benefit of the allottee himself as a ward
of the Nation. The act of 1897 gives him authority 'to
lease' for a term not exceeding the stated limit. Taking
the words in their natural sense, they authorize leases in
possession and nothing more. The language does not
compel the recognition of leases which are to take effect
in possession many years after their execution, if, indeed,
it could be assumed that they were not intended to be
concurrent. Such leases certainly violate the spirit of the
statute, and according to the analogies of the law they
violate its letter.
If,on the other hand, the lease be deemed to be a concurrent lease, that is, to be effective from its date, then it
could only have that effect, being subject to the existing
lease, as a grant or assignment of the reversion while the
existing lease continued. Accordingly, it would entitle
the lessee, as assignee of part of the reversion, to the rent
reserved in the previous lease. Bac. Abr., tit., Leases,
(N); Harmer v. Bean, 3 C. & K. 307 Woodfall on Landlord and Tenant (19th ed.), 245, 246. But every convey-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S..

ance of the reversion, or of any interest therein, was clearly
prohibited by the testriction.
From every point of view, we must conclude that a
lease for ten years, made in 1905, subject to an existing
lease for ten years, of the same property, which by its
terms was to run until 1912, was unauthorized and void.
As the United States was entitled to maintain the suit
to cancel these instruments as transgressing the statutory
restriction, it is unnecessary to consider the question
whether, in the absence of such a violation, the Government would have capacity to sue to redress alleged frauds
committed against allottees.
The decree is reversed and the cause is remanded for
further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the consideration and decision of this case.

ROBINSON v. BALTIMORE AND OHIO RAILROAD
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 167.

Argued March 3, 4, 1915.-Decided April 5, 1915.

In a suit for personal injuries under the Employers' Liability Act, a
contract between the plaintiff and a third party may be admissible
in evidence on the trial to show that plaintiff was not defendant's
employ6 even though a demurrer had been sustained to a special
plea that the contract contained a release of liability.
A contract between the Pullman Company, as employer, and its employ6 releasing the employer, and also all railroad corporations over

