OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Statement of the Case.

237 U. S.

MORGAN, WARDEN OF THE UNITED STATES
PENITENTIARY AT LEAVENWORTH, v. DEVINE.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF KANSAS.

No. 685.

Submitted April 7, 1915.-Decided June 1, 1915.

Under §§ 190 and 192 of the Penal Code, two offenses, the one of
breaking into a post office and the other of stealing property belonging to the Post Office Department, may be committed and separately charged and punished.
It is within the competency of Congress to say what shall be offenses
against the law, and its purpose was manifest in enacting §§ 190*
and 192, of the Penal Code, to create separate offenses under each
section.
The test of whether the breaking in and the larceny constitute two.
separate offenses is not whether the same criminal intent inspires
the whole transaction, but whether separate acts have been committed with requisite criminal intent and such as are punishable
by the statute. Burton v. United States, 202 U. S. 344.
The test of identity of offenses when double jeopardy is pleaded is
whether the same evidence is required to sustain them; and if not,
then the fact that both charges relate to and grow out of one transaction does not make a single offense where more than one are defined by the statute. Gavieres v. United States, 220 U. S. 338.
In this case held that one who broke into a post office and also committed
larceny therein, and who was convicted under separate counts of
the same indictment for violation of §§ 190 and 192, of the Penal
Code, and sentenced separately under each, was not, after having
served the sentence under one count, entitled to be released on the
ground of double jeopardy, because the several things charged
were done at the same time and as a part of one transaction.
THE

facts, which involve the construction of §§ 190 and

192, Penal Code, and questions of separate offenses and
punishment for breaking into a post office and committing
larceny of property of the Post Office Department under

MORGAN v. DEVINE.
237 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

the double jeopardy provision of the Fifth Amendment,
are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Wallace for appellant:
Sections 190 and 192 define and punish two offenses.
The same evidence test should be applied.
For the declared law, see 1 Bishop, New Crim. Law,
§ 1062 and p. 630.
Halligan v. Wayne, 179 Fed. Rep. 112, is responsible for
erroneous decisions and this court has repeatedly applied
a rule contrary to that case; see Burton v. United States,
202 U. S. 344; Carter v. McClaughry, 183 U. S. 365, and
Gavieres v. United States, 220 U. S. 338, to which this case
is parallel.
In support of the Government's contention,, see cases
supra, and Anderson v. Moyer, 193 Fed. Rep. 499; Ex
parte Peters, 12 Fed. Rep. 461; Morey v. Commonwealth,
108 Massachusetts, 433; Moyer v. Anderson, 203 Fed. Rep.
882; Munson v. McClaughry, 198 Fed. Rep, 72; Wilson v.
State, 24 Connecticut, 57.
Mr. A. E. Dempsey, Mr. Turner W. Bell and Mr. Robert B. Troutman for appellees:
If the second count of this indictment, as to the stealng
and purloining of the property, places the defendant twice
in jeopardy for the same offense, any punishment or sentence on this charge is contrary to the express provision
of the Constitution, and is, therefore, beyond the jurisdiction of the court. Such a sentence or punishment is
void. , The writ of habeas corpu$ is always to release one
held in custody under a judgment which is void, because
it is beyond the jurisdiction of the court. 1 Bailey, Hab.
Corp., § 2; Ex parteLange, 18 Wall. 163; Ex parte Virginia,
100 U.S. 339, 343; Ex parte Rowland, 104 U. S.604; Ex
parte Snow, 120 U. S.274; Hans Nielsen, Petitioner, 131
U. S.: 176; Henry v.'Henkel, 235 U. S.219; In re Bonner,
207.
151 U. S.242; Ex parte Mayfield, 141 U. S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Appellees.

237 U. S.

By habeas corpus the jurisdiction of the court, i. e., (1) of
the person, (2) of the offense or subject-matter, or (3). its
power to pass the particular judgment, may be examined.
1 Bailey, Hab. Corp., p. 179, and cases supra.
If the court has not jurisdiction to render the particular
sentence,-if the sentence is different from that prescribed
by the law, or is below the minimum or above the maximum,-that is good ground for releasing the prisoner on
habeas corpus. Ex parte Cox, 3 Idaho, 530; Ex parte Bulger, 60 Colorado, 438.
If a Court having jurisdiction of the person of the accused and of the offense with which he is charged, may
impose any sentence other than the legal statutory judgment, and deny the aggrieved party all relief except upon
writ of error, it is but a judicial suspension of the writ of
habeas corpus. See cases supra and Stevens v. McClaughry,
207 Fed. Rep. 18; Munson v. McClaughry, 198 Fed. Rep.
72; Halligan v. Wayne,- 179 Fed, Rep. 112.
In Moyer v. Anderson, 203 Fed. Rep. 881, to the contrary,
the court relied upon decisions of this court which were
neither controlling or in point, such as. Matter of Spencer,
228 U. S. 709; Glasgow v. Moyer, 225 U. S. 420; Johnson
v. Hay, 227 U. S. 245, none of which contravenes the contention of appellee; in fact, the doctrine of the Anderson
Case was expressly repudiated in Stevens v. McClaughry,
207 Fed. Rep. 18.
The offenses charged in the first and second counts were
parts of the same transaction, i. e., were parts of the
same continuing criminal act. Carter v. McClaughry, 183
U. S. 365;Burton v. United States, 202 U. S. 344, do not
apply.
The intent to take the Government's property was
identical in, and indispensable to, each count. The offenses
were committed in the same transaction. The intent, in
each case, was in fact the same. Munson v. McClaughry,
198 Fed. Rep. 72; Stevens v. McClaughry, 207 Fed. Rep.

MORGAN v. DEVINE.
237 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

18; O'Brien v. McClaughry, 209 Fed. Rep. 816; Halligan
v. Wayne, 179 Fed. Rep. 112; Ex parte Peters, 12 Fed.
Rep. 461; Anderson v. Moyer, 193 Fed. Rep. 499, distinguished.
A conviction for robbery is a bar to a subsequent trial
for larceny committed at the same time. And the converse
is true. That is, a man may be tried but once for robbery
or larceny done at the same time. State v. Lewis (N. Car.),
2 Hawks, 98; State v. Mikesell, 70 Iowa, 176; State v.
Ingles (N. Car.), 2 Hayw. 4.
This is law everywhere and to it the following supplement is to be added: That where a person is put in legal
jeopardy of a conviction for an offense which contains essential elements which are indispensable parts of another
offense, such jeopardy is a bar to a subsequent prosecution
for the latter offense, if founded upon the same transaction, so as to render the essential elements in fact, the
same. Bell v. State (1898), 103 Georgia, 597; 1 Bishop,
New Crim. Law, § 1062; Grafton v. United States, 206
U. S. 333; Gavieres v. United States, 220 U. S. 338. Morey
v. Commonwealth,. 108 Massachusetts, 443, is contrary,
both in decision and principle, to decisions of this court.
See also Sorenson v. United States, 168 Fed. Rep. 785.
That the crimes of burglary and larceny are the same
by nature is shown by the fact that they may be joined in
the same count of the same indictment. United States v.
Yennie, 74 Fed. Rep. 221; State v. McClurg, 35 W. Va.
280; Breese v. State, 12 Oh. St. 146; 1 Bishop, New Crim.
Law, § 1062.
The character of the offense is controlling and not the
fact that the same evidence necessary to support one indictment will not support a second indictment. In the
character of the offense now before the court if the same
evidence test is to be applied the prosecuting officers may
indict, try, convict, and punish a man for at least 14 offenses with 53 years' imprisonment and fines amounting

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opini',n of the Court.

237 U. S.

to $74,200, by a slight twist and variance in the allegations
of the counts. And in some instances, as in the instant
case, the proof of all these allegations shall in practice be
identical. The offenses being identical in law, having the
same indispensable incidents included in each, the Constitution forbids the assessment of but one penalty.
MR, JUSTICE DAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case was submitted at the same time with Ebeling
v. Morgan, just decided, ante, p. 625, and involves to a
considerable extent the same questions. The appellees,
Devine and Pfeiffer, pleaded guilty to an indictment containing two counts in the District Court of the United
States for the Eastern Division of the Southern District
of Ohio, the first count being under § 192 of the Penal Code,
charging that the appellees did on January 13, 1911, in
the County of Delaware, in the State of Ohio, unlawfully
and forcibly break into and enter a building used in whole
as a post office of the United States, with the intent then
and there to commit larceny in such building and post
office to wit, to steal and purloin property and funds then
and there in use by and belonging to the Post Office
Department of the United States. The second count was
drawn under § 190, of the penal code, charging that the
appellees, on the same date and at the same place, did
unlawfully and knowingly steal, purloin, take, and convey away certain property and moneys of the United
States, then and there in use by and belonging to the Post
Office Department of the United States, to wit, postage
stamps and postal funds, etc. One was sentenced to confinement in the United States Penitentiary at Leavenworth, Kansas, for four years on the first count, and for
two years on the second count of the indictment, the sentence to be cumulative and not concurrent. The other
appellee was likewise sentenced for three and one-half

MORGAN v. DEVINE.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

years' imprisonment and a fine of $100 on the first count;
and two years on the second count. It is admitted that
the acts set forth in the second count were performed by
the appellees in the post office under the burglarious entry
charged in the first count. Having served the larger part
of their sentences under the first count, appellees filed
their petition in the District Court of the United States
for the District of Kansas, asking for a writ of habeas
corpus, and to be discharged from confinement at the
expiration of the sentence under the first count. The
District Court, believing the case to be controlled by the
case of Munson v. McClaughrey, 198 Fed. Rep. 72, decided- by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth
Circuit, entered an order discharging the appellees from
imprisonment at the expiration of their term of confinement under the first count of the indictment.
It is the contention of the appellees that protection
against. double jeopardy set forth in the Fifth Amendment
to the Constitution of the United States required their
discharge, because the several things charged in the two
counts were done at the same time and as a part of the
same transaction.
The statutes under which the indictment was found are
as follows:
"SEC. 190. Whoever shall steal, purloin, or embezzle
any mail bag or-other property in use by or belonging to
the Post Office Department, or shall appropriate any
such property to his own or any other than its propei
use . . . shall be fined not more than two hundred
dollars, or imprisoned not more than three years, or both."
"SEc. 192. Whoever shall forcibly break into, or atteml~t
to break into any post office . . . with intent to commit in such post office . . . any larceny or other
depredation, shall be fined not more than one thousand
dollars, and imprisoned not more than five years."
W~iether under these sections of the statute two offenses

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

in the same transaction may be committed and separately
charged and punished, has been the subject of consideration in the Federal courts, and the cases in those courts
are in direct conflict. In Halligan v. Wayne (C. C. A.,
9th Ct.), 179 Fed. Rep. 112, and Munson v. McClaughry
(C. C. A., 8th Ct.), 198 Fed. Rep. 72, it was held that upon
conviction on an indictment containing two counts, one
charging burglary with intent.to commit larceny, and the
other larceny, upon a general verdict of guilty, there can
be but a single sentence, and that for the burglary only;
and that after the. defendant has served a sentence for
that offense he is entitled to release on habeas corpus.
The rule has been held to be otherwise in Ex parte Peters
(Circ. Ct., W. D. Mo.), 12 Fed. Rep. 461, and in Anderson v. Moyer (Dist. Ct., N. D. Ga.), 193 Fed. Rep.
499.
We think it is manifest that Congress in the enactment
of these sections intended to describe separate and distinct
offenses, for in § 190 it is made an offense to steal any mail
bag or other property belonging to the Post Office Department, irrespective of whether it was necessary in order to
reach the property to forcibly break and enter into a post
office building. The offense denounced by that sectiodl
is complete when the property is stolen, if it belonged to
the Post Office Department, however the larceny be
attempted. Section 192 makes it an offense to forcibly
break into or attempt to break into a post office, with
intent to commit in such post office a larceny or other
depredation. This offense is complete when the post
office is forcibly broken into, with intent to steal or commit
other depredation. It describes an offense distinct and
apart from the larceny or embezzlement which is defined
and made punishable under § 190. If the forcible entry
into the post office has been accomplished with the intent
to commit the offenses as described, or any one of them,
the crime is complete, although the intent to steal or

MORGAN v. DEVINE.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

commit depredation in the post office building may have
been frustrated or abandoned without accomplishment.
And so, under § 190, if the property is in fact stolen, it is
immaterial how the post office was entered, whether by
force or as a matter of right, or whether the building was
entered into at all. It being within the competency of
Congress to say what shall be offenses against the law,
we' think the purpose was manifest in these sections to
create two offenses. Notwithstanding there is a difference
in the adjudicated cases upon this subject, we think the
better doctrine recognizes that although the transaction
may be in a sense continuous, the offenses are separate,
and each complete in itself. This is the result of the
authorities as stated by Mr. Bishop in his new work on
Criminal Law (Eighth Edition):
"If in the night a man breaks and enters a dwelling
house to steal therein, and steals, he may be punished for
two offenses or one, at the election of the prosecuting
power. An allegation simply of breaking, entering, and
stealing states the burglary in a form which makes it
single, and a conviction therefor will bar an indictment
for the larceny or the burglary alone. But equally well a
first count may set out a breaking and entering with intent
to steal, and a second may allege the larceny as a separate
thing, and thereon the defendant may be convicted and
sentenced for both." (Section 1062.) 1
.
"The
test is whether, if what is set out in the second indictment
had been proved under the first, there could have been a
conviction; when there could, the second can not be mainThis view was held in the following state cases:
Wilson v. State, 24 Connecticut, 57; Dodd v. State, 33 Arkansas, 517;
Speers v. Commonwealth, 17 Grat. (Va.) 570; State v. Hackett, 47
Minnesota, 425; Josslyn v. Commonwealth, 47 Massachusetts, 236;
Iowa v. Ingalls, 98 Iowa, 728; Gordon v. State, 71'Alabama, 315; Clark
v. State, 59 Tex. Cr. 246; State v. Hooker, 145.N. C. 581; People v.
Parrow,80 Michigan, 567; State v. Martin, 76 Missouri, 337.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

tained; when there could not, it can be." (Section 1052,
p. 630.)
That the two offenses may be joined in one indictment
is made plain by § 1024 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States, which provides:
"Where there are several charges against any person
for the same act or transaction, or for two or more acts
or transactions connected together, or for two or more acts
or transactions of the same class of crimes or offenses,
which may be properly joined, instead of having several
indictments the whole may be joined in one indictment
in separate counts; and if two or more indictments are
found in such cases, the court may order them consolidated."
The reason for the rule that but a single offense is committed and subject to punishment is stated in Munson v.
McClaughry, 198 Fed. Rep.72, as follows:
"A -criminal intent to commit larceny of property of the
government is an indispensable element of each of. the
offenses of which the petitioner was convicted, and there
can be no doubt that where one attempts to break into or
breaks into a post office building with intent to commit
larceny therein, and at the same time commits the larceny,
his criminal intent is one, and it inspires his entire transaction, which.is itself in reality but a single continuing act."
But the test is not whether the criminal intent is one
and the same and inspiring the whole transaction, but
whether separate acts have been committed with the
requisite criminal intent and are such as are made punishable by the act of Congress. In Burton v. United States,
202 U. S. 344, the defendant was charged in separate
counts with receiving compensation in violation of the
act and also agreeing to receive compensation in violation
of the same statute. In that case the contention was that
the defendant could not legally be indicted for two
separate offenses, one agreeing to receive compensation,

MORGAN v. DEVINE.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and the other receiving such compensation, in violation of
the statute, but this court held that the statute was so
written, and said:
"There might be an agreement to receive compensation
for services to be rendered without any compensation ever
being in fact made, and yet.that agreement would be covered by the statute as an offense. Or, compensation might
be received for the forbidden services without any previous
agreement, and yet the statute would be violated. In this
case, the subject matter of the sixth count, which charged
an agreement to receive $2,500, was more extensive than
that charged in the seventh count, which alleged the receipt of $500. But Congress intended to place its condemnation upon each distinct, separate part of every
transaction coming within the mischiefs intended to be
reached and remedied. Therefore an agreement to receive
compensation was made an offense. So the receiving of
compensation in violation of the statute, whether pursuant to a previous agreement or not, was made another
and separate offense. There is, in our judgment, no escape from this interpretation consistently with the established rule that the intention of the legislature must
govern in the interpretation of a statute. 'It is the legislature, not the court, which is to define a crime, and ordain
its punishment.' United States v. Wiltberger, 5 Wheat. 76,
95; Hackfeld & Co. v. United States, 197 U. S. 442, 450."
As to the contention of double jeopardy upon which the
petition of habeas corpus is rested in this case, this court
has settled that the test of identity of offenses is whether
the same evidence is required to sustain them; if not,
then the fact that both charges relate to and grow out of
one transaction does not make a single offense where two
are defined by the statutes. Without repeating the discussion, we need but refer to Carter v. McClaughry, 183
U. S. 365; Burton v. United States, 202 U. S. 344, 377, and
the recent case of Gavieres v. United States, 220 U. S. 338.
VOL. ccxxxvii-41

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Statement of the Case.

237 U. S.

It follows that the judgment of the District Court, discharging the appellees, must be reversed, and the case remanded to that court with instructions to dismiss the
petition.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took
eration or decision of this case.

no part in the consid-

BOTHWELL v. BINGHAMY COUNTY, IDAHO.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IDAHO.

No. 266.

Argued May 6, 1915.-Decided June 1, 1915.

The determinative fact of whether property formerly part of the public
domain of the United'States is subject to taxation by the State is
the absence of any beneficial interest in the land on the part of the
United States at the time of the assessment.
Neither the Carey Act of August.18, 1894, nor the agreement thereunder with the State of Idaho in regard to irrigation of arid lands
segregated from the public domain, purports to exempt the lands
from taxation or take them out of the settled rule respecting taxation
by the State of lands acquired under public land laws.
Wheie proceedings to acquire title to public land have reached the
point where nothing remains to be done by the entryman, and the
United States has no beneficial interest therein and does not exclude
the entryman from the use thereof, the entryman is regarded as
the beneficial owner and the land is subject to taxation, even though
the legal title may not have been passed to him; and in this respect
it is immaterial whether the title passes direct from the Goverrment
or through the State, under provisions of the Carey Act.
24 Idaho, 125, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the construction of the Carey
Act of August 18, 1894, and the right of the State to tax

