OCTOBER. TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

237 U. S.

"the record of the case, its pleadings, bills of exceptions,
judgment, evidence, in short, its record, whether it be a
case in law or equity, must be the chief foundation of the
inquiry; and while we are not prepared to fix any absolute
limit to the sources of the inquiry under the new act, we
feel quite sure it was not intended to open the scope of it
to any loose range of investigation."
If the recorff,. including the opinion, leaves it a matter
of doubtful inference upon what basis of fact the state
qourt rested its decision of the Federal question, it seems
to us very plain, upon general principles, that we ought
to assume, so far as the state of the record permits; that
it adopted such a basis of fact as would most clearly
sustain its judgment. Hence, in the present case, we
ought to and do assume that the Arkansas Supreme Court
acted upon the basis of the facts set up. in the answer of
the City, treating them as sufficiently substantiated by
the effect of the demurrer in admitting them to be true
go far as properly pleaded. This being so, there is, as we
have already remarked, no reasonable question of the
validity of the ordinance, and the judgment of the Supreme
Court is
Affirmed.

MALLOY v. STATE OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF.SOUTH
CAROLINA.
No. 172.

Argued March 5, 1915.-Decided April 5, 1915.

The constitutional inhibition on ex post facto laws was intended .to
secure substantial personal rights against arbitrary and oppressive
legislative actior and not to obstruct mere alterations in conditions deemed necessary for the orderly infliction of humane punishment. Rooney v. North Dakota, 196 U. S. 319.

MALLOY v. SOUTH CAROLINA.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

A law is not ex post facto within the constitutional prohibition that
mollifies the rigor of the criminal law; but only those laws that create
or aggravate the crime or increase the punishment or change the rules
of evidence for the purpose of conviction fall within the prohibition.
Calder v. Bull, 3 Dall. 386.
A statute not changing the penalty of death for murder but only the
mode of producing death, does not increase the punishment.
Producing death by electrocution instead of by hanging does not increase the punishment and is not unconstitutional under the ex post
facto prohibition of the Federal Constitution; and so held as to the
statute of South Carolina providing for punishment of murder by
death produced by electrocution instead of hanging.
95 S. Car. 441, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality under the
ex post facto provision of the Federal Constitution of the
law of South Carolina relating to punishment for murder
and altering of place and method of execution of the death
sentence, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Charles L. Prince, with whom Mr. W. F. Stevenson
was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. F. H. Dominick, with whom Mr. Thomas H. Peeples,
Attorney General for South Carolina, was on the brief, for
defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDs delivered the opinion of the
court.
At the summer term, 1912, Court of General Sessions,
Marlboro County, South Carolina, Joe Malloy was found
guilty without a recommendation to mercy under an
indictment charging him with the murder of Moore,.
November 24, 1910, and sentenced to death by electrocution in conformity to the Act of the Legislature approved
February 17, 1912'(S. Car. Statutes at Large, 1912, p. 702),

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

the pertinent portions of which are in the margin.' The
judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State
(95 S. Car. 441); the cause is here by writ of error; and a
reversal is asked solely upon the ground that the enactment of 1912 materially changed the punishment for
murder and therefore in respect of Malloy's offense is
IAN

ACT TO PRESCRIBE THE METHOD OF CAPITAL PUNISHMENT IN
SOUTH CAROLINA.

SEC. 1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of South.
Carolina, That after the approval of this act by the Governor all persons convicted of capital crime and have imposed upon them the
sentence of death shall suffer such penalty by electrocution within the
walls of the State Penitentiary, at Columbia, under the direction of the
Superintendent of the Penitentiary instead of by hanging.
SEC. 2. The Board of Directors of the State Penitentiary are authorized and required to provide a death chamber and all necessary appliances for inflicting such -penalty by electrocution and pay the costs
thereof out of any furds in their hands. The expense of transporting
any such criminal to the State Penitentiary shall be borne by the c6unty
in which the offence was committed.
SEC. 3. Upon the conviction of any person in this State of a crime,
the punishment of which is death, it shall be the duty of the presiding
Judge to sentence such convicted person to death according to the
provisions of this Act, and to make such sentence in writing, which
shall be filed with the papers in the case against such convicted person,
and a certified copy thereof shall be transmitted by the Clerk of the
Court of General Sessions in which said sentence is pronounced to the
Superintendent of the State Penitentiary, at Columbia. .
SEC. 4. At such execution there shall be present the executioner and
at least two assistants, the Penitentiary surgeon and one other surgeon,
if the condemned person so desires, an electrician, the condemned
person's counsel and relatives, if they so desire, ministers of the gospel,
not exceeding three, if they so desire, and not less than twelve nor more
than twenty-four respectable'citizens of this State, to be designated by
the executioner.
SEC. 5..
.
SEC. 6. .
SEC. 7. That all Acts or parts of Acts inconsisttA with this Act are
hereby repealed.
Approved the 17th day of February, A. D. 1912.

MALLOY v. SOUTH CAROLINA.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ex post facto and in contravention of Art. I, ยง 10, of the
Federal Constitution.
Under the South Carolina laws effective when the crime
was committed the punishment for one found guilty of
murder without recommendation to mercy was death by
hanging within the county jail, or its enclosure, in the
presence of specified witnesses. The subsequent act
prescribed electrocution as the method of producing death
instead of hanging, fixed the place therefor within the
penitentiary, and permitted the presence of more invited
witnesses than had theretofore been allowed.
In response to the meticulous objection based upon
change of place for execution and increased number of
witnesses it suffices to refer to what this court said through
Mr. Justice Harlan in Holden v. Minnesota, 137 U. S. 483,
491, and Rooney v. North Dakota, 196 U. S. 319, 325, 326.
The'constitutional inhibition of ex post facto laws was
intended to secure substantial personal rights against
arbitrary and oppressive legislative action, and not to
obstruct mere alteration in conditions deemed necessary
for the orderly infliction of humane punishment.
The contention in behalf of plaintiff in error most
earnestly relied on is this: Any statute enacted subsequent
to the commission of a crime which undertakes to change
the punishment therefor is ex post facto and unconstitutional unless it distinctly modifies the severity of the
former penalty. "The courts cannot and will not undertake to say whether or not a change from hanging to electrocution is an increase or mitigation of punishment;"
and therefore the act of 1912 cannot apply in the circumstances presented here. Hartungv. People, 22 N. Y. 95.
The often-quoted opinion of Mr. Justice Chase in
Calder v. Bull, 3 Dall. 386, 390, 391, summarizes ex post
facto laws within the intendment of the Constitution thus:
"1st. Every law that makes an action done before the
passing of the law, and which was innocent when done,

184

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

criminal; and punishes such action. 2d. Every law that
aggravates a crime, or makes it greater than it was, when
committed. 3d. Every law that changes the punishment,
and inflicts a greater punishment, than the law annexed to

the crime, when committed. 4th. Every law that alters the
legal rules of evidence, and receives less, or different, testimony, than the law required at the time of the commission
of the offense, in order to convict the offender. All these,
and similar laws, are manifestly unjust and oppressive."
Further expounding the subject, he adds: "But I do not
consider any law ex post facto, within the prohibition, that
mollifies the rigor of the criminal law; but only those that
create, or aggravate, the crime; or increase the punishment, or change the rules of evidence, for the purpose of
conviction." And to the general doctrine thus announced
this court has continued to adhere.
In Mallett v. North Carolina,181 U; S. 589, 597, Mr. Jus-

tice Shiras, speaking for the court, after reviewing former
opinions, applied the established principles and concluded
that the impeached legislation was not ex post facto since
it "did not make that a criminal act which was innocent
when done; did not aggravate an offence or change the
punishment and make it greater than when it was committed; did not alter the rules of evidence, and require
less or different evidence than the law required at the time
of the commission of the offence; and did not deprive the
accused of any substantial right or immunity possessed
by them at the time of the commission of the offence
charged."
Considering the above stated settled doctrine and well
known facts of which judicial notice is taken, we think the
validity of the impeached act is clear.
Impressed with the serious objection to executions by
hanging and hopeful that means might be found for taking
life "in a less barbarous manner," the Governor of New
York brought the subject to the attention of the legis-

MALLOY v. SOUTH CAROLINA.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

lature in 1885. A commission thereafter appointed to
ascertain the most humane and practical method of inflicting the death sentence reported in favor of electrocution. This was adopted by the statute of 1888 and,
with the approval of the courts, has been in continuous
use since that time. In re Kemmler, 136 U. S. 436; People
ex rel. Kemmler v. Durston, 119 N. Y. 569.
Influenced by the results in New York eleven other
States I have adopted the same mode for inflicting death
in capital cases; and, as is commonly known, this result is
the consequent of a well-grounded belief that electrocution
is less painful and more humane than hanging. Storti v.
Commonwealth, 178 Massachusetts, 549, 553; State v.
Tomassi, 75 N. J. L. 739, 747.
The statute under consideration did not change the
penalty-death-for murder, but only the mode of
producing this together with certain non-essential details
in respect of surroundings. The punishment was not
increased and some of the odious features incident to the
old method were abated.
In Hartung v. People, supra, the court had under consideration and condemned an act of the legislature which
made a distinct addition to the penalty prescribed when
the crime was committed; and the conclusion therein is
not properly applicable in the circumstances of the present
cause where there has been no such change.
The judgment of the court below is
Affirmed.
1 Ohio, 1896; Massachusetts, 1898; New Jersey, 1907; Virginia, 1908;
North Carolina, 1909; Kentucky, 1910; South Carolina, 1912; Arkansas,

Indiana, Pennsylvania and Nebraska, 1913.

