OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

237 U. S.

since his extradition, and we cannot see that it is a matter
of any interest to the surrendering government. There
is nothing in § 5275, Rev. Stat., supra, which gives the
least countenance to the claims of the plaintiff in error."
Appellant's other poiuts and arguments are but vaiations of those that have been mentioned.
The final order of the District Court refusing the application for a writ of habeas corpus is
Affirmed.

LONGPRE v. DIAZ.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
PORTO RICO.
No. 51.

Submitted March 15, 1915.-Decided June 1, 1915.

Under the law of Porto Rico as it was in 1892 a widow and guardian
ad litem had no authority to give the property of the minor child 'in
payment of a debt of the deceased father in private sale, and there
was no authority in any judge to approve such a voluntary partition
as was involved in this action.
A disposition of a minor's property by private sale in Porto Rico, unauthorized by the local law, even if approved by a judge, is void,
and the minor, on coming of age, may sue in ejectment under the
provisions of the Civil Code of Porto Rico, then in force and applicable in this case, without first seeking rescission of the partition.
An unsuccessful defendant in ejectment must, unless a purchaser in
good faith, account for the fruits gathered during possession.
While under the Civil Code of Porto Rico good faith is presumed until
bad faith is shown, one who purchases property belonging to a minor
under a confessedly non-existent and void instrument cannot be
a purchaser in good faith.
The rule that the burden of proof to show bad faith is on him who
charges it, does not apply where bad faith is shown ipso facto by the
acquisition being contrary to law.
Under Art. 442, of the. Civil Code of Porto Rico, an heir who possessed

LONGPII
237 U. S.

v. DIAZ.

Opinion of the Court.

property in personal good faith is relieved from liability to account
after ejectment, for the fruits during his possession, notwithstanding
his ancestor from whom he derived the property may not have
acquired it in good faith.
THE facts, which involve the construction and application of the laws of Porto Rico relating to the accountability
for fruits and profits of real estate of one evicted therefrom,
are stated in the opinion.

Mr. H. H. Scoville and Mr. Jose R. F. Savage for plaintiff
in error.
Mr. Francis H. Dexter, Mr. Joseph Anderson, Jr., and
Mr. Damian Monserrat,Jr., for defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the

court.
Clemente Diaz y Gonzalez, residing in Viequez, Porto
Rico, there died in April, 1890, leaving a widow and an
infant son, the issue of their marriage. The deceased
was the recorded owner of a piece of farming property
known as Destino, as well as of other pieces o f property.
of small area and value, all of which were his separate
estate, having been acquired before marriage. By the ,
provisions of the Code it is conceded that the minor was
the sole legal heir of his father, taking all his property,
subject however to a usufruct of one-third in favor of his
mother, the widow. In April, 1892, in conciliatory proceedings before a municipal magistrate preparatory to a
suit to be brought by Ramon Aboy Benitez to enforce a
debt which he asserted against the estate, the widow
admitted that Aboy was a creditor of the estate for a little
over three thousand pesos, evidenced as to a considerable
part by the notes of the deceased and the remainder embracing doctors' bills, taxes and money advanced for the
support of the widow and infant child. The creditor,
VOL. CcxxxvII--33

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

presumably in consequence of this acknowledgment,
agreed to await payment until March, 1893, when a lease
would expire which existed on the property known as
Destino in favor of an agricultural partnership styled
Mourraille & Martineau. In the following August, 1892,
on the petition of the widow the court of first instance of
Humacao, within whose territorial jurisdiction Viequez
was situated, recognized the minor as the sole heir of the
father and as such entitled to his estate subject to the
usufruct in favor of the widow as above stated. The court
subsequently on the petition of the mother appointed a
paternal uncle of the minor, Santos Diaz y Gonzalez, his
guardian ad litem to act tor and represent the infant in
matters where from conflict of interest or otherwise his
mother would be incapacitated from so doing. Thereafter
Aboy by a notarial act transferred to the firm of Mourraille
& Martineau- the greater part of his acknowledged debt,
the widow intervening in the act for the purpose of taking
cognizance of the transfer and in addition to recognize
certain small debts held by the firm against the estate.
Contemplating an extra-judicial partition, the widow
and the guardian ad litem then united in the appointment
of an accountant to accomplish that purpose, who drew
an agreement of so-called partition which was executed
by the parties on December 27, 1893. In the agreement
the liabilities of the estate were enumerated and its assets
were stated and valued and the property of the entire
estate was conveyed. For the purposes of this case it
suffices to say that as the debt due to the firm of Mourraille
& Martineau was as stated precisely equal to the value
affixed to the farm Destino, that property was transferred
and delivered to the firm in extinguishment of its debts
and a like course by transferring other property was
pursued as to the comparatively small debt of Aboy. The
small remainder of the estate was declared to be subject
to the ownership of the minor and the one-third usufruct

LONGPR, v. DIAZ.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of his mother. To make this private agreement for voluntary and extra-judicial partition authentic in form by
placing it of record, the widow, on February 1, 1894,
appeared before a notary and exhibiting the agreement
deposited it among the archives of his office after making
the necessary declarations to accomplish that purpose.
This being done, a copy of the agreement as authenticated
and deposited was presented to the judge of the court of
first instance of Humacao for his approval, which was by
him given with a direction to the officer of registration to
place the agreement as authenticated upon the public
records. In April, 1894, this was done, thus transferring
on the public record the title of the farm Destino from
the name of Diaz, the deceased, to the name of the firm of
Mourraille & Martineau. It is conceded, however, that
in the meanwhile, in February, 1894, as a result of the
transfer made under the so-called partition agreement
delivery of the possession of the farm Destino was made
to the firm and they held the same asserting ownership
thereof.
By the provisions of a notarial act executed in May,
1894, which was inscribed' upon the public registry, for the
purpose of dividing the assets of the firm of Mourraille &
Martineau among the partners, the title to the farm
Destino passed from the firm to the individual name of
Victor Mourraille. By his death which, although the
date is somewhat obscure in the record, occurred probably
in January, 1895, the property passed to the plaintiffs in
error, his widow and heirs. Whether they took as the
result of intestacy or by will is not disclosed and is immaterial to consider, since it is conceded that the rights
enjoyed by them Were but a continuation of those possessed by Mourraille himself in virtue of the proceedings
conveying the property Destino to the firm and of the
attribution of the property to Mourraille in the division
of the Arm assets,

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

More than twenty years after the death of his father the
minor, Clemente Diaz, having been duly emancipated,
commenced in a local court in Porto Rico this suit against
the present plaintiffs in error, the widow and heirs of
Mourraille, in revendication of the property called Destino
previously transferred to them under the circumstances
above stated. They removed the case to the court below
and successfully resisted a motion to remand. Thereupon
the petition was amended. . As amended in substance it
asserted that the plaintiff was the duly registered owner
of the property, and that his possession had been wrongfully disturbed in 1894 by the action of the defendants or
their author in taking possession of the same. A brief
outline of the facts which we have previously stated was
made and the prayer was for a recovery of the farm called
Destino and for a decree for fruits and revenues from the
time of taking possession in 1894. An answer was filed
which was demurred to for insufficiency. It would seem
that before the demurrer was passed upon an amended
and fuller answer was filed. By this answer the facts
which we have previously stated were in substance admitted. The capacity of the plaintiff to sue was challenged, first, because as an heir of his father he had no
right to do so, and second, because he was without authority to recover the property without previously suing to
rescind the partitibn proceedings and the recorded title
resulting therefrom and thus collaterally assail those proceedings. The, want of right to recover as a question of
merits was denied, first, because of a term of prescription
which was pleaded, second, because of the validity of the
partition proceedings and the conclusive effect of the judgment of approval given to them by the proper court, third,
because a suit to rescind such proceedings was barred by
a prescription which was also pleaded, fourth, because in
any event the plaintiff was without authority to sue to

recover the fruits. and revenues of the property because

LONGPRP, v. DIAZ.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

during his minority they were collectible, if due, by his
mother as administrator, of his estate and because even
in case there was a right to evict, the fruits and revenues
could not be recovered from Mourraille because of his
good faith, nor from the defendants holding under him
because of their good faith. This answer was again demurred to as stating no defense. The court sustained the
demurrer in so far as it questioned the sufficiency of the
technical defenses advanced by the answer on the ground
that the proceedings of so-called partition were absolutely
void and the approval affixed by the judge of the court of
first instance of Humacao was equally null because of an
absolute want of jurisdiction on his part to take the action
in the premises which he had taken. The answer was again
amended. The defenses to the merits concerning the
want of right to recover the property or its fruits and
revenues as well as prescription were all in the fullest way
reasserted, .and in addition a counterclaim was presented
asserting that the defendants in the event of eviction were
entitled to recover the amount of the debt owned by
Mourraille & Martineau which had been used in the socalled partition proceedings to pay for the Destino property, with interest thereon at six per cent.
Upon the issues which were*made by this answer and
counterclaim the case came finally to trial before a jury.
On the opening the plaintiff to make out his title after
establishing his heirship, offered the documents establishing the facts concerning the partition which we have
stated and the defendants expressing their purpose to
offer no further evidence on those subjects, the court applying the conclusion which it had reached on the demurrer as to the absolute nullity of the partition sale, instructed the jury that on the question of title there must
be a verdict for the plaintiff. Thereupon the trial proceeded solely as to the right to recover fruits and revenues
and no evidence on any other subject was offered. It vas

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

agreed between the parties that there should be deducted
from any sum of fruits and revenues found to be due, onethird thereof upon the theory that they belonged to the
widow of Diaz, the mother of the plaintiff, in virtue of her
usufruct and were not involved in the suit. And it was
further admitted that the claim asserted in the counterclaim was valid and there should be a verdict for the recovery of the sum claimed with interest. Considerable
evidence as to fruits and revenues was offered and some
exceptions were taken by the defendants to rulings of the
court admitting evidence concerning the subject on the
ground that by its admission too great leeway was afforded for speculative damages. The defendants specifically requested that, the jury be instructed that if they
were in good faith they were not liable for fruits and
revenues, which was refused and an exception taken. And
an exception was also reserved concerning the right to
award. fruits and revenues to the plaintiff for the period
covered by his minority because of the right of his mother
to administer his property during such time. There was
a verdict and judgnaent for the property and for the rents
and revenues during the entire term of adverse possession,
whether held by Mourraille & Martineau, by Mourraille
himself, or by the defendants holding under him.
There are twenty-seven assignments of error, but we
shall confine our attention to the questions pressed in argument. The validity and effect of the so-called partition
proceedings on the title of the property sued for underlies
every consideration urged and we therefore, as did the
court below, first consider that subject. While it is obvious
that the property left by the deceased and which passed to
his heir, the minor, was bound for the debts of the deceased
and subject to be disposed of under lawful proceedings to
pay the same, we think it is indisputably apparent that
there was an absolute want of authority on the part of the
widow and guardian ad litem to give the property of the

LONGPRP v. DIAZ.
237 U.. S.

Opinion of the Court.

minor in payment of an alleged debt of the estate of the
father. We say this because the so-called partition and
the sale of the property by a mere private agreement were
directly in the teeth of the requirements of the law concerning the administration and sale of a minor's property and
therefore such mere private sale created no-rights whatever
conflicting with the title vested in the minor in virtue of
his heirship. And We are of opinion moreover that by the
same token it conclusively results that the judge of the
court of first instance of Humacao was absolutely without
jurisdiction to approve the so-called -voluntary partition
proceedings and therefore that no rights whatever arose
from such sanction. We do not stop to refer to the requirements of the local law which were absolutely disregarded
in the private sale relied upon, since in substance it is not
disputed that if the proceedings by which the property
was sold had the character which we.affix to them, they
were wholly unauthorized by the local law and indeed were
prohibited by its express or implied provisions.' In the
light of this conclusion we are of opinion that the lower
court committed no error in overruling the challenge made
by the answer to the capacity of the plaintiff to sue in
revendication (ejectment) upon the assumption that he
was bound first to seek the rescission of the partition pro.ceedings and to obtain an annulment of the order of the
judge approving the same, since it is impossible to conceive that the preliminary duty existed to obtain the annulment of that which was already null or to seek to
rescind that which never in contemplation of law had any
existence whatever. In passing we observe that. the contention that the plaintiff as the sole heir of his father's
estate and as such the owner of the entire property sued
for was without capacity to sue is, we think, refuted by its
mere statement.
Aside from the objections to which we have referred
concerning the admissibility of. evidence as to the quantum

OCT0O3ER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

of fruits and revenues which we'shall hereafter notice, this
reduces the case to a consideration of the right to recover
fruits and revenues. The question ariseg in a two-fold aspect: First, as to the liability for fruits and revenues of
Victor Mourraille, the author in title of the defendants,
and second, of the defendants themselves. In both, questions of fact and law require to be considered, the first in- volving the existence of good faith, and the second, the
legal responsibility for fruits and revenues resulting from
the ultimate conclusion as to the existence of good faith
drawn from the proof on the subject.
The provisions of the present Porto Rican Civil Code
controlling the subject, which are in substance the same
as those of the Spanish Civil Code previously governing in
Porto Rico, are as follows, the numbers of the articles of
the former Spanish Code being printed in brackets:
"SEc. 453. [451] A possessor in good faith becomes the
owner of the fruits collected, so long as the possession is
not legally interrupted.
"Natural and cultivated fruits are considered as collected from the timb they are gathered or separated.
"Civil fruits are considered as daily proceeds, and belong, in that proportion, to the possessor in good faith.
"SEc. 436. [433] A bona fide possessor is deemed to be
the person who is not aware that there exists in his title or
in the manner of acquiring it, any flaw invalidating the
same.
"A possessor in bad faith is deemed to be any person
possessing in any case contrary tq the above.
"SEc. 437. [434] Good faith is always presumed, and
any person averring bad faith on the part of a possessor,
is bound to prove the same.
"SEC. 444. [442] Any person who succeeds by hereditary title shall not suffer the consequences of a faulty
possession of the testator, unless it be shown that he was
aware of the defects affecting such possession; but the

LONGPRP v. DIAZ.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

effects of possession in, good faith shall benefit him only
from the date of the decease of the testator."
First, As to the good faith of Mourraille.
As there was no evidence from which the Want of good
faith of the firm of Mourraille & Martineau or of Mourraille himself was deducible except the proof concerning
the giving in payment of the'minor's property as the result
of the voluntary partition, it follows.that unless such
evidence established the want of good faith there was error
under the very terms of the Code in allowing the recovery
of fruits and revenues against Mourraille for the period
of his possession as distinguished from the possession of
the defendants holding under )him.. As we have already,
however, pointed out that the partitioh proceedings were
absolutely void because in violation Of -the requirements'
of law concerning the sale of the minor's property, it
follows that the absence of good faith clearly resulted from
taking possession of the property and attempting to hold*
it under a confessedly nonexistent and void instrument.
The conclusion so irresistibly arises from the premise upon
which it is based that reference to authority on the subject might Well be dispensed with. Authority, however,
is not wanting, since in countries where the civil law prevails and the right to retain fruits and revenues in the
event of eviction in case of good faith is recognized, with
substantial unanimity it has'always been considered that
the existence of good faith was excluded and the conclusion of legal bad faith necessarily arose against one who
was a party to an attempt to acquire property by a deed,
conveyance or proceeding which was absolutely void because in violation of prohibitory laws. Such was the rule
in France prior to the Code Napoleon. So also under that
Code the doctrine has been expressly announced and
applied by the Court of Cassation. See Hrit. Daud6 C.
Etienne, Cass. 19 Dec. 1864, Journal Du Palais for 1865,
p. 27, and note 3 where a reference is made to other ad-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

judged cases on the..subject and to doctrinal writers sustaining the principle. So in Louisiana many years ago
it was recognized that "The purchaser of minors' property by private agreement is a possessor in bad faith."
Fletcher v. Cavalier, 4 Louisiana, 267, 277; Morand v.
New"Orleans, 5 Louisiana, 226, 242. And the same principle was applied to "one possessing by a judgment of a
court without jurisdiction." Lowry v. Erwin, 6 Rob. 192.
And that such was the law in Spain both before and after,
the Civil Code would seem to be undoubted since Scaevola
so treats it. Thus that author in his Commentaries on the
Spanish Civil Code, Volume 8, pages 308 et seq., in commenting on Article 442 (identical with § 444 of the Porto
Rican Civil Code,) says:
"This rule, which is but an expression of the principle
that 'the burden of proof is upon the one who makes the
charge,' . . . in our opinion had no application in
the event the possession takes its origin in a faulty manner
of acquiring, either by being contrary to provisions of law,
or through lack of compliance with certain requisites.
In this case, we said, that proof was not necessary, inasmuch as bad faith was shown ipso facto by the single circumstance of the acquisition being contrary to law.
'Thus,' we said, 'he who acquires a thing belonging to a
minor, without authorization from the family council,
he who purchases it, regardless of the prohibitions of
Article 1459, cannot be considered a possessor in good
faith, because he knew beforehand that he could not
acquire it, that the acquisition wam faulty, being contrary
to law, and because no one is permitted to plead ignorance
of the law.'"
And this brings us to consider under a second heading
whether the burden of proof was sustained and the want
of good faith of the plaintiffs in error, the heirs of Mourraille holding under him, was established as the result of
the proof of Mourraille's own bad faith.

LONGPR9 v. DIAZ.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Second, As to the good faith of the heirs of Mourraillo.
The contention of the plaintiffs in error pressed below
and here urged is that even conceding the absence of good
faith of Mourraille and their liability as his successors or
heirs as the result of the eviction to refund fruits and revenues during his term of possession, the liability of the
defendants beyond this to pay rents and revenues did not
arise because the proof of the want of good faith in Mourraille did not establish the want of good faith of his heirs
holding under him. And because of this proposition it is
insisted the court below erred in refusing to charge that in
the absence of proof of bad faith on their part they were
Pot liable on eviction for fruits and revenues during their
possession as distinguished from that of Mourraille. The
contention is rested upon the provisions of § 444 of the
Porto Rican Code (Article 442 of the Spanish Code),
saying:
"Any person who succeeds by hereditary title shall not
suffer the consequences of a faulty possession of the testator, unless it be shown that he was aware of the defects
affecting such possession; but the effects of possession in
good faith shall benefit him only from the date of the decease of the testator."
This provision, it is insisted; causes the liability of the
heirs to pay fruits and revenues upon their eviction to
depend upon their personal good faith disconnected from
and uninfluenced by the bad faith found to exist in Mourraille, their author, under whom they held. On the other
hand this is met by the contention that by the very nature
of the possession of the heirs under and through Mourraille
as his legal successors continuing, so to speak, his personality, the*bad faith of their author was imputable to
them and their liability as possessors in bad faith to restore fruits and revenues is consequently established. It
is conceded by both parties that the text of the section
relied upon was introduced into the Spanish Code as the,

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

result of an original conception, since it was not found
in the Code Napoleon and not expressed in the codes which
have followed that Code, as for instance the Code of
Louisiana. It is also to be conceded that as the text in the
Spanish code had received no authoritative interpretation
when it was adopted in so many words into the Porto
Rican code, therefore the adoption carried with it no
previous authoritative interpretation. The respective
contentions turn upon a discussion of the text relied upon
and the support which each side assumes is afforded their
view of the subject derived from Spanish doctrinal writers
on the Code. Thus in favor of the doctrine that the heirship to the property carries with. it as an inseparable incident the heirship to the bad faith of the author or ancestor, especially where such bad faith of the author is the
resultant of the void nature of the immediate title under
which he held the property, great reliance is placed upon
a passage in the work of Scaevola, the eminent legal writer
already referred to. The passage in question is found in
the comment of the author upon Article 442 of the Code
immediately following the passage which we have already
quoted concerning the proof of bad faith established as
against one who has acquired through an absolutely void
deed or proceeding, and is as follows:
"Now then: will the explanation be applicable to the
successor? Our opinion inclines to the affirmative. The
case presented by us deals with an error of law, and this
no one should be ignorant of. The successor cannot maintain that he is ignorant of it: first, because it is not possible
to claim ignorance of the law; second, because on accepting
tho- inheritance, from the moment a person is converted
into a successor, there is no other presumption but that
he has examined the titles of possession of his author and
predecessor. Acceptance of the inheritance implies previous examination of everything concerning it. How can
it be lawful for a successor to allege that he believed, for

LONGPRA v. DIAZ.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

example, that an estate possessed by his predecessor was,
held in good faith if he had acquired it in a faulty manner,
contrary to law? Such allegation would be inadmissible,
because the successor, by the mere fact of being such successor, is presumed to know the titles of possession of the
predecessor, and therefore the faults attached thereto.
On the supposition of which we are speaking, we repeat,
bad faith is inherent to transmittal to the successor, inasmuch as the successor continues the personality of the
predecessor."
On the other hand reliance to the contrary is placed
upon opinions expressed by other Spanish doctrinal
writers on the Code or books dealing with that subject
as follows: Manresa, Commentaries on the Spanish Civil
Code, Vol. 4, p. 165 et seq.; Spanish Judicial Encyclopedia, Francisco Seix, Editor, Vol. 4, p. 665 et seq.; Diaz
Guijarro y Martinez Ruiz on the Civil Code, Vol. 3,
p. 311. Without admitting that the authorities thus
relied upon are entirely reconcilable one with the other
or afford what is deemed any safe rule for elucidating
the significance of the section of the Code in question,
we are of opinion that it must be conceded that these
authorities do not coincide with the significance attributed to the article of the Code under consideration
stated by Scaevola in the passage ;ust quoted. Because
of this situation we do not particularly refer to the authorities last relied upon since at best we can find nothing
in them to relieve us of the duty of interpreting the
section in question or which renders the performance
of the -duty of interpretation less difficult. In view of
this situation we come to consider the subject with which
the article deals primarily from the point of view of historical evolution in order if possible to throw light on
the doctrinal conditions which led to the incorporation
of the article into the Spanish Code and thus ascertain
the intent and purpose which controlled its enactment

OCTOBER TERM, 114..
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

and then to interpret the provision from that vantage
point.
Speaking in a general sense, before the Code Napoleon,
certainly in the provinces more largely influenced by
the Roman law,, the doctrine of the right of a possessor
in good faith to retain the fruits and revenues in case
of eviction was firmly established. It was also equally
clearly recognized. that the bad faith of the author was
attributable to one holding under him as an heir or universal successor. If complexities obtained in the appli'cation of the doctrine, they in a large measure resulted
from questions concerning the burden of proof as to
good or bad faith. Pothier De la Proprit6, n. 332 et
336; Domat Lois civ., 1 re part., liv. 3, tit. 5, n. 14. And
see also a statement of Laurent on the subject, t. 6, n. 221.
The general doctrine as to non-liability for fruits and
revenues on eviction in case of good faith was embodied
in the Code Napoleon in Articles 549 and 550. Two
things came at an early day to be recognized under that
Code: First, that it had come to pass that so far as the
restitution of fruits and revenues was concerned, the
burden of proof to establish the absence of good faith
on the part of a possessor whose eviction was sought was
upon the one seeking the eviction. The doctrine as it
came to be crystallized is thus stated by Laurent, t. 6,
n. 225, p. 298: "According to the principles generally
prevailing the burden of proof would rest upon th possessor of property to prove his good faith. In effect under
general principles the owner seeking to recover property
would only be obliged to prove his right of property
and when that right was established, by that fact alone
the fruits of the property would belong to him as the
result of the general rule established by Article 547.
The possessor who claimed the fruits would then become
an actor on his own account and if the correct principles
were rigorously applied, he would be obliged to prove

LONGPRa v. DIAZ.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the foundation of his demand, that is to say, his good
faith. However, it is established that the possessor
under these circumstances is not obliged to prove his
good faith because by the text of Article 2268 good faith
is always presumed and the burden is cast upon him
who alleges bad faith to prove it."
Second. So also in some measure, it may be, because
of this view concerning the burden of proof and from
many other considerations, the preponderant opinion
sustained by judicial decisions and supported by doctrinal authority came to be that under the Code the
question of good faith was- a personal one, depending
so much upon considerations of that character that the
good faith of the possession of the author was one thing,
and the good faith of those holding under him, whether
heir or other successor, was another. From this it came
to be acknowledged that the right to retain fruits and
revenues in case of eviction might exist in favor of an
heir who was in good faith from the time of his possession,
although it was conclusively established that the author
or ancestor was 'inbad faith and the duty on the heft
would exist to return so much of the fruits and revenues
as accrued during the possession of the author. The
principle was upheld by the Court of Cassation in Parent
de Chassey C. La Commune de Monceaux-le-Comte, May,
1848, Journal Du Palais for 1849, Vol. I, p. 12. The doctrine was thus succinctly stated in one of the syllabi: "The
heir of a possessor in bad faith may successfully avoid
the restitution of the fruits in favor of the true proprietor
by setting up his own personal good faith." See also a
note to the case in which many authorities supporting
the doctrine are collected. Demolombe (Vol. IX, n. 613,
p. 558) thus states the strongly dominant opinion on
the subject: "We ask simply if the fruits which the heir
himself may have' collected during his possession belong
to him in virtue of his personal good faith. The affirma-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

tive seems today to have triumphed both in jurisprudence and in doctrine where it counts among its supporters
many authorities, of the most imposing character."
Among those cited are Marcad6, t. II, Art. 550, n. 2;
Toulier, t. II, p. 263; Demante, t. II, n. 385 bis. VIII;
and also a list of cases adjudged in rumerous intermediary
courts and courts of original jurisdiction.
The doctrinal writers in pointing out the personal
character of the question of good faith for the purpose
of ascertaining the duty to return fruits and revenues
frequently directed attention to the fact that it was
easy to conceive of a case where there might be bad faith
on the part of one possessing in virtue of his heirship and
good faith on the part of the author and vice versa. The
argument that to distinguish because of personal good
faith between an heir and his author who had been in
bad faith would be purely academic, since the heir in
virtue of his liability as heir for the obligation of his ancestor would be obliged to respond for all the fruits and
revenues as heir if not as possessor, was met by pointing
out that the effect of considering the question as one of
personal liability, while it did not break the continuity
of heirship, v as to sever the continuity of possession
and responsibility therefor and consequently to cause
it to result that while the heir as heir would be responsible
for the bad faith of the ancestor during his, the ancestor's,
term of possession, he would not be responsible as heir
for the term in which he. the heir, had possessed the property in good faith.
It is true, as pointed out by Demolombe, following the
passage previously quoted, that the doctrine of the personal character of the good or bad faith so far as the obligation to restore fruits and revenues in case of eviction was
concerned, was not universally accepted. It is true also
that such doctrine has not been applied under all the codes
which literally followed the Code Napoleon. Thus in

LONGPRR v. DIAZ.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Louisiana, where in substance the provisions. of the Code
Napoleon were incorporated in the Civil Code in Articles
3450, 3451, 3452 and 3453, the rule recognized in the law
of France before the Code Napoleon has been applied
in many decisions. But this subject need not be entered
into, since our purpose is not to discuss the relative merits
of the doctrine prevailing in France under the Code Napoleon as compared with the contrary view, but only to
make clear the fact of the prevalence of the doctrine in
France under the Code as a means of elucidating the
interpretation of the provisions of the Spanish Code not
only so far as they adopt the Code Napoleon, but as they
added new provisions on the subject in question.
Coining to so do and looking in a general way at the
text of Article 442 and Of the cognate articles immediately
associated with it in the Spanish Code, we are of the opinion that Article 442 and those dealing with the same subject were adopted for the express purpose of causing the
law under that Code to conform. to the principle of the
peronal character of the question of good faith so far as
the return of fruits and revenues was concerned in case
of eviction, and thus enable an heir who possessed in personal good faith to relieve himself from liability despite
the personal bad faith of his ancestor or author. In other
words we think that the new provisions were inserted in
order to adopt in the Spanish Code the dominant interpretation prevailing in France under the Code Napoleon
and to exclude the possibility of taking a contrary view.
The conviction in this regard which results from the general considerations of the text of the articles in the light
of the statements made becomes irresistibly certain if the
articles and their relation to each other are- closely examined. Thus it is to be observed that while in France
the duty to show the absence of good faith, which was one
of the generating causes from which the doctrme of thi
personal character of the responsibility was deduced, was
VOL. ccxxxvii-34

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

expressed in a general provision of the Code Napoleon not
associated with the question of responsibility to return
fruits and revenues, in this instance that provision was
grouped in direct and immediate association with the
article under consideration as if to remove all possible
question of its application to the subject. Moreover, the
careful manner in which the article expresses the distinction between the liability of the heir as heir to return
fruits and revenues during the possession by the ancestor
in bad faith and the want of liability to return such revenues during the period of possession by the heir in good.
faith serves palpably to emphasize the dissociation between

the continuity of heirship and the break in the continuity
of possession for the purpose of the return of fruits and
revenues lying at the basis of the doctrine of the personal
character of the question of good faith which came to be
established under the Code NapoleoD.
And this view of the meaning of the text and of its purpose and intent makes clear that it would be impossible
to adopt the interpretation stated in the Commentaries
of Scaevola to which we have previously referred. We
say this because that interpretation rests upon the existence of an assumed presumption of an examination by
an heir of the title deeds of his ancestor or author which
cannot be indulged in without disregarding the rule as to
burden of, proof which Article 434 (§437 of the Porto
Rican Code) directly ordains. Besides when it is considered that the interpretation referred to makes the heir
in good faith liable to return fruits and revenues because
of the bad faith of the ancestor only in cases where an
assumed presumption of an examination of the title papers
of an ancestor by an heir would apply, it would follow not
only that the burden of proof fixed by the statute would
be disregarded, but that the interpretation relied upon
would be inapplicable where the bad faith of the ancestor
arose from conditions dehors his title papers and which

ROYAL ARCANUM v. GREEN.
237 U. S.

Syllabus.

were not susceptible of being disclosed by an examination.
As under the provisions of § 444 of the Porto Rican
Code when rightly interpreted, in the absenrie of proof of
the bad faith of the defendants they were not liable for the
return of the fruits and revenues during the period of their
possession even although the bad faith of Mourraille,
their author, had been established during the period of his
possession, it follows that there was error in the refusal
of the court below to so instruct the jury and hence a
reversal must result and a new trial follow. Before,
however, so directing, we observe that we are of opinion
that the contention concerning the want of right of the
plaintiff to recover rents and revenues of the property sued
for for the period of his minority because of the administrative authority vested by law in his mother, under the
circumstances here disclosed was without merit, and that
such also is the case concerning the objection made to
the admissibility of testimony concerning the quantum of
fruits and revenues because of its speculative character.
The judgment therefore will be reversed and the case remanded for further proceedings in conformity with this
opinion.
Reversed.

SUPREME COUNCIL OF THE ROYAL ARCANUM
v. GREEN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 106.

Argued December 8, 9, 1914.-Decided June 1, 1915.

Where the trial court refuses to hold that the rights of the parties were
to be determined by the law of another State in which a decree had
been rendered establishing them and to apply such law, it refuses
to give due effect to such decree, and a question arises under the full

