OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Counsel for Parties.

237 U. S.

other manner, and just as he might procure a discharge
of any judgment against him, the amount of which had
been collected by suit thereon in another State."
What has been said sufficiently discloses that the Federal questions raised in the case were so plainly devoid of
merit as to afford no basis for a review in this court.
Writ of error dismissed.

STATE OF GEORGIA v. TENNESSEE COPPER
COMPANY AND DUCKTOWN SULPHUR, COPPER & IRON COMPANY, LIMITED.
MOTION TO ENTER A FINAL DECREE AGAINST THE DUCKTOWN SULPHUR, COPPER & IRON COMPANY, -LIMITED.
No. 1, Original.

Argued April 6, 7, 1915.-Decided May 10, 1915.

The defendant Ducktown Sulphur Copper & Iron Company and the
State of Georgia not having agreed as to the method of operation of the
furnaces of the former and additional testimony having been taken
relating toalleged changed conditions since 1907 and it appearing that
the furnaces ar6 emitting fumes in excess of what is proper held that:
A final decree against the Ducktown Company be now entered
restraining it from operating its plant except upon the terms
specified therein; the cause to be retained for further action and
either side may present a decree in conformity with this decision.
Final decree ordered in 206 U. S. 230, against defendant Ducktown
Company.
THE facts, which involve questions of nuisance arising
from fumes from smelting ore and the power of the court
to enjoin the same at the instance of a State, are stated
in the opinion.

Mr. Warren Grice and Mr. J. A. Drake, with whom
Mr. Lamar Hill was on the brief, for complainant.

GEORGIA v. TENNESSEE COPPER CO.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. J. A. Fowler and Mr. W. B. Miller for defendant
Ducktown Company.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of

the court.
Both defendants are smelting copper ores in Polk
County, East Tennessee, near the Georgia line. The
works of the Tennessee Company, much the larger of
the two, are situated within half a mile of the line; those
of the Ducktown Company are some two and one-half
miles away. The ores contain a very large amount of
sulphur-around 20%-and in the process of smelting
great quantities of sulphur dioxide are formed; if allowed
to escape into-,the air this becomes sulphurous acid, a
poisonous gas destructive of plant life.
In October, 1905, the State of Georgia began this
Original proceeding alleging that defendants permitted
discharge from their works of noxious gases which being
carried by air currents ultimately settled upon its territory and destroyed the vegetation, and asking for appropriate relief. The case was heard on the merits and
the issues determined in complainant's favor, May, 1907.
We then said: "If the State of Georgia adheres to its
determination, there is no alternative to issuing an injunction, after allowing a reasonable time to the defendants to complete the structures that they now are building, and the efforts that they are making, to stop the
fumes. The plaintiff may submit a form of decree on the
coming in of this court in October next." 206 U. S. 230,
239.
Hope was entertained that some practical method of
subduing the noxious fumes could be devised and by
consent the time for entering a final decree was enlarged.
Both companies installed purifying devices. The Tennessee Company and the State finally entered into a stipula-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

tion whereby the former undertook annually to supply
a fund to compensate those injured by fumes from its
works, to conduct its plant subject to inspection in specified ways, and between April 10th and October 1st not
to "operate more green ore furnaces than it finds necessary to permit of operating its sulphuric acid plant at its
normal full capacity." The State agreed to refrain from
asking an injunction prior to October, 1916, if the stipulation was fully observed. The Ducktown Company
and the State were unable to agree, and in February, 1914,
the latter moved for a decree according a perpetual injunction. Consideration of the matter was postponed upon
representation that conditions had materially changed
since 1907, and leave was granted to present additional
testimony "to relate solely to the changed conditions,
if any, which may have arisen since the case was here
decided." A mass of conflicting evidence has been submitted for our consideration.
The Ducktown Company has spent large sums$600,000 and more-since the former opinion in constructing purifying works (acid plant); and a much smaller
proportion of the sulphur contained'in the ores now escapes into the* air as sulphur dioxide-possibly only
41Y2% as against 85Y2 % under former conditions. Similar improvements have been installed by the Tennessee
Company at great expense, but we are without adequate
information concerning the effect produced by them. As
it asked and was granted opportunity to show material
changes the burden is upon the Ducktown Company.
A full and complete disclosure of the improvements installed by it and the results continuously obtained has
not been presented.
Counsel maintain that escaping sulphur fumes now
produce no substantial damage in Georgia, and further
that if any such damage is being done the Tennessee
Company alone is responsible therefor. We think the

GEORGIA v. TENNESSEE COPPER CO.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

proof fails to support either branch of the defense, and
the State should have a decree adequate to diminish
materially the present probability of damage to its citizens.
The evidence does not disclose with accuracy the volume
or true character of the fumes which are being given off
daily from the works of either company. Averages may
not be relied on with confidence since improper operations
for a single week or day might destroy vegetation over a
large area, while the emission of great quantities of fumes
during a short period would affect but slightly the average
for a month or year.
It appears that in 1913 the total ores smelted by the
Ducktown Company amounted to 152,249 tons, or
304,498,000 pounds-20% sulphur; total matte shipped
was 12,537,000 pounds-about 4% of the ore; the total
sulphur in the smelted ores not accounted for and which
escaped into the air in the form of sulphur dioxide was
13,102 tons, or 26,204,000 pounds-over two pounds of
sulphur for each pound of matte and an average of more
than 35 tons per day.
During July, 1913, the 'total matte shipped (approximately the production) was 846,000 pounds-more was
shipped in June and less .in August. The July production was thus approximately 7% of the year's total.
The sulphur in the fumes generated in connection with
the production for this month, not redeemed by the
acid plant and emitted into the air, may be fairly estimated as not less than 7% of 13,102 ,or.917 tons-sub.stantially 30 tons per day. This amount produced harmful results and must be diminished.
It is impossible from the record to ascertain with certainty the reduction in the sulphur content of emitted
gases necessary to render the territory of Georgia immune
from injury therefrom; but adequate relief, we are disposed to think, will follow a decree restraining the Duck-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

town Company from continuing to operate its plant
otherwise than upon the terms and conditions following:
(1) It shall keep daily records showing fully and in detail
the course and result of the operations. (2) A competent
inspector to be appointed by this court shall have access
to all the books and records of the Company, shall make
frequent careful observations of the conditions-at least
once each fortnight-during the next six months, and
at the end of that time shall make full report with appropriate recommendations. An adequate sum to cover
the necessary costs and expenses must be deposited with
the Clerk by the Company. (3) It shall not permit
the escape into the air of fumes carrying more than 45%
of the sulphur contained in the green ore subjected to
smelting. (4) It shall not permit escape into the air of
gases the total sulphur content of which shall exceed 20
tons during one day from April 10th to October 1st of
each year or exceed 40 tons in one day during any other
season.
The cause will be retained for further action and either
party may apply hereafter for appropriate relief.
Within ten days either side may present a decree in
conformity herewith, together with such suggestions as
seem desirable.
dissenting: I do not think that
the evidence Justifies the decree limiting production as
stated.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE and MR. JUSTICE HOLMES join
in this dissent.
MR. JUSTICE HUGHES,

See page 678, post, for decree entered in conformity
with this opinion.

