OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

237 U. S.

Those instruments may be resorted to as a basis for calculating the compensation of the attorneys, irrespective

of any question about their effect as assignments because
of § 3477, Rev. Stat. Nutt v. Knut 200 U. S. 12, 21.
And the first and foundation agreement in terms provides

that it shall not be affected by any revocation of the authority granted to Mr. McGowan, nor by any services

rendered by others, or by Parish himself.
The decree of the Court of Appeals is reversed, and the
cause remanded, with directions to affirm the decree of
the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia and direct
the latter court to take further proceedings thereon, if
necessary, in accordance with the views above expressed.

Reversed.

LOUISVILLE AND NASHVILLE RAILROAD COMPANY v. WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 183.

Argued March 9, 1915.-Decided April 12, 1915.

Where the jurisdiction of the District Court to which the case is removed from the state court depends entirely upon diverse citizenship, the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is final under
§ 128, Jud. Code.
Where the foundation of the right claimpd is a state law, the suit to
assert it arises under that law, none the less because it has attached
a condition that only Federal legislature can fulfil; such a case is
not one arising under the law of the United States, under § 24, Jud.
Code.
Where a proceeding brought by a telegraph company, permitted to
operate within the State, against a railroad company, to acquire
rights by judgment expropriation which is based on the state statute,
is removed to the District Court on account of diverse citizenship,

LOUIS & NASH. R. R. v. WEST. UN. TEL. CO.
237 U. S.

301

Opinion of the Court.

the case is not one arising under the laws of the United States simply
because the telegraph company in its bill alleged that it had accepted
the provisions of the Federal Post Road and Telegraph Act of
July 4, 1866.
Writ of error to review, 203 Fed. Rep. 1022, dismissed.
THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court
to review judgments of the Circuit Court of Appeals and
the finality of such judgments under § 128, Judicial Code,
are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Victor Leovy and Mr. John G. Johnson, with whom
Mr. Henry L. Stone and Mr. George Denegre were on the

brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Rush Taggart, with whom Mr. Charles P. Fenner

and Mr. George H. Fearons were on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit brought by the Telegraph Company,
originally in a state court, to acquire 'the right of use for
a telegraph line over the right of way, bridges and property' of the Railroad Company, subject to the Railroad's
dominant right, by 'judgment expropriation.' By an
amendment filed on May 21, 1912, the Telegraph Company alleged that it had accepted the provisions of the
Act of Congress of July 24, 1866 (c. 230; 14 Stat. 221;
see Rev. Sts., §§ 5263, et seq.); but did not disclose the
purpose of the allegation. The case was removed to the
District Court of the United States on June 17, 1912.
There was a trial, a condemnation of the right to the
plaintiff upon payment of a sum fixed by verdict, and a
judgment, subject to exceptions, which was affirmed without an opinion by the Circuit Court of Appeals. This
statement is sufficient, or nearly so, to show that there
is a question as to the jurisdiction of this court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

If the jurisdiction below was dependent entirely upon
the opposite parties being citizens of different States-the
Telegraph Company of New York, the Railroad of Kentucky-this writ of error must be dismissed under § 128
of the Judicial Code. Act of March 3, 1911, c. 231, 36
Stat. 1087. The only basis for any other ground of jurisdiction is the unexplained averment of acceptance of the
Act of 1866. The question is whether that averment discloses such a ground.
The jurisdiction to be exercised was to expropriate by
judgment. But it was well known to the Telegraph Company from a series of decisions to which it was party that
the Act of 1866 was merely permissive and gave no power
to exercise eminent domain. The latest decision, repeating many earlier ones, was rendered a month and a half
before this amendment was filed. West. Un. Tel. Co. v.
Richmond, 224 U. S. 160. There was not even color of
jurisdiction on the ground that the taking was by force
of the Act of 1866. West. Un. Tel. Co. v. An Arbor R. R.,
178 U. S.239.
The only other that occurs to us is that, under the statutes of Louisiana as construed, the Telegraph Company
could not maintain this suit if, by the law creating it, it
was prohibited from operating in Louisiana, and that the
power given by the Act of 1866 excluded such a prohibition and brought the Company within the benefit of the
Louisiana expropriation statute. As. we have said, the
purpose of the allegation is not explained, and the plaintiff
did not admit the necessity of resorting to laws other than
those of New York for its powers. But supposing without
implying that the Statute of 1866 had to be relied upon to
bring the Telegraph Company within the Louisiana Act
and would have that effect, still it would not be a ground
of jurisdiction. If the jurisdiction of the United States
court does not depend entirely upon diversity of citizenship it is because the suit arises under the laws of the

ROUNDS v. CLOVERPORT FOUNDRY.
237 U. S.

Syllabus.

United States. Judicial Code, § 24. But when, as here,
the foundation of the right claimed is a state law, the suit
to assert it arises under the state law none the less that
the state law has attached a condition that only alien legislation can fulfil. The state law is the sole determinant of
the conditions supposed, and its reference elsewhere for
their fulfilment is like the reference to a document that it
adopts and makes part of itself. The suit is not maintained by virtue of the Act of Congress but by virtue of
the Louisiana statute that allows itself to be satisfied by
that Act. See Interstate Street Ry. v. Massachusetts, 207
U. S. 79, 84.
Writ of error dismissed.
MR. JUSTICE McKENNA and MR. JUSTICE LAmAR

dis-

sent.

ROUNDS v. CLOVERPORT FOUNDRY AND MACHINE COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF

KENTUCKY.
No. 669. 'Submitted February 23, 1915.-Decided April 19, 1915.
In an action in personam the state court has jurisdiction to issue an
auxiliary attachment against the vessel whether or not the contract
be of a maritime nature.
While a proceeding in rem, as one essentially against the vessel itself,
is within the exclusive jurisdiction of the admiralty, an action in
personam with concurrent remedy of attachment to secure payment
of a personal judgment is within the jurisdiction of the state court
even though such attachment, if auxiliary to the remedy in personam,
runs specifically against the vessel under a state statute providing
for a lien.

