CHOTT v. EWING.
237 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

refusing to apply the due process clause and preventing
that from being done which is by it forbidden and which
if done would be void and not entitled to enforcement
under the full faith and credit clause. The two clauses
are harmonious and because the one may be applicable
to prevent a void judgment being enforced affords no
ground for denying efficacy to the other in order to permit

a void judgment. to be rendered.
Reversed.

UNITED STATES EX REL. CHOTT v. EWING,
COMMISSIONER OF PATENTS.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 194. Argued March 10, 11, 1915.-Decided April 12, 1915.
The provisions of the Judicial Code in regard to the jurisdiction of
this court were obviously intended not to increase its jurisdiction
but to reduce it.
Although when considered isolatedly there may be conflict between the
provisions of the fifth, and of the concluding paragraph of § 250 of
the Judicial Code, that conflict can be eliminated by applying the
elementary rules of construction of turning primarily to the context
of the section and secondarily to provisions in pari materia.
Paragraph V of § 250 of the Judicial Code, concerning the validity
of an authority of the United States, confers no jurisdiction on this
court to review a judgment of the Court of Appeals of the District
of Columbia where the question of authority arises under the patent
laws of the United States; judgment in such cases is made final by
the concluding paragraph of § 250, unless this court exercises its
rights of certiorari or the Court of Appeals certifies questions to this
court as provided by that paragraph.
Writ of error to review 40 App. D. C. 591, dismissed.
THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court
to review judgments of the Court of Appeals of the Dis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

trict of Columbia under § 250 of the Judicial Code, are
stated in the opinion.
Mr. Joshua R. H. Potts for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Warren, with whom
Mr. R. F. Whitehead and Mr. W. S. Ruckman were on
the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of

the court.
A brief statement of the origin and nature of the controversy is essential to an understanding of the questions
which we are called upon to decide. The relator applied
for a patent. His claim was rejected by the primary
examiner. He appealed to the Board of Examiners in
Chief, and that body, disagreeing with the primary examiner, reversed his decision and sustained the claims
of the patent. By authority of the Commissioner the
primary examiner 'then made a further investigation
and directed the attention of the Commissioner to additional patents which it was deemed demonstrated that
the invention was not patentable. Thereupon the Commissioner, coinciding with such opinion, approved the
action of the primary examiner and decided that the
invention was not patentable. The Commissioner, however, did not then formally reject the claim to patent
but wrote to the applicant calling attention to the authority of the Commissioner to review the case personally
despite the favorable action of the Board of Examiners
in Chief and assigning a day when a hearing would be
afforded as to the patentability of the invention. The
applicant challenged the right of the Commissioner to
act in the premises and insisted that as a result of the
conclusions of the Board of Examiners in Chief he was

CHOTT v. EWING.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

entitled to a patent and that it was the plain ministerial
duty of the Commissioner to direct it to issue. The
Commissioner then -filed an opinion insisting upon his
authority and pointing out the reasons which caused him
to conclude that the invention was not patentable. The
opinion concluded with; the statement, "I am clearly
of the opinion that the application sets forth nothing upon
which a patent can properly be based. The claims are
therefore rejected and the patent refued. Appeal from
this decision to the Court of Appeals should be taken,
if at all, within the time prescribed by the rules of that
court."
Instead of taking the appeal as thus suggested, the
relator commenced this proceeding by mandamus in the
Supreme Court of the District to compel the issue of the
patent. From a judgment in his favor ordering the mandamus as prayed the Commissioner and the primary
examiner prosecuted error to the Court of Appeals. That
court, concluding that it was without authority to control the Commissioner in the performance of his administrative duties by the writ of mandamus, reversed the
action of the trial court, directed the dismissal of the
application for mandamus, reserving however the right
of the relator to seek by appeal (Rev. Stat. § 4911) the
redress of any wrong which it was deemed had been committed by the Commissioner in refusing to direct the
issue of the patent, and this writ of error is prosecuted
to that judgment. 40 App. D. C. 591.
At the threshold our jurisdiction to review is disputed
on the ground that the concluding paragraph of § 250
of the Judicial Code upon which our jurisdiction depends
provides that "Except as provided in the next succeeding section, the judgments and decrees of said Court of
Appeals [of the District of Columbia] shall be final in
all cases arising under the patent laws," and that the
exception embraced in the subsequent section includes

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

only- the discretionary right to certiorari and the power
of the Court of Appeals to certify a question under the
circumstances provided. On the other hand, it is insisted jurisdiction obtains because of the right of this
court to review the judgments and decrees of the Court
of Appeals of the District conferred by the fifth paragraph
of § 250, that is, "in cases in which the validity of any
authority exercised under the United States, or the existence or scope of any power or duty of an officer of the
United States is drawn in question." Our jurisdiction
is therefore to be determined by fixing the meaning of
these two provisions. It cannot be doubted that isolatedly
considering the text of the fifth paragraph the controversy comes within its terms, that is, it involves the
validity of an authority exercised under the United States
or draws in question the existence or scope of the power
of an officer of the United States. So also it is not substantially disputable, although the contrary is argued,
that isolatedly considered the case is excluded from our
jurisdiction because it is within the last paragraph of
§ 250, that is, is one arising under the patent laws since
it depends upon those laws and concerns the very right
and authority to issue a patent as provided by those
laws. Looked at isolatedly, therefore, there is absolute
conflict between the two provisions. But even if the
method of isolated consideration were not otherwise
plainly a mistaken one, it follows that it cannot be adopted
since it affords no possible solution of the controversy.
Such solution must therefore be sought by following
the elementary rules, that is, by turning primarily to
the context of the section and secondarily to provisions
in pari materia as affording an efficient means for discovering the legislative intent in enacting the statute
thereby vivifying and enforcing the remedial purposes
which it was adopted to accomplish.
From the point of view of the context, as it is manifest

CHOTT v. EWING.

237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that the provisions in the concluding clause were enacted
as exceptions or limitations upon the grant of jurisdiction contained in the previous passage of § 250, it clearly
results that it was not contemplated that the power
conferred by the fifth paragraph would extend to and
embrace the cases wherein by the last paragraph the
judgments or decrees of the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia were made final. This being true, it
hence also is necessarily true that the fifth paragraph
concerning the validity of an authority confers no jurisdiction on this court to review a case where the question of authority arises under the patent laws of the
United States. Indeed it would be very unreasonable
to assume that jurisdiction was conferred to review the
action of the Court of Appeals in all cases in which its
authority was exerted to direct the officials of the Patent
Office under the patent laws to issue a patent, and yet
no power was reserved to review the action of that court
in determining after the issue of a patent whether it
was or was not rightfully issued. And the cogency of
this view becomes at once apparent when it is considered
that prior to the enactment of the Judicial Code, under
§ 233 of the District Cuae (31 Stat. 1227). jurisdiction
of this court to review the judgments or decrees of the
Court of Appeals of the District embraced cases "without
regard to the sum or value of the matter in dispute,
wherein is involved the validity of any patent," a provision not preserved in § 250 of the Judicial Code. But
the question is hardly an open .Jne since it has been expressly held that the power does not exist in this court
to review the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia
in a criminal case which would obtain under § 250 but
for the provision of the last paragraph making final the
action of that court in criminal cases. Gompers v. United
States, 233 U. S. 604. And by analogy a like consideration when applied to the sections of the statute concern-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ing the jurisdiction of this court to review the judgments
of Circuit Courts of Appeals has led to a like conclusion.
Macfadden v. United States, 213 U. S. 288. Besides,
when looked at comprehensively, in view of the fact
that the provisions of the Judicial Code were obviously
intended not to enlarge the jurisdiction of this court but
to relieve it, and considering in this light the omissions
and the limitations therein expressed and the power to
certiorari stated in § 251, the conclusion is irresistible
that the intent and purpose of the act was, while narrowing the imperative jurisdiction, to create an equipoise
by extending the voluntary or discretionary exercise of
jurisdiction by means of the writ of certiorari,-a purpose
which would be wholly frustrated if the contention as
to jurisdiction now insisted upon were sustained.
Dismissedfor want of jurisdiction.

SOUTHERN

PACIFIC COMPANY
STATES.

v. 'UNITED

APPEAI4 FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 202. Submitted March 11, 1915.-Decided April 12, 1915.
Where a railroad company transports property and troops of the United
States over a continuous line of railroad part of which is free-haul
and the remaining part is pay line, the character of the shipment
fixes the rate and the Government can be charged a proportionate
part of the through rate only, and not the local rate on that part of
the haul which is over the pay line.
A provision in a railroad land grant statute that the government shall
always have the right to ship over the line at fair and reasonable rates
not to exceed those paid by private parties entitles the Government

