OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

DANIELS v. MERRITHEW.
SAME v. SACKVILLE.
SAME v. MESERVEY.
SAME v. JOHNSON.
SAME .v. MANNING.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
Nos. 237, 238, 245, 246, 247. Argued April 21, 22, 1915.-Decided
June 1, 1915.

Decided on authority of Daniels v. Wagner, ante, p. 547.
An assertion that one seeking to exchange lands under the Forest
Reserve Act of June 4, 1897 is not entitled to make the exchange
is devoid of merit where the bill shows that the Secretary expressly
found that the applicant had acted in good faith.
205 Fed. Rep. 235, reversed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Harrison G. Platt, with whom Mr. Robert Treat
Platt and Mr. Hugh Montgomery were on the brief, for

appellant.
Mr. A. W. Lafferty, with whom Mr. P. A. Lafferty,
Mr. H. M. Manning and Mr. Arthur I. Moulton were

on the brief, for appellees.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of

the court.
These five cases were among the fourteen referred to
in the opinion in Daniels v. Wagner, No. 239, just de-

DANIELS v. MERRITHEW.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the-Court.

cided, ante, p. 547. For the appellant they were argued
in the brief which was filed in No. 239 and which was
stated to be applicable to the other fourteen cases. 'But
for the appellees a brief was filed applicable to these
five cases. In this brief nothing is said to maintain the
existence of the discretionary power under
which the
Land Department acted and which we have decided in
No 239 was not possessed, the brief stating that the subject is irrelevant because the correctness of the action
of the Land Department and the court below in sustaining the demurrers is. maintainable on other grounds, as
follows:
1. Because of the failure of the lieu entrymen to file
in time the relinquishment made by the State of Oregon
and the assumed resulting priority of the rights of the
other entrymen over those of the lieu entrymen. But
this contention is governed by the ruling made in No. 239
on the same subject, since we directed attention to the
specific finding of the Secretary of the Interior to the
contrary and pointed out its binding force.
2. In addition various propositions are urged concerning the bad faith of Daniels in buying the right to
the land from the State and the assumption, based upon
this premise, of his want of right to the relinquishment
or to use it in order to clear away the supposed impediment on the land record to the allowance of the lieu
entries. But even assuming for the sake of argument
that the premise of fact upon which this contention
proceeded had any real relevancy to the right of the
lieu entrymen to acquire the land and to use the relinquishment to enable them to do so, such premise is devoid
of merit because of the express finding of the Secretary
of the Interior which we have stated in the opinion in
No. 239 that Daniels' good faith in the Oregon transaction was established. It is true that- the argument in
these cases in an indirect way seemingly assails the cor-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Counsel for Parties.

237 U. S.

rectness of this finding, but as it is conclusive here nothing

more need be said on that subject.
It results that these cases both as to law and the facts
are disposed of by the opinion expressed in No. 239.
The decrees sustaining the demurrers in these cases are
therefore reversed and they are remanded for ftfrther
proceedings in accordance with the opinion in this and
in Dhniels v. Wagner, ante, p. 547.
Reversed.

DANIELS v. BERNHARD.
SAME v. HOWARD.
SAME v. LEONARD.
SAME v. WAKEFIELD.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

Nos. 241, 242, 243, 244.

Argued April 21, 1915.-Decided June 1, 1915.

Decided on authority of Daniels v. Wagner, ante, p. 547.
One who has complied with all necessary steps to obtain lieu lands
under the Forest Reserve Act of June 4, 1897, is not confined to the
remedy of mandamus against the Secretary of the Interior. He may
proceed by action against the party to whom the patent was issued.
Osborn v. Froyseth, 216 U. S. 571, distinguished.
205 Fed. Rep. 235, reversed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Harrison G. Platt, with whom Mr. Robert Treat

