COE v. ARMOUR FERTILIZER WORKS.
237 U. S.

Syllabus.

signed to protect. That they carried no caboose or markers is not material. If it were, all freight trains could
easily be put beyond the reach of the statute and its
remedial purpose defeated. Neither is it material that
the men in charge were designated as yard or switching
crews, for the controlling test of the statute's application
lies in the essential nature of the work done rather than
in the names applied tc those engaged in it.

The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals must
therefore be reversed and that of the District Court affinned.
It is so ordered.

MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

COE v. ARMOUR FERIILIZER WORKS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF FLORIDA.
No. 140.

Submitted January 20, 1915.-Decided May 3, 1915.

Where the case was tried twice below and twice went to the highest
court of the State and the Federal question was decided adversely
to plaintiff in error on the first appeal, he is not concluded thereby
because he failed to then take a writ of error if it appears that the
first judgment of the higher court did not finally dispose of the
case but required further proceedings in the court below.
Not until the judgment of the court of last resort is final will a writ of
error lie to this court under § 237 Judicial Code.
The contention that under the local practice on a second writ of error
to the Supreme Court of the State a Federal question that was passed
on at the first hearing is not open, cannot be sustained in this court
if as a matter of fact the state court did pass on the question on the
second hearing and decide it adversely to plaintiff in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Statement of the Case.

237 U. S.

Any course of procedure having for its object the taking of property
to satisfy an alleged legal obligation without according any hearing
to a respectful protest invoking the supreme law of the land cannot
be regarded as due process of law.
Section 2677, General Statutes of Florida of 1906 as amended in 1909,
as construed by the highest court of the State, is repugnant to the
due process provision of the Fourteenth. Amendment in so far as it
allows, after execution has been returned "no property" against a
corporation,an execution to issue against a stockholder for the same
debt to be enforced against his property to the extent of his unpaid
subscription as the same appears on the books of the corporation
without notice to such stockholder or other preliminary step.
While a judgment against a corporation without fraud or collusion in a
court having jurisdiction may be made conclusive upon the stockholder, as to existence and amount of the debt, the property of a
third party may not be taken to satisfy that debt upon the ground
that he is a stockholder and indebted to the corporation without
granting him an opportunity to be heard.
One protesting against his property being taken without due process
of law cannot be denied such process on the ground that due process
would lead to the same result as he had no defense on the merits.
Extra-official or casual notice, or a hearing granted as matter of favor
or discretion, does not take the place of the notice with right and opportunity to be heard which the due process provision of the Federal
Constitution requires.
In this case the execution was not a mere attachment establishing a
lien without going further until after opportunity to be heard.
Where defendant comes into court for the sole purpose of objecting on
jurisdictional grounds to the execution of final process against his
property his petition cannot, under the due process provision of the
Fourteenth Amendment, be converted into a tender of an -issue of
fact respecting his status as a stockholder so as to conclude him on
a matter not within the pleadings and which was not litigated.
63 Florida, 64, reversed.

which involve the constitutionality of
§ 2677, General Statutes of Florida of 1906, as amended
by the act of 1909, c. 5802, relating to the liability of
stockholders for judgment debts of the' corporation to the
extent of their subscriptions remaining unpaid, are stated
in the opinion.
THE

facts,

COE v. ARMOUR FERTILIZER WORKS.
237 U. S.

415

Argument for Defendant in. Error.

Mr. W. A. Carterfor plaintiff in error:
The statute is unconstitutional, as violating the Fourteenth Amendment. In re Rosser, 101 Fed. Rep. 562, 567;
Louisville Trust Co. v. Cominger, 184 U. S. 18; Rouse v.
Donovan, 62 N. W. Rep. 359; Lauder v. Tillia, 11 Atl. Rep.
86; Lauder v. Logan, 16 Atl. Rep. 44; Wilson v. Seligman,
36 Fed. Rep. 154; Pennoyer v. Neff, 95 U. S. 714.
Notice to stockholder is necessary to charge him for
corporate debts. Thompson on Corps., §§ 3596, 3598,
3591, 3602.
Hampson v. Weare, 4 Iowa, 12; Donworth v. Coolbaugh,
5 Iowa, 300; Bank of Columbia v. Okely, 4 Wheat. 326;
Bernheimer v. Converse, 206 U. S. 5-16; Straw Co. v. Kilbourne Boot Co., 80 Minnesota, 125, relied upon by defendant in error can be distinguished.
Mr. 0. K. Reaves for defendant in error:
The first decision of the Supreme Court of Florida has
become the law of this case and cannot be changed by
this writ of error from.the second decision of said Supreme
Court. Valdosta Mercantile Co. v. White, 56 Florida, 704;
Anderson v. Northrop, 44 Florida, 472; McKinnon v.
Johnson, 57 Florida, 120; Knight v. State, 44 Florida, 94;
Clark v. Keith, 106 U. S. 464; Supervisors v. Kennicott,
94 U. S. 499; Browder v. McArthur, 7 Wheat. 55; Ogden
v. Saunders, 12 Wheat. 332; Bell v. Niles, 61 Florida, 114;
Hoopes v. Crane, 56 Florida, 395; Dunellon Phosphate Co.
v. Crystal River Co. (Fla.), 58 So. Rep. 787.
The statute does not contravene the Fourteenth Amendment. 10 Cyc., p. 670, note 47; Eames v. Savage, 77
Maine, 212; Stanley v. Stanley, 26 Maine, 191; Vial v.
Penniman, 103 U. S. 714; Bernheimer v. Converse, 206
U. S. 516; Hampson v. Weare, 4 Iowa, 13; Armour Fertilizer
Works v. Parrish Vegetable Co., 63 Florida, 64; Bank v.
Okely, 4 Wheat. 233; Cooley's Const. Lim., 7th ed., 506;
Dutton Phosphate Co. v. Priest (Fla.), 65 So. Rep. 282;

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

Castillo v. McConnico, 168 U. S. 674; Blanchardv. Burrus,
20 Florida, 467; Louis. & Nash. R. R. v. Schmidt, 177
U. S. 230; State ex rel. Canfield, 40 Florida, 36; Barnett v.
Hickson (Fla.), 41 So. Rep. 606; Ex parte Scudamore,
55 Florida, 211.
Wilson v. Seligman, 36 Fed. Rep. 154; Pennoyer v.
Neff, 95 U. S. 714; Rouse v. Donovan, 62 N. W. Rep. 359;
Lauder v. Tillia, 11 Atl. Rep. 86, relied upon by plaintiff
in error distinguished.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY

delivered the opinion of the court.

The Armour Fertilizer Works, having recovered in the
Circuit Court for Manatee County, Florida, a judgment
for about $3,000 against the Parrish Vegetable & Fruit
Company, a corporation, sued out a writ of execution
against the goods and lands of that company and placed
it in the hands of the sheriff, who returned that he was
unable to find any property of the judgment debtor
whereon to levy. Thereupon, pursuant to § 2677, Gen.
Stat. Fla. 1906, as amended by act of 1909, c. 5892,
the Fertilizer Works sued out an execution against the
goods and lands of the plaintiff in error, Henry L. Coe,
as a stockholder of the Vegetable Company. This writ
set forth the recovery of the judgment by the Fertilizer
Works against the Company, mentioning the date, the
amount, and the court in which it was recovered, the
issuing of execution against that company and the return
thereon, and commanded that there be made of the
property of Coe, as one of the stockholders of the Company, "an amount equal to the amount remaining unpaid upon the subscription of the said Henry L. Coe to the
stock of said corporation." A formal levy was made
upon a parcel of land, the property of Coe, but there was
no interference with his possession, nor had any step been
taken towards selling the land, when Coe filed in the
Circuit Court a petition to quash the execution as issued

COE v. ARMOUR FERTILIZER WORKS.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

illegally, alleging that it had been issued without notice
to him and amounted to the taking of his property without due process of law, and that the statute permitting it
was void under the constitution of Florida, and was also
repugnant to the "due process" and "equal protection"
clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment. The Circuit
Court entered judgment in the following words: "The
execution is quashed, but not on the ground of unconstitutionality of the statute. The statute is constitutional,
but the execution cannot issue till some preliminary steps
are taken." The Fertilizer Works removed the cause by
writ of error to the Supreme Court of Florida, and that
court reversed the judgment (63 Florida, 64), holding that
the statute required no preliminary step to be taken before
an execution might be issued against a stockholder, and
that there was no general law or rule requiring previous
notice to him. The court further said:
"A stockholder of a corporation becomes such charged
with knowledge that under the statute upon the return
of nulla bona upon an execution issued against the corporation an execution may be issued against him for the
unpaid subscription to the stock he holds .......
The statute above quoted [sec. 2678, Gen. Stat. 1906,
set forth below] affords the means by which the officer
holding the execution may obtain definite information
as to the stockholders and the unpaid subscriptions on
the stock. If the person against whom the execution
is issued is not in fact a holder of stock upon which there
is unpaid subscription, or if the amount of the execution
is in excess of the unpaid subscription, the stockholder
may have appropriate relief under the statute providing
for the testing of the legality of executions. See Sections
1624 and 1625, Gen. Stats. of 1906."
The case went back to the Circuit Court with a mandate
"that such further proceedings be had in said cause as
according to right, justice, the judgment of said Supreme
VOL. ccxxxvi-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

Court, and the laws of the State of Florida, ought to be
had." It was again brought on for hearing before the Circuit Court, when, without further pleadings or evidence
on either side, judgment was rendered denying the motion
to quash. Upon Coe's writ of error, the Supreme Court
affirmed this judgment, for reasons expressed as follows:
"Coe does not claim that he was [not] in fact a stockholder, nor that there remains no balance due upon his
stock, nor seek to interpose any of the defenses pointed
out as open to him upon the former hearing, but stands
boldly on his attack upon the constitutionality of the act,
and by a proceeding unknown to our practice. There
does not appear to have been any forcible seizure of any
property of the said Coe, other than the formal levy
upon realty, which does not interfere with the owner's
possession. The statute presents many difficulties, that
may arise as to others not similarly situated, and may
as such be beyond the power of the legislature; but the
party now before this court has not brought himself within
the class who may justly complain, and the judgment
as to him, upon the authority of our former holding, is,
therefore, affirmed."
The present writ of error was then sued out.
Defendant in error moves to dismiss, upon the ground
that, according to the local practice, the opinion delivered
by the Supreme Court upon the first writ of error decided
the question involved and became the law of the case,
so that plaintiff in error, having failed to take a writ
of error upon that judgment, was thereafter concluded
by it. But, as appears from what has been stated, the
first decision did not conclude the litigation; it called for
further proceedings in the Circuit Court, and not until
the judgment rendered by that court on the going down
of the mandate had been affirmed upon the second writ
of error did there exist a final judgment in the court of
last resort of the state, such as might be brought under

COE v. ARMOUR FERTILIZER WORKS.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the review of this court by virtue of § 237, Jud. Code,
act of March 3, 1911, § 237, c. 231, 36 Stat. 1087, 1156.
Besides, the contention that, by the local practice, the
Federal question was not open for discussion or consideration upon the second writ of error is conclusively disposed of by the fact that the Supreme Court did, on that
occasion, again consider it, with the result that the
state law and the authority exercised under it were upheld as valid and not repugnant to the Constitution of
the United States, and the immunity especially set up
and claimed by plaintiff in error under that Constitution
was overruled. Nor. Car. R. R. v. Zachary, 232 U. S. 248,
257, and cases cited. The statement in the second opinion,
that the attack of plaintiff in error upon the constitutionality of the act was "by a proceeding unknown to our
practice," does not, we take it, mean that the court did
not necessarily pass upon the constitptional question.
We are not sure we clearly comprehend the meaning
of the expression quoted, in view of the effect attributed
to §§ 1624 and 1625 in this case and in earlier decisions
cited below. It would seem plain that any course of
procedure having for its object the taking of property
to satisfy an alleged legal obligation, and which yet accorded no hearing to a respectful protest invoking on
reasonable grounds a prohibition found in the supreme
law of the land, could itself hardly be termed "due process
of law." The constitutional guaranty is not to be thus
evaded, and we cannot believe there was any purpose to
evade it in this case. Upon the whole, the right of review
in this court is clear, and the motion to dismiss the writ
of error must be denied.
The Florida statutes upon which the controversy
turns are set forth in the margin. 1 That we may not
SEC.

'GEN. STAT. FLORIDA 1906
2677. (2152.) MAY ISSUE AGAINST STOCKHOLDERS.-If any

execution shall issue against the property or effects of any corporation,

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

misapprehend the construction placed upon them by
the state court of last resort, or the ground of its opinion
that they afforded due process of law to plaintiff in error,
and there cannot be found whereon to levy, then such execution may
be issued against any of the stockholders to an extent equal in amount
for so much as may remain unpaid upon the subscription and no further;
and all property whether real or personal of any stockholder ua any
corporation aforesaid shall be exempt from the debts and liabilities
of such corporation contracted in its corporate capacity, except the
stock of said stockholder of or in said corporation to the extent mentioned aforesaid.
[Amended by Florida Laws 1909, Ch. 5892, to read as follows:

2677. (2152.)

MAY

ISSUE

AGAINST STOCKHOLDERS.-If

any execu-

tion shall issue against the property or effects of any corporation,
and there cannot be found whereon to levy, then such execution may
be issued against any of the stockholders to an extent equal in amount
for so much as may remain unpaid upon their subscription to capital
stock and no further.]
2678. (2153.) CUSTODIAN OF RECORDS TO GIVE SHERIFF NECESSARY
INFORMATION.-The clerk or other officer having charge of the books,
records and papers of any corporation, on demand of any officer holding execution against the same, shall furnish such officer with the
name, places of residence and the amount of liability of every person
liable as aforesaid, and if such officer refuses so to do he shall, upon
complaint thereof, be liable to a fine not exceeding five hundred dollars.
1624. (1195.) UPON AFFIDAVIT OF ILLEGALITY AND BOtKD.-If any
execution shall issue "llegally, the defendant in exccution, his agent or
attorney, may procure a stay of the same by making and delivering
to the officer having the execution an affidavit stating the illegality
and whether any part of the execution be due, and a bond payable
to the plaintiff with two good and sufficient sureties in double the
amount of the execution or the part of which a stay is sought. Upon
receipt of such affidavit and bond the officer shall stay any proceeding
on the execution and return the bond and affidavit to the court from
which the execution issued, and such court shall pass upon the question of illegality as soon as possible. If the execution be adjudged
illegal in any part the court shall make an order staying it as to such
part, but if it be adjudged legal in whole or in part, the court shall
(or if it has a clerk, shall direct such clerk to) enter up judgment against
the principal and sureties on such bond for the amount of so much

COE v. ARMOUR FERTILIZER WORKS.
237 U. S.

421

Opinion of the Court.

it will be well to briefly review their history. Sections
2677 and 2678 trace their origin to §§ 22 and 23 of an act
of 1868 (Laws, p. 123, ch. 1639), which followed the
model of § 36 of the Companies Clauses Consolidation
Act 1845 (8 & 9 Vict. Cap. 16), except that they permitted execution against the stockholder to an extent
"equal in amount to the amount of stock by him owned,
together with any amount unpaid thereon." There was
a proviso, as in the English act, that no such execution
should issue except upon an order of the court, "made
upon motion in open court after good and sufficient
notice in writing to the person upon whom execution is
desired." These sections were repealed in 1874 (Laws,
p. 95, ch. 2016), and renacted in 1879, with insignificant
verbal modifications (Laws, p. 118, ch. 3165, §§ 9 and 10).
By an act of 1887 (Laws, p. 96, ch. 3729), the liability
of stockholders to the creditors of the corporation was
limited to "so much as may remain unpaid upon his or
her subscription." In the Revision of 1892 this limitation of the liability was engrafted upon the act of 1868
as reenacted in 1879, and at the same time the provision
for notice to*the stockholder prior to the issuing of the
execution was omitted. The result appeared as §§ 2152
and 2153 of that Revision, found as §§ 2677 and 2678
in the General Statutes of 1906. The amendment of
1909 was apparently passed for the purpose of bringing
the phraseology of the section into conformity with the
judicial construction, as declared in Knight & Wall Co. v.
Tampa S. L. B. Co., 55 Florida, 728, 743, 744.
Meanwhile, and from an early period, the laws of Florida
of the execution, as shall be adjudged to be legal, and execution shall
forthwith issue thereon.
1625. (1196.) UPON MorIoN.-The court before which an execution is returnable may, on a motion and notice to the adverse party,
for good cause, upon such, terms as the court may impose, direct
a stay of the same, and the suspension of proceedings thereon.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

have contained provisions for testing the legality of any
writ of execution upon application of the defendant
made after its issue. Sections 1624 and 1625, Florida
Gen. Stats. 1906, referred to in the opinion of the Supreme
Court above quoted, originated in acts of 1834 (Laws,
p. 13, ch. 742), and of 1844 (Laws, p. 54, § 6), concerning
which the court has repeatedly held that they provide
separate, consistent, and independent remedies; the one
by proceeding before the sheriff, the other before the
court or a judge in vacation; and that the courts of law
have full power to revoke, correct, restrain, or quash
their own process in the course of their ordinary jurisdiction, so that no recourse to a court of equity is necessary.
Mitchell v.. Duncan, 7 Florida, 13, 19; Robinson v. Yon,
8 Florida, 350, 354; Mathews v. Hillyer, 17 Florida, 498,
500; Barnett v. Hickson, 52 Florida, 457, 460.
We understand, therefore, that in the present case the
court held that under § 2677, as amended in 1909, on a
return of "no property" upon an execution against a
corporation, an execution may be issued against any
stockholder without notice to him or other preliminary
step; that the writ is to be enforced against his property
to the extent of his unpaid subscription to the stock that
he holds in the company, and this amount the officer
ascertains from the custodian of the records of the corporation, in accordance with § 2678; that if the person against
whom the execution is issued is not in fact a holder of
stock upon which there is an unpaid subscription, or if
the amount of the execution exceeds the unpaid subscription, he may have relief under §§ 1624 or 1625; and
that, in the absence of such objection on his part, the
execution is enforced, although there may have been
only a formal levy, without even such notice to the owner
of the property as might be implied from a forcible seizure
or an interference with his possession.
Thus construed, and as applied in this case, we think

COE v. ARMOUR FERTILIZER WORKS.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

§ 2677 is repugnant to, the "due process of law" provision
of the Fourteenth Amendment, which requires at least
a hearing, or an opportunity to be heard, in order to
warrant the taking of one's property to-satisfy his alleged
debt or obligation; and in our opinion the other, sections
do not adequately supply the defect.
It may be conceded that a judgment recovered against
a corporation, without fraud or collusion, in a court having
jurisdiction over the subject-matter, and the party, may
consistently with the Fourteenth Amendment be treated
as concluding the stockholder respecting the existence
and amount of the indebtedness so adjudged. Sanger v.
Upton, Assignee, 91 U. S. 56, 59; Hawkins 4. Glenn,
131 U. S. 319, 329; Glenn v. Liggett, 135 U. S. 533, 544;
Great Western Telegraph Co. v. Purdy, 162 U. S. 329, 337.
But before a third party's property may be taken to pay
that indebtedness upon the ground that he is a stockholder and indebted to the corporation for an unpaid
subscription, he is entitled, upon the most fundamental
principles, to a day in court and a hearing upon such
questions as whether the judgment is void or voidable
for want of jurisdiction or fraud, whether he is a stockholder and indebted, and other defenses personal to
himself. See Great. Western Telegraph Co. v. Purdy, ubi
supra; Bernheimer v. Converse, 206 U. S. 516, 528, 532;
Converse v. Hamilton, 224 U. S. 243, 256; Selig v. Hamilton,
234 U. S. 652, 660.
The suggestion that because, under §§ 1624 and 1625, a
hearing upon pertinent questions of fact may be had at
the instance of the alleged scockholder after the execution
issues and before interference with his possession or his
property- right, therefore plaintiff in error, having been
at liberty in this proceeding to raise meritorious questions,
is not "within the class who may justly complain," will
not withstand critical analysis.
The statute mentions no classes, and the state court

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.

Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

merely distinguished between those who complain and
those who do not. Against one and all, execution may be
issued without notice or hearing; the judgment against
the corporation, and the record of stockholdings -and
stock subscriptions found upon the books of the corporation, being treated as conclusive against those named
as stockholders. If a person against whom execution is
thus issued as for an unpaid stock subscription does not
happen to receive notice, extra-officially, or receiving it
makes no objection, his property is taken in satisfaction
of the corporation's debt-manifestly without due process
of law. But, it is said, plaintiff in error is not within that
class; he in fact learned of the execution before his property
was sold or even his possession was disturbed, and he
had an opportunity for a hearing in the present proceeding
as to all questions upon which his liability depended.
The fallacy of this is that it ignores the issue of law
raised by the petition of plaintiff in error, and substitutes
an issue of fact for which he was not summoned and which
he has not consented to litigate. To one who protests
against the taking 'of his property without due process
of law, it is no answer to say that in his particular case
due process of law would have led to the same result
because he had no adequate defense upon the merits.
Rees v. Watertown, 19 Wall. 107, 123.
Nor can extra-official or casual notice, or a hearing
granted as a matter of favor or discretion, be deemed a
substantial substitute for the due process of law that the
Constitution requires. In Stuart y. Palmer, 74 N. Y. 183,
188, which involved the validity of a statute providing
for assessing the expense of a local improvement upon the
lands benefited, but without notice to the owner, the
court said: "It is not enough that the owners may by
chance have notice, or that they may as a matter of
favor have a hearing. The law must require notice to
them, and give them the right to a hearing and an op-

COE v. ARMOUR FERTILIZER WORKS.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

portunity to be heard." The soundness of this doctrine
has repeatedly been recognized by this court. Thus, in
Security Trust Co. v. Lexington, 203 U. S. 323, 333, the
court, by Mr. Justice Peckham, said, with respect to an
assessment for back taxes: "If the statute did not provide
for a notice in any form, it is not material that as a matter
of grace or favor notice may have been given of the proposed assessment. It is not what notice, uncalled for by
the statute, the taxpayer may have received in a particular case that is material, but the question is, whether
any notice is provided for by the statute" (citing the New
York case). So, in Central of Georgia Ry. v. Wright, 207
U. S. 127, 138, the court said: "This notice must be provided as an essential part of the statutory provision
and not awarded as a mere matter of favor or grace."
In Roller v. Holly, 176 U. S.398, 409, the court declared:
"The right of a citizen to due process of law must rest
upon a basis more substantial than favor or discretion."
And in Louis. & Nash. R. R. v. Stock Yards Co., 212 U. S.
132, 144, it was said:" The law itself must save the parties'
rights, and not leave them to the discretion of the courts
as such."

The writ of execution cannot of itself be treated as
equivalent to a writ of attachment, establishing a lien
upon the stockholder's property, but going no further until
he has had an opportunity to show cause why that property
should not be applied to the payment of the corporation's
debt. Not only is such a purpose wholly unexpressed in
the writ, but such is not its normal function or effect, no
"day in court" is named, and there is no provision for
notice or monition by service, publication, mailing, or
otherwise. Windsor v. McVeigh, 93 U. S. 274, 279,
et-seq.; Grannis v. Ordean, 234 U. S. 385, 393.
This case bears no proper analogy to York v. Texas,
137 U. S. 15, 21; Kauffman v. Wootters, 138 U. S. 285;
and Western Indemnity Co. v. Rupp, 235 U. S.261, 272;

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

where it was held that a State, without violence to the
due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, may
so regulate its practice that a person who voluntarily
enters one of its courts to contest any question in a pending action-even a person appearing specially to object
that the court has not acquired jurisdiction over himmay be deemed to have submitted himself to the jurisdiction of the court for all purposes of the action, and
hence be bound by its determination of the merits if his
objection to the jurisdiction be overruled. For in this
case there was no pending action or issue; plaintiff in
error came into court to object, on jurisdictional grounds,
to the execution of final process upon his property. Apd
the effect of the decision under review was to convert
his petition, which simply raised an issue of law under
the state constitution and the Fourteenth Amendment
into a tender of an issue of fact respecting his status as a
stockholder and the amount of his unpaid subscription,
if any, and then to hold him concluded upon the latter
issue for failure to introduce evidence bearing upon it.
In doing this, the court in effect rendered judgment
against him upon a matter that was not within the pleadings and was not in fact litigated. To do this, without his
consent-and the record shows no consent-is contrary
to fundamental principles of justice. Reynolds v. Stockton), 140 U. S. 254, 268, 269.
Judgment reversed, and the cause remanded for further
.proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.

