McGOWAN v. PARISH.
237 U. S.

Syllabus.

McGOWAN v. PARISH.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA.
No. 150.

Argued January 25, 26, 1915.-Decided April 12, 1915.

The appellate jurisdiction of this court in all casc coming from the
Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia, under § 250, Judicial
Code, is general, except those coming under the first class specified
in § 250 in which the jurisdiction of the trial court is in issue and
is the only question certified.
Where, as in this case, the jurisdiction is invoked on a substantial
ground, other than that of jurisdiction, it extends to the determination of all questions presented by the record, irrespective of the disposition that may be made of the particular question on which the
appeal rests.
Where officers of the Government find that they do not have to invoke
the protection of Rev. Stat. § 3477 and are willing to pay the
amount of a claim upon the United States, or a portion thereof,
into court and so protect the rights of one claiming an interest in
the warrant, and all parties consent, and grounds for equity exist,
and it is not clear that there is an adequate remedy at law, the court
may acquire and exercise equity jurisdiction.
The right of defendant to object to equity jurisdiction on the ground
that there is an adequate remedy at law may be waived. Even
if the trial court might have dismissed the bill for want of jurisdiction of its own motion, if it did not do so, this court is not called
upon to pass upon the question.
A consent decree that the claimed portion of a warrant be deposited
in court not only amounts to a clear and express waiver of jurisdictional objections, but renders irrelevant all questions as to whether
there was or was not an actual lien on the warrant.
A court of equity should do justice completely and not by halves, and
should retain, the cause for all purposes even though it be thereby
called upon to determine legal rights otherwise beyond its authority.
Camp v. Boyd, 229 U. S. 530, 551.
In this case held that attorneys- originally employed, under a written
contract containing a provision against revocation, to collect a claim
against the Government and who had rendered substantial services

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

in connection therewith, but had been superseded by other attorneys
over their objection after their offer to proceed with the case, were
entitled to compensation to an amount equal to that provided by the
contract.
39 App. D. C. 184, reversed.
THE facts, which involve the respective interests of
various parties in a claim against the United States
which had been adjudicated after a long litigation in tne
courts in which appellants had at divers times represented the claimants, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Clarence R. Wilson and Mr. J. J. Darlington, with
whom Mr. Nathaniel H. Wilson was on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. Leigh Robinson, with whom Mr. Holmes Conradwas
on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an equity suit that was commenced in the
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia by Jonas H.
McGowan and Elijah V. Brookshire, as complainants,
against appellee as Executrix of Joseph W. Parish, deceased, together with the Secretary of the Treasury and
the Treasurer of the United States, as defendants, in May,
1909, shortly after the decision by this Court of the case
of Parishv. Mac Veagh, 214 U. S. 124, and at a time when,
pursuant to that decision, a mandate was about to be
issued that would have resulted in paying to appellee,
as Executrix, the sum of $181,358.95, the amount found
by the Auditor for the War Department to be due to
Joseph W. Parish in his lifetime upon his claim against the
Government, known as the "ice claim," mentioned in the
opinion Of this court in the case just referred to. The
object of the suit was to establish and enforce a lien upon
the fund for services rendered in the. prosecution of the
claim. That claim had long been before the courts and

McGOWAN v. PARISH.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Congress (Parish v. United States, 12 Ct. Claims, 609;
100 U. S. 500; 16 Ct. Claims, 642; Act Feb'y 20, 1886, 24
Stat. 653, ch. 11), when, on August 4, 1900, an agreement
in writing was made between Parish and McGowan
whereby the former employed the latter as his attorney
to prosecute and collect it, agreeing "in consideration
of the professional services rendered and to be rendered
by the party of the second part [McGowan], and others
whom he may employ in the prosecution of said claim,"
that he, Parish, would pay to McGowan a fee equal in
amount to fifteen per centum of whatever might be
awarded or collected. McGowan was thereby given control of the prosecution of the claim to its final determination, with power to receive and receipt for any draft or
other evidence of indebtedness that might be issued in
payment of it, and to retain from the proceeds the amount
of the stipulated fee; Parish was to furnish the evidence
required and to execute from time tc time and deliver
to McGowan powers of attorney or other papers necessary for the prosecution and collection of the claim and
the payment of the fee; Parish agreed that he would not
assign or otherwise dispose of the claim, and that the
agreement should not be vacated by any revocation of
the authority granted to McGowan, "nor by any services
rendered, or which may be rendered, by others, or by the
party of the first part [Parish], his heirs or legal representatives, or by any of them;" and McGowan agreed
to diligently prosecute the claim to the best of his professional ability to its final determination.
McGowan was a lawyer engaged in practice in the District of Columbia, and after the contract was made, he
rendered professional services under it, before Congress
and otherwise. In December 1902, McGowan and Parish
being desirous of securing the services of the complainant Elijah V. Brookshire as attorney in codperation with
McGowan, the latter made an agreement with Brookshire

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

giving him an undivided one-third interest in the contract
of August 4, 1900, the purpose being to give him 5% of
whatever amount should be awarded or collected upon the
claim. A short time after this, Parish and Brookshire
entered into a written agreement between themselves,
by which the former agreed that he would pay to the
latter an additional 5% of the amount awarded or appropriated, and that Brookshire should have a lien for the
amount due him upon the award when made; and Brookshire agreed to render necessary and proper legal services
in the prosecution of the claim under the direction of
Parish.
Thereafter McGowan and Brookshire co~perated, and
unquestionably rendered services of value. Through their
instrumentality, Congress was induced to pass the act
of February 17, 1903 (c. 559, 32 Stat. 1612), referring
the claim to the Secretary of the Treasury for examination and the payment of any balance found due to Parish
under the rule of damages laid down by this court in
United States v. Behan, 110 U. S. 338, after deducting
payments already made. Thereafter, the Secretary of the
Treasury referred it to the Auditor for the War Department, who on August 11, 1903, made a finding that there
was a balance of $181,358.95 due to Parish, and notified
him through McGowan. The Secretary, however, did not
accept this finding, but made further investigation, with
the result that on May 31, 1904, having concluded that
under the rule in the Behan Case, and upon the evidence,
no balance was due to Parish, he decided to refuse to pay
the amount ascertained by the Auditor, or any sum.
Shortly after this, friction and disagreements developed
between Parish and the attorneys respecting the next
steps to be taken, and they continued until Parish's death,
which occurred on December 26, 1904, at his residence
in the City of Washington. No active steps were taken,
during this -period, towards pressing the claim. Parish

McGOWAN v. PARISH.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

left a will, but no estate other than the claim. His
daughter, Emily E. Parish, proved the will and qualified
as Executrix thereunder, and in the year 1905 she employed
other counsel, through whom, in May, 1906, she filed in
the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia a petition
for a mandamus against the Secretary of the Treasury
to require him to issue a draft in her favor for the amount
of the award of the Auditor for the War Department.
That court dismissed the petition, and the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia affirmed its action. 30
App. D. C. 45. But this court, in the case first above
mentioned) reversed this judgment, and remanded the
cause with directions looking to the allowance of the mandamus.
At this point, as already mentioned, McGowan and
Brookshire filed the present bill of complaint against the
Executrix, joining the Secretary of the Treasury and the
Treasurer of the United States as parties defendant. The
bill set up the several contracts made between Parish and
McGowan, between McGowan and Brookshire, and between Parish and Brookshire, respectively; set forth the
services performed by complainants under those contracts, and the results of those services, including the
passage of the act of February 17, 1903, the finding of the
Auditor for the War Department, ascertaining a balance
of $181,358.95 due to Parish, and the adverse decision of
the Secretary of the Treasury; the subsequent death of
Parish; the probate of his will by Emily E. Parish, his
Executrix, and the proceedings taken by her in the courts.
It also alleged that during Joseph W. Parish's lifetime complainants had advanced money to him for the benefit of
himself and his family in sums aggregating $5,000, relying
solely upon his promise to repay the loans out of what
might be recovered in respect of the claim; that except for
that claim he died insolvent, and was indebted in amounts
aggregating about $25,000; that the defendant, Emily E.
VOL. CCXXXVI17-19

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

Parish, and her brother, Grant Parish, had avowed and
declared that complainants should never receive any part
of the money realized upon the claim, and that they were
both insolvent, and if they should receive into their hands
the draft about to be issued by the Secretary of the Treasury they would immediately take it out of the jurisdiction
of the court for the purpose of defrauding and defeating
complainants of their rightful lien and claim on the fund;
and that complainants were severally the equitable owners
of one-tenth part of said sum of $181,358.95, and entitled
to a lien upon the award and finding in respect of that
part. The prayers were, in substance, that each of the
complainants should be decreed to be the equitable owner
of and entitled to one-tenth part of the amount of the
award; that the Executrix, the Secretary of the Treasury,
and the Treasurer of the United States should be enjoined
from receiving or paying over the amount of the award
to the detriment of complainants' interests; that a receiver
should be appointed to collect the money from the United
States and hold it subject to the order of the court; and
for general relief. The bill was filed on May 22, 1909, and
on the same day a restraining order was made enjoining
the Executrix from receiving, and the officers of the Government from paying, the amount of the award. On
June 2, with the consent of the respective solicitors for
the complainants and the defendant, Emily E. Parish,
Executrix, an interlocutory decree was made, dissolving
the restraining order and dismissing the bill of complaint
as against the Secretary of the Treasury and the Treasurer of the United States, and also dissolving the restraint
as against the Executrix; "provided, however, and it is
adjudged that in respect of the sum of forty-one thousand
dQllars and in respect of any warrant, draft or check that
may be issued*therefor by the Treasury Department, or
any officer thereof, as being a part of the award or finding,"
etc., the Executrix was thereby directed to make a proper

McGOWAN v. PARISH.
237 U. B.

Opinion of the Court.

power of attorney authorizing the Vice President of the
American Surety and Trust Company to receive the warrant, draft or check, indorse it in her name as Executrix
of Joseph W. Parish, deceased, collect the proceeds, and
deposit them with the Trust Company "to the credit of
this cause and subject to the further order of this court
herein and subject to the determination by this court in
this cause whether any amount and, if so, what amount is
justly due the complainants, or either of them, for professional services rendered by them or either of them, for
and in respect of the matters described in the bill of complaint." This consent decree was complied with, to the
extent that the Executrix collected from the Treasury
Department for the use of the Estate the amount of the
award over and above $41,000, and the latter amount was
on June 7, 1909, placed with the Trust Company to the
credit of the cause, subject to the order of the court.
Jonas H. McGowan died on August 2, 1909, and his
Executrix was substituted as a party complainant in his
stead. An answer was filed in due course by the Executrix of Joseph W. Parish, proofs were taken, and the cause
was brought on to final hearing. The Supreme Court of
the District of Columbia made a decree awarding to each
of the complainants a sum equal to one-tenth part of the
amount of the award, with interest from June 7, 1909.
39 Wash. Law Rep. 586. The Court of Appeals reversed
this decree (39 App. D. C. 184), and the present appeal
was allowed under § 250, Jud. Code, upon the ground that
the construction of Rev. Stat., § 3477, had been drawn in
question by the defendant. 228 U. S.312.
Section 250 allows a review by this court of the final
judgments or decrees of the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia upon writ of error or appeal in six classes
of cases. The first is: "Cases in which the jurisdiction of
the trial court is in issue; but when any such case is not
otherwise reviewable in said Supreme Court, then the

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

question of jurisdiction alone shall be certified to said
Supreme Court for decision." In the remaining five classes
of cases the section imposes no similar restriction upon
the scope of the review. In this respect the section is
analogous to § 238, which regulates direct appeals and
writs of error from the district courts of the United
States. Under that section it is held that, in cases other
than those that raise alone the question of the jurisdiction
of the district court, the appellate review by this court is
general. Siler v. Louis. & Nash. R. R., 213 U. S.175, 191;
Mich. Cent. R. R. v. Vreeland, 227 U. S. 59, 63; Singer
Sewing Machine Co. v. Brickell, 233 U. S.304, 312, 316.
The same rule obtains in cases coming here from a district
court under § 266, Jud. Code, where the jurisdiction of
that court is invoked upon constitutional grounds and a
direct appeal is allowed. Ohio Tax Cases, 232 U. S.576,
586; Louis. & Nash. R. R. Co. v. Finn, 235 U. S.601, 604.
A similar rule must be applied to appeals and writs of
error taken under § 250, and in the present case our jurisdiction, properly invoked upon a substantial ground specified in the section, other than a question of jurisdiction
covered by its first clause, extends to the determination
of all questions presented by the record, irrespective of
the disposition that may be made of the question respecting Rev. Stat., § 3477, or whether it is found necessary to
decide that question at all.
The grounds upon which the Court of Appeals denied
relief to Complainants are, briefly: That contracts like
those set out in the bill, so far at least as they attempt to
assign or create a lien upon a claim against the United
States, are prohibited by § 3477, and thereby made absolutely void; that although this court, in Nutt v. Knut,
200 U. S. 12, 21, permitted a similar contract to be employed as evidence of an agreed basis of compensation for
an attorney's services in prosecuting a claim, yet that
decision was rendered in a case coming from a state court,

McGOWAN v. PARISH.
237 U. S.

293

Opinion of the Court.

where the complaint did not assert nor did the judgment
establish any lien upon the fund claimed from the Government, and under the procedure in the state court the
question of jurisdiction in equity to entertain the action
did not arise, and perhaps could not have arisen; that the
present case differed, because complainants sued upon the
contracts as a whole, claiming the fees as fixed thereby,
and also claiming a lien, and that "had there been an
amendment abandoning the lien and relying on the quantum meruit solely, the equity court would have been without jurisdiction;" that aside from the contracts there was
no attorney's lien upon which to found jurisdiction in
equity, because complainants did not themselves reduce
the fund to possession, the Executrix having employed
other counsel to do this, as she had a right to do, although
not thereby entitled to defeat complainants' right to compensation for the reasonable value of their services previously performed; that the allegation of the insolvency
of the Executrix, and her intention to remove the fund
from the jurisdiction, furnished no foundation for a resort
to equity, because relief could have been given by the
Supreme Court of the District as a probate court, which
had authority to require the Executrix to give sufficient
bond for the protection of creditors, or else to revoke her
letters and thus prevent the collection of the judgment;
that the interlocutory decree entered by consent of the
parties did not help the position of complainants nor estop
defendant from attacking the contracts as illegal and void
or alleging the failure of complainants to prosecute the
claim to final determination; that the decree and defendant's answer furnished a ground upon which complainants
might have amended their bill so as to convert the suit
into a claim for compensation upon a quantum meruit,
but that no such amendment was made, the cause being
heard upon the theory that the allegations of the original
bill were sufficient for the purpose, and there being no

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

evidence of the reasonable value of the services of the
attorneys aside from the express stipulations of the contracts, as to which it was held that they did not furnish a
measure of the reasonable value of services which were
not completely performed as the contracts contemplated;
and thereupon, examining the evidence with a view to
determining whether the attorneys had performed the contracts so far as permitted by the claimant and his Executrix, the court reached the conclusion that they had in
effect abandoned the contracts during the lifetime of
Joseph W. Parish, and had made no tender of further
services to the Executrix after his death, and hence, upon
the whole case, were entitled to no compensation.
As to the effect of § 3477, Rev. Stat.,' it has been several
times declared by this court that the statute was intended
solely for the protection of the Government and its officers
during the adjustment of claims, and that, after allowance,
the protection may be invoked or waived, as they in their
judgment deem proper. Goodman v. Niblack, 102 U. S.
.556, 560; Bailey v. United States, 109 U. S. 432, 439;
Hobbs v. McLean, 117 U. S. 567, 576; Freedman's Saving
'SEc. 3477. All transfers and assignments made of any claim upon
the United States, or of any part or share thereof, or interest therein,
whether absolute or conditional, 'and whatever may be the consideration therefor, and all powers of attorney, orders, or other authorities
for receiving payment of any such claim, or of any part or share thereof,
shall be absolutely null and void, unless they are freely made and
executed in the presence of at least two attesting witnesses, after the
allowance of such a claim, the ascertainment of the amount due, and
the issuing of a warrant for the payment thereof. Such transfers,
assignments, and powers of attorney, must recite the warrant for payment, and must' be acknowledged by the person making them, before
an officer having authority to take acknowledgments of deeds, and shall
be certified by the officer; and it must appear by the certificate that the
officer, at the time of the acknowledgment, read and fully explained
the transfer, assignment, or warrant of attorney to the person acknowledging the same.

McGOWAN v. PARISH.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Co. v. Shepherd, 127 U. S. 494, 506; Price v. Forrest, 173
U. S. 410, 423. But see Nutt v. Knut, 200 U. S. 12, 20.
In this case, the officers of the Government, after the
suit was commenced (the claim having already been
allowed and finally adjudicated), found that they needed
no protection from the statute and were safe in paying into
court to the credit of the cause a sufficient amount to
answer the claims of complainants. The amount being
paid, the court took control of it, and, with the consent of
the other parties, dismissed the Secretary of the Treasury
and the Treasurer of the United States from the cause.
Under these circumstances and in view of the consent
decree, we are not called upon to consider whether the
present case is within the reasoning of either of the cases
cited, if we decide--as we do-that in view of the contracts, and of the special facts set up in the. bill of complaint as above recited, reasonable and sufficient grounds
existed for invoking the equity jurisdiction, that the subjectmatter was within the cognizance of a court of equity, and
that it was by no means clear that an adequate remedy
existed at law. The equity jurisdiction having thus been
properly invoked, the right of defendant to object because of the alleged existence of a legal remedy could be
waived. Reynes v. Dumont, 130 U. S. 354, 395;,Kilb Yurn
v. Sunderland, 130 U. S. 505, 514; Brown v. Lake Superior
Iron Co., 134 U. S. 530, *536; Re Metropolitan Railway
Receivership, 208 U. S. 90, 110. It is suggested in the
opinion of the Court of Appeals that the trial court in its
discretion might, of its own motion, have dismissed the
bill for want of jurisdiction. This was not done, and hence
we are not called upon to pass upon the question; but we
must not be understood as assenting to the suggestion.
The consent decree not only amounted to a. clear and
express waiver of jurisdictional objections, but it rendered
irrelevant, so far as the present parties are concerned, all
questions as to the effect of the contracts in creating a

OCTOBER TERM, .1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

lien upon the proceeds of the ice claim, the effect of §3477,
Rev. Stat., as an obstacle to such lien, the right to a lien
independent of the contracts, the right to an injunction
or receivership, and other questions, if any, that simply
relate to the ground or occasion for coming into equity.
These were waived when the court, with the consent of the
parties, took physical control of the $41,000 for the purpose, very clearly expressed in. the interlocutory decree,
of holding it for the benefit of the respective parties,
"subject to the further order of this court herein, and
subject to the determination by this court in this cause
whether any amount and, if so, what amount is justly
due the complainants, or either of them, for professional
services rendered by them, or either of them, for and in
respect of the matters described in the bill of complaint."
This language excluded the idea that the determination
of any other question-whether contract lien, attorney's
lien, or what not-might control the ultimate disposition
of the fund. The simple issue that remained was, of course,
of such a nature that it would have been the proper subject of an action at lbw, had it not originally been bound up
with questions appropriate for decision by an equitable
tribunal. But "a court of equity ought to do justice
completely, and not by halves;" and a cause once properly
in a court of equity for any purpose will ordinarily be
retained for all purposes, even though the court is thereby
called upon to determine legal rights that otherwise would
not be within the range of its authority. Camp v. Boyd,
229 U. S. 530, 551-552, and cases cited. After the making
of the consent decree and the deposit of the money in
court, the situation of this case was substantially that of an
interpleader suit after the making of a decree for interpleader and the dismissal of the stakeholder from the
cause, with the issue as between the conflicting claimants
limited by stipulation to the determination of the amount
"justly due" from the one to the other. That question,

McGOWAN v. PARISH.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of course, was and is to be decided according to the
equities of the claimants as between themselves, without
regard to legal technicalities. Whitney v. Cowan, 55
Mississippi, 626, 645, 647.
We also think the ascertainment whether anything,
and if so how much, was due to complainants was well
within the prayer for general relief, and cannot agree with
the Court of Appeals that there was any necessity for
amending the bill. Nor could the Executrix, by her answer, raise any issue other than the simple one previously
reserved by the consent decree.
The determination of that issue depends chiefly upon
the disputed question of fact, whether the attorneys fairly
and fully performed their agreements so far as permitted
to do so by Joseph W. Parish in his life-time and his
Executrix after his death, as the Supreme Court of .the
District found that they had done; or whether they in
effect abandoned performance and refused to complete
their duties under the contracts, as the Court of Appeals
found that they had done. This in turn depends, for the
most part, upon what took place between McGowan and
Brookshire and Parish during the summer and autumn
of the year 1904; and since two of these were dead at the
time of the hearing, and the third (Brookshire) debarred
from testifying as to transactions with or declarations
by defendant's testator (Dist. Col. Code, § 1064), the
evidence bearing upon the question is fragmentary and
largely circumstantial. The Court of Appeals laid great
stress upon the fact that, so far as appeared, McGowan
made no written reply to a certain letter sent to him by
Parish in the month of September, while McGowan was
on vacation -in Canada. It contained the statement:
"You will remember before you left Washington for your
summer respite, you said substantially that you had done
your best to get the Auditor's report in my case paid by
the Secretary of the Treasury, and failed, etc., 'that you

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the CQurt.

237 U. S.

turned over to me the case to be managed in the future
and do whatever I deemed best, etc.' Sometime next
Congress I propose to organize a practical method and
resurrect the claim from its unfortunate condition, and
1 must have unrestricted and unrestrained control"with other matter intimating but not expressing a desire
that McGowan should expressly abandon the case. The
letter was rambling, and its purpose not plain. There was
nothing in it to require an immediate reply, or to necessitate a reply in writing. McGowan returned to Washington within two weeks after its receipt, and soon afterwards made repeated efforts to obtain a personal interview with Mr. Parish, but without success. It would
serve no useful purpose to rehearse the evidence that was
introduced to throw light upon the situation and to show
the conduct of the parties during this period. We content ourselves with saying that we are unable to concur
in the view of the Court of Appeals, and, on the contrary,
think that the weight of the evidence shows that up to the
time of Mr. Parish's death the attorneys were ready and
willing to proceed, 'but that because of his attitude, as
well as by reason of doubts naturally arising from the
adverse decision of the Secretary of the Treasury, they
were embarrassed about deciding upon the proper course
to be followed, among several that suggested themselves:
mandamus to the Secretary of the Treasury, a re-hearing
before him, a reference to the Court of Claims, or a further
application to Congress, Their letter of November 19th,
stating: "We have done what we could to secure an interview with you concerning the ice claim. You have deliberately avoided us. The time has come when the matter
should have attention. If we do not see you on or before
Wednesday next we shall proceed as we deem best under
the ample authority which we have," was, in view of all
the circumstances, a reasonable though emphatic notice
to Parish that, under the right conferred upon them by the

McGOWAN v. PARISH.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

contracts and under the power of attorney that they had,
they would exercise their own judgment and discretion
as to the proper mode of proceeding, unless they could have
an interview with him. And Parish's reply, under date
November 22, in which, while not disputing their statement that they had sought and he had avoided an interview, he notified them that he would not submit to their
proposed action, amounted in effect to a confirmation
of what they already had reasonable ground to believe,
that he intended to dispense entirely with their services.
That they did not proceed without him, as they threatened
to do, is easily explainable on the theory that his personal
codperation was practically, although not legally, indispensable.
The evidence further shows that the Executrix had been
fully cognizant, during her father's lifetime, of the general
situation respecting the ice claim and knew that McGowan
and Brookshire were the attorneys in charge of it; she
knew Mr. McGowan had advanced considerable sums to
her father for his support and hers, and that these advances
remained unpaid at his death; the letter of November 19th
and a copy of the reply were among her father's papers
and came to her knowledge not long after his death; and
the circumstances show that she was not willing that
McGowan or Brookshire should have anything further
to do with the claim, and that they were made aware of
this. We think they were not called upon to make an
express offer of their services to the Executrix.
Complainants are therefore entitled to compensation;
and since the attorneys' services were admittedly of great
value, and resulted in securing to Mr. Parish, as this court
in effect held in 214 U. S. 124, a complete right to the payment of the money, and since it was his fault and not
theirs that the final steps to recover it were, not taken by
them, no reason is shown why complainants shouldnot
receive the entire amount stipulated for in the contracts.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

237 U. S.

Those instruments may be resorted to as a basis for calculating the compensation of the attorneys, irrespective

of any question about their effect as assignments because
of § 3477, Rev. Stat. Nutt v. Knut 200 U. S. 12, 21.
And the first and foundation agreement in terms provides

that it shall not be affected by any revocation of the authority granted to Mr. McGowan, nor by any services

rendered by others, or by Parish himself.
The decree of the Court of Appeals is reversed, and the
cause remanded, with directions to affirm the decree of
the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia and direct
the latter court to take further proceedings thereon, if
necessary, in accordance with the views above expressed.

Reversed.

LOUISVILLE AND NASHVILLE RAILROAD COMPANY v. WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 183.

Argued March 9, 1915.-Decided April 12, 1915.

Where the jurisdiction of the District Court to which the case is removed from the state court depends entirely upon diverse citizenship, the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is final under
§ 128, Jud. Code.
Where the foundation of the right claimpd is a state law, the suit to
assert it arises under that law, none the less because it has attached
a condition that only Federal legislature can fulfil; such a case is
not one arising under the law of the United States, under § 24, Jud.
Code.
Where a proceeding brought by a telegraph company, permitted to
operate within the State, against a railroad company, to acquire
rights by judgment expropriation which is based on the state statute,
is removed to the District Court on account of diverse citizenship,

