PARKER v. McLAIN.
237 U. S.

Counsel for Parties.

PARKER v. McLAIN, EXECUTRIX OF McLAIN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.

No. 220.

Submitted April 14, 1015.--Decided May 10, 1915.

In order to give this court jurisdiction to review the judgment of a
state court under § 237, Judicial Code, the assertion of a Federal
right must not be frivolous or wholly without foundation; otherwise
an utterly baseless Federal right might be made the basis for invoking
the jurisdiction of this court merely for purposes of delay.
Whether a consent by a defendant to a revivor amounts to an estoppel
against challenging the capacity of the substituted plaintiff to continue the action is purely a question of local law or practice and the
decision of the state court is controlling.
Nothing in the full faith and credit clause of the Federal Constitution
or in the statute enacted thereunder requires the authenticated
proof of a decree to include all the pleadings and proceedings.
Where the original decree entered in one State and sued on in another
does not purport to lay a reciprocal duty on the judgment creditor,
but simply recites that on performance the judgment debtor becomes entitled to papers in the registry of the court, full faith and
credit is not denied because the judgment entered on the decree in
the latter State does not impose an actual reciprocal duty on the
judgment creditor.
In this case the Federal questions raised being so plainly devoid of
merit as to be frivolous the writ of error is dismissed.
Writ of error to review 88 Kansas, 717 and 873, dismissed.

THE facts, which involve the application of the full faith
and credit clause of the Federal Constitution and the
jurisdiction of this court under § 237, Judicial Code, are
stated in the opinion.

Mr. Edward P. Garnett and Mr. Isaac 0. Pickering for
plaintiff in error.

Mr. W. R. Thurmond for defendant in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

237 U. S.

delivered the opinion of

the court.
In a suit in the Circuit Court of Jackson County, Missouri, wherein the court had jurisdiction of the parties
and the subject-matter, Carey McLain secured a decree
against M. V. B. Parker for a considerable sum of money.
The suit was brought and the decree rendered upon the
theory that Parker had fraudulently induced McLain to
join him in the purchase of certain property; that by
falsely overstating the value of the property, the price at
which it was being purchased and the amount he was contributing to the price, Parker had secured from McLain
several sums as the latter's share of the purchase money
when in truth. these sums greatly exceeded his share, and
that in consequence McLain was entitled to surrender
his interest in the property to Parker and call upon him
to refund what was paid to him. Before beginning the
suit McLain executed and tendered to Parker appropriate
deeds for the property, and when the suit was begun the
deeds were brought into court and lodged with the clerk
to be disposed of by the decree when rendered. Following
a recital of these matters and a finding that McLain had
been damaged to the extent of his payments to Parker,
the decree ordered that the forme' have and recover
from the latter the amounts paid-each being definitely
-stated-with interest at six per cent. per annum from
the date of the decree, and directed that upon the satisfaction of the decree the deeds lodged with the clerk be
delivered by him to Parker. The latter carried the case
to the Supreme Court of Missouri, which affirmed the
decree and in doing so pointed out the nature of the suit
in these words, 229 Missouri, 68, 87, 93: "Plaintiff whilst
charging fraud and deceit in the petition, and having the
right to sue for damages without rescinding the contract,
has taken the precaution in this, as in other counts, to

PARKER v. McLAIN.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

make 9 tender of such instruments as would place the
defendant in statu quo. . . . The gist of these several
counts is fraud and deceit, and money paid out to defendant in consequence thereof, and the prayer of the petition is to recover the money so obtained, with interest
thereon. The judgment responds to the petition, its
prayer and the proof."
After securing that decree McLain brought an action
thereon in the District Court of Johnson County, Kansas,
and during the pendency of the action died leaving a will.
The will was duly probated in Kansas, the State of his
residence, and letters testamentary were issued in that
State whereby his widow became his executrix. An ancillary administrator was also appointed by the Probate
Court of Jackson County, Missouri. Thereafter the
action in Kansas was revived in the name of the executrix, with the defendant's express consent, and in regular
course a trial was had at which all questions of fact and
law were resolved in the plaintiff's favor, save that it was
held that the real party in interest was not the executrix
but the Missouri administrator and that the action ought
not to have been revived in the name of the executrix.
Judgment was rendered for the defendant and upon appeal to the Supreme Court of Kansas was reversed with a
direction to enter judgment for the plaintiff. 88 Kansas,
717, 873. The present writ of error was then sued out by
the defendant.
Our jurisdiction to review the judgment of the highest
court of a State turns upon whether a Federal right was
specially set up or claimed in that court and denied by its
decision. Judicial Code, § 237. And to be effective for
this purpose the assertion of a Federal right must not be
frivolous or wholly without foundation. It must at least
have fair color of support, for otherwise an utterly baseless Federal right might be set up or claimed in almost
any case, and the jurisdiction of this court invoked merely

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

for purposes of delay. Hamblin v. Western Land Co., 147
U. S. 531; Wilson v. North Carolina, 169 U. S. 586, 595;
New Orleans Water Works Vo. v. Louisiana, 185 U. S. 336,
344; Sawyer v. Piper,189 U. S. 154, 156.
The contentions advanced by the defendant in the
Supreme Court of Kansas upon which the jurisdiction of
this court is sought to be rested are (a) that under the
law of Missouri where the decree sued on was rendered
the administrator appointed in that State was the real
party in interest and therefore the executrix was without
legal capacity to maintain the action; (b) that the decree
was not proved conformably to the law of Congress (Rev.
Stat., § 905), because, as was objected when the proof was
offered, the authenticated record produced in evidence
did not contain all the pleadings and proceedings in the
suit but only the decree with its recitals and findings;
and (c) that by the terms of the decree the payment of the
money by the defendant and the execution and delivery
of the deeds by McLain were intended to be reciprocal,
interdependent and concurrent acts-and that to make the
decree the basis: of a judgment in Kansas against the
defendant for the payment of the money without requiring performance of the reciprocal obligation imposed
upon McLain would contravene the full faith and credit
clause of the Federal Constitution (Art. IV, § 1) and the
law enacted thereunder by Congress (Rev. Stat., § 905),
and would deprive the defendant of the due process of
law and the equal protection of the laws secured by the
Fourteenth Amendment.
The first contention was overruled because, as was said
in the opinion, "the defendant explicitly consented to the
revivor in the name of the executrix and in view of that
fact cannot be heard to question her capacity to maintain the action." Whether by consenting to the revivor
and thus recognizing the executrix as the real party in
interest (see Gen. Stat. Kan. 1909, § 6023) the defendant

PARKER v. McLAIN.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

was estopped from subsequently challenging her capacity
to maintain the action was purely a question of local law
or practice, and its decision by the Supreme Court of the
State is controlling.
The next contention was wholly witnout any support
and was so held by the Supreime Court of the State.
There is nothing in the full faith and credit clause of the
Constitution or in the statute enacted thereunder which
requires that the authenticated proof of a decree shall
include all the pleadings and proceedings in the suit, or
which attempts to specify what parts of the proceedings
in'a state court shall be included in making up the record
in an adjudicated cause. While there may be instances
in which a decree or judgment could not well be understood, or would not clearly show what was determined,
unless read in connection with the pleadings or other proceedings, this was not such an instance. The recitals and
findings were so full and explicit and the terms of the
decree so direct that nothing more was required to disclose its full purpose or what was determined by it.
The remaining contention was equally without color,
because it rested upon an obviously false assumption.
The decree did not purport to lay any reciprocal duty or
obligation upon McLain but, on the contrary, proceeded
upon the theory that he had done all that could be required of him. This was recognized by the Supreme Court
of Kansas, which said in its opinion (pp. 720, 721): "He
was given an absolute and unconditional judgment for
the recovery of a specific sum of money. . . . Its
enforcement was not made to depend upon any act to be
subsequently performed. When it was paid or satisfied
the defendant was entitled to receive the deeds from the
clerk." And again, p. 874, "If collection is made here it
must be presumed that the defendant, upon showing that
fact to the Missouri court, can obtain his deeds, just as
he might do if the judgment had been satisfied in any

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Counsel for Parties.

237 U. S.

other manner, and just as he might procure a discharge
of any judgment against him, the amount of which had
been collected by suit thereon in another State."
What has been said sufficiently discloses that the Federal questions raised in the case were so plainly devoid of
merit as to afford no basis for a review in this court.
Writ of error dismissed.

STATE OF GEORGIA v. TENNESSEE COPPER
COMPANY AND DUCKTOWN SULPHUR, COPPER & IRON COMPANY, LIMITED.
MOTION TO ENTER A FINAL DECREE AGAINST THE DUCKTOWN SULPHUR, COPPER & IRON COMPANY, -LIMITED.
No. 1, Original.

Argued April 6, 7, 1915.-Decided May 10, 1915.

The defendant Ducktown Sulphur Copper & Iron Company and the
State of Georgia not having agreed as to the method of operation of the
furnaces of the former and additional testimony having been taken
relating toalleged changed conditions since 1907 and it appearing that
the furnaces ar6 emitting fumes in excess of what is proper held that:
A final decree against the Ducktown Company be now entered
restraining it from operating its plant except upon the terms
specified therein; the cause to be retained for further action and
either side may present a decree in conformity with this decision.
Final decree ordered in 206 U. S. 230, against defendant Ducktown
Company.
THE facts, which involve questions of nuisance arising
from fumes from smelting ore and the power of the court
to enjoin the same at the instance of a State, are stated
in the opinion.

Mr. Warren Grice and Mr. J. A. Drake, with whom
Mr. Lamar Hill was on the brief, for complainant.

