OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

237 U. S.

if we disregarded the pleadings and tested the jurisdiction
by the statements in the opinion of the court below as to
the arguments urged upon it, the situation as to the absence of a Federal question adequate to confer jurisdiction
would be manifested. We say this because the opinion
also states that it was established by the proof and not
controverted in the argument below that the tracks of the
railroad were not on Sixth street as alleged in the bill, but

were on a right of way not part of a street, a situation
which at once gives rise to the inquiry whether the operation of the road complained of could under this 'condition
be treated as state action within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Dismissedfor want of jurisdiction.

TOOP v. ULYSSES LAND COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.
No. 284.

Submitted May 13, 1914.-Decided June 1, 1915.

This court cannot entertain jurisdiction of a direct writ of error to
review a judgment of the District Court under ยง 238, Judicial Code,
on frivolous grounds.
The contention that rights were denied under a treaty that did not go
into effect until two years after title had vested in defendants in error
or in their grantors under the state law, is too frivolous to sustain
jurisdiction of this court under ยง 238, Judicial Code.
Even though the widow had some use of the intestate's property after
his death which continued until after the treaty became operative,
if the title was net suspended, the treaty could have had no effect
thereon.
The contention that a state statute forbidding the ownership of real
estate by non-resident aliens is repugnant to the Fourteenth Amendment simply because it does forbid such ownership is also frivolous.

TOOP v. ULYSSES LAND CO.

237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court
of direct appeals from the judgment of the District Court,
are stated in the opinion.

.Mr. Clair E. More, Mr. J. J. Boucher, Mr. Almon W.
Bulkley and Mr. Thomas D. Crane for plaintiffs in error.
No appearance for defendants in error.
Mr. R. C. Roper and Mr. C. M. Skiles filed a brief as
amici curie,
Memorandum opinion by MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE,
by direction of the court.
The plaintiffs in error, who were plaintiffs below,"alleging
themselves to be residents of England and subjects of the
Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, in 1912 sued the
defendants in error to recover a two-thirds interest in a
piece of real estate situated in Nebraska. They alleged.
that John Toop, a resident of Nebraska, who had owned
the real estate in question, died in 1898 intestate and
without issue, his widow surviving him, and that as children and grand-children of a deceased brother and sister
of Toop they as his heirs became the owners of the twothirds of the property sued for. It was charged that the
right to inherit the property notwithstanding the alleged
alienage was secured by a treaty between the United States
and Great Britain which took effect in 1900. In their
answer the defendants deraigned their title from, the children and grand-children of a deceased sister of Toop who,
it was alleged, were American citizens at the time of Toop's
death. Without denying the kinship of the plaintiffs to
Toop as they alleged, it was asserted that as aliens they
were incapacitated from taking by inheritance or holding
real estate in the State of Nebraska in virtue of a law of

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

that State which was in force at the time of Toop's death.
The case was submitted to the court on an agreed statement of facts and was decided against the plaintiffs on the
ground that applying the state law prohibiting nonresident aliens "from acquiring title to or taking or holding
any lands or real estate in this State by descent, devise,
purchase, or otherwise," etc. (act of March 16, 1889,
ยง 4825, Comp. Stat. of 1907), the plaintiffs had no interest
in the property for'which they sued. The court concluded
that the treaty referred to ia the pleadings was not necessar7 to be considered as it only became operative two
years after the death of Toop and had no retroactive
effect.
On the face of the pleadings the only ground upon which
there is any semblance of jurisdiction to entertain this
direct writ of error is the averment of the treaty between
the United States and Great Britain. But the absolutely
frivolous character of that ground is apparent when it is
considered that the treaty only went into effect two years
after the death of Toop and the vesting of the property in
those entitled legally to take it. It is true that it is now
argued-a contention which seems not to have been
pressed below-that the treaty is involved because Toop's
widow *vho survived him and died in 1907 after the treaty
was adopted had a use of the property during her life and
therefore title to it did not pass to the heirs until her death.
This, however, does-not add substance to the proposition,
but 6nly asserts another unsubstantial contention, for it
is apparent that the fee of the property was not in suspension until the death of the wife, but passed to the heirs
entitled to take, subject, it is true, to the use of the widow,
but nevertheless so far as the passage of the title was concerned uncontrolled and uninfluenced by the treaty.
As except for a contention that the state statute forbidding the ownership of real property by aliens was repugnant to the Fourteenth Amendment, which seems also

BROWN v. FLETCHER.
237 U. S.

Syllabus.

not to have been raised below and which we think also is
too frivolous to afford a basis for jurisdiction, what we
have said disposes of all the considerations relied upon as
the basis for the right to prosecute this direct writ of error,
it follows that we are without jurisdiction and the writ
is therefore
Dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

BROWN AND SCHERMERHORN, TRUSTEES, v.
FLETCHER, AS TRUSTEE OF BRAKER.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 286.

Argued May 13, 14, 191S.-Decided June 1, 1915.

Brown v. Fletcher,235 U. S. 589, followed to the effect that ยง 24, Judicial
Code, does not apply to the assignment of an interest of the cestui
que trust of a testamentary trust fund.
Even though jurisdiction to do so exists, this court will not dispose of
a case on the merits where such action would be out of harmony
with the provisions of the Judicial Code giving a direct right of re-

view on questions of jurisdiction, or where it would be incompatible
with the provisions of that Code giving finality to judgments of the
Circuit Court of Appeals.
The refusal of the Circuit Court of Appeals to decide a case on its merits
because it erroneously held that the diversity of citizenship necessary to give jurisdiction to the Federal courts did not exist, should
not, under the circumstances of this case, be made the basis of this
court for deciding a case which, if jurisdiction does exist, should be
finally decided by the Circuit Court of Appeals.
The District Court having taken jurisdiction of a case on the ground
that diversity of citizenship existed, and decided the case on the
merits, and the Circuit Court of Appeals having held that jurisdiction
did not exist and reversed, with instructions to dismiss the bill, but
not on the merits, this court, having found that diversity of citizen-

