OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Opinion in Chambers

O'BRIEN

ET AL. V. SKINNER,

SHERIFF,

409 U. S.

ET AL.

ON APPLICATION FOR STAY

No. A-484. Decided November 6, 1972
Applicants, who are imprisoned after misdemeanor convictions or
while awaiting trial (groups not disfranchised under New York
law), challenge the constitutionality of an absentee voting statute
applicable to those whose confinement in state institutions is
because of physical disability, but not to persons in applicants'
situation. The claim of applicants, which the New York Court of
Appeals rejected, may have merit and McDonald v. Board of
Election Comm'rs, 394 U. S. 802, on which the State relies, is
distinguishable. However, applicants' delays in submitting their
registration statements to election officials and in filing their application for stay, together with the absence of information as to
whether a state court stay was sought, compel denial of the
application.

MR. JUSTICE MARSHALL, Circuit Justice.

Applicants, 72 prisoners in County Jail in Monroe
County, New York, applied to me in my capacity as a
Circuit Justice for a stay of a New York Court of Appeals judgment entered November 3, 1972.
The applicants are either convicted misdemeanants or
persons who have been convicted of no crime but are
awaiting trial. New York law makes no provision for
the disfranchisement of these groups. Nonetheless, applicants allege that they have been prevented from registering to vote because correctional and election officials
have refused to provide them with absentee ballots, refused to establish mobile voting and registration equipment at the prison, and refused to transport them to the
polls. Applicants argue that these restrictions on their
right of franchise are not supported by the sort of "compelling state interest" that this Court has in the past

O'BRIEN v. SKINNER
1240

Opinion in Chambers

required. See, e. g., Dunn v. Blumnstein, 405 U. S. 330
(1972).
They challenge the constitutionality of the
New York statute that permits absentee voting by
persons confined to state institutions by reason of physical disability but makes no provision for absentee voting
by persons confined to state prisons after misdemeanor
convictions or while awaiting trial.
In response, respondents rely on this Court's decision
in McDonald v. Board of Election Comm'rs, 394 U. S.
802 (1969). In McDonald we held that, under the circumstances of that case, the mere allegation that Illinois had denied absentee ballots to unsentenced inmates
awaiting trial in the Cook County jail did not make out
a constitutional claim. I am not persuaded, however,
that McDonald governs this case. Cf. Goosby v. Osser,
452 F. 2d 39 (CA3 1971), cert. granted, 408 U. S. 922
(1972). In McDonald there was "nothing in the record
to indicate that the Illinois statutory scheme [had] an
impact on appellants' ability to exercise the fundamental
right to vote." 394 U. S., at 807. We pointed out that
the record was "barren of any indication that the State
might not, for instance, possibly furnish the jails with
special polling booths or facilities on election day, or
provide guarded transportation to the polls themselves
for certain inmates, or entertain motions for temporary
reductions in bail to allow some inmates to get to the
polls on their own." Id., at 808 n. 6. Here, in contrast,
it seems clear that the State has rejected alternative
means by which applicants might exercise their right to
vote. Deprivation of absentee ballots is therefore tantamount to deprivation of the franchise itself, and it is
axiomatic that courts must "strictly scrutinize" the discriminatory withdrawal of voting rights. See, e. g.,
Harper v. Virginia Board of Elections, 383 U. S. 663,
670 (1966).

1242

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Opinion in Chambers

409 U. S.

Compelling practical considerations nonetheless lead
me to the conclusion that this application must be
denied. Applicants waited until the last day of registration before submitting their registration statements
to election officials, and they filed this application a scant
four days before the election.
Moreover, neither party submitted to me the Court
of Appeals opinion denying relief until 4 o'clock this
afternoon, and I still do not have before me any written
indication as to whether applicants have applied to the
state court for a stay or as to the state court's disposition
of any such application.
Even if it were possible to arrange for absentee ballots
at this late date, election officials can hardly be expected
to process the registration statements in the remaining
time before the election. It is entirely possible that
some of the applicants are disqualified from voting for
other reasons or that, while qualified to vote somewhere
in the State, they are not qualified to cast ballots in
Monroe County. The States are, of course, entitled to
a reasonable period within which to investigate the
qualifications of voters. See Dunn v. Blumstein, supra,
at 348.
Voting rights are fundamental, and alleged disfranchisement of even a small group of potential voters is
not to be taken lightly. But the very importance of the
rights at stake militates against hasty or ill-considered
action. This Court cannot operate in the dark, and it
cannot require state officials to do the impossible. With
the case in this posture, I conclude that effective relief
cannot be provided at this late date. I must therefore
deny the application.

