OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Opinion in Chambers

409 U. S.

DRUMMOND ET AL. V. ACREE ET AL.
ON REAPPLICATION FOR STAY

No. A-250 (72-167).

Decided September 1, 1972

Where the lower courts held that an order for the transportation
of students was entered to accomplish desegregation of the elementary school system of Augusta, Georgia, an application for
stay premised solely on that portion of § 803 of the Education
Amendments of 1972 prohibiting effectuation of an order for
student busing to achieve a racial balance among students until
all appeals have been exhausted is denied.
See: 458 F. 2d 486.

Circuit Justice.
This application, filed by parent-intervenors in this
school desegregation case from Richmond County (Augusta), Georgia, seeks a stay of a judgment of the Court
of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. That court, on March
31, 1972, affirmed an order of the United States District
Court for the Southern District of Georgia adopting a
plan for the desegregation of 29 elementary schools in
Augusta. Acree v. County Board of Education of Richmond County, 458 F. 2d 486 (1972). After the Fifth
Circuit's affirmance, I denied a stay because that relief
had not been requested from the appropriate Court of
Appeals as ordinarily required by Rule 27 of the Supreme
Court Rules. Applicants immediately sought a stay from
the Fifth Circuit, which was denied.' Applicants have
now reapplied to me.
This reapplication is premised solely on the contention
that a stay is required under § 803 of the Education
Amendments of 1972. That section reads in pertinent
part as follows:
"[I]n the case of any order on the part of any United
States district court which requires the transfer or
MR. JUSTICE POWELL,

A stay was also denied by the United States District Court for
the Southern District of Georgia on August 18, 1972.

DRUMMOND v. ACREE
1228

1229

Opinion in Chambers

transportation of any student . .. for the purposes
of achieving a balance among students with respect
to race . . . , the effectiveness of such order shall
be postponed until all appeals . . . have been exhausted . .

.

."

Education Amendments of 1972,

Pub. L. 92-318, Tit. VIII, § 803, 86 Stat. 372, 20
U. S. C. § 1653 (1970 ed., Supp. II) (emphasis
added).
By those terms, the statute requires that the effectiveness
of a district court order be postponed pending appeal
only if the order requires the "transfer or transportation" of students "for the purposes of achieving a balance
among students with respect to race." It does not
purport to block all desegregation orders which require
the transportation of students. If Congress had desired
to stay all such orders it could have used clear and explicit language appropriate to that result.
In § 802, which precedes § 803, Congress prohibited
the use of federal funds to aid in any program for the
transportation of students if the design of the program
is to "overcome racial imbalance" or to "carry out a plan
of racial desegregation." Education Amendments of
1972, § 802 (a), 20 U. S. C. § 1652 (a) (1970 ed., Supp.
II) (emphasis added). It is clear from the juxtaposition
and the language of these two sections that Congress
intended to proscribe the use of federal funds for the
transportation of students under any desegregation plan
but limited the stay provisions of § 803 to desegregation
plans that seek to achieve racial balance.
In light of this Court's holding in Swann v. CharlotteMecklenburg Board of Education, 402 U. S. 1 (1971), it
could hardly be contended that Congress was unaware
of the legal significance of its "racial balance" language.
In that case the school authorities argued that § 407 (a)
of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U. S. C. § 2000c-6 (a),
restricted the power of federal courts in prescribing a

1230

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Opinion in Chambers

409 U. S.

method for correcting state-imposed segregation.
CHIEF JUSTICE'S

THE

interpretation of § 407 (a), which ap-

plies only to orders "seeking to achieve a racial balance,"
is controlling here:
"The proviso in [§ 407 (a)] is in terms designed to
foreclose any interpretation of the Act as expanding
the existing powers of federal courts to enforce the
Equal Protection Clause. There is no suggestion of
an intention to restrict those powers or withdraw
from courts their historic equitable remedial powers.
The legislative history of Title IV indicates that
Congress was concerned that the Act might be
read as creating a right of action under the Fourteenth Amendment in the situation of so-called 'de
facto segregation,' where racial imbalance exists in the
schools but with no showing that this was brought
about by discriminatory action of state authorities."
402 U. S., at 17-18 (emphasis in original).
In short, as employed in § 407 (a), the phrase "achieve
a racial balance" was used in the context of eliminating
"de facto segregation." The Court went on to caution
lower federal courts that, in the exercise of their broad
remedial powers, their focus must be on dismantling dual
school systems rather than on achieving perfect racial
balance: "The constitutional command to desegregate
schools does not mean that every school in every community must always reflect the racial composition of
the school system as a whole." 402 U. S., at 24. This
was said not in condemnation of existing techniques but
in disapproval of the' wooden resort to racial quotas or
racial balance. Nothing in the instant statute or in the
legislative history suggests that Congress used these
words in a new and broader sense. At most, Congress
may have intended to postpone the effectiveness of transportation orders in "de facto" cases and in cases in which
district court judges have misused their remedial powers.

DRUMMOND v. ACREE
1228

Opinion in Chambers

The question, therefore, must be whether the lower
court order in this case was for the purpose of achieving
a racial balance as that phrase was used in Swann. This
question was resolved in the negative by the Court of
Appeals. Applicants claimed on their appeal that the
District Court order called for " 'forced busing' to achieve
racial balance." 458 F. 2d, at 487. The court rejected
that contention, citing the holding in Swann that bus
transportation is one of the permissible techniques in
effecting school desegregation.
For the purpose of acting on this application, I accept
the holding of the courts below that the order was
entered to accomplish desegregation of a school system
in accordance with the mandate of Swann and not for
the purpose of achieving a racial balance. The stay application must, therefore, be denied.
It is so ordered.

2

For a complete history of this litigation see the most recent

opinion of the District Court.
1275 (SD Ga. 1972).

Acree v. Drummond, 336 F. Supp.

