1232

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Opinion in Chambers

409 U. S.

TIERNEY v. UNITED STATES
ON APPLICATION FOR BAIL

No. A-49.

Decided September 12, 1972*

Applicants had been granted "use" immunity and were testifying
before a grand jury when court-approved electronic surveillance
of a telephone resulted in interception of a conversation of their
attorney. Their refusal thereafter to answer certain questions
propounded by the grand jury resulted in commitment for civil
contempt. The applicants, claiming deprivation of their right
to counsel, appealed the commitment and applied for bail pending
disposition of the appeals. The Government responded that since
the applicants had been granted all the immunity to which they
were constitutionally entitled, there was no longer an attorneyclient privilege to be protected. Held: Bail should be granted
under the standard applicable under 28 U. S. C. § 1826 (b),
since the issues are not frivolous and the appeals are not taken
for delay.

Circuit Justice.
These are applications for bail which raise the questions comparable to those presented in In re Beverly,
A-231, in which I granted bail.
In the present cases there was electronic surveillance
of a telephone which a court had approved pursuant to
18 U. S. C. § 2518. During that surveillance a conversaMR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS,

tion of applicants' attorney was intercepted.

Applicants were testifying before a grand jury, having
been granted immunity under 18 U. S. C. § 6002 and
§ 6003.

On refusing to answer certain questions pro-

pounded, they were committed for civil contempt.
The standard for bail in civil contempt proceedings is
set forth in 28 U. S. C. § 1826 (b) which specifies that
*Together with No. A-80, Reilly et al. v. United States, also on
application for bail.

TIERNEY v. UNITED STATES
1232

1233

Opinion in Chambers

bail shall be granted if the issues are not frivolous and
if the appeal is not taken for delay. Here the immunity
granted the applicants was a so-called "use" immunity
as distinguished from the "transactional" immunity which
some of us thought was required when the issue was before us last Term in Kastigar v. United States, 406
U. S. 441.
It is now argued that applicants have obtained all the
immunity to which they were constitutionally entitled
and that there is no longer an attorney-client privilege
to be protected. Hence it is argued that the Sixth
Amendment right to counsel which weighed heavily with
me in Russo v. Byrne, ante, p. 1219 (in which I granted
a stay on July 29, 1972), is not relevant here.
I accept, of course, the Court's decision that only "use"
immunity, not "transactional" immunity, is the constitutional standard under the Fifth Amendment. The
fact remains, however, that the "leads" obtained from
testimony given after "use" immunity has been granted
can be used to indict and convict the applicants.
It seems to me therefore that the attorney-client privilege
does continue and indeed may be much more vital to
the applicants than it would have been had "transactional" immunity been the standard adopted by the
Court.
The question remains whether a search warrant issued
for electronic surveillance under the Fourth Amendment
can invade the domain of the Sixth Amendment and
destroy the attorney-client relation. That is an exceedingly serious question on which this Court has not spoken.
Beyond those two questions there is a further onewhether on the issue of relevance an in camera proceeding is adequate or whether an adversary hearing is required. That is the question central both to the Russo-

1234

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Opinion in Chambers

409 U. S.

Ellsberg case, to In re Beverly, and to the present two
cases.
Hence in spite of the fact that my Brother POWELL has
heretofore denied bail in these cases, I have reluctantly
concluded that the requisite for bail in civil contempt
cases, 28 U. S. C. § 1826 (b), has been satisfied here.

