OCTOBER TERM, 1987
Per Curiam

485 U. S.

TEXAS v. NEW MEXICO
ON BILL OF COMPLAINT
No. 65, Orig. Decided May 19, 1980 and June 17, 1983-Order entered
June 11, 1984-Decided and decree entered June 8, 1987-Decided and
amended decree and order entered March 28, 1988
In this dispute between Texas and New Mexico over the extent of New
Mexico's obligation to deliver water to Texas under the terms of the
Pecos River Compact, New Mexico's exceptions to the Special Master's
report are overruled, the report is approved, and an amended decree and
order appointing a River Master are entered.
Exceptions overruled; amended decree and order entered.
Opinions reported: 446 U. S. 540, 462 U. S. 554; order reported: 467 U. S.
1238; opinion and decree reported: 482 U. S. 124.
PER CURIAM.

Last Term we issued a decree in this case which enjoined
the State of New Mexico "to comply with its Article III(a)
obligation under the Pecos River Compact and to determine
the extent of its obligation in accordance with the formula approved by the decisions of this Court." Texas v. New Mexico, 482 U. S. 124, 133 (1987). We retained jurisdiction for
the purpose of any order, direction, or modification of the
decree as might be deemed proper. In particular, we approved the Special Master's recommendation that a River
Master be appointed in this case, and requested that on remand the Special Master "recommend an amendment to the
decree, specifying as he deems necessary the duties of the
River Master and the consequences of his determinations.
Any other suggestions for amendments should also be called
to our attention." Id., at 135.
The Special Master has now submitted a report, which includes a proposed amended decree. New Mexico's.motion
for leave to file a reply brief is granted. New Mexico's exceptions to the report are overruled. The report is approved
and an amended decree will issue forthwith. The Special

TEXAS v. NEW MEXICO
388

Per Curiam

Master has also recommended a person to serve as River
Master. We accept that recommendation.
AMENDED DECREE
IT IS ORDERED, ADJUDGED, AND DECREED THAT:

I
DEFINITIONS
A. For purposes of this Decree:
1. "Accounting year" is the calendar year during
which the River Master makes the calculations required
by Article III.B.1. below; "water year" is the calendar
year immediately preceding the accounting year.
2. "Manual" is the Pecos River Master's Manual admitted into evidence as Texas Exhibit 108, which is an
integral part of this Decree. The Manual may be modified from time to time in accordance with the terms of
this Decree.
3. "Overage" is the amount of water delivered by New
Mexico in any water year which exceeded the Article
III(a) obligation for that year.
4. "Shortfall" is the amount by which the water delivered by New Mexico in any water year fell short of the
Article III(a) obligation for that year.
II
INJUNCTION
A. The State of New Mexico, its officers, attorneys,
agents, and employees are hereby enjoined:
1. To comply with Article III(a) of the Pecos River
Compact and to meet the obligation thereof by delivering
water to Texas at state line as prescribed in this Decree.
2. Within thirty (30) days of receipt of a final Report
of the River Master identifying a shortfall, to submit to

OCTOBER TERM, 1987
Per Curiam

485 U. S.

the River Master a proposed plan providing for verifiable action by New Mexico that will increase the amount
of water at state line prior to March 31 of the year following the accounting year by the amount of the shortfall.
In order to identify the incremental amount of water
being delivered to Texas to satisfy a prior shortfall, the
plan shall:
(a) Identify the specific actions to be taken by
New Mexico to increase the amount of water flowing
to Texas, including, if applicable, the points at which
water will enter the river or diversions will be
curtailed;
(b) Specify the dates and times the actions will be
taken;
(c) Provide a calculation under the procedures
and equations set forth in the Manual of the amount
of water that can be presumed to arrive at state line
as a result of the actions;
(d) Identify the means by which the actions can
be verified and provide assurances that documents
and data necessary for verification will be submitted
to the River Master within thirty (30) days from the
date the actions are taken;
(e) Provide guarantees that the water to be delivered pursuant to the plan will not be diverted within
New Mexico.
3. To comply prior to March 31 of the year following
the accounting year with the terms of an Approved Plan
to remedy any shortfall. Compliance with an Approved
Plan will be deemed to satisfy the shortfall. Subject to
the review provided in Article III.D. of this Decree, the
calculations made pursuant to Article II.A.2(c), as approved by the River Master, shall be determinative of
the amount of water delivered at state line.

TEXAS v. NEW MEXICO
388

Per Curiam

III
RIVER MASTER
A. Appointment. The appointment of a River Master is
made by the attached Order of Appointment.
B. Duties. The River Master shall perform the following
duties:
1. Calculate in accounting year 1988, beginning with
water year 1987, and continuing every year thereafter,
pursuant to the methodology set forth in the Manual:
(a) The Article III(a) obligation;
(b) Any shortfall or overage, which calculation
shall disregard deliveries of water pursuant to an
Approved Plan;
(c) The net shortfall, if any, after subtracting any
overages accumulated in previous years, beginning
with water year 1987.
2. Deliver to the parties a Preliminary Report setting
forth the tentative results of the calculations required by
Section III. B. 1. of this Decree by May 15 of the accounting year;
3. Consider any written objections to the Preliminary
Report submitted by the parties prior to June 15 of the
accounting year;
4. Deliver to the parties a Final Report setting forth
the final results of the calculations required by Section
III.B.1. of this Decree by July 1 of the accounting year;
5. Review any plan proposed by New Mexico pursuant to Article II.A.2. of this Decree for its efficacy in satisfying any shortfall and consider any written objections
to the plan which are submitted by Texas by September
1 of the accounting year.
6. Modify the proposed plan as is deemed necessary to
ensure satisfaction of the shortfall and deliver to the parties such Approved Plan by October 1 of the accounting
year;

OCTOBER TERM, 1987
Per Curiam

485 U. S.

7. Deliver to the parties and file with this Court a
Compliance Report by June 1 of the year following any
accounting year in which there is an Approved Plan,
which report shall include a finding of New Mexico's
compliance or noncompliance with the terms of the Approved Plan and the reasons for such finding.
C. Modification of Manual.
1. The River Master shall modify the Manual in accordance with any written agreement of the parties.
Such written agreement shall state the effective date of
the modification and whether it is to be retroactive. If
retroactive, the agreement shall specify the procedures
for making the retroactive adjustments.
2. Absent written agreement of the parties, upon motion by either party and for good cause shown, the River
Master may modify the Manual. Opposition to any such
motion shall be submitted to the River Master in writing
within thirty (30) days after service of the motion or
within such extended time as may be allowed by the
River Master. Additional written submissions and any
oral presentation will be at the River Master's discretion. The River Master may adopt, reject, or amend
the proposed modification and shall serve upon the parties his or her written Modification Determination and
the grounds therefor. The River Master may also defer
decision on a proposed modification, but if no action is
taken within one (1) year of its submission, the motion
shall be deemed denied.
3. A modification of the Manual by motion shall be
first applicable to the water year in which the modification becomes effective.
4. All modifications of the Manual shall be transmitted
immediately to the Clerk of this Court and shall be retained in the files for this case.

TEXAS v. NEW MEXICO
388

Per Curiam

D. Effect of River Master's Determination. Unless stayed
by this Court, any Final Report, Approved Plan, Compliance
Report, or Modification Determination (hereinafter, collectively, "Final Determination") shall be effective upon its
adoption, and shall be subject to review by this Court only on
a showing that the Final Determination is clearly erroneous.
A party seeking review of a Final Determination must file a
motion with the Clerk of this Court within thirty (30) days
of its adoption, which motion shall set forth the Final Determination on which review is sought and a concise statement of the basis of the claim that the Final Determination is
clearly erroneous.
E. Authority of Pecos River Commission. Nothing in
this Decree is intended to displace the authority of the Pecos
River Commission to administer the Pecos River Compact,
and if the Commissioners reach agreement on any matter,
the parties shall advise the Court and seek an appropriate
amendment to this Decree.
F. Communicationwith River Master. Ex parte communications with the River Master are forbidden. Any written
communication with the River Master by motion or otherwise
shall be simultaneously served by mail on the opposing party.
Any oral communication with the River Master shall be made
in the presence of the opposing party, whether by telephone
conference call or in person.
G. Distributionof Costs. The compensation of, and the
costs and expenses incurred by, the River Master shall be approved by the Court and borne equally by the State of Texas
and the State of New Mexico.
IV
DISMISSAL OF UNITED STATES
A. The United States is dismissed from this proceeding
without prejudice.

OCTOBER TERM, 1987
Per Curiam

485 U. S.

V
RETENTION OF JURISDICTION
The Court retains jurisdiction of this suit for the purpose of
any order, direction, or modification of the Decree, or any
supplementary decree, that may at any time be deemed
proper in relation to the subject matter in controversy.
ORDER APPOINTING RIVER MASTER
IT IS ORDERED that Neil S. Grigg be and he hereby is appointed River Master of the Pecos River for the purpose of
performing the duties set forth in the Amended Decree of
March 28, 1988.
IT

Is FURTHER ORDERED that the River Master shall have

the power and authority to subpoena information or data,
compiled in reasonable usable form, which he deems necessary or desirable for the proper and efficient performance of
his duties.
IT

Is FURTHER ORDERED that the River Master is allowed

his necessary expenses and reasonable fees for his services,
statements for which shall be submitted quarterly to the
Court for its approval. Upon Court approval, such statements will be paid by the State of New Mexico and the State
of Texas.
IT

Is FURTHER ORDERED that if the position of River Mas-

ter becomes vacant during a recess of the Court, THE CHIEF
shall have authority to make a new designation
which shall have the same effect as if originally made by the
Court.

JUSTICE

JUSTICE STEVENS

sion of this case.

took no part in the consideration or deci-

