WARD & 0W v. KRINSKY.
498.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

ante, 419, that further discussion of it would be superfluous and upon the -authority of that decision the decree of
the Circuit Court of Appeals is

Affirmed.

WARD & GOW v. KRINSKY ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT, APPELLATE DIVISION, THIRD
JUDICIAL DEPARTMENT, OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.

No. 343. Argued December 14, 1921.-Decided June 5, 1922.
1. The rights of employers under the Fourteenth Amendment are not
violated by an extension of the New York Compensation Act (see
New York CentralR. R. Co. v. White, 243 U. S. 188) to all employments in which four or more workmen or operatives (farm laborers
and domestic servants excepted) are regularly employed, construed
by the state court as including, also, all other employees of the
same employer and employed in the same business with such workmen and operatives, though at places remote from their work. Pp.
510, 513, 516.
2. So held of an employer in the business of disposing of advertising
space on the cars and station platforms of subway and elevated
railway lines in a city, and of selling newspapers, etc., at booths
located on the platforms; with numerous employees, including executives, clerks, inspectors, chauffeurs and porters; and many salesmen working in the booths separately and apart from other employees; and where the injury in question was inflicted upon such
a salesman by a subway train while he was engaged in emptying
from the platform upon the tracks a pail of water, used in connection with his work in his booth. P. 507.
193 App. Div. 557; 231 N. Y. 525, affirmed.
ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of New
York, Appellate Division, entered upon remittitur from
the Court of Appeals, and affirming an award of compensation made by the New York Compensation Commission in favor of the defendant in error Krinsky.

Mr. Herman S. Hertwig for plaintiff in error.
A classification of occupations as hazardous must bear
reasonable relation to the facts.

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

259 U. S.

Down to the present time, it has been expressly recognized, by both courts and legislatures, that hazard must
in fact exist in an occupation to afford a basis for the
exercise of the police power through compensation legislation. By hazard is meant inherent dangers, greater
than those existing in the innumerable occupations commonly regarded as non-hazardous. Mountain Timber
Co. v. Washington, 243 U. S. 219; Arizona Employers'
Liability Cases, 250 U. S. 400.
The compensation plan was put into operation in New
York first over certain conspicuously hazardous occupations like mining, railway operations, etc., described in
forty-two groups. After the validity of the law was
upheld in New York CentralR. R. Co. v. White, 243 U. S.
188, in regard to such obviously hazardous employments,
it was next extended by Laws 1916, c. 622, to embrace
every employee whose employer was prosecuting one of
the hazardous operations as his principal business,
whether the occupation of the employee himself was
hazardous or non-hazardous. This extension was founded
apparently on the theory that where the principal business is hazardous, the legislature may reasonably assume
that all employees are in some manner affected by the
hazard of the principal operation. The validity of it
under the Constitution, so far as we can discover, has not
been considered, either in the state courts or in this court.
It may well be seriously questioned.
The New York Legislature took as a point of departure
in its next enlargement of the scope of the law a provision
of the Ohio Workmen's Compensation Law characterizing
as inherently hazardous the work of manual laborers in
groups of five or more. Gen. Code Ohio, §§ 1465-60, upheld in State v. Creamer, 85 Oh. St. 349; and again in
Jeffrey v. Blagg, 90 Oh. St. 376, affirmed, 235 U. S. 571.
The basis for the holding seems to have been that the
mere association of manual workers in group labor neces-

.WARD & GOW v. KRINSKY.
503.

505

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

sarily renders their work hazardous by reason of the
concurrence in such group labor of so many imperfect
human factors. Middleton v. Texas Power & Light Co.,
249 U. S. 152, f59.
With such co'perative labor groups thus established as
reasonable objects of imputed hazard, the New York Legislature proceeded to use such groups-not, like the Ohio
Legislature, simply as objects themselves of compensation,
but as the nucleus for a comprehensive group, drawing
into the compulsory compensation plan all employees of
an emploeriwho happens to employ four or more workmen or operatives. The result was second Group 45.
This extension of the law is revolutionary. If valid,
it subjects to the compulsory compensation law practically every employer of any conisequence in the State, because there are few employers with a dozen or more employees in their service who do not have at least four
among them engaged in some manual labor. They must
either maintain compensation insurance for all, at heavy
annual premiums, or else make deposits of securities with
the State to guarantee payment of compensation benefits.
In twenty years of operation by the plaintiff in error,
there have been but four accidents among employees, and
all these have been among the manual laborers who are
covered by insurance. In these twenty years, there has
never before been an accident among the other employees
constituting the vast majority of the plaintiff in error's
force.
The occupation of the claimant himself and of the vast
majority of his co-employees was conspicuously free from
hazard. His injury was the consequence, not of any hazard inherent in his employment, but of gross personal
negligence and incredible folly that would have brought
injury to any person in any occupation whatever.
In private employments, made subject to compulsory
compensation laws, the quality that has been declared by

506

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

legislatures and courts alike to clothe such employments
with public interest, and thus to justify intervention by
the legislature, has been that of inherent hazards of the
employments, exposing employees, without regard to
fault on either side, to death or to physical injuries more
or less disabling, with consequent impoverishment, partial
or total, of the workman or those dependent upon him.
Arizona Employers' Liability Cases, 250 U. S. 400, 428.
Without the presence of such hazard in an employment,
these features of public concern are lacking, and this
means, as was demonstrated in Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S.
113, that the necessary foundation for police regulation is
lacking.
Mr. E. Clarence Aiken, with whom Mr. Charles D.
Newton, Attorney General of the State of New York, was
on the brief, for the State Industrial Commission, defendant in error.
MR. JusTIcE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.

The New York Workmen's Compensation Law of 19131914 [Laws 1913, c. 816; Laws 1914, cc. 41 and 316] sustained as constitutional against attacks based on the due
process and equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth
Amendment in New York Central R. R. Co. v. White,
243 U. S. 188, after several amendments was further
amended by c. 634 of the Laws of 1918, which added to
the list of hazardous employments in § 2 a new sub-division or group, as group 45--the second to be so designated-reading as follows: "Group 45. All other employments not hereinbefore enumerated carried on by any
person, firm or corporation in which there are engaged or
employed four or more workmen or operatives regularly,
in the same. business or in or about the same establishment, either upon the premises or at the plant or away
from the plant of the employer, under any contract of hire,

WARD & GOW v. KRINSKY.
503.

Opinion of the Court.

express or implied, oral or written, except farm laborers
and domestic servants."
The present writ of error raises the question whether
the Compensation Law, as thus extended, if construed and
applied so as to impose upon plaintiff in error a liability
for compensation in the case of defendant in error Himan
Krinsky, is in contravention of either of the cited constitutional provisions.
The singularity of the facts makes a somewhat particular statement necessary to a clear understanding of the
argument. Plaintiff in error, Artemas Ward, under the
name of Ward & Gow, leases from the Interborough Rapid
Transit Company advertising and vending privileges upon
various subway and elevated railway lines in the City of
New York, and carries on the business of disposing of advertising space in the cars and on station platforms, and
selling periodicals and various articles of merchandise in
booths located upon the platforms. In the latter department, which alone requires mention, there are 307 employees, including executives, office workers, news stand
inspectors who travel singly over the different elevated
and subway lines to inspect displays and see that the sales
booths are properly kept, chauffeurs who drive trucks
transporting merchandise from headquarters downtown
in Manhattan to the different subway and elevated stations, 18 porters for loading and unloading the trucks at
headquarters, and various others, among them 125 news
stand salesmen, each of whom is stationed at a booth in a
subway or elevated railway station, and whose work is
separate from that of other employees. Each of them goes
directly to his stand in the morning and thence to his home
in the evening, and his duties consist of keeping a display
of papers, magazines, candies, and other small articles in
proper order, selling them across the counter, keeping an
account of sales and turning in the collections. The only
other employees with whom a salesman comes in contact

508

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

are the inspector, and the chauffeur who brings supplies
from the truck, either down to the subway or up to the
elevated platform, and passes them across the counter to
the salesman.
Krinsky was one of these salesmen, stationed in a booth
at a subway station in the Bronx. The booth was a steel
structure 12 feet long, 8 feet wide or high, 21/2 feet deep,
located against a wall 10 feet from the edge of the platform. In order to keep the booth and its contents free
from dust, and his hands in a proper condition of cleanliness, water was kept for convenience in the booth, in a
pail furnished by the employer, to be emptied by Krinsky
when necessary, and replenished with water obtained from
a washroom two flights of stairs above the train level. He
was in the habit of emptying the water in the morning
upon the tracks of the subway and replenishing the supply
before starting business. One morning in February, 1919,
while thus emptying the water as usual, Krinsky was
struck upon the side of the head by an approaching train,
his skull was fractured and he sustained disabling personal injuries which the Industrial Commission found
were accidental and arose out of and in the course of the
employment.
An award of compensation made by the commission was
affirmed by the Appellate Division of the Supreme Court
(193 App. Div. 557), and its judgment was affirmed without opinion by the Court of Appeals. The record was remitted to the Appellate Division, which made the order
and judgment of the Court of Appeals its own, and to it
as custodian of the record the present writ of error was
directed.
It was not disputed in the state courts, nor is it questioned here, that in the merchandising department of
plaintiff in error there were more*than four "workmen or
operatives " within the meaning of second group 45 of
§ 2 of the Compensation Law. Evidently the porters were

WARD & GOW v. KRINSKY.
503.

509

Opinion of the Court.

such, and clearly were "engaged in the same business"
with the salesmen, for they loaded the trucks which carried the merchandise from the central depot to the booths.
The Appellate Division held that the salesmen, although
not "workmen or operatives ", nevertheless were within
the protection of the statute. Reference was made to the
definition of" employee" in subdivision 4 of § 3, amended
by Laws 1916, c. 622, and Laws 1917, c. 705, so as to include anyone in the service of an employer whose principal business is that of conducting a hazardous employment, construed in previous decisions as bringing within
the protection of the statute all employees accidentally
injured in the performance of duties incidental to the
prosecution of a business defined as hazardous, even
though such duties were not a part of the characteristic
process or operation forming the basis of the group (Matter of Dose v. Moehle Lithographic Co., 221 N. Y., 401,
405; Spang v. Broadway Brewing & Malting Co., 182
App. Div. 443; Joyce v. Eastman Kodak Co., id., 354);
and it was held that since this rule applied to all the other
groups defined in § 2, it must be applied in respect to
second group 45. That the view of the Court of Appeals
was substantially the same, appears not only from its
affirming the judgment of the Appellate Division without
questioning its reasoning, but from the opinion delivered
by the Court of Appeals itself in a case decided at the,
same time with this, Europe v. Addison Amusements,
Inc., 231 N. Y. 105. Europe was conductor of a famous
band of musicians who, after a military service with the
American Forces in France, Went upon a concert tour
throughout the United States, under employment by Addison Amusements, Inc. With the band of sixty-five
pieces there were four or more workmen or operatives employed to accompany it, arrange platforms, chairs and
scenery, handle baggage, etc. Europe himself, although
an employee was not among those described as "work-

510

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

men or operatives," nor engaged in hazardous work, ordinarily so-called. During an intermission in the program of a concert he was stabbed and killed by a drummer of the band. The Court of Appeals, sustaining the
Industrial Commission and the Appellate Division, held
that he was within the protection of second group 45.
In the exercise of our appellate jurisdiction we are
bound by the construction of the state law adopted by its
court of last resort; hence for present purposes it must be
taken as settled that the legislature intended the compensation law as amended to apply to an employee in
Krinsky's situation, precisely as if it were so declared in
the words of the statute. Our function is confined to determining whether, as so construed and as applied to the
concrete facts of the case, the statute contravenes the
limitations imposed by the Fourteenth Amendment upon
state action.
-Under the due process of law clause, plaintiff in error
contends that the validity of compulsory workmen's compensation acts depends upon the inherently hazardous
character of the occupations covered; that a legislative
declaration that a certain employment is hazardous is not
conclusive; and that to impose upon the employer, as is
said to be done in this instance, a liability to make compensation to any employee out of hundreds whose occupations are non-hazardous, because four or more workmen or operatives may happen to be regularly employed
in the same business, or in or about the same establishment, although not brought into contact with the injured
employee, and where, to use the words of counsel, "his
injury was the consequence not of any hazard inherent in
his employment, but of gross personal negligence, or incredible folly that would have brought injury to any person-in any occupation whatever," is so altogether unreasonable as to be wanting in due process. The argument
rests upon the curious misconception that the legislature

WARD & GOW v. KRINSKY.
503.

Opinion of the Court.

regarded the workmen or operatives as the sole source of
danger to those engaged in the same business with them;
and upon the assumption, equally untenable, that the
occupation of a salesman at a subway station, protected
ordinarily by the comparative security of a steel booth but
called upon at times, in the line of duty, to go into the
moving throngs of passengers and into close proximity to
the rails upon which locomotives and trains are moving,
is free from inherent hazard to the salesman.
That Krinsky's injuries arose out of and in the course
of his employment was found by the commission, whose
findings and decision were affirmed by both courts, and
must be conclusive upon us unless ascertained to be without support in the evidence, including any reasonable inference that may be drawn from it.
As has been seen, he was charged with the sale of a
stock of merchandise belonging to the employer, and for
this purpose was stationed in a booth placed upon the
platform of a subway station, about ten feet from the
tracks. There was evidence showing that he had sole
responsibility for the care and display of this merchandise,
which, of course, he was to sell to the passing throngs of
train passengers, and was required to keep the booth, the
stock, and his own person in a cleanly condition. The
employer supplied a container for water to be used for
the latter purpose, and naturally this was kept in the
booth, emptied and replenished by Krinsky as occasion required. He was not instructed how this should be done,
and the state commission and courts reasonably might
infer that he was at liberty to do it in the most convenient
and expeditious mode. To say, as is suggested, that he
was constrained to close and lock the booth, leave it and
go up two flights, either by elevator or staircase, in order
to empty the water, with consequent interruption of business in the meantime (thirty minutes, according to the
evidence), when the same object could be accomplished

512

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

in a few moments and without closing the booth by stepping ten feet across the platform to the edge of the track
and there emptying the water, relying upon a volunteer
assistant to bring a fresh supply, would be to place a
strained and unreasonable construction upon the scope of
implied duties. True, he might have avoided the particular hazard that overtook him, had he chosen the
tedious journey two flights up and down again, instead of
the half-dozen steps across the platform to the edge of the
track. Whether, in the hurry and bustle of a subway
crowd, the nature of Krinsky's duties required or permitted him to follow the slower course, or even that it
involved less probability of personal injury than the one
habitually adopted, are questions upon which the commission and the state courts are peculiarly fitted to draw
correct inferences. Certainly, we are not warranted in
holding that the findings are without support in the evidence.
A sufficient vindication of compulsory Workmen's Compensation and Employers' Liability Acts, as it has seemed
to this court, is found in the public interest of the State
in the lives and personal security of those who are under
the protection of its laws; from which it follows that, when
men are employed in hazardous occupations for gain, it is
within the power of the State to charge the pecuniary
losses arising from disabling or fatal personal injury, to
some extent at least, against the industry after the manner of casualty insurance, instead of allowing them to rest
where they may happen to fall-upon the particular injured employees or their dependents; and to this end to
require that the employer-he who organizes and directs
the enterprise, hires the workmen, fixes the wages, sets a
price upon the product, receives the gross proceeds, pays
the costs and the losses and takes for his reward the net
profits, if any-shall make or secure to be made such compensation as reasonably may be prescribed, to be paid in

WARD & GOW v. KRINSKY.
503.

513

Opinion of the Court.

the event of the injury or death of one of those employed,
instead of permitting the entire risk to be assumed by the
individuals immediately affected. In general, as in the
New York law, provisions for compulsory compensation
are made to apply only to those employed in hazardous
occupations, where it may be contemplated by both parties in advance that sooner or later some of those employed
probably will sustain accidental injury in the course of the
employment, but where nobody can know in advance
which particular employees or how many will be the victims, or how serious will be the injuries. New York Central R. R. Co. v. White, 243 U. S. 188, 202, et seq.; Mountain Timber Co. v. Washington, 243 U. S. 219, 239, 243244; Arizona Employers' Liability Cases, 250 U. S 400,
420, 422-426.
That there was inherent hazard in Krinsky's occupation
is conclusively shown by the fact that in the course of it
he received a serious and disabling personal injury arising
out of it. That the event might have been foreseen is
demonstrated by the way in which it occurred, not to
speak of the fact that the legislature actually foresaw it
and made provision for it, long before it occurred. Hence
there was no undue deprivation of the liberty or property
of plaintiff in error, or his right to acquire property in lawful business, in the act of the legislature which required
him to take warning and make provision against the event
which afterwards in fact occurred.
It will be seen that while, by the terms of the statute,
the employment of "four or more workmen or operatives
regularly, in the same business or in or about the same
establishment," etc., apparently is indicated as the basis
of the new group--one rather frequently adopted in laws
of this character, Jeffrey Manufacturing Co. v. Blagg, 235
U. S. 571, 574, etc.; Middleton v. Texas Power & Light
Co., 249 U. S. 152, 159;-in effect, by the construction
adopted by the state court and binding upon us, the em-

514

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

ployees brought within the compensation features of the
act include not only the "four or more workmen or operatives ", or others injured through contact with them, but
any and all other employees in the same business who
may suffer accidental and disabling injury arising out of
and in the course of their employment, although due to
incidental hazards not typical of the group.
The contention that by this construction second group
45 has been extended beyond the limit allowable consistently with due process of law and "has been applied
in this case to an employment with no inherent hazard
whatever," rests upon an assumption of fact disproved by
Krinsky's experience. Were it not so, the argument is
self-destructive. The statute requires the employer to
make or secure compensation for the disability or death of
an employee only where it results from accidental personal injury arising out of and in the course of the employment. Where the employment is entirely free from
inherent hazard to the employee, the statute imposes no
responsibility upon the employer, hence cannot substantially interfere with his liberty or property, with or without "due process of law." Arizona Employers' Liability
Cases, 250 U. S. 400, 429.
Reducing the argument by omitting the extravagant
statement that so plainly leads to absurdity, it may be
outlined thus: .that Krinsky's occupation was no more
hazardous than that of millions of residents of the metropolitan district who daily make use of the subways and
elevated railways in going to and from their work;
that there had been no such accident among plaintiff
in error's employees in 20 years of operation; and that
it is unreasonably and unnecessarily burdensome to require the employer to either maintain compensation insurance at heavy annual premiums, or deposit securities with
the State to guarantee payment of compensation benefits,
where the probability of injury is so slight. The answer is

WARD & G0W v. KRINSKY.
503.

515

Opinion of the Court.

easy: To the self-insurer no liability accrues except as disabling injuries actually occur; the giving of security, a
reasonable regulation in aid of the general scheme (New
York CentralR. R. Co. v. White, 243 U. S. 188, 208-209),
does not increase the obligation. To the employer who insures, presumably the premiums will not exceed a reasonable estimate of the risk; to him who insures in the state
fund, there is an assurance of equivalency in the public
administration of the fund under § 90, et seq., of the law,
especially the duty imposed upon the state board by § 95
to keep separate accounts as to each group so as to determine equitable rates, to rearrange the groups by withdrawing any employment embraced in one group and
transferring it wholly or in part to another, to set up new
groups at discretion, to determine the hazards of the different classes composing each group and to fix the premiums therefor, based upon the total pay-roil and number
of employees in each class of employment, at the lowest
possible rate consistent with the maintenance of a solvent
insurance fund and the creation of a reasonable surplus
and reserve. A similar system was sustained in Mountain
Timber Co. v. Washington, 243 U. S. 219, 241-243.
The fallacy of the argument for holding it arbitrary and
unreasonable to impose upon the employer the burden of
making compensation in employments where injury is improbable and difficult to be foreseen, should be fairly apparent when it is pointed out that, in the absence of the
statute, not a part but the entire loss consequent upon a
disabling or fatal injury arising out of and in the course of
the employment would have to be assumed and borne by
the disabled employee or his dependents, just as under
the statute they still must bear all beyond the scheduled
compensation. Yet they have no better opportunity to
foresee the casualty than the employer, and (in the judgment of the legislature) less opportunity to make pro-

516

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

vision against it. The common-law rule, requiring the
employee to assume the risk, and to take account of it in
advance when fixing the wages, recognized dimly that the
cost of industrial accidents ought to be borne by the industry, but failed to effectuate such a purpose, partly for
the very reason that the hazard could not be estimated by
the individual in advance, nor the loss provided against
without co6peration.
The extension of the Compensation Law by addition of
second group 45, following the recent modification of the
definition of "employee," far from demonstrating in its
application to Krinsky's case unreasonable, arbitrary action by the State through its legislative department,
shows, rather, intelligent foresight, an anticipation, based
upon practical experience in the operation of the law as it
stood before, that, however little foreseen by persons inmediately concerned, accidental disabling injuries inevitably would ocbur in occupations not previously classed as
hazardous, and a reasonable determination to include them
in a scheme already found to be free from constitutional
objection in its general application.
We have sufficiently indicated grounds for holding that
the statute as thus extended is not repugnant to the guaranty of "due process of law " in the Fourteenth Amendment.
That it does not deny to plaintiff in error "the equal
protection of the laws," is equally clear. The argument
that it does proceeds upon the untenable theory that if
hazard be imputed to the employment of "four or more
workmen or operatives regularly, in the same business or
in or about the same establishment," its effect in the
scheme of compensation must be confined to the hazards
attributable to group labor. In Jeffrey Manufacturing
Co. v. Blagg, 235 U. S. 571, 575; and Middleton v. Texas
Power.& Light Co., 249 U. S. 152, 159, a somewhat similar
classification was sustained, but not upon any limited

WARD & GOW v. KRINSKY.
503.

Opinion of the Court.

ground. In the framing of so far-reaching a scheme of
legislation, dealing with occupations so diverse, necessarily
a wide range must be accorded to legislative discretion
about defining the groups to which it shall apply. Lines
must be drawn, and it is not to be assumed that they have
been drawn without good reason. The difference between
the larger and the smaller establishments may be recognized as a basis of classification in legislation affecting the
defenses of contributory negligence and assumption of
risk, as was held in Jeffrey Manufacturing Co. v. Blagg,
supra. So, the minimum number in a single employ may
be regarded, we think, in arranging a system designed to
distribute the burden of industrial accident losses with a
view to the ability of the industry to bear it. Nor need a
law framed on the lines of that under consideration confine
the compensation narrowly -to typical cases, where it is
confined, as here, to cases actually arising in the course
of gainful employment, and due to inherent hazards of the
occupation. Second group 45 applies impartially to all
employers who come within the descriptive terms; the
employment of "four or more workmen or operatives
regularly" is treated as the nucleus of a business probably
involving personal hazard to some of those employed; and
the same rule of construction is applied to this as to other
groups.
But, it is insisted, neither stare decisis nor ita lex scripta
est furnishes an adequate reply to a constitutional objection. This court sustained the New York Workmen's
Compensation Law, and the kindred statutes of Washington and Arizona, fundamentally upon the ground of the
hazardous nature of the occupations covered. If that
ground is defensible at all-so runs the argument-the
system must be confined to occupations actually hazardous
in their nature; a legislative definition is not sufficient,
nor is the occurrence of a single accident, much less one so
singular and so little related to his general duty as that

518

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

which befell Krinsky, adequate proof of occupational hazard. It might occur to anybody, any day, on his way
downtown to business, were he not especially careful.
This is too fantastic a definition of "inherent risk" to
form a basis of a law which must conform to standards
of reasonableness. And again, how can the classification
resorted to in second group 45 be sustained as reasonable,
within the requirements either of the "due process of
law" or the "equal protection of the laws" provisions of
the Fourteenth Amendment? The occupation of a salesman stationed alone far uptown in the Bronx does not become hazardous simply because four or more porters are
regularly employed at headquarters downtown in Manhattan. How can we accept the reason suggested by the
Court of Appeals in the Europe Case, supra, (somewhat
at random, it should be said, and when the court, by its
own confession, was not required to test its adequacy),
"that a business not ordinarily hazardous becomes such at
times when manual work is done or machinery operated in
connection with its main purpose"? This would be an
assumption contrary to common experience-especially
as applied to manual work downtown in Manhattan and
the occupation of a single salesman-it might as well have
been 500 clerks-uptown in the Bronx. What reason is
there for imposing compulsory liability upon the employer
of salesmen or clerks in the Bronx simply because he finds
it convenient to employ at the same time, but in separate
duties, four workmen or operatives in Manhattan? He
might dismiss the workmen-his neighbor and business
competitor might dispense with such workmen-and thus
gain immunity from the statute. Classification is permissible in legislation only when based on reasonable
grounds. This peculiar grouping is classification gone
wild. It cannot be sustained by the simple and obvious
tests applied in Jeffrey ManufacturingCo. v. Blagg, supra,
and kindred cases.

WARD & GOW v. KRINSKY.
503.

519

Opinion of the Court.

This, we believe, is a fair summary of the reasoning
expressed or suggested in the brief and in the oral argument of plaintiff in error. We have not minimized its
force, and concede that, if it is to be taken seriously, it
seems to subject second group 45, and the Compensation
Law as extended by this and other recent amendments, to
a test that ought to be responded to satisfactorily if the
validity of the statute is to be made clear.
Many of the propositions may be admitted-for the
purpose of the argument only-as correct according to a
priori standards, and unanswerable without resort to the
tests of experience. We shall endeavor, with some care, to
answer from the latter standpoint, not contenting ourselves with some rather too obvious replies already suggested.
The New York Workmen's Compensation Law by its
terms is based upon the existence of actual, not hypothetical, inherent hazards confronting employees in gainful occupations; was sustained as valid by this court upon
that ground in New York Central R. R. Co. v. White,
supra;has been administered by the State constantly on
that basis; and second group 45 shows no clear evidence
of a purpose to depart from it. We leave wholly aside, as
not here involved, the question whether the new group
could be sustained on any other basis. Any question
.about the validity of an act purporting to impose compulsory liability upon employers for losses due to occupational hazards where there really are no occupational hazards, may safely be left until such a case is presented.
Next, we agree that, in a test of constitutionality under
the Fourteenth Amendment, the question whether there is
inherent hazard in an occupation or a group of occupations is not to be settled conclusively by a legislative
declaration or by an empty form of words. We add, it is
not to be settled, hardly is affected, by an arbitrary a
priori statement, unaided by the light of experience in

520

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

which the legislature acted, that there is absolutely no inherent hazard in an occupation, especially where it appears that even one employee has been seriously injured
while acting in the line of his duties in a manner that
easily might have been anticipated by the employer, or
the inspector who supervised his work, to say nothing of
the employee himself, had either of these exercised the
ordinary care of the reasonably prudent man to whom the
common law so frequently resorts for a standard. The
legislature, in the New York system, is justified in extending the benefits of the Compensation Law as far as it
reasonably may determine occupational hazard to extend
-to the "vanishing point" as it were-and any lines of
group definition it may adopt, if easily understood and applied, cannot reasonably be called "an empty form of
words" merely because they do not carry on their face
the reasons for adopting them.
Again, we agree that (if it were necessary, as we hold it
is not, that group lines should explain themselves), the
suggestion quoted from the opinion of the Court of Appeals in the Europe Case hardly offers a satisfactory explanation of the new' group, reasonably definite and substantial in its basis, within the tests of the Fourteenth
Amendment. But this court, while bound by the construction of the statute adopted by the state court of last
resort-that being a question of state law-is not concluded by its reasoningbut must exercise an independent
judgment, when called upon to determine the federal
question whether the act as construed and applied, is repugnant to the restrictions of the Amendment. Any suggestion from the state court in aid of the act fairly may
be accepted; but a suggestion having an adverse effect,
while entitled to respectful consideration, is not to be
taken as weakening the action taken by the State through
its legislative branch, or as furnishing an exclusive statement of the grounds upon which the legislature acted. It

WARD & GOW v. KRINSKY.
503.

Opinion of the Court.

is proper to say that in the Europe Case no question of
the constitutionality of the new group 45 appears to have
been presented, and the court alluded to the phraseology
merely to dispose of the question of construction.
In examining the Compensation Law and its mhany
amendments, including the one in question, and the workings of the law as indicated by the decisions cited and
others, we have been impressed again and again, to the
point of complete conviction, that this act or any of its
amendments is not the work of novices or bunglers. A
priori reasoning has not been resorted to; there is no reliance upon generalizations or "common knowledge "; rio
"simply because "; nothing taken for granted. No case
that we recall illustrates more aptly or forcibly the wisdom
of the familiar rule, expressed by this court in a recent oase
in these terms: "There is a strong presumption that h
legislature understands and correctly appreciates the needs
of its own people, that its laws are directed to probleng
made manifest by experience, 'aidthat its discriminations
are based upon adequate grounds." iliddleton v. Tvxds
Power & Light Co., 249 U. S. 152, 157. The law was
passed in 1913 and reenabted in 1914 after the taking effect
of a constitutional amendment adopted under circumstances mentioned in!the White Case, 243 U. S. 188, 195;
the decision of this court was announced in March, 1917;
meanwhile, administration commenced July 1, 1914, and
was continued for four years prior to the enactment of
second group 45; a multitude of compensation rulings,
opinions of the Attorney General, and court decisions,
sufficiently reported to the public, together with the administration of the state insurance fund and a study and
adoption of the plan of classifications used by private
casualty insurance companies for underwrifing business,
may give but an inadequa4e impresiow of the informed,
expert opinion upon-which the legisature might, and we
fairly may presume did, draw for aid in framing the new
group.

522

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

What was it they were aiming at, and how did they seek
to accomplish it? We need not be sure of hitting upon a
correct, much less a complete, explanation. Upon the general presumption referred to the questioned group must
stand, unless it were demonstrated to a moral certainty,
beyond a reasonable doubt, that the grouping could not
possibly be explained on reasonable grounds.
Let us assume that after four years' practical experience
in the operation of the Compensation Law, aided by the
intensive studies of the Commission, the legislature was
satisfied with the law as well suited to the needs of the
people, except that it did not go far enough and left uncovered much unclassified ground where undefined and
virtually undefinable industrial hazards remained. It was
desired to leave out, as before, farm laborers and domestic
servants; a classification sustained upon simple grounds,
doubtless far from expressing in full the reasons that had
actuated the legislature, in New York CentralR. R. Co. v.
White, 243 U. S. 188, 208.
Aside from this, let us suppose it was desired to extend
the beneiits of the law as far as practicable from the administrative standpoint; abandon the attempt to go further in grouping occupations as hazardous because of the
names by which they are described, include all remaining
businesses, above a fixed minimum, in a single group, treat
them all as more or less hazardous, and leave questions as
to the particular degree of hazard, and the proper grouping of businesses as between themselves, to be worked out
by the Commission in the light of experience, according
to the methods of private casualty insurance companies,
as already was done with the existing groups.
Was actual inherent hazard ignored? Not at all; rather
it was treated as virtually universal, but incapable of being
precisely defined or classified by fixed statutory rules in
advance, and more easily treated in the light of experience; the new group was to be a part of a law which oper-

WARD & GOW v. KRINSKY.
503.

Opinion of the Court.

ates, as nearly as experience may guide, not in vacuo, but
only where there is actual inherent hazard and to the extent that it extends.
But why begin with "four workmen or operatives regularly employed?" Possible answer: It was necessary to
begin somewhere; the legislature must decide where; it is
reasonable to believe there is some actual inherent hazard,
where even as few as four workmen or operatives are employed steadily, though it be no more than may arise from
the danger of their injuring each other; besides, an employer who has as many as four workmen or operatives
regularly employed, reasonably may be counted on to have
a payroll account that may be made the basis upon which
to compute the premiums for state insurance; below four,
the business perhaps hardly would pay the cost of administration, hardly give opportunity to distribute the loss,
according to the general principle of insurance which runs
throughout the Compensation Law.
But why extend the responsibility of the employer to
others in the same employ whose occupations are separate
and non-hazardous? Possible answer: It is the employer
himself who commingles in a single business or establishment those doing the more hazardous with those doing the
less hazardous work, if it is done. If it be practicable to
carry them on separate payrolls, presumably the Commission has the discretion to adjust it in fixing the amount
of securities to be deposited under § 50, or the premium
rate under § 95. Further possible answer: The difficulty
is inherent in the subject; in years of practical experience, it had been found that in the extremely varied and
complex organization of industry, disabling or fatal injuries occur when least expected, and in ways not characteristic of any particular industry described. The legislature hardly could be called upon to predict, any more
than the employer, who was to be injured; and to confine
the cost of casualty insurance strictly to those who were

524

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

sure to be "casualties ", might baffle the efforts even of
the experienced legislators who framed second group 45.
Accidents cannot be relied upon to follow the symmetrical
lines of group description; this is a difficulty that showed
itself under the groups as they stood before, and led to the
1916 amendment of the definition of "employee ". Even
clerks and salesmen cannot, in this busy day, be confidently
treated as immune from industrial hazards; if a general
rule must be declared, it would be safer to say, on the
basis of experience, that no occupation is free from industrial hazard, than to say that any specified occupation
is free. Even the probable oversights or want of vision of
the employer are an appreciable source of danger to clerks,
as witness Joyce v. Eastman Kodak Co., 182 App. Div.
354, where a clerk employed by a maler of photographic
cameras and supplies (classed as hazardous in group 23)
but engaged in clerical duties having no direct connection
with the manufacture, was injured because of a defect of
the chair in which she was sitting at work. A like suggestion arises in the case before us, where the employer
insured the chauffeurs who drove the trucks with merchandise to the various stations, but failed to insure the
salesmen, overlooking the fact that they also occasionally
were subjected to peril in the line of duty. It may be objected that these cases are not typical; but the legislature
may have realized, as an element of the problem with
which they were dealing, what indeed is proverbial, that
accidents do not conform to types; that they are one thing
that happen "simply because "-they are accidents. The
particular cases are not imaginary; they actually occurred,
and were brought to the test of the Compensation Law.
The legislature may have had the best of reasons for believing that others as strange were happening rather frequently in the great, busy, bustling population of the Empire State; that while an individual clerk's or salesman's
life and limb perhaps were less in danger than an indi-

WARD & GOW v. KRINSKY.
503.

Opinion of the Court.

vidual machinist's, yet they were in appreciable danger;
there were more clerks and salesmen than machinists;
many times, naturally, they would be employed in the
same business with machinists, or other "workmen or
operatives "; any seeming incongruity or unfairness in
grouping them together under the Compensation Law
may be taken care of through the operation of the law
itself, according to the tests of experience; second group
45 will cost nothing, in the large sense, beyond expenses of
administration, if it should happen to reach where industrial hazard is non-existent; it will not be more burdensome than the industrial losses prove to be, where such
hazards do exist.
And so we venture to suggest again, what has been
hinted before, that the common employer may have been
the mysterious link between the workmen in downtown
Manhattan and the 125 scattered salesmen so far removed
from the dangers of group labor. The legislature may
have found it impracticable to charge industrial losses
against the industry without seeking out him to whom it
falls to pay other expenses; hence took the industries as
they found them actually organized, holding each employer responsible as to all in his employ "in the same
business or in or about the same establishment ", etc.,
leaving the Industrial Commission to determine in particular cases whether the hazards are great or small,
whether the employer should be required to deposit securities in advance, inwhat amount, what the premium
rate ought to be, and all doubtful matters, according to experience; confident that an employer competent to conduct a business requiring "four or. more workmen or operatives regularly" may be relied upon to make a profit
above his payroll, insurance premiums, and other like expenses.
The State of New York, by constitutional amendment,
has made this system due process of law for that State.

526

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
McREYxouIs and

MCKENNA,

JJ., dissenting.

259 U. S.

We are unable to say that in extending it by the addition
of second group 45 the State has in the least degree exceeded the limitations imposed by the Fourteenth Amendment.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JusTIcE MCREYNOLDS, with -whom concurred MR.
McK-ENNA, dissenting.

JusTcC

The New York Workmen's Compensation Law provides:
" § 2. Application. Compensation provided for in this
chapter shall be payable for injuries sustained or death incurred by employees engaged in the following hazardous
employments:
"Group 45. All other employments not hereinbefore
enumerated carried on by any person, firm or corporation
in which there are engaged or employed four or more workmen or operatives regularly, in the same business or in or
about the same establishment, either upon the premises
or at the plant or away from the plant of the employer,
under any contract of hire, express or implied, oral or
written, except farm laborers and domestic servants."
By subdivision 4, § 3, "employee" is defined as"A person engaged in one of the occupations enumerated
in section two or who is in the service of an employer whose
principal business is that of carrying on or conducting a
hazardous employment upon the premises or at the plant,
or in the course of his employment away from the plant
of his employer; and shall not include farm laborers or
domestic servants."
In Europe v. Addison Amusements, Inc., 231 N. Y. 105,
the Court of Appeals construed these provisions and some
quotations from the opinion will show their far-reaching
effect.

WARD & GOW v. KRINSKY.
503.

McREYNouas and MCKENNA, JJ., dissenting.

"The legislature, in § 2, has classified certain employments as hazardous, and has given the right of compensation to employees engaged in such hazardous employments.
"By the amendment of subdivision 4, § 3 (Laws of 1916,
c. 622, § 2), an employee, to be entitled to compensation,
is no longer required to be himself engaged at the time of
accident in hazardous work. It is sufficient that he is an
employee in such hazardous business. Matter of Dose v.
Moehle LithographicCo., 221 N. Y. 401.
"Group 45 as above quoted, was added by the Laws of
1918, c. 634, § 2. The legislature classified as hazardous
employments all those occupations in which there were
regularly engaged four or more workmen or operatives.
It covered employments not specified in the other subdivisions. No doubt it was considered a risk to be in an
employment where four or more manual laborers or operatives were engaged. It is not necessary for us finally to
define or limit the words 'workmen' or 'operatives' as
used in this subdivision. Generally speaking, a workman
is &man employed in manual labor, whether skilled or
unskilled, an artificer, mechanic or artisan, and an operative is a factory hand, one who operates machinery.
Webster's New International Dictionary. - There is a
marked distinction between a workman and an employee.
Although in a general sense all workmen and operatives
are employees, yet all employees are not workmen or operatives, within the meaning of this law. The words 'workmen' and 'operatives' are used in their narrower meaning. Bowne v. S. W. Bowne Co., 221 N. Y. 28.
"Europe, however, was an employee within the meaning of § 3, subd. 4, employed in a business or enterprise
classified as hazardous, because it employed regularly
four workmen or operatives. The evidence permitted the
finding that the four men above named did manual work,
consisting of moving scenery, arranging the stage, handling
baggage, and cleaning and pressing clothes,

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
MOREYNOLmS and MCKENNA, JJ., dissenting.

259 U. S.

"Why the legislature should have extended by the second group of subdivision 45 the hazardous employments
to any employment having four workmen or operatives is
not for us to say. The courts, in construing statutes, are
not concerned with the wisdom of the legislation. Wilson
v. C. Dorflinger & Sons, 218 N. Y. 84, 86.
"We do not think, however, that the legislature has
exceeded its powers of classification by this extension of
hazardous employments. It may be, as above intimated,
that a business not ordinarily hazardous becomes such at
times when manual work is done or machinery operated
in connection with its main purpose.
"Whether or not the legislature can extend the benefits
of compensation to all employments irrespective of workmen's hazards we are not called upon, at this time, to
decide."
Apparently former opinions of this court have upheld
workmen's compensation acts against the claim that they
destroy the right freely to contract and thereby deprive of
property without due process of law upon the theory that
the State may charge pecuniary losses arising from personal injuries against the industry, when men are employed in hazardous occupations for gain. If "hazardous
occupations " is not a mere empty phrase, there must be
real hazard-legislative declaration is not enough. And
hazard is something more than the mere possibility of injury which is always present.
Opinions of the court below have so construed the
challenged provisions that if a merchant while employing
five hundred clerks in New York City, no one of them
within the Workmen's Compensation Act, should employ
four workmen to paint signs or nail up boxes at Buffalo, all
his clerks would immediately come under the act. The
occupation of a clerk stationed in New York City cannot
be rendered hazardous simply because four workmen are
employed at Buffalo. To argue that an occupation is

WARD & GOW v. KRINSKY.
503.

McRLYNOLDS and

MCKENNA,

529

JJ., disenting.

hazardous because some one engaged therein has received
personal injuries is not helpful. Many have suffered
fatal accidents while eating, but eating could hardly be
called hazardous. If, as suggested by the court below,
"it was considered a risk to be in an employment where
four or more manual laborers or operatives were engaged"
irrespective of anything else, then the assumption is contrary to common experience.
If the State has power to declare an employer liable
whenever his employee is injured, irrespective of hazard,
the discussions heretofore indulged which treated hazard
as important were unfortunate and misleading. But if
that element can be wholly disregarded, then consideration must be given to the classification adopted by the
New York statute in its relation to the equal protection
clause. As often declared, classification is permissible
when rational. But what possible reason is there for imposing liability in favor of a hundred employees otherwise outside of the compensation statute simply because
their employer has found it desirable to hire four men to
do manual work in a shop or dig trenches miles away from
the only place where the hundred serve?
Such cases as Jeffrey Manufacturing Co. v. Blagg, 235
U. S. 571, and Middleton v. Texas Power & Light Co.,
249 U. S.152, are not pertinent. The classifications there
approved rested upon the obvious truth "that the negligence of a fellow servant is more likely to be a cause of
injury in the large establishments, employing many in
their service, and that assumed risk may be different in
such establishments than in smaller ones," or upon some
other distinction declared to be "sufficiently patent, simple and familiar."
In the present case it is said that the plaintiff in error
may be put into a peculiar group and required to compensate Krinsky solely because he employed mechanics
to hammer at a bench miles away from the station where

530

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

259 U. S.

Krinsky sold papers, magazines, candy and chewing gum,
and sometimes applied a little soap and water to his
hands. I think both the due process and equal protection
clauses of the Amendment forbid.
PRUDENTIAL INSURANCE COMPANY OF AMERICA v. CUEEK.
ERROR TO THE ST. LOUIS COURT OF APPEALS, STATE OF
MISSOURI.
No. 149.

Argued March 6, 1922.-Decided June 5, 1922.

1. The Service Letter Law of Missouri, requiring every corporation
doing business in the State to furnish, upon request, to any employee, when discharged or leaving its service, a letter, signed by
the superintendent or manager, setting forth the nature and duration of his service to the corporation and stating truly the cause
of his leaving, is not an arbitrary interference with freedom of
contract amounting to a deprivation of liberty or property without
due process of law. P. 534.
2. This requirement is within the regulatory power of the State over
foreign and domestic corporations. Pp. 536, 544.
3. The requirement does not deny the equal protection of the laws
in being made of corporations and not of individuals. P. 546.
4. The Federal Constitution imposes no restriction on the States
protective of freedom of speech, or liberty of silence, or the privacy
of individuals or corporations. P. 543.
5. A decision of a state court holding that an agreement of several
insurance companies havihg a monopoly of a line of insurance
business in a city, that neither would employ within two years
any man who had been discharged from or left the service of either
of the others, was unlawful, and sustaining an action against one
of the companies by its former employee for damages resulting from
the agreement, does not deprive the defendant of property without
due process of law in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment.
P. 547.
6. Under Jud. Code § 237, as amended 1916, when a case is properly
here on writ of error because involving the constitutionality of a
statute, other federal questions which in themselves warrant review
only by certiorari, will be determined also. P. 547.
223 S. W. 754, affirmed.

