AMERICAN SMELTING CO. v. IT. S.
44.

75

Syllabus.

relief may, of course, be had in a proper proceeding.

And likewise if the plaintiffs now have, as individuals,
rights entitled to protection, there are appropriate remedies. But this is not such a suit. Here members of a corporation seek to enforce alleged derivative rights; and I
doubt whether they have shown that they are in a position

to do so.
AMERICAN SMELTING AND REFINING COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 221.

Argued April 25, 1922.-Decided May 15, 1922.

1. A contract made during war for war material to be delivered by
a specified date, which was as early as delivery would be practicable under the circumstances, is within the exception of Rev.
Stats., § 3709, dispensing with advertising for purchases when
public exigencies require immediate delivery. P. 78.
2. The formalities of Rev. Stats. § 3709, are to protect the United
States, not the seller. P. 78.
3. The fact that an offer and an acceptance by correspondence are
both made in express contemplation of a more formal document
to follow does not prevent their constituting a contract. P. 78.
4. At a time when a price for copper to the Government had been
fixed under Act of August 29, 1916, c. 418, § 2, 39 Stat. 649,
claimant received from the War Department a proposal in writing for delivery of a stated amount at that price before a certain
date under shipping orders to be supplied by the Department
and accepted it in writing at the Department's request and upon
its advice that no payment could be made without such acceptance. Held:
(a) A contract, and not a requisition under the National Defense
Act of June 3, 1916, c. 134, § 120, 39 Stat. 213, which authorized,
in addition to purchase, the obtaining of material by compulsory
orders, for a fair and just compensation. P. 78.
(b) The claimant, having completed deliveries after alleged delays
in shipping orders and after the government price had been increased under the Act of August 29, 1916, supra, could not, in
respect of such deliveries, claim freedom from the contract because

76

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

of such delays and recover the difference between the new and
contract prices upon the theory that the deliveries were compulsory and called for a fair compensation under the National Defense
Act and the Fifth Amendment. P. 79.
(c) Damages for the Government's delay in performing, could not be
had upon a petition framed on the theory of a compulsory requisition. P. 79.
(d) The case was not within the Act of March 2, 1919, c. 94, 40
Stat. 1272, authorizing relief to contractors furnishing supplies under
agreements not executed in the manner provided by law. P. 79.
55 Ct. Clms. 466, affirmed.
APPEAL from a judgment of the Court of Claims dismissing appellant's petition on demurrer.

Mr. William B. King and Mr. George A. King, with
whom Mr. Charles Earl and Mr. George R. Shields were
on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. William C. Herron, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck was on the brief, for the United States.
MR. JusTIcE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a claim for $512,515.50, being the price of
20,500,620 pounds-of copper at twenty-six cents a pound
less payments received at twenty-three and a half cents.
The petition was dismissed by the Court of Claims on
demurrer. The facts alleged are as follows. The Government had some correspondence with the United Metals
Selling Company ending in an order or proposal for
30,000 metric tons of copper for the French Government
to be delivered on or before June 1, 1918. To this the
Company replied on March 26, 1918, that the Copper
Producers Committee had divided the handling of copper and had given the export business to the American
Smelting & Refining Company. The letter requested
that the order be changed to apply to the last named company and concluded "they tell us that it will quite fit
in with their operations to handle this present order along

AMERICAN SMELTING CO. v. U. S.
75.

Opinion of the Court.

with the other shipments." Thereupon, on March 28,
1918, a letter was written by the Ordnance Department
to the American Smelting & Refining Company, " to advise you that the Procurement Division is prepared to
procure from you 30,000 metric tons (66,138,000 pounds)
of copper at a price of 23 c. per pound net, f. o. b. New
York basis. Deliveries are to be completed on or before
June 1, 1918 "; shipping instructions to be taken up with
the Supply Division, Ordnance Department; with further
particulars not material and ending, "Your acceptance
of this letter is requested pending issuance of formal contract which will go forward in a few days." The representative of the claimant seems to have delayed an
answer in the hope of adjusting one or two details but on
April 11, wrote " We have your favor March 28th . . .
and take pleasure in accepting your letter as above pending issuance of formal contract which we hope to receive
in the near future." The copper except the 20,500,620
pounds, was delivered before July 2, 1918, has been paid
for and no question is raised about it. But it was practically impossible to deliver this last amount until after
that date and no shipping orders for it were received until
a later time. It was delivered finally and the claim for
the advanced price is based upon the facts and arguments that we shall state.
At the time when the order was accepted the PriceFixing Committee of the War Industries Board, an agency
of the Council of National Defence, had fixed the price of
copper at 23 cents per pound f. o. b. New York, under
the Act of August 29, 1916, c. 418, § 2, 39 Stat. 619, 649,
and the authority of the President. On July 2, 1918, the
price was advanced to 26 cents per pound. The National
Defence Act of June 3, 1916, c. 134, § 120, 39 Stat. 166,
213, had authorized the President in time of war "in addition to the present authorized methods of purchase or
procurement, to place an order" for material required;

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

made compliance with such orders obligatory under a
penalty, and gave them precedence. The compensation
paid was to be fair and just. The position of the claimant is that, although the language of contract was used,
it was yielding to the requirements of the statute and is
entitled to the fair price that the statute promised. The
fair price, it contends, for copper delivered after the
change of July 2, is twenty-six cents, because the delay is
alleged to have been due to the failure of the Government
to send shipping orders and to the fact that further deliveries were made impossible for the time by the Government's appropriating all the copper available to other
uses. It also argues that there was no valid contract,
since the agreement was not made by advertising and
was not within the exception when the public exigencies
require immediate delivery. Rev. Stats., § 3709.
We may lay the latter objection on one side. There
can be no question that the war created a public exigency
and it would be going far to deny that the contract was
for a delivery as immediate as was practicable :p ,: the
subject-matter. Moreover the statutory requirements
were for the protection of the United States, not of the
seller. United States v. New York & Porto Rico S. S.
Co., 239 U. S. 88. Of course the expressed contemplation of a more formal document did not prevent the letters from having the effect that otherwise they would
have had. The only serious argument is the supposed
duress. But that can not prevail. It may be true that
the claimant was yielding to the statute in a general way
and did not discriminate between what it was required to
yield and what it could reserve. But if it had desired to
stand upon its legal rights it should have saved the question of the price. It did not do so, but on the contrary
so far as appears was willing to contract and was content
in the main with what was offered. As was pointed out
by the Court of Claims, the acceptance was sent because

AMERICAN SMELTING CO. v. U. S.
75.

Opinion of the Court.

the claimant was advised by the Government that no
payment could be made until the claimant had accepted
in writing the Government's proposal, whereas no acceptance was necessary if the order was a compulsory
requisition. We are of opinion that the claimant must
stand upon the letters of March 28 and April 11.
The claimant argues that under its contract it was set
free by the delay in shipping orders, and that although
it did not refuse to proceed on that account, the omission should be credited to patriotism not to a waiver of
legal rights. But whatever the motives for its conduct
the claimant kept the contract on foot. It even is said
to have requested to be allowed to continue deliveries
after June 1. Its claim if any must be for damages on
the ground that the United States did not perform its
part of the contract on time. Such a claim is not necessarily waived by completing performance. St. Louis Hay
& GrainCo. v. United States, 191 U. S. 159, 164. But the
petition is framed on the theory that there was no contract but a requisition under the above mentioned Act
of June 3, 1916, c. 134, § 120, and that the claimant is
entitled to just compensation by that section and by the
Fifth Amendment to the Constitution. This we hold to
be a mistake. Whether any claim for damages could be
urged is not before us; the petition discloses grounds for
doubt at least. Our judgment excludes any remedy under
the Act of March 2, 1919, c. 94, 40 Stat. 1272, providing
for supplies and services furnished under agreements not
executed in the manner prescribed by law. We have said
nothing about repeated requests that the claimant should
sign a formal contract, its refusals, 'nd its ultimate signing under protest, because these fabts in no way modify
the relation of the parties under the contract by letters
already made.
Judgment affirmed.

