CARLISLE PACKING CO. v. SANDANGER.
247.

255

Syllabus.

share of both the old and new stock will be the quotient
of the cost, or fair market value as of March 1, 1913, if
acquired prior to that date, of the old shares of stock
divided by the total number of the old and new
shares ... "
That the averaging of cost might present more administrative difficulty in a case more complicated than the
present, as where the old shares were acquired at different
times, is not a sufficient ground for denying the soundness
of the method itself.
Various suggestions, more or less ingenious, as to how the
profit ought to be computed, made by counsel for defendant in error and by an amicus curiae, have been examined
and found faulty for reasons unnecessary to be mentioned.
Upon the whole, we are satisfied that the method adopted
by the District Court led to a correct result.

Judgment affirmed.
CARLISLE PACKING COMPANY v. SANDANGER.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
WASHINGTON.

No. 195. Argued March 24, 1922.-Decided May 29, 1922.
1. According to the general maritime law, a seaman injured in the
service of the ship on navigable waters may recover indemnity
from the ship or her owner if the injuries Nwere in consequence of
her unseaworthiness, but not upon the ground of the negligence of

the master or any member of the crew. P. 258.
2. These rules apply whether the suit be in an admiralty or in a
common-law court. P. 259.
3. Irrespective of negligence, a motor boat is unseaworthy if not
equipped with life preservers or if, when she leaves the dock, on
waters where there prevails a custom to start galley fires by means

of coal oil, a can marked " coal oil " is filled with gasoline. P. 259.
4. Where a seaman recovered a verdict of compensatory damages
for injuries by fire, due to the presence of gasoline in a can usually

containing coal oil employed in starting a stove, and due to the

256

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Petitioner.

259 U. S,

absence of life preservers, held, that error in submitting the case
to the jury on the theory of the owner's negligence was harmless,
since the facts as found by the jury warranted the recovery upon
the ground of unseaworthiness. - P. 259.
5. When there is only one possible claimant and'one vessel owner,
the privilege of limited liability accorded by Rev. Stats., § 4283,
may be claimed in a state court by proper pleading; but the claim
is too late when first presented by a request for a charge to the

jury. P. 260.
112 Wash. 480, affirmed.
CERTIORARI to a judgment of the Supreme Court of the

State of Washington, affirming a judgment rendered by a
trial court against the present petitioner in an action
brought by the respondent to recover damages received
while serving as a seaman on board the petitioner's vessel.
Mr. J. Harry Covington,with whom Mr. James A. Kerr
Mr. Evan S. McCord and Mr. Joseph N. Ivey were on the
brief, for petitioner.
If under the maritime law, whether found in federal
statutes or in decisions of federal courts, the petitioner
is not .liable for damages to respondent in excess of his
wages and expenses incident to curing him, then under
§ 24, Jud. Code, no greater damages can be recovered in
a common-law action in the state court.
Admiralty would hive had jurisdiction, since respondent was a seaman.
By the maritime law, for the injuries to respondent the
petitioner was liable only to the extent of respondent's
wages, maintenance and cure, unless his injur* was received in consequence of the unseaworthiness of the ship
or a failure to supply and keep in order the proler appliances appurtenant to the ship. The Osceola, 189 U. S.
158, 175.
Respondent should not have recovered more than his
maintenance and cure for negligence of the master. The
Osceola, supra; Chelentis v. Luckenbach S. S. Co., 247
U. S. 372.

CARLISLE PACKING CO. v. SANDANGER.
255.

257

Opinion of the Court.

The presence of gasoline in a can, supposed to contain
kerosene and used to help light a galley fire, would not
render the ship unseaworthy, nor would it be a failure to
supply and keep in order the proper appliances appurtenant to the ship. The New York, 204 Fed. 764; The
Santa Clara,206 Fed. 179; Hanrahanv. Pacific Transport
Co., 262 Fed. 951; s. c., certiorari denied, 252 U. S. 579;
The Santa Barbara,263 Fed. 369.
The petitioner could in no event be liable beyond the
value of the vessel and the freight money for the current
voyage. Rev. Stats., §§ 4283, 4289; The Alola, 228 Fed.
1006; Butler v. Boston & Savannah S. S. Co., 130 U. S.
527; La Bourgogne, 210 U. S. 95, 120; Oceanic Steam
Navigation Co. v. Mlellor, 233 U. S. 732; White v. Island
TransportationCo., 233 U. S. 350; Craig v. Continental
Insurance Co., 141 U. S. 638.
Mr. M1aurice McMicken, for respondent, submitted.
MR. JusTICE McREYNoLDs delivered the

opinion of the

court.
The Supreme Court of Washington affirmed a judgment
against petitioner Packing Company rendered by the trial
court upon a verdict for damages on account of injuries
which respondent suffered while, employed upon petitioner's motor boat afloat in navigable Alaskan waters.
Respondent claimed that, prior to the departure of the
boat upon a trip intended to occupy perhaps six or eight
hours, petitioner or its agents negligently filled with gasoline and placed thereon a can which ordinarily contained
coal oil (and was so labelled) for use according to the
prevailing custom in those waters to start fires in the
small stove where meals were cooked and water heated.
Without knowledge of the substitution, respondent poured
the gasoline upon the fire wood, applied a match, an explosion resulted and he was badly burned. He further

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

claimed that no life preservers had been placed on board
and that his injuries were aggravated by delay attending
search for one before he jumped into the water to extinguish his flaming clothes.
The trial court held "the basis of the action is negligence," and instructed the jury according to the commonlaw rules in respect thereto. It said that if petitioner
or its authorized agents negligently filled the can with
gasoline and placed it upon the boat, and if by reason of
such negligence respondent suffered injury, he was entitled to recover compensatory damages therefor, provided he himself had not been guilty of contributory
negligence. Further, that if the injuries resulting directly
from the explosion were aggravated because no life preservers had been placed on board, then additional compensation could be awarded for such aggravation. Also
that if the explosion occurred without petitioner's negligence but the absence of life preservers caused aggravation of respondent's injuries, he would be entitled to recover for such injuries as resulted directly from the negligence in respect of the life pieservers but not for those
caused solely by the explosion.
We have heretofore announced the general doctrine
concerning rights and liabilities of the parties when one of
a crew sustains injuries while on a vessel in navigable
waters.
"The vessel and her owners are liable, in case a seaman
falls sick, or is wounded, in the service of the ship, to the
extent of his maintenance and cure, and to his wages, at
least so long as the voyage is continued.
"The vessel and her owner are, both by English and
American law, liable to an indemnity for injuries received
by seamen in consequence of the unseaworthiness of the
ship, or a failure to supply and, keep in order the proper
appliances appurtenant to the ship.
"All the members of the crew, except perhaps the master, are, as between themselves, fellow servants, and hence

CARLISLE PACKING CO. v. SANDANGER.
255.

259

Opinion of the Court.

seamen cannot recover for injuries sustained through the
negligence of another member of the crew beyond the
expense of their maintenance and cure.
"The seaman is not allowed to recover an indemnity
for the negligence of the master, or any member of the
crew, but is entitled to maintenance and cure, whether
the injuries were received by negligence or accident."
The Osceola, 189 U. S. 158, 175; Chelentis v. Luckenbach
S. S. Co., 247 U. S. 372, 380, 381.
The general rules of the maritime law apply whether
the proceeding be instituted in an admiralty or commonlaw court. Chelentis v. Luckenbach S. S. Co., supra;
Knickerbocker Ice Co. v. Stewart, 253 U. S. 149, 159.
Here the trial court did not instruct the jury in consonance with these rules, and by failing so to do, fell into
error.
But mere error without more is not enough to upset the
judgment, if the record discloses that no injury could have
resulted therefrom. West v. Camden, 135 U. S. 507, 521.
Considering the custom prevailing in those waters and
other clearly established facts, in the present cause, we
think the trial court might have told the jury that without
regard to negligence the vessel was unseaworthy when she
left the dock if the can marked " coal oil" contained gasoline; also that she was unseaworthy if no life preservers
were then on board; and that if thus unseaworthy and
one of the crew received damage as the direct result
thereof, he was entitled to recover compensatory damages. The Silvia, 171 U. S. 462, 464; The Southwark,
191 U. S. 1, 8. The verdict shows that the jury found
gasoline had been negligently placed in the can or that
through negligence no life preservers were put on board,
or that both of these defaults existed, and that as a result
of one or both respondent suffered injury without contributory negligence on his part. In effect the charge was
more favorable to the petitioner than it could have de-

260

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

259 U. S.

manded, and we think no damage could have resulted from
the erroneous theory adopted by the trial court. The
Caledonia, 157 U. S. 124, 131; Thompson Towing &
Wrecking Association v. McGregor,207 Fed. 209, 211.
Petitioner asked an instruction that § 4283 of the Revised Statutes 1 applied, and that under it the verdict could
not exceed the value of the vessel. In a state court, when
there is only one possible claimant and one owner, the advantage of this section may be obtained by proper pleading. The Lotta, 150 Fed. 219, 222; Delaware River Ferry
Co. v. Amos, 179 Fed. 756. Here the privilege was not
set up or claimed in the answer, and it could not be first
presented upon request for a charge to .the jury.
The judgment below must be
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE concurs in the result.

OLIN v. KITZMILLER ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 246. Argued April 21, 1922.-Decided May 29, 1922.
The compact between Washington and Oregon, approved by Congress April 8, 1918, agreeing that all laws and regulations for regulating, protecting or preserving fish in the waters of the Colupnbia
River of which the two States have concurrent jurisdiction shall
be made and altered only with the consent of both States, and the
'Sec. 4283. The liability of the owner of any vessel, for any embezzlement, loss, or destruction, by any person, of any property, goods,
or merchandise, shipped or put on board of such vessel, or for any
loss, damage, or injury by collision, or for any act, matter, or thing,
lost, damage, or forfeiture, 'done, occasioned, or incurred, without the
privity, or knowledge of such owner or owners, shall in no case exceed
the amount or value of the interest of such owner in such vessel,
and her freight then pending.

