414

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

EX PARTE IN THE MATTER OF HARLEY-DAVIDSON MOTOR COMPANY ET AL., PETITIONERS.
PETITION FOR A WRIT OF MANDAMUS.

No. 26, Original. Motion for judgment notwithstanding rule to show
cause. Submitted April 24, 1922.-Decided June 5, 1922.
1. The granting by the District Court with the acquiescence of the
parties of an order of interlocutory injunction, merely that it
may be appealed to the Circuit Court of Appeals and the cause
thus in effect be submitted to that court as though it were a court
of original jurisdiction, is not a compliance with ยง 129, Jud. Code,
which contemplates review after the District Court has itself
heard and considered. P. 416.
2. An appeal in such case gives jurisdiction to the Circuit Court of
Appeals; and, although that court may decline to consider the
merits and may reverse and remand the cause for proper proceedings because of the pro forma character of the order appealed
from, it cannot dismiss the appeal for that reason, and thus leave
the interlocutory injunction in force. P. 418.
Mandamus issued.
MANDAMUS

to require the Circuit Court of Appeals and

its judges to entertain and determine an appeal from an
order of the District Court granting an interlocutory
injunction.
Mr. Melville Church, Mr. William S. Hodges and Mr.
Edwin B. H. Tower, Jr., for petitioners, in support of the
motion.
MR. JuSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
Harley-Davidson Motor Company and Alexander Klein

filed a petition for a writ of mandamus to the judges of

the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. In
substance it sets forth: That in a suit for infringement of
letters patent relating to clutches for motorcycles, brought
in the District Court of the United States for the Eastern

EX PARTE HARLEY-DAVIDSON CO.
414

415

Opinion of the Court.

District of Pennsylvania by the Eclipse Machine Company and Frederick E. Ellett against the petitioners, a
decree was entered by the District Court dismissing the
plaintiffs' bill, 244 Fed. 463. Upon appeal to the United
States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit the
decree of the District Court was reversed, 252 Fed. 805.
The District Court pursuant to the mandate of the Circuit Court of Appeals entered an interlocutory decree adjudging claims 1, 8,. 11 and 12 of letters patent No.
1,018,890, and claim 1 of letters patent No. 1,071,992 to
be valid and infringed by the petitioners; and granted
an injunction, with reference to a master to take and state
an account. Subsequently, in the proceedings before the
master, petitioners insisted that the master should exclude from consideration certain other types of .clutches,
which are described. The later types, it is averred, were
devised after and in view of the decision of the Circuit
Court of Appeals, and were being largely manufactured
and sold by the petitioners. But the master overruled
the petitioners' contention and ordered that the accounting proceed as to said types of clutches. The petitioners
filed a petition in the District Court asking the court to
direct the master to exclude from the accounting the
clutches aforesaid, but the District Court denied the petition and confirmed the order of the master. Plaintiffs
made and submitted a motion to the District Court asking that petitioners be enjoined from manufacturing,
using or selling the types of clutches in controversy. The
District Court entered an interlocutory order granting an
injunction and allowing an appeal from the order to the
Circuit Court of Appeals. Petitioners thereafter duly
perfected their appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals,
consisting of the judges named in the present petition.
That court dismissed the appeal without passing upon the
merits thereof, although it was properly taken under ยง 129
of the Judicial Code. Petitioners prayed for the writ of

416

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

mandamus to the judges constituting the Circuit Court of
Appeals, and to that court; commanding them and it to
entertain and determine the appeal, and for such other
relief as might seem appropriate and in conformity to law.
An order to show cause was issued, and a return made
by the judges. The cause now comes on for hearing on
motion for judgment for the petitioners notwithstanding
the return.
The -return sets forth that the order in the District
Court granting the interlocutory injunction was entered
pro forma as a means of propounding certain questions of
infringement to the Circuit Court of Appeals which the
District Court failed to pass upon. It recites the proceedings in the District Court in the attempt to exclude
from the accounting the disputed types of clutches, and
avers that in the course of the proceedings the District
Court ruled that while ordinarily it would be its duty to
determine the question raised as to whether or not the
particular types were within the decree of infringement,
it suggested that the plaintiffs move for an injunction
restraining petitioners (then defendants) from making,
using or vending the same, and that the District Court
pro forma allow or deny the writ, that an appeal be
promptly taken. A stipulation of counsel was filed in accordance with this suggestion. The District Court denied the motion to direct the course of accounting before
the master, and allowed the interlocutory injunction pro
forma. The return further sets forth that upon this
record, supplemented by the frank statements of counsel
to the same effect, the court declined to hear the appeal
and dismissed it, leaving the order in question wholly
within the control of the District Judge.
Section 129 of the Judicial Code provides:
"Where upon a hearing in equity in a district court,
an injunction shall be granted, . . . an appeal may be taken from such interlocutory order or de. . an injunction."
cree granting

EX PARTE HARLEY-DAVIDSON CO.
414.

417

Opinion of the Court.

In a memorandum accompanying the return the judges
of the Circuit Court of Appeals set forth that the order
below having been made pro forma, without the exercise
of judicial discretion by the District Court, did not present in any real sense an appealable order. The return
further states that the order made was not in accord with
the established practice in the Third Circuit. That the
remedy to prevent the use of the clutches made after the
decree, and claimed to have been in violation thereof,
should have been sought by attachment for contempt, a
proceeding for an accounting, or an original bill.
We have examined the record before us on this application, which includes the opinions of the District Court
and the Circuit Court of Appeals. As this is an application for the writ of mandamus, we have no authority to
review the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals such
as we would have in cases brought before this court on
appeal or writ of error. We accept, indeed there is little
room to question, the conclusion and judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals that the order of the District Court
was made pro forma for the purpose of laying the foundation for an appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals.
The Circuit Court of Appeals, upon abundant showing,
found that the District Judge, not wishing to exercise an
independent judgment upon the questions raised, made a
pro forma order granting the injunction to the end that
an appeal might be prosecuted. This was done with the
acquiescence of counsel. We agree with the Circuit Court
of Appeals that the effect of this method of procedure was
to submit the cause to it as though it were a court of original jurisdiction, and to put upon it a labor of examination
and consideration not imposed by the statute. The purpose of the statute is to enable the Circuit Court of Appeals to review the order of the District Court after that
court has itself heard and considered the application.
The practice of thus entering pro forma judgments or de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

crees has been disapproved by this court in William Cramp
& Sons Co. v. InternationalCurtiss Marine Turbine Co.,
228 U. S. 645. See also United States v. Gleeson, 124 U. S.
255.
We agree with the Circuit Court of Appeals that it was
not required to consider the order, thus made by the District Court, as one properly before it on its merits. But
the Circuit Court of Appeals had acquired jurisdiction by
the appeal, and did not reverse the order of the District
Court and remand the cause for proper proceedings, as
it might have done. It dismissed the appeal. The effect of such dismissal was to leave the interlocutory injunction in full force. In this respect the Circuit Court
of Appeals failed to exercise the jurisdiction conferred by
law. The statute gave an appeal; the appellant had the
right to have it decided. By the order of dismissal that
right was denied.
We conclude that a writ of mandamus should issue requiring the Circuit Court of Appeals to decide the appeal
presented. That course will leave it within its power to
reverse and remand the cause to the District Court for
further proceedings in accordance with law, because of the
view it took of the record growing out of the pro forma
character of the order appealed from.
Mandamus issued.

