OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Statement of the Case.

259 U. S.

UNITED STATES EX REL. FRENCH v. WEEKS,
SECRETARY OF WAR.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF

COLUMBIA.
No. 724.

Argued April 20, 1922.-Decided May 29, 1922.

1. The Army Reorganization Act of June 4, 1920, c. 227, § 24b, 41
Stat. 773, provide& (1) for a preliminary classification of all officers into two classesA, those who should be, and B, those who
should not be, retained in the service; (2) for a hearing of those
placed in class B, before a Court of Inquiry, and (3) for a reconsideration of each case so heard by a Final Classification Board
whose finding, it declares, "shall be final and not subject to further
revision except upon the order of the President." Held:
(a) That review of a finding of the Final Classification Board placing
an officer in class B is discretionary with the President, not a right
of the officer, and that the finality of the Board's action is not
dependent on the President's approval, either personal or delegated. P. 332.
(b) The power of the President to approve such findings may be
exercised, on his behalf and under his authority, by the Secretary
of War. P. 334.
2. Proceedings of lawfully constituted military tribunals, acting
within the scope of their lawful authority, with jurisdiction over
the person and subject-matter involved, cannot be reviewed or set
aside by the civil courts by mandamus or otherwise. P. 335.
277 Fed. 600, affirmed.

to a judgment of the Court of Appeals of the
District of Columbia, which reversed a judgment of the
Supreme Court of the District granting the writ of mandamus against the present defendant in error and dismissed the proceeding. See also the next case, post, 336.
ERROR

Mr. Samuel T. Ansell and Mr. Charles Pope Caldwell,
with whom Mr. Edward S. Bailey was on the brief, for
plaintiff in error. For a summary of their argument in
this and the next succeeding case, see post, 337.

FRENCH v. WEEKS.
326.

Opinion of the Court.

31Mr. Solicitor General Beck and Mr. FrederickM. Brown
for defendant in error.
Mr. Daniel Wilkinson Iddings, by leave of court, filed
a brief as amicus curice.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE

delivered the opinion of the court.

In the petition in this case a writ of mandamus is prayed
for, commanding the Secretary of War to annul an order
by him, purporting to have been made by direction and
authority of the President, approving the action of a final
classification board and retiring the relator, Colonel John
W. French, from active service in the Army, under the
provisions of § 24b of the Army Reorganization Act, approved June 4, 1920, c. 227, 41 Stat. 759, 773, and to restore him to the status of a Colonel of Infantry which he
had before the order. The Secretary of War filed an answer and a demurrer thereto being sustained, the writ was
allowed by the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, as prayed for. This judgment was reversed by the
Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia and the case
is here on writ of error for construction of the statute and
on the question of the jurisdiction of 'the court to issue a
writ of mandamus in such a case.
The Army Reorganization Act is intended to provide for
a reduction of the Army of the United States to a peace
basis while maintaining a standard of high efficiency. To
contribute to this purpose, Congress made elaborate provision in the act for retaining in the service officers who
had proved their capacity and fitness for command and
for retiring or discharging those who, for any reason, were
found to be unfit. Every step of this process is committed
to military tribunals, made up of officers, who by experience and training should be the best qualified men in the
country for such a duty, but with their action all subject,
as we shall see, to the supervisory control of the President
of the United States.

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.

328

Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

Not being in any sense a penal statute, the act should
be liberally construed to promote its purpose, and it is of
first importance that that purpose shall not be frustrated
by unnecessarily placing technical limitations upon the
agencies which are to carry it into effect. Street v. United
States, 133 U. S. 299.
Section 24b deals only with the "Classification of Officers," and is printed in the margin.1 The process provided
by the section for classifying and reducing the number of
officers, is as follows:
First: The President shall convene a board of not less
than five general officers, which shall arrange all officers
in two classes, viz: "Class A, consisting of officers who
should be retained in the service, and Class B, of officers
who should not be retained in the service." This classification is tentative and since it is intended simply to
furnish a basis for further action the board will be referred
1 "Sec.

24b.

CLASSIFICATION OF

OFFICERs.-Immediately upon the

passage of this Act, and in September of 1921 and every year thereafter, the President shall convene a board of not less than five general
officers, which shall arrange all officers in two classes, namely: Class A,
consisting of officers who should be retained in the service, and
Class B, of officers who should not be retained in the service. Until
otherwise finally classified,,all officers shall be regarded as belonging to
Class A, and shall be promoted according to the provisions of this Act
to fill any vacancies which may occur prior to such final classification.
No officer shall be finally classified in Class B until he shall have been
given an opportunity to appear before a court of inquiry. In such
court of inquiry he shall be furnished with a full copy of the official
records upon which the proposed classification is based and shall be
given an opportunity to present testimony in his own behalf. The
record of such court of inquiry shall be forwarded to the final classification board for reconsideration of the case, and after such consideration the finding of said classification board shall be final and not
subject to further revision except upon the order of the President.
Whenever an officer is placed in Class B, a board of not less than
three officers shall be convened to determine whether such classification is due to his neglect, misconduct or avoidable habits. If the find-

FRENCH v. WEEKS.
326.

329

Opinion of the Court.

to herein as the "Preliminary Classification Board." No
exception is taken as to the manner in which this board
was convened or as to its composition.
Second: If, when an officer is notified that he has been
placed in Class B by the Preliminary Classification Board,
he shall request, as Colonel French did, an opportunity
to appear before a Court of Inquiry, then "he shall be
furnished with a full copy of the official records upon
which the proposed classification is based and shall be
given an opportunity to present testimony in his own
behalf."
The powers and procedure of such a Court of Inquiry
are not defined in the section, but their definition is found
in c. II of the act, being Articles of War 97 to 103, inclusive (41 Stat. 807) in which it is provided, that such a
Court of Inquiry "shall consist of three or more officers"
(Art. 98), that it "shall not give an opinion on the merits
ing is affirmative, he shall be discharged from the Army; if negative,
he shall be placed on the unlimited retired list with pay at the rate
of 21 per centum of his active pay multiplied by the number of complete years of commissioned service, or service which under the provisions of this Act is counted as its equivalent, unless his total commissioned service or equivalent service shall be less than ten years,
in which case he shall be honorably discharged with one year's pay.
The maximum retired pay of an officer retired under the provisions of
this section prior to January'l, 1924, shall be 75 per centum of active
pay, and of one retired on or after that date, 60 per centum. If an
officer is thus retired before the completion of thirty years' commissioned service, he may be employed on such active duty as the Secretary of War considers him capable of performing until he has completed thirty years' commissioned service. The board convened upon
the passage of this Act shall also report the names of those second
lieutenants of the Quartermaster Corps who were commissioned under the provisions of section 9 of the Act of June 3, 1916, who are not
qualified for further promotion. The officers so reported shall continue in the grade of second lieutenant for the remainder of their
service and the others shall be placed upon the promotion list according to their commissioned service, as hereinbefore provided."

330

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

-

259 U. S.

of the case inquired into unless specially ordered to do
so" (Art. 102), and that "it shall keep a record of its
proceedings, which shall be . . . forwarded to the convening authority." (Art. 103.) In this case, however,
§ 24b provides that the record of the Court of Inquiry
shall be forwarded to the Final Classification Board.
Third: After a hearing has been had by a Court of
Inquiry the section requires that its record shall be forwarded to the Final Classification Board for reconsideration of the case, "and after such consideration the finding
of said classification board shall be final and not subject
to further revision except upon the order of the President."
No objection is made in this court to the manner of the
convening nor to the membership of this Board.
Fourth: After the Final Classification Board has made
a finding, if the President does not order further revision
and the officer who has demanded the Court of Inquiry is
continued in Class B, then the section provides that another "board of not less than three officers shall be convened to determine whether such classification is due to
his neglect, misconduct or avoidable habits. If the finding is affirmative, he shall be discharged from the Army;
if negative, he shall be placed on the .unlimited retired list
with pay," as provided in the section.
This board will be hereinafter referred to as the "Honest and Faithful Board," a name by which it is commonly
and widely designated. The action of this board is not
and could not be complained of for it was favorable to
the relator.
It is to be observed that there is no requirement in the
section that the officer whose case is under consideration
shall either be notified of the hearing or that he shall be
heard, by any of the tribunals thus provided for, except
the Court of Inquiry.
The facts essential to the decision of the case, derived
from the allegations of the petition not. denied in the

FRENCH v. WEEKS.
326.

331

Opinion of the Court.

answer and from the allegations of the answer admitted
by the demurrer, are as follows: When the relator was
notified that he had been tentatively placed in Class B
as an officer not to be retained in the Army, he requested
a Court of Inquiry, which was thereupon convened. He
appeared before that court, was represented by counsel,
and was given an opportunity to present testimony of
himself and others in his behalf of which he availed
himself.
The record of the Court of Inquiry was forwarded to
the Final Classification Board for reconsideration of the
case, but the classification of relator in Class B was adhered to by that board, and was approved by the Secretary of War, under authority from the President, which,
it is averred and admitted by the demurrer, was given to
him prior to any determination in the relator's case. Prior
to the submission of the record of the Final Classification
Board to the Honest and Faithful Board for the purpose
of having determined the cause of the relator's classification, the Secretary of War, "acting on behalf of and by
the authority of the President," signed at the foot of that
record the notation: "Approved: Baker, Secretary of
War." After the Honest and Faithful Board had determined that relator's classification was not due to his
own neglect, misconduct or avoidable habits, he was retired from service by the following order:
"Washington, D. C., December 24, 1920.
"The action of the Classification Board in finally classifying Colonel John W. French, Infantry, in Class B, is
approved by the President, and, by his direction, a board
of officers having determined that such classification is not
due to the officer's neglect, misconduct or avoidable habits,
Colonel French is retired from active service, after twentytwo years of commissioned service, under the provisions
of section 24b of the act of Congress approved June 4,
1920.

"NEwTovN D. BAXER,

"Secretary of War.'"

332

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

Newton D. Baker having been succeeded by John W.
Weeks as Secretary of War, Secretary Weeks was substituted as defendant in the case.
While there are allegations in the petition that various
formalities in the procedure prescribed by § 24b were not
complied with, reliance is not placed upon any of these,
in the assignments of error in this court and in argument
the relator presses only one question upon our attention
for decision, viz:
It is contended that § 24b imposes a personal, nondelegable, judicial duty upon the President, to review the
record of the Board of Final Classification in each case
after it has made a finding, and by his- order, to approve
or disapprove it, and that because the approval in this
case was not made by the President personally but by the
Secretary of War, actifg under delegated general direction
and authority from the President, it is void and must be
so treated.
The construction of the section thus contended for, obviously, would place such a burdensome, if not impossible,
personal duty upon the President during the process of
reducing the Army from a war to a peace basis that if
Congress had intended to attempt such a thing, we may
be sure its purpose would have been clearly expressed, and
not left to doubtful implication.
The argument for the relator is bottomed entirely upon
the use of the words "except upon the order of the President," for there is nothing else in the section suggesting
participation by the President after the convening of the
Preliminary Classification Board, and we are thus brought
to consider the construction which should be placed upon
these seven words.
To give the effect claimed for the words by the relator
would result in denying any meaning whatever to the
clear and emphatic declaration immediately preceding
them that "the finding of said classification board shall

FRENCH v. WEEKS.
326.

Opinion of the Court.

be final and not subject to further revision," for it would
render such finding ineffective in every case until approved by the President, and then, of course, its effect and
finality would be derived from the President's approval
and not from the finding of the Board, which would be
rendered, at most, merely advisory. Familiar principles
(United States v. Gooding, 12 Wheat. 460; Peck v. Jenness, 7 How. 612; Montclair v. Ramsdell, 107 U. S. 147),
forbid the acceptance of such a construction save under
the compulsion of a clear expression of congressional purpose, such as is not to be found in either the section or the
act we are considering.
But both the meaning and purpose of the entire expression seem very clear. The declaration that the finding of the Final Classification Board shall be "final and
not subject to further revision " could not be more emphatically worded, while the exception "upon the order
of the President" is in such general terms that it plainly
contemplates only discretionary action on his part to be
taken, on the suggestion of the Secretary of War in special cases, on the application of officers involved or their
friends, or on his own "mere motion." The exception
plainly enough was inserted, not for the purpose of imposing a very great burden upon the President, but rather
as a congressional recognition of the right in him as the
Chief Executive and Commander-in-Chief of the Army
(a right which he probably would have had without it),,
to interfere in such cases at his option, leaving the finding
of the Board to become final should he elect not to take
any action, and perhaps, also, for the purpose of forestalling the chance of its being successfully argued that
the unusual finality--" not subject to further revision "given to the finding of the Board, was intended to place
such finding beyond the power of interposition in any case
by the President. This construction gives consistent effect
to each clause of the provision and that contended for by
the relator must be denied.

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

In support of his contention, which has thus been rejected, the relator relies upon Runkle v. United States,
122 U. S. 543; United States v. Page, 137 U. S. 673, and
United States v. Fletcher, 148 U. S. 84. All of these were
court-martial cases, conducted under authority of the then
65th Article of War (2 Stat. 367, c. 20), which prescribed
that the sentence of such a court in cases such as were
there under consideration should not be carried into execution "until after the whole proceedings shall have been
transmitted to the Secretary of War, to be laid before the
President of the United States, for his confirmation or disapproval, and orders, in the case." It was held, obviously
enough, that the quoted language called for personal review and action by the President and that making him,
as it did, in effect, a member of the court, the required review was judicial in character and therefore nondelegable.
The difference between such a statute and the one we
have here renders these decisions too plainly inapplicable
for discussion.
Under the construction of § 24b thus arrived at neither
personal nor delegated approval by the President of the
finding by the Final Board of Classification was necessary
before action by the Honest and Faithful Board, and, if
no action whatever had been taken by him through the
agency of the Secretary of War, that finding, by force of
the express words of the statute, would have become
"final and not subject to further revision," and thereupon
the case would have been ripe for the further action prescribed by the statute.
Since the section did not require personal action by the
President, the action on his behalf and by his authority,
taken by the Secretary of War, was in a legally sufficieqt
form. Rev. Stats., § 216; Wilcox v. Jackson, 13 Pet. 498,
513; Williams v. United States, 1 How. 290, 297; Chicago,
Milwaukee & St. Paul Ry. Co. v. United States, 244 U. S.
351, 357.

FRENCH v. WEEKS.
326.

Opinion of the Court.

But the Court of Appeals held that the action of the
Secretary of War, which is assailed in the case, was taken
in the exercise of duly delegated administrative power bf
the President and was really executive action by him
which the courts may not control by mandamus or otherwise and that, therefore, the judgment of the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia was without jurisdiction
and void.
As a Colonel in the Army, the relator was subject to
military law and the principles of that law, as provided by
Congress, constituted for him due process of law in a constitutional sense. Reaves v. Ainsworth, 219 U. S.296, 304.
By the demurrer it is admitted that the three Boards
and the Court of Inquiry, provided for by § 24b, were
lawfully convened and constituted. They obviously had
jurisdiction over the relator and over the subject-matter
involved, and there is no contention that any of them exceeded the scope of its lawful powers. The only infirmity
claimed to exist in the entire proceeding is, that the review
and approval of the findings of the Final Classification
Board and the ultimate order retiring relator from the
Army, were made by the Secretary of War, "acting in the
name of and by the authority of the President," instead of
by the President personally. But we have found this contention unsound and that the action of the President by
the Secretary was a legally sufficient compliance with the
act of Congress.
Thus we have lawfully constituted military tribunals,
with jurisdiction over the person and subject-matter involved unquestioned and unquestionable, and action by
them within the scope of the power with which they are
invested by law. It is settled beyond controversy that
under such conditions decisions by military tribunals,
constituted by act of Congress, cannot be reviewed or set
aside by civil courts in a mandamus proceeding or otherwise. Johnson v. Sayre, 158 U. S.109, 118; Carterv. Mc-

336

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

259 U. S.

Claughry, 183 U. S. 365, 380, 381; MuUan v. United

States, 212 U. S. 516, 520; Collins v. McDonald, 258
U. S. 416.
"If it were otherwise, the civil courts would virtually
administer the rules and articles of war, irrespective of
those to whom that duty and obligation has been confided
by the laws of the United States, from whose decisions no
appeal or jurisdiction of any kind has been given to the
civil magistrate or civil courts." Dynes v. Hoover, 20
How. 65, 82.
It results that, because the action of the President,
given effect by the order of the Secretary of War, was in
full compliance with the act of Congress, and also because
the Supreme Court did not have jurisdiction to order the
writ of mandamus prayed for, the judgment of the Court
of Appeals reversing the judgment of that court must be
Affirmed.
UNITED STATES EX REL. CREARY v. WEEKS,
SECRETARY OF WAR.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF

COLUMBIA.
No. 725.

Argued April 20, 1922.-Decided May 29, 1922.

1. French v. Weeks, ante, 326, followed, to the effect that § 24b of
the Army Reorganization Act does not require personal and judicial action on the part of the President precedent to the final
classification of an army officer as one to be retired or discharged
from the Army. P. 342.
2. Section 24b of the Army Reorganization Act does not violate due
process of law in not affording an officer who, after due hearing
before a Court of Inquiry, has been classified by the Board of
Final Classification as one who should not be retained in the
service, a notice and a further hearing before the further determination, by another board, of the question whether the classification was due to his neglect, misconduct or avoidable habits, in-

