296

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

259 U. S.

controversies which involve only questions of law and
those which involve issues essentially of fact or call for
the exercise of administrative discretion, it will be found
that the conflict described does not exist and that the decisions referred to are in harmony also with reason.
Affirmed.
FIDELITY & DEPOSIT COMPANY OF MARYLAND
v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 207. Argued April 21, 1922.-Decided May 29, 1922.
1. In fixing special bankers' taxes under the Act of June 13, 1898,
c. 448, ยง 2, 30 Stat. 448, the assessment is not confined to that
part of a banker's capital which is used in making loans or directly
in other banking transactions, but includes capital held or deposited as a reserve or invested in securities and which serves to give
credit to the banking business; and even where such securities
have been designated as assets of another kind of business and
physically segregated as such, they still may represent capital
employed in the banking business if they continue to give it credit.
P. 301.
2. But where a corporation is lawfully engaged in several distinct
lines of business, including banking, for each of which its capital
supplies necessary credit, the whole of the common capital cannot
be deemed capital of a single department; there should be' an
apportionment, and the extent to which the capital is used in
banking is a question of fact. P. 301.
3. In an action to recover taxes collected under this act, where the
plaintiff corporation claimed that the business of its banking department was conducted without the use of its capital but solely
on its depositors' money, and the Court of Claims, though requested, made no specific finding on that subject but other findings
respecting the segregation of the plaintiff's several kinds of business, investments, accounting, etc., from which the extent, if any,
to which the capital was used in banking could not be definitely
ascertained, held that the case -should be remanded for further
findings. P. 303.

FIDELITY & DEPOSIT CO. v. U. S.

297

Opinion of the Court.

296.

4. The limitation on actions in the Court of Claims on claims arising
under the Refunding Act of July 27, 1912, is six years. P. 303.
Sage v. United States, 250 U. S. 33.
55 Ct. Clms. 535, remanded for further findings, etc.

APPEAL from a judgment of the Court of Claims dismissing a petition for recovery of money paid as bankers'
special taxes under the Spanish War Revenue Act of
June 13, 1898.
Mr. George Sutherland, with whom Mr. Simon Lyon
and Mr. R. B. H. Lyon were on the briefs, for appellant.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Lovett, with whom
Mr. Solicitor General Beck, Mr. Carl A. Mapes and Mr.
B. H. Littleton were on the briefs, for the United States.
AIR.
court.

JUSTICE

BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the

This suit was brought in the Court of Claims by the
Fidelity and Deposit Company of Maryland to recover the
sum of $8,300, being the aggregate of amounts paid as
bankers' special taxes for the years 1898 to 1901, under
ยง 2 of the Spanish War Revenue Act of June 13, 1898,
c. 448, 30 Stat. 448. The company applied on November
22, 1913, for a refund, pursuant to the Act of July 27, 1912,
c. 256, 37 Stat. 240, alleging that the taxes had been assessed and collected on plaintiff's capital, but that in fact
none of it had been used or employed in the banking
business. The application was rejected by the Secretary
of the Treasury on April 19, 1917; and this suit was begun on July 25, 1918. The Government insisted that the

taxes were legally payable and also that the claim was
barred by the two-year statute of limitations. The court
dismissed the petition without opinion on authority of
Union Trust Co. v. United States, 55 Ct. Clms. 424; and
the case is here on appeal. A motion to remand for further findings of fact made here by appellant earlier in this
term was denied without prejudice.

298

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

By the Act of 1898 "bankers using or employing a
capital not exceeding the sum of twenty-five thousand dollars" were required to pay a special tax of $50; and for
every additional $1,000 the further amount of $2. The
act provided, among other things, that "in estimating
capital surplus shall be included"; and that "every person, firm, or company, and every incorporated or other
bank, having a place of business where credits are opened
by the deposit or collection of money or currency" subject to check, are to be deemed bankers. The Fidelity
Company was unquestionably a banker; but banking was
only one of four departments of its business. The others
were: (a) the surety business--that is, acting as surety
upon bonds conditioned for the faithful performance of
duties by principals; (b) the safe-deposit business--that
is, renting safe-deposit boxes for the safe keeping of
valuables; (c) the business of acting as trustee under
bond issues of other corporations. Whether the company
had used or employed its capital in the banking business,
within the meaning of the Act of.1898, is the main question presented.
The tax paid upon capital used or employed in banking
was assessed for the year 1898 upon $25,000; for 1899
upon $1,125,000, and for 1900 and 1901 upon $1,500,000.
The company claimed that it had *not used any of its
capital in banking during any of those years; and duly
requested the lower court to find as facts that: "The
entire business of the banking department was conducted
solely on its depositors' money. Neither the capital stock
nor surplus of plaintiff company was used or employed by
or in the banking department." The court made no specific finding on that subject; and it overruled the motion
*for a new trial, in the supplement to which the company
renewed its application for such findings, and also requested other specific findings in support of them. In
the motion made here to remand the case for further find-

FIDELITY & DEPOSIT CO. v. U. S.
296.

299

Opinion of the Court.

ings of fact the company requested that the Court of
Claims be directed to find from the evidence: (1)
Whether or not the banking department used only the
funds of its depositors in the conduct of the business of
that department; (2) whether or not any of the capital
or surplus of the company was actually used or employed
in the banking business, and, if so, what amount; and (3)
what was the net income of appellant's surety or bonding
department during each of the years in question. The
court had already found the annual net income of the
banking department; and it was asserted that in volume
and profits the surety business was far more important
than that of banking. If specific findings on these subjects are necessary to a proper determination of the case,
it should clearly be remanded for that purpose; since the
requests therefor were made seasonably in the lower court
and here.
The Government contends that the findings requested
are immaterial, because, as a matter of law, all of the capital (and surplus) was used or employed in banking. It
argues that the words used and employed are not to be
given the same meaning; that all the company's capital
was, as matter of law, employed in the banking business,
because all of it was, as matter of law, available for use
in the banking department; and that all of it must in fact
have enhanced the credit of the banking department, even
if none of it was actually used in banking and the income
of the banking department was derived directly from the
investment of its deposits. In other words, the contention
is that the act fixes the tax upon the banker "using or
employing" a capital; and that a firm, or company, being
a banker, can not escape, or reduce, the tax by showing
that it is engaged in several lines of business and that, in
fact, none, or only a part, of its capital was used specifically in its banking operations.
The findings of fact made by the Court of Claims were
these: The company's capital stock and the surplus were

300

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

each $1,000,000 in 1898. Both were increased from time
to time. In 1901 the former was $2,000,000, the latter
$2,550,000. All the money derived from the sale of the
capital stock and all the money of the surplus were permanently invested in real estate (including the office
building at Baltimore in which the company's business
was done) and in bonds, stocks and other securities. These
investments were referred to and were designated on its
books as "Capital Stock Investments." The securities
and valuable papers representing them were segregated in
a separate compartment of the company's vault in separate envelopes earmarked as capital stock. The financial
operations concerning them were kept in a separate set
of books distinct from the records of all other business
transacted by the company. The business of the banking
department was likewise kept separate, physically and as
a matter of accounting, from all other business of the
company. And the record of its operations was kept in
a distinct set of books. The money received from deposits
(which in 1901 exceeded $4,000,000) was invested in
stocks and bonds which were kept in the vault in separate
envelopes earmarked as such. The expenses of each department of the company's business were charged to the
separate account of that department payable out of its
earning. But physically expenses of the several departments may have been paid from a common fund. A part
of the income from each department was maintained as
cash and remained uninvested, part of the money being
carried by the respective departments as counter cash
and the balance being deposited in the company's various
depositaries. The money so deposited was not segregated
according to the source from which it came, though the
source of the items comprising its total amount was recorded in the respective books of each department. The
earnings of each department were carried to the undivided
profits account of the company at the end of each year.

FIDELITY & DEPOSIT CO. v. U. S.
296.

301

Opinion of the Court.

A portion of the office building was occupied by the banking department.
We cannot, on these findings of fact, say, as matter of
law, that all the capital of the Fidelity Company was used
in the banking business; nor can we say that at least the
amount upon which the tax was assessed (which in no
year was as much as one-half the company's capital) was
so used. Capital may be employed in banking although
it is not used strictly as working capital and none of it is
used in making loans or directly in other banking transactions. Money of a banker held in the vault or with
depositaries as a reserve is employed in banking as much
as money loaned to customers. Capital invested in securities may be employed in banking even if its sole use is
to give to the banker the credit which attracts depositors
or to make it possible for him otherwise to raise money
with which banking operations are conducted. And if
such securities serve to give credit, they will continue,
also in the legal sense, to be capital used in the banking
business, even if they are designated by the company as
assets of another department and physically segregated
as such. Compare Canal & Banking Co. v. New Orleans,
99 U. S. 97. If a company is engaged exclusively in banking, all of its capital, however invested, may reasonably
be held to be capital employed in banking without enquiry into the particular use to which it is put. Compare
Leather 2llanufacturers'NationalBank v. Treat, 116 Fed.
774; 128 Fed. 262. But where a company is lawfully engaged in several distinct businesses to the successful conduct of each of which credit is necessary, and the company's capital supplies such credit to each, the whole of
this common capital cannot be deemed capital of a single
department. Under such circumstances charges incident
to common capital are, in accounting practice, apportioned ordinarily among the several departments; and it
may not be assumed that Congress in laying this tax
intended to depart from the usage of business.

302

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

With the apportionment of charges incident to capital
used in common by several departments or branches of a
business, both courts and legislatures have become familiar. Such apportionment is made when the tangible
property of a corporation is scattered through different
States and its intangible property is treated, for purposes
of taxation, as distributed among the several States in
which the tangible property is located. Adams Express
Co. v. Ohio, 165 U. S. 194; 166 U. S. 185; Cudahy Packing Co. v. Minnesota, 246 U. S. 450; Wells, Fargo& Co. v.
Nevada, 248 U. S. 165. Statutes are common by which
foreign corporations are taxed upon the amount of their
capital employed within the taxing State. Would it be
contended that all the capital of the foreign corporation
was taxable in each such State, because all of its capital is
conceivably available for use in each and all is liable for
debts incurred in each? The Act of 1898 applies to individual bankers as well as to corporations. Surely Congress could not have intended to tax as capital employed
in banking the whole net property of an individual
banker. Yet the possession of large wealth would probably aid him in attracting depositors; and all his property would, if required, be available legally, and possibly
in fact, to meet requirements of his banking business.
That apportionment of the capital of a company among
its several departments can and should be made for purposes of taxation has been held by lower courts in cases
arising under ยง 3 of the Act 6f Congress October 22, 1914
c. 331, 38 Stat. 745, 750, which is substantially the same
as the provision here in question.' They recognize that
'Anderson v. Farmers'Loan & Trust Co., 241 Fed. 322; Title Guarantee & Trust Co. v. Miles, 258 Fed. 771; Real Estate Title Insurance & Trust Co. v. Lederer, 263 Fed. 667. Compare Central Trust
Co. v. Treat, 171 Fed. 301; Treat v. Farmers'Loan & Trust Co., 185
Fed. 760; Fidelity Trust Co. v. Miles, 258 Fed. 770; Germantown
Trust Co. v. Lederer, 263 Fed. 672.

FIDELITY & DEPOSIT CO. v. -U. S.
296.

303

Opinion of the Court.

the question whether the capital was used in the banking
business, and if so to what extent, is a question of fact.
On the facts found by the Court of Claims we are unable to say that no part of the capital was used in the
banking business or that there was used at least as much
thereof as was represented by the taxes assessed. It follows that in order to determine what sums, if any, are
recoverable, additional facts must be found. The request
for further findings made by appellant was appropriate;
and the case should be remanded with directions to make
such findings; unless, as the Government contends, the
claim sued on is barred by the two-year statute of limitations.
The contention is that the cause of action accrued on
May 22, 1914, which is six months after presentation of
the claim to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue; that
the two-year statute of limitations prescribed by ยง 3227
of the Revised Statutes applies; that the fact that the
claim was not rejected by the Treasury Department until
April, 1917, is immaterial; and that therefore the suit,
which was begun in July, 1918, is barred. This was the
view taken by the Court of Claims for reasons theretofore
given in Kahn v. United States, 55 Ct. Chins. 271. But,
as we held in Sage v.. United States, 250 U. S. 33, 39, the
six-year statute of limitations applies to cases arising
under the Act of July 27, 1912, c. 256. See also Henry v.
United States, 251 U. S. 393, 394.
Motion to remand granted with directions to make
new findings of fact as prayed and modify the judgment, if need be, to conform to this opinion.

