GT. NO. RY. v. MERCHANTS ELEV. CO.
276.

285

Syllabus.

Amendment affords protection in its guarantee of due
process of law. The difference in security of judicial over
administrative action has been adverted to by this court.
Compare United States v. Woo Jan, 245 U. S. 552, 556;
White v. Chin Fong, 253 U. S. 90, 93.
It follows that Gin Sang Get and Gin Sang Mo are
entitled to a judicial determination of their claims that
they are citizens of the United States; but it does not
follow that they should be discharged. The practice indicated in Chin Yow v. United States, supra, and approved in Kwock Jan Fat v. White, 253 U. S. 454, 465,
should be pursued. Therefore, as to Gin Sang Get and
Gin Sang Mo, the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed and the cause remanded to the District
Court for trial in that court of the question of citizenship
and for further proceedings in conformity with this
opinion. As to Ng Fung Ho and Ng Yuen Shew the
judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is affirmed.
Judgment affirmed in part and reversed in part.
Wrt of habeas corpus to issue as to Gin Sang Getand Ging Sang Mo.
GREAT NORTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY ET AL.
v. MERCHANTS ELEVATOR COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
MINNESOTA.

No. 202. Argued April 18, 1922.-Decided May 29, 1922.
When, in an actioi, by a shipper to recover charges exacted by a
carrier under an interstate tariff, the rights of the parties depend
entirely upon a legal construction of the tariff, involving no question of fact either in aid of the construction or in other respect,
and no question of administrative discretion, the courts have
jurisdiction without preliminary resort to the Interstate Commerce
Commission. P. 289. Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. American Tie &

286

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Petitioners.

259 U. S.

Timber Co., 234 U. S. 138; Loomis v. Lehigh Valley R. R. Co.,
240 U. S. 43, and other cases, distinguished.
147 Minn. 251, affirmed.

CERTIORARI to a judgment of the Supreme Court of
Minnesota affirming a judgment for the plaintiff in a suit
by the present respondent to recover overcharges from
the petitioner Railway Company.
Mr. John F. Finerty,with whom Mr. F. G. Dorety was
on the brief, for petitioners.
The decision below, in holding that a disputed question
of construction of an interstate tariff is within the jurisdiction of a court and does not require resort in the first
instance to the Interstate Commerce Commission, not
only directly contravenes the decision of this court in
Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. American Tie & Timber Co.,
234 U. S. 138, but is in contravention of, or inconsistent
with, the following decisions of this court: Texas &
Pacific Ry. Co. v. Abilene Cotton Oil Co., 204 U. S. 426;
Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co. v. Pitcairn Coal Co., 215
U. S. 481; Interstate Commerce Commission v. Chicago,
Rock Island & Pacific Ry. Co., 218 U. S. 88; Robinson v.
Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co., 222 U. S. 506; Interstate
Commerce Commission v. Union Pacific R. R. Co., 222
U. S. 541; Interstate Commerce Commission v. Louisville
& Nashville R. R. Co., 227 U. S. 88; United States v.
Pacific & Arctic Ry. & Nay. Co., 228 U. S. 87; Mitchell
Coal Co. v. PennsylvaniaR. R. Co., 230 U. S. 247; Morrisdale Coal Co. v. PennsylvaniaR. R. Co., 230 U. S. 304;
Boston & Maine R. R. v. Hooker, 233 U. S. 97; Phillips
Co. v. Grand Trunk Western Ry. Co., 236 U. S. 662;
Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v. Clark Coal Co., 238 U. S. 456;
Loomis v. Lehigh Valley R. R. Co., 240 U. S. 43; Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Ohio Valley Tie Co., 242
U. S. 288; Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. Solum, 247 U. S.
477; Director General v. Viscose Co., 254 U. S. 498; and
Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352.

GT. NO. RY. v. MERCHANTS ELEV. CO.
285.

287

Argument for Petitioners.

Nor can the decision of the court below be justified
under the decisions of this court in which, under the
peculiar circumstances of the respective cases, this court
has sustained the jurisdiction of a court over questions
-arising under the Interstate Commerce Act of a character
which this court has generally recognized to be primarily
within the jurisdiction of the Interstate Commerce Commission. Wight v. United States, 167 U. S. 512; Southem Ry. Co. v. Tilt, 206 U. S. 428; Interstate Commerce
Commission v. Illinois CentralR. R. Co., 215 U. S. 452;
Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Cook Brewing Co.,
223 U. S. 70; Galveston, H. & S. A. Ry. Co. v. Wallace,
223 U. S. 481; Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v. International
Coal Co., 230 U. S. 184; Florida East Coast Ry. Co. v.
United States, 234 U. S. 167; Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v.
PuritanCoal Co., 237 U. S. 121; EasternRy. Co. v. Littlefield, 237 U. S. 140; Illinois Central R. R. Co. v. Mulberry Hill Coal Co., 238 U. S. 275; Philadelphia& Reading Ry. Co. v. United States, 240 U. S. 334; Pennsylvania
R. R. Co. v. Jacoby & Co., 242 U. S. 89; Pennsylvania
R. R. Co. v. Sonman Coal Co., 242 U. S. 120; Swift & Co.
v. Hocking Valley Ry. Co., 243 U. S. 281; Pennsylvania
R. R. Co. v. Kittanning Iron Co., 253 U. S. 319; St. Louis,
Iron Mountain & Southern Ry. Co. v. Hasty & Sons, 255
U. S.252; Central R. R. Co. v. United States, 257 U. S.
247; Schaff v. Famechon Co., 258 U. S. 76.
The only two decisions of state or subordinate federal
courts which have followed and applied the decision in the
American Tie & Timber Case, supra, are: Cheney v.
Boston & Maine R. R., 227 Mass. 336; and Poor v. Western Union Telegraph Co., 196 Mo. App. 557.
The following decisions of state and subordinate federal courts with reference to the jurisdiction of the Interstate Commerce Commission and of the courts, respectively, over questions arising under the Interstate Commerce Act, were either rendered before the decision in

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

the American Tie & Timber Case, or are distinguishable
from that case: Hite v. Central R. R. of N. J., 171 Fed.
370; National Pole Co. v. C. & N. W. Ry. Co., 211 Fed.
65; Gimble Bros., Inc. v. Barrett,215 Fed. 1004; Chicago,
Burlington & Quincy Ry. Co. v. Feintuch, 191 Fed. 482;
Kansas City Southern Ry. Co. v. Tonn, 102 Ark. 20;
Hardaway v. Southern Ry. Co., 90 S. Car. 475; Western
& Atlantic R. R. Co. v. White Provision Co., 142 Ga. 246;
Southern Pacific Co. v. Frye & Bruhn, Inc., 82 Wash. 9;
St. Louis, San Francisco & Texas Ry. Co. v. Roff Oil Co.,
61 Tex. Civ. App. 190; Laing-HarrisCoal Co. v. St. Louis
& San FranciscoR. R. Co., 15 1. C. C. 37.
Mr. Harold G. Simpson for respondent.
MR. JusTIcE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the
court.
This action was brought by the Merchants Elevator
Company in a state court of Minnesota against the Great
Northern Railway Company and the Director General to
recover $80 alleged to have been exacted in violation of
the carrier's tariff. That sum had been demanded by the
carrier, under Rule 10 of its tariff, as a reconsignment
charge, at the rate of $5 a car, for sixteen cars of corn
shipped from points in Iowa and Nebraska to Willmar,
Minnesota, and after inspection there rebilled to Anoka, a
station beyond. The tariff rate from the points of origin
via Willmar to Anoka was the same as to Willmar. Willmar had been named as destination in the original bill of
lading, only because it is the place at which grain coming
into the State by this route is inspected and graded under
the laws of Minnesota and of the United States; and the
carrier knew, or should have known, that fact. Immediately after inspection disposition orders were given and
the original bills of lading were surrendered in exchange
for billing to Anoka. Rule 10 read:

GT. NO. RY. v. MERCHANTS ELEV. CO.
285.

289

Opinion of the Court.

"Diversion or reconsignment to points outside switching limits before placement: If a car is diverted, reconsigned or reforwarded on orders placed with the local
freight agent or other designated officer after arrival of
car at original destination, but before placement for unloading, . . . a charge of $5.00 per car will be made if car
is diverted, reconsigned or reforwarded to a point outside
of switching limits of original destination."
The shipper contended that the case was within the exception known as Exception (a), as amended by Supplement One, which provided that rules (including Rule 10)
shall not apply to:
"(a) Grain, seed (field), seed (grass), hay or straw, carloads, held in cars on track for inspection and disposition
orders incident thereto at billed destination or at point intermediate thereto."
Whether the charge was payable depended solely upon
a question of construction; that is, whether the body of
the rule or the exception to it applied. On this question
there was room for reasonable difference of opinion. The
carrier, relying particularly upon Texas & Pacific Ry. Co.
v. American Tie & Timber Co., 234 U. S. 138, and Loomis
v. Lehigh Valley R. R. Co., 240 U. S. 43, claimed seasonably that until tho true construction of the tariff had been
determined by the Interstate Commerce Commission, the
trial court was without jurisdiction. That court overruled the objection; construed the exception to mean that
cars of grain are exempted from Rule 10 if held on track
at billed destination for inspection and for "disposition
orders" incident to such inspection; held that the disposition order may be an order to make disposition by way of
reconsignment to another destination and that forwarding
to Anoka was such disposition; and entered judgment for
the shipper. That judgment was affirmed by the Supreme
Court of the State on the authority of Reliance Elevator
Co. v. Chicago,Milwaukee & St. Paul Ry. Co., 139 Minn.

290

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

69. The case is here on writ of certiorari, 255 U. S. 567.
The tariff containing the rule under which the $5 charge
was made was the only governing tariff. It had been duly
filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission. The
validity of the tariff, including the rule and exception, was
admitted. And there was no dispute concerning the facts.
The question argued before us is not whether the state
courts erred in construing or applying the tariff, but
whether any court had jurisdiction of the controversy, in
view of the fact that the Infterstate Commerce Commission
had not passed upon the disputed question of construction.
The contention that courts are without jurisdiction of
cases involving a disputed question of construction of an
interstate tariff, unless there has been a preliminary resort
to the Commission for its decision, rests, in the main, upon
the following argument. The purpose of the Act to Regulate Commerce is to secure and preserve uniformity.
Hence, the carrier is required to file tariffs establishing
uniform rates and charges, and is prohibited from exacting
or accepting any payment not set forth in the tariff. Uniformity is impossible, if the several courts, state or federal,
are permitted, in case of disputed construction, to determine what the rate or charge is which the tariff prescribes.
To ensure uniformity the true construction must, in case
of dispute, be determined by the Commission.
This argument is unsound. It is true that uniformity
is the paramount purpose of the Commerce Act. But it
is not true that uniformity in construction of a tariff can
be attained only through a preliminary resort to the Commission to settle the construction in dispute. Every question of the construction of a tariff is deemed a question of
law; and where the question concerns an interstate tariff
it is one of federal law. If the parties properly preserve
their rights, a construction given by any court, whether it
be federal or state, may ultimately be reviewed by this
court either on writ of error or on writ of certiorari; and

GT. NO. RY. v. MERCHANTS ELEV. CO. 291
285.

Opinion of the Court.

thereby uniformity in construction may be secured.
Hence, the attainment of uniformity does not require that
in every case where the construction of a tariff is in dispute, there shall be a preliminary resort to the Commission.
Whenever a rate, rule or practice is attacked as unreasonable or as unjustly discriminatory, there must be preliminary resort to the Commission. Sometimes this is required because the function being exercised is in its nature
administrative in contradistinction to judicial. But ordinarily the determining factor is not the character of the function, but the character of the controverted question and the
nature of the enquiry necessary for its solution. To determine what rate, rule or practice shall be deemed reasonable
for the future is a legislative or administrative function. To
determine whether a shipper has in the past been wronged
by the exaction of an unreasonable or discriminatory rate
is a judicial function. Preliminary resort to the Commission is required alike in the two classes of cases. It is required because the enquiry is essentially one of fact and
of discretion in technical matters; and uniformity can be
secured only if its determination is left to the Commission.
Moreover, that determination is reached ordinarily upon
voluminous and conflicting evidence, for the adequate appreciation of which acquaintance-with many intricate facts
of transportation is indispensable; and such acquaintance
is commonly to be found only in a body of experts. But
what construction shall be given to a railroad tariff presents ordinarily a question of law which does not differ in
character from those presented when the construction of
any other document is in dispute.
When the words of a written instrument are used in
their ordinary meaning, their construction presents a question solely of law. But words are used sometimes in a
peculiar meaning. Then extrinsic evidence may be neces-

292

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

sary to determine the meaning of words appearing in the
document. This is true where technical words or phrases
not commonly understood are employed. Or extrinsic
evidence may be necessary to establish a usage of trade or
locality which attaches provisions not expressed in the
language of the instrument. Where such a situation
arises, and the peculiar meaning of words, or the existence
of a usage, is proved by evidence, the function of construction is necessarily preceded by the determination of the
matter of fact. Where the controversy over the writing
arises in a case which is being tried before a jury, the decision of the question of fact is left to the jury, with instructions from the court as to how the document shall be
construed, if the jury finds that the alleged peculiar meaning or usage is established.' But where the document to
be construed is a tariff of an interstate carrier, and before
it can be construed it is necessary to determine upon evidence the peculiar meaning of words or the existence of
incidents alleged to be attached by usage to the transaction, the preliminary determination must be made by the
Commission; and not until this determination has been
made, can a court take jurisdiction of the controversy.
If this were not so, that uniformity which it is the purpose
of the Commerce Act to secure could not be attained. For
the effect to be given the tariff might depend, not upon
construction of the language-a question of law-but
upon whether or not a particular judge or jury had found,
as a fact, that the words of the document were used in the
peculiar sense attributed to them or that a particular usage
existed.
Goddard v. Foster, 17 Wall. 123, 142; Hutchison v. Bowler, 5
M. & W. 535, 542; Tubbs v. Mechanics' Insurance Co., 131 Ia. 217;

Aetna Indemnity Co. v. Waters, 110 Md. 673; Tower Co. v. Southern
Pacific Co., 184 Mass. 472. See Ogden v. Parsons,23 How. 167, 170;'
Fullerv. MetropolitanLife Insurance Co., 70 Conn. 647, 677; Thayer,
Preliminary Treatise on Evidence, 203-207, 215, 259.

GT. NO. RY. v. MERCHANTS ELEV. CO. 293
285.

Opinion of the Court.

It may happen that there is a dispute concerning the
meaning of a tariff which does not involve, properly
speaking, any question of construction. The dispute
may be merely whether words in the tariff were used in
their ordinary meaning, or in a peculiar meaning. This
was the situation in the American Tie & Timber Co. Case,
supra. The legal issue was whether the carrier did or did
not have in effect a rate covering oak ties. The only matter really in issue was whether the word "lumber" which
was in the tariff, had been used in a peculiar sense. The
trial judge-charged the jury: "If you believe from the
evidence that oak railway cross ties are lumber within the
meaning and usage of the lumber and railroad business,
then you are charged the defendant had in effect a rate applying on the ties offered for shipment." This question was
obviously not one of construction; and there is not to be
found in the opinion of this court, or in the proceedings in
either of the lower courts, a suggestion that the case involved any disputed question of construction. The only
real question in the case was one of fact; and upon this
question of fact "the views of men engaged in the lumber
and railroad business as developed in the testimony " were
in "irreconcilable conflict," p. 146. As that question, unlike one of construction, could not be settled ultimately
by this court, preliminary resort to the Commission was
necessary to ensure uniformity. The situation in Loomis
v. Lehigh Valley R. R. Co., supra,was similar. There the
question to be decided did not require the consideration of
voluminous conflicting evidence; but it involved the exer-

cise of administrative judgment. The carrier had been
requested by a shipper of grain, fruits and vegetables to
supply cars for loading. In order to load ordinary box
cars to the minimum capacity on which the freight rates
are based and to the maximum to which the shipper is entitled, it is necessary that they should be equipped with
grain doors or transverse bulkheads, so that they may

294

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

safely contain the load and enable unloading to be done
without waste and inconvenience. Those sent lacked the
inside doors and bulkheads. The carrier having refused
to furnish these, the shipper was obliged to do so and
sought reimbursement. The tariff was silent on the subject. The controverted question was not how the tariff
should be construed, but what character' of equipment
should be deemed reasonable. To determine this enquiry
the court held that preliminary resort to the Commission
must be had, becapsf " an adequate consideration of the
โข . . controversy would require acquaintance with many
intricate facts of transportation and a consequent appreciation of the practical effect of any attempt to define
services covered by a carrier's published tariffs, or character of equipment which it must provide, or allowances
which it may make to shippers for instrumentalities supplied and services rendered."
In the case at bar the situation is entirely different from
that presented in the American Tie & Timber Co. Case,
or in the Loomis Case. Here no fact, evidential or ultimate, is in controversy; and there is no occasion for the
exercise of administrative discretion. The task to be performed is to determine the meaning of words of the tariff
which were used in their ordinary sense and to apply that
meaning to the undisputed facts. That operation was
solely one of construction; and preliminary resort to the
Commission was, therefore, unnecessary. The petition
for certiorari was asked for on the ground that the decision
of the Supreme Court of Minnesota in this case was in
conflict with the above decisions of this court and also
that the decisions in several state courts and in the lower
federal courts were in serious conflict on the question
involved. In the brief and argument on the merits, it
was also asserted that some recent decisions of this court
are in conflict with the rule declared and applied in the
American Tie & Timber Co. Case, supra, and the Loomis

GT. NO. RY. v. MERCHANTS ELEV. CO. 295
285.

Opinion of the Court.

Case, supra. If in examining the cases referred to 1 there
is borne in mind the distinction above discussed between
'In the following cases in which the jurisdiction of the court was
sustained without preliminary resort to the Commission, the question
involved was solely one of construction of a tariff, or otherwise a
question of law, and not one of administrative discretion. (1) Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Cook Brewing Co., 223 U. S. 70, 84;
Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v. International Coal Co., 230 U. S. 184, 196;
Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v. Puritan Coal Co., 237 U. S. 121, 134;
Eastern Ry. Co. v. Littlefield, 237 U. S. 140; Illinois Central R. R.
Co. v. Mulberry Hill Coal Co., 238 U. S. 275; Pennsylvania R. R.
Co. v. Sonman Coal Co., 242 U. S. 120; Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v.
Kittanning Iron & Steel Mfg. Co., 253 U. S. 319. See also Swift &
Co. v. Hocking Valley Ry. Co., 243 U. S. 281; St. Louis, Iron Mountain & Southern Ry. Co. v. Hasty & Sons, 255 U. S. 252, 256. (2)
Hite v. Central R. R. of N. J., 171 Fed. 370, 372; Gimble Bros., Inc.
v. Barrett, 215 Fed. 1004; 218 Fed. 880; 226 Fed. 623; National
Elevator Co. v. Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Ry. Co., 246 Fed.
588; Francesconi& Co. v. Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co., 274 Fed. 687,
691. Compare Empire Refineries, Inc. v. Guaranty Trust Co., 271
Fed. 668. (3) Kansas City Southern Ry. Co. v. Tonn, 102 Ark. 20,
26; Western & Atlantic R. R. Co. v. White Provision Co., 142 Ga.
246; Gustafsonv. Michigan CentralR. R. Co., 296 Ill. 41; Wolverine
Brass Works v. Southern Pacific Co., 187 Mich. 393, 396; Reliance
Elevator Co. v. Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Ry. Co., 139 Minn.
69; St. Louis, San Francisco & Texas Ry. Co. v. Roff Oil & Cotton
Co., 61 Tex. Civ. App. 190, 192; Southern Pacific Co. v. Frye &
Bruhn, Inc., 82 Wash. 9. Compare Hardaway v. Southern Ry. Co.,
90 S. Car. 475. See contra Cheney v. Boston & Maine R. R., 227
Mass. 336. Compare Poor v. Western Union Telegraph Co., 196
Mo. App. 557, 564.
In the following cases where the court refused to take jurisdiction
because there had not been preliminary resort to the Commission, the
question presented either was one of fact or called for the exercise of
administrative discretion. Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Abilene
Cotton Oil Co., 204 U. S. 426; Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co. v. Pitcairn
Coal Co., 215 U. S. 481; Mitchell Coal Co. v. Pennsylvania R. R.
Co., 230 U. S. 247; Morrisdale Coal Co. v. Pennsylvania R. R. Co.,
230 U. S. 304; Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. Solum, 247 U. S. 477,
483; DirectorGeneral v. Viscose Co., 254 U. S. 498. See also United
States v. Pacific & Arctic Ry. & Nay. Co., 228 U. S. 87.

296

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

259 U. S.

controversies which involve only questions of law and
those which involve issues essentially of fact or call for
the exercise of administrative discretion, it will be found
that the conflict described does not exist and that the decisions referred to are in harmony also with reason.
Affirmed.
FIDELITY & DEPOSIT COMPANY OF MARYLAND
v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 207. Argued April 21, 1922.-Decided May 29, 1922.
1. In fixing special bankers' taxes under the Act of June 13, 1898,
c. 448, ยง 2, 30 Stat. 448, the assessment is not confined to that
part of a banker's capital which is used in making loans or directly
in other banking transactions, but includes capital held or deposited as a reserve or invested in securities and which serves to give
credit to the banking business; and even where such securities
have been designated as assets of another kind of business and
physically segregated as such, they still may represent capital
employed in the banking business if they continue to give it credit.
P. 301.
2. But where a corporation is lawfully engaged in several distinct
lines of business, including banking, for each of which its capital
supplies necessary credit, the whole of the common capital cannot
be deemed capital of a single department; there should be' an
apportionment, and the extent to which the capital is used in
banking is a question of fact. P. 301.
3. In an action to recover taxes collected under this act, where the
plaintiff corporation claimed that the business of its banking department was conducted without the use of its capital but solely
on its depositors' money, and the Court of Claims, though requested, made no specific finding on that subject but other findings
respecting the segregation of the plaintiff's several kinds of business, investments, accounting, etc., from which the extent, if any,
to which the capital was used in banking could not be definitely
ascertained, held that the case -should be remanded for further
findings. P. 303.

