200

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Statement of the Case.

259 U. S.

that he would, ยง 2, he would have been bound to agree
to the Company's choice. Indeed in the first case he did
agree to it, and did not attempt to revoke his decision
until more than two years later on the ground of subsequently discovered facts. It is established in the parallel
cases of Payne v. Central PacificRy. Co., 255 U. S. 228;
Payne v. New Mexico, 255 U. S. 367, and Wyoming v.
United States, 255 U. S. 489, 496, that the validity of the
selection must be determined according to the conditions
existing at the time when it was made. These decisions
were later than that in the Court below and show without
the need of further argument that the decrees must be
reversed.
Decrees reversed.
FEDERAL BASEBALL CLUB OF BALTIMORE, INC.

v. NATIONAL LEAGUE OF PROFESSIONAL
BASEBALL CLUBS, ET AL.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUIMBIA.
No. 204. Argued April 19, 1922.-Decided May 29, 1922.
1. The business of providing public baseball games for profit between
clubs of professional baseball players in a league and between clubs
of rival leagues, although necessarily involving the constantly repeated traveling of the players from one State to another, provided
for, controlled and disciplined by the organizations employing them,
is not interstate commerce. P. 208.
2. Held that an action for triple damages under the Anti-Trust Acts
could not be maintained, by a baseball club against baseball leagues
and their constituent clubs, joined with individuals, for an alleged
conspiracy to monopolize the baseball business resulting injuriously
to the plaintiff. P. 209.
269 Fed. 681; 50 App. D. C. 165, affirmed.

ERROR to a judgment of the Court of Appeals of the
District of Columbia reversing a judgment for triple
damages uilder the Anti-Trust Acts recovered by the

FEDERAL CLUB v. NATIONAL LEAGUE. 201
200.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

plaintiff in error in the Supreme Court of the District and
directing that judgment be entered for the defendants.
Mr. Charles A. Douglas and Mr. William L. Marbury,
with whom Mr. L. Edwin Goldman and Mr. William L.
Rawls were on the briefs, for plaintiff in error.
Defendants are voluntary associations and corporations
engaged upon a vast scale, involving the investment of
millions of dollars, in the business of providing, by the
transportation from State to State of baseball teams and
their necessary attendants and equipment, exhibitions of
professional baseball. The court is not concerned with
whether the mere playing of baseball, that is the act of
the individual player, upon a baseball field in a particular
city, is by itself interstate commerce. That act, it is true,
is related to the business of the defendants, but it can no
more be said to be the business than can any other single
act in any other business forming a part of interstate
commerce.
The question with which the court is here concerned
is whether the business in which the defendants were
engaged when the wrongs complained of occurred, taken
as an entirety, was interstate commerce, or more accurately, whether the monopoly which they had established
or attempted to establish was a monopoly of any part of
interstate commerce.
At the foundation of the business of one of these
leagues-in its primary conception-is a circuit embracing seven different States. No single club in that circuit
could operate without the other members of the circuit,
and accordingly in the very beginning of its business
the matter of interstate relationship is not only important but predominant and indispensable.
Each game symbolizes a contest of skill between the
two cities that have been brought together by means of
interstate communication and travel. Each team of each

202

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

259 U. S.

club in the league carries with it, and it is essential to the
profit of the enterprise that it should carry with it, its
representative character; it symbolizes the great city that
it represents to those assembled to witness the contest.
In addition to this representative city and state aspect,
there is also the element of intersectional rivalry. Experience has shown that the game is most largely patronized when clubs are so located as to provide a contest for
supremacy between the Eastern and Western sections of
the country.
It is necessary to distinguish between baseball as a
sport, that is, where it is played merely as a means of
physical exercise and diversion, and this business of providing exhibitions of professional baseball. The business
of Organized Baseball represents and has represented for
many years, an investment of colossal wealth. Defendants who dominate Organized Baseball are not engaged in
a sport. They are engaged in a money-making business
enterprise in which all of the features of any large commercial undertaking are to be found. When the teams
of the National or American Leagues or of any other
league are sent around the circuit of the league, they go
at the direction of employers whose business it is to send
them, and whose profits are made as a result of that business operation.
When the profit-making aspect of the business is examined, it will be found that the interstate element is
still further magnified. The vast investment of capital
which has been made in it is required, among other
things, in order to provide a place at which the teams
in the league may play their contests. Each club has
a ball park, with stands erected upon them, sometimes,
as in the case of a major league club, costing several millions of dollars. Every club in the league earns its profit
not only by the drawing capacity of its team at home, but
also by that of the teams of the clubs which its team

FEDERAL CLUB v. NATIONAL LEAGUE. 203
200.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

visits in the various cities in the league. The gate receipts in all of the cities in which the clubs are located
are divided according to a definite proportion, fixed by
agreement between the club of the city in which the game
is played and the club employing the visiting team.
In no other business that can now be recalled is there
such a close interrelationship and interdependence between persons in one State and persons in another. The
personality, so to speak, of each club in a league is actually projected over state lines and becomes mingled with
that of the clubs in all the other States. The continuous
interstate activity of each is essential to all the others.
The clubs of each league constitute a business unit embracing territorially a number of different States. While
each club has, of course, a local legal habitat, yet from
a practical business standpoint it is primarily an ambulatory organization.
It is difficult to perceive the relevancy of any discussion
about an article of commerce in this case. Commerce
may be carried on in one of its forms by traffic in articles
of merchandise, but there are countless forms in which it
may be carried on without traffic in such articles. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 189.
It is also difficult to discern the relevancy of the contention that personal effort is not an article of commerce.
Personal effort, while it may not be an article of commerce, is often commerce itself, but we are not concerned
with any such question here. It may be passed by saying
that it has been adjudicated by this court in the Hoke
Case, 227 U. S. 308, that interstate commerce may be
created by the mere act of a person in allowing himself
to be transported from one State to another, without any
personal effort; and further that it is very difficult to
see how International Textbook Co. v. Pigg, 217 U. S.
91, could have been decided as it was, except upon the

204

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

259 U. S.

principle that the mere exchange of instruction and information, which is about as purely a matter of personal
effort as anything that can be imagined, may be a subject
of interstate commerce.
If transactions in interstate commerce were to be
judged by their isolated ultimate results, as the defendants seek to separate the act of a player in throwing a
ball upon a ball field from all the steps which are taken
to bring the ball player in the due course of business from
other States, of course their interstate character could be
plausibly argued away. By such a process of reasoning
the American Tobacco Company, for instance, might
have removed its gigantic monopoly from the operation
of the Sherman Act. See lUnited States v. American
Tobacco Co., 221 U. S. 106, 184; Standard Oil Co. v.
United States, 221 U. S. 1, 68; Swift & Co. v. United
States, 196 U. S. 375.
In the business now under consideration throughout
the playing season the ball teams, their attendants and
paraphernalia, are in constant revolution around a preestablished circuit. Their movement is only interrupted
to the extent of permitting exhibitions of baseball to be
given in the various cities. When exhibitions in one city
are completed the clubs resume, according to the agreement made, and plan of business long established, their
course of travel on to another city, and thus on and on
until the schedule of exhibitions is completed. The interruption in interstate movement is nothing like as great
as that in the Swift Case, supra. The constant movement of the teams from State to State during a period
of over five months each year, is under a single direction
and control and in pursuance of one object.
See Champion v. Ames, 188 U. S. 321; PensacolaTelegraph Co. v. Western Union Telegraph Co., 96 U. S. 1;
United States v. Patten,226 U. S. 525; Loewe v. Lawlor,
208 U. S. 274; Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Foster,

FEDERAL CLUB v. NATIONAL LEAGUE.
200.

205

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

247 U. S. 105. See particularly Marienelli v. United
Booking Offices, 227 Fed. 165, where the question was
presented as to whether a company engaged in booking
vaudeville performers for a circuit embracing theatres
in cities in different States was engaged in interstate commerce within the Sherman Act. Also, Motion Picture
Patents Co. v. Universal Film Mfg. Co., 235 Fed. 401.
It is common knowledge that baseball is the preeminent
American sport. Millions of people follow the daily reports of the results of the games in the press, and in the
large cities gather in the afternoons around the newspaper offices to See the bulletin reports of the scores.
Not only so, but vast numbers of people travel from one
city to another for the purpose of witnessing the games.
Telegraph facilities are installed at all the ball parks in
the Major Leagues, and in those of the more important
Minor Leagues, where reports of the games are sent out
and are received throughout the country.
Each league contracts for a uniform type of baseball,
which is used in tremendous numbers and shipped by the
manufacturer from time to time as they are needed by
the various clubs.
These incidents, while in themselves not determinative
of the question of whether or not the business is interstate in character, yet, when considered in connection
with its main features, emphasize the truth of what has
before been said, that there is scarcely any business which
can be named in which the element of interstate commerce is as predominant as that in which defendants
are engaged.
The agreement and combination entered into and
maintained by defendants whereby the entire business
in the United States of providing exhibitions of professional baseball was brought under the control of defendants and their confederates in Organized Baseball,
amounted in law to a conspiracy in restraint of trade

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

259 U. S.

among the several States and a monopoly or an attempt
to monopolize a part of commerce among the several
States within the meaning of the Sherman Act.
There is no testimony in this case legally sufficient to
show that the plaintiff has.waived its right to recover
damages under the Sherman Act.
Mr. George Wharton Pepper,with whom Mr. Benjamin
S. Minor and Mr. Samuel M. Clement, Jr., were on the
brief, for defendants in error.
Organized Baseball is not interstate commerce and does
not constitute an attempt to monopolize within the
Sherman Act.
Personal effort, not related to production, is not a subject of commerce; and the attempt to secure all the skilled
service needed for professional baseball contests is not
an attempt to monopolize commerce or any part of it.
Clayton Act, ยง 6; Paul v. Virginia, 8 Wall. 168; Hooper
v. California, 155 U. S. 648; Metropolitan Opera Co. v.
Hammerstein, 147 N. Y. S. 532; In re Duff, 4 Fed. 519;
In re Oriental Society, 104 Fed. 975; People v. Klaw, 106
N. Y. S.341. The Department of Justice has ruled that
the business conducted by Organized Baseball was not in
violation of the Sherman Act; and also that the business
of presenting theatrical entertainments is not commerce.
Distinguishing: International Textbook Co. v. Pigg, 217
U. S. 91; and Marienelli v. United Booking Offices, 227
Fed. 165. The only case in which the question whether
Organized Baseball is within the Sherman Act has been
directly passed upon is that of American Baseball Club
of Chicago v. Chase, 149 N. Y. S. 6, in which the court
answered the question in the negative.
Congress has not imposed a penalty upon the transportation of players for baseball purposes, and therefore
Hoke v. United States, 227 U. S. 308, is not in point.
While Congress may regulate the movement of persons in

FEDERAL CLUB v. NATIONAL LEAGUE.
200.

207

Opinion of the Court.

interstate commerce, when it has not regulated movement as such, the doing of an act essentially local is not
converted into an interstate act merely because people
came from another State to do it.
MR. JusTicn HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit for threefold damages brought by the
plaintiff in error under the Anti-Trust Acts of July 2, 1890,
c. 647, ยง 7, 26 Stat. 209, 210, and of October 15, 1914, c.
323, ยง 4, 38 Stat. 730, 731. The defendants are The
National League of Professional Base Ball Clubs and The
.American League of Professional Base Ball Clubs, unincorporated associations, composed respectively of groups
of eight incorporated base ball clubs, joined as defendants;
the presidents of the two Leagues and a third person, constitutingwhat is known as the National Commission, having considerable powers in carrying out an agreement between the two Leagues; and three other persons having
powers in thd Federal League of Professional Base Ball
Clubs, the relation of which to this case will be explained.
It is alleged that these defendants conspired to monopolize
the base ball business, the means adopted being set forth
with a detail which, in the view that we take, it is unnecessary to repeat.
The plaintiff is a base ball club incorporated in Maryland, and with seven other corporations was a member of
the Federal League of Professional Base Ball Clubs, a
corporation under the laws of Indiana, that attempted to
compete with the combined defendants. It alleges that
the defendants destroyed the Federal League by buying
up some of the constituent clubs and in one way or another inducing all those clubs except the plaintiff to leave
their League, and that the three persons connected with
the Federal League and named as defendants, one of them
being the President of the League, took part in the conspiracy. Great damage to the plaintiff is alleged. The

208

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

plaintiff obtained a verdict for $80,000 in the Supreme
Court and a judgment for treble the amount was entered,
but the Court of Appeals, after an elaborate discussion,
held that the defendants were not within the Sherman
Act. The appellee, the plaintiff, elected to stand on the
record in order to bring the case to this Court at once, and
thereupon judgment was ordered for the defendants. 50
App. D. C. 165; 269 Fed. 681, 688. It is not argued that
the plaintiff waived any rights by its course. Thomsen v.
Cayser, 243 U. S. 66.
The decision of the Court of Appeals went to the root
of the case and if correct makes it unnecessary to consider other serious difficulties in the way of the plaintiff's
recovery. A summary statement of the nature of the
business involved will be enough to present the point.
The clubs composing the Leagues are in different cities
and for the most part in different States. The end of the
elaborate organizations and sub-organizations that are described in the pleadings and evidence is that these clubs
shall play against one another in public exhibitions for
money, one or the other club crossing a state line in order
to make the meeting possible. When as the result of these
contests one club has won the pennant of its League
and another club has won the pennant of the other League,
there is a final competition for the world's championship
between these two. Of course the scheme requires constantly repeated travelling on the part of the clubs, which
is provided for, controlled and disciplined by the organizations, and this it is said means commerce among the
States. But we are of opinion that the Court of Appeals
was right.
The business is giving exhibitions of base ball, which
are purely state affairs. It is true that, in order to attain
for these exhibitions the great popularity that they have
achieved, competitions must be arranged between clubs
from different cities and States. But the fact that in or-

MUTUAL LIFE INS. CO. v. LIEBING.
200.

209

Syllabus.

der to give the exhibitions the Leagues must induce free
persons to cross state lines and must arrange and pay for
their doing so is not enough to change the character of
the business. According to the distinction insisted upon
in Hooper v. California,155 U. S. 648, 655, the transport
is a mere incident, not the essential thing. That to which
it is incident, the exhibition, although made for money
would not be called trade or commerce in the commonly
accepted use of those words. As it is put by the defendants, personal effort, not related to production, is not a subject of commerce. That which in its consummation is not
commerce does not become commerce among the States
because the transportation that we have mentioned takes
place. To repeat the illustrations given by the Court
below, a firm of lawyers sending out a member to argue a
case, or the Chautauqua lecture bureau sending out lecturers, does not engage in such commerce because the lawyer
or lecturer goes to another State.
If we are right the plaintiff's business is to be described
in the same way and the restrictions by contract that prevented the plaintiff from getting players to break their
bargains and the other conduct charged against the defendants were not an interference with commerce among
the States.
Judgment affirmed.
MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY OF NEW
YORK v. LIEBING.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.

No. 215. Argued April 21, 24, 1922.-Decided May 29, 1922.
1. A law of the State where a life insurance policy was executed,
directing temporary continuance of the full insurance by application of a proportion of the net value in case of default in payment
of premiums, controls the parties' later loan agreement, made in the

