OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

259 U. S.

and we think the administrator is a competent party to
assert the right of the estate, whatever it may be, to rents
or royalties derived from the land during Redeagle's lifetime. If Ewert has succeeded to the rights of the heirs he
will, of course, receive their distributive shares.
It is alleged in the petition, and not denied, that Ewert
encumbered the lands involved with a mortgage, and
against this indemnification is prayed for, which should be
granted if it continues a subsisting lien.
It results that the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
must be reversed and the cause remanded to the District
Court with directions to enter a decree: canceling the
deeds, of Redeagle to Smith of March 10, 1909, of Smith to
Ewert, dated April 23, 1910, and of Redeagle to Ewert,
dated July 5, 1918; providing for an accounting for rents
and profits and royalties, and for indemnification from any
subsisting lien of any mortgage by Ewert upon the land;
and for further proceedings in conformity with this
opinion.
Reversed and remanded.
RAINIER BREWING COMPANY v. GREAT NORTHERN PACIFIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 267. Argued April 21, 1922.-Decided May 15, 1922.
1. Under Criminal Code, § 240, and the Webb-Kenyon Act, c. 90,
37 Stat. 699, a railroad company could carry intoxicating liquor
into a State only when labeled as required by § 240 and by the
state law. P. 152.
2 Under the law of Washington (2 Remington's Codes & Stats.,
1915, §§ 6262-1 to 6262-22,) which allowed intoxicating liquors to
be brought in only in packages each containing a strictly limited
quantity and bearing a permit from the State showing origin and
destination of the shipment and the name of the shipper, who must
also be the ultimate consignee, and which made it the carrier's

RAINIER CO. v. GREAT NORTHERN CO.
150.

151

Opinion of the Court.

duty to cancel the permit before delivery, a railroad company was
not allowed to transport such packages in carload lots billed to a
transfer company at the place of destination and deliver them to
the transfer company for distribution and delivery there to the
several permittees. P. 154.
270 Fed. 94, affirmed.

a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals
affirming a judgment rendered by the District Court for
the steamship company in its action to recover from
plaintiff in error, as consignor, the difference between the
carload and less than carload rates on a shipment of many
separate packages of beer, paid by the steamship company to the Northern Pacific Railway Company, which,
as connecting carrier, transported the packages into the
State of Washington and delivered them to the respective
consignees.
ERROR to

Mr. S. J. Wettrick for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Charles A. Hart,with whom Mr. Charles H. Carey
and Mr. James B. Kerr were on the brief, for defendant
in error.
MRi. JUSTICE CLAPiE delivered the opinion of the court.
In 1917 the plaintiff in error shipped two carloads of
beer from San Francisco, consigned to the American
Transfer Company at Seattle, Washington, which contained 2,565 separate packages or cases addressed to sepa-

rate individuals. The shipment moved by water to Flavel, Oregon, thence by a line of railway to Portland, Oregon, and thence by the Northern Pacific Railway to
Seattle. It was billed in carload lots and was given a
through carload rate at point of origin, which was paid.
When the cars reached Portland the Northern Pacific
Company refused to accept them, claiming that it could
not lawfully carry intoxicating liquors in carload lots
into the State of Washington, under the laws of the
United States and of that State. Thereupon the liquor

OCTOBER TERM, 1021.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

was re-billed, each package or case separately, and the
railroad company carried it to Seattle and delivered it
to the individual consignees.
This suit is by the steamship company to recover the
difference between the carload and the less than carload
rate for the shipment. The case was tried on stipulated
facts and, a jury being waived, the District Court rendered judgment for the plaintiff which was affirmed by
the Circuit Court of Appeals. The parties agree that
only one question is presented for decision, viz: Could
the railroad company have lawfully transported the beer
to Seattle and have delivered it to the Transfer Company,
the consignee named in the bill of lading, in carload lots?
To answer this question involves the construction and
application of § 240 of the Federal Criminal Code, of the
Webb-Kenyon Act (37 Stat. 699, c. 90), and of several
sections of c. 1-A of Title XLVII of the Laws of Washington entitled "Prohibition and Regulation," (Remington's Codes and Statutes of Washington, 1915, vol. II,
§§ 6262-1 to 6262-22, inclusive).
Section 240 of the Federal Criminal Code provides:
"Whoever shall knowingly ship . . . from one
State .
.
into any other State . . . any package of or package containing any . . . intoxicating
liquor of any kind, unless such package be so labeled on
the outside cover as to plainly show the name of the consignee, the nature of its contents, and the quantity contained therein, shall be fined not more than five thousand
dollars
"
The Webb-Kenyon Act prohibited the "shipment or
transportation, in any manner or by any means whatsoever," of any intoxicating liquors of any kind from one
State to another State to be received or in any manner
used in violation of any law of any such latter State (37
Stat. 699, c. 90). With these laws in force at the time,
the railroad company could carry the beer into Washington only when labeled as required by § 240, supra, and in

RAINIER CO. v. GREAT NORTHERN CO.
150.

153

Opinion of the Court.

the manner allowed by the laws of that State (Clark Distilling Co. v. Western Maryland Ry. Co., 242 U. S.311),
which we shall briefly consider.
Section 6262-29 of the state law, cited supra, limited
the amount of liquor which any person, other than a common carrier, could bring into the State at one time to not
more than twelve quarts of beer or one-half gallon of
other liquor and even this amount could lawfully be imported only under a permit issued by a county auditor.
Only one such permit could be issued to any one person
in any twenty-day period (§ 6262-16).
"Any person desiring to ship or transport any intoxicating liquor" in the State must secure a permit which
could be obtained only by an application to the county
auditor, in which must be given under oath the name and
age of the applicant, the name of the person (or corporation) from whom and the places from and to which the
shipment was to be made (§ 6262-15). "Such permit
shall be printed upon some shade of red paper," read the
law, and must be substantially in the following form:
" STATE OF WASHINGTON] SS.

J

COUNTY OF

-- ,residing at ..............................
,is hereby permitted
to ship or transport from ......, in the state of ...............
to......

,

in the county of ...................
, state of Wash-

ington, intoxicating liquor, to wit: ........................
(insert kind
and quantity, not exceeding in quantity one-half gallon of
intoxicating liquor other than beer, or twelve quarts of
beer or twenty-four pints of beer). This permit can only
be used for one shipment and will be void after thirty days
from the date of issue.
Dated this.....
....... day of ..................
19.
..
..........................................
,

County Auditor."
The law further required that the permit should be conspicuously affixed to each package or parcel containing

154

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

liquor brought into the State, and when so affixed it authorized any railroad company to transport not to exceed
in one package or parcel the limited amount 'specified.
It was further declared to be unlawful for any railroad
company to knowingly transport such liquor in the State
without having the required permit conspicuously attached to each parcel containing it and the carrier was required to so cancel the permit that it could not be used
again. It was made unlawful 'for any person to receive
such liquor which did not have the required permit attached thereto and properly canceled. (§§ 6262-15 and
6262-18). Each package must be " clearly and plainly
marked in large letters: 'This Package Contains Intoxicating Liquor'." (§ 6262-20.)
This statement of the applicable law shows that the
purpose of the legislation was to make the transportation
of intoxicating liquors in the State of Washington as difficult, conspicuous and expensive as possible. Only an individual could qualify to ship or receive it and it was intended that it should move only in a single package of
strictly limited quantity, with a permit attached, showing
its origin, destination and the name of the shipper who
must also be the ultimate consignee. A carrier could lawfully receive it for transportation only when the required
permit was attached and it was made its legal duty to
deface and cancel such permit before delivery so that it
could not again be used. It is stipulated that all of the
statutory requirements as to packing, permits and markings were complied with as to the packages here involved,
but it is argued that when so prepared for shipment the
statute permitted the beer to be carried not only by a railroad company, but also by "any person, firm or corporation operating any . . . vehicle for the transportation of goods " and that, therefore, the railroad company
could have discharged all of its obligations under the law
by making bulk delivery of the carload lots to the Transfer
Company for distribution and delivery to the permittees,

RAINIER CO. v. GREAT NORTHERN CO.
150.

155

Opinion of the Court.

who were the ultimate and real consignees, trusting to that
company to make only legal deliveries and to cancel all
permits as required by the statute.
With this contention we cannot agree.
The line of the railroad company extended to Seattle,
the destination of the beer, and the state statute rendered
the permittee the ultimate and real consignee. Under
the general law of carriers, it was the duty of the railroad
company to make delivery to the consignees, either at its
station or at their residences or places of business, conformably to local custom, and the requirement of the statute that the delivering carrier must deface and cancel the
permit on each package, added to the imperative character of this obligation. Delivery under the terms of the
original bill of lading would have been to the Transfer
Company, not as a carrier authorized by law to transport
the beer on its way to destination, but to it as a terminal
consignee and as such it could not possibly have qualified
under the state law. No further transportation was
required, only delivery remained.
The markings of the packages, required by both the
federal and state law, advised the railroad company of the
character of their contents and as to the real consignees
and that they resided in Seattle and we think, therefore,
that it was clearly its duty to refuse to carry the beer in
carload bulk shipments for delivery to the Transfer Company, and that it was within its legal rights in insisting
that the traffic be billed in a form which would render convenient such inspection as was necessary to insure conformity to the law in the markings of packages, and such
as would render it possible for the company to make
delivery to consignees with the permits canceled as the
statute required.
It results that the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals must be
Affirmed.

