EWERT v. BLUEJACKET.
125.

Syllabus.

erate election or by conduct inconsistent with the assertion of such a right. Pierce v. Somerset Railway, 171
U. S. 641, 648; Wall v. Parrot Silver & Copper Co., 244
U. S. 407, 411.
The prior order of the Commission, exempting the
Pierce Company from the obligations of a common carrier
was made on an ex parte application and was expressly
subject to revocation at any time, so that it was and is
entirely idle to claim that it constituted any obstacle to
the entry by the Commission of the order complained of
in this case.
It results that the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Oklahoma must be
Affirmed.
EWERT v. BLUEJACKET, A WIDOW, ET AL.
BLUEJACKET, A WIDOW, ET AL. v. EWERT.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH: CIRCUIT.
Nos. 173, 186. Argued March 17, 1922;-Decided May 15, 1922.
1. An attorney at law who is employed at the expense of the United
States, by and under the direction of the Attorney General, as a
special assistant, to assist in the institution and prosecution of
suits to set aside deeds of allotted Indian lands, at an Indian
Agency, his official duties requiring all of his time, is "a person
employed in Indian affairs" within the meaning of Rev. Stats.,
§ 2078, forbidding such persons to "have any interest or concern in
any trade with the Indians, except for and on account of the
United States." P. 135.
2. The section covers not only trade carried on with the Indians as a
business, but also an individual purchase of an Indian's land allotment. P. 137.
3. A deed taken in violation of this section is void, passing the legal
title only; and neither the state statute of limitations nor the doctrine of laches applies to a suit brought in the District Court against

130

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Ewert.

259 U. S.

the grantee by the Indian owners to set the transaction aside; and
they are entitled to indemnity against mortgages made by the
grantee as well as to a reconveyance. P. 137.
4. So held where the land bought by the attorney was not involved
in the litigation about which he was employed, and was deeded to
him, with the approval of the Secretary of the Interior, pursuant
to a public advertised sale of the tract, conducted after appraisement and otherwise pursuant to the rules and regulations of the
Department, under the act (32 Stat. 245, 275) authorizing sale of
restricted allotments by the heirs of allottees, and after the pro-

posed sale, as to interests of minor heirs, had been approved by
the proper state court upon petition of their guardian.
5. An error made by the Interior Department in the interpretation

of the statute cannot confer legal rights inconsistent with its
express terms. P. 138.
265 Fed. 823, affirmed in part and reversed in part.

APPAL from a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
in part affirming and in part reversing a decree of the
District Court dismissing the bill in a suit brought by the
heirs of an Indian to set aside a deed of his restricted land
allotment, which they had made to the appellant, with
the approval of the Secretary of the Interior, pursuant to
a public sale, under the act of Congress and departmental
regulations governing such transactions. The facts are
more fully stated in the opinion of the court below.
Mr. Arthur S. Thompson for Bluejacket et al.
Mr. Paul A. Ewert pro se. Mr. Henry C. Lewis and
Mr. W. H. Kornegay were also on the briefs.
The history of § 2078, Rev. Stats., and the rules, regulations and practice of the Secretary of the Interior with
regard to it, clearly show that the section was not intended and should not be construed to embrace transactions of the kind here involved.
Both before and after the purchase in question its
legality was considered and approved by the Attorney
General and the Secretary of the Interior.

EWERT v. BLUEJACKET.
129.

Argument for Ewert.

It was a fundamental error to treat the sale as a transaction directly between Ewert and the Indians rather
than as a sale made to him by the United States, acting
as their guardian.
Ewert's employment was strictly legal and under the
Department of Justice. He was not employed in Indian
affairs, nor an "officer" of the Indian Department.
United States v. Germaine,99 U. S. 508.
The statute is highly penal and should be strictly construed, and it cannot have one construction for criminal,
and another for civil, cases.
"Employed in Indian affairs" means "employed in the
office of Indian affairs," within the meaning of the Revised Statutes.
It is at least not clear that Congress in revising § 14
of the Act of 1834, 4 Stat. 738, intended, by the expression "employed in Indian affairs," anything wider than
the expression "employed in the Indian department," as
used in the original act.
The broad construction contended for would bring the
employees of every department of the Government within
this section. Contrast the specific inhibition against any
agent or employee of the Government having any interest
in contracts respecting supplies, found in 1st Supp. Rev.
Stats., p. 67, § 10.
Special assistants to the Attorney General are a means
provided by Congress for meeting emergencies in the
service which cannot be foreseen or do not warrant a
recurring and individual annual appropriation, such as is
made for the regular and permanent staff. They may
be employed for one day or indefinitely, in one kind of
service or another. Their compensation is wholly a matter for the Attorney General. Their services not only
terminate at his pleasure, but with the conclusion or
suspension of the particular work for which they are
employed.

132

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Ewert.

259 U. S.

Because of these characteristics, which place them upon
a plane with other persons who are sporadically and
ephemerally employed by the- heads of departments to
perform various kinds of service, commonly called "piece
work," these attorneys are held not to come within the
various statutes, which, for one reason or another, restrict
officers and employees in commercial transactions and
private services. And the reasons are quite obvious: On
the one hand an impairment of the service by the prohibited acts could not well be predicated of the fleeting
and precarious duration of their services. On the other,
it would often be difficult to secure such services if Congress were so to restrict them, for the gain would often not
compensate for the restraints. Citing letters of the Attorney General to Charles R. Bosworth, May 8, 1917, and
to Robert W. Childs, December 28, 1914. These opinions are necessarily a construction of the act under which
appellant was employed. See also 26 Ops. Atty. Gen.
247; United States v. Rosenthal, 121 Fed. 862; United
States v. Virginia-CarolinaChemical Co., 163 Fed. 66.
There is absolutely no proof of Ewcrt's work in "Indian
affairs." There is not a single word of testimony showing that Ewert ever did in fact institute a single suit to
set aside the deeds concerning which he was employed.
Outside of the record, the appellant admits that there
were, at the time of his appointment, already pending,
eight suits theretofore filed by the United States, having
for their purpose the setting aside of certain deeds to certain Indian lands, however, not Quapaw Indian lands,
made by the United States marshal for Indian Territory
under the direction of the Territorial United States Court
for Indian Territory, in certain partition proceedings.
The suits were instituted by the Government. The Indians were never consulted. The lands were located in the
former reservations of the Shawnee, Ottawa and Seneca

EWERT v. BLUEJACKET.
129.

Opinion of the Court.

Indians. They were not located in the reservation of the
Quapaw Indians, out of which Charles Bluejacket received
his allotment.
The point here desired to be directed to the attention of
the court is that, under the terms of Ewert's employment,
he was not in fact performing any services or engaged in
Indian affairs of any kind, in so far as they affected the
tribe of Indians known as Quapaw Indians, of which
Charles Bluejacket was an allottee.
The court erred in not holding that the approval by the
Secretary of the Interior, the Attorney General and the
Commissioner were departmental constructions in appellant's favor of all controlling statutes, and in not following that construction) and in not holding that § 2078 does
not apply to real estate transactions.
The removal of the restrictions by the terms of the
statute, and the selling of the land with the approval of
the Secretary of the Interior, had the effect of taking the
transaction out of the law prohibiting trade with Indians.
In holding that the deed to Ewert is void the court
fixes an additional penalty not provided in the statute and
not intended by the lawmaking power. Dunlap v. Mercer, 156*Fed. 545; Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184
U. S. 540.
The conveyance cannot be impugned by the grantor
and his heirs. The sovereign alone can object.
MR. JusTICE. CLARY.

delivered the opinion of the court.

We have here cross appeals in a suit to have declared
invalid a deed to Paul A. Ewert for restricted lands inherited by the widow and adult and minor heirs of Charles
Bluejacket, a full-blood Quapaw Indian, and for an accounting for rents and royalties derived from such lands.
On October 23, 1908, Ewert was appointed a special
assistant to the Attorney General of the United States to

134

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

"assist in the institution and prosecution of suits to set
aside deeds to certain allotments in the Quapaw Indian
Agency," and by the terms of his appointment his official
residence was fixed at Miami, Oklahoma. He testifies
that he took the oath of office on the 10th of November,
1908, and about December 1st opened an office at Miami.
In his answer he alleges that he made his first bid for the
land involved on December 21, 1908, within a month after
his arrival at his post; that a second bid was made by him
on January 25, 1909, and a third on February 22, 1909,
all of which were rejected because less than the appraisement. On March 29, 1909, he made a bid of $5,000 for
the land, which was accepted. The -deed he received was
dated April 8, 1909, and was approved by the Secretary
of the Interior on July 26th following.
Charles Bluejacket, the ancestor of the vendors, was a
full-blood Quapaw Indian and as such received a patent
for the lands involved, dated September 26, 1896, which
provided-pursuant to 28 Stat. 907-that the land should
be "inalienable for a period of twenty-five years" from
and after the date of the patent. Thus the restraint on
alienation did not expire until September 26, 1921, and
it ran with the land, binding the heirs precisely as it
bound the ancestor. United States v. Noble, 237 U. S.
74, 80.
Congress provided, in 1902 (32- Stat. 245, 275), that
adult heirs of a deceased Indian might sell and convey
full title to inherited lands free from restrictions, but only
by conveyances approved by the Secretary of the Interior,
and that the interests of minor heirs might also be so sold
and conveyed upon petition of a guardian, on order of a
proper court and when the sale was approved by the
Secretary of the Interior. Under this statute the lands
in controversy were sold in the public manner required by
the rules of the Department of the Interior and for the

EWERT v. BLUEJACKET.
129.

Opinion of the Court.

purposes of this decision all required action is assumed to
have been, in form, properly taken.
The ground upon which the validity of the conveyance
to Ewert is assailed is that Rev. Stats., § 2078, rendered it
unlawful for him to become a purchaser of Indian lands
while holding the position which he did as a Special Assistant to the Attorney General "to assist in the institution and prosecution of suits to set aside deeds to certain
allotments in the Quapaw Indian Agency" and that,
therefore, the deed to him was void.
Revised Statutes, § 2078, reads: "No person employed
in Indian affairs shall have any interest or concern in
any trade with the Indians, except for, and on account of,
the United States; and any person offending herein, shall
be liable to a penalty of five thousand dollars, and shall be
removed from his office."
The District Court held that Ewert was not so employed in Indian affairs as to come within the scope and
condemnation of the statute and dismissed the bill. On
appeal, the Circuit Court of Appeals held that he came
within the statute and reversed the decree of the District
Court as to the minor heirs but affirmed it as to the adult
heirs on the ground that they were guilty of such laches
in delaying bringing suit from the date of the deed in
1909 to 1916 that their cause of action was barred. The
case is here for construction of this act of Congress.
It is argued that when the land was purchased by
Ewert he was not "employed in Indian affairs" within
the meaning of Rev. Stats., § 2078, which, it is contended,
includes only "Officers of Indian Affairs," provided for in
Rev. Stats., Title XXVIII, and its amendments.
The section is derived from the Act of June 30, 1834,
c. 162, § 14, 4 Stat. 738, which declared that "No person
employed in the Indian department shall have any interest or concern in any trade with the Indians," etc. The
substitution of "employed in Indian affairs," used in the

136

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

section of the Revised Statutes for "employed in the Indian department," used in the prior act, was plainly intended to eilarge the scope of the provision so that it
should include all persons employed in Indian affairs, even
though they might not be on the roll of the Indian department which is really only a bureau of the Interior
Department.
The purpose of the section clearly is to protect the inexperienced, dependent and improvident Indians from the
avarice and cunning of unscrupulous men in official position and at the same time to prevent officials from being
tempted, as they otherwise might be, to speculate on that
inexperience or upon the necessities and weaknesses of
these "Wards of the Nation." United States v. Hutto,
No. 1, 256 U. S. 524, 528.
Since the Act of June 22, 1870, c. 150, 16 Stat. 164, carried into Rev. Stats., § 189, no head of any department of
the Government has been permitted to employ legal counsel at the expense of the United States, but whenever
such counsel is desired a call must be made upon the Department of Justice, by which it is furnished. In this
case, as we have seen, Ewert was specially employed and
detailed by the Attorney General, not only to devote himself to Indian affairs but specifically to institute and prosecute suits relating to lands of the Quapaw Indians, with
which we are here concerned, and he himself testifies that
during his employment he devoted all of his time to such
official duties. He was thus employed to give, and he testifies that at the time of this purchase he was giving, all
of his time to the affairs, not of the Indians in general, but
to matters relating specifically to the titles of the lands of
the Quapaw allottees. If he had been employed by the
Secretary of the Interior or by the Commissioner of Indian
Affairs to perform the same service no refinement could
have suggested the inapplicability to him of the statute,
and the fact that under the form of departmental organi-

EWERT v. BLUEJACKET.
129.

Opinion of the Court.

zation of the government provided for by statute he was
under the general direction of the Department of Justice
at the time can make no difference.
We fully agree with the Circuit Court of Appeals that
Ewert was employed in Indian affairs within the meaning
and intendment of the act when he purchased the land.
It is next contended that the "trade with the Indians"
in which persons employed in Indian affairs were prohibited by the section from engaging must be confined to
trade with them when conducted as a business or occupation-to merchants or dealers supplying the Indians with
the necessities or conveniences of life. Having regard to
the purpose of the statute, as we have stated it, we think
that no such narrow interpretation can be given to the
section. Congress can not have intended to prohibit the
use of official position and influence for the purpose of
overreaching the Indians in the selling to them of clothing
or groceries and to permit their use in stripping them of
their homes and lands. In United States v. Douglas, 190
Fed. 482, the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit declined to allow precisely such a construction as it is
contended should be here given to the section and ruled
that the purchase of cattle by an industrial teacher of Indians came within its terms. This decision was rendered
over ten years ago and if it had been deemed an erroneous
construction of the act, Congress would no doubt have
long since modified it. Again we agree with the Circuit
Court of Appeals that the land was acquired by Ewert in
trade with the Indians, within the meaning of the section.
The Circuit Court of Appeals upon the construction of
the statute, with which we thus agree, held the sale to
Ewert invalid as to the minor Indian heirs, but, while
properly regarding the limitation statutes of Oklahoma as
inapplicable, held the adult heirs were barred by laches in
failing for seven years to institute suit after delivery of
the deed to the land. In this the court fell into error.

138

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

"The general rule of law is that an act done in violation
of a statutory prohibition is void and confers no right upon
the wrongdoer." Waskey v. Hammer, 223 U. S. 85, 94,
and cases cited. The qualifications of this rule suggested
in the decisions are as inapplicable to this case as they
were to the Waskey Case. The mischief sought to be
prevented by the statute is grave and it not only prohibits
such purchases but it renders the persons making them
liable to the penalty of the large fine of $5,000 and removal from office. Any error by the department in the
interpretation of the statute can not confer legal rights
inconsistent with its express terms. Prosserv. Finn,208
U. S. 67.
The purchase by Ewert being prohibited by the statute
was void. Waskey v. Hammer,supra. He still holds the
legal title to the land and the equitable doctrine of laches,
developed and designed to protect good faith transactions
against those who have slept upon their rights, with
knowledge and ample opportunity to assert them, cannot
properly have application to give vitality to a void deed
and to bar the rights of Indian wards in lands subject to
statutory restrictions. Galliher v. Cadwell, 145 U. S.
368, 372; Halstead v. Grinnan, 152 U. S. 412, 417, and
NorthernPacificRy. Co. v. Boyd, 228 U. S. 482, 500.
It is alleged in the petition, and not denied, that Ewert
encumbered the lands involved with a mortgage and
against it indemnification is prayed for, which should be
granted if the lien still subsists.
It results that the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals will be affirmed as to the minor heirs and that as to
the adult heirs it must be reversed and the cause remanded
to the District Court for an accounting and for further
proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Affirmed in part.
Reversed in partand remanded.

