260

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

259 U. S.

manded, and we think no damage could have resulted from
the erroneous theory adopted by the trial court. The
Caledonia, 157 U. S. 124, 131; Thompson Towing &
Wrecking Association v. McGregor,207 Fed. 209, 211.
Petitioner asked an instruction that ยง 4283 of the Revised Statutes 1 applied, and that under it the verdict could
not exceed the value of the vessel. In a state court, when
there is only one possible claimant and one owner, the advantage of this section may be obtained by proper pleading. The Lotta, 150 Fed. 219, 222; Delaware River Ferry
Co. v. Amos, 179 Fed. 756. Here the privilege was not
set up or claimed in the answer, and it could not be first
presented upon request for a charge to .the jury.
The judgment below must be
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE concurs in the result.

OLIN v. KITZMILLER ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 246. Argued April 21, 1922.-Decided May 29, 1922.
The compact between Washington and Oregon, approved by Congress April 8, 1918, agreeing that all laws and regulations for regulating, protecting or preserving fish in the waters of the Colupnbia
River of which the two States have concurrent jurisdiction shall
be made and altered only with the consent of both States, and the
'Sec. 4283. The liability of the owner of any vessel, for any embezzlement, loss, or destruction, by any person, of any property, goods,
or merchandise, shipped or put on board of such vessel, or for any
loss, damage, or injury by collision, or for any act, matter, or thing,
lost, damage, or forfeiture, 'done, occasioned, or incurred, without the
privity, or knowledge of such owner or owners, shall in no case exceed
the amount or value of the interest of such owner in such vessel,
and her freight then pending.

OLIN v. KITZMILLER.
260.

Opinion of the Court.

provision in the acts in which they accepted the compact, that no
license to fish shall be issued to any person not a citizen of the
United States unless he has declared his intention to become such,
etc., were not intended to prevent either State from narrowing the
licensable classes, e. g., by excluding persons who are not citizens.

P. 263.
268 Fed. 348, affirmed.

from a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
affirming a decree of the District Court which dismissed,
for want of equity, a bill by which the plaintiff sought
to compel the defendant officers of the State of Oregon
to issue him a license to fish in the Columbia River.
APPEAL

Mr. Arthur I. Moulton, with whom Mr. Win. P. Lord
and Mr. James E. Fenton were on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Willis S. Moore and Mr. W. W. Banks, with whom
Mr. I. H. Van Winkle, Attorney General of the State of
Oregon, and Mr. James G. Wilson were on the brief, for
appellees.
MR. JUSTICE MOCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
court.
The bill was dismissed upon motion by the trial court
for want of equity and the Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed this action. 268 Fed. 348.
Appellant-a native of Russia who has declared his intention to become a citizen of the United States-claims
the right to fish in specified locations in the Columbia
River and seeks a mandatory injunction requiring the
Master Fish Warden and other officers of Oregon to issue
a license therefor.
His prayer is based upon the theory that so much of c.
292, General Laws of Oregon, 1919, as directs that no fishing license "shall be issued to any person who is not a
citizen of the United States" impairs the obligation
(Const., Art. I, ยง 10) of the compact and agreement be-

262

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

tween the States of Washington and Oregon ratified by an
Act of Congress approved April 8, 1918-c. 47, 40 Stat.
515--which follows:
"The Congress of the United States of America hereby
consents to and ratifies the compact and agreement entered into between the States of Oregon and Washington
relative to regulating, protecting, and preserving fish in
the boundary waters of the Columbia River and other
waters, which compact and agreement is contained in section twenty of chapter one hundred and eighty-eight of
the general laws of Oregon for nineteen hundred and fifteen, and section one hundred and sixteen, chapter thirtyone, of the session laws of Washington for nineteen hundred and fifteen, and is as follows:
"'All laws and regulations now existing, or which may
be necessary for regulating, protecting, or preserving fish
in the waters of the Columbia River, over which the States
of Oregon and Washington have concurrent jurisdiction,
or any other waters within either of said States, which
would affect said concurrent jurisdiction, shall be made,
changed, altered, and amended in whole or in part, only
with the mutual consent and approbation of both States.'
"Nothing herein contained shall be construed to affect
the right of the United States to regulate commerce, or the
jurisdiction of the United States over navigable waters."
The statutes in which the States accepted the compact
are not identical, but each one provides"No license for taking or catching salmon or other food
or shell fish, required by laws of this State, shall be
issued to any person who is not a citizen of the United
States, unless such person has declared his intention to
become a citizen, and is and has been an actual resident
of the State for one year immediately preceding the application for such license, nor shall any license be issued to a
corporation unless it is authorized to do business in this
State." Oregon Laws, 1915, c. 188, ยง 5; Washington
Laws, 1915, c. 31, ยง43.

INDUSTRIAL COMM. v. NORDENHOLT CO.
260.

263

Syllabus.

Appellant's postulate is that the quoted provision read
in connection with the compact inhibits each State from
restricting its fishing licenses to citizens of the United
States without consent of the other. If this is unsound,
no foundation exists for his claim and all other questions
may be disregarded.
Considering the object and nature of the compact and
the two Acts of 1915, we cannot conclude that the parties
intended by the identical provision to obligate themselves
to issue any fishing license; the purpose was to limit the
classes of persons who might have them-beyond which
the State might not go. There is no inhibition against
narrowing these classes nor indeed against a refusal to
issue any license. The Oregon legislature acted in harmony with the compact when it excluded aliens; there
was no impairment and the judgment of the court below
must be
Affirmed.

STATE INDUSTRIAL COMMISSION OF THE
STATE OF NEW YORK v. NORDENFIOLT CORPORATION ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW
YORK.

No. 625.

Argued March 9, 1922.-Decided May 29, 1922.

1. When an employee, while working on board a vessel lying in
navigable waters, sustains personal injuries there and seeks damages from his employer, the liability of the employer must be
determined under the maritime law. P. 272.
2. But where the injuries occur while the employee is engaged in
unloading the vessel on land the local law has always been applied.
P. 273.
3. A longshoreman was injured on a dock (an extension of the land)
while engaged about the unloading of a vessel lying in navigable
waters in New York, and died as a result of his injuries. Held,
that his contract of employment did not contemplate any dominant

