498

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Statement of the Case.

259 U. S.

WEILAND, STATE ENGINEER OF THE STATE OF
COLORADO, ET AL. v. PIONEER IRRIGATION
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 3. Argued January 17, 1919; restored to docket for reargument
June 6, 1921; reargued January 10, 11, 1922.-Decided June 5, 1922.

1. Where a substantial claim of federal, constitutional right is set up
in the bill, in addition to diverse citizenship, and is made the basis
of decision in the District Court and the Circuit Court of Appeals,
the decree of the latter court is appealable here under Jud. Code,
ยง 128. P. 501.
2. Water of a stream flowing from Colorado into Nebraska was diverted in Colorado by a Nebraska corporation and transported
through its canal to Nebraska where it was sold and used on Nebraska lands. Held, that the appropriation was superior in right
to later appropriations from the stream made in Colorado for use
on Colorado lands, and that state officials of Colorado were properly enjoined from interfering with it and from treating the appropriator, in the distribution of water, otherwise than if the canal
and lands irrigated therefrom were wholly within that State, notwithstanding their objection that the waters of natural streams in
Colorado are, by her constitution and laws, the property of the
public dedicated to the use of her people and cannot be taken for
use elsewhere as against persons desiring to use them in Colorado.
P. 502. Wyoming v. Colorado,ante, 419.
238 Fed. 519, affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
affirming a decree *of the District Court enjoining the
appellants, officials of the State of Colorado, from interfering with the appellee's right to take water, in Colorado,
from a stream flowing thence into Nebraska, for use on
lands in Nebraska, and requiring them to recognize the
appropriation, in the distribution of water, according to
its priority.

WEILAND v. PIONEER IRRIG. CO.
498.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Victor E. Keyes, Attorney General of the State of
Colorado, and Mr. Delph E. Carpenter,with whom Mr.
Leslie E. Hubbard, Mr. Fred Farrarand Mr. Charles
Roach were on the briefs, for appellants.1
Mr. Edwin H. Park for appellee.
MR. JusficIE CLARim delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellants, defendants below, are citizens and officers of the State of Colorado, charged with official duties
with respect to the distribution of water from streams of
that State for irrigating purposes, and other citizens of
Colorado, who need not be further noticed.
The appellee, plaintiff below, a. corporation organized
under Nebraska laws, is the owner of an irrigating canal
by which it has diverted water from the North Fork of the
Republican River, an interstate stream, at a point about
six miles west of the east line of Colorado. Since 1890
one-third of the water thus obtained has been sold and
used on lands in Colorado and the remaining two-thirds
carried by the canal into Nebraska has been used on lands
in that State.
This suit was commenced in 1913, in the District Court
of the United States for the District of Colorado. The
bill of complaint is not printed in full in the record, but
the epitome of it shows that, in addition to diversity of
citizenship as a basis of jurisdiction, it was averred that
the right of appellee, under the Constitution of the United
States, to engage in commerce between the States of Colorado and Nebraska by transporting water from the former
into the latter and there selling it for agricultural and
domestic purposes was being seriously impaired by the
unconstitutional conduct of the state officials of Colorado
1

At the former hearing the case was argued by Mr. Carpenter on

behalf of the appellants.

5WO

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

in permitting, under color of the laws of. that State, the
wasteful use of the water*by appropriators prior in right,
and the use by others subsequent in right, to a valid appropriation by the appellee. There was also a general
allegation that rights of appellee secured to it by the Constitution and laws of the United States had been invaded
by the action of the appellant officials. A-decree permanently enjoining this alleged unconstitutional action
by the state officers was prayed for.
In its decree the District Court found that there existed
the requisite diversity of citizenship to give the court
jurisdiction and also that the "suit was brought to obtain
redress for the deprivation by defendants [appellants] of
rights and privileges secured to the complainant [appellee] by the Constitution and laws of the United
States" and that therefore it was a suit arising under the
laws of the United States. The court found that the carrying capacity of appellee's ditch at the Nebraska state
line was 29 cubic feet of water per second, that since the
date of the construction of the ditch in 1890 that amount
of water had been put to beneficial use in the irrigation
of lands within the State of Nebraska, and that by reason
of such continued beneficial use there had become vested
in the appellee a property right to the continued use
thereof. The Colorado officials, and their successors in
office were enjoined, "from interfering with the right of
complainant [appellee] to said water as herein adjudged,
and . . . from treating the complainant in the distribution of water . . . otherwise than it would be
treated if said canal were wholly within the State of Colorado, and all lands irrigated therefrom were in said last
named State."
The court declined to consider the question of the
wasteful or other use of the water by other appropriators
in Colorado and confining its decree to the one point dealt
with in the injunction, expressly left open for considera-

WEILAND v. PIONEER IRRIG. CO.
498.

Opinion of the Court.

tion and determination in another proceeding all other
issues joined under the pleadings.
The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the decree of the
District Court and on the contention that a constitutional
question is involved the case is brought here for review.
The appellee filed a motion in this court to dismiss or
affirm, which was passed to hearing on the merits.
In support of the motion to dismiss it is argued that
although jurisdiction was invoked in the bill on sufficiently
alleged federal grounds, in addition to diversity of citizenship, nevertheless both the District Court and the Circuit
Court of Appeals sustained appellee's use and disposition
of the water in Nebraska as one merely of prescriptive
right, derived from twenty years of undisputed use and
not upon any federal constitutional ground, and that
therefore the jurisdiction exercised rested wholly upon
diversity of citizenship and an appeal does not lie from the
decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals under ยง 128 of
the Judicial Code.
The ground of federal jurisdiction, other than diversity
of citizenship, being sufficiently set up in the bill, such a
motion to dismiss can prevail only if the claim is so unsubstantial as to be frivolous. Shulthis v. McDougal, 225
U. S. 561; Lovell .v. Newman & Son, 227 U. S. 412, 420.
But such clearly was not the fact in this case.
It is entirely clear that the essential and substantial
issue in the case arose from the assertion by the appellee
of the federal constitutional right to transport water, derived from an interstate stream, from Colorado into Nebraska under its priority of appropriation as of 1890, and
the denial of this claim by the appellant state officers,
based upon the contention that water in natural interstate
streams in Colorado, having been declared by the constitution and laws of that State to be the property of the
public, dedicated to the use of the people of Colorado, the
right could not be obtained by appropriation and beneficial

502

OCTOBER.TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

use, to carry such water into an adjoining State for like
use, as against persons desiring to use it in Colorado, even
though junior in point of date of appropriation. Both
lower courts denied this contention of the state officials,
appellants, and enjoined them from treating the appellee
in the distribution of water otherwise than as if the state
line had not existed, and the land irrigated had been
wholly within the State of Colorado. It is thus plain that
the decree appealed from necessarily rested, not upon
Colorado laws or decisions which attempted to deny the
asserted right to the use of the water in Nebraska, nor
upon Nebraska laws or decisions which could not be effective in Colorado, but upon rights secured to the appellee
by the Constitution of the United States. This substantial and very fundamental question being in the case, and
essential to the disposition which was made of it, the
motion to dismiss must be overruled.
As to the merits of the case. In the discussion of the
jurisdictional question it has been sufficiently developed
that the essential controversy here involved is whether
priority of appropriation of water, from the part of an
interstate stream in Colorado, for beneficial use on lands
in Nebraska, into which State the stream in a state of
nature flows, gives superiority of right- over later appropriation also made in Colorado from the same stream, but
for use in that State.
Both of the lower courts held that the presence of the
state line did not affect the superiority of right and enjoined the Colorado state officials from treating the appellee in the distribution of water otherwise than it would
be treated if the canal were wholly within the State of
Colorado and all the lands irrigated therefrom were in that
State.
The question thus presented is so fully disposed of on
principle and authority in the opinion of the court this
day announced in No. 3 Original, Wyoming v. Colorado,

WARD & 0W v. KRINSKY.
498.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

ante, 419, that further discussion of it would be superfluous and upon the -authority of that decision the decree of
the Circuit Court of Appeals is

Affirmed.

WARD & GOW v. KRINSKY ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT, APPELLATE DIVISION, THIRD
JUDICIAL DEPARTMENT, OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.

No. 343. Argued December 14, 1921.-Decided June 5, 1922.
1. The rights of employers under the Fourteenth Amendment are not
violated by an extension of the New York Compensation Act (see
New York CentralR. R. Co. v. White, 243 U. S. 188) to all employments in which four or more workmen or operatives (farm laborers
and domestic servants excepted) are regularly employed, construed
by the state court as including, also, all other employees of the
same employer and employed in the same business with such workmen and operatives, though at places remote from their work. Pp.
510, 513, 516.
2. So held of an employer in the business of disposing of advertising
space on the cars and station platforms of subway and elevated
railway lines in a city, and of selling newspapers, etc., at booths
located on the platforms; with numerous employees, including executives, clerks, inspectors, chauffeurs and porters; and many salesmen working in the booths separately and apart from other employees; and where the injury in question was inflicted upon such
a salesman by a subway train while he was engaged in emptying
from the platform upon the tracks a pail of water, used in connection with his work in his booth. P. 507.
193 App. Div. 557; 231 N. Y. 525, affirmed.
ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of New
York, Appellate Division, entered upon remittitur from
the Court of Appeals, and affirming an award of compensation made by the New York Compensation Commission in favor of the defendant in error Krinsky.

Mr. Herman S. Hertwig for plaintiff in error.
A classification of occupations as hazardous must bear
reasonable relation to the facts.

