344

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

259 U. S.

them. Such being the case, the Supreme Court of the
District was without power to review or in any manner
control the conduct of the boards or the result of their
action. Dynes v. Hoover, 20 How. 65, 82; Johnson v.
Sayre, 158 U. S.109; Carterv. McClaughry, 183 U. S. 365,
380; Mullan v. United States, 212 U. S. 516; Reaves v.
Ainsworth, 219-U. S. 296, 304. Without pursuing the subject further it is sufficient to repeat what was said by this
court in Reaves v. Ainsworth, 219 U. S. 296, 304: "To
those in the military or naval service of the United States
the military law is due process. The decision, therefore,
of a military tribunal acting within the scope of its lawful
powers cannot be reviewed or set aside by the courts."
It results that, because the action of the President,
given effect by the order of the Secretary of War, was in
full compliance with the act of Congress, and also because
the Supreme Court did not have jurisdiction to order the
writ of mandamus prayed for, the judgment of the Court
of Appeals reversing the judgment of that court must be
Affirmed.
UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA ET AL. v.
CORONADO COAL COMPANY ET AL.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 31. Argued October 15, 1920; restored to docket for reargument
January 3, 1922; reargued March 22, 23, 1922.-Decided June 5,
1922.
1. In view of the Conformity Act and the law of Arkansas respecting
consolidation of causes, held, that the District Court did not abuse
its discretion in permitting several allied corporations to be joined
as plaintiffs in an action prosecuted by their receiver to recover
triple damages under § 7 of the Sherman Act for the destruction
of their properties and business committed in an alleged conspiracy
to restrain interstate commerce. P. 382.

UNITED MINE WORKERS v. CORONADO CO.
344.

345

Syllabus.

2. Unincorporated labor unions, such as the United Mine Workers
of America, and its district and local branches, impleaded in this
case, recognized as distinct entities by numerous acts of Congress,
as well as by the laws and decisions of many States, are suable as
such in the federal courts upon process served on their principal
officers, for the torts committed by them in strikes; and their
strike-funds are subject to execution. P. 385.
3. Such associations are included by § 7 of the Sherman Act, permitting actions for damages resulting from conspiracies in restraint of
interstate commerce to be brought against "corporations and associations existing under or authorized by the laws of either the
United States" or the laws of any Territory, State or foreign country. P. 392.
4. Where the constitution of a general association of workmen, organized for the declared purpose of improving their wages and working conditions through strikes and other means, and subdivided
into district and local unions, through which its treasury was supplied, authorized the several district organizations to order local
strikes within their respective districts, but upon their own responsibility and without financial support from the general body unless
sanctioned by its governing board, and a local strike in which
serious trespasses were committed was called by a district without
such sanction, but in accordance with its own constitution, and
conducted by it at its own expense, held, that the general association was not responsible, upon principles of agency, even though
it had power to discipline the district and take over the strike
at its own expense, and that liability on its part and that of
its officers could not be sustained without substantial evidence
of their participation in or ratification of the torts committed.
P. 393.
5. The overwhelming weight of evidence in this case establishes that
the defendant district union and its officers, with other individual
defendants, participated in a plot unlawfully to deprive the plaintiffs of their employees by intimidation and violence, and in its
execution destroyed the plaintiffs' properties. P. 396.
6. Where the constitution of a district organization of several local
labor unions authorizes the district officers to order a local strike,
the district is responsible for injuries unlawfully inflicted in a strike
so ordered, and its strike funds may be subjected to a resulting
judgment. P. 403.
7. The mining of coal is not interstate commerce; and a conspiracy
to obstruct mining at particular mines, though it may prevent coal

346

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Statement of the Case.

259 U. S.

from going into interstate commerce, is not a conspiracy to restrain
that commerce, within the Sherman Act, unless an intention to
restrain it be proven or unless so direct and substantial an effect
upon it necessarily result from the obstruction to mining that such
intention must in reason be inferred. P. 410.
8. Evidence that a union of coal miners belonged to a general association which, as an incident of its object to promote wages, etc.,
had a general policy to unionize coal mines by strikes, etc., and thus
discourage competition of open-shop against union mines in interstate commerce, held not sufficient to prove that a conspiracy of the
lesser organization and its members, accompanied by a local strike,
to prevent the employment of non-union miners and the mining
of coal at particular mines, was a conspiracy to restrain interstate
commerce in violation of the Sherman Act, where the strike and
its lawless activities were the affair of the conspirators, explained
by local motives, and the normal output of the mines was not
enough to have a substantial effect on prices and competition in
interstate commerce from which a motive to assist the general
policy might be inferred. Pp. 403, 412.
258 Fed. 829, reversed.

THIS is a writ of error brought under § 241 of the Judicial Code, to review a judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals of the Eighth Circuit. That court on a writ of
error had affirmed the judgment of the District Court for
the Western District of Arkansas, in favor of the plaintiffs, with some modification, and that judgment thus
affirmed is here for review.
The plaintiffs in the District Court were the receivers
of the Bache-Denman Coal Company, and eight other
corporations in each of which the first-named company
owned a controlling amount of stock. They were closely
interrelated in corporate organization and in the physical
location of their coal mines. These had been operated
for some years as a unit under one set of officers in the
Prairie Creek Valley in Sebastian County, Arkansas. In
July, 1914, the District Court for the Western District
of Arkansas appointed a receiver for all of the nine companies by a single decree. The receiver then appointed

UNITED MINE WORKERS v. CORONADO CO.
344.

347

Statement of the Case.

was Franklin Bache, whose successors as such are defendants in error here.
The defendants in the court below were the United
Mine Workers of America, and -its officers, District 21 of
the United Mine Workers of America, and its officers, 27
local unions in District No. 21, and their officers, and 65
individuals, mostly members of one union or another, but
including some persons not members, all of whom were
charged in the complaint with having entered into a conspiracy to restrain and monopolize interstate commerce,
in violation of the first and second sections of the AntiTrust Act, and with having, in the course of that conspiracy, and for the purpose of consummating it, destroyed
the plaintiff's properties. Treble damages for this and an
attorney's fee were asked under the seventh section of
the act.
The original complaint was filed in September, 1914,
about six weeks after the destruction of the property. It
was demurred to, and the District Court sustained the
demurrer. This was carried to the Court of Appeals on
error, and the ruling of the District Court was reversed.
Dowd v. United Mine Workers, 235 Fed. 1. The case then
came to trial on the third amended complaint and answers
of the defendants. The trial resulted in a verdict of
$200,000 for the plaintiffs, which was trebled by the court,
and to which was added a counsel fee of $25,000, and interest to the amount of $120,600, from July 17, 1914, the
date of the destruction of the property, to November 22,
1917, the date upon which judgment was entered. The
verdict did not separate the amount found between the
companies. On a writ of error from the Court of Appeals,
the case was reversed as to the interest, but in other respects the judgment was affirmed. 258 Fed. 829. The defendants, the International Union and District No. 21,
have given a supersedeas bond to meet the judgment if it
is affirmed as against both or either of them.

348

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Statement of the Case.

259 U. S.

The third amended complaint avers that of the nine
companies, of which the plaintiff was receiver, and for
which he was bringing his suit, five were operating companies engaged in mining coal and shipping it in interstate commerce, employing in all about 870 men, and mining an annual product when working to their capacity
valued at $465,000, of which 75 per cent. was sold and
shipped to customers outside of the State. Of the five
operating companies, one was under contract to operate
the properties of two of the others, and four non-operating companies were each financially interested in one or
more of the operating companies either by lease, by contract, or by the ownership of all or a majority of their
stock. The defendant, the United Mine Workers of
America, is alleged to be an unincorporated association of
mine workers, governed by a constitution, with a membership exceeding 400,000, subdivided into thirty districts
and numerous local unions. These subordinate districts and unions are subject to the constitution and bylaws not only of the International Union, but also to constitutions of their own.
The complaint avers that the United Mine Workers
divide all coal mines into two classes, union or organized
mines operating under a contract with the union to employ only union miners, and open shop or non-union
mines, which refuse to make such a contract; that owing
to the unreasonable restrictions and regulations imposed
by the union on organized mines, the cost of production of
union coal is unnecessarily enhanced so as to prevent its
successful competition in the markets of the country with
non-union coal; that the object of the conspiracy of the
United Mine Workers and the union operators acting
with them is the protection of the union-mined coal by
the prevention and restraint of all interstate trade and
competition in the products of non-union mines. The
complaint enumerates twenty-three States in which coal

UNITED MINE WORKERS v. CORONADO CO. 349
344.

Statement of the Case.

mining is conducted, and alleges that the coal mined in
each comes into competition in interstate commerce, directly or indirectly, with that mined in Illinois, Kentucky,
Alabama, New Mexico, Colorado, Kansas, Oklahoma and
Arkansas, in the markets of Louisiana, Texas, Oklahoma,
Nebraska, Kansas, Missouri, Iowd and Minnesota, where,
but for the defendants' unlawful interference, plaintiffs
would have been engaged in trade in 1914; that the bituminous mines of the greater part of the above territory
are union mines, the principal exceptions being Alabama,
West Virginia, parts of Pennsylvania and Colorado, which
the defendant has thus far been unable to organize.
The complaint further avers that, early in 1914, the
plaintiff companies decided that the operating companies
should go on a non-union or open shop basis. Two of
them, the Prairie Creek Coal Mining Company and the
Mammoth Vein Coal Company, closed down and discontinued as union mines, preparatory to reopening as open
shop mines in April. They were to be operated under a
new contract by the Mammoth Vein Coal Mining Company. Another of the companies, the Hartford Coal Company, which had not been in operation, planned to start
as an open shop mine as soon as convenient in the summer
of 1914. The fifth, the Coronado Coal Company, continued operating with the union until April 18, 1914, when
its employees struck because of its unity of interest with
the other mines of the plaintiffs. The plaintiffs say that
in April, 1914, the defendants and those acting in conjunction with them, in furtherance of the general conspiracy, already described, to drive non-union coal out of
interstate commerce, and thus to protect union operators
from non-union competition, drove and frightened away
the plaintiffs' employees including those directly engaged
in shipping coal to other States, prevented the plaintiffs
from employing other men, destroyed the structures and
facilities for mining, loading and shipping coal, and the

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

259 U. S.

cars of interstate carriers waiting to be loaded, as well as
those already loaded with coal in and for interstate shipment, and prevented plaintiffs from engaging in or continuing to engage in interstate commerce. The complaint
alleges that the destruction to the property and business
amounted to the sum of $740,000, and asks judgment for
three times that amount or $2,220,000; Certain of the
funds of the United Mine Workers in Arkansas were attached. The defendants, the United Mine Workers of
America, District No. 21, and each local union and each
individual defendant filed a separate answer. The answers deny all the averments of the complaint. The trial
began on October 24, 1917, and a verdict and judgment
were entered on November 22, following. The evidence
is very voluminous, covering more than 3,000 printed
pages.
Mr. William A. Glasgow, Jr., with whom Mr. Charles
E. Hughes, Mr. Henry Warrum, Mr. G. L. Grant and Mr.
Allen S. Hubbard were on the briefs, for plaintiffs in
error.1
I. The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals was
reviewable here. Jud. Code, § 128.
II. The court below erred in holding that the action
could be brought, process had and judgment recovered
against unincorporated labor unions.
A group of individuals is not liable to be sued in tort
unless it constitutes a person in law.
It is clearly established that the members of an unincorporated association may not be sued in the name of
the association. Oxley Stave Co. v. Coopers International Union, 72 Fed. 695; Hopkins v. Oxley Stave Co.,
83 Fed. 912; American Steel Co. v. Wire Drawers Union,
90 Fed. 598; Dowd v. United Mine Workers of America,
235 Fed. 1.
'At the former hearing the case was argued by Mr. Charles R.
Hughes, on behalf of the plaintiffs in error.

UNITED MINE WORKERS v. CORONADO CO.
344.

351

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

The very essence of the action of the State in creating
a corporation is that it brings into being a legal entity
which can be treated as such, in suing and being sued.
It is well settled that it must appear that an association,
if it is not a corporation, has received by appropriate
legislation a legal status before it, or its members, may
be sued in the name of the group.
It is apparent from §§ 7 and 8 of the Sherman Act that
Congress did not attempt to provide a new remedy against
all unincorporated groups or associations. It made no
designation of officers or agents upon whom process might
be served. It made no provision as to the effect of the
judgment to be recovered, or limiting execution thereon
to common property or property jointly held through
group or association.
This is a penal statute; it may be enforced by criminal
prosecution; and treble damages may be awarded under
it. It is wholly inadmissible to give it a breadth which
would reach, contrary to its terms and to the principles of
the common law, every unincorporated association.
Congress defined who were to be liable. They were to
be "persons" who shall make any such contract or engage
in any such combination or conspiracy (§§ 2, 3). The
term "person," has a well-established legal significance
and an unincorporated group is not, as such, a "person."
And the extent to which any association or group might
be held liable as a "person" under the Sherman Act was
explicitly defined in § 8. Congress included "corporations and associations existing under or authorized by the
laws of either the United States, the laws of any of the
Territories, the laws of any State, or the laws of any foreign country." It was'not the privilege of the court
below to go beyond these terms in the search of any supposed policy. The question was not, who should be
exempted from liability, but who were made liable. The
policy of the statute must be found in its terms. United

352

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

259 U. S.

States v. Wiltberger, 5 Wheat. 76, 96; Hadden v. The
Collector, 5 Wall. 107, 111-112.
It may be said that in some cases associations have
been joined with the individuals and corporations comprising the association in suits under the Sherman Act,
but these have been equity suits for injunction in which
the individuals and corporations which were members of
the association were parties. In Eastern States Retail
Lumber Dealers' Association v. United States, 234 U. S.
600, also an injunction suit, it does not appear that the
point was raised.
Had Congress stopped with the words "corporations
and associations," the rule noscitur a sociis would apply,
and the term ' associations" would be taken to mean
such organizations as those to which legislation had given
a legal status as quasi corporations. But the added words,
saying explicitly what sort of associations were meant,
relieve the question of doubt. .eliotv. Freeman, 220
U. S.178.
The expression "existing under or authorized by the
laws" of the United States or of any State should appropriately be taken to refer to statutes. Abbott's Law
Dictionary, Title "Law," subdiv. 3; Swift v. Tyson, 16
Pet. 1, 18. Otherwise, the clause would mean that associations that were unlawful were not within the pur-view of the section. Moreover, if Congress had intended
to refer simply to unincorporated associations, without
reference to any legislation which had given them the
status of persons, that is to any lawful association whatever, it would not have added the last clause. The construction for which the plaintiffs contend makes the words
"existing under or authorized l y the laws of either the
United States," etc., surplusage.
The provision of § 7, that the action shall be brought
"in the district in which the defendant resides or is
found," is appropriate if the word " a ssoc iation" is used

UNITED MINE WORKERS v. CORONADO CO. 353
344.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

as defined in § 8, but is inapposite if it is sought to give it
the breadth for which the plaintiffs contend.
Whatever may be said of the Taff Vale Case, [1901]
A. C. 426, as a matter of statutory construction (and it
may here be noted that the effect of the decision was
swept away by Parliament five years later, 6 Edw. VII,
c. 47, § 4, subsec. 1; see Vacher & Sons, Limited, v. London Society of Compositors, [1913] A. C. 107), it certainly forms no precedent for a construction of §§ 7 and 8
of the Sherman Act. By that act, Congress did not attempt to give labor unions a status which they did not
have before.
No one doubts that the Sherman Act applies to the
members of a labor union as well as to business men, but
the act has its appropriate application when actions are
brought against the persons guilty of combination in
accordance with the familiar principles of the common
law.
III. Recovery against the United Mine Workers of
America was entirely unwarranted by the evidence.
(a) A labor union, as such, is not within the Sherman
Act. The fact that a labor union has a membership
throughout the country does not bring it within the act.
Gompers v. Bucks Siove & Range Co., 221 U. S. 418;
Clayton Act, § 6.
The miners were thus entitled to organize, and through
organization to seek the amelioration of the condition of
miners in the various mines throughout the country and
to pursue this end by all lawful means.
(b) The constitution of the United Mine Workers of
America is the agreement of membership. It fixes the
terms upon which these miners unite and contribute to
the funds which the judgment below turns over to the
plaintiffs. The constitution and the objects of the association are entirely lawful. Hitchman Coal & Coke Co. v.
Mitchell, 245 U. S. 229, 253, 267.

354

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

259 U.S.

The constitution deals with strikes and classifies them
as follows: (1) Where the major portion of the members
of a district are to be involved; (2) where the strike is
in an unorganized field; (3) where the strike is in an
organized field, but is to be financed by the International
Union; and (4) where the strike is in an organized field
and is not to be financed by the International Union. In
the first three cases, the sanction of an international convention or of the international executive board must be
procured before a strike may be called. In the last case,
the district is permitted to call a strike upon its own
responsibility.
It is urged by the plaintiffs that the district, and the
members of local unions, in the case of a local strike conducted on their own responsibility and without the sanction of the International Association, are the agents of
the Association in calling and conducting the strike. But
this is simply to ignore the definitive words of the section above quoted, "on their own responsibility." This
is the formal and definitive agreement of all the members
of the Association with each other. It is an agreement to
the effect that if some of the members locally go on
strike on their own account, such a strike shall be on
their own account, and that the other members shall not
be in any way responsible therefor. Responsibility must
rest upon facts of authorization and representation, which
here are absolutely negatived. The insertion of this provision had a very clear purpose, for the context shows
that the important point of a financial support for a
district engaged in a strike was involved, and it was made
clear that the International Association could not be
called upon for any support for a strike unless it was
sanctioned, and that if a district ordered a strike, without
the authority of the Association, the latter assumed no
responsibility of any sort with respect to it. Denaby &
Cadeby Main Collieriesv. Yorkshire Miners' Association,
[1906] A. C. 384.

UNITED MINE WORKERS v. CORONADO CO.
344.

355

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

Further, under the constitution of the Association, the
president had no authority to sanction a strike without
the action of the international executive board.
The Association did not have control over the district
where the district went ahead on its own responsibility.
By the express provision of the constitution, to that extent there was local autonomy. The control which the
Association was entitled to exert was control according
to the terms of the constitution of the Association, and
not otherwise.
It is wholly untenable to say that, when a local union
acts on its own responsibility and the Association does
not sanction its action, the Association must resort to
expulsion to save itself from liability.
(c) The United Mine Workers of America did not authorize, participate in, or ratify the alleged acts committed in Arkansas by reason of which the recovery of
damages was allowed. The disturbances were local, arising from local grievances, caused entirely by local conditions.
In any view, the controlling fact is that no board or
officer of the International Association participated in
any of these acts or authorized any of them at any of
the mines. If a distinction between a "lock-out" and
a "strike" be ignored, and it be assumed that there were
strikes at all the mines in question, still none of these
strikes, and none of the acts in question, was authorized
or sanctioned by the Association. Moreover, nothing is
better settled than that a strike is not in itself unlawful,
and the question here is the responsibility for particular
acts that were not any necessary part of a strike.
It is not enough to show that some members of the
union committed acts of violence. Even in cases of conspiracy, where an illegal combination is found to exist,
members are not liable for acts not within the scope of

356

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

259 U. S.

the illegal agreement. Commonwealth v. Campbell, 7
Allen, 541, 544; Pettibone v. United States, 148 U. S.
197, 207. And certainly there is no principle better established than that, where a number of persons combine
to achieve a lawful end by lawful means, and certain persons of the association combine to achieve that same end
by unlawful means, the whole association is not responsible for the unlawful acts of the fev members. Commonwealth v. Hunt, 4 Metc. 111, 129; United States v. Kane,
23 Fed. 748; Lawlor v. Loewe, 187 Fed. 522; 223 U. S.
729; 235 U. S. 534, 535; Eagle Glass & Mfg. Co. v. Rowe,
245 U. S. 275; 219 Fed. 719, 720, 721. Certainly, the
law does not require less proof to connect individual
members of a union with the tortious acts of other members in this action for tripl6 damages under the Sherman
Act than it does in an application for an injunction on
ordinary equitable grounds, such as was considered in
the Eagle Glass Co. Case.
The liability of the International Association should be
tested by the question whether an individual miner, a
member of the Association living in Pennsylvania, could
be sent to jail for violation of the Anti-Trust Act because
of the conduct of these Arkansas miners and his alleged
connection with them. The gist of the action under § 7 is
the alleged combination in restraint of trade. The individual miners, members of the International Union, are
the persons who, it is claimed, constitute this combination.
Unless these miners located in Pennsylvania, Ohio, Indiana and other States, as well as in Arkansas, have confederated together to restrain by unlawful means interstate trade and commerce, there is no basis for the
judgment against the Association. Pattersonv. United
States, 222 Fed. 599. Surely, a person may not be convicted of participation in a criminal conspiracy because
he fails to set himself up as a court of justice to try and
discipline persons who are claimed to have violated the
criminal law,

UNITED MINE WORKERS v. CORONADO CO.
344.

357

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

(d) Notwithstanding the provisions of the constitution of the International Association, and notwithstanding that it did not authorize, participate in or sanction
either the "strike" or the alleged wrongful acts in Arkansas, liability has been predicated on the view that these
acts in Arkansas were committed in carrying out the
"aims, objects and purposes" of the national organization. Such a view, we submit, is wholly without warrant
and is based upon a misconstruction of the policy of
the Association.
IV. The verdict is also unsustainable with respect to
District No. 21. Entirely apart from the relation of the
District to the strike, the officers of the District were
without authority to bind the membership of the district
organization, the miners of Texas, Oklahoma and Arkansas, so as to impose liability for the alleged illegal acts in
which the members had not participated. And the same
is true with respect to the local unions so far as their
members had not authorized the acts in question.
V. The facts proved at the trial did not justify a recovery against any of the defendants under the Sherman
Act. There was no proof of any combination or conspiracy in restraint of interstate commerce.
This action is to recover damages for particular acts
alleged to have been committed by certain individuals
in Arkansas. What were these acts? Without now going into the questions which were contested at the trial,
with respect to provocation and incitement, the most that
can be said from the standpoint of the plaintiffs is that
certain individuals committed trespasses and destroyed
property, thus inflicting the damage sought to be recovered.
We start then with these individuals. Certainly, it
cannot be said that their conduct, separately considered,
had any such direct relation to interstate commerce as
would justify an action against them under the Sherman

358

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

259 U. S.

Act. The fact that a factory or a mine produces commodities, which are the subject of interstate trade, of
course does not make the destruction of the factory or
mine a matter of federal cognizance under the Commerce
Clause.
Again, if it were assumed that several persons combined
to impair or destroy a factory or mine at which commodities were produced which would go in interstate commerce,
still that fact alone would not support a finding of a
combination or conspiracy in restraint of interstate commerce. The fundamental question, recognized as of vital
importance in the exercise of the important jurisdiction
of this court in defining the scope of the Commerce Clause
and the validity and application of legislation under that
clause, is whether the conduct sought to be regulated has
direct or indirect relation to interstate commerce. Were
it not for this test of direct or indirect relation, the court
would be at sea without chart or compass. If whatever
may be deemed to have an indirect or consequential relation to, or effect upon, interstate commerce were regarded
as being within the Commerce Clause, it would be difficult
to find any activity of importance in any community thai
fell without it. Such a construction of the Constitution
would destroy the Constitution itself. Difficult as may be
the application of the test in certain cases, there is no
difficulty in apprehending the test itself. To hold .that
merely because a mine produces coal, which if produced
and sold would enter into interstate commerce, an injury
to the mine is interference with interstate commerce cognizable by Congress, is to ignore the distinction which
underlies countless decisions of this court and to establish a centralized power in the Federal Government which
would know no limitation with respect to all the activities
which precede interstate commerce,-activities not only
relating to production but to all the manifold affairs
which affect the productive capacity of human beings.

UNITED MINE WORKERS v. CORONADO CO.
344.

359

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

Hopkins v. United States, 171 U. S. 578, 592; United
States v. Patten, 187 Fed. 664, 671; 226 U. S. 525, 542.
The mining of coal is not interstate commerce and a
mine is not an instrumentality of interstate commerce,
Kidd v. Pearson, 128 U. S. 1, 21; and the fact that an
article was manufactured for export to another State
does not make it an article of interstate commerce within
the meaning of the Constitution. Coe v. Errol, 116
U. S. 517.
And the fact that a commodity might come into interstate commerce does not preclude the exercise of the police power of the State so as to prevent its manufacture,
if such prevention is otherwise within the police power
of the State. Kidd v. Pearson,supra.
An injury to a miner in mining coal is not an injury to
interstate commerce and is not an injury to an instrumentality of interstate commerce. Delaware, Lackawanna & Western R. R. Co. v. Yurkonis, 238 U. S. 439;
Hammer v. Dagenhart,247 U. S. 251, 272.
The thought of the individuals who committed the
alleged wrongs, if the testimony introduced by the plaintiffs be accepted, was on the mining and the men who
were mining and the conditions of work. It was not upon
commerce, but on production. If it be assumed that the
purpose was to prevent certain men, non-union men, from
working, it was still the prevention of work by these men
that they had in mind.
Of course, a finding of conspiracy or combination in
restraint of interstate commerce, that being the gist of
the action, must be supported by the sort of proof that
will sustain a criminal prosecution or an action- for treble
damages. The conspiracy must be established as a fact
over and above any and all evidence of injury to property
used in production, or of intent to injure such property,
or of combination for that purpose.
The objects of the International Association have no
direct relation to interstate commerce; and the fact that

860

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

259 U.S.

they relate to employment in production in many mines,
or to mines in several States, does not alter their essential
character. Their legal and constitutional aspect is the
same with respect to work in mines in a dozen States, as
it is with respect to work in one mine.
It may be said that the constitution of the Association
contemplated strikes. But a strike, as such, in a mine, or
in a factory, while it may affect production, has no direct
relation to interstate commerce. The constitution of the
Association, in its provisions relating to strikes, said nothing of boycotts or of anything having direct relation to
trade, interstate or otherwise.
Again, the effort to "unionize" does not imply any
conduct having direct relation to interstate commerce.
The number of instances involving the same policy does
not affect the nature of that policy in relation to interstate
commerce, and it is necessary to find something more
than the mere policy of "unionizing," or of strikes, or of
refusal to work with non-union men, or of refusal to mine
coal With non-union men, in order to create a combination
or conspiracy in restraint of interstate commerce.
The prevention of the mining of coal by non-union men
may, of course, be brought about by" unionizing" a mine.
This can be accomplished by entirely lawful means, and
illegal purpose or illegality of means is not to be presupposed but requires proof. Apart from this, the prevention of mining coal by non-union men, as such, is not
an interference with interstate commerce in the proper
sense. When the intent and purpose have relation simply
to hours, wages and conditions of production, the agreement or combination relates to production and not to
interstate commerce, the effect of the latter, if it exists,
being merely incidental.
The mere act of conference between operators and
miners, and the agreements for wages, etc., which were
reached, we must assume -to be unobjectionable. There

UNITED MINE WORKERS v. CORONADO CO.
344.

361

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

has been no finding that the operators and the miners
entered into a conspiracy in restraint of interstate

commerce.
Statements in speeches made at these conferences have
been introduced for the purpose of showing that there
was a conspiracy or combination, in which the International Association was engaged, in restraint of interstate
commerce. This sort of evidence is a very frail reliance
when it is sought to hold hundreds of thousands of members of an association, with expressed purposes which are
entirely lawful and laudable, as being guilty of a violation of the criminal law. It is true that the individuals
at these conferences were representatives or delegates, but
it does not follow that all the members were bound by
anything a delegate in the heat of controversy might say.
But if these utterances are examined, they fall far short
of showing the intent and purposes which are here
ascribed.
There is nothing to show that the local unions and District No. 21 had engaged in any combination or conspiracy in restraint of interstate commerce. The reasoning
that we have employed above also applies to these associations.
VI. The District Court erred in its instructions to the
jury.
VII. There was a misjoinder of plaintiffs and of their
causes of action, the complaint failing to show any community of interest in the plaintiffs or any joint cause of
action.
To entitle plaintiffs to join in an action for damages
they must have a joint legal interest in the property affected and in the damages sought to be recovered.
1 Chitty's Pleadings, p. 64; Oliver v. Alexander, 6 Pet.
143, 145; Yeaton v. Lenox, 8 Pet. 123; Bertrand v. Byrd,
5 Ark. 651; Harrisv. Preston, 10 Ark. 201. This rule is
fundamental and prevails in States, of which Arkansas is

362

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

259 U. S.

one, that have adopted the reform procedure. Pomeroy,
Code Remedies, § 231; Kirby's Ark. Digest, § 6005; Johnson v. Ditlinger, 140 Ark. 509.
It is said, however, that if separate actions had been
brought, they could have been consolidated under the
Arkansas Consolidation Act. Kirby's Digest, § 6083-a.
This is a plain copy of the federal statute of consolidation.
Rev. Stats., § 921; Jud. Code, § 1. Where a State adopts
a statute that has been interpreted in other jurisdictions,
it presumptively adopts the interpretation which has
there been accorded it. This would seem to be the more
imperative where the statute adopted has operated and
determined the practice in courts having concurrent jurisdiction with the courts of the adopting State. The federal statute has been uniformly interpreted by the federal courts as leaving the right to order consolidation
wholly to the discretion of the court. Mutual Life Insurance Co. v. Hillmon, 145 U. S. 285, 292; Toledo &c. R. R.
Co. v. Continental Trust Co., 95 Fed. 497, 506. In construing the Arkansas act, the courts of that State, however, have declared themselves untrammeled by this interpretation of this court. Fidelity-PhenixInsurance Co.
v. Friedman, 117 Ark. 71. The right exercised by the
state court to indulge in new experiments in procedure
should not be superior to the right of the federal court
to follow its own long-established practice. Under the
Federal Conformity Act, conformance to -the practice
adopted by the Arkansas courts is neither required nor
justified on the part of the federal courts. 2 Bates, Federal Procedure and Law, p. 680, § 971; Mutual Life Insurance Co. v. Hillmon, supra; Mexican Central Ry. Co.
v. Pinkney, 149 U. S. 194; Shepard v. Adams, 168 U. S.
618; Hanks Dental Association v. International Tooth
Crown Co., 194 U. S. 303, 310.
The alleged Arkansas rule and the right asserted by
plaintiffs is furthermore in antagonism to the doctrine

UNITED MINE WORKERS v. CORONADO CO.
344.

363

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

that, after consolidation, the causes of action remain distinct and require separate verdicts and judgments. Mutual Life Insurance Co. v. Hillmon, 145 U. S. 285. Even
the practice in Arkansas does not authorize this verdict.
Southern Anthracite Coat Co. v. Thrasher, 93 Ark. 140,
143; Lumiansky v. Tessier, 213 Mass. 182, 188.
Moreover, the Federal Anti-Trust Acts provide a special proceeding, lying only within the jurisdiction of the
federal courts, and, to the extent they indicate the practice to be followed in actions to recover damages, must
govern regardless of procedure in the state courts. Section 7 of the Sherman Act provides that "any person
who shall be injured in his business or property . . .
may sue therefor." The clear and necessary implication
is that each person must bring his suit alone. See 21
Cong. Rec., 3149, 3151.
No authority in law has been offered or can be found
for the proposition that because receivers were appointed
for these nine corporations in one suit and in one decree,
their separate causes of action thereby became joint. 23
Am. & Eng. Encyc. of Law, 1073; High on Receivers,
4th ed., § 204.
Finally, evdn upon the assumption that divers plaintiffs with separate demands under the Sherman Act may
join in suing, it appears from the complaint that the five
non-operating companies are wholly without rights of
action.
The Arkansas decisions merely hold that where a trial
court has erroneously failed to grant a defendant's motion to strike out because of a misjoinder, the Supreme
Court will not reverse the judgment, if it appears that
the separate causes, if they had been brought separately,
could have been consolidated. Manifestly, the Conformity Act does not require a federal court to follow the decisions of the Arkansas courts as to what they conceive
to be harmless error or similar questions.

364

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

259 U. S.

VIII. The orders requiring the unincorporated labor
unions and their officers to produce their books and documents, for the purpose of proving the officers and members of these unions guilty of the alleged criminal conspiracy, were violative of their rights under the Fourth
and Fifth Amendments. American Banana Co. v. United
Fruit Co., 153 Fed. 943. The defendant unions not be-

ing incorporated, Hale v. Henkel, 201 U. S. 43, has no
application.
Mr. Henry S. Drinker,Jr., and Mr. James B. McDonough, with whom Mr. Roger B. Hull was on the brief, for
defendants in error.
The crucial question is whether a labor union is liable,
under the Sherman Anti-Trust Act, for damages inflicted
by its duly constituted officers and representatives, in the.
furtherance of its collective aims and purposes, in the
course of a combination and conspiracy in restraint of
interstate commerce.
Although the union has a membership of upwards of
400,000 men, bound together by a constitution to carry
out its objects, which objects constitute the sole business
and livelihood of its members; although it has an organization as highly centralized as if would be possible to
create, with innumerable district and local branches
chartered and created by the main organization to carry
on its activities and do its bidding and subject to discipline or annulment by it for refusal so to do; although it
has vast associate funds delegated to its officers to be used
in carrying on its business, and which, as in the present
case, may be employed solely by unlawful means and with
an unlawful purpose to crush those who stand in its way;
nevertheless, it is claimed, these same vast funds cannot
be made to pay for the damage which they have caused,
solely because the union has not chosen to incorporate.
In case of an association of this type, what the parties
have actually done and what powers they have actually

UNITED MINE WORKERS v. CORONADO CO.
344.

365

Argument for Defendants in Error.

assumed and exercised in the management of the organization are even more important than what their constitution says.
I. The unions were subject to be sued as associations,
under the Sherman Act.
Loewe v. Lawlor, 208 U. S. 274, has settled the question that, when Congress forbade every combination or
conspiracy in restraint of interstate commerce, it meant
"every" such combination.
When Congress expressly included in its definition of
the "person" against whom suit might be brought, corporations or associations existing under or authorized by
state or federal laws, it obviously intended to make the
test of liability~not the volition of the parties liable or the
ingenuity of the attorneys who organized them in a particular form of association, but the actual existence of
such an association in a form sufficiently tangible to commit a violation of this statute in its associate capacity.
So far as we know, no question has ever been raised
of the propriety of joining, as a party defendant to such
suits by the United States, any unincorporated association which itself constituted the combination violating
the law. Indeed, the decisions of this court in two of the
leading Anti-Trust cases bear the names of unincorporated associations,---United States v. Trans-Missouri
Freight Association, 166 U. S. 290, and United States v.
Joint Traffic Association, 171 U. S. 505. One of the Circuit Court decisions, cited with approval by this court in
the Danbury Hatters Case, 208 U. S. 274, was United
States v. Workingmen's Amalgamated Council, 54
Fed. 994.
Under § 5 of the Clayton Act the decree of the court
in such a case would prima facie bind such defendant in
a subsequent civil suit. Section 8 of the Sherman Act
does not use the words "organized under," but the
broader phrase "authorized by." It will be further noted,

366

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

259 U. S.

that the language is not "authorized by and existing
under," but "existing under or authorized by."
Associations may be of three types: (1) A quasi-corporation, organized pursuant to a statute, to which it
owes its powers and its very existence; (2) an association formed at common law but with the express sanction of a statute authorizing it so to be formed; (3) an
association formed at common law which, while not expressly authorized by statute, yet is recognized by statute as properly existing and is given statutory rights and
benefits not enjoyed at common law. Eliot v. Freeman,
220 U. S. 178.
In practically every State in the United States, including all of the States in which the United Mine Workers
has active district branches, there are statutes distinctly
recognizing trades unions as existing thereunder, and giving them a standing and protection in connection with
their associate rights and interests, and the most noticeable instance of statutory recognition is the provision in
§ 6 of the Clayton Act, which might well be said to constitute a direct authorization by Congress of the organization and continued existence of labor unions,-certainly
a distinct recognition that such associations were among
those "existing under the laws of the United States,"
within the meaning of the Sherman Act.
Congressional recognition of the existence of trades
unions similar to that by the Clayton Act, as well as their
liability to prosecution as such by the United States for
violation of the Sherman Act, is found in the rider to the
Appropriation Acts of 1913, 1914 and 1915, 38 Stat. 53,
652, 866. Also the National Trades Union Act of June
29, 1886, 24 Stat. 86.
It may be said that since the Trades Union Act, § 2,
made incorporated unions liable to suit in their corporate
name, this implied an absence of such liability in a union
which was not incorporated. As applied to an unincorpo-

UNITED MINE WORKERS v. CORONADO CO.
344.

367

Argument for Defendants in Error.

rated union between 1886 and July 2, 1890, there might
be something in this argument; indeed, we make no
claim that at common law an unincorporated association
is liable to suit in its associate name. The Sherman Act,
however, made an advance on the common law. Although
it did not purport to make labor unions, or any other
unincorporated associations, subject to suit in all legal
proceedings, it did render such associations liable, in their
associate capacity, to suit for the commission of the particular offense forbidden by the act.
All that is necessary to hold an association liable for
damages under the Sherman Act is to show its existence
in some form sufficiently tangible to enable the court by
its process to reach its funds or property. Federal and
state statutes recognizing its existence and giving it special rights merely make its liability clearer. It can not
take advantage of its associate and combined existence to
harm other people in the manner forbidden by the Sherman Act, and use its associate funds for that purpose,
and not at the same time have those same associate funds
subject to the provisions of that statute.
II. The procedure employed in bringing defendants
into court was derived by clear and necessary implication
from the Sherman and Clayton Acts, and is that prescribed by the Arkansas Code, Kirby & Castle's Digest,
§ 7446, permitting one or more parties to be sued for all
where the question is one of common or general interest
and the parties very numerous. See Branson v. Industrial Workers of the World, 30 Nev. 270; Martin, Modem
Law of Labor Unions, § 218; St. Germain v. Bakery,
&c., Union, 97 Wash. 282; Penny v. Central Coal Co.,
138 Fed. 769; Tinker v. Powell, 23 Wyo. 352.
Both the National Organization and District No. 21
moved to dismiss the first writ of error from the Circuit
Court of Appeals, and afterwards answered in the District
Court, which in effect amounted to a general appearance

368

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

259 U. S.

and a waiver of any defect of process. Ferguson v. Carr,
85 Ark. 246; Dunbar v. Bell, 90 Ark. 316; Lowry v. Tile
Mantel Association, 98 Fed. 817.
While the defendant has made frequent objections on
the ground that it was not an entity or suable under the
Sherman Act, the record does not disclose that it has ever
objected to the service of process on it in the name of its
representatives as prescribed by the Arkansas Code.
We do not contend that the judgment rendered below
is a personal judgment against the individual members
of the United Mine Workers of America'or binds the
real estate of a miner in California or Pennsylvania who
had no actual part in the Prairie Creek strike and who is
not specifically named as a defendant in this suit.
The provision in the Arkansas Code merely removes
the difficulty of getting the union into court in its associate capacity. Whether, as we believe, it is suable in
its associate name, or whether it should be sued in the
names of its officers as its representatives, is immaterial,
since both are named in the writ and caption in the
present case. The Code of Procedure of Arkansas merely
applies the long-standing rule in equity cases to cases
arising at common law. The cases cited by the other side
are all actions at common law in jurisdictions where the
procedure had not been modified by statute so as to permit
a suit against a large association in the name of certain
representatives.
III. The United Mine Workers of America, acting
through its national officers and its official journal, as well
as by its duly constituted district and local branch agencies and officers, authorized, caused, participated in, encouraged, ratified and approved the destruction of the
business and property of defendants in error.
In the constitution of this national body there is obviously no attempt to limit its liability to third parties,
where strikes are ordered by district branches, but merely

UNITED MINE WORKERS v. CORONADO CO.
344.

369

Argument for Defendants in Error.

to provide that, as between the principal and the agent,
the latter could expect no funds other than those collected from the district unless the national executive
board sanctioned the strike.
Even if the constitution had required the sanction of
the executive board for the institution of a local strike,
such, sanction was amply evident. The constitution,
however, gave specific authority to District No. 21 to
order such a strike on its own initiative. Instead of limiting the authority and discretion of the districts, as
plaintiffs in error contend, this provision clearly enlarges
it. Distinguishing, Denaby & Cadeby Main Collieries,
Ltd. v. Yorkshire Miners Association [1906], A. C. 384.
It affirmatively appears in the case at bar that the association granted benefits to the strikers. The treasurer's
report shows payments to the local unions participating
in this strike, of more than $20,000, paid from the defense fund, which under the. constitution can be used
only for this purpose.
It clearly appears that the union, through its officers,
its executive board, its official journal and by vote of
all the delegates at its national convention, officially
recognized that the destruction of plaintiffs' property and
business had been brought about by the union, through
its officers, members and representatives, in order to carry
out its aims, objects and purposes, and that it accepted
the benefit to the union from the suppression of the open
shop mine and ratified the whole proceedings.
A number of English cases, decided between the decision in Taff Vale Ry. Co. v. Amalgamated Society of
Railway Servants [1901], A. C. 426, and the passage of
the act of Parliament which annulled it, are instructive
on the question of the liability of the national union for
the acts of its district and local branches. Giblan v.
National Amalgamated Laborers' Union [1903], 2 K. B.
600; Mackendrick v. National Union of Dock Laborers,

370

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

259 U. S.

48 Scot. L. Rep. 17. See also Spaulding v. Evenson, 149
Fed. 913; 150 Fed. 517; United States v. American Co.,
263 Fed. 147, 152; Nederlandsch S. M. v. Stevedore's
Society, 265 Fed. 397.
This court has recognized the development of the law
in the extension of corporate liability for tortious acts,
which, while not strictly within the corporate power, or
within the express authority of the agent who committed
them, were within the scope of the agent's employment,
and were done on behalf of and for the benefit of the
principal, even though against its express orders. Salt
Lake City v. Hollister,118 U. S. 256, 260; Denver & Rio
Grande Ry. Co. v. Harris,122 U. S. 597; Washington Gas
Light Co. v. Lansden, 172 U. S. 534, 544; New York
Central R. R. Co. v. United States, 212 U. S. 481, 492;
JoplinMercantile Co. v. United States, 213 Fed. 926; In
re Grand Union Co., 219 Fed. 353, 363; United States v.
Nearing, 252 Fed. 223.
The evidence in this case sustains the liability of the
union on four distinct grounds:
(1) The constitution authorized the district to call this
strike. Plaintiffs offered to prove that the National Organization, both through its convention proceedings, and
through editorials and articles in its official journal, for
years before 1914, had not only encouraged its membership to suppress open shop operations, but by recounting,
often with express approval, usually without disapproval,
and always without disciplinary action, illegal methods
used in other districts to accomplish this result, had sanctioned the use of such methods in carrying on its strikes.
The ruling excluding this evidence was clearly erroneous,
and as it was made in the instance of defendants, they
clearly cannot now base any contention on the absence
of such evidence in the record. Missouri, K. & T. Ry. Co.
v. Elliott, 102 Fed. 96, 103. But there was other evidence,
admitted, to the same effect.

UNITED MINE WORKERS v. CORONADO CO.
344.

371

Argument for Defendants in Error.

(2) The Association, through its executive board, its
president and its official journal, actively encouraged and
thus participated in the illegal proceedings at Prairie
Creek, while these proceedings were going on.
(3) The Association, through its official journal and by
resolutions of its executive board and of the convention
of all its delegates, expressly and officially recognized that
the active participants in the Prairie Creek affair had
acted as its representatives and in its behalf in carrying
out its aims, objects and purposes.
(4) The failure by the union to express its official disapproval, or to exercise the control which it had over the
district and local branches, officers and members, and its
failure to take steps to discipline them and thus prevent
a recurrence of the same thing in other fields, was of itself
evidence both of ratification and that what had been done
was with the authority and approval bf the union.
If under the law no trade union or no union leader
could be held responsible for damage in labor disputes
without direct evidence that it or he personally incited
the particular disturbances which gave rise to the trouble,
labor leaders would be for all practical purposes beyond
the reach of the law. The damage done in labor disputes is caused for the most part by entirely irresponsible
parties, members of the union or their sympathizers,
many of whom at the time are unrestrainable by their
leaders, even if the latter wished to restrain them.
Under the law the test of the responsibility of the
union and of the higher officials thereof, for activities of
the members in a labor dispute, is gauged not only by
whether or not the union officials specifically incited the
particular activities, but by a broader test, viz.: Did the
union officials and union organization set in motion the
machinery which in the natural course of events and
according to previous experience would lead to the injurious results?

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Defendafits in Error.

259 U. S.

Where a union declares or conducts a strike in which
injury to property is done by its members or by those
acting in conjunction with them, the union and its officers will be held responsible, unless the damage done is
such as might not readily be foreseen by them when they
set in motion the forces which have caused it, and unless,
also, as soon as they learn of the illegal acts, whether
during their commission or after the damage has been
done, they clearly show their good faith and disapproval
of what has happened, not merely by words but by actions. Loewe v. Lawlor, 208 U. S. 274; Southern Ry. Co.
v. Machinists Local Union, 111 Fed. 49; Allis-Chalmers
Co. v. Reliable Lodge, 111 Fed. 264; Union Pacific R. R.
Co. v. Ruef, 120 Fed. 102; Allis-Chalmers Co. v. Iron
Molders Union, 150 Fed. 155; Phillips Sheet & Tin Plate
Co. v. Amalgamated Association of Iron, Steel & Tin
Workers, 208 Fed.'335; Alaska S. S. Co. v. International
Longshoremen's Association, 236 Fed. 964; Kroger Co.
v. Retail Clerks' InternationalProtective Assn., 250. Fed.
890, 896. See also Franklin Union v. People, 220 Ill.
355; Illinois Central R. R. Co. v. InternationalAssociation of Machinists, 190 Fed. 910; Stephens v. Ohio State
Telephone Co., 240 Fed. 759, 778; Niles-Bement Ca. v.
Iron Moulders Union, 246 Fed. 851, 863-864.
IV. The destruction of the business and property of
defendants in error was accomplished in the course of
an unlawful combination and conspiracy in restraint of
interstate commerce.
The motive of the unionists may have been to benefit
their craft by unionizing all the mines of the country;
their immediate purpose was to prevent plaintiffs from
shipping their coal to other States in competition with
that there mined with union labor.
The conspirators must be held to have intended the
necessary and direct consequences of their acts. United
State$ v. Patten, 226 U. S. 525. Furthermore, it is not

UNITED MINE WORKERS v. CORONADO CO.
344.

373

Argument for Defendants in Error.

the specific intent of the immediate participants which
is important, but the collective intent, the intent of the
association which inspired, instigated and conducted the
whole affair.
In cases of this kind it is the association that is the
essence of the illegal combination. The immediate participants are usually but the ignorant tools, often having
no specific intent but a blind rage inspired by the brains
of the association higher up.
In the Knight Case, 156 U. S. 1, there was no evidence
of a specific intention to restrain interstate commerce or
to prevent other people from engaging therein. The
question was simply whether the bare acquisition under
one control of a number of competing sugar plants, without evidence of illegal means used or of a purpose to lay
any plant idle, in itself amounted to an attempt at a
monopoly or a combination in restraint of trade.
If in that case it had appeared, as it did in Pennsylvania Sugar Refining Co. v. American Sugar Refining
Co., 166 Fed. 254, in Shawnee Compress Co. v. Anderson,
209 U. S. 423, or in United States v. Reading Co., 226
U. S. 324, that the purpose was to close the plants up or
to prevent them from competing with the defendant, the
court which decided the Knight Case would certainly
have held the combination illegal. Even so, the case
would not attain the flagrancy of "the class of restraints
of trade aimed at compelling third parties and strangers
involuntarily not to engage in the course of trade except on conditions that the combination imposes."
Loewe v. Lawlor, 208 U. S. 274. It is in the latter class
that the combination here involved falls. Where, as
here, it is conclusively shown that the purpose of the
illegal acts was to prevent shipment of commodities from
one State to another, then every means to attain that
result is a direct and unreasonable interference. Nash v.
United States, 229 U. S. 373.

374

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

259 U. S.

The fact that coal mining is not interstate commerce in
no way proves that the destruction of a coal mine for
the purpose of restraining interstate commerce does not
have that effect.
Ever since the decision in Welton v. Missouri, 91 U. S.
275, 282, it has been settled that a state statute discriminating against articles which have come from other States
or are destined thereto, is unconstitutional, even though
it be of a nature which would bring it, but for the discrimination, within the recognized power of the State. In
such cases the attempted discrimination shows a conclusive intent by the State to restrain interstate commerce,
and, such intent being shown, every restraint thereby
produced is held to be direct and unreasonable. See also
Darnell & Son Co. v. Memphis, 208 U. S. 113; In re Debs,
158 U. S. 564, 600.
The facts proved in the case at bar show beyond ques-.
tion a combination and conspiracy in restraint of interstate commerce,-because the acts done so necessarily
produced that result that no proof of specific intent was
necessary; and because such specific intent was conclusively proved.
V. There was no error in the joinder of parties or
causes of action. Arkansas Laws, 1905, p. 798; St. Louis
&c. R. R. Co. v. Broomfield, 83 Ark. 288; Mahoney v.
Roberts, 86 Ark. 130; Southern Anthracite Coal Co. v.
Bowen, 93 Ark. 140; Fidelity Insurance Co. v. Friedman,
117 Ark. 71.
The Sherman Act left the procedure to the local law.
The Act of Congress of February 26, 1919, Jud. Code,
§ 269, directing that technical errors be disregarded, overcomes any conflict that might be claimed between the
Arkansas and federal practice.
Mutual Life Insurance Co. v. Hilimon, 145 U. S. 285,
is to be distinguished. There was apparently no Kansas
statute "existing at the time" which authorized the'pro-

UNITED MINE WORKERS v. CORONADO CO.
344.

375

Argument for Defendants in Error.

cedure in that case, and § 921, Rev. Stats., as construed
by the court, did not go so far as to authorize it. In fact
§ 819 prohibited it.
The record fails to show that defendants made any
claim to additional challenges.
When the Act of 1905, as construed by the Arkansas
Supreme Court in connection with §§ 6148, 6130, 6084,
of the Arkansas Code, extended the power and discretion
of the trial court in joinder cases, the Conformity Act,
Rev. Stats. § 914, operated to add such additional
powers to those already given the federal trial judges
under § 921. O'Connell v. Reed, 56 Fed. 536; Union
Pacific B. R. Co. v. Jones, 49 Fed. 343; Sawin v. Kenny,
93 U. S. 289; Rush v. Newman, 58 Fed. 158; Bond v.
Dustin, 112 U. S. 604; Glenn v. Sumner, 132 U. S. 152,
156; Bryson v. Gallo, 180 Fed. 70.
The case at bar is analogous to the cases arising under
the Employers' Liability Act, in which there need be
no apportionment of the damages because the law provided a method. Gulf, Colorado & Santa Fe Ry. Co. v.
McGinniss, 228 U. S. 173; Central Vermont Ry. Co. v.
White, 238 U. S. 507; Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co.
v. Kelly, 241 U. S. 485; Kansas City Southern Ry. Co.
v. Leslie, 238 U. S. 599, 603.
The contention of plaintiffs in error that these companies had independent claims, which they could have
prosecuted separately, overlooks not only the facts relative to their organization but the nature of the right of
recovery given under the Sherman Act,-for injury to
business. The good-will of all these companies was
owned and enjoyed by them jointly and was attacked
by the United Mine Workers as a joint operation.
VI. There was no error in requiring the representatives of the association to produce the books and papers
called for. Wilson v. United States, 221 U. S. 361;
Wheeler v. United States, 226 U, S. 478; Grant v. United

376

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument of Amid Curie.

259 U. S.

States, 227 U. S. 74; Johnson v. United States, 228
U.. S. 457.
Mr..Daniel Davenport,Mr. Walter GordonMerritt and
Mr. Thomas Hewes, by leave of court, filed a brief as
amici curie.
We join in the contention of the plaintiffs that the
United Mine Workers of America and the other voluntary
associations sued as defendants come within the statutory
definition of "associations existing under or authorized
by the laws of either the United States, the laws of any
of the Territories, the laws of any State . . ." Sherman
Act § 8.
The record discloses, as does also Hitchman Coal &
Coke Co.v. Mitchell, 245 U. S.229, the essential characteristics of the United Mine Workers of America: A membership of over 400,000; representative conventions like
stockholders' meetings as the source of power; the election of executive officers and an executive committee
chosen from the districts, who, in the interim between
conventions, administer its affairs and wield the enormous
strength of this body; a name in which it does business;
a central office; an official magazine; a complete system
for collecting dues; a large income and accumulated
wealth freely spent in furthering the ends of the union.
Incorporation of this body would not require it to
alter in any substantial way its presenit organization. It
is a complete working machine, having all the earmarks
of an entity entirely apart from its members, and is, so
acting.
The Sherman Law creates rights and imposes duties.
It gives to persons and the public the right to be free from
injury through unlawful restraints of trade and imposes
the duty on persons to refrain from so causing injury.
The evidence shows clearly that the defendant union, acting in its organized capacity, as an entity, can and has

UNITED MINE WORKERS v. CORONADO CO.
344.

377

Argument of Amici Curim.

successfully restrained trade and has deliberately ruined
the plaintiffs. It has common funds from which damages
can be collected. It should be made to pay. It is clearly
an entity apart from its members. Common sense declares this; economic facts declare it; the law should
declare it. Pollock, First Book of Jurisprudence, 2nd ed.,
pp. 110, 111, 114; Wald's Pollock on Contracts, 3rd ed.,
by Williston, p. 124, et seq; 15 Harv. Law Rev., p. 311;
Holland, Jurisprudence, 11th ed., pp. 80, 82, 87, 88, 91,
93, 96, 97, 335, 336, 337; Taff Vale Ry. Co. v. Amalgamated Society [1901], A. C. 426; Brent v. New Orleans,
41 La. Ann. 1098.
In Walworth v. Holt, 4 Myl. & Cr. 619, the court declared its duty "to adapt its practice and course of proceeding to the existing state of society."
It is not necessary that legal systems shall create artificial persons. The ideals and necessities of mankind
recognize them before the law. Pound, Readings on the
History and System of the C. L., p. 448, from Gareis,
Science of Law, § 15.
This statement is a convenient explanation of the theory of lost charters described by Blackstone when discussing the necessity of sovereign recognition for commonlaw juristic persons.
It is undoubtedly true that the common law for a long
time knew of but two classes of legal persons-natural
persons and artificial persons. The only artificial person
recognized was the corporation. Coke Litt., 2-a; 1 Black.
Comm., pp. 123, 467, et seq.
A careful examination of many authorities fails to disclose any particularly illuminating explanation of this
fact except this: In the early days of Rome no sovereign
permission was necessary to create a so-called corporation with its distinct feature of immortality, but later
such bodies were looked upon with extreme disfavor
unless they had been officially approved by the State.

378

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument of Amid Curim.

259 UI. S.

The State felt it necessary for self-protection to exercise
control over bodies of individuals who might acquire vast
and even rival power. And this principle, though not
at first recognized in England, likewise in time became
the law. 3 Holdsworth, History of the English Law,
pp. 362, 373; Pollock and Maitland, History of English
Law, Bk. II. c. II, § 12; Taylor, Science of Jurisprudence,
p. 580, et seq; Markby, Elements of Law, p. 82, et seq;
Lloyd v. Loaring, 6 Ves. 773.
The power of the sovereign in thus exercising control
was made effective through the passive means of refusing
to recognize, in unincorporated bodies either rights or
duties. But voluntary associations continued to grow in
number and because of their dynamic activity in society
it became absolutely essential in the administration of
justice to make them amenable to legal process, and so
the chancellor invented the representative action and
in the courts of equity for two hundred years they have
sued and been sued, have enforced rights and been compelled to respect duties. Meux v. Maltby, 2 Swan. 277;
Story, Equity Pleadings, 8th ed., § 77.
And so Congress in many statutes has included in its
definition of "persons," partnerships, companies and voluntary associations.
Therefore, it seems historically that the State began
by refusing to recognize associations, and when this did
not stop their growth, looked to their regulation and supervision by giving them juristic personality. 30 Harv.
Law Rev., 683, 684.
The inevitable revulsion of justice against the archaic
rigidity of the common-law theory is found in the opinion
of Lord Lindley in the Taff Vale Case, supra, p. 443.
The question of the right to sue an association is
purely formal and procedural. Saunders v. Adams Express Co., 71 N. J. L. 270; Mayhew & Isbell Lumber Co. v.
Valley Truck Growers' Assn., 216 S. W. 225; Taff Vale

UNITED MINE WORKERS v. CORONADO CO.
344.

379

Argument of Amici Curia.

Ry. Co. v. Amalgamated Society [1901], A. C. 426. It
does not alter duties or rights. Taff Vale Case, supra,
pp. 438, 442-445; Huth v. Humboldt, 61 Conn. 227. It
is held in some cases that unless the question of the
suability of an association is raised by demurrer it is
waived. United Mine Workers v. Cromer, 159 Ky. 605;
Agricultural Club v. Hirsch, 39 Cal. App. 433. Where
an unincorporated association appears and answers as
an entity and is named in an injunction order, it can
thereafter be punished for contempt as an entity. Barnes
& Co. v. Chicago Typographical Union, 232 Ill. 402.
Such a question cannot be raised for the first time on
appeal. Iron Molders' Union v. Allis-Chalmers Co., 166
Fed. 45. These cases are cited not with a view to claiming that defendants have waived their rights, but in
support of the contention that the question is purely a
technical one as to the forni of a writ and not one of substantive law.
Every argument of public policy is in favor of our contention. In these days when associations of employers
and associations of workmen, acting as a unit under a
constitution and by-laws, electing officers and controlling
large funds, perform practically all the functions of a
corporate entity and exercise a power for good or ill far
beyond that of individuals, there is every reason why
Congress, when dealing with their most familiar activities, should be presumed to have brought them within
the reach of civil process. Collective responsibility should
accompany collective action.- As was said in the Taff
Vale Case, if this principle be denied, injured parties are
without a remedy because of the impracticability of enforcing the law against the numerous members of associations. If any fair construction of the statute will
permit, it is the duty of the court to declare that Congress
intended to avoid such an unfortunate result. Law exists for society and the instincts of right and wrong must

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument of Amici Curim.

259 U. S.

be given effect by the courts wherever reasonable interpretation of law and law. permit. 30 Harv. Law.
Rev. 680.
The Anti-Trust Law was enacted primarily to protect
the public in the enjoyment of the benefits of the free
flow of commerce. It granted such protection against
combinations of employees (Loewe v. Lawlor, 208 U. S.
274,) as well as combinations of employers, and to that
end is presumed to have brought within the clutches of
the law voluntary associations of employers and employees, which are the commonest instrumentalities by
which restraints of trade are accomplished. When we
consider the nature of the mischief which the statute
aimed to remedy, the comprehensive remedies provided,
and the fact that an"important part of the remedy lay
in controlling associations, there is every reason to believe that the words "associations existing under or
authorized by the laws," etc., intended to include the
ordinary and familiar type of associations of employers
and employees which were largely the cause of that mischief. To reach a contrary conclusion we must declare
what today sounds amazing-that labor unions do not
exist under, and are not authorized by, the laws of any
State or of the United States. How absurd it would be
to impute to Congress an intention to include combinations of employees and to keep out of reach of civil or
criminal process those institutions which are entities in
fact and the sole agencies whereby employees restrain
trade. How strained it is to say that Congress intended
this result when it took care to enumerate all associations
existing under any state or federal law. How unwarranted such a conclusion would be when it runs counter
to the needs of society and negatives the rule that where
there is a right there is a remedy, as so conspicuously
shown in this case. The statute can be naturally construed and should be construed to remove a technical
obstacle to the administration of justice.

UNITED MINE WORKERS v. CORONADO CO.
344.

381

Opinion of the Court.

The aptness of the words used by Congress as applied
to labor unions is emphasized by the extent to which
unions have been recognized and have received benefits
and privileges through federal and state enactments.
These statutes show to what a surprising extent unions
are "associations existing under or authorized by," state
and federal laws.
The defendants contend that the words of the statute
only include associations organized under the express provision of some statute. If that were so, why did the
legislators not stop with the words "authorized by" instead of also providing for associations "existing under"
the laws? But authority as well as reason oppose the
contention that the words used in this statute are limited
to associations organized under some statute. In the construction of our revenue laws just the contrary has been
held. Eliot v. Freeman, 220 U. S. 178.
That this has been the accepted construction by the
executive and judiciary branches of the Government in
connection with the Anti-Trust Law is shown by the records in a number of the cases where judgment was entered
against voluntary associations.
See also, Hillenbrand v. Building Trade Council, 14 Oh.
Dec. (N. P.) 628; 15 Harv. Law Rev. 311; 30 id., 263.

MR. CH F JUSTICE TAFr, after stating the case, delivered the opinion of the court.
There are five principal question pressed by the plaintiffs in error here, the defendants below. The first is that
there was a misjoinder of parties plaintiff. The second is
that the United Mine Workers of America, District No.
21, United Mine Workers of America, and the local unions
made defendants, are unincorporated associations and not
subject to suit and therefore should have been dismissed
from the case on motions seasonably made. The third is
that there is no evidence to show any agency by the

382

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

United Mine Workers of America, in the conspiracy
charged or in the actual destruction of the property, and
no liability therefor. The fourth is that there is no evidence to show that the conspiracy alleged against District
No. 21 and the other defendants, was a conspiracy to restrain or monopolize interstate commerce. The fifth is
that the court erred in a supplemental charge to the jury,
which so stated the court's view of the evidence as to
amount to a mandatory direction coercing the jury into
finding the verdict which was recorded.
First. It does not seem to us that there was a misjoinder
of parties under the procedure as authorized in Arkansas.
In that State the law provides that when causes of action
of a like nature, or relative to the same question, are pending before any of its circuit or chancery courts, the court
may make such orders and rules regulating proceedings
therein as may be conformable to the usages of courts for
avoiding unnecessary costs or delay in the administration
of justice, and may consolidate said causes when it appears reasonable to do so. In Southern Anthracite Coal
Co. v. Bowen, 93 Ark. 140, the court consolidated, over
objection by defendant, two suits by two workmen who
had been injured in the same accident, and the Supreme
Court approved of this action. In Fidelity-Phenix Fire
Insurance Co. v. Friedman, 117 Ark. 71, it was held that
actions by an injured person and by a mortgagee against
eight insurance companies on eight different fire insurance
policies could be consolidated against the objection by defendants, and they were tried together. Of course, the
application of this rule of the Arkansas courts under the
Federal Conformity Act, will be qualified to prevent injury to any substantial right secured by federal law in the
trial. It is a case for the exercise of reasonable discretion
by the trial court. We cannot say that that discretion was
abused in this case. All the companies for which the plaintiffs herein are receivers, were united together in interest

UNITED MINE WORKERS v. CORONADO CO.
344.

383

Opinion of the Court.

and were largely under the control of one of the companies.
The active manager of all of them for years was Franklin
Bache. He was the first receiver, and as such the plaintiff.
There was no need for a division in the verdict of damages found, because the union of interest between the
plaintiffs involved no difficulty in the distribution among
them of the amount found. The judgment is res judicata as to all the plaintiffs, and we can find no substantial
reason for disturbing it on this ground. No difficulty
presented itself with respect to the challenge of jurors by
either side, and so far as appears there was no embarrassment to the defendants growing out of the union of the
plaintiffs. On the contrary, an examination of the evidence shows that all the witnesses for the defendants
treated the plaintiffs as a unit. They were so regarded in
business and in the neighborhood where the mines were.
Second. Were the unincorporated associations, the International Union, District No. 21, and the local unions
suable in their names? The United Mine Workers of
America is a national organization. Indeed, because it
embraces Canada it is called the International Union.
Under its constitution, it is intended to be the union of
all workmen employed in and around coal mines, coal
washers and coke ovens on the American continent. Its
declared purpose is to increase wages and improve conditions of employment of its members by legislation, conciliation, joint agreements and strikes. It demands not
more than eight hours a day of labor. The union is composed of workmen eligible to membership and is divided
into districts, sub-districts and local unions. The ultimate authority is a general convention to which delegates
selected by the members in their local organizations are
elected. The body governing the union in the interval
between conventions is the International Board consisting of the principal officers, the president, vice-president
and secretary-treasurer, together with a member from

3M

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

each district. The president has much power. He can
remove or suspend International officers, appoints the
national organizers and subordinates, and is to interpret
authoritatively the constitution, subject to reversal by the
International Board. When the Board is not in session,
the individual members are to do what he directs them to
do. He may dispense with initiation fees for admission
of new locals and members. The machinery of the organization is directed largely toward propaganda, conciliation
of labor disputes, the making of scale agreements with
operators, the discipline of officers, members, districts
and locals, and toward strikes and the maintenance of
funds for that purpose. It is admirably framed for unit
action under the direction of the National officers. It has
a weekly journal, whose editor is appointed by the president, which publishes all official orders and circulars, and
all the union news. Each local union is required to be a
subscriber, and, its official notices are to be brought by the
secretary to the attention of the members. The initiation
fees and dues collected from each member are divided between the national treasury, the district treasury and
that of the local. Should a local dissolve, the money is to
be transmitted to the National treasury.
The rules as to strikes are important here. Section 27
of Article IX of the constitution is as follows:
"The Board shall have power between conventions, by
a two-thirds vote, to recommend the calling of a gener.l
strike, but under no circumstances shall it call such a
strike until approved by a referendum vote of the members."
Under Article XVI, no district is permitted to engage in
a strike involving all or a major portion of its members
without sanction of the International Convention or
Board.
Section 2 of that article provides that districts may
order local strikes within their respective districts "on

UNITED MINE WORKERS v. CORONADO CO.
344.

385

Opinion of the Court.

their own responsibility, but where local strikes are to be
financed by the International Union, they must be sanctioned by the International Executive Board."
Section 3 provides that in unorganized fields the Convention or Board must sanction strikes and no financial
aid is to be given until after the strike has lasted four
weeks, unless otherwise decided by the Board. The Board
is to prescribe conditions in which strikes are to be
financed by the International Union and the amount of
strike relief to be furnished the striking members. In
such cases, the president appoints a financial agent to assume responsibility for money to be expended from the
International funds, and he only can make binding contracts. There is a uniform system of accounting as to the
disbursements for strikes.
The- membership of the union has reached 450,000.
The dues received from them for the national and district
organizations make a very large annual total, and the obligations assumed in travelling expenses, holding of conventions, and general overhead cost, but most of all in
strikes, are so heavy that an extensive financial business is
carried on, money is borrowed, notes are given to banks,
and in every way the union acts as a business entity, distinct from its members. No organized corporation has
greater unity of action, and in none is more power centered in the governing executive bodies.
Undoubtedly at common law, an unincorporated association of persons was not recognized as having any other
character than a partnership in whatever was done, and it
could only sue or be sued in the names of its members, and
their liability had to be enforced against each member.
Pickett v. Walsh, 192 Mass. 572; Karges FurnitureCo. v.
Amalgamated Woodworkers Local Union, 165 Ind. 421;
Baskins v. United Mine Workers of America, 234 S. W. 464.
But the growth and necessities of these great labor organizations have brought affirmative legal recognition of their

386

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

existence and usefulness and provisions for their protection, which their members have found necessary. Their
right to maintain strikes, when they do not violate law or
the rights of others, has been declared. The embezzlement of funds by their officers has been especially denounced as a crime. The so-called union label, which is a
quasi trademark to indicate the origin of manufactured
product in union labor, has been protected against pirating and deceptive use by the statutes of most of the States,
and in many States authority to sue to enjoin its use has
been conferred on unions. They have been given distinct
and separate representation and the right to appear to
represent union interests in statutory arbitrations, and before official labor boards. We insert in the margin an ex,tended reference,1 furnished by the industry of counsel, to
1. Legalization of labor unions and labor combinations:
The Clayton Act-approved October 15, 1914, § 6, 38 Stat. 730,
731. California-PenalCode, 1906, p. 581. Colorado-Rev. Stats.
1908, § 3924. Maryland-Supp. Anno. Code, 1914, Art. 27, § 40.
Massachusetts-C.778, Acts & Res. approved July 7, 1914. Minnesota-C.493, approved April 21, 1917. Nevada-Rev. Laws, 1912, §
6801. New Jersey-Comp. Stats. 1910, § 128, p. 3051. New YorkConsol. Laws 1909, c. 40, § 582. North Dakota-Rev. Code 1905, §
8770. Oklahoma-Rev. Laws 1910, § 3764. Pennsylvania-Dig.
Statute Law 1920, § 21247. Texas-Rev. Civ. Stats. 1911, Arts.
5244-5246. Utah-C.68, approved March 8, 1917; Laws of 1917, c.
68, § 1. West Virginia-Acts of 1907, c. 78, § 19.
2. Exemption from anti-trust laws by statute or judicial decision:
California-Acts of 1909, c. 362, § 13. Iowa-Rholf v. Kasemeser,
140 Ia. 182. Louisiana-Acts of 1892, Act No. 90, § 8; Rev. Laws,
1897, p. 205. Michigan-Comp. Laws, 1897, § 11382. MontanaRev. Code 1907, § 8289; Acts of 1909, c. 97, § 2. New HampshireLaws of 1917, c. 177, § 7. Nebraska-State v. Employers of Labor,
102 Neb. 768. Wisconsin-Stats. of 1913, § 1747h.
3. Right given to labor unions to sue to enjoin infringement of
registered union label or trademark:
Arkansas-Acts of 1905, Act 309, § 7. Colorado-Mills' Supp.
1904, § 2985; Rev. Stats. 1908, § 6848. Florida-Gen.Stats. 1906,
§ 3172. Idaho--Rev. Code of 1908, § 1453. Illinqis-Rev, Stats.

UNITED MINE WORKERS v. CORONADO CO. 387
344.

Opinion of the Court.

legislation of this kind. More than this, equitable procedure adapting itself to modern needs has grown to recognize the need of representation by one person of many,
too numerous to sue or to be sued (Story Equity Pleadings, 8th ed., §§ 94, 97; St. Germainv. Bakery, &c., Union,
97 Wash. 282; Branson v. Industrial Workers of the
World, 30 Nev. 270; Barnes & Co. v. Chicago Typographical Union, 232 Ill. 402); and this has had its influence upon the law side of litigation, so that, out of the
very necessities of the existing conditions and the utter
impossibility of doing justice otherwise, the suable character of such an organization as this has come to be recognized in some jurisdictions, and many suits for and against
labor unions are reported in which no question has been
raised as to the right to treat them in their closely united
1908, c. 140, § 4. Iowa-Code of 1897, § 5050.

Kansas-Gen. Stats.

1915, § 11657. Kentucky-Stats. 1903, c. 130, § 4750. LouisianaActs of 1898, Act No. 49, § 5. Maryland--Supp. Anno. Code, 1914,
Art. 27, § 53. Montana-Rev. Code 1907, § 8455. Nebraska-Comp.
Stats. 1913, § 3570. Nevada-Rev. Laws 1912, § 4636. New Hampshire-Laws of 1895, c. 42, § 4. New York-Consol. Laws 1909, c.
31, § 16. Oregon-Bellinger & Cotton's Anno. Stats. 1902, § 1845.
Pennsylvania-Laws of 1901, Act No. 84, § 4; Dig. Statute Law,
1920, § 21241. Rhode Island-Gen. Laws 1909, c. 196, § 5. South
Dakota-Rev. Code 1903, § 3194. Tennessee-Acts of 1905, c.
21, § 6. Texas-Civil Code, 1911, Art. 705. Vermont-Laws of 1908,
Act No. 121, § 5. Virginia-Code of 1904, §.1906d, par. (5). Washington-Codes & Stats. 1910, § 9496. West Virginia-Acts of 1901,
c. 5, § 5; Code of 1913, § 3582. Wisconsin-Stats. of 1911, c. 84a,
§ 1747a-5. Wyoming-Comp. Stats., 1910, e. 218, § 3441.
4. Unauthorized use of registered union label or trademark made
an offense:
Alabama-Code of 1907, §§ 7322, 7323. Arizona-Penal Code,
§§ 355-358. Arkansas-Acts of 1905, Act No. 309 (amended by c.
131, Acts of 1909). California-Political Code, 1906, §§ 3200-3201;
'Penal Code, 1906, §§ 349a-351 (amended by c. 181, Acts of 1911).
Colorado--Mills' Supp. 1904, § 2985-1 to 2985-s; Rev. Stats. 1908,
§ 6844. Connecticut-Gen. Stats. 1902, §§ 4907-4912 (amended by

388

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

action and functions as artificial persons capable of suing
and being sued. It would be unfortunate if an organization with as great power as this International Union has
in the raising of large funds and in directing the conduct
of four hundred thousand members in carrying on, in a
wide territory, industrial controversies and strikes, out of
which so much unlawful injury to private rights is possic. 151, Acts of 1907). Delaware-Acts of 1899, c. 266. FloridaGen. Stats. 1906, §§ 3169-3172. Georgia-Code of 1910, §§ 19891992. Idaho-Rev. Codes of 1908, §§1449-1455. Illinois-Rev.
Stats. 1908, c. 140, §§ 1-7. Indiana-Anno. Stats. 1901, §§ 86938703; 3 Burns Anno. Stats. 1908, §§ 10453-10463. Iowa-Code of
1897, §§ 5049-5051. Kansas-Gen. Stats. 1909, §§ 9675-9680; Gen.
Stats. 1915, §§ 11654-11659. Kentucky-Stats. of 1903, §§ 4749-4755. Louisiana-Acts of 1898, Act No. 49. Maine-Rev. Stats.
1903, c. 40, §§ 30-36. Maryland-Pub. Gen. Laws 1903, Art. 27,
§§ 43-48. Massachusetts-Rev. Laws 1902, c. 72, §§ 7-14. Michigan-Comp. Laws 1897, §§ 11681-11686 (amended by c. 279, Acts
of 1913). Minnesota-Rev. Laws 1905, §§ 5072-5076. MissouriRev. Stats. 1909, §§ 11789-11796. Montana-Penal Code 1907, §§
8452-8457. Nebraska-Comp. Stats. 1911, §§ 4169-4173. NevadaRev. Laws 1912, §§ 4635-4637. New Hampshire-Acts of 1895, c.
42. New Jersey-Comp. Stats. 1910, pp. 1802, 5643-5648. New
York-Consol. Laws 1909, c. 31, §§ 15, 16. Ohio-Gen. Code 1910, §§
6219-6227, 13102, 13103, 13153-13155; Acts of 1911, p. 420. Oklahoma-Rev. Laws 1910, §§ 8211-8217. Oregon-Anno. Codes and
Stats. 1902, §§ 1841-1848. Pennsylvania-Dig.Statute Law, 1920,
§§ 21236-21243. Rhode Island-Gen. Laws 1909, c. 196. South
Dakota-Political Code 1903, §§ 3190-3195. Tennessee-Acts of
1905, c. 21. Texas-Rev. Civ. Stats. 1911, Arts. 705, 706; Rev. Crim.
Code, Arts. 1395, 1396. Utah-Comp. Laws 1907, §§ 2720-2723,
4482, 4483. Vermont-Pub. Stats. 1906, §§ 4962-4967; Acts of 1908,
No. 121. Virginia-Codeof 1904, § 1906d. Washington-Codes and
Stats. 1910, §§ 9492-9500. West Virginia-Acts of 1901, c. 5; Hogg's
Code, §§ 3578-3585; Code of 1913, § 487. Wisconsin-Stats. 1911,
§ 1747a. Wyoming-Comp. Stats. 1910, §§ 3439-3444.
5. Unauthorized use of union card, badge, or insignia made an
offense:
California-Acts of 1909, c. 331. Connecticut-Acts of 1907, c.
113, § 2. Massachusetts-Acts of 1909, c. 514, § 32. Minnoota-

UNITED MINE WORXERS v. CORONADO CO. 389
344.

Opinion of the Court.

ble, could assemble its assets to be used therein free from
liability for injuries by torts committed in course of such
strikes. To remand persons injured to a suit against
each of the 400,000 members to recover damages and to
levy on his share of the strike fund, would be to leave
them remediless.
Rev. Laws 1905, § 5053, par. 4. Montana-Rev. Code 1907, § 8866.
New York--Consol. Laws, 1909, c. 40, § 1278. Ohio-Gen. Code
1910, § 13163. Oregon-Acts of 1911, c. 73, §§ 1, 3. PennsylvaniaDig. Statute Law 1920, § 1050. Texas-Rev. Crim. Stats. 1911, Art.
425. Virginia-Acts of 1908, c. 54, § 1.
6. Right to participate in selection of membership of boards of
arbitration in labor controversies:
Alabama-Acts of 1911, p. 320, § 6. Alaska-Acts of 1913, c. 70,
§ 2. Iowa-Acts of 1913, c. 292, §§ 1, 2. Indiana-Anno. Stats.
1901, § 7050 e, f. Idaho-Rev. Code 1909, §§ 1430, 1431. Louisiana-Rev. Stats. 1897, Act No. 139, Acts of 1894, § 1. MinnesotaRev. Laws 1905, § 1828. Nevada-Rev. Laws 1912, § 1930. Nebraska-Rev. Stats. 1913, § 3638. Texas-Rev. Civ. Stats. 1911,
Art. 71.
7. Right to have member of union on board of arbitrators:
Connecticut--Gen. Stats. 1902, § 4708. Illinois-Hurd's Rev.
Stats. 1906, c. 10, § 19. Indiana-Anno. Stats. 1901, § 1750b.
Idaho-Rev. Code 1909, § 1427. Massachusetts-Acts of 1909, c.
514, § 10. Maine-Acts of 1909, c. 229, § 2. Missouri-Rev. Stats.
1909, § 7802. Montana-Rev. Code 1907, §§ 1670, 1671. Nebraska-Rev. Stats. 1913, § 3633. New Hampshire-Acts of 1911,
c. 198, § 3, as amended by c. 186, Acts of 1913. South CarolinaActs of 1916, Act No. 545, § 8. Utah-Comp. Laws 1907, § 1324.
Vermont-Acts of 1912, Act No. 190, § 1.
8. Embezzlement of funds of labor union made a special offense:
Nebraska-Rev. Stats. 1913, § 8659. New Hampshire-Pub.Stats.
1891, c. 273, § 17, as amended by Acts of 1905, c. 1. PennsylvaniaDig. Statute Law 1920, § 21252.
9. Bribery of union representative made an offense:
Nevada-Rev. Laws 1912, § 6794. New Jersey-Acts of 1911, c.
94, § 1. New York-Consol. Laws 1909, c. 40, § 380.
10. All public printing to bear union label:
Maryland-Pub. Gen. Laws 1911, Art. 58, § 9. Montana-Rev.
Code 1907, § 254. Nevada-Rev. Laws 1912, § 4309.

390

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

In the case of Tafi Vale Ry. Co. v. AmalgamatedSociety
of Railway Servants, [1901] A. C. 426, an English statute
provided for the registration of trades unions, authorized
them to hold property through trustees, to have agents,
and provided for a winding up and a rendering of accounts. A union was sued for damages growing out of a
strike. Mr. Justice Farwell, meeting the objection that
the union was not a corporation and could not be sued as
an artificial person, said:
"If the contention of the defendant society were well
founded, the Legislature has authorized the creation of
numerous bodies of men capable of owning great wealth
and of acting by agents with absolutely no responsibility
for the wrongs that they may do to other persons by the
use of that wealth and the employment of those agents."
He therefore gave judgment against the union. This
was affirmed by the House of Lords. The legislation in
question in that case did not create trade unions but
simply recognized their existence and regulated them in
certain ways, but neither conferred on them general power
to sue, nor imposed liability to be sued. See also Hillenbrand v. Building Trade Council, 14 Ohio Dec. (N. P.)
628. Holland Jurisprudence, 12th ed., 341; Pollock's First
Book on Jurisprudence, 2nd ed., 125.
Though such a conclusion as to the suability of trades
unions is of primary importance in the working out of
justice and in protecting individuals and society from
possibility of oppression and injury in their lawful rights
from the existence of such powerful entities as trade
unions, it is after all in essence and principle merely a
procedural matter. As a. matter of substantive law, all
the members.of the union engaged in a combination doing
unlawful injury are liable to suit and recovery, and the
only question is whether when they have voluntarily, and
for the purpose of acquiring concentrated strength and the
faculty of quick unit action and elasticity, created a self-

UNITED MINE WORKERS v. CORONADO CO.
344.

391

Opinion of the Court.

acting body with great funds to accomplish their purpose,
they may not be sued as this body, and the funds they
have accumulated may not be made to satisfy claims for
injuries unlawfully caused in carrying out their united
purpose. Trade unions have been recognized as lawful by
the Clayton Act; they have been tendered formal incorporation as National Unions by the Act of Congress, approved June 29, 1886, c. 567, 24 Stat. 86. In the Act of
Congress, approved August 23, 1912, c. 351, 37 Stat. 415,
a commission on industrial relations was created providing that three of the commissioners should represent organized labor. The Transportation Act of 1920, c. 91,
§§ 302-307, 41 Stat. 469, recognizes labor unions in creation of railroad boards of adjustment, and provides for
action by the Railroad Labor Board upon their application. The Act of Congress, approved August 5, 1909, c. 6,
§ 38, 36 Stat. 112, and the Act approved October 3, 1913,
c. 16, subd. G(a), 38 Stat. 172, expressly exempt labor
unions from excise taxes. Periodical publications issued
by or under the auspices of trade unions are admitted into
the mails as second-class mail matter. Act of 1912, c. 389,
37 Stat. 550. The legality of labor unions of postal employees is expressly recognized by Act of Congress, approved August 24, 1912, c. 389, § 6, 37 Stat. 539, 555. By
Act of Congress, passed August 1, 1914, no money was to
be used from funds therein appropriated to prosecute
unions under the Anti-Trust Act (c. 223, 38 Stat. 609,
652).
In this state of federal legislation, we think that such
organizations are suable in the federal courts for their
acts, and that funds accumulated to be expended in conducting strikes are subject to execution in suits for torts
committed by such unions in strikes. The fact that the
Supreme Court of Arkansas has since taken a different
view in Baskins v. United Mine Workers of America,
supra, can not under the Conformity Act operate as a
limitation on the federal procedure in this regard.

392

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

Our conclusion as to the suability of the defendants is
confirmed in the case at bar by the words of §§ 7 and 8 of
the Anti-Trust Law: The persons who may be sued
under § 7 include "corporations and associations existing
under or authorized by the laws of either the United
States, the laws of any of the Territories, the laws of
any State, or the laws of any foreign country" [§ 8].
This language is very broad, and the words given their
natural signification certainly include labor unions like
these. They are, as has been abundantly shown, associations existing under the laws of the United States, of the
Territories thereof, and of the States of the Union. Congress was passing drastic legislation to remedy a threatening danger to the public welfare, and did not intend that
any persons or combinations of persons should escape
its application. Their thought was especially directed
against business associations and combinations that were
unincorporated to do the things forbidden by the act, but
they used language broad enough to include all associations which might violate its provisions recognized by the
statutes of the United States or the States or the Territories, or foreign countries as lawfully existing; aiid this,
of course, includes labor unions, as the legislation referred
to shows. Thus it was that in the cases of United States
v. Trans-Missouri Freight Association, 166 U. S. 290,
United States v. Joint Traffic Association, 171 U. S. 505,
Montague & Co. v. Lowry, 193 U. S. 38, and Eastern
States Retail Lumber Dealers' Association v. United
States, 234 U. S. 600, unincorporated associations were
made parties to suits in the federal courts under the AntiTrust Act without question by anyone as to the correctness of the procedure.
For these reasons, we conclude that the International
Union, the District No. 21 and the twenty-seven Local
Unions were properly made parties defendant here and
properly served by process on their principal officers.

UNITED MINE WORKERS v. CORONADO CO.
344.

393

Opinion of the Court.

Third. The next question is whether the International
Union was shown by any substantial evidence to have
initiated, participated in or ratified the interference with
plaintiffs' business which began April 6, 1914, and continued at intervals until July 17, when the matter culminated in a battle and the destruction of the Bache-Denman properties. The strike was a local strike declared by
the president and officers of the District Organization
No. 21, embracing Arkansas, Oklahoma and Texas. By
Art. XVI of the International constitution, as we have
seen, it could not thus engage in a strike if it involved all
or a major part of its district members without sanction
of the International Board. There is nothing to show that
the International Board ever authorized it, took any part
in preparation for it or in its maintenance. Nor did they
or their organization ratify it by paying any of the expenses. It came exactly within the definition of a local
strike in the constitutions of both the National and the
District organizations. The District made the preparations and paid the bills. It does appear that the president
of the National body was in Kansas City and heard of the
trouble which had taken place on April 6 at Prairie Creek
and that at a meeting of the International Board he reported it as something he had learned on his trip for their
official information. He said that a man named Bache
had demanded in a suit an accounting of the funds of the
Southwestern Coal Operators' Association, that when he
secured the information, he " went down to Arkansas and
started to run his mine non-union. The boys simply
marched in on him in a day down there and kicked his
Colorado guards out of there and broke their jaws and
put the flag of the United Mine Workers on top of the
tipple and pulled the fires out of the boilers, and that was
all there was to it, and the mines have been idle ever
since. I do not say our boys did this, but I mean the
people from all through that country marched in and

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

stopped the work, and when the guards offered resistance,
several of them were roughly handled but no lives were
lost as I understand it." Later in May he made a long
speech at a special convention of District No. 21 held at
Fort Smith for a purpose not connected with this matter
in which he referred especially to the Colorado and West
Virginia strikes in which the International Union was engaged with all its might, but he made no specific allusion
to the Prairie Creek difficulty. It does appear that in 1916,
after Stewart, the president of District No. 21, had been
convicted of conspiracy to defeat the injunction issued to
protect the Prairie Creek mines in this conflict, and had
gone to the penitentiary and was pardoned, White, the.
national president, wrote a letter thanking the President
for this, and that subsequently he appointed Stewart to a
position on a District committee. It would be going very
far to consider such acts of the president alone a ratification by the International Board creating liability for a
past tort. The president had not authority to order or
ratify a local strike. Only the Board could do this.
White's report in an executive meeting of the Board of
the riot of April 6 shows sympathy with its purpose and
a lack of respect for law but does not imply or prove on
his part any prior initiation or indicate a desire to ratify
the transaction as his work. The Board took no action
on his report. He did not request it.
Communications from outsiders and editorials published in the United Mine Workers journal giving accounts of the occurrences at Prairie Creek and representing that the troubles were due to the aggression of the
armed guards of the mine owners and that the action of
the union men was justified because in defense of their
homes against night attacks, do not constitute such ratification by the Board or the president after the fact as to
make the International Union liable for what had been
done.

UNITED MINE WORKERS v. CORONADO CO.
344.

395

Opinion of the Court.

The argument of counsel for the plaintiffs is that because the National body had authority to discipline District organizations, to make local strikes its own and to
pay their cost, if it deemed it wise, the duty was thrust
on it when it knew a local strike was on, to superintend it
and prevent its becoming lawless at its peril. We do not
conceive that such responsibility is imposed on the National body. A corporation is responsible for the wrongs
committed by its agents in the course of its business, and
this principle is enforced against the contention that torts
are ultra vires of the corporation. But it must be shown
that it is in the business of the corporation. Surely no
stricter rule can be enforced against an unincorporated
organization like this. Here it is not a question of contract or of holding out an appearance of authority on
which some third person acts. It is a mere question of
actual agency which the constitutions of the two bodies
settle conclusively. If the International body had interfered or if it had assumed liability by ratification, different questions would have arisen.
Counsel cite § 2 of Art. XII of the constitution of District No. 21 to show that questions of all strikes must be
referred by District officers to the National president for
his decision, and suggest that in the absence of a showing
it is to be inferred that they did so here and the strike
was approved by him. They misconstrue the section. It
applies only to a proposed strike which would affect two
Districts and to which one District is opposed. It does not
apply to local strikes like this.
But it is said that the District was doing the work of
the International and carrying out its policies and this
circumstance makes the former an agent. We can not
agree to this in the face of the specific stipulation between
them that in such a case unless the International expressly
assumed responsibility, the District must meet it alone.
The subsequent events showing that the District did meet

396

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

the responsibility with its own funds confirm our reliance
upon the constitution of the two bodies.
We conclude that the motions of the International
Union, the United Mine Workers of America, and of its
president and its other officers, that the jury be directed
to return a verdict for them, should have been granted.
Fourth. The next question is twofold: (a) Whether the
District No. 21 and the individual defendants participated
in a plot unlawfully to deprive the plaintiffs of their employees by intimidation and violence and in the course of
it destroyed their properties, and, (b), whether they did
these things in pursuance of a conspiracy to restrain and
monopolize interstate commerce.
The case made for the plaintiff was as follows:
(a) In March of 1914, when the Prairie Creek No. 4,
Mammoth Vein Coal Mine, and the Coronado mines were
operating with union labor and under a District No. 21
contract and scale of wages and terms which did not expire until July 1 following, Bache, the manager of all the
properties, determined to run his mines thereafter on a
non-union or open basis. He had his superintendent prepare a letter setting forth his reasons for the change and
forwarded it to his principals in the East to justify the
change of policy which he insisted would result in a substantial reduction in the cost of production. To avoid the
charge of a breach of the union scale, he had a contract
made between the Mammoth Vein Coal Mining Company,
which he controlled, and the Prairie Creek Coal Company
and the Mammoth Vein Coal Company, by which the
Mammoth Vein Coal Mining Company, a corporation with
$100 capital, agreed to run the mines. As it had signed no
scale, he considered it free from obligation to the union.
He then shut down the mines and prepared to open them
on a non-union basis on April 6. He anticipated trouble.
He employed three guards from the Burns Detective
Agency, and a number of others to aid them. He bought

UNITED MINE WORKERS v. CORONADO CO.
344.

397

Opinion of the Court.

a number of Winchester rifles and ammunition. He surrounded his principal mining plant at Prairie Creek No. 4
with a cable strung on posts. He had notices prepared
for his former employees, who occupied the Company's
houses, to vacate. He had notices warning trespassers
from the premises posted at the entrance to the tract that
was enclosed within the cable. He sent out for non-union
men and had gathered some thirty or more at the mine
by the day fxed for the opening.
The mines of the plaintiffs lie in the County of Sebastian on the west border of Arkansas, next to Oklahoma, in
a hilly country. The whole country is full of coal mines.
The annual coal-producing capacity of Arkansas is about
2,000,000 tons. The product is a smokeless coal like the
Pocahontas of West Virginia. All the Arkansas mines but
one small one were union. The towns in the neighborhood, Hartford, Huntington, Midland, Frogtown, and
others were peopled by union miners and the business
done in them was dependent on union miners' patronage.
Hartford, a town of twenty-five hundred, was about three
miles from Prairie Creek, Midland, less in size, lay about
the same distance away in another direction, and Huntington was a mile or two further in still another direction.
Frogtown was a small village about a mile and a half from
Prairie Creek. Stewart, the president of the District No.
21, and the other officers promptly declared a local strike
against the Prairie Creek and Mammoth Vein mine and
the union miners who had not been discharged from the
Coronado mine of the plaintiffs left. Through the agency
.of the officers of District No. 21 and the local
unions, a
public meeting was called at the school house, about a
quarter of a mile from the Prairie Creek mine. The influence of the union men was exerted upon the shopkeepers
of the towns above named to close their stores and attend
the meeting. It was given a picnic character and women
and children attended. The meeting, after listening to

398

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

speeches, appointed a committee to visit the superintendent in charge of the mine. On this committee was one
Slankard, a constable of the town of Hartford, and a union
man, together with two other union miners. They asked
the superintendent that the non-union men be sent away
and the mine resume operations with union men. The
committee was attended by a very large body of union
ininers. They were met at the entrance to the enclosure
by two guards with guns carried behind them. The committee was admitted to see the superintendent and the
crowd dealt with the guards. The guards had been directed not to use their guns save to defend their own lives
or another's. The union miners assaulted the guards, took
the guns away, and so injured a number of the employees,
that four or five had to be sent to a hospital. The crowd
swarmed over the premises, forced the pulling of the fires
and hurled stones at the fleeing guards. The result was
that all the employees deserted the mine, and it was completely filled with water which came in when the pumps
stopped. One of the crowd went up to the top of the coal
tipple and planted a flag on which was the legend, "This is
a union man's country."
Mr. Bache, after the riot and lawless violeace of April
6, secured from the Federal District Court an injunction
against those union miners and others whom his agents
could identify as having been present and having taken
part. This included the president and secretary-treasurer
of the District No. 21 and others. Bache then made
preparations to resume mining. The mine was full of
water and it required a considerable time to pump it out
and get things into proper condition. Because of further
threats, the court was applied to to send United States
Deputy Marshals to guard the property, and they were
sent. Meantime the work of reparation progressed, and
Bache's agents were engaged in securing the coming of
miners and other employees from in and out of the State

UNITED MINE WORKEIRS v. CORONADO CO.
344.

399

Opinion of the Court.

to enlarge his force. The attitude of the union miners
continued hostile, and constant effort was made by them
to intercept the groups of men and women who were
brought in by Bache from Tennessee and elsewhere, and
to turn them away either by peaceable inducement or by
threats and physical intimidation. The vicinage was so
permeated with union feeling that the public officers did
not hesitate to manifest their enmity toward the nonunion men, and made arrests of the guards and others who
were in Bache's employ upon frivolous charges. Rumors
were spread abroad through the county that the guards
employed by Bache were insulting and making indecent
proposals to very young girls in and about Prairie Creek,
and P. R. Stewart, the president of District No. 21, in
the presence of some ten persons on the public street
of Midland, in the latter part of May, denounced the
guards for these insults and proposals, and said that he
would furnish the guns if the people would take them.
The evidence also disclosed that through the secretarytreasurer of District No. 21, some forty or more rifles
were bought from the Remington Arms Company and
secretly sent to Hartford for the purpose intended by
Stewart. They were paid for by a check signed by Holt,
the secretary-treasurer of District No. 21, and countersigned by Stewart, the president. Conversations with
Stewart, which Stewart did not take the stand to deny,
were sworn to, in which he announced that he would not
permit the Prairie Creek mine to run "non-union" and
intended to stop it. McLachlin, who was a member of the
Executive Board of District No. 21, in the first week of
July gathered up some of the guns, exactly how many
does not appear, and shipped them sixty miles to McAlester, Oklahoma, the headquarters of District No. 21.
It appeared that guns of like make and caliber were used
by the assailants in the attack on the Prairie Creek mine
on July 17. The 'United States marshals had been with-

400

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

drawn from the premises of Prairie Creek Mine No. 4,
before July 1, though the guards were retained.
The evidence leaves no doubt that during the month of
June there was a plan and movement among the union
miners to make an attack upon Prairie Creek Mine
No. 4.
By this time the number of men secured by Bache had
increased to seventy or eighty, and preparations were
rapidly going on for a resumption of mining. The tense
feeling in respect to the coming attack increased. On
Sunday night, July 12, about midnight, there was a fusillade of shots into the village of Frogtown, a small collection of houses, already mentioned, about a mile and a
half from Prairie Creek mine. A number of people in
fright at the cry that "the scabs were surrounding the
town" left and went to Hartford, about two miles away,
and thereafter guards were put out at Hartford to defend
that town against attack by the guards at Prairie Creek.
The ridiculous improbability that the guards at Prairie
Creek who were engaged in protecting themselves and the
property and in constant fear of attack should make this
unprovoked assault upon the town of Frogtown, is manifest from the slightest reading of the evidence, and there
crept in through a statement of one of the defendants, an
active union man, to a witness who testified to it, that this
shooting had been done by the Hartford constable Slankard, and himself, in order to arouse the hostility of the
neighborhood against the men at Prairie Creek. On the
night of the 16th, the union miners' families who lived in
Prairie Creek were warned by friends to leave that vicinity in order to avoid danger, and at 4 o'clock the next
morning the attack was begun by a volley of many shots
fired into the premises. A large force with guns attacked
the mining premises from all sides later on in the day.
The first movement toward destruction of property was
at Mine No. 3, a short distance from No. 4, where the coal
washhouse was set on fire. The occupants of the prem-

UNITED MINE WORKERS v. CORONADO CO. 401
344.

Opinion of the Court.

ises were driven out except a few who stayed and entrenched themselves behind coal cars or other protection.
Most of the employees and their families fled to the ridges
behind which they were able to escape danger from the
flying bullets. The forces surrounding the mine were so
numerous that by one o'clock they had driven out practically all of the defenders and set fire to the coal tipple
of Mine No. 4, and destroyed all the plant by the use of
dynamite and the match.
The assailants took some of Bache's employees prisoners as they were escaping, and conducted them to a log
cabin behind the school house near the mine to which
reference has already been made, and where the first riot
meeting was held. The four or five prisoners were taken
out of the cabin where they had been for a short time
confined, and two of them, one a former union man, were
deliberately murdered in the presence of their captors, by
a man whose identity it was impossible to establish. The
evidence in this case clearly shows that Slankard, the constable of Hartford, was present at the killing, and that the
men who were killed were in his custody on the way, as
he said, to the grand jury. He was subsequently tried
before a Sebastian County jury for murder; and was acquitted on an alibi. Slankard, though a defendant and in
court, did not take the stand in this case. The overwhelming weight of the evidence establishes that this was
purely a union attack, under the guidance of District
officers.
The testimony offered by defendants to show that it
was only an uprising of the indignant citizens of the countryside really tended to confirm the guilt of the District
No. 21. Its palpably artificial character showed that basis
for it had been framed in advance for the purpose of relieving the officers of District No. 21 and the union miners
of that neighborhood from responsibility for the contemplated execution of their destructive and criminal purpose. It is a doubtful question whether this responsibility

402

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

was not so clearly established that, had that been the
only element needed to justify a verdict, the court properly might have directed it. The president of District
No. 21 and the union miners, including Slankard, whose
agency in and leadership of this attack were fully proven,
were present in the courtroom at the trial, but did not
take the stand to deny the facts established. Indeed
they had been previously brought to trial for conspiracy
to defeat the federal administration of justice and for
contempt because 'of these very acts, had pleaded guilty
to the charges made, and had been sentenced to imprisonment, and their expenses as defendants in and out of jail
had been paid by the District out of the District treasury
and the disbursements approved by the District in convention.
It is contended on behalf of District No. 21 and the
local unions that only those members of these bodies
whom the evidence shows to have participated in the
torts can be held civilly liable for the damages. There
was evidence to connect all these individual defendants
with the acts which were done, and, in view of our finding
that District No. 21 and the unions are suable, we can
not yield to the argument that it would be necessary to
show the guilt of every member of District No. 21 and of
each union in order to hold the union and its strike funds
to answer. District No. 21 and the local unions were engaged in a work in which the strike was one of the chief
instrumentalities for accomplishing the purpose for which
their unions were organized. By § 1 of Art. XII of the
constitution of District No. 21, it is provided that:
"When trouble of a local character arises between the
members of local unions and their employer, the mine
committee and officers shall endeavor to effect an amicable adjustment, and failing they shall immediately
notify the officers of the district and said district officers
shall immediately investigate the cause of the complaint,

UNITED MINE WORKERS v. CORONADO CO.
344.

403

Opinion of the Court.

and failing to effect a peacdful settlement upon a basis
that would be equitable and just to the aggrieved members, finding that a strike would best subserve the interests of the locality affected, they may with the consent
and approval of the district officers, order a strike.'
Thus the authority is put by all the members of the
District No. 21 in their officers to order a strike, and if in
the conduct of that strike unlawful injuries are inflicted,
the District organization is responsible anal the fund accumulated for strike purposes may be subjected to the
payment of any judgment which is recovered.
(b) It was necessary, however, in order to hold District
No. 21 liable in this suit under the Anti-Trust Act, to
establish that this conspiracy to attack the Bache-Denman mines and stop the non-union employment there,
was with intent to restrain interstate commerce and to
monopolize the same, and to subject it to the control of
the union. The evidence upon which the plaintiffs relied
to establish this and upon which the judgment of the trial
court and of the Court of Appeals went, consisted of a
history of the relations between the International Union
and the union coal operators of certain so-called competitive districts from 1898 until 1914. The miners of
Ohio, Indiana and Illinois, large bituminous coal producing States, were members of the union and the coal
operators of those States, in spite of strikes and lockouts
from time to time, were properly classed as union operators. They met yearly in conference with the union's
representatives to agree upon terms of employment from
April 1st to April 1st. In these conferences the operators
frequently complained that the competition of many nonunion mines in Western Pennsylvania and the whole of
West Virginia was ruinous to their business because of
the low cost of production of coal in such mines due to the
lower wages and less expensive conditions of working than

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

in union mines, and urged that something must be done to
stop this, or that the union scale of wages be reduced.
By section 8 of the contract between the operators of the
Central Competitive Coal Field and the United Mine
Workers of America, dated Chicago, January 28, 1898, it
was stipulated "That the United Mine Workers' organization, a party to this contract, do hereby further
agree to afford all possible protection to the trade and to
other parties .hereto, against any unfair competition resulting from a failure to maintain scale rates."
From this time on in every annual conference until
after the controversy in the case before us in 1914, the
subject recurred. It does not appear when, if at any time,
wages were reduced because of this plea by the operators.
Sometimes the contention of the operators as to the
effect of non-union competition was conceded and greater
activity in unionizing non-union territory was promised.
Again pleas were made by the miners' representatives of
the great amount of money expended by the union and,
in one or two instances, of the sacrifice of human lives to
effect this result. Again the union leaders flatly refused
to be further affected by the argument and charged that
the non-union competition of West Virginia, which was
always the principal factor, was only possible because
some of the most important union operators in Ohio and
the central competitive field really were interested as nonunion operators in West Virginia. There was considerable
discussion as to the non-union competition of Kentucky
fields as a basis for the operators' complaints. At times,
there were suggestions from the miners' side that the
operators ought to contribute funds to enable the campaign of unionizing to go on, but they never seem to have
met with favor.
In general convention of the union of 1904, a local union
from the Indian Territory in District No. 21 submitted a
resolution which was adopted in respect to the then
Colorado strike:

UNITED MINE WORKERS v. CORONADO CO.
344.

405

Opinion of the Court.

"Resolved, That ini strict compliance with our obligations and teachings, we accord a hearty approval to our
National Board on its action in regard to District No. 15
strike, now on, in Colorado, and whatever action taken
by the National that in their judgment is necessary to the
successful ending in the elevating of the craft in District
No. 15, meets our entire approval, for which we pledge
our unqualified support, as our knowledge of the field of
southern Colorado in the event of an unsuccessful issue
of the trouble now pending would work almost unsurmountable and incalculable damage to District No. 21,
as it would be an unjust competition in the same commercial field and could with very little effort undersell
and supersede us in the Oklahoma and southwestern Kansas markets."
In a joint conference between the union leaders and the
coal operators, in 1904, Mr. Mitchell, the president of the
union, spoke as follows:
"I believe the discussion of this matter should be carried on with perfect frankness and candor on both sides.
I don't think we should disguise our position at all; and
I want to state for our side of the house just where we are,
as I understand it. We don't believe that a reduction in
the mining rate will help you. We know that it will do
us incalculable injury. We don't believe that a reduction
in the mining rate will secure for you a larger amount of
trade than you now have. We don't believe that the
industry will be benefited by reducing wages. We know
that in the past every reduction in wages has been given
to the large consumers of coal-not to the domestic trade,
not to those who can ill afford to pay high rates for coal,
but to the railroad companies and the great manufacturers. We know that when the mining rate is lowest your
profits have been least.
"Now, gentlemen, it has required many many years
of work and effort and sacrifice to make wages at the

406

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

mines compare favorably with wages in other industries.
We are not going back to the old conditions; we are not
going to consent to a reduction in wages. We believe the
best thing to do is to renew our present wage scale; to
make such modifications of internal questions as seem
right, and then return and work out the coming scale
year as we have the past scale year. I think we may as
well understand now as at any other time that we are not
going to consent to a reduced mining rate."
At the convention in 1906, a resolution that Districts
13, 14, 21, 24 and 25,-be admitted to the interstate joint
conferences, was adopted. This was urged by President
Mitchell of the Union, and the Secretary, W. B. Wilson.
The latter said:
"If I understand the principle upon which this movement is based, it is to bring into the joint conference those
operators and those miners [of the Southwestern District] whose competitive business is closely related to
each other; and in asking that the operators and miners
of the Southwestern District be admitted to this conference, we are simply carrying out that principle. The
coal mined in Western Pennsylvania comes in immediate
and direct competition with Ohio; that mined in Ohio, as
well as that in Pennsylvania, cpmes in competition with
Indiana and Illinois; that mined in Illinois comes in competition with Iowa; that mined in Iowa comes in competition with Missouri, and coal mined in Missouri comes in
competition with Kansas, Arkansas and the Indian Territory. They are all related to one another; they are all
competitors with one another, and it is but just and fair
that each of these fields should have a representation in
the joint conference that sets a base for the prices of the
ensuing year. This is the first conference that is held.
Whatever wages are agreed upon here, whether it is an increase in wages, a decrease in wages, improved conditions
or otheryise, it sets the pace for other districts, and those

UNITED MINE WORKERS v. CORONADO CO.
344.

407

Opinion of the Court.

other districts have no voice in saying what that price
shall be. In order to avoid that condition of affairs, in
order to give justice to the operators and miners in other
fields not represented here at the present time, we ask
you, as a matter of fairness and justice, to permit those
whose operators and miners are represented here, to participate in this joint conference."
In 1910, Bache, as a union operator, took part for his
mines in fixing the scale of wages in District No. 21.
Later on, at the time of a conference, he made a separate
scale with the District No. 21 more favorable in some
respects than that subsequently agreed on in the conference with the other operators, and he was for that reason
expelled from the operators' association. He was permitted at a later time to rejoin it, but he had some litigation with it in respect to their funds, the nature of which
is not disclosed by the record.
In 1913 and 1914, and in the years preceding, the International Union had carried on two strikes of great extent
covering the Colorado fields, and the Ohio and West Virginia fields, in which very large sums of money had been
expended and there was much lawlessness and violence.
Its treasury had been drained and it borrowed $75,000
from District No. 21 during this period.
The foregoing will enable one to acquire a fair idea of
the national situation, shown by the record, in respect to
the mining and sale of coal so far as it bears upon this
case and upon this state of fact. The plaintiffs charge
that there has been and is a continuously operating conspiracy between union coal operators and the International Union to restrain interstate commerce in coal and
to monopolize it, and that the work of District No. 21
at Prairie Creek was a step in that conspiracy for which
it can be held liable under the Anti-Trust Act.
Coal mining is not interstate commerce, and the power
of Congress does not extend to its regulation as such. In

408

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

Hammer v. Dagenhart,247 U. S. 251, 272, we said: " The
making of goods and the mining of coal are not commerce,
nor does the fact that these things are to be afterwards
shipped or used in interstate commerce, make their production a part thereof. Delaware, Lackawanna & Western R. R. Co. v. Yurkonis, 238 U. S. 439." Obstruction
to coal mining is not a direct obstruction to interstate
commerce in coal, although it, of course, may affect it by
reducing the ambunt of coal to be carried in that commerce. We have had occasion to consider the principles
governing the validity of congressional restraint of such
indirect obstructions to interstate commerce in Swift &
Co. v. United States, 196 U. S. 375; United States v. Patten, 226 U. S. 525; United States v. Ferger,250 U. S. 199;
Railroad Commission of Wisconsin v. Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co., 257 U. S. 563; and Stafford v.
Wallace, 258 U. S. 495. It is clear from these cases that
if Congress deems certain recurring practices, though
not really part of interstate commerce, likely to obstruct,
restrain or burden it, it has the power to subject them
to national supervision and restraint. Again, it has the
power to punish conspiracies in which such practices are
part of the plan, to hinder, restrain or monopolize interstate commerce. But in the latter case, the intent to injure, obstruct or restrain interstate commerce must appear as an obvious consequence of what is to be done, or
be shown by direct evidence or other circumstances.
What really is shown by the evidence in the case at bar,
drawn from discussions and resolutions of conventions
and conference, is the stimulation of union leaders to press
their unionization of non-union mines not only as a direct
means of bettering the conditions and wages of their workers, but also as a means of lessening interstate competition for union operators which in turn would lessen the
pressure of those operators for reduction of the union
scale or their resistance to an increase. The latter is a

UNITED MINE WORKERS v. CORONADO CO. 409
344.

Opinion of the Court.

secondary or ancillary motive whose actuating force in a
given case necessarily is dependent on the particular circumstances to which it is sought to make it applicable.
If unlawful means had here been used by the National
body to unionize mines whose product was important,
actually or potentially, in affecting prices in' interstate
commerce, the evidence in question would clearly tend to
show that that body was guilty of an actionable conspiracy
under the Anti-Trust Act. This principle is involved in
the decision of the case of Hitchman Coal & Coke Co. v.
Mitchell, 245 U. S. 229, and is restated in American Steel
Foundries v. Tri-City Central Trades Council, 257 U. S.
184. But it is not a permissible interpretation of the evidence in question that it tends to show that the motive
indicated thereby actuates every lawless strike of a local
and sporadic character, not initiated by the National body
but by one of its subordinate subdivisions. The very fact
that local strikes are provided for in the union's constitution, and so may not engage the energies or funds of the
National body, confirms this view. Such a local case of
a lawless strike must stand on its own facts and while
these conventions and discussions may reveal a general
policy, the circumstances or direct evidence should supply
the link between them and the local situation to make an
unlawful local strike, not initiated or financed by the main
organization, a step in an actionable conspiracy to restrain
the freedom of interstate commerce which the Anti-Trust
Act was intended to protect.
This case is very different from Loewe v. Lawlor, 208
U. S. 274. There the gist of the charge held to be a violation of the Anti-Trust Act was the effort of the defendants, members of a trades union, by a boycott against a
manufacturer of hats to destroy his interstate sales in hats.
The direct object of attack was interstate commerce.
So, too, it differs from Eastern States Retail Lumber
Dealers'Association v. United States, 234 U. S. 600, where

410

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

the interstate retail trade of wholesale lumber men with
consumers was restrained by a combination of retail
dealers by an agreement among the latter to blacklist
or boycott any wholesaler engaged in such retail trade.
It was the commerce itself which was the object of the
conspiracy. In United States v. Patten, 226 U. S. 525,
running a corner in cotton in New York City by which
the defendants were conspiring to obtain control of the
available supply and to enhance the price to all buyers
in every market of the country was held to be a conspiracy to restrain interstate trade because cotton was the
subject of interstate trade and such control would directly
and materially impede and burden the due course of trade
among the States and inflict upon the public the injuries
which the Anti-Trust Act was designed to prevent. Although running the corner was not interstate commerce,
the necessary effect of the control of the available supply
would be to obstruct and restrain interstate commerce and
so the conspirators were charged with the intent to restrain. The difference between the Patten Case and that
of Ware & Leland v. Mobile County, 209 U. S. 405, illustrates a distinction to be drawn in cases which do not
involve interstate commerce intrinsically but which may
or may not be regarded as affecting interstate commerce
so directly as to be within the federal regulatory power.
In the Ware & Leland Case, the question was whether a
State could tax the business of a broker dealing in contracts for the future delivery of cotton where there was
no obligation to ship from one State to another. The
tax was sustained and dealing in cotton futures was held
not to be interstate commerce, and yet thereafter such
dealings in cotton futures as were alleged in the Patten
Case where they were part of a conspiracy to bring the
entire cotton trade within its influence, were held to be in
restraint of interstate commerce. And so in the case at
bar, coal mining is not interstate commerce and obstruc-

UNITED MINE WORKERS v. CORONADO CO. 411
344.

Opinion of the Court.

tion of coal mining, though it may prevent coal from going
into interstate commerce, is not a restraint of that commerce unless the obstruction to mining is intended to
restrain commerce in it or has necessarily such a direct,
material and substantial effect to restrain it that the
intent reasonably must be inferred.
In the case at bar, there is nothing in the circumstances
or the declarations of the parties to indicate that Stewart,
the president of District No. 21, or Hull, its secretarytreasurer, or any of their accomplices had in mind interference with interstate commerce or competition when
they entered upon their unlawful combination to break
up Bache's plan to carry on his mines with non-union
men. The circumstances were ample to supply a full
local motive for the conspiracy. Stewart said: "We are
not going to let them dig coal-the scabs." His attention and that of his men was fastened on the presence of
non-union men in the mines in that local community.
The circumstance that a car loaded with coal and billed to
a town in Louisiana was burned by the conspirators has
no significance upon this head. The car had been used
in the battle by some of Bache's men for defense. It
offered protection and its burning was only a part of the
general destruction.
Bache's breach of his contract with the District No. 21
in employing non-union men three months before it expired, his attempt to evade his obligation by a manipulation of his numerous corporations, his advertised anticipation of trespass and violence by warning notices, by
enclosing his mining premises with a cable and stationing
guards with guns to defend them, all these in the heart
of a territory that had been completely unionized for
years, were calculated to arouse a bitterness of spirit entirely local among the union miners against a policy that
brought in strangers and excluded themselves or their
union colleagues from the houses they had occupied and

412

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

the wages they had enjoyed. In the letter which Bache
dictated in favor of operating the mines on a non-union
basis, he said, "To do this means a bitter fight but in my
opinion it can be accomplished by proper organization."
Bache also testified that he was entering into a matter he
knew was perilous and dangerous to his companies because in that section there was only one other mine running on a non-union basis. Nothing of this is recited to
justify in the slightest the lawlessness and outrages committed, but only to point out that as it was a local strike
within the meaning of the International and District
constitutions, so it was in fact a local strike, local in its
origin and motive, local in its waging, and local in its
felonious and murderous ending.
But it is said that these District officers and their lieutenants among the miners must be charged with an intention to do what would be the natural result of their own
acts, that they must have known that obstruction to mining coal in the Bache-Denman mines would keep 75 per
cent. of their output from being shipped out of the State
into interstate competition, and to that extent would
help union operators in their competition for business.
In a.national production of from ten to fifteen million
tons a week, or in a production in District No. 21 of
150,000 tons a week, 5,000 tons a week which the BacheDenman mines in most prosperous times could not exceed,
would have no appreciable effect upon the price of coal
or non-union competition. The saving in the price per
ton of coal under non-union conditions was said by plaintiffs' witnesses to be. from seventeen to twenty cents, but
surely no one would say that such saving on 5,000 tons
would have a substantial effect on prices of coal in interstate commerce. Nor could it be inferred that Bache
intended to cut the price of coal. His purpose was probably to pocket the profit that such a reduction made
possible. If it be said that what District No. 21 feared

UNITED MINE WORKERS v. CORONADO C0.
344.

413

Opinion of the Court.

was that, if Bache were successful, the defection among
union operators would spread and ultimately the whole
District field of District No. 21 in Arkansas, Oklahoma
and Texas would become non-union, and interstate commerce would then be substantially affected, it may be answered that this is remote and no statement or circumstance appears in the record from which it can be inferred
that the participants in the local strike had such a possibility in mind or thought they were thus protecting union
operators in a control or monopoly of interstate commerce. The result of our consideration of the entire
record is that there was no evidence submitted to the
jury upon which they properly could find that the outrages, felonies and murders of District No. 21 and its
companions in crime were committed by them in a conspiracy to restrain or monopolize interstate commerce.
The motion to direct the jury to return a verdict for the
defendants should have been granted.
Fifth. These conclusions make it unnecessary to examine the objection which the plaintiffs in error make to
the supplemental charge of the court.
The case has been prepared by counsel for the plaintiffs
with rare assiduity and ability. The circumstances are
such as to awaken regret that, in our view of the federal
jurisdiction, we can not affirm the judgment. But it is of
far higher importance that we should preserve inviolate
the fundamental limitations in respect to the federal jurisdiction.
The judgment is reversed, and the case remanded
to the District Court for further proceedings in conformity to this opinion.

