OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

259 U. S.

For the reasons given, we must hold the Child Labor
Tax Law invalid and the judgment of the District Court is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE dissents.

HILL, JR., ET AL. v. WALLACE, SECRETARY OF
AGRICULTURE, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILINOIS.

No. 616.

Argued January 11, 12, 1922.-Decided May 15, 1922.

1. Members of an incorporated board of trade have standing to
maintain a bill against its president and directors to restrain them
from complying with an unconstitutional act of Congress threatening seriously to impair the value of the board to its members and
the value of their memberships, when the directors have refused
to bring the suit for fear of antagonizing government officials.
P. 60.
2. Section 3224 of the Revised Statutes forbidding suits to restrain
collection of a tax held inapplicable to this case because of its
exceptional and extraordinary circumstances. P. 62. Dodge 'v.
Brady, 240 U. S. 122.
3. The Act of August 24, 1921, c. 86, 42 Stat. 187, known as the
Future Trading Act, is in purpose, in essence and on its face a
regulation of the business of grain boards of trade, with a heavy
penalty, called a tax, imposed on sales of grain for future delivery
to coerce boards and their members' into compliance with the
regulations, and, therefore, it cannot be sustained as an exercise
of the taxing power of Congress, insofar as concerns this so-called
tax and the regulations related to it. P. 66. Child Labor Tax
Case, ante, 20.
4. Neither are the tax and related regulations sustainable under the
Commerce Clause. P. 68.
5. Sales of grain for future delivery made at *Chicago between the
members of a board of trade, to be settled there by off-setting
purchases or by delivery of warehouse receipts for grain theie
stored, are not in themselves interstate commerce and cannot corAe
within the regulatory power under the Commerce Clause unless
they are regarded by Congress, from the evidence before it, Is

HILL v. WALLACE.
44.

Statement of the Case.

directly interfering with interstate commerce so as to obstruct or
burden it. P. 68.
6. A direction in an act that, if any of its provisions or the application thereof to any person or circumstance be held invalid, the
validity of the remainder of the act or the application of such
provision to other persons and circumstances shall not be affected,
is an assurance that separable valid provisions may be enforced
consistently with legislative intent, but does not and cannot empower the courts to amend inseparable provisions of the act by
inserting limitations which it does not contain. P. 70.
7. Under § 11 of the Future Trading Act, supra, directing severance
of valid from invalid provisions and applications, § 9, which
authorizes investigations by the Secretary of Agriculture, and,
semble, § 3, imposing a tax on certain kinds of options of purchase
or sale of grain, are unaffected by the conclusion that § 4, imposing
the tax on sales for future delivery, and the regulations interwoven
with it in subsequent sections, are invalid. P. 71.
Reversed.

This is a suit attacking the validity of the Future Trading Act, approved August 24, 1921, c. 86, 42 Stat. 187.
The act imposes a tax of 20 cents a iushel on all contracts for the sale of grain for future delivery, but excepts
from its application sales on boards of trade designated as
contract markets by the Secretary of Agriculture, on fulfillment by such boards of certain conditions and requirements set forth in the act.
The bill is filed by eight members of the Board of Trade
of the City of Chicago, who sue in behalf of all other
members of that body who may wish to join and share
in the relief granted, against the Secretary of Agriculture,
the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, the United States
District Attorney for the Northern District of Illinois,
the Collector of Internal Revenue for the first district of
that State, the Board of Trade of the City of Chicago, its
president, vice-presidents and directors. The bill avers
that the appellants applied to the Directors of the Board
of Trade to institute a suit to have the Future Trading Act
adjudged unconstitutional before they should comply with

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Statement of the Case.

259 U. S.

it, but the Board of Directors refused to take any steps,
and announced that they intended to comply with the
provisions of the act; that the Board refused because they
feared to antagonize the public officials whose duty it was
to construe and enforce the act, and the complainants
feared that, acting under the coercion imposed upon them
by the act, the Board of Directors would admit to membership on the Board the representatives of the co6perative associations of producers; that the Secretary of Agriculture would designate such Board as a contract market,
and that such action by the Board of Directors would
cause irreparable injury to the complainants and all the
other members of the Board. Complainants set out the
character of the Board of Trade of Chicago and its organization as a corporation under a special charter of the
State of Illinois in 1859, by which certain persons engaged
in the purchase and sale of grain were created a corporation and given power to admit members, and expel them,
to adopt regulations and by-laws for the management of
the business and the mode in which it should be transacted; to appoint committees of arbitration for the settlement of differences between the members; to appoint
persons to examine, measure, weigh, gauge, inspect, grain
and other articles of produce, with authority to issue a
certificate as to quality or quantity; and to make the
brand or mark thereof evidence between any buyer and
seller assenting to the employment of such person, and to
do and carry on business usual in the management of
boards of trade.
The bill avers that the Board has 1610 members, of
whom the complainants are members in good standing;
that its memberships are salable for more than $7,000
apiece; that in recent years there have been organized in
most of the grain-producing States, among so-called farmers, co~perative societies who desire to market their crops
at actual cost and to market them through the exchanges

HILL v. WALLACE.
44.

Statement of the Case.

at actual cost, and without paying the commissions charged
by the members of such exchange; the plan being to sell
all grain through an authorized member of such organization admitted to the exchange who shall charge the prescribed connission and ultimately rebate back to the
members of such organization the aggregate of such commissions after paying his salary and incidental expenses,
on the basis of the number of bushels of grain which each
producer has sold through said organization; that the
admission of such representatives of co perative societies
to the Chicago Board of Trade would destroy the business
of its members, and the value of the memberships, and
make it difficult for the Board to maintain sufficient
members to pay the assessments to meet the expenses of
its maintenance; that many of its members engage in
making contracts with other members for the purchase
and sale of grain for future delivery; that during the
years from 1884 to 1913, wheat of the grade contemplated
in the contracts for future delivery on the Board sold as
low as 48378 cents per bushel, and never for more than
$2.00 per bushel; and that during most of said time its
price was below $1.00; that during the same years corn
sold as low as 19 cents a bushel, and never higher than
$1.00, and most of the time sold below 60 cents; that oats
sold as low as 1434 cents per bushel and never higher
than 621/.2 cents, and much the greater part of said
period under 40 cents per bushel; that, at the time of
the filing of the bill, contract wheat was selling for $1.05
per bushel, and that no member of the Board could afford
to make contracts for future delivery and pay the tax
thereon imposed by the Future Trading Act of 20 cents
a bushel; that the law in effect prohibits all those who
are not members of a board of trade, which has been
designated by the Secretary of Agriculture a contract market under said act, from making any cQntracts of sales
for future delivery.

48

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Statement of the Case.

259 U. S.

The bill charges that the Future Trading Act violates
the Constitution of the United States (1) in depriving
the members of the Board of their property Without due
process of law, in the compulsory admission to membership on said board of representatives of the co6perative
associations of producers, in accord with § 5 of the act;
(2) in that it attempts to regulate commerce, which is
not commerce with foreign governments or among several States, but is commerce wholly between persons contracting within the State of Illinois respecting the purchase or sale of grain which forms a part of the common
property of that State, and is intrastate and not interstate; (3) in that it violates the Tenth Amendment to
the Constitution, by interfering with the right of the
State of Illinois to provide for and regulate the maintenance of grain exchanges within its borders upon which
are conducted the making of contracts which are merely
intrastate transactions.
The bill avers the complainants are not in collusion
with defendants or any of them to confer on a court of
the United States jurisdiction of a cause of which it
would not otherwise have jurisdiction; and that the
amount involved in the matters in dispute is, exclusive
of interest and costs, more than $3,000.
The decrees prayed for are:
To enjoin the Secretary of Agriculture from taking any
steps to induce or compel the Board of Trade or its directors to comply with the provisions of the act;
To enjoin the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, the
Collector of Internal Revenue and the District Attorney
named as parties from attempting to collect by suits or
prosecutions, or otherwise, any tax, penalty or fine, under
the act; and
To enjoin the Board of Trade and each of its officers
and directors from applying to the Secretary of Agriculture to have the Board designated as a contract market

HILL v. WALLACE.
44.

Argument for Appelants.

under the act, and from admitting to membership into
such board any representative of any coSperative association of producers in compliance with § 5 of the act, or
from taking any other steps to comply with the act.
The Board of Trade and its president, its officers and
directors moved to dismiss the bill of complaint on the
ground that it was without equity on its face and did not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action in a
court of equity.
The Secretary of Agriculture appeared specially to
move the court to dismiss the suit as to him because he
was not a resident of the Northern District of Illinois
and had not been served with process, and the court had
no jurisdiction over him.
The United States Attorney for the Northern District
of Illinois, and the Collector of Internal Revenue, moved
the court to dismiss on the grounds that the suit was to
restrain the collection of a tax contrary to § 3224 of the
Revised Statutes; and that the bill sought to restrain the
enforcement of a criminal statute without showing that
the complainants suffered irreparable injury. The District Court denied the motion for a temporary injunction
and ordered that the bill be dismissed as to all the defendants for want of equity.
Mr. Henry S. Robbins for appellants.
The provision of the Future Tradiig Act (§ -5-e) requiring the exchange to admit to meabership any duly
authorized representative of a cooperative association of
producers, and sanctioning "patronage dividends," deprives the Board of Trade and its members of their property without due process of law.
The provisions which aim to regulate boards of trade
are not within the commerce power of Congress.
Congress by the title has said that parts of this act are
not the exercise of the taxing power, and has left this

50

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Appellants.

259 U.S.

court free to treat as the exercise of the commerce power
those provisions which are clearly regulatory in character.
The question whether the provision of § 5-e which
modifies the commission rule of the exchange in the interest of coSperative associations of producers is within
the commerce power is answered in the negative in Hopkins v. United States, 171 U. S. 578.
All contracts for future delivery of grain made by or
through members of this Board are made in its exchange
room in Chicago during certain market hours only, and
the only parties to these contracts are members then and
there present. Less than one-quarter in volume of these
contracts are performed by delivery, and upon such contracts the delivery is of warehouse receipts entitling the
holders to receive a specified number of bushels of grain
of a particular grade out of a larger common mass in
store. These receipts on their face state that the grain,
for which they are issued, has been mixed with other
grain of the same grade; and when the receipt holder
calls for his grain, the warehouseman, to comply with the
state law, makes delivery out of the grain that has been
longest in store. If any component parts of the common
mass of grain out of which the receipt is filled have come
from other States, they have completely lost their interstate character by this inter-mixing. Such contracts for
the future delivery of grain are not interstate commerce.
Ware &. Leland v. Mobile County, 209 U. S. 405. See
also Engel v. O'Malley, 219 U. S. 139; New York Life
Insurance Co. v. Deer Lodge County, 231 U. S. 495, 511;
Hopkins v. United States, 171 U. S. 578; Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419; May v. New Orleans, 178 U. S. 496;
Austin v. Tennessee, 179 U. S. 343; Purity Extract Co.
v. Lynch, 226 U. S. 192;Weigle v. Curtice Bros. Co., 248
U. S. 285; Public Utilities Commission v. Landon, 249
U. S. 236; Mutual Film Corporationv. Ohio Industrial
Commission, 236 U. S. 230; Askren v. Continental Oil
Co., 252 U. S. 444.

HILL v. WALLACE.
44.

Argument for Appellants.

Contracts which by their terms contemplate the shipment of grain across state lines are, of course, interstate
commerce. But the purpose or intention of some of the
purchasers in this future trading upon this exchange to
ship out of the State property they purchase does not
make their contracts for future delivery made in these
"pits" interstate contracts. And if one such contract is
not, a large number of such contracts do not constitute
interstate commerce. United States v. Knight Co., 156
U. S. 1, 13; Coe v. Errol, 116 U. S. 517; New York Central R. R. Co. v. Mohney, 252 U. S. 152; Arkadelphia
Milling Co. v. St. Louis S. W. Ry. Co., 249 U. S. 134, 151;
Bacon v. Illinois, 227 U. S. 504, 516; Merchants Exchange v. Missouri, 248 U. S. 365; Hammer v. Dagenhart, 247 U. S. 251; Crescent Oil Co. v. Mississippi, 257
U. S. 129. All this future trading, therefore, should be
regarded as intrastate commerce, the regulation of which
is not within the commerce power of Congress.
We have here a non-profit corporation created by a
State, which does no business itself and whose chief function is to furnish in Chicago an exchange hall where its
members individually may conveniently and economically
transact business. To that end it provides for the admission as members of only such persons as seem to it to be
fit in point of character and financial responsibility, it
provides a method by which members, who default on
their contracts or otherwise misbehave, may be suspended
or expelled, it provides rules respecting the terms of the
contracts made by its members in the absence of express
stipulations to the contrary, it provides arbitration committees to decide the business disputes of its members,
and it promulgates and enforces rules to control the business relations of its members to each other and to the
exchange itself. Should all these be treated as together
constituting an instrumentality, which is but an aid to
commerce?

52

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Appellants.

259 U. S.

Much the larger part of the trading between members
in the exchange hall is so-called future trading, which, as
already shown, is not interstate commerce. Another substantial part of the trading in the exchange hall is that
of members who, as agents, receive grain on consignment
to sell and account for the proceeds or buy grain as
agents which, so far as the business of these agents is
concerned, has been held by this court not to be interstate
commerce. The bidding for, or offering, grain by letters
or telegrams sent by members is in no sense a part of the
trading on the exchange. Hence, if any, only a minor
part of the total volume of trading on this exchange possesses any of the characteristics of interstate commerce.
From the foregoing facts does not the conclusion arise
that the maintaining of this exchange hall-and everything that the Board does in connection therewith-lacks
any element of interstate commerce within the definition
that this court has frequently given to that term?
Hence, is not Congress without power to regulate this
exchange? Such seems to have been the practical construction of state and federal legislators for more than
one hundred years prior to the passage of the Future
Trading Act. Hopkins v. United States, 171 U. S. 578,
seems to support the view here urged. Also, Nathan v.
Louisiana, 8 How. 73, 80.
The Board of Trade, in furnishing a building where
traders meet to make contracts-only a small portion of
which relate to grain which has, before the sale on the
exchange is made, come across state lines, or is
to go across state lines after it reaches the purchaser on the exchange-seems to have no more connection with interstate commerce than have the owners of the grain-mixing warehouses of Chicago, which
store much grain that has come from, or is to go to, other
States. Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 135; Covington Bridge
Co. v. Kentucky, 154 U. S. 213; Budd v. New York, 143

HILL v. WALLACE.
44.

Argument for Appellants.

U. S. 517, 545. See Paul v. Virginia, 8 Wall. 168; Hooper
v. California,155 U. S. 648; New York Life Insurance Co.
v. Cravens, 178 U. S. 389; Merchants Exchange v. Missouri, 248 U. S. 365; Brodnax v. Missouri, 219 U. S. 285;
House v. Mayes, 219 U. S. 270; Pittsburg & Southern
Coal Co. v. Louisiana, 156 U. S. 590; Blumenstock Bros.
Advertising Agency v. Curtis Publishing Co., 252 U. S.
436; Williams v. Fears, 179 U. S. 270; Cargill Co. v.
Minnesota, 180 U. S. 452, 470; Ficklen v. Shelby County
Taxing District, 145 U. S. 1; United States Fidelity Co.
v. Kentucky, 231 U. S. 394.
It is not here claimed that, if elevator or board of trade
does some act, which prejudicially touches, or will interfere with interstate commerce-as was claimed of a rule
of this Board in Chicago Board of Trade v. United States,
246 U. S. 231, or if members of an exchange conspire to
run a corner "affecting the entire trade of the country"
in a particular commodity, as in United States v. Patten.
226 U. S. 525,-Congress may not, as to such encroachments, enact a prohibiting act. All that we do contend
is that-considering together this Board of Trade and all
its activities-the general regulation thereof as respects
admissions to membership, commission rates, what, if
any, memoranda of contracts should be made, etc., should
be held to be a part of intrastate commerce, and within
the exclusive power of the State. Hammer v. Dagenhart,
247 U. S. 251, 273, 275.
The Constitution expressly limited the taxing -power
of Congress to certain purposes-which were necessarily
expressed in general terms. It conferred on Congress the
"power to lay and collect taxes, duties, imposts and
excises, to pay [for the purpose of paying] the debts and
provide [providing] for the common defense and general
welfare of the United States."
The protective tariff was then an established governmental system in England and elsewhere, and doubtless

54

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Appellants.

259 U. S.

the Constitution contemplated that in the laying of imposts Congress might fix the duties with a view to excluding importation rather than raising revenue.
But there is no warrant for saying that at that time
the power to lay internal taxes had any other legitimate
purpose than the raising of revenue; or that the States,
in conferring on the National Government a concurrent
power to levy taxes, ever contemplated that Congress
might exercise that power for any other purpose than to
raise revenue.
This, we think, is apparent for this reason: Under
its then existing constitution each State had unlimited power to regulate the commercial and other transactions of its citizens. Resort to a roundabout way of
doing this through the levying of taxes was not necessary.
This is also true of the governments of Europe. There
was nowhere any dual system of government requiring
a written constitution to accurately separate and define
the powers that belong to each of the separate governments, and hence no occasion or incentive to use the taxing power as a cloak to accomplish something other than
getting revenue.
Indeed, does anyone suppose that-considering the pronounced disinclination of the States to surrender their
own powers-the Constitution would have been adopted
by the requisite number of States, if John Marshall in
Virginia and Alexander Hamilton in New York, had responded affirmatively to the question, whether the proper
exercise of power to tax thus to be conferred, included
also the power to regulate, or to prohibit each State from
regulating, its internal trade and other local affairs?
In McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 431, in deciding that a state statute, providing a tax on a branch
of the United States Bank, was an illegal encroachment
upon this federal power, this court made use of the expression, "that the power to tax involves the power to

HILL v. WALLACE.
44.

Argument for Appellants.

destroy." This was only a way of saying that any state
taxing-statute might impair the federal power. It was a
mere phrase, used argumentatively and not to support
a federal statute, but to annul a state statute. In Veazie
Bank v. Fenno, 8 Wall. 533, the power of Congress to
impose a tax on the notes of a state bank was upheld upon
the ground that it was the proper exercise of the power
to provide a circulation of coin and to authorize the emission of letters of credit, although it was also stated-in
answer to the argument that the tax was so excessive as to
indicate the purpose of Congress to destroy the bank's
franchise-that the court could not pronounce the law unconstitutional for the reason "that the tax was excessive." With this as a basis, this phrase of Chief Justice
Marshall-that the power to tax involves the power to
destroy-has now become in the minds of many in and out
of Congress a fixed legal maxim, by which the powers of
Congress are to be measured. Congress now treats it as
fully warranting the use of the taxing power to regulate
or prohibit whatever it may not otherwise regulate or
prohibit.
But Congress has not always thought that the power
to tax implied the power to regulate or destroy. In 1892
a bill passed one House of Congress, commonly known as
the "Hatch Anti-Option Bill," which-like the present
act-excepted from its provisions contracts for future
delivery of grain when made by farmers. It imposed a
tax of 20 cents a bushel on all other contracts for the
future delivery of grain, required every person engaged in
the business of making such contracts to take out a license,
and required that the terms of all such contracts should
be in writing, and be recorded in books. The purpose
was, by the size of the tax, to suppress all future trading.
But it was defeated in the Senate, largely by the arguments against its constitutionality. One of these was by
Senator (afterwards Chief 'Justice) White, who argued

56

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Appellees.

259 U. S.

that the bill was " flagrantly unconstitutional legislation."
39 Cong. Rec. 6513, 6515-6517.
This court was not yet decided that where, as here, the
law does not profess to be solely a taxing measure, but
by its title and its terms is also a law regulating something which it is beyond the power of Congress to regulate,
the statute must be sustained under the taxing power.
To so hold would be to shut one's eyes to the real purpose
of the law, when Congress had disclosed that motive and
purpose in the terms of the statute.
Distinguishing: McCray v. United States, 195 U. S.
27; United States v. Dewitt, 9 Wall. 41; License Tax
Cases, 5 Wall. 462; United States v. Doremus, 249 U. S.
86, 93.
Mr. Solicitor General Beck, with whom Mr. Blackburn
Esterline, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, Mr.
R. W. Williams, and Mr. Fred.Lees were on the brief, for
appellees.
"Trading in futures" and the evils attendant thereupon are subjects with which both legislative and judicial
bodies have long been familiar. If extraneous light for
the proper interpretation of the statute is helpful, the
"history of the times" or "the environment at the time
of the enactment of a particular law-that is, the history
of the period when it was adopted "-may be resorted to.
Chicago Board of Trade v. United States, 246 U. S. 231,
238.
As to the history and purposes of the act see: Report
of Federal Trade Commission on the Grain Trade, September 15, 1920, vol. I, p. 315; Report, Senate Committee
on Agriculture, 67th Cong., 1st sess., Sen. Rep. No. 212;
Appendix D, statement of Senator Capper, August 9,
1921, 61 Cong. Rec., pp. 5220-5227.
The court has long been familiar with the organization
of the Chicago Board of Trade and its methods of trans-

HILL v. WALLACE.
44.

Argument for Appellees.

acting business. Nicol v. Ames, 173 U. S. 509; Clews v.
Jamieson, 182 U. S. 461; Board of Trade v. Christie Grain
& Stock Co., 198 U. S. 236; Chicago Board of Trade v.
United States, 246 U. S. 231. The Supreme Court of
Illinois has frequently considered the same subjects.
Pickering v. Cease; 79 Ill. 328; Lyon v. Culbertson, 83
Ill. 33; Pearce v. Foote, 113 Ill. 228; Cothran v. Ellis,
125 Ill. 496; New York & Chicago Grain & Stock Exchange v. Board of Trade, 127 Ill. 153; Schneider v.
Turner, 130 Ill. 28; Soby v. People, 134 Ill. 66; Central
Stock Exchange v. Board of Trade, 196 Ill. 396; Weare
Commission Co. v. People, 209 Ill. 528, affirming 111 Ill.
App. 116; Board of Trade v. Dickinson, 114 Ill. App. 295.
The motives of Congress in laying the tax and fixing
the amount of it may not be inquired into. McCray v.
United States, 195 U. S. 27, 59; Hammer v. Dagenhart,
247 U. S. 251,276; Treat v. White, 181 U. S. 264, 269;
Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cr. 87, 130, 131; Lottery Cases, 188
U. S. 321. In the last cited case the commerce power
was used to discourage gambling in lotteries as the taxing
power is now used to discourage gambling in the greatest
staple of commerce.
The fact that the tax may be burdensome even to the
extent of causing the discontinuance of the particular
business affected will not influence the court in reaching
its judgment. Patton v. Brady, 184 U. S. 608, 623;
Spencer v. Merchant, 125 U. S. 345, 355; Alaska Fish Co.
v. Smith, 255 U. S. 44, 48.
The provision for admission to membership in the
Board of Trade of a representative of a co~perative association is not a taking of property without due process
of law.
The Future Trading Act is essentially a taxing statute.
This is not less so even if the court assumed that the tax
was prohibitive, but there is nothing before the court
which would justify the belief that the tax is prohibitive.

58

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Appellees.

259 U. S.

The provisions, other than that which imposes the tax,
are merely a method of classification. The power to
classify subjects for taxation, in order to determine when
the tax is imposed and when it is not, is certainly as great
or greater than the like power of classification in the
exercise of any other constitutional power. This being
so, the propriety of the classification in this instance is
justified in the case of Lewis Publishing Co. v. Morgan,
229 U. S. 288. See McCray v. United States, 195 U. S.
27, 61, 62; American Sugar Refining Co. v. Louisiana,
179 U. S. 89, 92; Flint v. Stone Tracy Co., 220 U. S. 107,
158; German Alliance Insurance Co. v. Kansas, 233 U. S.
389, 418; Rast v. Van Deman & Lewis Co., 240 U. S. 342,
357; Tanner v. Little, 240 U. S. 369, 382; Alaska Fish Co.
v. Smith, 255 U. S. 44, 48, 49.
Precedents for the classification made by the Future
Trading Act are found in other statutes, the constitutionality of which has been upheld by this court. The oleomargarine tax; the tax on sugar refineries, excepting
farmers and planters grinding and refining their own
molasses; the tax on state bank notes, inapplicable to
national bank notes; the tax on phosphorus matches but
not on other matches; the tax on sales of boards of trade
but not sales made elsewhere.
The tax is not a direct tax upon the property but a tax
on the privilege of selling the property for future delivery.
Nicol v. Ames, 173 U. S. 509, 519, 520; Thomas v. United
States, 192 U. S. 363, 371.
The tax is uniform throughout the United States and
therefore within the constitutional requirement.
For a hundred years the use of the taxing power has not
been limited to the raising of revenue alone, but, through
the protective tariff, has been employed to encourage
industries in this country. In the application of the
tariff, Congress has looked to the "general welfare" of
the country, as is done in the case of the Future Trading

HILL v. WALLACE.
44.

Argument for Appellees.

Act, and not merely to the raising of revenue. In laying
a tax, Congress necessarily uses discretion, imposing the
burden upon those objects which are least useful or valuable to the public, or perhaps even hurtful to its interests, thereby aiding and encouraging those objects which
are of greater use or value to the public. The use of the
taxing power to promote the moral welfare of the nationas the heavy duties on liquors or tobacco-is as old as the
taxing power. The tax imposed by the Future Trading
Act puts the burden upon the least necessary and perhaps
the harmful transactions affecting the grain market of the
country, and at the same time provides for the making
of the transactions necessary to the growers and users of
grain.
Even though the tax may be heavy enough to cause
discontinuance of the present manner of conducting the
business, still a reasonable method of preserving the business, and one which Congress believes is for the public
welfare, is provided. The price of cash grain is influenced by quotations on the future markets. If, for reasons peculiar to exchange methods and transactions, the
price of futures is depressed unduly, as frequently happens, by conditions not in anywise connected with the
total available supply of grain or the demand therefor,
an indefensible economic and commercial condition arises,
harmful to all persons owning or dealing in cash grain,
including not only the farmer, but the grain merchant as
well. That the taxing power may be used in this way is
well settled. Bell's Gap R. R. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 134
U. S. 232, 237; Alaska Fish Co. v. Smith, 255 U. S. 44, 49.
Precedents are to be found in the Cotton Futures Act,
August 11, 1916, 39 Stat. 446, 476; the Warehouse Act,
August 11, 1916, 39 Stat. 486; the Cotton Futures Act
(as originally enacted,) August 18, 1914, 38 Stat. 693,
upheld in Hubbard v. Lowe, 226 Fed. 135, 137.
The supertax is not a new device in the history of our
legislation. It was as long ago as 1866 applied to the

60

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

circulation of state bank notes (14 Stat. 146); in 1886,
to the sale of artificially colored oleomargarine (24 Stat.
209; 32 Stat. 193), and in 1912, to the manufacture of
phosphorus matches (37 Stat. 81). The first of these
two statutes was sustained in Veazie Bank v. Fenno, 8
Wall. 533, and the second in McCray v. United States,
195 U. S. 27.
The taxing power of Congress is not limited to the
purpose of raising revenue. Story, Const., §§ 965, 973.
Congress could lay a tax on the privilege of doing a
warehouse business and except warehouses operated
under federal license, as it did by the Warehouse Act of
August 11, 1916. The Future Trading Act does no more
than this except that the two provisions-the laying of
the tax and the means of avoiding it-are combined in
one act. The State is still left free to legislate as it
pleases with reference to future trading. Designation as
a contract market would not authorize the Board of
Trade or its members to violate any state law; on the
contrary, they would have to comply with it. See United
States v. Doremus, 249 U. S. 86, 92.
The Future Trading Act may readily be sustained as
an act to regulate commerce. Board of Trade v. Christie
Grain & Stock Co., 198 U. S. 236, 247; Otis v. Parker,
187 U. S. 606, 609; Chicago Board of Trade v. United
States, 246 U. S. 231.
An exchange which deals in the purchase and sale of
more grain than the whole world either produces or consumes must have a very real relation to interstate and
foreign commerce. Dahnke-Walker Milling Co. v. Bondurant, 257 U. S. 282.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT, after making the foregoing
statement of the case, delivered the opinion of the court.
The first question for our consideration is whether, assuming the act to be invalid, the complainants on the

HILL v. WALLACE.
44.

Opinion of the Court.

face of their bill state sufficient equitable grounds to justify granting the relief they ask. We think it clear that
within the cases of Smith v. Kansas City Title & Trust
Co., 255 U. S. 180; Brushaber v. Union Pacific R. R. Co.,
240 U. S. 1, 10; Pollock v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co.,
157 U. S. 429, and Dodge v. Woolsey, 18 How. 331, 341,
346, the averments of the bill entitle them to relief against
the Board of Trade of Chicago, its president and its directors. The bill shows that the act, if enforced, will
seriously injure the value of the Board of Trade to its
members, and the pecuniary value.of their memberships.
If the law be unconstitutional, then it was the duty of the
Board of Directors to bring an action to resist its enforcement. It is quite like the case of Dodge v. Woolsey, in
which the court said with respect to a similar refusal (p.
345):
"Now, in our view, the refusal upon the part of the
directors, by their own showing, partakes more of disregard of duty, than of an error of judgment. It was
a non-performance of a confessed official obligation,
amounting to what the law considers a breach of trust,
though it may not involve intentional moral delinquency.
It was a mistake, it is true, of what their duty required
from them, according to their own sense of it, but, baing a
duty by their own confession, their refusal was an act outside of the obligation which the charter imposed upon
them to protect what they conscientiously believed to be
the franchises of the bank. A sense of duty and conduct
contrary to it, is not 'an error of judgment merely,' and
cannot be so called in any case."
The averments of the bill are that the Board of Directors refused the request to bring the suit because they
feared to antagonize the public officials whose duty it was
to construe and enforce the act, and not because they
thought the act was constitutional. They must be taken
to have admitted this by the motion to dismiss.

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 13. S.

In Wathen v. Jackson Oil & Refining Co., 235 ,U. S.
635, and in Corbus v. Alaska Treadwell Gold Mining Co.,
187 U. S. 455, thought to cast doubt upon the sufficiency
of the averments, made herein to sustain complainants'
right to file the bill, there had been no request made of the
corporation or the Board of Directors to bring suit and no
refusal, both of which are present in the case at bar.
A further question arises as to whether this is a suit for
an injunction against the collection of the tax in violation pf § 3224, Rev. Stats., in so far as it seeks relief
against the District Attorney and Collector of Internal
Revenue. Were this a state act, injunction would certainly issue, against such officers under the decisions in
Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 123; Ohio Tax Cases, 232 U. S.
576, 587; McFarland v. American Sugar Refining Co.,
241 U. S. 79, 82. Does § 3224, Rev. Stats., prevent the
application of similar principles to a federal taxing act?
It has been held by this court, in Dodge v. Brady, 240
U. S. 122, 126, that § 3224 of the Revised Statutes does not
prevent an injunction in a case apparently within its terms
in which some extraordinary and entirely exceptional circumstances make its provisions inapplicable. See also
Dodge v. Osborn, 240 U. S. 118, 122. In the case before us,
a sale of grain for future delivery without paying the tax
will subject one to heavy criminal penalties. To pay the
heavy tax on each of many daily transactions which occur
in the ordinary business of a member of the exchange, and
then sue to recover it back would necessitate a multiplicity
of suits and, indeed, would be impracticable. For the
Board of Trade to refuse to apply for designation as a contract market in order to test the validity of the act would
stop its 1600 members in a branch of their business most
important to themselves and to the country. We think
these exceptional and extraordinary circumstances with
respect to the operation of this act make § 3224 inapplicable. The right to sue for an injunction against the

HILL v. WALLACE.
44.

Opinion of the Court.

taxing officials is not, however, necessary to give us jurisdiction. If they were to be dismissed under § 3224, the
bill would still raise the question here mooted against the
Board of Trade and its directors. The Solicitor General
has appeared on behalf of the Government and argued the
case in full on all the issues. Our conclusion as to the
validity of the act will, therefore, have the same effect as
did the judgment of the court in respect to the income
tax law in Pollock v. Farmers'Loan & Trust Co., 157 U. S.
429, to which the Government was not a party but in
which the Attorney General on its behalf was heard as
amicus curiae.
The act whose constitutionality is attacked is entitled
"An Act Taxing contracts for the sale of grain for future
delivery, and options for such contracts, and providing
for the regulation of boards of trade, and for other purposes." (Italics ours.)
Section 4 imposes a tax, in addition to any imposed by
law, of 20 cents a bushel involved in every contract of sale
of grain for future delivery, with two exceptions. The
first exception is where the seller holds and owns the grain
at the time of sale, or is the owner or renter of land on
which the grain is to be grown, or is an association made of
such owners or renters. The second exception is where
such contracts are made by or through a member of the
Board of Trade designated by the Secretary of Agriculture as a contract market, and are evidenced by a memorandum containing certain particulars to be kept for a
period of three years or as much longer as the Secretary of
Agriculture shall direct and to be open to official inspection. This tax on sale contracts for future delivery
is in addition to a tax now imposed by the Revenue Act
of February 24, 1919, c. 18, 40 Stat. 1057, 1136, Title XI,
Schedule A, of 2 cents on every hundred dollars in value
of such sales.
Section 5 authorizes the Secretary of Agriculture to
designate boards of trade as contract markets when and

64

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

only when such boards comply with certain conditions
and requirements, as follows:
a. When located at a terminal market where cash grain
is sold in sufficient amount and under such conditions as
to reflect the value of the grain in its different grades, and
where there is recognized official weighing and inspection
service;
b. When the governing body of the Board adopts rules
and enforces them, requiring its members to make and
keep the memorandum of all transactions in grain
whether cash or for future delivery as directed by the
Secretary;
c. When the governing body prevents the dissemination by the Board or any member thereof of false, misleading, or inaccurate reports, concerning crop or market
information or conditions that affect or tend to affect the
price of commodities.
d. When the governing board provides for the prevention of manipulation of prices, or the cornering of any
grain, by the dealers or operators upon such board.
e. When the governing body admits to membership on
the Board and all its privileges any authorized representative of any lawfully formed and conducted co~perative
associations of producers having adequate financial responsibility; "Provided, That no rule of a contract market
against rebating commissions shall apply to the distribution of earnings among bona fide members of any such cooperative association."
f. When the governing body of the Board shall make
effective the orders and decisions of the commission appointed under § 6.
Section 6 provides that any board of trade desiring to
be designated as a contract market shall apply to the
Secretary of Agriculture, with a showing that it complies
with the conditions already stipulated in § 5, and a sufficient assurance of future compliance. The section ap-

HILL v. WALLACE.
44.

Opinion of the Court.

points a commission of the Secretary of Agriculture, the
Secretary of Commerce, and the Attorney General, who
may, after due notice to the officers of the Board, suspend
for six months or revoke the designation of any board as a
contract market, upon a showing of failure to comply
with the requirements of § 5.
Provisions are made for an appeal from this order to
the Circuit Court of Appeals, and appeal is granted to the
commission from the refusal of the Secretary of Agriculture, upon application, to designate any board as a contract market.
Section 6 also provides that if the Secretary of Agriculture has reason to believe that any person is violating any
provisions of the act or is attempting to manipulate the
market price of grain in violation of the provisions of § 5,
or any of the rules or regulations made pursuant to its
requirements, he may have served upon such persons a
complaint for a hearing before a referee, to take evidence,
to be transmitted to the Secretary as chairman of the
commission, and the commission may, after a finding of
guilt, issue an order requiring all contract markets to refuse such person trade or privileges. This order may be
revised in the Circuit Court of Appeals.
Section 7 provides that the tax imposed shall be paid
by the seller and shall be collected either by affixing
stamps or by such other method as may be prescribed
by the published regulations of the Secretary of the
Treasury.
Section 10 provides a penalty for any person who shall
fail to evidence the contract of sale he makes by memorandum or to keep the record of it, or to pay the tax as
provided in §§ 4 and 5, with a penalty of 50 per cent. of
the tax and a punishment as a misdemeanor and a fine
of $10,000, with imprisonment for one year or both and
the costs of the prosecution.

66

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

It is impossible to escape the conviction, from a full
reading of this law, that it was enacted for the purpose of
regulating the conduct of business of boards of trade
through supervision of the Secretary of Agriculture and
the use of an administrative tribunal consisting of that
Secretary, the Secretary of Commerce, and the Attorney
General. Indeed the title of the act recites that one of
its purposes is the regulation of boards of trade. As the
bill shows, the imposition of 20 cents a bushel on the
various grains affected by the tax is most burdensome.
The tax upon contracts for sales for future delivery under
the Revenue-Act is only 2 cents upon $100 of value,
whereas this tax varies according to the price and character of the grain from 15 per cent. of its value to 50 per
cent. The manifest purpose of the tax is to compel
boards of trade to comply with regulations, many of
which can have no relevancy to the collection of the tax
at all. Even if we conceded, as we do not, that the keeping of a memorandum and of the particulars of each sale
as a record for three years or more, not only of contracts
for future delivery, but also of cash sales, neither of which
are subject to tax in designated boards of trade, would
help taxing officers in any way to detect the evasions of
this tax outside of such boards, no such construction can
be put upon the pr6visions which require the board of
trade to prevent a dissemination of false or misleading
reports or to prevent the manipulation of prices or the
cornering of grain or which enforce the admission to
membership in the Board of the representatives of cooperative associations of producers or the abrogation of
rules against rebate as applied to such representatives.
The act is in essence and on its face a complete regulation
of boards of trade, with a penalty of 20 cents a bushel on
all "futures" to coerce boards of trade and their members
into compliance. When this purpose is declared in the
title to the bill, and is so clear from the effect of the pro-

HILL v. WALLACE.
44.

Opinion of the Court.

visions of the bill itself, it leaves no ground upon which
the provisions we have been considering can be sustained
as a valid exercise of the taxing power. The elaborate
machinery for hearings by the Secretary of Agriculture
and by the commission of violations of these regulations,
with the withdrawal by the commission of the designation of the Board as a contract market, and of complaints
against persons who violate the act or such regulations,
and the imposition upon them of the penalty of requiring all boards of trade to refuse to permit them the usual
privileges, only confirm this view.
Our decision, just announced, in the Child Labor Tax
Case, ante, 20, involving the constitutional validity of
the Child Labor Tax" Law, completely covers this case.
We there distinguish between cases like Veazie Bank v.
Fenno, 8 Wall. 533, and McCray v. United States, 195
U. S. 27, in which it was held that this court could not
limit the discretion of Congress in the exercise of its constitutional powers to levy excise taxes because the court
might deem the incidence of the tax oppressive or even
destructive. It was pointed out that in none of those
cases did the law objected to show on its face, as did the
Child Labor Tax Law, detailed regulation of a concern
or business wholly within the police power of the State,
with a heavy exaction to promote the efficacy of such
regulation. We there say (pp. 37, 38):
"Out of a proper respect for the acts of a co6rdinate
branch of the Government, this court has gone far to sustain taxing acts as such, even though there has been
ground for suspecting from the weight of the tax it was
intended to destroy its subject. But, in the act before us,
the presumption of validity cannot prevail, because the
proof of the contrary is found on the very face of its provisions. Grant the validity of this law, and all that Congress would need to do, hereafter, in seeking to take over
to its control any one of the great number of subjects of

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

public interest, jurisdiction of which the States have never
parted with, and which are reserved to them by the Tenth
Amendment, would be to enact a detailed measure of complete regulation of the subject and enforce it by a socalled tax upon departures from it. To give such magic
to the word 'tax' would be to break down all constitutional limitation of the powers of Congress and completely
wipe out the sovereignty of the States."
This has complete application to the act before us, and
requires us to hold that the provisions of the act we have
been discussing can not be sustained as an exercise of the
taxing power of Congress conferred by § 8, Article I.
We come to the question then, Can these regulations
of boards of trade by Congress be sustained under the
commerce clause of the .Constitution? Such regulations
are held to be within the police powers of the State.
House v. Mayes, 219 U. S. 270; Brodnax v. Missouri, 219
U. S. 285. There is not a word in the act from which it
can be gathered that it is confined in its operation to interstate commerce. The words "interstate commerce" are
not to be found in any part of the act from the title to
the closing section. The transactions upon which the tax
is to be imposed, the bill avers, are sales made between
members of the Board of Trade in the City of Chicago for
future delivery of grain, which will be settled by the process of offsetting purchases or by a delivery of warehouse
receipts of grain stored in Chicago. Looked at in this
aspect and without any limitation of the application of
the tax to interstate commerce, or to that which the
Congress may deem from evidence before it to be an obstruction to interstate commerce, we do not find it possible
to sustain the validity of the regulations as they are set
forth in this act. A reading of the act makes it quite clear
that Congress sought to use the taxing power to give
validity to the act. It did not have the exercise of its
power under the commerce clause in mind and so did not

HILL v. WALLACE.
44.

Opinion of the Court.

introduce into the act the limitations which certainly
would accompany and mark an exercise of the power
under the latter clause.
In Ware & Leland v. Mobile County, 209 U. S. 405,
it was held that contracts for the sale of cotton for future
delivery which do not oblige interstate shipments are
not subjects of interstate commerce, and that a state tax
on persons engaged in buying and selling cotton for future
delivery was not a regulation of interstate commerce or
beyond the power of the State.
It follows that sales for future delivery on the Board
of Trade are not in and of themselves interstate commerce. They can not come within the regulatory power
of Congress s such, unless they are regarded by Congress, from the evidence before it, as directly interfering
with interstate commerce so as to be an obstruction or a
burden thereon. United States v. Ferger, 250 U. S. 199.
It was upon this principle that in Stafford v. Wallace, 258
U. S. 495, we held it to be within the power of Congress
to regulate business in the stockyards of the country, and
include therein the regulation of commission men and
of traders there, although they had to do only with sales
completed and ended within the yards, because Congress
had concluded that through exorbitant charges, dishonest
practices and collusion they were likely, unless regulated,
to impose a direct burden on the interstate commerce
passing through.
So, too, in United States v. Patten, 226 U. S. 525, it
was held that though this court, as we have seen, had
decided in the Ware & Leland Case that mere contracts
for sales of cotton for future delivery which did not oblige
interstate shipments were not interstate commerce, an
indictment charging the defendants with having cornered
the whole cotton market of the United States by excessive
purchases of cotton for future delivery and thus conspired to restrain, obstruct and monopolize interstate

70

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

commerce in cotton, was sustained under the first and
second sections of the Sherman Anti-Trust Law. This
case, like Stafford v. Wallace, followed the principles of
Swift & Co. v. United States, 196 U. S. 375. But the
form and limitations of the act before us form no such
basis as those cases presented for federal jurisdiction and
the exercise of the power to protect interstate commerce.
Our conclusion makes it necessary for us to hold § 4 and
those parts of the act which are regulations affected by the
so-called tax imposed by § 4, to be unenforceable.
Section 11 of this act directs that "if any provision of
this Act or the application thereof to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the validity of the remainder
of the Act and of the application of sucb provision to
other persons and circumstances shall not be affected
thereby."
Section 4 with its penalty to secure compliance with
the regulations of Boards of Trade is so interwoven with
those regulations that they can not be separated. None of
them can stand. Section 11 did not intend the court to
dissect an unconstitutional measure and reframe a valid
one out of it by inserting limitations it does not contain.
This is legislative work beyond the power and function of
the court. In United States v. Reese, 92 U. S.214, presenting a similar question as to a criminal statute, Chief
Justice Waite said (p. 221):
"We are not able to reject a part which is unconstitutional, and retain the remainder, because it is not possible
to separate that which is unconstitutional, if there be
any such, from that which is not. The proposed effect is
not to be attained by striking out or disregarding words
that are in the section, but by inserting those that are
not now there. Each of the sections must stand as a
whole, or fall together. The language is plain. There
is no room for construction, unless it be as to the effect
of the Constitution. The question, then, to be deter-

HILL v. WALLACE.
44.

Opinion of the Court.

mined, is, whether we can introduce words of limitation
into a penal statute so as to make it specific, when, as
expressed, it is general only. . . . To limit this statute in the manner now asked for would be to make a
new law, not to enforce an old one. This is no part of
our duty."
Trade-Mark Cases, 100 U. S. 82; Butts v. Merchants
& Miners TransportationCo., 230 U. S. 126.
To be sure in the cases cited there was no saving provision like § 11, and undoubtedly such a provision furnishes assurance to courts that they may properly sustain
separate sections or provisions of a partly invalid act without hesitation or doubt as to whether they would have
been adopted, even if the legislature had been advised
of the invalidity of part. But it does not give the court
power to amend the act.
There are sections of the act to which under § 11 the
reasons for our conclusion as to § 4 and the interwoven
regulations do not apply. Such is § 9 authorizing investigations by the Secretary of Agriculture and his publication of results. Section 3, too, would not seem to be
affected by our conclusion. It provides:
"That in addition to the taxes now imposed by law
there is hereby levied a tax amounting to 20 cents per
bushel on each bushel involved therein, whether the actual
commodity is intended to be delivered or only nominally
referred to, upon each and every privilege or option for
a contract either of purchase or sale of grain, intending
hereby to tax only the transactions known to the trade
as 'privileges,' ' bids,' ' offers,' ' puts and calls,' ' indemnities,' or ' ups and downs.'"
This is the imposition of an excise tax upon certain
transactions of a unilateral character in grain markets
which approximate gambling or offer full opportunity for
it and does not seem to be associated with § 4. Such a
tax without more would seem to be within the congres-

72

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Brandeis, J., concurring.

259 U. S.

sional power. Treat v. White, 181 U. S. 264; Nicol v.
Ames, 173 U. S. 509; Thomas v. United States, 192 U. S.
363. But these are questions which are not before us and
upon which we wish to express no definite opinion.
The injunction against the Board of Trade and its
officers, and the injunction against the Collector of Internal Revenue and the District Attorney, should be granted,
so far as § 4 is concerned and the regulations of the act
interwoven within it. The court below acquired no personal jurisdiction of the Secretary of Agriculture and the
Commissioner of Internal Revenue by proper service and
the dismissal as to them was right.
The decree of the District Court is reversed, and the
cause is remanded for further proceedings in conformity
to this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS, concurring.
I agree that the Future Trading Act is unconstitutional;
but I doubt whether the plaintiffs are in a position to
require the court to pass upon the constitutional question
in this case. It seems proper to state the reasons for
my doubt.
In essence this is a suit by eight members of the Chicago
Board of Trade to prevent its directors and officers from
accepting the offer of the Government to designate it a
"contract market." The act does not require the corporation to become a "contract market." If-and only
if-it elects to become such, must its rules, and the conduct of its business, conform to requirements prescribed
by the act or the Secretary of Agriculture. In that event
its members may likewise be subjected individually to
some slight additional trouble and expense; for the Secretary of Agriculture may require a more detailed record of
transactions than is ordinarily kept and may require that
the records be preserved three years. Members may, in
that event, also suffer individually some loss of business

HILL v. WALLACE.
44.

Brandeis, J., concurring.

through the competition of representatives of producers
co~perative organizations who are to be admitted to the
privileges of the exchange if it becomes a "contract market." On the other hand, by acceptance of the designation as a "contract market" members of the Board of
Trade would be relieved from all danger of liability for
taxes on their future trading; and if the act is enforced
generally, the profits of the individual members may increase largely; because the general public, being debarred
by the act from gambling on futures in bucket shops, will
naturally turn to the few "contract markets" when desiring to speculate in futures.
To decide whether the corporation and its members
will be benefited or injured by its becoming a "contract
market" is a matter calling for the exercise of business
judgment. The charter vests in the directors and managers broad powers; and, so far as appears, there is nothing in the by-laws or in the nature of the action proposed
which prevents their exercising freely their judgment in
this, as in other matters affecting the business. No radical
or fundamental change in the object, character or methods
of the business of the corporation or of its members is
involved. There is no allegation that the directors and
managing officers are incapacitated from acting because
their interests are adverse to the corporation or its members; or that their action should be interfered with because
they are purposing to exercise their powers fraudulently
or otherwise in violation of their trust. Nor is it alleged
*that efforts have been made to control their action by
calling a meeting of the 1600 members or that such efforts
would be vain, or that there is an emergency requiring interposition of a court of equity. The requirements of
Equity Rule 27 are not complied with by alleging simply
that plaintiffs requested the Board of Directors "to institute a suit to have said Future Trading Act adjudged unconstitutional" and that the plaintiffs "are informed and

74

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Brandeis, J., concurring.

259 U.S.

believe that said Board of Directors refused said request
because they fear to antagonize the public officials whose
duty it is to construe and enforce said Act."
That under such circumstances a stockholder's bill is
fatally defective, although it was brought to restrain the
enforcement of a statute alleged to be unconstitutional,
is well settled; and the rule has been recently applied.
Wathen v. Jackson Oil & Refining Co., 235 U. S. 635;
Corbus v. Alaska Treadwell Gold Mining Co., 187 U. S.
455. In the case at bar, plaintiffs' case is still weaker than
it was in those cited. For aught that appears most of the
members of the exchange, as well as its directors and managing officers, may be of opinion that they will be benefited
by the enforcement of the act. Nothing is better settled
than that an individual may acquiesce in or waive an admitted infringement of a constitutional right; and I am
not aware of any rule of law which requires a corporation,
upon request of a minority stockholder, to play the
knight-errant and tilt at every statute affecting it, which
he believes to be invalid. A corporation, like an individual, may refrain from embarking in litigation to enforce even a clear right of action if litigation is deemed
inadvisable; and it is immaterial, in this respect, whether
the right of action arises at common law or under a statute
or under a constitutional provision. Nor do I know of
any reason why the disadvantages which may flow from
"antagonizing public officials" may not properly be considered by directors and managing officers of a corporation
in determining whether to embark in litigation. The fear
of antagonizing customers or other business connections
or the public is a motive which quite commonly and
properly influences the conduct of men.
If, after the corporation has become a "contract market" its directors and managing officers should seek to
subject the plaintiffs, as members, to unauthorized restrictions or should attempt to deprive them of vested rights,

AMERICAN SMELTING CO. v. IT. S.
44.

75

Syllabus.

relief may, of course, be had in a proper proceeding.

And likewise if the plaintiffs now have, as individuals,
rights entitled to protection, there are appropriate remedies. But this is not such a suit. Here members of a corporation seek to enforce alleged derivative rights; and I
doubt whether they have shown that they are in a position

to do so.
AMERICAN SMELTING AND REFINING COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 221.

Argued April 25, 1922.-Decided May 15, 1922.

1. A contract made during war for war material to be delivered by
a specified date, which was as early as delivery would be practicable under the circumstances, is within the exception of Rev.
Stats., § 3709, dispensing with advertising for purchases when
public exigencies require immediate delivery. P. 78.
2. The formalities of Rev. Stats. § 3709, are to protect the United
States, not the seller. P. 78.
3. The fact that an offer and an acceptance by correspondence are
both made in express contemplation of a more formal document
to follow does not prevent their constituting a contract. P. 78.
4. At a time when a price for copper to the Government had been
fixed under Act of August 29, 1916, c. 418, § 2, 39 Stat. 649,
claimant received from the War Department a proposal in writing for delivery of a stated amount at that price before a certain
date under shipping orders to be supplied by the Department
and accepted it in writing at the Department's request and upon
its advice that no payment could be made without such acceptance. Held:
(a) A contract, and not a requisition under the National Defense
Act of June 3, 1916, c. 134, § 120, 39 Stat. 213, which authorized,
in addition to purchase, the obtaining of material by compulsory
orders, for a fair and just compensation. P. 78.
(b) The claimant, having completed deliveries after alleged delays
in shipping orders and after the government price had been increased under the Act of August 29, 1916, supra, could not, in
respect of such deliveries, claim freedom from the contract because

