182

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

259 U. S.

sylvania it will be unlawful for the new Reading Company
as a railroad company to continue to own it. Questions
as to the propriety and legality of this holding of the old
Reading Company did not arise when the case was before
this court originally and do not arise on the record before
us now in any. such way as to enable us to say whether
the federal commodities clause or the constitution of
Pennsylvania will thus be violated in carrying out the
plan by which the Reading Company is to become a railroad company. This must be determined by the District
Court in further hearings and consideration at the time
the final decree comes to be settled in accordance with
our mandate, when it will have authority to modify the
plan in this respect to satisfy the requirements of law.
The decree of the District Court is affirmed with modifications already indicated and the case is remanded for
further proceedings in conformity to this opinion
Affirmed with modifications.
MR. JuSTICE BRANDEIS took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.
INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENT COMMISSION OF THE
STATE OF CALIFORNIA ET AL. v. DAVIS, AS
AGENT, &c. (LOS ANGELES & SALT LAKE RAILWAY COMPANY).
CERTIORARI TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF APPEAL, SECOND APPELLATE DISTRICT; DIVISION TWO, OF THE STATE OF CALI- FORNIA.

No. 224. Submitted April 28, 1922.-Decided May 29, 1922.
An engine was sent from exclusive employment in interstate commerce to the general repair shops of the railway company, December 19th, for general overhauling, the repairs, which involved
partial dismantling, were completed on the 25th of the following
February, and the engine, after a trial, was returned to service, in
interstate commerce a week later. Held that an employee, injured

INDUSTRIAL COMMISSION v. DAVIS.
182.

183

Opinion of the Court.

in the work on February 1st, was not then employed in interstate
commerce, and that his action for the injury was under the state
law, and not the Federal Employers' Liability Act. P. 185.
Shanks v. Delaware, Lackawanna & Western R. R. Co., 239
U. S. 556.
50 Cal. App. 161, reversed.
CERTIORmRI to a judgment of the court below reversing,

for want of jurisdiction, an award of compensation for
personal injuries, made by the petitioner Commission in
favor of the petitioner Burton against the respondent.
Mr. Warren H. Pillsbury for petitioners.
Mr. A. S. Halsted, Mr. Alexander Britton and Mr.
Charles H. Bates for respondent. Mr. FredE. Pettit, Jr.,
and Mr. E. E. Bennett were also on the brief.

MR. JUSTICE McKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court
0. J. Burton, one of the petitioners, received injuries
while working in the general repair shops of the Railway
Company upon an engine that had been employed
in interstate commerce and which was destined to be so
employed again, and the question is whether redress for
the injury must be sought through the Workmen's Compensation Act of California (c. 586, California Statutes
1917) or under the provisions of the Federal Employers'
Liability Act (35 Stat. 65).
The proceedings were instituted by Burton by an application to the Industrial Accident Commission of the State
which set forth the facts of his injury, and prayed compensatory relief. Payne and the Railway Company answered, setting up the defense of interstate commerce and
the federal act, and that the accident was caused by Burton's misconduct. The Commission awarded relief. On
petition for review by Payne and the Railway Company,
the District Court of Appeal granted a certiorari and reversed the award of the Commission.

184

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

The court, after stating the facts, expressed the view
that "the sole question presented for" its consideration
was whether "the engine at the time of the accident,
[was] engaged in interstate commerce, within the meaning of the Federal Employers' Liability Act (35 Stat. 65)"
and concluded, after a review of cases, that Burton's work
was "so intimately connected with interstate commerce
as practically to be a part of it, and therefore," the Commission "had no jurisdiction ".
The facts are not in dispute. It was stipulated that
while Burton was drilling and tapping the boiler of the
engine a piece of steel lodged in his left eye; that this was
in the course of his employment and caused thereby, and
occurred while he was performing service growing out of
and incidental to the same.
We may assume, though the fact is contested, that the
engine was sent from exclusive employment in interstate
commerce to the repair shops. It was sent there for general overhauling December 19, 1918, and was, to a certain
extent, stripped and dismantled. It was estimated that
the work upon it would be finished January 30, 1919, but
it was not actually completed until February 25, 1919.
The accident occurred on February 1st of that year. After
the repairs were finished the engine was given a trial trip
and finally put into service in interstate commerce.
For it conclusion and judgment, the court reviewed a
number of cases,1 and considered that the principle they
'New York Central & Hudson River R. R. Co. v. Carr, 238 U. S.
260; Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Parker, 242 U. S. 13; Erie
R. R. Co. v. Winfield, 244 U. S. 170; New York Central R. R. Co. v.
Porter,249 U. S. 168; Philadelphia,Baltimore & Washington R. R.
Co. v. Smith, 250 U. S. 101; Pedersen v. Delaware, Lackawanna &
Western R. R. Co., 229 U. S. 146; Shanks v. Delaware, Lackawanna
& Western R. R. Co., 239 U. S. 556; Chicago, Burlington & Quincy
R. R. Co. v. Harrington,241 U. S. 177; Minneapolis & St. Louis R. R.
Co. v. Winters, 242 U. S. 353, and some California cases and federal

reports.

INDUSTRIAL COMMISSION v. DAVIS.
182.

185

Opinion of the Court.

established was simple; that its application had been rendered difficult by diversity of decisions in the federal and
state courts, and that this court had fixed no rule by which
the conflict could be resolved but had remitted the decision
of each case to its particular facts. Such action is not
unusual, and it is not very tangible to our perception how
any other can obtain when the facts in the case are in
dispute. Propositions of law are easily pronounced, but
when invoked, circumstances necessarily justify or repel
their application in the instance and the judgment to be
rendered.
And there is no relief from those conditions in the present case and our inquiry necessarily must be whether, considering the facts, the cases that have been decided have
tangible concurrence enough to determine the present controversy.
We may say of them at once that. a precise ruling, one
that enables an instant and undisputed application, has
not been attempted to be laid down. The test of the employment and the application of the Federal Employers'
Liability Act (in determining its application we determine
between it and the California act) is, "was the employ6
at the time of the injury engaged in interstate transportation or in work so closly related to it as to be practically
a part of it?" Shanks v. Delaware, Lackawanna & Western R. R. Co., 239 U. S.556. This test was followed in
Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co. v. Harrington,
241 U. S.177, and Southern Pacific Co.v. IndustrialAccident Commission, 251 U. S.259.
Shanks v. Delaware,Lackawanna & Western R. R. Co.
is particularly applicable to the present case. It illustrates the test by a contrast of examples and by it, and
the cases that have followed it, the ruling of the District
Court of Appeal must be judged. The ruling is, as we
have said, that Burton's work was so near to interstate
commerce as to be a part of it.

186

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

The court, we are prompted to say, had precedents in
NorthernPacific Ry. Co. v. Maerkl, 198 Fed. 1, and Law
v. Illinois Central R. R. Co., 208 Fed. 869, and it was
natural to regard them as persuasive as they were decisions of Circuit Courts of Appeal. Both were ably
reasoned cases. They differed, however, in their facts.
In the first case, Maerkl received injuries while employed
as a car carpenter in repairing a refrigerator car at the
railroad shops. In the second case, Law was "a boiler
maker's helper" and at the time of his injury was helping
to repair a freight engine, used by the railroad company
in interstate commerce. It was held in both cases that
the work of repair was in interstate commerce.
The facts in the Maerkl Case, it may be said, do not
identify it with the case at bar. The refrigerator car was
not intended for use in interstate commerce only. Its use
was for that or "intrastate commerce as occasion might
arise." The facts in the Law Case do identify it with 'the
case at bar. The period of repairs in it was 21 days, and
it was cited as a precedent in Chicago, Kalamazoo & Saginaw Ry. Co. v. Kindlesparker, 234 Fed. 1, in which the
duration of repairs, also upon an engine, was 79 days.
The court expressed the view that the difference between
that case and the Law Case was "in point of time, not in
principle," and that the engine at the time of the repairs
was an instrument of interstate commerce, and that Kindlesparker's work " thereon was a part of such commerce."
The court seems to have been of the view, and, indeed,
expressed it, referring to the Law Case, that the test of
the work was the instrument upon which it was performed, not the time of withdrawal of the instrument from
use. This court reversed the case. 246 U.-S. 657.
There are other federal cases in which the decisions are
diverse.' And there are state cases of which the same
comment may be made.
'Hudson & Manhattan R. R. Co. v. lorio, 239 Fed. 855; Director

General of Railroads v. Bennett, 268 Fed. 767.

INDUSTRIAL COMMISSION v. DAVIS.
182.

187

Opinion of the Court.

We refrain from a review of our cases. They pronounce
a test and illustrate it. We are called upon to apply it
to the present controversy. The federal act gives redress only for injuries received in interstate commerce.
But how determine the commerce? Commerce is movement, and the work and general repair shops of a railroad, and those employed in them, are accessories to that
movement, indeed, are necessary to it, but so are all attached to the railroad company, official, clerical or mechanical. Against such a broad generalization of relation
we, however, may instantly pronounce, and successively
against lesser ones, until we come to the relation of the
employment to the actual operation of the instrumentalities for a distinction between commerce and no commerce. In other words, we are brought to a consideration
of degrees, and the test declared, that the employee at
the time of the injury must be engaged in interstate transportation or in work so closely related to it as to be practically a part of it, in order to displace state jurisdiction
and make applicable the federal act. And there is a
difference in the instrumentalities. In some, the tracks,
bridges and road bed and equipment in actual use, may
be said to have definite character and give it to those employed upon them. But equipment out of use, withdrawn for repairs, may or may not partake of that character according to circumstances, and among the circumstances is the time taken for repairs-the duration of the
withdrawal from use. Illustrations readily occur. There
may be only a placement upon a sidetrack or in a roundhouse-the interruption of actual use, and the return to
it, being of varying lengths of time, or there may be a
removal to the repair and construction shops, a definite
withdrawal from service and placement in new relations;
the relations of a work shop, its employments and employees having cause in the movements that constitute
commerce but not being immediate to it.

188

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

259 U. S.

And it is this separation that gives character to the employment, as we have said, as being in or not in commerce.
Such, we think, was the situation of the engine in the
present case. It was placed in the shop for general repairs
on December 19, 1918. On February 25, 1919, after work
upon it, it was given a trial and it was placed in service
on March 4, 1919. The accident occurred on February
1st of that year, the engine at the time being nearly
stripped and dismantled. "It was not interrupted in an
interstate haul to be repaired and go on." Minneapolis
& St. Louis R. R. Co. v. Winters, 242 U. S. 353, 356;
Chicago, Kalamazoo & Saginaw Ry. Co. v. Kindlesparker,
246 U. S. 657.
Further discussion is unnecessary though we are besought to declare a standard invariable by circumstances
or free from confusion by them in application. If that
were ever possible, it is not so now. Besides, things do
not have to be in broad contrast to have different practical
and legal consequences. Actions take estimation from
degrees and of this, life and law are replete with examples.
Judgment reversed and cause remanded for further
proceedingsin accordance with this opinion.
MORRISDALE COAL COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 65. Argued January 6, 9, 1922.-Decided May 29, 1922.
Pursuant to regulations made under the "Lever Act" of August 10,
1917, c. 53, ยง 25, 40 Stat. 284, which authorized the President,
for the efficient prosecution of the late war, to fix the price of
coal and regulate the distribution of it among dealers and consumers, claimant's coal was sold by it to private buyers at a price
fixed by the Government which was less than the claimant had
previously contracted to sell it for to others. Held, that there

