WYOMING v. COLORADO.
419.

Opinion of the Court.

whether changes and alternatives should be adopted rather
than the primary conception. It had not reached a point
where there was a fixed and definite purpose to take it up
and carry it through. An appropriation does not take
priority by relation as of a time anterior to the existence
of such a purpose.
It no doubt is true that the original promoters intended
all along to make a large appropriation from the Laramie
by some means, provided the requisite capital could be
obtained, but this is an altogether inadequate basis for
applying the doctrine of relation.
No separate appropriation was effected by what was
done on the Upper Rawah Ditch. The purpose to use it
in connection with the Skyline was not carried out, but
abandoned. This, as Link testified, was its "principal"
purpose. The purpose to make it an accessory of the large
project was secondary and contingent. Therefore the
work on it cannot be taken as affecting or tolling back the
priority of that project.
Actual work in making the tunnel diversion was begun
as before shown, about the last of October, 1909. Thereafter it was prosecuted with much diligence and in 1911,
when this suit was brought, it had been carried so nearly
to a state of completion that the assumption reasonably
may be indulged that, but for the suit, the appropriation
soon would have been perfected. We conclude that the
appropriation should be accorded a priority by relation
as of the latter part of October, 1909, when the work was
begun.
Applying a like rule to the Wyoming appropriations,
several of them must be treated as relating to later dates,
and therefore as being junior to that appropriation. Some
of the projects in that State are founded on a plurality of
appropriations, a part of which are senior and a part
junior to that one.
The evidence shows that the Wyoming appropriations
having priorities senior to the one in Colorado, and which

496

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Final Decree.

259 U. S.

are dependent on the available supply before named, cover
181,500 acres of land and that the amount of water appropriated and reasonably required for the irrigation of these
lands is 272,500 acre-feet. A much larger amount is
claimed, but our finding restricts the amount to what the
evidence shows is reasonably required, which is one-acrefoot per acre for the larger part of the lands, two acre-feet
per acre for a part and two and one-half acre-feet per
acre for the remainder.
As the available supply is 288,000 acre-feet and the
amount covered by senior appropriations in Wyoming is
272,500 acre-feet, there remain 15,500 acre-feet which are
subject to this junior appropriation in Colorado. The
amount sought to be diverted and taken under it is much
larger.
A decree will accordingly be entered enjoining the defendants from diverting or taking more than 15,500 acrefeet per year from the Laramie River by means of or
through the so-called Laramie-Poudre project.
It is so ordered.
STATE OF WYOMING v. STATE OF COLORADO
ET AL.
IN EQUITY.

No. 3, Original. Final decree entered June 5, 1922.

This cause having been heretofore submitted on the
pleadings and the evidence taken before and reported by
the commissioners appointed for the purpose, and the
court being now fully advised in the premises:
It is considered, ordered and decreed that the defendants,.their officers, agents and servants, be, and they are
hereby, severally enjoined from diverting or taking from
the Laramie River and its tributaries in the State of Colo-

WYOMING v. COLORADO.
496.

Final Decree.

rado more than fifteen thousand five hundred (15,500)
acre-feet of water per annum in virtue of or through what
is designated in the pleadings and evidence as the Lardmie-Poudre Tunnel appropriation in that State,
Provided, that this decree shall not prejudice the right
of the State of Colorado, or of any one recognized by her
as duly entitled thereto, to continue to exercise the right
now existing and hereby recognized to divert and take
from such stream and its tributaries in that State eighteen
thousand (18,000) acre-feet of water per annum in virtue of and through what is designated in the pleadings
and evidence as the Skyline Ditch appropriation in that
State; nor prejudice the right of that State, or of any one
recognized by her as duly entitled thereto, to continue to
exercise the right now existing and hereby recognized to
divert and take from such stream and its tributaries in
that State four thousand two hundred and fifty (4,250)
acre-feet of water per annum in virtue of and through the
meadow-land appropriations in that State which are
named in the pleadings and evidence; nor prejudice or
affect the right of the State of Colorado or the State of
Wyoming, or of any one recognized by either State as
duly entitled thereto, to continue to exercise the right to
divert and use water from Sand Creek, sometimes spoken
of as a tributary of the Laramie River, in virtue of any
existing and lawful appropriation of the waters of such
creek;
And it is also considered, ordered and decreed that the
State of Wyoming do have and recover from the defendants her lawful costs herein.
And it is further considered, ordered and decreed that
the clerk of this court do transmit to the chief magistrates
of the States of Colorado and Wyoming copies of this decree duly authenticated under the seal of this court.'
1
A modified decree was entered October 9, 1922. It will be printed
in Vol. 260 U. S., p. 1.

