OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

Upon' an examination of the cases above cited it will be
found that the principles therein laid down.clearly and plainly
cover this case.
The judgment must be
MN[R. JUSTICE HARLAN

dissented.

Affirmed.

THE UMBRIA.'
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
No. 25.

Argued March 27, 30, 1896; March 2, 8, 1897.--Decided April 5, 1897.

The Umbria, a passenger steamer carrying the mails, coming out from the
harbor of New York at full speed about midday in a fog which was at
times dense and at times intermittent, collided with the Iberia about
eleven miles from the entrance to the harbor and sank her. Held, that
the Umbria was gravely at fault in the natter of speed, and that this
fault was not lessened by the fact that passenger steamers carrying the
mails run at full speed in a fog in order to pass the foggy belt.
Accepting, in the absence of other evidence, the testimony of the officers
and crew of the Iberia as conclusive, the court, while of opinion that it
would have been more prudent not to have changed her course in manner as set forth in the Statement of the Case, is unwilling to say that the
doing so was necessarily a fault on her part.
The general consensus of opinicn in this country is that in a fog a steamer
is bound to use only such precautions as will enable her to stop in time
to avoid a collision, after the approaching vessel comes in sight, provtided such approaching vessel is herself going at the moderate speed
required by law.
The damages should not have been divided by the court below. The
majority of this court think that the Iberia was not in fault under the
circumstances set forth in the statement of the case, and the other members of the court are of opinion That her fault, if any, did not contribute
to the collision.
In cases of total loss estimated profits of a charter party not yet entered
upon are always rejected; and there is nothing in the facts to take this
case out of the general rule.
' The docket title of this case Is: The Cunard Steamship Company (limited) owner of the Steamship Umbria v. Cyprien Fabre, Manager of the Compagnie Frawwaise de Navigation c vapeur.

THE UMBRIA.
Statement of the Case.

THIS was a suit in admiralty, brought in the District Court
for the Eastern District of New York, by the owners of the
French steamship Iberia against the British steamship Umbria, to recover damages for a collision, which took place
about a quarter past one in the afternoon of November 10,
1888, in a dense fog off the coast of Long Island, about eleven
miles from the entrance to New York harbor, and six miles
south of Rockaway Beach.
The Iberia was a French steamship 240 feet long, of 1059
tons register, capable of a speed of from 91 to 10 knots an
hour, was laden with a valuable cargo, and bound from the
Red Sea and Mediterranean ports to New York. She had
been in a fog since 8 o'clock in the'morning, was running
with her engines "easy," the lowest order short of stopping,
at a speed of 31 to 4 knots an hour on a W.N.W. course,
and making occasional soundings with her lead. On two
occasions, within a half hour preceding the collision, she had
heard the whistle of an approaching steamer a little on
her port bow, had altered her course two points to the starboard, kept on until the whistles indicated that the steamers
were passed, and then returned to her former course. About
a quarter of an hour after passing the last of these steamers
she heard a whistle which proved to be that of the Umbria,
bearing about two points on her port bow. Immediately, as
on the previous occasions, her head was put two points more
to starboard, a short whistle was blown, her helm was
steadied upon a N.W. course, and held so. While so proceeding, after four or five minutes, several more of the Umbria's
whistles were heard, all bearing about the same direction
from the Iberia (allowing two points for the porting), tho
sound rapidly increasing in volume. Finally the Umbria herself came into view about 900 feet away, and bearing about
five points on her port hand. She then put her engines full
speed ahead in an attempt to escape the Umbria by crossing
her bow and had nearly passed her, when the Umbria struck
her stem on at an angle of about six or seven points, and cut
her stern completely off.
The Umbria was a steamship of the Cunard line, 525 feet

OCTQBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

long, of 3450 tons register, capable of a speed of 19J knots an
hour, and was bound upon a voyage from New York to Liverpool, laden with a cargo, and having on board a number of
passengers. After passing Sandy Hook and discharging her
pilot, she was put upon a compass course of E. by S. a S.
From half past twelve, when she discharged her pilot at the
outer buoy, until the collision, she was kept at full speed more
or less of the time, as the intermittent character of the fog
permitted, soundino her whistle at intervals of a minute or
two. The French steamship Normandie discharged her pilot
ahead of the Umbria, and proceeded on her course a little
more to the southward than the latter; at times being in
sight of the Umbria and again being concealed by the fog.
Her whistle was heard from time to time on board the Umnbria and off her starboard quarter, the latter having passed
her before she reached the place of collision. Shortly after
one o'clock the fog thickened, and while the Umbria was running at full speed, a very faint single blast of a whistle, which
subsequently proved to be from the Iberia, was thought to
be heard on the Umbria's starboard bow, apparently a long
(listanceoff and well to the southward. Upon hearing this
whistle, and at ten minutes past one, her speed was reduced
by order of her master, and attention given toward the direction of the sound for a repetition of the signal. Shortly afterwards a second, and, as some say, a third, whistle was heard,
still apparently a long distance off, on the Umbria's starboard
bow, and well to the southward. The master of the Umbria
thereupon determined that the signals which had been heard
were from a steamship approaching on a course parallel to his
own; and concluding that the Umbria was clear of her, and
that she would probably port her heln to avoid the Norman(die, ordered her engines full speed ahead at eleven minutes
past one o'clock. Within a minute from the time such order
was given, another whistle was beard closer to the Umbria
and drawing ahead of her, and almost simultaneously the
Iberia loomed in sight, a little on the Umbria's starboard bow,
on a course crossing her own nearly at right angles, and about
twice the Umbria's length away.

The Umbria's engines were,

THE UMBRIA.
Counsel for Parties.

immediately reversed at full speed, her helm put hard aport,
but before the Iberia had crossed her course the collision
ensued. She struck the Iberia on the port side, about thirty
feet forward of her stern, cut her completely in two, and
passed on out of sight in the fog.
Upon this state of facts the District Court held the Umbria
to have been solely in fault for the collision, entered an interlocutory decree, January 13, 1890, to that effect, 40 Fed. Rep.
893, and referred the question of damages to a commissioner,
who made a report to which both parties filed exceptions.
One of the exceptions taken by the libellant, the owner of the
Iberia, was sustained by the court, and in accordance therewith a new report was made and a final decree entered July 3,
1891, for the sum of $147,500.17. Claimant appealed to the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, which rendered a decision by a divided court, sustaining the decree of
the District Court as to the fault of the Umbria, but finding
the Iberia also to have been in fault; first, because, after hearing the first whistle of the Umbria, she changed her course
without knowing the latter's bearing, course or speed; and
second, because she violated Article 18 of the International
Regulations, by continuing on, when she knew, or ought to
have known, that the courses of the two vessels were crossing,
and thereby involving risk of collision.
1 U. S. App. 614.
The decision of the District Court was also reversed upon the
question involved in the exception to the master's report. A
rehearing having been refused, libellant applied to this court
for a writ of certiorari, which was granted.
The case was argued on the 27th and 30th March, 1896.
Xr. Frank D. Sturges and 1r. Flrederic 1?. Coudert for the
Umbria.

-Mr. Edward I. Owen was on their brief.

.Mr.Robert D. Benedict for the Iberia.
On the 21st December, 1896, the case was ordered to be restored to the docketo for reargument on the question whether
the Iberia was in fault. This reargument took place March
2, 3, 1897.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

.Mr. Frederic R. Coudert for the Umbria.
3r.

Robert D. Benedict for the Iberia.

MR. JUSTICE BROWN,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
1. That the Umbria was gravely in fault in the matter
of speed is too clear for serious argument. She was within
twelve miles of one of the most frequented harbors in the
world, in the track of vessels bound into and out of this harbor, and was running at a speed of from sixteen to nineteen
knots an hour through an intermittent or variable fog, which
was sometimes so dense that vessels could not see each other
more than one or two lengths off. She had heard at least two
whistles from the Iberia, and without waiting definitely to
locate her, had ordered her engines full speed ahead within a
minute from the time she hove in sight. Her excuse is that
the first whistle of the Iberia, which does not seem to have
been heard by the master, but was heard by some of the other
officers, appeared to be upon the starboard bow, apparently a
long distance off; that the second whistle also seemed a long
distance off and well to the southward; and the master, supposing they were from a steamer approaching upon a course
parallel to his own, concluded that he was clear of her or had
shaken her off ; that the approaching steamer would probably
port her helm to avoid the Normandie, which was coming
up on the Umbria's starboard quarter, and therefore ordered
his engines full speed ahead to avoid the danger consequent
upon such a movement on the part of the Iberia. This assumption was clearly an insufficient excuse for the order. It
is difficult to locate the exact position of a vessel in a fog, and
still more difficult to determine her course and distance; and
while a whistle continues to be beard so nearly ahead,'it is
manifestly unsafe to assume that she is upon a course that
will take her clear. The assumption might be justified if the
signals were often repeated and kept constantly growing
fainter or broader off the bow; but in this case the Umbria

THE UMBRIA.
Opinion of the Court.

heard but two, or possibly three, whistles from the Iberia, the
last one of which must have seemed nearer than the first, since
the steamers were rapidly approaching each other. The Iberia could not have appeared to be further to southward than
when her first signal was blown, since she had then ported
two points, and was really further to the northward. In resuming his speed under such circumstances, the mastyr acts
at his peril. As was said by Sir Robert Phillimore, in the
case of The Kirby Hall, 8 P. D. 71: "We wish to state with
as much emphasis as possible, that those in charge of a ship,
in such a dense fog as was described in this case, should never
conjecture anything when they hear a whistle in such close
proximity, as was the case here, whether the sound appears
to them to come from a vessel approaching them or not."
Of course there is a point depending upon the number, distinctness and apparent position of the approaching signals,
beyond which precautions are unnecessary and the master has
the right to assume that he has shaken off the other vessel,
but it is entirely clear that that point had not been reached
in this case, and that the immediate cause of the collision was
the order to go ahead at full speed before the course and position of the Iberia had been definitely ascertained. Indeed, so
gross was the fault of the Umbria in this connection, that we
should unhesitatingly apply the rule laid down in The City of
New York, 147 U. S.72, 85, and The Ludvig HIolberg, 157
U. S. 60, 71, that any doubts regarding the management of
the other vessel, or the contribution of her faults, if any, to
the collision, should be resolved in her favor. It was suggested upon the argument that it was customary for large
passenger steamers carrying the mails to run at full speed in a
fog, and that this was really the safer course for them, as the
greater the speed the sooner they pass the foggy belt. However this may be, the custom is not one to which the courts
can lend their sanction, as it implies a flagrant disregard of
the safety of other vessels.
2. But notwithstanding the negligence of the Umbria, the
Iberia was chargeable with the duty of taking proper precautions, and, in judging of the propriety of her manoeuvres,

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

we are obliged to accept the testimony of her officers and
crew as conclusive, since there is no other testimony to contradict it.
It appears that she was bound toward New York harbor
upon a course crossing to the northward, but still not far from
parallel to that of the Umbria, and was proceeding at a speed
of from three and a half to four knots an hour. Her officers
say that they heard the Umbria's first whistle about two
points on her port bow; that her helm was immediately
ported and her head put two points more to starboard, bringing her upon a northwest course, which she held until she
came in sight of the Umbria. This brought her upon a course
more than two points divergent from that of the Umbria.
While proceeding under this course, several more whistles
were heard from the Umbria, bearing in about the same
direction (allowing two points for the porting), and rapidly
increasing in volume. There could be but one interpretation
put upon these signals. A steamer was drawing rapidly
nearer upon a course crossing that of the Iberia. That she
was nearing her was evident from the increasing loudness of
each succeeding whistle; that she was not upon a parallel
course was evident from the fact that the Iberia was herself
upon a course which, if continued, would have carried her
ashore upon Rockaway Beach. The probabilities all were that
the other steamer was bound out from New York harbor.
Under such circumstances, and in view of the fact that the
exact position and course of the Umbria could not 'be determined, we think it would have been more prudent on the part
of the Iberia not to have changed her course until the position
and course of the approaching steamer had been definitely
ascertained, although we should be reluctant to hold that such
change of course was a fault on her part, which should condemn her in a moiety of the damages. There are undoubtedly
authorities and some expressions of this court to the effect that
a change of the helm, in ignorance of the exact position and
course of an approaching vessel, is a fault, although we have
never held that it would be a fault in every case presenting
these conditions. The Sea Gull, 23 Wall. 165, 175, 177; The

THE UMBRIA.
Opinion of the Court.

City of New York, 147 IT. S. 72, 85 ; The James Watt, 2 W.
Rob. 270; The Alberta, 23 Fed. Rep. 807, 811; The Bou gainville, L. R. 5 P. C. 316; The Franconia,4 Ben. 181, 185;
The Shakespeare, 4 Ben. 128; The lorne, Stu. Vice Adm.
177; Western Metropolis, 2 Ben. 399, 402; The Il1ammonia, 4
Ben. 515, 522; The Northern Indiana, 3 Blatch. 92, 110; The
North Star, 43 Fed. Rep. 807; S. C. 22 U. S. App. 242, 252;
The Fountain City, 22 U. S. App. 301; The Arthur Orr, 69
Fed. Rep. 350; The Resolution, 6 Asp. Mar. Cas. 363.
We think, however, that a more reasonable position in this
connection was taken by the House of Lords in the case of
The Vindomora, (1891) App. Cas. 1, in which it was held that
there was no rigid rule that where two steamships were approaching each other in a fog so as to involve risk of collision,
neither ship ought to alter her helm until the signals of the
other gave clear indication of her direction; and that each
case must depend upon its own circumstances, which might
afford reasonable ground for believing what the direction
must be. In that case it was argued that one of the steamers
concerned must be held in fault for having starboarded before
her officers knew the direction in which the approaching
steamer was coming. In considering this, Lord Herschell remarked: "I do not think the cases which the learned counsel
cited support the proposition that there is any such absolute
hard and fast rule as that a vessel having only the indication
of a single whistle from the other vessel is never justified
in manceuvring, and must always be held to blame if she
does manceuvre. I should be very sorry to say anything to
indicate any dissent from the view that where two vessels are
approaching one another in a fog, without any sufficient indication to justify action, neither vessel would be justified in
altering her course. I think the proper steps to be taken
in such a ease would be for each vesset to keep the course on
which she was proceeding. But although I entirely agree
that that is a good general rule to lay down, yet that rule
must be interpreted in each case according to the circumstances of that case. It is impossible to lay down an abstract
rule of that description which shall be applicable to all cir-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

cumstances, to all parts of the seas, and to all positions of
vessels." In that case, as the whistle of the approaching
steamer was heard broad off the starboard bow, it was held
that the other vessel was not in fault for starboarding, and
that such starboarding did not contribute to the collision.
See, also, The Frankland& Kestrel, L. R. 4 P. C. 529, 533.
Upon these considerations, while we think it would have
been more prudent in the Iberia not to have changed her
course, yet in view of the fact that the whistle of the Umbria
appeared to come from off her port bow, we should be unwilling to say that it was necessarily a fault on her part to port
her helm two points, the effect of which would be to give the
Umbria more room. It is possible that, under the peculiar
circumstances, the Iberia had a right to assume that the Urnbria was outward bound from New York, and pursuing a
course substantially parallel to her own.
The question whether the Iberia performed her whole duty
in continuing upon her course, even at a low rate of speed,
instead of stopping when the whistles of the Umbria were
repeated and apparently drawing nearer, remains to be considered. The only two articles of the Revised International
Regulations of 1885 (23 Stat. 438) which have any pertinence
to the case are the following:
"Art. 13. Every ship, whether a sailing ship or a steamship, shall in a fog, mist or falling snow go at a moderate
speed."
"Art. 18. Every steamship, when approaching another ship
so as to involve risk of collision shall slacken her speed, or
stop and reverse, if necessary."
The former of these articles deals with the general sp~ed of
ships in a fog; the latter, with the special precautions to be
observed after the proximity of another vessel has been ascertained by her signals. As the general speed of the Iberia (lid
not exceed four knots an hour -the lowest speed necessary
to the maintenance of steerageway - it is clear that she was
guilty of no violation of the thirteenth article.
Her conduct, after the whistles of the Umbria began to be
heard by the Iberia's officers, is deserving of more serious

THE UMBRIA.
Opinion of the Court.

consideration.

We certainly do not wish to be understood as

holding that it is necessary for a steamer to stop the moment

she hears a whistle ahead of her in a fog, though it be directly
ahead. Under such circumstances she may proceed at.a reduced rate of speed; but if the whistle be repeated two or
three times, and appear to be drawing nearer, the authorities
generally hold that, if the fog be dense, prudent navigation
requires that she shall stop her engines and drift ahead, until
the approaching steamer comes in sight, or her whistles indicate that the two vessels are well clear of each other.
A review of the leading cases upon the subject will exhibit
the circumstances under which it has been held that steamships, navigating in a fog or other atmospheric obscuration,
are bound to stop upon hearing signals from vessels, the exact
position and course of which it is impossible to ascertain.
In the case of The Hypodame, 6 Wall. 216, the earliest case
in this court, a steamer proceeding at the rate of six to eight
miles heard a hail before it from a vessel exhibiting no light,
and immediately slowed her engines, and then stopped. She
was held to have been in fault for not instantly stopping and
reversing her engines.
The next is that of The Colorado, 91 U. S. 692. In this
case a propeller was proceeding in a dense fog at the rate of
live or six miles an hour. Hearing the blast of a fog horn
from a sailing vessel, which was crossing her course at the
rate of four miles an hour, it was held that her speed was
excessive, and that any speed was too great which did not
enable the steamer to perform the duty imposed upon her by
the act of Congress "to keep out of the way of the sailing
vessel," if the latter has in all respects complied with the rules
of navigation.
In Tlhe City of _New York, 147 U. S. 72, it was held that a
steamer proceeding at her usual speed, upon hearing the fog
horn of a bark only one point on her starboard bow, should
at once have checked her speed, and if the sound indicated
that the approaching vessel was near, should have stopped or
reversed until the sound was definitely located, or the vessels
came in sight of each other.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

And in The Martello, 153 U. S. 61, a steamer leaving the
port of New York in a dense fog, at a speed of five to six miles
an hour, heard a blast from a fog horn on her starboard bow,
indicating that a vessel was approaching from a direction
which might take her across the steamer's bow, and was held
to have been in fault for not at once stopping, until, by repeated
blasts of the horn, she could assure herself of the exact bearing,
speed and course of the approaching vessel.
The English cases, upon the subject of speed, are much more
numerous and explicit. In that of The Frankland & Kestrel,
L. R. 4 P. C. 529, two steamships were approaching each other
in a fog so dense that vessels could not be seen at a greater
distance than 200 or 300 feet. The speed of each vessel was
not over two to two and a haf kenots through the water. The
finding of the admiralty court was that " both vessels were
going, in truth, in the most absolute uncertainty as to the proceedings of the other"; and the opinion of that court, fortified by that of 'its nautical assessors, was "that upon hearing
the whistles of each other so near and approaching each other,
each vessel ought not only to have stopped, but to have reversed
until its way was stopped, when it could have hailed and ascertained with certainty which way the head of the other
vessel was, and which way she was proceeding; and by that
means the collision would or might have been avoided." The
Privy Council was of the opinion that both vessels were going
at a moderate speed; but that the Frankland, the only vessel
which appealed, having heard a whistle sounded many times,
indicating that a steamer was approaching her and had come
very near to her -so near indeed that if the vessels had then
stopped they would have been within hailing distanep - should
not only have stopped the motion of her engines, but should
have reversed them, and that she ought not to have waited
until the vessels sighted each other, when such a manoeuvre
would have been too late.
In The Kirby flall, 8 P. D. 71, it was said to be the first
duty of those who have charge of a steamship in motion during a dense fog, on first hearing the whistle of a steamship in
such close proximity to them that a risk of collision is involved,

THE UMBRIA.
Opinion of the Court.

to bring their vessel immediately to a standstill, and not to
execute any manceuvre with her helm until they have definitely
ascertained the position and course of the other ship. In this
case, although the Kirby Hall was going dead slow, it was
held that she was to blame for not stopping when the whistle
of the approaching steamer was heard the first time near at
hand, instead of going ahead without knowing where the other
vessel was or what she was doing. And said the court: "We
wish to state with as much emphasis as possible, that those in
charge of a ship in such a dense fog as was described in this
case should never conjecture anything when they hear a whistle in such close proximity as was the case here, whether the
sound appears to them to come from a vessel approaching
them or not." The fog was "as dense a fog as one can well
imagine."
In The John McIntyre, 9 P. D. 135, a steamer hearing a
whistle on her port bow in a dense fog, " so thick that she can
hardly see before her," slackened her speed. Later on the
whistle was repeated two or three times, clearly nearing her
and in her vicinity, but she did not then stop and reverse;
and it was held that she was in fault. The approaching
steamer, the Monica, though making only three knots an
hour, was admitted to have been in fault.
In The Dordogne, 10 P. D. 6, the master of the Dordogne,
while running in a dense fog, heard a whistle three points off
her starboard bow. On hearing it, the engines were stopped.
The whistle was again heard broader on the starboard bow,
and was replied to and the engines again set ahead. The
engines were again stopped and again moved ahead. It was
held that, considering the way in which these vessels were
approaching each other, the officer in charge ought to have
brought the Dordogne to a standstill, and, when the other
vessel was coming nearer to him, he should have stopped
was admitted
and reversed. The other vessel - the Edith
to be in fault, though proceeding "dead slow."
In the case of The Ebor, 11 P. D. 25, the rule was still more
stringently enforced. In this case, the plaintiff's steamer heard
a whistle almost directly ahead in a "thick" fog. She was

OCTOBER TERM1,

1896.

Opinion of the Court.

then going only about three knots an hour, and continued at
this speed for about a minute, until a second whistle was
heard, when the order was given to stop and reverse; but
the defendants' steamer coming in sight, a collision occurred.
The defendants admitted that they were to blame, though
making only three knots an hour, but it was also held that
the officer in charge of the plaintiff's steamer, on hearing the
first whistle, should have reduced her speed to as slow a rate
as possible, only keeping her under command, and was in
fault for failing so to do.
In the case of The .Ceto, 14: App. Cas. 670, it was held that
where two steamships, invisible to each other by reason of
a dense fog, find themselves gradually drawing nearer until
they are within a few ship's lengths, each of them ought at
once to stop and reverse; unless the fog signals of the other
vessel have unequivocally indicated that she is steered so as to
pass clear without involving risk of collision; or unless other
circumstances exist which make it dangerous to stop and reverse. The exact speed of the two steamers was not given,
although it is stated in one of the opinions that the Ceto was
going "dead slow," while the Lebanon had reduced her speed
Both were held to blame. In the latest English
to "easy."
case upon this point, The Ldncashire, (1894) App. Cas. 1, two
steamships were approaching one another on opposite courses
in a fog. They came in sight of each other at a distance
of 450 feet. The Ariel was conceded to be in fault. The
Lancashire, although proceeding only at the rate of three and
one half knots an hour, stopped her engines on hearing the
repeated whistles of the Ariel a point and a half on her
starboard bow, but was held in fault for not-reversing.
It.is apparent from an examination of these cases that they
are distinguishable from the one under consideration in two
important particulars, viz., that the fog Was dense, and that
the approaching vessel was herself running at a comparatively low rate of speed.
The
In every case the fog Was described as "dense" -in
F,ankland & Kestrel, "so dense that vessels could not be
seen at a greater distance than two or three hundred feet"-

THE UMBRIA.
Opinion of the Court.

in the Kirby Hall, "as dense as one can well imagine," 6 Asp.
Mar. Law Cas. 90,- in the John McIntyre, "so thick she can
hardly see before her," 6 Asp. Mar. Law Cas. 278, and in the
others simply as "dense," or "thick." Under such circumstances, it might well be held to be the duty of each steamer
to stop and reverse her engines and feel her way, until the
course of the other had been definitely ascertained. But
in cases of this kind much depends upon the density of the
fog, and something must be left to the judgment and discretion of the master. Precautions, which might be indispensable in a fog so thick that vessels are invisible at a distance of
three hundred feet, might become unnecessary and even burdensome if they can be seen at a distance of a thousand feet.
It was said in the early case of The Batavier, 9 Moore P. C.
286, that "at whatever rate she was going, if going at such a
rate as made it dangerous to any craft which she ought to
have seen, and might have seen, she had no right to go at
that rate." This language was quoted with approval in The
Colorado, 91 U. S. 692, 703.
So, too, in the case of The Great Eastern, Browning &
Lushington, 287, it was said that "their lordships are of
opinion that it is the duty of the steamer to proceed only at
such a rate of speed as will enable her, after discovering a
vessel meeting her, to stop and reverse her engines in sufficient
time to prevent any collision from taking place." Similar language Was used by this court in the case of The Nacoochee,
137 U. S. 330, 339.
The general consensus of opinion in this country is to the
effect that a steamer is bound to use only such precautions as
will enable her to stop in time to avoid a collision, after the
approaching vessel comes in sight, provided such approaching
vessel is herself going at the moderate speed required by law.
In a dense fog this might require both vessels to come to a
standstill, until the course of each was definitely ascertained,
In a lighter fog it might authorize them to keep their engines
in sufficient motion to preserve their steerageway.
The fog in this case was what is termed intermittent; sometimes dense; sometimes light; occasionally lifting so much as
VOL. CLXVI-27

OCTOBER TERI,

1896.

Opinion of the Court.

to permit other vessels to be seen, and again shutting down so
as to hide them completely, That, immediately prior to the
collision, it was not a dense fog is shown by the admitted fact

that the steamers became visible to each other at a distance
of from nine hundred to a thousand feet. Under such circumstances, if the Umbria herself had been observing the rule
with regard to moderate speed, we think it would have been
possible for the two steamers, by prompt reversal of their
engines, to have avoided each other- at any rate, the master
of the Iberia might, in the exercise of sound judgment, have
concluded that it was safer for him to maintain a low rate of
speed than to come to a standstill.
It should also be borne in mind that she had a right to
assume that, even if the Umbria were not pursuing the moderate speed required by the statute, at least she was not guilty
of maintaining the extraordinary and reckless speed of nineteen knots per hour. While the signals of the Umbria indicated that she was approaching her very fast, the bearing
of these signals tended to show that she was broadening off
from, rather than bearing in upon, her course, and that the
Iberia would probably pass the point of intersection before
the Umbria reached it. Indeed, if it be true, as sworn by her
witnesses, that the Iberia was proceeding on a N.W. course
after she had ported, and the Umbria was proceeding on a
course E. by S. 4 S., and the whistles were several times heard
four points on the bow of the Iberia, there could not have
been any collision, since the courses of the two vessels would
have crossed each other fAr astern of the Iberia. It is probably also true that, considering the great speed of the Umbria,
it were better that the Iberia should keep her steerageway
rather than stop her engines and reverse, since she would
respond to her wheel more readily, if her engines were kept
in motion than if her headway were entirely stopped. The
case presented is not one where, if both vessels had stopped

and reversed, the collision might have been avoided; but
whether, under the facts as they subsequently appeared to be,
the Iberia could be deemed in fault for a manoeuvre which
would have tended to avoid the collision rather than bring

THE UMBRIA.
Opinion of the Court.

it about, by aiding her in keeping out of the way of the
Umbria.
The English cases are also distinguishable in the fact that
the approaching vessel was herself running at a low rate of
speed- generally at "dead slow," or, as in one or two of the
cases, at "easy speed." Indeed, it does not appear that either
vessel was running at a speed to exceed three and one half or
four knots an hour, which, however, was held to be too great
to enable two vessels to avoid a collision after they came in
sight of each other. Under such circumstances, these decisions
can have but an imperfect application to a case where one of
the steamers is proceeding at "dead slow," and the other at
her full speed of sixteen to nineteen knots anihour. While
we do not question the soundness of Lord Halsbury's observations in the case of Te Ceto, that the solution of the question
of speed must not depend upon the state of facts afterwards
ascertained, unless there was enough to tell both parties at
the time what the condition of fact was, still the whole theory
of the cases which hold it to be the duty of a steamer, meeting another steamer in a fog, to stop or reverse, is based upon
the hypothesis that a collision may thereby be avoided; and
if the facts afterwards ascertained indicate that such maneuvre, under the circumstances of a particular case3 could not
have subserved any useful purpose, the steamer ought not to
be held in fault for the non-observance of the rule. These
rules are intended solely for the prevention of collisions, and
if it be clearly apparent that the observance of a certain rule
would not have prevented a collision in the particular case, the
non-observance of such rule becomes immaterial. Thus, there
are a number of cases holding that after two vessels have
approached each other so near that a collision has become
inevitable or imminent, the master of either may, in the exercise of a sound judgment, put his engines at full speed with a
possibility thereby of escaping contact, or of easing the blow
(as was actually done by the Iberia in this case); although if
he had done it before the collision had become imminent, it
would have been a gross fault. Indeed, Article 23 of the International Regulations makes special provision for exceptional

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

cases by declaring that "in obeying and construing these rules
due regard shall be had to all dangers of navigation, and to any
special circumstances which may render a departure from the
above rules necessary in order to avoid immediate danger."
Upon this subject, it was said by this court in Th4e Cayuga,
14 Wall. 270, 275: "Persons engaged in navigating vessels
upon the seas are bound to observe the nautical rules enacted
by Congress, whenever they apply, and in other cases to be
governed by the rules recognized and approved by the courts.
Nautical rules, however, were framed and are administered to
prevent such disasters and to afford security to life and property, but it is a mistake to suppose that either the act of Congress, or the decisions of the courts, require the observance of
any given rule in a case where it clearly appears that the rule
cannot be followed without defeating the end for which it was
prescribed or without producing the mischief which it was
intended to avert."
,In the English cases above cited, both vessels were proceeding at a rate of speed no greater than that of the Iberia, and
both were held in fault for not stopping and reversing, because,
if that had been done promptly, no collision would have occurred; but, if it turn out that the approaching vessel was
proceeding at such a rate of speed that a collision could not
possibly have been avoided by the other stopping and reversing, it cannot be said to have been at fault with respect to
such approaching vessel, that she still continued to keep her
engines in motion. In this case it is manifest that no precautions on the part of the Iberia would have been of the slightest
avail, in view of. the extraordinary speed of the Umbria. It
is true that if she had stopped promptly, she might not have
reached the point where the courses of the two steamers intersected; but it is equally true that if she had been going at a
much greater speed than she was, she would have passed the
point of intersection before the Umbria reached it. Manifestly
this is not the proper test. The propriety of certain manoeuvres cannot be determined by the chance that the two vessels
may, or may not, reach the point of intersection at the same
time, but by the question whether their speed can be stopped

THE UMBRIA.
Opinion of the Court.

before their arrival at the point where their courses intersect.
If two steamers are approaching each other in a fog, manifestly their manoeuvres must be determined, not by the chance
of their meeting at a point where their courses intersect, but
upon the theory that their-courses shall not actually intersect
-in
other words, that both shall stop before the point of intersection is reached; and if one of them is running at such
a speed that no manceuvre on the part of the other can prevent
that one from passing the point of intersection, the latter only
is responsible.
The court is, therefore, unanimously of opinion that the
damages should not have been divided. The majority think
that the Iberia was not in fault, while other members of the
court rest their conclusion upon the view that, even if she-were
in fault, such fault did not contribute to the collision.
3. Error is also alleged in the refusal of the Court of Appeals to allow as an item of damage the probable profits of a
charter party made October 27, 1888, about a fortnight before
the collision, under which the Iberia, described as then being
on a voyage from Aden to New York, was to proceed to
Cadiz in Spain with a cargo of tobacco. There was clearly
no error in rejecting this item. There is nothing in the peculiar facts of the case to take it out of the general rule that in
cases of total loss by collision damages are limited to the value
of the vessel; with interest thereon, and the net freight pending at the time of the collision. The probable net profits of a
charter may be considered in cases of delay, occasioned by a
partial loss, where the question is as to the value of the use of
the vessel pending her repairs. In such cases the net profits
of a charter, which she would have performed except for the
delay, may be treated a§ a basis for e.stimating the value of
her use. William8on v. Barrett,-13 How. 101, 110, 112 ; The
Potomac, 105 U. S. 630 ; Te Mayflower, Brown's Adm. 376,
The Belgenland,36. Fed. Rep. 504-; The Gorgas, 10 Ben. 666;

The Argenturo, 13 P. D. 191; S. C. 14- App. Cas. 519; The
Mary Steele, 2 Lowell, 370.
But in cases of total loss the probable profits of a charter,

not yet entered upon, are always rejected.

In the case of T/he

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

Amiable Nancy, 3 Wheat. 546, which was one of an illegal
seizure by privateers, a claim made for loss of supposed profits
of the voyage on which the vessel was originally bound was
held to have been properly rejected. Said Mr. Justice Story:
"The probable or possible benefits of a voyage as yet infieri,
can never afford a safe rule by which to estimate damages in
cases of a marine trespass. There is so much uncertainty in
the rule itself, so many contingencies which may vary or extinguish its application, and so many difficulties in sustaining
its legal correctness, that the court cannot believe it proper to
entertain it. In several cases in this court, the claim for profits has been expressly overruled; and in Del Col v. Arnold,
3 Dall. 333, and Tie Anna MIaria, 2 Wheat. 327, it was, after
strict consideration, held, that the prime cost, or value of the
property lost, at the time of the loss, and in case of injury, the
diminution in value, by reason of the injury, yith interest
upon such valuation, afforded the true measure for assessing
damages."
So, in England, in the case of Tie Colunbus, 3 W. Rob. 158,
it was held that where the vessel was sunk in a collision and
compensation awarded to the full value of the vessel, as for a
total loss, the plaintiff would not be entitled to recover anything in the way of demurrage for the loss of the employment
of his vessel, or his own earnings, in consequence of the collision. Seb, also, [The Clyde, Swabey, 23; Tie North Star, 44
Fed. Rep. 492.
In cases of a partial loss there is no injustice in allowing the
probable profits of a charter for the short time during which
the vessel is laid up for repairs, but in cases of a total loss the
recovery of such profits is limited to the voyage which the
vessel is then performing, since, if the owner were entitled to
recover the profits of a future voyage or charter, there would
seem to be no limit to such right so far as respects the time
of its continuance; and if the vessel were under a charter
which had months or years to run, the allowance of the probable profits of such charter might work a great practical
injustice to the owner of the vessel causing the injury.
The cases relied upon by the libellant do not support his con-

THE UMBRIA.
Opinion of the Court.

tention. The Canada,Lushington, 586, was a case of total loss,
in which the measure of the loss of freight was said to be the
gross freight contracted for at the time of the accident, less
the 'charges which would have been necessarily incurred in
earning it. The case is somewhat imperfectly reported. The
vessel was carrying a cargo from Cadiz to St. Johns, New
Brunswick, and was lost before reaching that place. She was
also under a charter to carry timber from Quebec to England,
but it does not appear clearly from the report whether the
freight upon this charter was allowed, or whether the freight
spoken of in the report was not limited to the freight earned
upon the voyage from Cadiz to St. Johns. The Star of India,
1 P. D. 466, was a case of partial loss, and, in addition to demurrage pending repairs, the vessel was allowed a compensation for the loss of a charter party which had been cancelled
by reason of her being unable to take the cargo at the time
agreed upon. This. does not differ materially from the rule
in this country. So, too, in the case of The Consett, 5 P. D.
229, the vessel was injured by collision, and compelled to put
into port to repair. The repairs occupied so long a time that
it was not possible for her to fulfil a charter into which she
had entered, and so was allowed damages for its loss. In the
case of The Freddie L. Porter,8 Fed. Rep. 170, a vessel, totally lost by collision, was chartered for a fixed time, -and was
lost during the continuance of the charter before it had expired. Her owner was allowed the profits of the Whole charter. The decision was admitted to be an advance upon any
which had been previously made, but it is no authority for
the allowance of a charter, the performance of which had not
been entered upon.
Upon the whole, we think the opinion of the Court of Appeals dividing the damages was erroneous, and that
The decree of the District Court qf January13, 1890, with re8,ect to the question of liability should have been a.fflrmed,
and the case is therefore remanded to that court with direction8 to enter a new decree in conformity with this
opinion,

