OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

interpreted as if the proviso in section 1069 of the Revised,
Statutes were added to section 1 of th 4 t act. We could not
hold otherwise without deciding, in effect, that the limitation
of six years applied to claims accruing to married women and
infants during their respective disabilities, as well as to the
claims of idiots, lunatics and insane persons. We are unwilling to hold that Congress intended any such result. We may
add that it was not contemplated that the limitation upon suits
against the Government in the District and Circuit Courts of
the United States should be different from that applicable to
like suits in the Court of Claims.
It results that as the appellee was "beyond the seas" at the
time his demand first accrued, and had not returned to this
country prior to the institution of this suit, his claim was not
barred by limitation. The judgment of the Court of Claims
which is not disputed upon any ground affecting the merits
of the claim in suit- is therefore
Affirmed.

TEXAS

AND

PACIFIC RAILWAY
CODY.

COMPANY

v.

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOE THE FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 246. Argued and submitted March 29, 1897. - Decided April
19, 1897.

The plaintiff in his declaration described himself as a resident fn Texas,
and the defendant as a railway company created and existing under the
laws of Texas. 'The railway company was in fact a corporation organized under and by virtue of acts of Congress, and in a petition for the
removal of the action from a state court of Texas to the Federal court,
set that forth as a ground for removal, and the petition was granted,
and the case was removed to the Circuit Court of the United States, and
tried-and decided there. Held, that the Circuit Court properly entertained
jurisdiction.
In an action against.a railroad company to recover damages for injuries received by a person travelling on a highway, by a collision at a crossing of
the railroad by the highway at grade, an instruction to the jury that the
obligations, rights and duties of railroads and travellers upon highways
crossing-them are mutual and reciprocal, and that no greater care is re-

TEXAS AND PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. v. CODY.

607

Opinion of the Court.
quired of the one than of the other is substantially correct. Continental
Improvement Co. v. Stead, 95 U. S. 161, followed.
The instructions as to damages were not incorrect. If the company desired
particular instructions, it should have asked for them.

was an action commenced by Henry D. Cody against
the Texas and Pacific Railway Company in the District Court
of Tarrant County, Texas, and removed by defendant to the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern District
of Texas.
Plaintiff alleged in his petition that on March 4, 1892, he
was injured at the crossing of the track of the defendant company over Jennings Avenue in the city of Fort Worth, Texas,
by the carelessness and negligence of the defendant and its
agents and servants. Defendant demurred generally and
pleaded the general issue, and, in special pleas, alleged the
contributory negligence of plaintiff and his failure to exercise
due care under the circumstances. The issues were submitted
to a jury, which found a verdict in favor of plaintiff for the
sum of $7500, pn which judgment was rendered. The case
was taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit and the judgment affirmed, 30 U. S. App. 183, whereupon
it was brought to this court by writ of error.
THIS

Mr. David D. Duncan for plaintiff in error. .r. John F.
Dillon and Mr. Winslow F. Pierce were on his brief.
Mr. Ernest B. Kruttschmitt, Mr. Edgar I-i. Farrar,Mr.
Benjamin F. Jonas, Mr. Ilewes T. Gurley and Mr. Thomas
F. West, for defendant in error, submitted on their brief.
MR.CHIEF JUSTIcE FULLER, after stating the case as above,
delivered the opinion of the court.

The railway company raises a preliminary question of jurisdiction. Plaintiff below described himself in his petition as
a resident of Tarrant County, Texas, and alleged the Texas
and Pacific Railway Company to be "a private corporation,
created and existing under the laws of the State of Texas,"
and that "the defendant owns and operates a line of railway

608

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

extending into and running through said Tarrant County, and
into and through the city of Fort Worth, Tarrant County,
Texas, and has for the purpose of conducting and carrying on
its business in the management and operation of said line of
railway an office and agency, and an agent and representative,
in the city of Fort Worth, in said Tarrant County, upon whom
citation may be served in this case, the name of the said agent
being J. T. Clements."
The defendant company filed its petition for removal in due
time, which, in addition to other necessary averments, stated
"that at the commencement of this suit plaintiff was then and
still is a citizen and resident of the State of Texas, and that
your petitioner was then and still is a corporation organized
under and by virtue of certain acts of Congress of the United
States, to wit: an act entitled 'An act to incorporate the
Texas and Pacific Railway Company and to aid in the construction of its road and other purposes,' approved March 3,
1871 ; and an act supplementary thereto approved March 2,
1872; and that this is a suit arising under the laws of the
United States within the meaning of the 2d section of an act
of March 3, 1875, as amended by the acts of March 3, 1887,
and August 13, 1888."
Bond was tendered and approved and the case removed
accordingly. There is no controversy over the fact that the
defendant corporation owed its existence to acts of Congress,
and was entitled to remove the cause as one arising under the
laws of the United States in accordance with the decision of
this court in Pacific Railroad Removal cases, 115 U. S. 1;
but the railway company expresses apprehension lest we may
hold that jurisdiction was not. maintainable within the rule
laid down in Tennessee v. Union & Planters'Bank, 152 U. S.
454, and other cases, because plaintiff below did not allege that
defendant was a Federal corporation, but rather the contrary.
The rule thus referred to, and reiterated in Chapell v. Waterworth, 155 U. S.102; Postal Tel. cable Co. v. Alabama, 155
U. S.482; and Oregon iS'ort Line &c. Railway v. Skottowe,
162'U. S.490, is that under the acts of March 3, 1887, c. 373,
and August 13, 1888, c. 866, a case not depending on the citi-

TEXAS AND PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. v. CODY

609

Opinion of the Court.

zenship of the parties, nor otherwise specially provided for,
cannot be removed from a state court into the Circuit Court
of the United States, as one arising under the Constitution,
laws or treaties of the United States, unless that appears by
the plaintiff's statement of his own claim ; and that, if it does
not so appear, the want cannot be supplied by any statement
in the petition for removal or in the subsequent pleadings.
By the acts of Congress of 1887 and 1888, the jurisdiction
of the Circuit Court on removal by defendant (and defendants
alone can remove) is limited to such suits as might have been
originally brought in that court; and it is essential if the jurisdiction is invoked on the ground that the cause of action
arises under the Constitution, laws or treaties of the United
States that this should be asserted. If recovery directly depends upon a right claimed under the Constitution, laws or
treaties, plaintiff's statement of his case must necessarily disclose the fact, and if the action is brought in the state court,
defendant can remove it. If, however, plaintiff asserts no
such right, and defendant puts his defence on the possession
of such right, or its denial to plaintiff, though essential to his
recovery, then defendant is remitted to his writ of error from
this court to the state court to test the Federal questions thus
raised.
It is obvious that in the instance of diverse citizenship a
different question is presented. Plaintiff may run his own
risk in respect of the cause of action on which he proceeds,
but he cannot cut off defendant's constitutional right as a
citizen of a different State than the plaintiff, to choose a Federal forum, by omitting to aver, or mistakenly, or falsely,
stating, the citizenship of the parties.
And this must be so also as to Federal railroad corporations.
It was held in the Paci,#c RailroadRemoval cases that as all
the faculties and capacities possessed by such corporations
were derived from their acts of incorporation by Congress,
all their doings arose out of those laws, and, therefore, suits
by and against them were "suits arising under the laws of the
United States." Conceding this, the prinaiple applicable to
diverse citizenship may reasonably be applied to them.
VOL. CLXVI-39

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

If in this case plaintiff had simply described defendant by
its name, without more, there would sepm to be no question
that, as the corporation was judicially known to be a Federal
corporation, defendant would be entitled to remove the case
on proper allegations in its petition; and we think this necessarily follows, where, by some mistake, or otherwise, the defendant is erroneously stated to be created under state laws.
Here defendant was described as "a private corporation,
created and existing under the laws of the State of Texas,"
and this was repeated in an amended petition, filed in the Circuit Court; but no motion to remand was made, nor was the
propriety of the removal questioned in any way. Possibly
the pleader did not intend to deny the Federal character of
the company, hut whether so or not, no issue was or could be
made as to the source of its corporate existence.
Oregon Short Line .&c. Bailway v. Skottowe, 162 U. S.
490, is in harmony with these views. That was an action
brought in a court of the State of Oregon to recover for personal i njuries alleged to have been caused, in Oregon, by the
negligence of the defendant company. A petition for removal
was filed and denied, and this denial was approved by the Supreme Court of Oregon. Defendant was described in the
complaint as "a corporation duly organized, existing and doing
business in the State of Oregon." In the removal petition
the defendant was alleged to be a consolidated'company, cornposed of several railway corporations severally organized and
created under the laws, of the Territories of Utah and Wyoming and of the State of Nevada, and under an act of Congress, approved August 2, 1882, c. 372, 22 Stat. 185, entitled
"An act creating the Oregon Short Line Railway Company,
a corporation in the Territories of Utah, Idaho and Wyoming,
and for other purposes"; and an act of Congress, approved
June 20, 1878, c. 352, 20 Stat. 241, making the Utah and
Northern Railway Company a railway corporation in the Territories of Utah, Idaho and Montana.
This court held that, so far as appeared, the defendant
company existed and was doing business in the State of Oregon solely under the authority of that State, whether express

TEXAS AND PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. v. CODY.

611

Opinion of the Court.

or permissive; that the acts of Congress referred to did not
disclose any intention on the part of Congress to confer powers
or rights to be exercised outside of the Territories named
therein, and that the Supreme Court of Oregon committed no
error in affirming the action of the trial court denying the
petition for removal.
We are of opinion that the Circuit Court properly entertained jurisdiction.
Turning to the case on the merits, we find no reason for
disturbing the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals.
Fourteen errors were assigned in that court to the judgment
of the Circuit Court, which were reduced to six in this court,
of which the first was merely that the Court of Appeals erred
in affirming the judgment. The five specific grounds of error
assigned are that the Circuit Court erred in refusing to give
each of the following instructions asked for by defendant:
"1. The defendant asks the court to instruct, the jury to
return a verdict in this case for the defendant."
"3. You are instructed that. it was the duty of plaintiff
upon approaching the railroad track on Jennings Avenue crossing, if he was hurt on said crossing, to stop and look and listen
for the approach of the train on the track before attempting
to pass over said crossing, and if you believe from the evidence
that he failed to stop and look and listen and that in consequence of such failure he was injured, you will find for defendant, even though you should believe from the evidence that
the defendant was negligent either in respect to not furnishing a light at said crossing or in respect to not giving signals of the approach of the train or was negligent in respect
to both of such matters."
"7. You are instructed that the rights of the railway company and of the public are not equal, but that the right of
the company is superior to the right of the travelling public
on all parts of its track, even at crossings."
And that there was error in that portion of the charge relating to the right of a person crossing a railroad track to
expect the railroad company to give the signals required by
law; and in that relating to the damages.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

There was evidence tending to show that on March 4, 1892,
on a very dark night, plaintiff was walking along Jennings
Avenue, in Fort Worth, and towards the track of defendant,
which he approached from the south and which crossed Jefferson Avenue at right angles; that as he approached he slackened his pace, walked slowly, listened, looked and saw and
heard no train; that there was no light on the crossing, no
bell ringing, no blowing of a whistle and no light indicating
the approach of a train; and that, as he passed over the track,
he was struck by a train backing over the crossing, knocked
down and severely injured. The evidence was conflicting
on the questions of negligence and contributory negligence,
and the Circuit Court did not err in refusing to peremptorily
instruct the jury in defendant's favor.
So far as the refusal of defendant's instructions, numbered
"3 " and "7" is concerned, the charge must be considered as
a whole, as however correct either of them might be, the court
was not obliged to use the language of counsel, and if the
jury were otherwise properly advised on these points that was
sufficient.
And this observation is applicable also to the exception to
the reference to the giving of signals. That cannot be passed
on as an isolated proposition.
After giving certain instructions requested by defendant,
the court instructed the jury as follows:
"In this case the jury are instructed that plaintiff sues the
defendant for the sum of $10,000, which he says he is entitled
to by reason of injuries inflicted on him by defendant company
in crushing his leg and causing its amputation, by serious injuries to his head, and by the bodily and mental pain incident
and resulting from said injuries, as also from his diminished
capacity to earn a living. He also alleges that he has incurred
liabilities for nursing, lodging, attention and physician, in the
sum of $700.
"2d. If you believe from the evidence that plaintiff was
injured on defendant's track east of Jennings Avenue, then
you will find for the defendant.
"3d. If, however, the jury find from the evidence that the

TEXAS AND PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. v. CODY.

613

Opinion of the Court.

plaintiff was injured by the defendant on its track on the crossing of Jennings Avenue in Fort Worth, then you are instructed
that the statutes of the State of Texas provide ' that each locomotive engine shall have on it a bell or a steam whistle, and
that the bell shall be rung or the whistle blown at the distance
of at least eighty rods from the place where the railroad shall
cross any road or street, and to be kept ringing or blowing
until it shall have crossed such road or street or stopped.'
"4th. The plaintiff, if he was injured on Jennings Avenue
while attempting to cross defendant's track, was required to
use due care himself to avoid danger. The care which a person who crosses a railroad track on a street in a city is required
to use is a question of fact for the jury. It varies with the
Such person is required to use
surrounding circumnstances.
due care to avoid danger; should he not do so, and his own
negligence is the proximate cause of his injuries, he cannot
recover, although the railroad company may not have given
the signals which the law requires to indicate the approach of
the train.
"5th. Should you believe from the evidence that the plaintiff knew, or by the use of reasonable diligence might have
known, of the approach of defendant's train, and thereby have
avoided the danger, then you will find for the defendant.
"6th. If, on the other hand, you believe from the evidence
that the plaintiff's negligence was not the proximate cause of
his injuries and that plaintiff, without fault on his part, was
injured by defendant at Jennings Avenue crossing through
want of proper care on the part of the defendant, then you
will find for plaintiff, in any sum not to exceed $10,000.
"A person attempting to cross a railroad track has the right
to.expect that the railroad will give the signals required by
law, and if he is without fault and such neglect on the part of
the road results in his injury, then he can recover.
"7th. The degree of care that was proper care on the part
of the plaintiff and defendant must fit and grow out of the
time, the occasion and circumstances. If the night was dark
and misty and no arc light or other light lit up the crossing at
Jennings Avenue, then to the extent that such facts, if at all,

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

increased the danger at the crossing of Jennings Avenue, then
to that extent was greater care and'prudence required of both
plaintiff and defendant at said crossing.
"8th. The care to be exercised is such as an ordinary
prudent man would exercise under sinilar circumstances.
This is the true rule whether applied to the alleged negligence of the railroad company or the alleged contributory
negligence of the plaintiff, and what is due care under a given
state of facts must be determined by the jury by applying
the rule as to what in their judgment a man of ordinary prudence would have done under the circumstances shown by the
evidence.
9th. If plaintiff was injured at the crossing of Jennings
Avenue ove' defendant's track and his failure to use the care
that a person of ordinary prudence would have used under
the cixcumstances was the proximate cause of his injuries then
he cannot recover although defendant may have also been
guilty of negligence in the matter of failing to ring the bell
on the engine or in some other matter."
We think that this gave the law to the jury with substantial correctness and fully covered all that the company
had the right to demand.
The Circuit Court applied the settled rule as expounded by
Mr. Justice Bradley in Continental Jmnprovement Company v.
Stead, 95 U. S. 161. That was the case of a collision of a
special railroad train with a wagon. There was evidence
tending to show that the plaintiff, who was driving the
wagon, looked to the southward, from which direction the
next regular train was to come, and did not look northwardly
from which this train came; that his wagon produced much
noise as it moved over the frozen ground; that his hearing
was somewhat impaired; and that he did not stop before
attempting to cross the track. The evidence was conflicting
as to whether the customary and proper signals were given
by those in charge of the locomotive, and as to the rate of
speed at which the train was running at the time. The
counsel for the railroad company requested the court to
give certain specific instructions, to the general effect that

TEXAS AND PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. v. CODY.

615

Opinion of the Court.

the plaintiff should have looked out for the train, and was
chargeable with negligence in not having done so; and that
it is the duty of those crossing a railroad to listen and look
both ways along the railroad before going on it, and to
ascertain whether a train is approaching or not. The trial
judge refused to adopt the instructions framed by counsel, and
charged that both parties were bound to exercise such care as
under ordinary circumstances would avoid danger; such care
as men of common prudence and intelligence would ordinarily use under like circumstapces; that the amount of care
required depended upon the risk of danger; and explained
the circumstances which bore on that question. He charged,
in short, that the obligations, rights and duties of railroads
and travellers upon highways crossing them are mutual and
reciprocal, and no greater degree of care is required of the
one than of the other.
Mr. Justice Bradley said: "If a railroad crosses a common
road on the same level, those travelling on either have a legal
right to pass over the point of crossing, and to require due care
on the part of those travelling on the other, to avoid a collision. Of course, these mutual rights have respect to other
relative rights subsisting between the parties. From the
character and momentum of a railroad train, and the requirements of public travel by means thereof, it cannot be
expected that it shall stop and give precedence to an approaching wagon to make the crossing first; it is the duty
of the wagon to wait for the train. The train has the preference and right of way. But it is bound to give due warning
of its approach, so that the wagon may stop and allow it to
pass, and to use every exertion to stop if the wagon is inevitably in the way. Such warning must be reasonable and
timely. But what is reasonable and timely warning may
depend on many circumstances. . . . On the other hand,
those who are crossing a railroad track are bound to exercise
ordinary care and diligence to ascertain whether a train is
approaching.
We think the judge was perfectly
right, therefore, in holding that the obligations, rights and
duties of railroads and travellers upon intersecting highways

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the CourtL

are mutual and reciprocal, and that no greater degree of care
is required of the one than of the other. For, conceding that
the railway train has the right of precedence in crossing, the
parties are still on equal terms as to the exercise of care and
diligence in regard to their relative duties. The right of precedence referred to does not impose upon the wagon the whole
duty of avoiding a collision. It is accompanied with, and conditioned upon, the duty of the train to give due and timely
warning of approach. The duty of the wagon to yield precedence is based upon this condition. Both parties are charged
with a mutual duty of keeping a careful lookout for danger;
and the degree of diligence to be exercised' on either side is
such as a prudent man would exercise under the circumstances
of the case in endeavoring fairly to perform his duty.
The mistake of the defendant's counsel consists in seeking to
impose upon the wagon too exclusively the duty.of avoiding
collision, and to relieve the train too entirely from responsibility in the matter. Railway companies cannot expect this
immunity so long as their tracks cross the highways of the
country upon the same level. The people have the same
right to travel on the ordinary highways as the railway
companies have to run trains on the railroads."
The case was reaffirmed, quoted from and followed in
Baltimore & Ohio Railroad Company v. Griffith, 159 U. S.
603.
Tested by these principles, the Circuit Court did not err in
the matters complained of.
Nor was there error in respect of the question of damages.
What the trial judge said on that subject, taken together,
was not incorrect, and if the railway company bad desired
particular instructions in reference to the measure of damages,
it should have requested them, which it did not do. Texas &
Pacific Railway v. Volk, 151 U. S. 73.
Judgment affirmed.

