OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

made by the defendant were essentially the same as that covered by the patent there could be no recovery, and the verdict
necessarily established their identity.
There was no error in the ruling of the court below, and
Affirmed..
its judgment is, therefore,

FORSYTH v. HAMMOND.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SEVENTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 615. Argued January 20, 1897. -Deided

April 19, 1891.

Under the judiciary act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, the power of this court Ia
certiorari extends to every case pending in the Circuit Courts of Appeals
and may be exercised at any time during such pendency, provided the
case is one which, but for this provision of the statute, would be finally
determined in that court.
While this power is coextensive with all possible necessities, and sufficient
to secure to this court a final control over the litigation in all the courts
of appeal, it is a power which will be sparingly exercised, and only when
the circumstances of the case satisfy this court that the importance of
the question involved, the necessity of avoiding conflict between two or
more courts of appeal, or between courts of appeal and the courts of a
State, or some matter affecting the interests of the Nation, in its internar
or external relations, demands such exercise.
As, in the contests between the parties to this suit, the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Seventh Circuit and the Supreme Court of the State of
Indiana had reached opposite conclusions as to their respective rights,.
and as all the unfortunate possibilities of conflict and collision which,
might arise from these adverse decisions were suggested when this
application for certiorari was made, it seemed to this court that,
although no final decree had been entered, it was its duty to bring the
case and the questions here for examination at the earliest possiblemoment.
The plaintiff In error having voluntarily commenced an action in the
Supreme Court of the State to establish her rights against the city of
Hammond, and the questions at issue being judicial in nature and within
the undoubted cognizance of the state court, she cannot, after a decision
by that court be heard in any other tribunal to collaterally deny Its.
validity.
Though the form and causes of action be different, a decision by a court of

FORSYTH v. HAMMOND.
Statement of the Case.
competent jurisdiction in respect to any essential fact or question in one
action is conclusive between the parties in all subsequent actions.
The matter of the territorial boundaries of a municipal corporation is local
in its nature, and, as a rule, is to be finally and absolutely determined by
the authorities of the State.
The construction of the constitution and laws of a State by its courts is, as
a general rule, binding on Federal courts.
The case of Burgess v. Seligman, 107 U. S. 20, distinguished from this case.

THE legislation of Indiana authorizes the annexation of
contiguous territory to the limits of a city with or without

the consent of the owner. The statutory provisions in respect thereto, found in 1 Horner's An. Ed. Ind. Stat. 1896 are
printed in the margin.'
13195. EXTENSION OVER FLATTED LOTS - 84. Whenever there shall be
or may have been lots laid off and platted adjoining such city, and a record
of the same is made in the recorder's office of the proper county, the common council may, by a resolution of the board, extend the boundary of .5uch
city so as to include such lots; and the lots thus annexed shall thereafter
form a part of such city and be within the jurisdiction of the same. The
common council shall immediately thereafter file a copy of such resolution,
defining the metes and boundaries of such addition, in the office of the
recorder aforesaid; which shall be recorded.
3196. EXTENSION OVER CONTIGUOUS LANDS - ACTION OF COUNCIL-85.
The limits of any city may be extended over any lands or contiguous territory, by the consent of the owner thereof in writing, and a resolution of
the common council, passed by a two-thirds vote, extending the limits of
such city over such lands or territory; which written consent and resolution shall be entered at length in the records of such city; and the common
council shall cause a certified copy of both to be recorded In the recorder's
office of the proper county. If any city shall desire to annex contiguous
territory not laid off in lots, and to the annexation of which the owner will
not consent, the common council shall present to the board of county commissioners a petition setting forth the reasons of such annexation, and, at
the same time, present to such board an accurate description, by metes and
bounds, accompanied with a plat of the lands or territory proposed or desired to be annexed to such city. The common council shall give thirty
days' notice, by publication in some newspaper of the city, of the intended
petition, describing in such notice the territory sought to be annexed.
3197. PROCEEDINGS BY COUNTY BOARD - 86. The board of county commissioners, upon the reception of such petition, shall consider the same,
and shall hear the testimony offered for or against such annexation; and if,
after inspection of the map and of the proceedings had in the case, such
board is of the opinion that the prayer of the petition should be granted,
it shall cause an entry to be made in the order book, specifying the territory

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

The city of Hammond is situated in the county of Lake,
and in 1893 it instituted proceedings to extend its limits over
a large tract of contiguous territory, some of which at least
was not laid off and platted into lots. The application was
denied by the board of county commissioners of Lake County,
whereupon the city appealed to the Circuit Court of that county,
and the case thus appealed was thereafter transferred by change
of venue to the circuit court of Porter County, Indiana, which
court, upon the verdict of a jury, entered a decree in favor of
the city for the annexation of the territory.
The present plaintiff was a party to these proceedings. She
was the owner of about seven hundred and twenty-five acres
within the area attempted to be annexed. After the decision
annexed, with the boundaries of the same according to the survey; and
they shall cause an attested copy of the entry to be filed with the recorder
of such county, which shall be duly recorded in his office, and which shall
be conclusive evidence of such annexation in all courts in this State.
3243. APPEAL PROH COUNTY BOARD - 1. In proceedings before the
board of county commissioners for the annexation of territory to cities and
towns against the will of the owner, the petitioner and the owner of any
portion of the territory proposed to be annexed may appeal to the Circuit
Court from the final decision of the board, by filing, within thirty days,
with the auditor, a bond or undertaking for the due prosecution of the
appeal and payment of all costs that may be adjudged against the appellant,
with sureties, to be approved by the board or the auditor. But no appeal
shall be dismissed for want of a sufficient bond or undertaking, if one shall
be filed, under the direction of the court, at any time before the trial.
3244. AUDITOR's DUTY- 2. Within twenty days after filing the appeal
bond or undertaking, the auditor shall deliver it, with all the other papers
in the cause and a complete transcript of the proceedings of the board to the
clerk of the Circuit Court, who shall docket it with the other causes pending therein.
3245. TRIAL- 3. The appeal shall stand for trial, when taken during the
session of the board, at the first term after the papers shall have been filed
ten days, and, when taken in vacation, at the first term after summons
shall have been served upon the appellee ten days before the first day of
such term. The appeal shall be tried and determined as an original cause.
3246. EFFECT or APPEAL-4. All further proceedings in the annexation
of territory shall be suspended until the final disposition of the appeal.
The court may make a final determination of the proceeding and compel its
execution, or may send its decision to the board, with direction how to
proceed', and require compliance.

FORSYTH v. HAMMOND.
Statement of the Case.

by the circuit court of Porter County the city levied taxes
on the property to the amount of $3500, whereupon on April
26, 1895, she filed her bill in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Indiana, praying for an injunction
to restrain the collection of those taxes. An amended bill was
filed on May 1, 1895, upon which amended bill a hearing was
had, resulting in a denial of the motion for an injunction
and the dismissal of the suit. 68 Fed. Rep. 774. From such
dismissal she appealed to the Court of Appeals for the Seventh
Circuit, by which court, on January 16, 1896, the decree of
the Circuit Court dismissing the bill was reversed, and the case
remanded to that court, with directions for further proceedings.y 34 U. S. App. 552. Whereupon the city of Hammond
applied to this court for a certiorari, directed to the Court of
Appeals, which application was sustained, and on October 19,
1896, a certiorari was ordered.
Before the filing of the bill in the United States Circuit
Court this plaintiff with others had appealed from the decree
of the cirduit court of Porter County to the Supreme Court of
Indiana, and by that court, on April 11, 1895, the decree had
been affirmed. 142 Indiana, 505. A petition for rehearing
was denied on November 8, 1895. 142 Indiana, 516. While
this decision of the Supreme Court, though announced before
the disposition of the case in the United States Circuit Court
of Appeals, has not been formally incorporated into the record
by an amendment of the pleadings or otherwise, it was made
a matter of consideration by the Court of Appeals, and has
been discussed and treated by counsel in the arguments before
us as a fact in thb case and to be considered in determining
the questions that are presented.
The bill alleged that the plaintiff's lands were used solely
for pasturage and hay and other agricultural purposes; that
the real value did not exceed $ 00 per acre; that the land had
no market value, but only one speculative and prospective,
dependent upon the location, not yet secured, of manufacturing-establishments whose market and offices would be in
Chicago; that no part of the land had ever been mapped or
platted with a view to the sale of lots; that on the entire

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

tract there were but twenty-one dwelling houses, ten of them
being in a row and within about a quarter of a mile of the
town of Whiting, in the county of Lake, in which town the
tenants of all said houses were engaged in business and work;
that the houses on the lands were four and one half miles
distant from any police station, fire-engine house or gas lamp
of the city of Hammond, so that in the nature of things no
benefit could be received from the municipal government of
that city ; that the lands were valued for taxation by the city
at the rate of $250 to $500 per acre, and the taxes thereon
amounted to about $5 per acre; that the valuation was enormously in excess of the real value and the taxes exorbitant,
oppressive and extortionate. The bill further alleged that at
the time the annexation proceedings were instituted the city
of Hammond did not contain more than 6000 or 7000 inhabitants; that it had territory about three miles long by two
miles wide; that on the northern boundary and within the
limits of the city were about two square miles of lands, no
part of which ha& ever been laid off into lots and blocks, on
one of which there was not a single house or road and on the
other but seven houses and one road; that this vacant tract was
between the settled parts of the city and the lands of the complainant; that the part of the city of Hammond laid off into
lots is much larger than is likely to be required for city purposes for many years to come ; that the city's boundaries
contained nearly four thousand acres, and that the territory
attempted to be annexed consisted of about five square miles
of practically vacant lands lying directly north of the city liinits and extending all the way from such limits to the shores
of Lake Michigan. Other facts were alleged also tending to
show the impropriety of the annexation of this comparatively
vacant territory to the city of Hammond. It was specifically
charged that the city of Hammond had a municipal debt
amounting to nearly twice the constitutional limit, and that
the purpose of the annexation was by adding new property at
an exaggerated valuation to so increase the appraised taxables
of said city as to lift it out of its constitutional dilemma without regard whatever to the advantages or benefits to the

FORSYTH v. HAMMOND.
Opinion of the Court.

property- so sought to be annexed. The bill further set forth
the proceedings before the county commissioners and in the
state Circuit Court, but averred that those proceedings were
void because the enlargement of the limits of a city was a
matter of legislative and not of judicial cognizance, and
that it was not competent for the legislature to entrust to
the courts the decision of such questions.
Yr. Benjamin IIarrison and Mr. T. H. I. Miller for Mrs.
Forsyth. Mr. John B. Elamn was on their brief.
Mr. Charles I. Aldrich for the city of Hammond. Mr.
Frank F. Reed and Mr. . W. Crumpacker were on his brief.
MR. JUSTIcE BREWER, after stating the case, deliver~d the
opinion of the court.
The first proposition of counsel for plaintiff is that the writ
of certiorari was prematurely issued, and that this court could
not at that time rightfully take jurisdiction of the case because
there had been no final decree. The Court of Appeals simply
reversed the decree of the Circuit Court and remanded the
case for further proceedings. This contention involves two
matters: First, the question of power, and second, that of propriety. It may be that the question of propriety should be
considered as foreclosed by the action of the court in awarding the writ of certiorari, but the question of power, being
one of jurisdiction, is always open, and must whenever presented be considered and determined.
This question of power has, indeed, already been decided
by this court in prior cases, A merican Construction Company
v. Jacksonville, Tampa, &c. Railway Company, 148 U. S. 372,
383; The Three Friends,166 U. S. 1; but as it has again been
discussed by counsel, a brief reference to those cases and the
reasons therein stated may not be inappropriate. Up to the
time of the passage of the act of 1891, creating the Circuit
Courts of Appeal, the theory of Federal jurisprudence had
been, a single appellate court, to wit, the Supreme Court of

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

the United States, by which a final review of all cases of
which te lower Federal courts had jurisdiction was to be
made. It is true there existed certain limitations upon the
right of appeal and review, based on the amount in controversy and other considerations; but such limitations did not
recognize or provide for the existence of another appellate
court, and did not conflict with the thought that this court
was to be the single tribunal for reviewing all cases and questions of a Federal nature. The rapid growth of the country
and the enormous amount of litigation involving questions of
a Federal character so added to the number of cases brought
here for review, that it was impossible for this court to keep
even pace with the growing docket. The situation had
become one of great peril, and many plans for relief were
suggested and discussed.
The outcome was the act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, 26 Stat.
826, the thought of which was the creation in each of the nine
circuits of an appellate tribunal composed of three judges,
whose decision in certain classes of cases appealable thereto
should be final. _McLish v. Roft 141 U. S. 661, 666. While
this division of appellate power was the means adopted to
reduce the accumulation of business in this court, it was foreseen that injurious results might follow if an absolute finality
of determination was given to the Courts. of Appeal. Nine
sepArate appellate tribunals might by their differences of opinion, unless held in check by the reviewing power of this court,
create an unfortunate confusion in respect to the rules of Federal decision. As the Courts of Appeal would often be constitilted of two Circuit Judges and one District Judge, a division
of opinion between the former might result in a final judgment
where the opinions of two judges of equal rank were on each
side of the questions involved. Cases of a class in which
finality of decision was given to the Circuit Courts of Appeal
might involve questions of such public and national importance
as to require that a consideration and determination thereof
should be made by the supreme tribunal of the nation. It
was obvious that all contingencies in which a decision by this
tribunal was of importance could not be foreseen, and so there

FORSYTH v. HAMMOND.
Opinion of the Court.

was placed in the act creating the Courts of Appeal, in addition
to other provisions for review by this court, this enactment:
"And excepting also that in any such case as is hereinbefore
made final in the Circuit Court of Appeals it shall be competent
for the Supreme Court to require, by certiorari or otherwise,
any such case to be certified to the Supreme Court for its
review and determination with the same power and authority
in the case as if it had been carried by appeal or writ of error
to the Supreme Court."
The general language of this clause is noticeable. It applies
to every case in which but for it the decision of the Circuit
Court of Appeals would be absolutely final, and authorizes this
court to bring before it for review and determination the case
so pending in the Circuit Court of Appeals, and to exercise all
the power and authority over it which this court would have
in any case brought to it by appeal or writ of error. Unquestionably, the generality of this provision was not a mere
matter of accident. It expressed the thought of Congress
distinctly and clearly, and was intended to vest in this court
a comprehensive and unlimited power. The power thus given
is not affected by the condition of the case as it exists in the
Court of Appeals. It may be exercised before or after any
decision by that court and irrespective of any ruling or determination therein. All that is essential is that there be a case
pending in the Circuit Court of Appeals, and of those classes
of cases in which the decision of that court isdeclared a
finality, and this court may, by virtue of this clause, reach
out its writ of certiorari and transfer the case here for review
and determination. Obviously,'a power so broad and comprehensive, if carelessly exercised, might defeat the very thought
and purpose of the act creating the courts of appeal. So exercised it might burden the docket of this court with cases which
it was the intent of Congress to terminate in the Courts of
Appeal, and which, brought here, would simply prevent that
promptness of decision which in all judicial actions is one of
the elements of justice.
So it has been that this court, while not doubting its power,
has been chary of action in respect to certioraries. It has
voL. cLxvI-33

514

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

said: "It is evident that it is solely questions of gravity and
importance that the Circuit Courts of Appeal should certify
to us for instruction ; and .that it is only when such questions
are involved that the power of this court to require a case
in which the judgment and decree of the Court of Appeals is made final, to be certified, can be properly invoked."
-Lau Ow Bew, Petitioner,141 U. S. 583, 587; In re Woods,
143 U. S. 202; -Lau Ow Bew v. United States, 144 U. S. 47,
58 ; American Construction Coinpany v. Jacksonville Railway
Company, 148 U. S. 372, 383.
We have declined to issue writs of certiorari in cases where,
there being only a matter of private interest, there had been
no final judgment in the Court of Appeals. Chicago & Northwestern Railway v. Osborne, 146 U. S. 354. On the other
hand, in The Three Friends,at the present term, ante, 1, we
issued a writ of certiorari in a case appealed to the Circuit
Court of Appeals before any action had been taken by that
court; but this was in view of the fact that the question
involved was one affecting the relations of this country to
foreign nations, and therefore one whose prompt decision by
this court was of importance, not merely for the guidance of
the Executive Department of the Government, but also to
disclose to each citizen the limits beyond which he might not
go in interfering in the affairs of another nation without violating the laws of this.
We reaffirm in this case the propositions heretofore announced, to wit, that the power of this court in certiorari
extends to every case pending in the Circuit Courts of Appeal,
and may be exercised at any time during such pendency, provided the case is one which but for this provision of the
statute would be finally determined in that court. And
further, that while this power is coextensive with all possible
necessities and sufficient to secure to this court a final control
over the litigation in all the Courts of Appeal, it is a power
which will be sparingly exercised, and only when the circumstances of the case satisfy us that the importance of the
question involved, the necessity of avoiding conflict between
two or more Courts of Appeal, or between Courts of Appeal

FORSYTH v. HAMMOND.
Opinion of the Court.

and the courts of a State, or some matter affecting the interests
of this nation in its internal or external relations, demands
such exercise.
Among the considerations thus suggested are those which
indicate why in this case the court properly exercised its
power and issued the writ of certiorari. There was a conflict
between the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Seventh Circuit and the Supreme Court of the State of
Indiana. The latter court had declared that the proceedings
by which the contiguous territory was annexed to the city of
Hammond were legal, and, therefore, that that territory was
to be considered by all the officers of the State of Indiana as
within the territorial limits of the city. The United States
Circuit Court of Appeals by its decision in this case had
declared that such annexation proceedings were invalid ; and
that the property of this petitioner was not within the city
limits. This tract of plaintiff's was not on the extreme limit
of the lands sought to be incorporated into the city, and if
the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals was enforced
there would be a tract of a few hundred acres within the
exterior boundaries of the city of Hammond, as defined by
the judgment of the Supreme Court of the State, withdrawn
from the city's jurisdiction, and in fact excepted from its
territorial limits. All the unfortunate possibilities of conflict
and collision which might arise from these adverse decisions
were suggested when this application for certiorari was made,
and, although no final decree had been entered, it seemed to
us a duty to bring the case and the question here for examination at the earliest possible moment.
Coming now to the merits of the case it appears that on
the pivotal question of the validity of the annexation proceedings the decision of the Supreme Court of the State is
one way and that of the Court of Appeals directly the reverse. It is insisted by the plaintiff that the determination
of the boundaries of a municipal corporation in the first
instance, and any subsequent change in its boundaries by
annexation of outside territory, are matters solely of legislative cognizance, and not judicial in their nature; that such

•OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

is the general rule obtaining in the several States of the Union
and up to the time of the decision of the Supreme Court of
Indiana in this controversy, recognized in that State as elsewhere; that, therefore, the judicial proceedings in respect to
this c6ntroversy in the courts of the State, culminating in the
decision of its highest court, were beyond the jurisdiction of
such courts, and not to be regarded as creating an adjudication binding upon other tribunals. Article 3 of the state
constitution is referred to, which reads: "The powers of the
government are divided into three separate departments; the
legislative, the executive, including the administrative, and
the judicial; and no person charged with official duties under
one of these departments shall exercise any of the functions
of another, except as in this constitution expressly provided."
It is not denied that quest-ions of a judicial nature may grow
out of proceedings to annex territory to a municipal corporation, but it is insisted that the annexation itself is a legislative
function, and must be determined by direct action of the legislature or some subordinate body exercising legislative functions. The Supreme Court of Indiana in its opinion on the
petition for rehearing, 142 Indiana, 516, said: "It may be
conceded that annexation of territory to a city is a legislative
function. This function is exercised by the common council
when it resolves to annex certain described lands to the city,
and to present a petition therefor to the county board."
This suggestion is vigorously attacked by counsel for plaintiff, as lifting the em parte action of one party to a controversy
to the dignity of the exercise of a legislative function and
making it the equivalent of a legislative determination.
But back of any criticism of the reasoning of the Supreme
Court in its two opinions lies the fact of its decision. And
here these things appear. The city of Hammond sought to
bring within its limits, among other territory, the lands of
plaintiff. After action by the city council, the city instituted
proceedings before the county commissioners, which proceedings were subsequently taken by appeal, as prescribed by
statute, to the Circuit Court, a court of general jurisdiction,
and in that court a decree was entered annexing plaintiff's.

FORSYTH v. HA.MMOND,
Opinion of the Court.

lands to the city of Hammond. Were or were not these
proceedings valid, and was or was not such decree a binding adjudication which neither the city nor the plaintiff could
elsewhere dispute? That question certainly is one of a judicial
nature. Now, it is no less a judicial function to consider
whether those proceedings and that decree were valid and
-effective, and determine that they were and operated to
annex plaintiff's territory to the city, than to enter upon a
like consideration and determine that they were invalid and
ineffective to make such annexation.
The decision of the
Supreme Court of Indiana was in favor of the validity, that
of the Court of Appeals against their validity, and if it is
judicial to hear and determine one way, it is likewise judicial
to hear and determine the other. If action by the state tribunals stopped with the decree of the trial court, it might be
said that the plaintiff did iot voluntarily seek that forum.
She was brought in by appropriate process, and compelled to
there litigate the question. But after an adverse decree she
insisted that it was not only erroneous but void, and voluntarily commenced an action in the Supreme Court of the
State to have that claim established. She invoked the jurisdiction of that court. She summoned the city of Hammond
into that forum and there challenged the decree of the Circuit Court, challenged it-for error and also for lack of jurisdiction. The questions both of error and of jurisdiction were
certainly judicial in their nature and questions within the
undoubted cognizance of the Supreme Court. She voluntarily sought its judgment. Can she, after its ,decision, be
heard in any other tribunal to collaterally deny the validity
thereof ? Does' not the principle of res judicata apply in all
its force?
Having litigated a question in one competent
tribunal and been defeated, can she litigate the same question
in another tribunal, acting independently, and having no appellate jurisdiction? The question is not whether the judgment of the Supreme Court would be conclusive as to the
question involved in another action between other parties, but
whether it is not binding between the same parties in that or
any other forum. The principles controlling the doctrine of

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

res judiata have been so often announced, and are so universally recognized, that the citation of authorities is scarcely
necessary. Though the form and causes of action be different,
a decision by a court of competent jurisdiction in respect to
any essential fact or question in the one action is conclusive
between the parties in all subsequent actions. Cromwell v.
Sac County, 94 U. S. 351; Lumber Co. v. Buchtel, 101 U. S.
638; Stout v. Lye, 103 U. S. 66; Nesbit v. Riverside Independent District, 144 U. S. 610; Johnson Co. v. Wharton, 152
U. S. 252; Last Chance Mining Co. v. Tyler Mining Co., 157
U. S. 683.
The matter in
But there is another aspect of this case.
of state
domain
the
within
peculiarly
controversy is one
State
for
the
It
is
U.
S.
78.
104
Pittsburgh,
Kelly
v.
control.
size
of
and
number
the
subdivisions,
to determine its political
These
extent.
territorial
and
their
.its municipal corporations
are matters of a local nature, in which the nation, as a whole,
is not interested, and in which, by the very nature of things,
the determination of the state authorities should be accepted
as authoritative and controlling. We do not mean to hold
that in the creation or change of municipal boundaries there
may not be action taken by the State which involves a trespass upon rights secured by the.Federal Constitution; or that
in proceedings looking to such change no questions can arise
which are'of a Federal nature, and in respect to which the
judgment of the courts of the nation must be controlling. All
that we mean to decide is that the matter of the territorial
boundaries of a municipal corporation is local in its nature,
and, as a rule, to be finally and absolutely determined by the
authorities of the State. The opinion of the Court of Appeals in this case is devoted to questions arising under the
state constitution and statutes; and the amended bill filed
in the Circuit Court rests the jurisdiction of that court, not
upon the existence of any right claimed under the Federal
Constitution, but simply on adverse citizenship.
The construction by the courts of a State of its constitution
and statutes is, as a general rule, binding on the Federal courts.
We may think that the Supreme Court of a State has miscon-

FORSYTH v. HAMMOND.
Opinion of the Court.

strued its constitution or its statutes, but we are not at liberty
to therefore set aside its judgments. That court is the final
arbiter as to such questions. In Claiborne County v. Brooks,
111 U. S. 400, 410, it was said: "It isundoubtedly a question
of local policy with each State, what shall be the extent and
character of the powers which its various political and municipal organizations shall possess; and the settled decisions of its
highest courts on this subject will be regarded as authoritative
by the courts of the United States; for it is a question that
relates to the internal constitution of the body politic of the
See also Burgess v. Seligman, 107 U. S. 20, 33;
State."
Bucher v. 0heshire Railroad, 125 U. S.555; Detroit v. Osborne, 135 U. S.492; South Branch Lumber Co. v. Ott, 142
U. S.622; Kaukauna Co. v. Green Bay Co., 142 U. S. 254;
McElvaine v. Brush, 142 U. S. 155; Stutsman County v.
Wallace, 142 U. S.293, quoting Norton v. Shelby County, 118
U. S. 425, and Gormley v. Clark, 134 U. S. 338; Morley v.
Lake Shore dc. Railroad,146 U. S.162; Bauserman v. Blunt,
147 U. S.647; May v. Tenney, 148 U. S. 60; Baltimore &
Ohio Railroad v. Baugh, 149 U. S.368, 373; Lewis v. Mcnson, 151 U' S. 54 ; Balkamn v. Woodstock fron Co., 154 U. S.
177, quoting Lefidngwell v. Warren, 2 Black, 599, 603.
It may be true that the general rule is that the determination
of the territorial boundaries of a municipal corporation is purely
a legislative function, but there is nothing in the Federal Constitution to prevent the people of a State from giving, if they
see fit, full jurisdiction over such matters to the courts and taking it entirely away from the legislature. The preservation of
legislative control in such matters is not one of the essential
elements of a republican form of government Which, under
section 4 of Article 4 of the Constitution, the United States
are bound to guarantee to every State in this Union. And
whenever the Supreme Court of a State holds that under the
true construction of its constitution and statutes the courts of
that State have jurisdiction over such matters, the Federal
courts can neither deny the correctness of this construction
nor repudiate its binding force as presenting anything in conflict with the Federal Constitution.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

It is conceded that the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Indiana in this controversy could not be reviewed by this
court on writ of error; that the questions involved and decided
by that court are not of a Federal nature or such as to vest
any appellate jurisdiction in this court. But if this court
cannot set aside such judgment on the ground of error of law,
it would seem to follow that no subordinate Federal court has
the power on the same ground to strike it, down. What the
highest court of the United States cannot do directly would
seem to be beyond the reach of a subordinate court in a collateral attack. The case of Burgess v. Seligman, supra, is
largely relied upon in the opinion of the Court of Appeals,
but there are several reasons why that authority does not
justify its action. In the first place the decision of the
Supreme Court of the State was rendered before the filing
of this bill in the Circuit Court of the United States, and not
as in the Burgess case after the judgment in the Circuit Court.
In the second place the decision was upon a question of a local
nature, involving the internal policy of the State, and therefore is such a decision as should be, generally speaking, recognized and followed by the Federal courts. And, thirdly,
it was a final adjudication between the same parties, and
should have been respected as binding and conclusive upon
the principle of res judicata.
For these reasons we think that the decision of the Court
.of Appeals was erroneous. Its decree will be
Reversed, and the case remanded to the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Districtof Indiana with instructions to sustain the demurrer to the bill and dismiss the
suit.

