TEXAS AND PACIFIC RAILWAY v. BARRETT.

617

Opinion of the Court.

TEXAS

AND

PACIFIC RAILWAY
BARRETT.

COMPANY

v.

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 247.

Argued and submitted March 2),1897. -Decided

April 19, 1897.

A railway company is bound to use ordinary care to furnish safe machinery
and appliances for the use of its eimploy6s, and the neglect of its agents
in that regard is its neglect; and if injury happens to one of its employ~s
by reason of the explosion of a boiler which was defective and unfit for
use, and the defect and unfitness were known or by reasonable care
might have been known to the servants of the company whose duty it
was to keep such machinery in repair, their negligence is imputable to the
comptny; but in an action against the company by the injured employ,
the burden of proof is on the plaintiff to show that the exploded boiler
and egine were improper appliances to be used on the railroad, and
that the boiler exploded by reason of the particular defects insisted on
by plaintiff.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
31r. David D. Duncan for plaintiff in error. Mr.John F.
Dillon and Jir. lVinslow F. Pierce were on his brief.
Mr. A. II. Garlandand Mr.-R. C. Garland, for defendant
in error, submitted on their brief.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an action to recover for personal injuries, brought
by Barrett, in the District Court of Tarrant County, Texas,
aoainst tile Texas and Pacific Railway Company, and removed
on the application of the company to the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Northern District of Texas. Plaintiff
obtained a verdict and judgment, and defendant thereupon
carried the case on writ of error to the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, by which the judgment was
affirmed. 30 U. S. App. 196.
Plaintiff's complaint averred that he "is a resident of said
Tarrant County and that defendant is a railway corporation,

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

duly incorporated." The petition for removal was sulficient,
and as the company was created by act of Congress the Circuit Court properly entertained jurisdiction. Texas & Pacific
Railway v. Cody, 166 U. S. 606.
On the trial there was evidence tending to show that Barrett, while in the employment of the company as foreman in
charge of a switch engine, and at work in the company's yard,
was injured by the explosion of another engine, with which he
had nothing, and was not required to have anything, to do, and
which had been placed by the foreman of the round house on
a track in the yard, with steam up, to take out a train; that
the boiler of the locomotive at the time it exploded, and for a
considerable time before that, was, and had been, in a weak
and unsafe state by reason of the condition of the stay bolts,
many of which had been broken before the explosion, and
some of them for a long time before; that ther.e were wellknown methods of testing the condition of stay bolts in a
boiler engine; and that if any of these tests had been properly
applied to this boiler within a reasonable time before the
explosion, the true condition of the stay bolts would have
been discovered.
The Circuit Court instructed the jury, at defendant's request,
"that the master is not the insurer of the safety of its engines
but is required to exercise only ordinary care to keep such
engines in'good repair, and if he has used such ordinary care
he is not liable for any injury resulting to the servant from a
defect therein not discoverable by guch ordinary care" ; "that
the mere fact that an injury is received by a servant in consequence of an explosion, will not entitle him to a recovery, but
he must, besides the fact of-the explosion, show that it resulted
from the failure of the master to exercise ordinary care either
in selecting such engine or in keeping it in reasonably safe
repair"; and "that a railway company is not required to adopt
extraordinary tests for discovering defects in machinery, which
are not approved, practicable and customary ; but that it fulfils its duty in this regard if it adopts such tests as are ordinarily in use by prudently conducted roads engaged in like
business and surrounded by like circumstances."'

TEXAS AND PACIFIC RAILWAY v. BARRETT.

619

Opinion of the Court.

And thereupon further charged that a railway company is
bound to use ordinary care to furnish safe machinery and
appliances for the use of its employs, and the neglect of its
agents in that regard is its neglect ; that it is not bound to
insure the absolute safety thereof, nor to supply the best and
safest and newest of such mechanical appliances, but is bound
to use all reasonable care and prudence in providing machinery
reasonably safe and suitable for use, and in keeping the same
in repair; that " by ordinary care is meant such as a prudent
man would use under the same circumstances; it must be'
measured by the character and risks of such business; and
where such persons, whose duty it is to repair the appliances
of the business, know, or ought to know by the exercise of
reasonable care, of the defects in the machinery, the company is responsible for their neglect." That: "If the jury
believe from the evidence under the foregoing instructions,
that the boiler which exploded and injured the plaintiff was
defective and unfit for use, and that defendant's servants,
whose duty it was to repair. such machinery, knew, or by reasonable care might have known of such defects in said machinery, then such neglect upon the part of its servants is
imputable to the defendant, and if said boiler exploded by
reason of said defects and injured the plaintiff, the defendant
would be responsible for the injuries inflicted upon plaintiff, if
plaintiff in no way, by his own neglect, contributed to his
injuries." But that " the burden of the proof is on the plaintiff throughout this case to show that the boiler and engine
that exploded were improper appliances to be used on its
railroad by defendant ; that by reason of the particular defects
pointed out and insisted on by plaintiff the boiler exploded
and injured plaintiff. The burden is also on plaintiff throughout to show you the extent and character of his sufferings and
the damages he .has suffered by reason thereof.. You must
also be satisfied that plaintiff was ignorant of the defects in
the boiler that caused its explosion, if the evidence convinces
you that such was the case; and that he did not by his negligence contribute to his own injury."
We think that these instructions laid down the applicable

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

rules with sufficient accuracy and in substantial conformity
with the views of this court as expressed in Hough v. Railway
Company, 100 U. S. 213; Northern Pacific Railroad v. Hlerbert, 116 U. S. 642; Washington & Georgetown Railroadv.
McDade, 135 U. S. 554; Union Pacific Railway v. Daniels,

152 U. S. 684, 688; 3Vorthern Pacific Railroad v. Babcock,
154 U. S. 190, and other cases.

Exceptions were preserved to portions of the charge, and to
the refusal of the Circuit Court to give certain instructions
requested by defendant, but, taking the charge as a whole, we
are of opinion that the Circuit Court of Appeals rightly held
that no reversible error was committed. These matters fully
appear in the report of the case inthat court, and we do not
feel called upon to rtstate them here in detail.
Judgment afflrmed.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD COMKPANY v.
SANDERS.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 12.

Argued March 12,IS97.-Decided

April 19, 1897.

Lands were expressly excepted from the grant made in 1864 for the benefit
of the Northern Pacific Railroad, which were .not free frown preiamption
"or other claims or rights" at the time the line of the road was definitely fixed and a plat thereof filed in the office of the Commissioner of
the General Land Office. The general route of the railroad was fixed
February 21, 1872, and its line of defliite location on the 6th of July, 1882.
After the company filed a map of general route, the Commissioner of the
General Land Office, under the directions of the Secretary of the Interior,
April 22, 1872, transmitted a diagram of that route to the register and
receiver of the land office at Helena, Montana, with a letter of instructions directing the withdrawal from sale or location, preimption or
homestead entry, all the surveyed and unsurveyed odd-numbered sections of public lands falling within the limits of forty miles as designated on that map. The lands in dispute are within the exterior lines
of'both the general and definite routes of the railroad. Prior to such
definite location certain persons, qualified to purchase mineral lands
under the laws of the United States, entered upon the possession of

