LONG ISLAND WATER SUPPLY CO. v. BROOKLYN.

6S5

Syllabus.

as often as and whenever the common council may think
proper; the use of the street may be subjected to one condition to-day and to another and additional one to-morrow,
provided the power is exercised in good faith and the condition imposed is appropriate as a reasonable regulation, and
is not imposed arbitrarily or capriciously. New Orleans Gas
Co. v. Louisiana Light Co., 115 U. S. 650, 672; N. Y. &
X. E. Railroad v. Bristol, 151 U. S. 556, 567.
The effect of the third section of the latter ordinance was to
leave with the railroad company the power to lay down and
maintain and use one track instead of double tracks on Lexington street between the streets named. It is true the city
assumed to attach a condition to the exercise of this right,
which was that the railroad company should within twenty
days remove the double tracks and replace the pavement. In
view of all the facts, we should incline to regard this as in the
nature of a penalty to secure obedience of the company to the
regulation, and in any event, in the light of the conduct of
the parties in relation to the litigation in.the state court, we
think the railroad company has not lost the right to maintain
one track in the street in question as it now exists, without
the adoption of any further ordinance on the subject.
On the ground which we have stated, we think the decree
of the Circuit Court wrong, and for that reason it must be
Reversed, and the cause remanded for further proceedings
not inconsistent with this opinion.

LONG ISLAND

WATER SUPPLY
BROOKLYN.

COMPANY v.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 21.

Argued March 17, 18, 1897. - Decided April 16, 1897.

In cases brought here from state courts their decisions are final in matters
of procedure, and on alleged conflicts between the statutes of the State
and its constitution.

OCTOBER TERMT, 1896.
Statement of the Case,
An existing system of water' supply in a municipality which is the property of private individuals and is operated under a contract with the
municipal corporation for furnishing it with a portion of its needed
supply of water under rates fixed by the contract, is private property
which may be acquired by the public, in the exercise of the power of
eminent domain, on the payment of a just compensation, including coMpensation for the termination of the contract.
In condemnation proceedings for that purpose, the assessment of damages
may be made by commissioners where the statutes so provide, and there
is no denial of due process of law in making their findings final as to the
facts, leaving open to the courts the inquiry whether there was any erroneous basis adopted by the commissioners in their appraisal, or other
errors in their proceedings.
There was nothing in the statute under which the Long Island Water
Supply -Company was organized, nor in its contract with the town of
New Lots for the supply of water, nor in the act of annexation to
Brooklyn, which gave to that ecrmpany rights exclusive and beyond the
reach of such legislative action.
UNDER authority of chap. 737 of the laws of New York
for 1873, (Laws N. Y. 1873, p. 1100), as amended in 1881
(Laws N. Y. 1881, chap. 321, p. 443),, the plaintiff in error was
organized as a water company. On September 15, 1881, it
entered into a contract with the town of New Lots, by which
it agreed to lay water pipes and mains in the streets of New
Lots, and supply the town with water. The town, on the
other hand, agreed to pay for hydrants to be furnished and
supplied, as provided in the contract, at a specified rate per
hydrant, the number of hydrants to be not less than 200.
The term of the contract was twenty-five years. This contract was modified on July 2, 1885, but the modification contains nothing material to this controversy.
In 1886, by chap. 335 (Laws N. Y. 1886, p. 540), the town
of New Lots was annexed to and merged in the city of Brooklyn, to be known thereafter as the 26th ward of said city.
The fourth section of this act provided, among other things,
that "the amount annually payable by said town for water
supplied to it under existing contracts between it and the
Long Island Water Supply Company, shall, after this act
takes effect, during the terms of said contract, or until said
city shall purchase or acquire the property of said water company, as in the next section provided, be levied and collected

LONG ISLAND WATER SUPPLY CO. v. BROOKLYN. 6S7
Statement of the Case.

from the property situated and taxable within the territory
hereby annexed, and such amount shall be paid to the said
water company by said city as it falls due from time to time
under said contracts, and the said city of Brooklyn shall not
distribute or furnish water for consumption or use within said
territory, or lay any pipes or mains for the distribution or supply of water within said territory, until the expiration of the
charter of said company or until the said city shall purchase
or acquire the property of said company as in the next section
provided."
By section 5 the city was given power to purchase or condemn the property of the company within two years, but did
neither. In 1892 the legislature passed another act (Laws
1892, chap. 481, p. 960), authorizing the city of Brooklyn to
condemn the property of the company, the first section of
which is as follows:
"SECTION 1. The public interest requires the acquisition, by
the city of Brooklyn, for the public use of the reservoir, wells,
machinery, pipes, franchises and all other property of the
Long Island Water Supply Company, and the said city of
Brooklyn is hereby authorized to acquire the same for such
use by condemnation, free of all liens and incumbrances whatsoever, provided that the proceedings herein, hereinafter and
hereby authorized, shall be commenced within one year after
the passage of this act."
Subsequent sections prescribed the procedure. Proceedings
were had under this act. The commissioners appointed, as
provided therein, valued the property of the company at
$570,000, of which $370,000 was named as the value of the
tangible property, and $200,000 that of the franchises, contracts and all other rights and property of whatsoever nature
or kind of the company, including therein the contract be.
tween the town of New Lots and the company. The special
term of the Supreme Court, on June 29, 1893, made an order
vacating and setting aside this report and appointing new
commissioners. The city of Brooklyn appealed to the general
term of that court, which, on December 1, 1893, reversed the
order of the special term and confirmed the report of the com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.,

missioners. The company then took an appeal to the Court
of Appeals. That court affirmed the decision of the general
term, 143 N. Y. 596, and remitted the record to the Supreme
Court, which court, on December 4, 1894, entered final judgment in favor of the city of Brooklyn, and thereupon this writ
of error was sued out.
Mr. John F. Dillon and Mr. Benjamin F. Tracy for plaintiff in error. Mr.Iarry Itubbard and Mr. John M. Dillon
were on their brief.
lfr. George G. Reynolds and _Mr. Albert G. McDonald for
defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
So far as respects any mere matter of procedure, or of
conflict between the statute authorizing the condemnation
or the proceedings had thereunder and the constitution of
the State, the decision of the Court of Appeals is conclusive.
West River Bridge Company v. Dix, 6 How. 507; Bucher v.
Ch/eshire Railroad,125 U. S.555; Adams Express C(ompany
v. Ohio, 165 U. S. 194. Our inquiry must be directed to the
question whether any rights of the water supply company
secured by the Constitution of the United States have been
violated.
The contention of plaintiff in error is that the
proceedings had under the statute which resulted in the
judgment of condemnation violate section 10, article 1, of
the Constitution of the United States, which forbids any
State to pass a lawv impairing the obligation of contracts,
and were not "due process of law," as required by the
Fourteenth Amendment.
With reference to the first part of this contention it is said
that in 1881 the town of New Lots made a contract with the
water supply company by which for each and every year durino the term of twenty-five years it covenanted to pay to the
company so much per hydrant for hydrants furnished and supplied by it; that the act of annexation continued the burden

LONG ISLAND WATER SUPPLY CO. v. BROOKLYN.

689

Opinion of the Court.

of this obligation upon the territory within the limits of the
town, although thereafter the town as a separate municipality ceased to exist, and the territory became simply a ward
of the city of Brooklyn; that the condemnation proceedings
destroyed this contract and released the territory from any
obligation to pay the stipulated hydrant rental; that a State
or municipality cannot do indirectly what it cannot do directly; that as the municipality could not by any direct act
release itself from any of the obligations of its contract, it
could not accomplish the same result by proceedings in condemnation. We cannot yield our assent to this contention.
All private property is held subject to the demands of a public
use. The constitutional guarantee of just compensation is not
a limitation of the power to take, but only a condition of its
exercise. Whenever public uses require, the government may
appropriate any private property on the payment of just compensation. That the supply of water to a city is a public purpose cannot be doubted, and hence the condemnation of a
water supply system must be recognized as within the unquestioned limits of the power of eminent domain. It matters not
to whom the water supply system belongs, individual or corporation, or what franchises are connected with it- all may
be taken for public uses upon payment of just compensation.
It is not disputed by counsel that, were there no contract
between the company and the town, the water works might
be taken by condemnation. And so the contention is practically that the existence of the contract withdraws the property, during the life of the contract, from the scope of the
power of eminent domain, because taking the tangible property will prevent the company from supplying water, and,
therefore, operate to relieve the town from the payment of
hydrant rentals. In other words, the prohibition against a
law impairing the obligation of contracts stays the power of
eminent domain in respect to property which otherwise could,
be taken by it. Such a decision would be far reaching in its
effects. There is probably no water company in the land
which has not some subsisting contract with a municipality
which it supplies, and within which its works are located,
VOL. CLxVI-44

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

and a ruling that all those properties are beyond the reach
of the power of eminent domain during the existence of those
contracts is one which, to say the least, would require careful
consideration before receiving judicial sanction. The fact
that this particular contract is for the payment of money
for hydrant rental is not vital. Every contract is equally
within the protecting reach of the prohibitory clause of the
Constitution. The charter of a corporation is a contract, and
its obligations cannot be impaired. So it would seem to follow, if plaintiff in error's contentfon is sound, that the franchises of a corporation 'could not be taken by condemnation,
because thereby the contract created by the charter is impaired. The privileges granted to the corporation are taken
away, and the obligation of the corporation to perform is
also destroyed.
The vice of this argument is twofold. First, it ignores the
fact that the contract is a mere incident to the tangible property ; that it is the latter which, being fitted for public uses, is
condemned. And while the company, by being deprived of
its tangible property, is unable to perform its part of the
contract, and therefore can make no demands upon the town
for performance on its part, it still is true that the contract is
not the thing which is sought to be condemned, and its impairment, if impairment there be, is a mere consequence of
the appropriation of the tangible property. Second, a contract is property, and, like any other property, may be taken
under condemnation proceedings for public use. New Orleans
Gas Co. v. Louisiana Light Co., 115 U. S. 650, 673. Its condemnation is of course subject to the rule of just compensation,
and that is all that is implied in the decisions such as flall v.
Wisconsin, 103 U. S. 5, cited by counsel. In that case it
appeared that Hall had a contract with the State for services
entered into in pursuance of a statute, that he performed the
services, but that before finishing his work the legislature
repealed the statute authorizing the contract. It was held
that he was nevertheless entitled to his stipulated compensation. The act of the legislature in the repeal was not one
providing for condemnation, and in so far as it partook of the

LONG ISLAND WATER SUPPLY CO. v. BROOKLYN. 691
Opinion of the Court.

nature of a condemnation it ignored the obligation of just
compensation, and was therefore void; but it was not held
that, if just compensation had been provided and a public use
required, the contract might not have been condemned.
The true view is that the condemnation proceedings do not
impair the contract, do not break its obligations, but appropriate it, as they do the tangible property of the company, to
public uses. The statute under which these proceedings were
had declares the necessity of the acquisition "for the public
use of the reservoir as well as machinery, pipes,' franchises
and all other property" of the company, and the application
for the appointment of commissioners not only described the
tangible property but also added "all franchises, contracts,
more particularly a certain contract dated the 15th day of
September, 1881, between the town of New Lots and the said
Long Island Water Supply Company, and referred to in chap.
335, Laws of 1886, and all other rights and property of whatsoever nature or kind as the same may so appear." The commissioners, after a hearing, valued first the tangible property
-it$370,000 and the franchises, contracts and all other rights
and property, including this particular contract, at $200,000.
In other words, the condemnation proceedings did not repudiate the contract but appropriated it and fixed its value.
The case of West.River Bridge 0o. v. Dix, 6 How. 507, is in
point. The bridge company had a charter from the State of
Vermont creating it a corporation and investing it with the
cxclusiva privilege of erecting a bridge over West River
within four miles of its mouth 'and with the right of taking
tolls for passing the same. Under that authority it had
erected its bridge and was in the enjoyment of the franchise.
During the life of the charter, and under authority of an
act of the legislature, condemnation proceedings were taken
for the purpose of condemning the bridge and extinguishing
the charter; converting the former into a free public highway. These proceedings culminated in an award of compensation and a judgment of condemnation. The Supreme
Court of the State having sustained the proceedings they
were brought to this court on error, and there as here the

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

contention was that the proceedings were in violation of the
tenth section of the first article of the Constitution. This
contention was overruled, and in the course of the opinion it
was observed:
"No State, it is declared, shall pass a law impairing the
obligation of contracts; yet, with this concession constantly
yielded, it cannot be justly disputed, that in every political
sovereign community there inheres necessarily the right and
the duty of guarding its own existence, and of protecting and
promoting the interests and welfare of the community at large.
This power and this duty are to be exerted not only in the
highest acts of sovereignty, and in the external relations of
governments; they reach and comprehend likewise the interior
polity and relations of social life, which should be regulated
with reference to the advantage of the whole society. This
power, denominated the eminent domain of the State, is, as its
name imports, paramount to all private rights vested under
the government, and these last are, by necessary implication,
held in subordination to this power, and must yield in every
instance to its proper exercise. . . . Now it is undeniable,
that the investment of property in the citizen by the government, whether made for a pecuniary consideration or founded
on conditions of civil or political duty, is a contract between
the State, or the government acting as its agent, and the
grantee ; and both the parties thereto are bound in good faith
to fulfil it. But into all contracts, whether made between
States and individuals, or between individuals only, there
enter conditions which arise not out of the literal terms of the
contract itself; they are superinduced by the preexisting and
higher authority of the laws of nature, of nations or of the
community to which the parties belong; they are always presuined, and must be presumed, to be known and recognized by
all, are binding upon all, and need never, therefore, be carried
into express stipolation, for this could add nothing to their
force. Every contract is made in subordination to them, and
must yield to their control, as conditions inherent and paramount, wherever a necessity for their execution shall occur.
Such a condition is the right of eminent domain. This right

LONG ISLAND WATER SUPPLY CO. v. BROOKLYN.

693

Opinion of the Court.

does not operate to impair the contract affected by it, but
recognizes its obligation in the fullest extent, claiming only
the fulfilment of an essential and inseparable condition.
A distinction has been attempted, in argument, between the power of a government to appropriate for public
uses property which is corporeal, or may be said to be in being,
and the like power in the government to resume or extinguish
a franchise. The distinction, thus attempted, we regard as a
refinement which has no foundation in reason, and one that,
in truth, avoids the true legal or constitutional question in
these causes; namely, that of the right in private persons, in
the use or enjoyment of their private property, to control and
actually to prohibit the power and duty of the government to
advance and protect the general good. We are aware of
nothing peculiar to a franchise which can class it higher, or
render it more sacred, than other property. A franchise is
property and nothing more; it is incorporeal property, and is
so defined by Justice Blackstone, when treating, in his second
volume, c. 3, p. 20, of the Rights of Things." See also The
Richmond &c. Railroad Company v. The Louisa Railroad
C(ompany, 13 How. 71, 83; Boston & Lowell Railroad v.Salemn
& Lowell Railroad,2 Gray, 1, 35, 36.
The views thus expressed have never been overruled, and we
think are controlling of this case. Counsel seek to distinguish
that case from this in that here, as they say, there is an'executory contract for 25 years, whereas in that case there was
only incorporeal property, the result of an executed grant;
here the use of the water works property is not changed,
whereas there the bridge was converted from a toll into a free
bridge, and they quote some remarks made by Mr. Justice
McLean, in a concurring opinion in respect to this matter,
p. 537, as follows:
"No State could resume a charter, under the power of appropriation, and carry on the functions of the corporation. A
bank charter could not be thus taken, and the business of the
bank continued for public purposes. Nor could this bridge
have been taken by the State, and kept up by it, as a toll
bridge. This could not be called an appropriation of private

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

property to public purposes. There would be no change in
the use, except the application of the profits, and this would
not bring the act within the power. The power must not
only be exercised bona fide by a State, but the property, not
its product, must be applied to public use. . . . The use
of this bridge, it is contended, is the same as before the act of
appropriation. The public use the bridge now as before the
act of appropriation. But it was a toll bridge, and by the act
it is made free. The use, therefore, is not the same. The tax
assessed on the citizens of the town, to keep up and pay for
the bridge, may be impolitic or unjust; but that is not a
matter for the consideration of this court."
We do not think the differences between tho cases
such as
to affect the right of condemnation. A charter is not simply
an executed grant but a continuing -contract. There is a
duty of performance by the recipients of the grant which
continues during the life of the charter. Neither can the
power of the State to condemn a water works system depend
upon the question whether it makes the supply of water absolutely free to all individuals who desire to use it. The State,
which, in the first place, has the power to construct a water
supply system and charge individuals for the use of the water,
may condemn a system already constructed, and continue to
make such charge. This is not turning property from one
private corporation to another, but taking property from a
private corporation and vesting the title in some municipal
corporation for the public use. It is not essential to a public
use that it be absolutely free and without any charge to any
one. The State may build a railroad and charge tolls for
passengers and freight. It is, nevertheless, a public function
which it is exercising, and the property is devoted to public
uses. And so wherever there is cost in continuing a public
work the State has a right to demand compensation for any
individual use and personal benefit therefrom.
Neither can it be said that there was not "due process of
law" in these condemnation proceedings. It is not essential
that the assessment of damages be made by a jury. Such
award may be made by commissioners, at least where there is

LONG ISLAND WATER SUPPLY CO. v. BROOKLYN.

695

Opinion of the Court.

provision for a review of their proceedings in the courts.
Central Branch Union Pacific Railroad v. Atchison, Topeka
& Santa F-,Railroad, 28 Kansas, 453, 463; Cooley on Const.
Lim. 563. And sections 9 and 10 of the act of 1892, under
which these proceedings were had, require that the commissioners make and file a report of their proceedings and determination in the Supreme Court of the county of Kings, and
that application must be made to that court for a confirmation
of the report; that notice of such application must be given;
and that "upon such application the court may confirm the
report, or may set it aside for irregularity, or for error of law
in the proceedings before the commissioners, or upon the
ground that the award, in part or in whole, is excessive, or is
insufficient;" and appeal was allowed from the decision of
that court to a higher. We do not question the proposition
that form is not the only thing essential to due process. We
said in the recent case of Chicago, _Burlington, & Quincy
Railroad v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 226, " The mere form of the
proceeding instituted against the owner, even if he be admitted
to defend, cannot convert the process used into due process of
law, if the necessary result be to deprive him of his property
without compensation."
It may be true, as contended, that, as construed by the
Court of Appeals, the determination of the commissioners is
conclusive as to the mere value of the property, but there is
no denial of due process in making the findings of fact by the
triers of fact, whether commissioners or a jury, final as to
such facts, and leaving open to the courts simply the inquiry
as to whether there was any erroneous basis adopted by the
triers in their appraisal, or other errors in their proceedings.
The error charged against the commissioners in respect to
their basis of valuation is that they failed to regard the company as possessed of exclusive rights. It is said by counsel in
their brief that the company had, by virtue of its contract
and the act of annexation, "two vested rights as against the
city of Brooklyn: 1st. A vested right resting in contract to
continue to supply water under and pursuant to the said contracts with the town of New Lots 'during the term of said

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

contracts' ; that is, for the unexpired period of said contracts about fourteen years. 2d. A further vested right resting in
contract and valid legislative enactment to enjoy its franchises
until the expiration of its charter, protected from any rivalry
on the part of the city of Brooklyn."
The view taken by the majority of the commissioners is thus
stated in their report:
"To recapitulate what has just been said, we have valued
the franchise upon the assumptions (1) that at present the
water company alone has the right publicly to purvey water
in the Twenty-sixth ward; (2) that the exclusiveness now incident to its right may at any time be taken from it by the
legislature, or by local authorities acting under legislation;
but (3) that neither the legislature nor local authorities would,
in determining whether to take from the company the exclusiveness of its right, fail to have such due regard as is
demanded by ample and fair public policy, to the past investment, risks and services of the company and to the reasonably
just expectations which those who have invested money in its
work had in mind when so investino."
The Court of Appeals held that neither the statute under
which the company was organized, nor the contract, nor the
act of annexation, gave to the company rights exclusive and
beyond the reach of legislative action. These conclusions of
the Court of Appeals are vigorously challenged in the argument, but we are of opinion that they are correct. The statute simply provided for the organization of water companies.
The contract in terms contained no words of exclusion. It
gave to the company the privilege of laying its mains in the
streets of the town, and contained a covenant on the part of
the town to pay certain hydrant rentals. But grants from the
public are strictly construed in favor of the public, and grants
of a privilege are not ordinarily to be taken as grants of an
exclusive privilege.
Charles River Bridge Co. v. Warren
Bridge, 11 Pet. 420 ; Turnpike Co. v. State, 3 Wall. 210 ; Stein
v. Bienville Water Supply (o., 141 U. S. 67; Iamilton Gaslight & Coke Co. v. 11am ilton, 146 U. S. 258; Syracuse Water
Co. v. Syracuse, 116 N. Y. 167. Nor is thereanything in the act

LONG ISLAND WATER SUPPLY CO. v. BROOKLYN.

697

Opinion of the Court,

of annexation which made a contract or created a right beyond
the power of the legislature to change. It gave the city the
right to purchase or condemn at any time within two years,
but this specification of time did not operate to prevent the
legislature from enlarging the time, or from granting at any
subsequent period during the life of the contract a further
right of purchase or condemnation. No consent was asked of
the town company in the act of annexation; it entered into
no new contract; nothing was done to enlarge the rights
which it had against the public. The act was simply one of
legislative discretion in respect to municipal organization, and,
like any other such act, subject to future modification by the
legislature.
Neither can the act of 1892 be adjudged in conflict with
the Federal Constitution because it fails expressly and in detail to prescribe the uses to which the property shall be put
by the city of Brooklyn after the condemnation. The property condemned was not vacant land susceptible to a multitude of uses. The character of its use had already been
determined by the action of the company. It was already
used for public purposes, and the condemnation simply took
the title away from the private corporation and vested it in
the municipality. And the statute cannot be adjudged unconstitutional because it did not in terms declare that the city
of Brooklyn should continue the same use or appropriate the
property to some other equally public purpose.
These are the vital questions in the case. We see no error
in the judgment, and it is, therefore,
Ajfirmed.
MR.JUSTICE PECKHAM took no part in the decision of this
case.

