OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

matter of record, or where the application is made by a
stranger, the granting or refusal of the writ is discretionary.
Nor is the granting of the writ obligatory where the case has
gone to sentence, and the want of jurisdiction does not appear
upon the face of the proceedings. Smith v. Whitney, 116 U. S.
167, 173; In re Cooper, 143 U. S. 472, 495."
Tested by these rules, we are clear that a proper case is not
made for awarding the writ of prohibition.
Writ denied.

ALLEN v. GEORGIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF GEORGIA.
No. 64 1

Submitted January 19, 1897. -Decided

March 15, 1897.

After a person had been convicted in a state court of murder, he sued out a
writ of error from the Supreme Court of the State. On the day assigned
for its hearing it appeared from affidavits that the accused had escaped
from jail, and was at that time a fugitive from justice. The court there-

upon ordered thewrit of error dismissed, unless he should within sixty
days surrender himself or be recaptured, and when that time passed without either happening, the writ was dismissed.
He was afterwards
recaptured, and resentenced to death, whereupon he sued out this writ
of error, assigning as error that the dismissal of his writ of error by
the Supreme Court was a denial of due process of law. Held, that the
dismissal of the writ of error by the Supreme Court of the State was
justified by the abandonment of his case by the plaintiff in the writ.
THIS was a writ of error to review an order of the Supreme
Court of the State of Georgia dismissing a writ of error from
that court which had been sued out to. reverse the conviction
of the plaintiff in error for the murder of one Charles Carr.
After defendant had been convicted and sentenced to death
by the Superior Court of Bibb County, he made a motion for
a new trial which was overruled, whereupon he sued out a
writ of error from the Supreme Court of the State, which was
assigned for hearing upon the 4th day of March, 1895. The
case having been called upon that day, it was made to appear
to the court by affidavits that Allen, after his conviction and

ALLEN v., GEORGIA.
Opinion of the Court.

sentence, had escaped from jail, and was at that time a fugitive from justice. Upon this showing, the court ordered that
the writ of error be dismissed, unless he should within sixty
days surrender himself to custody, or should be recaptured
within that time, so as to be subject to the jurisdiction of the
court, and should furnish evidence thereof by filing the same
in the clerk's office.
On May 6- which was more than sixty days thereafter the court made a further order, in which, after stating that
the plaintiff in error had not surrendered himself to custody,
and furnished evidence thereof as required, and that he had
not been rearrested since his escape from jail, it was ordered
that the writ of error be finally dismissed.
This judgment was, on July 13, 1895, made the judgment
of the. Superior Court of Bibb County. Afterwards Allen,
having been recaptured, was, on the 25th of April, 1896,
resentenced to death by the Superior Court, and thereupon
made application to one of the justices of this court for a writ
of error, which was duly granted -plaintiff assigning as error
that the dismissing of his writ of error by the Supreme Court
of the State of Georgia was a denial of due process of law.
Mr. W. C. Glenn and Mr. Daniel W. Rountree for plaintiff in error.
Mr. J. M. Terrell and Mr. John R. Cooper for defendant
in error.
MR. JusTIcE BRowN delivered the opinion of the

court.

The plaintiff in error claims that the order of the Supreme
Court of the State of Georgia, dismissing his writ of error to
the Superior Court of Bibb County, because he had escaped
from jail and was a fugitive from justice, was a denial of due
process of law within the meaning of the Federal Constitution.
It appeared from the record that, after the writ of error had
been finally dismissed on May 6, 1895, Allen was subsequently
recaptured and, upon April 25, 1896, was resentenced to death
by the court in which he had been convicted. While the

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

precise question here involved has never before been presented
to this court, we have repeatedly held that we would not hear
and determine moot cases, or cases in which there was not at
the time a bona fide controversy pending. In a similar case
from the Supreme Court of Nebraska, Bonachan v. Nebraska,
125 U. S. 692, wherein it appeared that, pending the writ of
error from this court, the plaintiff in error had escaped, and
was no longer within the control of the court below, it was
ordered that the submission of the cause be set aside, and
unless the plaintiff were brought within the jurisdiction of
the court below on or before the last day of the term, the
cause should be thereafter left off the docket until directions
to the contrary. A like order under similar circumstances
was made in Smith v. United States, 94 U. S. 97.
In civil cases it has. been the universal practice to dismiss
the case whenever it became apparent that there was no real
dispute remaining between the plaintiff and the defendant,
or that the case had been settled or otherwise disposed of by
agreemeldt of the parties, and there was no actual controversy
pending. Lord v. Veazie, 8 How. 251; Gaines v. Hennen, 24
How. 553, 628; Cleveland v. Ciamberlain, 1 Black, 419;
Wood-Paper Co. v. Hflt, 8 Wall. 333; Dakota County v.
Glidden, 113 U. S. 222; Little v. Bowers, 134 U. S. 547;
Californiav. San Pablo &c. Railroad, 149 U. S.308.
We know at present of no reason why the same course may
not be taken in criminal cases if the laws of the State or the
practice of its courts authorize it. To justify any interference
upon our part, it is necessary to show that the course pursued
has deprived, or will deprive, the plaintiff in error of his life,
liberty or property without due process of law. Without
attempting to define exactly in what due process of law consists, it is sufficient to say that, if the Supreme Court of a
State has acted in consonance with the constitutional laws of
a State and its own procedure, it could only be in very exceptional circumstances that this court would feel justified in
saying that there had been a failure of due legal process. We
might ourselves have pursued a different course in this case,
but lhat is not the test. The plaintiff in error must have been

ALLEN v. GEORGIA.
Opinion of the Court.

deprived of one of those fundamental rights, the observance
of which is indispensable to the liberty of the citizen, to justify
our interference.
'We cannot say that the dismissal of a writ of error is not
justified by the abandonment of his case by the plaintiff in
the writ. By escaping from legal custody he has, by the laws
of most, if not all, of the States, committed a distinct criminal
offence; and it seems but a light punishment for such offence
to hold that he has thereby abandoned his right to prosecute
a writ of error, sued out to review his conviction. Otherwise
he is put in a position of saying to the court: "Sustain my
writ and I Will surrender myself, and take my chances upon
a second trial; deny me a new trial and I will leave the State,
or forever remain in hiding." We consider this as practically
a declaration of the terms upon which he is willing to surrender, and a contempt of its authority, to which no court is
bound to submit. It is much more becoming to its dignity
that the court should prescribe the conditions upon which an
escaped convict should be permitted to appear and prosecute
his writ, than that the latter should dictate the terms upon
which he will consent to surrender himself to its custody.
The course pursued in this case is approved by the ruling of
many courts in different States, and notably in the case of
Commonwealth v. Andrews, 97 Mass. 543, where the defendant escaped during the pendency of his case in the Supreme
Court. It was held that, not being present in person, he
could not be heard by attorney; that if a new trial were
ordered, he was not there to answer further, and that if the
exceptions were overruled, a sentence could not be pronounced
or executed upon him, p. 544. "So far as the defendant
had any right to be heard under the constitution, he must be
deemed to have waived it by escaping from custody, and the
failing to appear and prosecute his exceptions in person,
according to the order of court under which he was committed." In Sherman v. Commonwealth, 14 Gratt. 677, upon
a similar state of facts, the court ordered that the writ, of
error be dismissed, unless the defendant should appear before
a certain day. This judgment was afterwards approved in

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

Leftwich v. Commonwealth, 20 Gratt. 716. In the case of
Genet, 59 N. Y. 80, the defendant escaped, pending the settlement of a bill of exceptions, and the court declining to proceed
with the settlement of the proposed bill, the case Was carried
before the Court of Appeals, and the action of the Court of
Oyer and Terminer affirmed. See also People v. Redinger,
55 California, 290; Wilson v. Commonwealth, 10 Bush, 526;
Gresham v. State, 1 Texas App. 458; McGowan v. People,
104 Illinois, 100; Warwick v. State, 73 Alabama, 486; State
v. Connters, 20 W. Va. 1 ; State v. Wriyht, 32 La. Ann. 1017;
Wloodson v. State, 19 Florida, 549; Sargentv. State, 96 Indiana,
63; M]oore v. State, 44 Texas, 595; State v. Craighead,44 La.
Ann. 968; Zardenta v. State, 23 S. W. Rep. 684; Gatlif v.
State, 28 S. W. Rep. 466.
The course pursued in this case has also received the approval of the Supreme Court of the State of Georgia in
several prior cases. Madden v. Thle State, 70 Georgia, 383;
Osborn v. The State, 70 Georgia, 731; Gentry v. The State, 91
Georgia, 669.
The constitution of the State of Georgia, Art. 6, Sec. 2,
Par. 6, requires the Supreme Court to dispose of every case
at the first term, unless prevented by providential causes; and,
by section 4271 of the Code, this enactment is repeated, with
a further provision that no continuance shall be allowed
except for providential cause. Indeed, it is admitted that
it would be useless to ask the Supreme Court of the State of
Georgia to reinstate this case, or to grant to the plaintiff
in error any relief whatever, because under the rules and
decisions of that court, and under the statutes of the State
of Georgia, as construed by that court, such relief would be
denied. Whether the court should give the plaintiff sixty
days, or until the last day of the term, to appear and surrender himself to custody, was a matter for the court to
determine, and even if there were error in that particular,
it would not constitute a denial of due process of law.
The order of the Supreme Court dismissing the writ of error
must, therefore, be
Afirmed.

