OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

every litigant in a common law action in the courts of the
Territory of Utah the right to a trial by jury, and nullified
any act of its legislature which attempted to take from him
anything which is of the substance of that right. Now unanimity was one of the peculiar and essential features of trial
by jury at the common law. No authorities are needed to
sustain this proposition. Whatever may be true as to legislation which changes any mere details of a jury trial, it is clear
that a statute which destroys this substantial and essential
feature thereof is one abridging the right. It follows, therefore, that the court erred in receiving a verdict returned by
only nine jurors, the others not concurring.
In order to guard against any misapprehension it may be
proper to say that the power of a State to change the rule in
respect to unanimity of juries is not before us for consideration. Walker v. Sauvinet, 92 U. S. 90; Jlurtado v. California,
110 U. S.516.
The judgment will be
Reversed, and as the questions involved in the case are not
of a f deral nature,and diverse (itizenship is not alleged,
the case must be remanded to the Supreme Court of the
Stateforfurther proceedings.

UNITED

STATES v. AMERICAN
PANY.

TOBACCO

COM-

APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 742. Submitted March 29, 1897. -Decided

April 12, 1897.

The tobacco company purchased from an internal revenue officer of the
United States revenue stamps to the amount of $4100.10, to be put upon
April 2, 1893, its factory in New York
its tobacco as manufactured.
and all the contents were destroyed by fire. Among the contents were
the stamps so purchased. Of these, stamps to the value of $1356.63 had
not been used, and stamps to the value of $2743.47 had been put unon
packages of tobacco which were still in the factory, unsold. The prop-

UNITED STATES v. AMERICAN TOBACCO CO.

469

Statement of the Case.
erty was insured. In settling with the insurers the latter paid the tobacco company the value of the destroyed stamps, and it was understood
that the insurers were entitled to whatever might be received or recovered from the Government under the provisions of the statute amending
the laws relating to internal revenue. Act of March 1, 1879, c. 125. The
company under the provisions of that act applied to the Treasury Department for the return of the destroyed stamps. The rules of the department required the applicant for such repayment to make oath that he
had not theretofore presented a claim for the refunding of the amount
asked for, and that its amount or any part thereof had not been received
by him. Instead thereof the company filed an oath that the amount had
not been claimed of the Government, and that no portion of it had been
received from the Government. The department having refused payment, the company thereupon brought this action in the Court of Claims.
Held,
(1) That the action was properly brought in the name of the insured for
the use of the insurers;
(2) That payment by the insurer to the company did not bar the right
of the latter to recover from the United States;
(3) That by recovering from the United States the company would become the trustee of the insurers, who were its equitable assignees;
(4) That upon the facts found by the Court of Claims the action could
be maintained, as the payment by the insurers constituted no bar;
(5) That there was a substantial compliance with the Treasury regulation
concerning the oath when the.oath' was filed on the part of the
company of the fact of the destruction, and that no claim for
refunding had been presented to the Governmnt, and no portion
of the claim had been paid by it;
(6) That the company had an insurable interest in the stamps destroyed;
(7) That it was too late to set up for the first time in this court that the
Government had the election to reimburse the claimant by giving
stamps instead of by payment in cash.

THIs action was brought in the Court of Claims for the purpose of recovering the value of certain internal revenue stamps,
alleged to have been destroyed by fire before they had been
used. The action is founded upon the provisions of section
3426 of the United States Revised Statutes, as amended by
chapter 125 of the laws of 1879, 20 Stat. 327, 349, the first
paragraph of section 17 of which reads as follows:
"The Commissioner of Internal Revenue may, upon receipt of satisfactory evidence of the facts, make allowance
for or redeem such of the stamps issued under, the provisions
of this title, or of any internal revenue act, as may have been

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

spoiled, destroyed or rendered useless or unfit for the purpose
intended, or for which the owner may have no use, or which,
through mistake, may have been improperly or unnecessarily
used, or where the rates or duties represented thereby have
been excessive in amount, paid in error, or in any manner
wrongfully collected; and such allowance or redemption shall
be made either by giving other stamps in lieu of the stamps so
allowed for or redeemed, or by refunding the amount or value
to the owner thereof, deducting therefrom, in case of repayment, the percentage, if any, allowed to the purchaser thereof;
but no allowance or redemption shall be made in any case
until the stamps so spoiled or rendered useless shall have been
returned to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, or until
satisfactory proof has been made showing the reason why the
same cannot be so returned: Provided, That nothing herein
shall be held as authorizing redemption of, or allowance for,
any of the stamps allowance for which is prohibited by the
provisions of 'An act relative to the redemption of unused
stamps,' approved July twelfth, 1876."
On the 27th of May, 1895, the American Tobacco Company
filed its petition in the Court of Claims in its own name for
the use of certain insurance companies named in the petition,
to recover the value of the stamps destroyed by fire in its factory. The facts as to the loss and destruction of the stamps
were set forth and judgment asked for the value thereof. The
usual general denial of all the allegations of the petition was
filed by the Attorney General on behalf of the United States,
and the case went to trial, and after the evidence had been
submitted the court found the following facts: That the
tobacco company was a manufacturer of tobacco, occupying a building in New York city, which was established
solely as a manufactory, no sales of tobacco being made at
the factory, the shipments therefrom being made in bulk
after the tobacco had been stamped according to law. On
the 2d of April, 1893, the factory and its entire contents were
destroyed by fire. Among those contents were internal revenue stamps of the United States of the face value of $4100.10.
Tlfese stamps had been purchased by the company from the

UNITED STATES v. AMERICAN TOBACCO CO.

471

Statement of the Case.

United States Collector of Internal Revenue for use in the factory. Some of the stamps were unattached to packages of
tobacco, and had never been used, and they were of the face
value of $1356.63; the balance of the stamps of the f~ce'value
of $2743.47 had been attached to packages of tobacco
which had not been sold or offered for sale or removed from
the factory for sale. The tobacco company had purchased
and paid for these stamps, which were totally destroyed, and
there were no unsettled claims against the company on behalf
of the United States.
The court also found the following facts:
"IV. On or about the 1st day of November, 1893, the
claimant filed with the Treasury Department, under the rules
and regulations of said department, a claim for the redemption of said stamps so destroyed, with proof of said loss, which
claim was examined and certified as true and correct by the
United States Internal Revenue Collector for said district, but
without recommendation of payment, for the reason, stated
by the collector, 'that the claimant had been paid by the insurance companies for the value of the stamps'; and on the
14th day of February, 1894, the department rendered its decision upon said application, declining to allow the same, for
the reason 'that satisfactory evidence has been furnished to
this office that you have received reimbursement of the value
of said stamps by the recovery of insurance thereon.'
"V. Thereafter, on or about the 2d day of April, 1895,
the claimant, by its attorneys, filed an amended petition for,
the redemption of said stamps, and asked for a rehearing;
and on April 10, 1895, the Treasury Department rendered a
decision declining to grant a rehearing, and this suit was
brought.
"VI. The contents of said factory were insured to the
American Tobacco Company, by the insurance companies for
whose use this suit is brought, in the full sum of $139,500.
The total loss by fire as adjusted and settled with said claimant was $78,635.47, which sum said companies have paid to
the American Tobacco Company in proportions as the face of
their several policies bears to the whole sum insured. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

face value of said United States internal revenue stamps destroyed as aforesaid, namely, $4100.10, was a part of the sum
so paid by said insurance companies.
"VII. In the adjustment of the losses and the payment
thereof it was understood between the claimant and the insurance companies that the insurance companies were entitled
to have and should receive, in the proportions their several
policies bore to the entire amount insured, the amount' of the
redemption money for the destroyed stamps to be recovered
upon the application aforesaid or in this suit.
"VIII. This suit was brought by the claimant, for the use
of said insurance companies in the proportions aforesaid, to
recover the value of said stamps so destroyed.
"IX. By an existing regulation of the Commissioner of
Internal Revenue, made June 12, 1873, by authority of the
act of June 30, 1864, section 11, afterwards reenacted as
Revised Statutes, section 3426, all claims arising under that
section were required to be made upon a certain printed form,
called ' Form 38,' and ever since some time in 1875, and probably earlier, all claimants under the said section have been
required to make oath, upon Form 38, that they have 'not
heretofore presented any claim for the refunding of the abovementioned amount or any part thereof,' and 'that the value
or reimbursement of the value of said stamps, or any portion
thereof, has not heretofore been received by claimant, directly
or indirectly.'
"X. In presenting the claim as stated in Finding IV, the
claimant's general manager did not make the oath referred to
in Finding IX in the form required by the Commissioner of
Internal Revenue, but, instead of taking the required oath, he
made oath that the clairpant had 'not heretofore presented
any claim to the Government for the refunding of the abovementioned amount, or any part thereof,' and 'that the value
or reimbursement of the value of said stamps, or any portion
thereof, has not heretofore been received by claimant, directly or indirectly, from t/he Government.'"
As a conclusion of law the court found that claimant was
entitled, for the use of the companies, to recover the sum of

UNITED STATES v. AMERICAN TOBACCO CO.

473

Opinion of the Court.

$4100.10. Judgment pursuant to the finding of the court was
entered, from which an appeal was taken to this court.
.Mr. Assistant Attorney General -Dodge and .Mr.
Assistant
Attorney Binney for appellants.
.Mr. Charles W. Needham and lMr. John B. Cotton for
appellee.

MiR.

JUSTICE PECKHAM,

after stating the facts, delivered the

opinion of the court.
Three assignments of errors, alleged to have been made by
the court below, have been filed on the part of the Government, as follows:
"1. In holding that the use appellees had an equitable claim
against the appellant which could be enforced by a suit in the
name of the nominal appellee.
"2. In holding that section 3426 of the Revised Statutes,
as amended in 1879, required the Commissioner of Internal
Revenue to refund the tax represented by the face value of destroyed tobacco-tax stamps, or to furnish others in their place,
in cases where the full amount represented by such face value
had been recovered by the tobacco manufacturer from insurance companies, so that he had been subjected to no loss.
"3. In entering judgment in favor of the appellee for the
sum of $4100.10."
It is argued upon the part of the Government that as the
insurance companies have paid, the tobacco company in full
for the value of the stamps destroyed by fire, they have
thereby become the actual plaintiffs in this suit, and that the
connection of the tobacco company is merely nominal; the
case must, therefore, be decided as one between the United
States and the insurance companies. Dealing with the companies in that light, it is further urged that their right to sue
is based upon the ground that they are subrogated to the
rights of the tobacco company, and consequently if there be
no right of subrogation, there is no right of recovery ; there

OCTOBER TERMA,

1896.

Opinion of the Court.

is no right of subrogation, because 'there was no insurable interest in the stamps on the part of the tobacco company; and
there was no insurable interest because the tobacco company
could obtain from the Government either other stamps in lieu
of the stamps destroyed, or the amount or value thereof, upon
giving satisfactory evidence of the necessary facts to the Coimissioner of Internal Revenue, and therefore the tobacco company was not liable to suffer any loss, and as a consequence
bad no insurable interest in the stamps.
The argument, as we think, is not well founded. The case
is not to be treated or decided as one between the United
States and the insurance companies. On the contrary, the
rights of the companies, as between them and the Government, are not the subject-matter of the suit. The insurance
companies, as such, have no right of action against the Government. It is the right of the claimant, the tobacco company, which is to be passed upon, and unless that company
114s a legal cause of complaint no recovery can be had in this
suit. The companies must recover in the name of the tobacco
company and by reason of its rights. Hall & Zong v. Rail9'oad Companies, 13 Wall. 367, 372, and cases cited.
The suit is properly brought in the name of the insured for
the use of the insurers, but the cause of action rests on the
rights of the owner. Ibid.; Phwenix Ins. Co. v. Erie & Western Tranys)ortation Co., 117 U. S. 312, 321, and cases cited.
Payment to the owner by the insurer does not bar the right
against another party originally liable for the loss, but the
owner, by recovering payment of the underwriters, becomes
trustee for them, and by necessary implication makes an equitable assignment to them of his right to recover in his kame.
Rocklngham Matual Fire Ins. Co. v. Bosher, 39 Maine, 253,
255.
The question then arises as to what right, if any, the tobacco
company has under the statute above cited, when it appears
that the company has received payment from the insurance
companies for the value of the stamps destroyed. Is that fact
a bar to its right to claim payment under that section in a case
where-the recovery is sought for the purpose of reimbursing

UNITED STATES v. AMERICAN TOBACCO CO. 475
Opinion of the Court.

the insurance companies for the payments made by them to the
extent of the value of the stamps ?
We think upon the facts found by the Court of Claims the
action can be maintained, and the payments by the insurance
companies constitutes no bar.
No question is made in regard to the sufficiency of the proof
in regard to the destruction of the stamps by fire or of the bona
ides of the tobacco company. The claim was examined and
certified as true and correct by the United States Collector of
Internal Revenue for the district in which the factory was situated, but he failed to recommend payment of the claim, for the
reason, as stated by him, "that the claimant had been paid by
the insurance companies for the value of the stamps"; and
the department itself, when the claim was made, rendered
its decision upon the application, declining to allow the same,
for the reason " that satisfactory evidence has been furnished
to this office that the claimant has received reimbursement of
the value of the stamps by the recovery of insurance thereon."
It is true that the claimant was unable to comply with the
regulations of the department in one particular regarding the
oath to be made by such claimant. It could not truthfully be
said that the claimant had not theretofore received directly
or indirectly the value or reimbursement of the value of the
stamps. This oath was required by what is called "Form
38," which was a certain printed form of oath to be taken by
all claimants for reimbursement for stamps claimed to have
been destroyed within the meaning of the section of the
Revised Statutes heretofore quoted.
The claimant, however, through its proper officer, did make
oath that it "had not heretofore presented any claim to the
Government for the refunding of the above-mentioned amount,
or any part thereof," and "that the value or reimbursement of
the value of said stamps, or any portion thereof, has not heretofore been received by claimant directly or indirectly from
the Government."
While the regulation prescribed by the Commissioner of
Internal Revenue would be regarded as proper and appropriate for the purpose of satisfying him of the fact of the

OCTOBER TERMA,

1896.

Opinion of the Court.

destruction of the stamps, yet we think there was a substantial compliance with that regulation on the part of the tobacco
company in this case, when it made oath through its proper
officer to the fact of such destruction, and that it had not
presented any claim for the refunding of the amount or any
part thereof to the Government, nor had the value of said
stamps, or any portion thereof, been theretofore received
by the claimant, either directly or indirectly, from the Government.
The real object of the regulation, it must be assumed, was
to prevent fraud upon or improper claims against the Government and to protect it from itself twice paying for the loss.
If the object of the regulation were to discover whether the
stamps had been ingured and whether payment therefor had
been made by the insurance company, and if so, to base a
refusal to reimburse upon that fact, we think that portion
of the regulation was unreasonable, and compliance with the
form as provided was unnecessary.
The purpose of the statute was to have the Government reimburse the person who had bought and paid for internal
revenue stamps which had been destroyed under the circumstances mentioned in the statute, before they had been used.
To make such reimbursement would be no loss to the Government, while to retain the amount paid would be highly inequitable. The Government recognized this fact by the passage of
the statute in question. The company did not purchase the
stamps in payment of any tax then due from it to the Government; they were purchased as a matter of convenience and
to be thereafter affixed to packages of tobacco which were
to be sold in the future. The tax was laid upon sales of tobacco and the stamps were resorted to as a convenient means
of collecting the tax on such sales. Of course, if no sales of
packages of tobacco took place upon which the stamps might
be affixed, no tax had become due to the Government, and
therefore if after the purchase of the stamps they were destroyed by fire, the purpose of their purchase was frustrated
and the Government was not entitled, upon any equitable
ground, to retain the money paid for the stamps.

UNITED STATES v. AMERICAN TOBACCO CO.

477

Opinion of the Court.

In Jones v. Yan Benthuysen, 103 U. S. 87, 88, Mr. Justice
Miller said, speaking for the court:
!' Undoubtedly this statute, 15 Stat. 125, 152; only intended
to impose a tax upon the sales of tobacco, and if the dealer
was also the owner of stamps to be used in paying the duties
on tobacco, he could sell them separately in any quantity, without being liable to a tax for such sales. When unattached to
the tobacco they do not enter into its value, and they can be
bought and sold at their face value as an independent commodity, to be used when and wherever the purchasers choose
to do so. For such sales no tax is imposed upon the seller or
the buyer.
"On the other hand, we are of opinion that when they are
once attached to the tobacco and cancelled, and can never be
lawfully used again, they cease to have any separate and independent value, and that which they had previously has become merged into that of the tobacco. All subsequent sales
are made upon the basis of the increased value the tobacco
has acquired by the payment of the stamp duty, and can never
be estimated apart from this.
"It would seem to follow from this that if the stamps for
which the plaintiff was charged by the collector were not
affixed to the tobacco at the time he made the sale, no tax
should be charged to him for that value. On the other hand,
if the stamps were affixed at the time of the sale, they then
entered into the value of the tobacco purchased, and the
broker who made the sale should be taxed on the price of the
tobacco as it was sold."
Where the stamps have been destroyed under the circumstances detailed in this case, and those who paid for them apply to the Government to be reimbursed for their value, what
materiality is there in the fact that the applicant has been
paid the value of such stamps by an insurance company under
and by virtue of a separate contract made with that company
on the part of the claimant upon good consideration? That
circumstance does not alter the fact that the Government has
been paid for the stamps which were to be used for a certain
purpose - the payment of taxes thereafter to become due the

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

Government -and that by reason of the destruction of the
stamps by fire they cannot be used for the purpose for which
they were intended. Whatever sales of tobacco might be
thereafter effected by the tobacco company would have to be
evidenced by the attaching of other stamps upon the packages
sold. Unless, therefore, the Government repaid the value of
these stamps so destroyed, or provided other stamps in lieu
thereof without any further payment, the Government would
be in the position of one who retained money to which it had
no equitable right. It would be no answer to that fact to
show that some other person had reimbursed the claimant the
amount it had paid for the stamps. That would not alter the
position of the Government. We cannot think that the payment to the claimant by the insurance companies absolved the
Government in the slightest degree from the duty, under that
statute, of paying back the money which it had received and
for which it had delivered stamps that had been destroyed by
fire before the contemplated use of them had been made.
Whether or not the insurance companies could have made a
successful defence (to the extent of the value of the stamps in
question) to an action on teir policies by the assured, because
of an alleged lack of insurable interest in the stamps by the
assured, is beside the question. They were not bound to make
such defence. Having received the premiums they had the
right to fulfil their contract, and the tobacco company after
such payment might still ask the Government to pay to it the
value of the stamps in order that it might thereafter repay
the insurance companies. The Government loses nothing by
payment in such case. It simply repays money which it has
no equitable right to retain. The technical question of insurable interest does not arise in this case, which involves simply
the construction of the statute cited and the, right of the claimant to recover. As was said in Ma8on v. Sainsbury, 3 Dougl.
61, 64, by Mansfield, Lord Chief Justice, in reference to a defence of payment by the insurance companies: "The case is
clear: the act puts the lundred, for civil purposes, in the place
of the trespassers; and upon principles of policy, as in the
case of other remedies against the Hundred, I am satisfied

UNITED STATES v. AMERICAN TOBACCO CO.

479

Opinion of the Court.

that it is to be considered as if the insurers had not paid a
farthing." This was a case against the Hundred, upon a statute making it liable for damages to property caused by a mob.
Although the insurance company had paid the damages, the
action in the name of the owner of the property was sustained
exactly the same as if there had been -no payment by the insurers. The liability of the Hundred, under the statute, was
not thereby in the least affected. This case under the statute
cited is still stronger because the Government suffers no actual
loss by the repayment, while it would secure an unjust and
inequitable profit by its refusal to pay.
We are also of opinion that the tobacco company had an
insurable interest in the stamps. It owned them absolutely,
having purchased and paid for them. The right of reimbursement under the conditions named in the statute did not affect
that insurable interest, nor prevent the possibility of loss or
prejudice arising from the destruction of the stamps. Because
an owner of property may be able to reimburse himself ia case
of its destruction, from other sources, is no reason for denying to such owner an insurable interest in the property. An
owner has an insurable interest in his property to the extent
of the value of the building on it, notwithstanding the existence of a mortgage on the property sufficient to absorb it.
Per Bradley, J., in Insurance Co. v. Stinson, 103 U. S. 25, 29;
Mlay on Insurance, §§ 81, 82. The amount of interest or its
character is not material in determining the question whether
a party who attempts to recover under a policy has an
insurable interest. (Ibid.)
Upon all the facts, we think the objections above alluded
to are untenable.
Another objection raised by the Government is that, under
the section of the statute cited, the Commissioner of Internal
Revenue had the choice, in making an allowance or redemption, either to give other stamps in lieu of the stamps so
allowed for or redeemed, or to refund in money the amount
or value to the owner of the stamps, and that as he had such
election when he was applied to by the owner, an action thereafter commenced to recover the face value of the stamps in

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

money deprived him of that election, and hence could not be
maintained.
The statute does give to the Commissioner of Internal
Revenue the choice as to how reimbursement for the loss
of stamps should be made; whether by delivering other
stamps or by payment of the face value thereof in money.
When the claim in this case was filed with the Treasury
Department, the Commissioner had then the choice, upon
being satisfied of the necessary facts, to reimburse the claimant in either way he thought proper, either in stamps or in
money. That was the time when his election could properly
have been made. Instead thereof he refused absolutely to do
either, and gave as his reason that the claimant had already
been paid for the stamps by the recovery of the insurance
thereon. If that were a sufficient reason in law, the Commissioner was justified in his refusal. As it was not a sufficient reason, the Commissioner was not justified, however
sincerely he believed that he was. The claimant was, therefore, by reason of this refusal, compelled to resort to the courts
in order to obtain its legal rights under the statute. Having
filed its claim in the Court of Claims and asked for judgment
for the money value of the stamps, and a trial upon the merits
as to the liability of the Government to respond at all having
been had in the court below, and so far as appears from the
record no question of this kind having been therein made, it
is too late, upon argument in this court, for the Government
for the first time to question the form of the remedy, whether
it should be a demand for money only or one which left the
election still with the Commissioner to reimburse claimant by
giving stamps instead of payment in cash. The objection
does not go to the merits of the claim, but is one of procedure
only; hence, even if it would have been valid if taken in time,
it may be and was waived by the failure of the Government,
so far as the record shows, to take the objection until the
argument of' the case in this court.
We find no error in the record authorizing a reversal of the
judgment of the Court of Claims, and it is, therefore,
Afirined.

