WASHINGTON & GEORGETOWN R'D v. HICKEY.

521

Syllabus.

WASHINGTON AND GEORGETOWN RAILROAD
COMPANY v. HICKEY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 253. Argued March 30, 189T. - Decided April 19, 1897.

A car upon a street horse railroad in Washington, arriving at a point where
the street crossed a steam railroad at grade, found the gate bars lowered.
A train on the steam railroad was seen to be approaching. Before it
arrived at the crossing the bars were raised. The driver of the horse
car attempted to cross, notwithstanding the approaching train. The
gate bars were lowered again and the horse car was caught upon the
track. It was filled with passengers, among whom was Mrs. H., one of
the defendants in error, sitting upon an open outer seat. The frightened
passengers rushed precipitately from the car. Their doing this caused
Mrs. H1.to be thrown from the car, whereby she was seriously injured.
The railroad train was stopped just before reaching the horse car. The
bars were again raised, and the horse car went off the railroad track uninjured. Mrs. H. and her husband sued both railroad companies to
recover damages; alleging that she was pushed and shoved from her
seat and thrown violently to the ground; claiming that the steam railroad
company was liable by reason of the negligence of its servant in managing the gates, and that the horse railroad company was liable by reason
of the negligence of its driver in not waiting till the train should have
passed; and demanding a recovery of thirty thousand dollars as damages.
The court charged the jury that if they should find from all the evidence
that the plaintiffs were entitled to recover, they might award damages
within the limits claimed in the declaration. The jury returned a verdict
for twelve thousand dollars. The court thought this to be excessive.
With the plaintiffs' consent it was reduced to six thousand dollars, and
judgment entered for that amount. Held,
(1) That the driver of the horse car was guilty of negligence in attempting to cross the track of the steam railroad under the circumstances;
(2) That there was evidence to warrant the jury to find that the gaternan
was the servant of the steam railroad company, and that that
company was responsible for the results of his negligence;
(3) That as no exception was taken to the charge respecting damages, no
question upon it is before the court;
(4) That whether Mrs. H. was injured by falling from the car or from
being pushed from it was immaterial, in view of the causes of the
injury.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Samuel Maddox for the Baltimore & Potomac Railroad Company.
Mr.A. J. Colbert and Mr.G. E. Hamilton for defendants
inerror.
Mr. Walter D. Davidge for the Washington & Georgetown Railroad Company. Mr. Walter D. Davidge, Jr., was
on his brief.
MR.

JUSTICE

PECKHAm delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was brought by the defendants in error, who
are husband and wife, to recover from the defendants (the one
being a horse car company and the other a steam railroad
company) damages for personal injuries sustained .by the wife
on account of the alleged negligence of the servants of the defendants. The facts of the negligence were alleged in the declaration, and each defendant filed a plea of not guilty, upon
which issue was joined. A trial was had in the Supreme Court
of the District of Columbia, resulting in a verdict for the plaintiffs, the judgment upon which having been affirmed by the
Court of Appeals, the defendants have brought the case here
for review.
On the trial evidence was given tending to show these facts:
Mrs. Hickey, one of the plaintiffs, who was living with her
husband in the city of Washington, left her home therein on
the morning of the 12th day of August, 1889, and took a street
car of the defendant horse railroad company at the corner of
Pennsylvania Avenue and Seventh Street for the purpose of
going south along the last-named street; the car was a summer car and crowded with people going to the river on an excursion; she sat on the outside of the third seat in the front
of the car and in a very small space; the people seemed in a
hurry and some of them called out frequently to the driver to
"hurry up"; upon coming to the crossing of Seventh Street
and Maryland Avenue, where the car tracks of the two corporations intersect each other, the steam cars were seen approach-

WASHINGTON & GEORGETOWN R'D v. HICKEY.

523

Opinion of the Court.

ing the intersection at quite a rapid rate; the street car stopped
upon coming to the crossing, as the railroad gates were lowered;
then and before the steam train came on they were raised,
and the street car was started, and after it got on the track
of the steam cars the gates were again lowered, shutting in the
street car, the gates coming down, one on the car and one just
behind the horses. When the street car entered upon the
steam car crossing, the train on the tracks of the latter company was still moving quite rapidly towards the crossing and
but a short distance away and in plain sight from the horse
car; after getting partially upon the steam railroad track, the
gates, as stated, came down, and then they were again raised,
and the driver of the horse car whipped up his horses and the
car got across. Before the horse car had crossed the tracks,
the steam cars were coming pretty fast; the men who were
sitting down in the horse car all got up and the women commenced screaming; the people on the horse car rushed to get
off, and Mrs. Hickey was, in the course of the excitement and
commotion, pushed off the car and was badly and permanently
injured; when she fell, the steam cars were coming down and
the horse car (the gates having been raised) was then driven
across to the other side; the train was so close to the horse
car that it just got off the track in time to escape being run
over, while Mrs. Hickey says she was so near the steam car
tracks when the- train passed that she felt the air from the
engine upon her head.
One of the witnesses said that the driver of :the street car
first noticed the train when he was about 50 feet from the
steam car track. His car was moving at the rate of four and
a half to five miles an hour, and the train was then between
Eighth and Ninth streets, about 300 feet from Seventh
Street. The driver wanted to cross the steam car tracks before
the gate went down, and thought he could do so without
danger; he did not see that the gates were being lowered
as he approached, and did not put on the brakes or make
other effort to stop the car until "he got the bell." The gates
were once lowered and then raised to let the car pass, and
then they were again lowered, and it was when they were

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

lowered the second time that they came down between the
car and the horses, penning the car in on the steam track.
The gates were raised again, and the driver succeeded in getting the horse car across the track before the train approached.
The counsel for the horse car company claimed that the
cause of the accident was the commotion immediately preceding it, and by reason of which the plaintiff was pushed from
the car and injured, and the question was, what caused the
commotion? He urged that the commotion was caused by
the improper and negligent lowering of the gates at the time
when they penned the horse car between them and prevented
its progress across the tracks of the steam car company, and
that if the gates had not been thus lowered the horse car
would have had plenty of time to cross, and there would have
been no commotion and no accident. He, therefore, made
several requests to the court to charge the jury upon that
subject. The point of such requests was that if the jury
should find that the commotion and confusion which led to
the accident were caused by the sudden and negligent lowering of the gates upon the street car, which the driver of that
car had no reason to believe would be thus lowered, and if the
driver could have crossed in safety but for such lowering, then
the horse car company was not responsible, and no recovery
could be had against it.
A further request was made to charge that there was no
-evidence that the management of the horse car entered into
or contributed to the negligence of the gatekeeper, and if the
jury should find that the injury was caused by the negligence
of the gatekeeper, the verdict must be in favor of the horse
car company; also, that if the jury should find that the horse
car would have p.ssed the steam ear track without injury
to the plaintiff except for the lowering of the gates upon
the horse car, and that the lowering was the cause of the
injury and was an act of negligence on the part of the gatekeeper, then the horse car company was not responsible for
the injury; also, that if the jury found the injury to have
been the result of negligence of the gatekeeper in the management of the gates, and that but for such negligence the injury

WASHINGTON & GEORGETOWN R'D v. HICKEY.

525.

Opinion of the Court.

would not have been sustained by the plaintiff, and that the
driver of the horse car did not know and had no reason to
believe that the gatekeeper would be negligent, then the
plaintiffs were not entitled to recover against the horse car
company.
The refusal of the court to charge as requested was excepted
to and is now made a ground for the reversal of the judgment
by this court. In his argument here the counsel for the horse
car company said: "The gist of all of which instructions is that
no matter whether it was negligence or not for the'street car
company to drive its car upon the steam car track, yet, if the
jury found that it was the lowering of the gates (and not the
negligence, if it were such, in going upon the steam track)
that caused the injury, then they should find for the street
car company. The gist of the instructions is that it was the
lowering of the gates that caused the injury."
The vice in all this argument, as we think, consists in the
attempted separation into two distinct causes (remote and
proximate) of what in reality was one continuous cause. It
leaves out of view the action of the driver of the street car as
to whether he was or was not negligent, provided the jury
should say the accident would not have happened if the gates
had not been improperly lowered. That is, although the jury
should find that the act of the driver was negligent, and by
reason of that negligence his car was placed in such a position
that the negligent lowering of the gates concurred with his
action in producing the injury, the street car company must
be absolved, if the jury should be able to say that but for such
negligent lowering of the gates (which the driver of the horse
car had no reason to foresee) the accident would not have happened. This is an attempt to separate that which upon the
facts in this case ought not to be separated. The so called two
negligent acts were, in fact, united in producing the result,
and they made one cause of concurring negligence on the part
of both companies. They were in point of time substantially
simultaneous acts and parts of one whole transaction, and it
would be improper to attempt a separation in the manner
asked for by the counsel for the horse car company.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

In this connection the court did charge the jury as follows:
"It is claimed by the counsel for the Washington and
Georgetown Railroad Company that there was ample time
for its cars to pass over the track of the Baltimore and Potomac Railroad Company before the train of the latter would
reach the point of intersection of the two tracks, and that as
the car of the former company approached the track of the
latter the gates were up, and that the horses drawing the car
had reached the steam car track when the gatekeeper suddenly
lowered the gates, and thereby produced whatever alarm. or
confusion the evidence shows ensued among the passengers,
including the plaintiff, on the street car.
"If you find the evidence establishes these facts, as thus
claimed by the Washington and Georgetown Railroad Company, it would be entitled to your verdict in its favor."
The alleged negligence of the horse car driver consisted in
endeavoring to cross at all, under the circumstances, until after
Upon the
the passage of the train on the steam railroad.
evidence the jury would have been justified in finding that he
had no right to indulge in any close calculation as to time in
attempting to cross the steam car tracks before the train
thereon reached the point of intersection ; that it was a negligent act in making the attempt under a state of facts where
the least interruption or delay in the crossing over by the
horse car would probably lead to an accident. In this view
of the evidence and finding, it was not material that the driver
had no ground to expect the particular negligent act of lowering the gates and the consequent obstruction to his passage
across the steam car tracks, or that he would have had time
to cross if the delay thus occasioned had not occurred. The
jury had the right to find it was negligent to cause his car
to be so placed that any delay might bring on a collision.
The apparent liability to accident, if any delay should occur
from any cause whatever, was plain, and such fact would support a finding of negligence in attempting to cross before the
steam car train had passed. In such case it would be no excuse
that the particular cause of a possible or probable delay, viz.,
the lowering of the gates, was not anticipated. The important

WASHINGTON & GEORGETOWN R'D v. HICKEY.

527

Opinion of the Court.

fact was that there existed a possibility of delay, and, therefore, of very great- danger, and that danger ought to have
been anticipated and avoided. A delay might be occasioned
at that tiie by an almost infinite number of causes; the
horses might stumble, the harness might give way, the car
might jump the track; a hundred different things might happen which would lead to a delay, and hence to the probability
of an accident. It was not necessary that the driver should
foresee the very thing itself which did cause the delay. The
material thing for him to foresee was the possibility of a delay from any cause, and this he ought naturally to think of,
and a failure to do so, and an attempt to cross the tracks,
might be found by the jury to be negligence, even though he
would have succeeded in getting across safely on the particular occasion if it had not been for the action of the gatekeeper in wrongfully lowering the gates. The act of the
driver being a negligent act, and that act being in full force
and in the very process of execution at the time the accident
occurred, which accident would not have happened but for
such negligent act, the fact that another 'negligent act of a
third party contributed to the happening of the accident would
not absolve the horse car company. The negligent act of the
horse car driver joined with and became a part of the other
act in wrongfully lowering the gates, as described, and both acts
constituted but one cause for the commotion which naturally
resulted therefrom, and on account of both of these acts, as
parts of a whole transaction, the injury occurred.
In Insurance Oomfpany v. Tweed, 7 Wall. 44, which was an
action upon a policy of insurance that contained an exception
against fire that might happen "by means of an invasion,
insurrection, riot or civil commotion, or any military or
usurped power, explosion, earthquake or hurricane," the insurance company was held .not liable, although the fire by
which the premises insured were burned was not directly
caused by the explosion. The explosion occurred in another
warehouse, by reason of which a fire was started that caught
in still another building, and the fire from that building was
communicated to the premises which were insured, and which

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

were in that manner destroyed by the fire. The court held
that, as the whole fire was continuous from the time of the
explosion, and was under full headway in about a half an
hour, theloss by fire was within the exception contained in
the policy, and the insurers were not liable. In that case
the question of proximate and remote causes was alluded to,
and it was said, by Mr. Justice Miller, that "one of the most
valuable of all the criteriafurnished us by the authorities by
which to distinguish the remote from the proximate cause of
damage was to ascertain whether any new cause has intervened between the fact accomplished and the alleged cause.
If a new force or power has intervened, of itself sufficient to
stand as the cause of the misfortune, the other must be considered as too remote." In one sense there was in that case
a new cause existing in the fact that the explosion caused a
fire in another building first, and that the fire was carried by
the wind from that building to the building in question and
not from the building in which the explosion occurred, and so
it was claimed that the fire in the building covered by the
policy was not directly caused by the explosion; but the court
held that the distinction was not well founded, and that
within the policy the insurers were not liable. The fire, in
other words, occurred by means of the explosion, and no
new cause could be said to have intervened simply because
the premises insured were burned by the fire communicated
from a third building.
The case of Scheffer v. Railroad Compsany, 105 U. S. 249,
is an example of the other side. It was there held that where
the passenger was injured by reason of a railway collision,
and as a result of such injury he became disordered in mind
and body, and some eight months after the collision committed
suicide, his personal representatives could not maintain an
action against the railway company for his death, as his own
act was the proximate cause thereof. It was held that the relation of the negligence of the railroad company to the death of
the passenger was too remote to be regarded as a cause of
such death, or to justify a recovery against the company. Mr.
Justice Miller, in delivering the opinion of the court, said:

WASHINGTON & GEORGETOWN R'D v. HICKEY.

529

Opinion of the Court.

"The argument is not sound which seeks to trace fhis immediate cause of the death through the previous stages of
mental aberration, physical suffering and eight months' disease
and medical treatment to the original accident on the railroad.
Such a course of possible or even logical argument would lead
back to that 'great first cause least understood,' in which the
train of all causation ends.
"The suicide of Scheffer was not a result naturally
and
reasonably to be expected from the injury received on the
train. It was not the natural and probable consequence, and
could not have been foreseen in the light of the circumstances
attending the negligence of the officers in charge of the train.
"His insanity, as a cause of his final destruction, was as
little the natural or probable result of the negligence of the
railway officials, as his suicide, and each of these are casual or
unexpected causes, intervening between the act which injured
him and his death."
So in Carter v. Towne, 103 Mass. 507, and Davidson v.
Nichols, 11 Allen, 514, cited by counsel, the intervention of
another and sufficient cause to produce the result is apparent.
In the first case whatever of fault there was in the sale of
the gunpowder by the defendant to the boy became absolutely blotted out when, with the knowledge of his aunt,'who
had the charge of him and the house where he was living, it
was placed in the cupboard, and a week afterwards his mother
gave him some of the powder and he fired it off with her
knowledge. The fact that some days later he took, with her
knowledge, more of the powder and fired it off and was injured
by the expire;on, could not in-any rational degree be said to
be caused by the original wrongful sale of the powder.
In the other case tfe druggist sold an article harmless in
itself, mistaking it for another article, also harmless in
itself, but another person afterwards intermixed the article
sold with another article, making thereby a dangerous explosive from which injury was suffered. It was held that
there could be no recovery against the druggist, because
the sale was not the proximate cause of the accident.
These are plain cases of the intervention of other and
VOL. CLXvI-34

OCTOBER TERM, 1896;
Opinion of the Court.

sufficient causes for the injuries sustained and where the
original actions were too remote to be regarded as causes of
such injuries. The other cases cited by counsel are clearly
distinguishable in principle from this one. It is unnecessary
after what has been said to further comment on them.
We think there was no error in the refusal of the court to
charge as requested, and the exceptions to such refusal are
therefore untenable.
Another objection now urged by the counsel for the defendant railroads is to the charge of the learned judge on the
subject of damages. In response to the request of counsel
for plaintiffs the judge charged that"If the jury find from all the evidence that the plaintiffs
are entitled to recover in this action, then they shall award
such damages within the limits of the sum claimed in the
declaration as will fairly and reasonably compensate the
plaintiff Margaret for the pain and suffering caused to her by
the injury which she sustained and for the injury to her bodily
health and power of locomotion, if any such they find, which
she has sustained in the past and will continue to sustain in
the future as a natural consequence of said injury, and for
such internal injuries and impairment to her physical health
as they may find to be established by the evidence."
And the judge also charged:
"Your verdict, if you find for the plaintiff, must be a matter to be fixed by you in the exercise of a sound discretion, subject, of course, to the limits placed in the declaration of thirty
thousand dollars."
The objection which the counsel makes to this charge is that
it amounted to a direct intimation to the jury that the finding of a verdict for the sum named in the declaration would
not be excessive, and that the jury were misled by it, for they
brought in a verdict for the plaintiff for $12,000, which the
court actually found to be excessive, and directed that the
verdict should be set aside unless plaintiffs consented to
remit $6000, which they did.
But we fail to find from the record that any exception was
taken to the charge of the judge upon this subject of damages.

WASHINGTON & GEORGETOWN R'D v. HICKEY.

531

Opinion of the Court.

We do not intimate that an exception would have been good,
if it had been taken; it is sufficient that no exception raises the
question, and we do not therefore either discuss or decide it.
It is also objected that there is a variance between the declaration and the proof, and that the trial court did not try the
issues formed by the pleadings, but went beyond them and
made a new case for the plaintiffs.
The declaration alleges that the female plaintiff was pushed
and shoved from her seat in the car and thrown violently to
the ground and was injured in that way. The court charged
the jury that if they should find from the evidence that the
female plaintiff either jumped off the car in a reasonable effort
to avoid injury from collision, or was pushed or thrown from
the car by some other passenger or passengers endeavoring
in a reasonable manner to avoid injury from such collision,
and was thereby injured, then the plaintiffs were entitled to
recover.
Upon this subject of variance it was'said by Mr. Chief Justice Alvey, in delivering the opinion of the Court of Appeals
in this case, that" Whether she [Mrs. Iickey] fell in consequence of a push
received from some other terrified passenger, or in an attempt
to save herself by jumping from the car, it would make no
material difference in her right to recover. It is not so much
the manner of leaving the car as it was the exciting cause that
operated upon her, either directly and caused her to jump to
save herself, or upon others whose actions were justifiably incited by the impending danger, and, by natural, impulsive
movement, forced her from the car. In either case, her fall
to the ground and injury were the direct consequences of the
apparent and impending danger produced by the negligent
conduct of the defendants' servants and employes. There is,
therefore, no such variance as should defeat the plaintiffs'
right to recover, if the facts were found to exist, as we must
assume they were, according to the hypothesis of the instruction given by the court. It is said by the Supreme Court of
the United States that no variance ought ever to be regarded
as material where the allegation and proof substantially cor-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

respond' or where the variance was not of a character which
could have misled the defendant at the trial. 3Nash v. Towne,
5 Wall. 689, 697. Here the variance that is supposed to exist
was mainly produced by the proof introduced on the part of

the defendants, and therefore there was no surprise to them,
and it is not pretended that they were, in any manner, injured
by the supposed varianbe. There is in reality no substantial
variance between the allegations and proof."
We think this is a correct statement, and nothing more
need be said upon the subject.
These are all the questions raised by the counsel for the
horse railroad company which we think it necessary to
mention.
We have carefully examined the various points raised by
the learned counsel for the steam railroad company, and
are of opinion that they show the existence of no material
errors in the conduct of the trial which could or in any way
did prejudice the company. There was proper and sufficient evidence submitted to the jury on the question of the
employment of the gateman by the steam railroad company.
Although there was no direct evidence of an actual contract
of employment entered into between the company and the
gateman, yet there was ample evidence from which an inference of such employment might, properly have been drawn by
the jury. We also think the duties of a person so employed
were correctly stated to the jury. The question whether the
gateman neglected to properly dischage those duties was submitted to the jury in a manner to which no exception could
be taken.
Upon an examination of the whole case, we find no error
prejudicial to either company, and the judgment against both
must be
Affirmed.

