ALLEN v. CULP.
Statement of the Case.

action for the possession of "a lot or parcel of land, situated
in any city, town or village on the public lands," the plaintiff
is required to prove an actual enclosure of the whole lot, or
the erection of a dwelling house or other substantial building
on some part thereof, and adds that "proof of such building,
with or without enclosure, is sufficient to hold such lot or
parcel to the bounds thereof, as indicated by the plat of such
city, town or village, if there be one, and if there be no such
plat, then to hold the same, with its full width and extent
from and including such building to the nearest adjacent
street, where the intervening space has not been previously
claimed by adverse possession."
As to the circumstances to be considered in determining the
question of possession other than the instrument under which
the title is claimed, we think the court, in paragraphs 11 and
12, heretofore quoted, stated the law in such a way as to give
the plaintiff no ground of objection, and as upon these instructions the jury found the facts adversely to the plaintiff we
must accept that finding as conclusive. We see no error in
the record, and the judgment of the Court of Appeal is
Affirmed.

ALLEN v. CULP.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF COMMON PLEAS, No. 4, FOR THE COUNTY
OF PHILADELPHIA, STATE OF PENXSYLVANIA.
No. 252. Argued and submitted March 30, 1897.
-Decided

April190, 1897.

When letters patent are surrendered for the purpose of reissue, they continue valid until the reissue takes place, and if the reissue is refused they
stand as if no application had been made.
Whether, if the reissue be void, the patentee may fall back on his original
patent, is not decided.

THIS wa an action originally instituted in the Court of
Common Pleas for the County of Philadelphia, by the defendant in error, Andrew J. Culp, against Alonzo W. Allen, to
recover half of the profits made by the defendant from a cer-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

tain patent for a cop and bobbin winding machine, granted
jointly to Culp and Allen, and subsequently assigned to the
defendant Allen.
The alleged consideration for the transfer of plaintiff's half
interest was a promise on the part of the defendant that he
would divide with him the profits made by the sale of the
device, of which they were the joint owners, and also all damages which might be recovered against infringers of the patent; the principal object of the transfer being to enable the
defendant to have title thereto for the purpose of prosecuting these infringers. It seems that in November, 1892, the
defendant was advised by his counsel to apply for a reissue,
in order to more fully protect the invention, and he thereup6n
obtained the signature of the plaintiff, his co-inventor, to the
application by renewing the promises he had already made.
Both parties joined in the surrender of their patent and in the
application for a reissue, which, however, was rejected on the
ground of unreasonable delay, and also upon the further ground
that the new claims of the reissue had been anticipated by
other patents. Counsel for the defendant, who appears to have
had absolute control of the reissue proceedings, made no effort
to meet the formal objection of the examiner, and permitted
the application to lapse by his failure to prosecute it within
two years. He also. neglected to take an appeal from the
rejection of the application.
In January, 1893, defendant informed the plaintiff that he
did not intend to take any further proceedings with reference
to the patent, and refused to fulfil his promise with reference
to the division of profits.
Thereafter plaintiff began this suit to recover, under his
contract with the defendant, the half of the profits which the
latter had made out of the patent. The suit resulted in a
verdict for the plaintiff for $225. A new trial being refused,
defendant carried the case to the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, by which the judgment of the Court of Common Pleas
was affirmed, and the record remitted to that court. 166
Penn. St. 286. Thereupon defendant sued out this writ of
error.

ALLEN v. CULP.
Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Hector T. Fenton for plaintiff in error submitted on his
brief.
Mr. George Bradford Carr for defendant in error.
Conway Dillingham was on his brief.

ir.

MR. JUSTICE BRowN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

Upon the trial, the plaintiff having offered evidence in
support of his case, the defendant put in evidence a certified
copy of the application for a reissue of the letters patent in
question, and also a model of the tension device made and
sold by the defendant.
The application for a reissue war
made by Culp and Allen jointly, who prayed that they might
be allowed to surrender the patent, and that the same might
be reissued to Allen for the same invention upon an amended
specification.
To the specification was appended the usual
affidavit to the effect that the deponents believed that the
patent surrendered was inoperative or invalid, by reason of
a defective and ineffective specification, in that it failed to
properly describe the essential and important features of the
invention, and that such errors arose from inadvertency, accident and mistake, and without any fraudulent or deceptive
intention. The record also contained a communication from
the examiner refusing the reissue upon the ground of unreasonable delay, and also because the new claims had been
substantially anticipated by other patents.
Thereupon the court charged the jury, !it the request of the
plaintiff, that "where the reissue of letters patent is applied
for the surrender takes effect only upon the issue of the
amended patent, and if the issue is refused, the original patent
is returned to its owner"; and that "the action of the Patent
Office in refusing to reissue the patent in, suit did not affect
its validity, and the contract between the plaintiff and defendant in reference thereto was not rendered invalid by such
action."
In this connection the court also refused to charge the jury,

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

at the request of the defendant, that "the joint act of the
parties in surrendering the patent in question, and applying
for a reissue thereof on November 18, 1892, amounted to a
cancellation of the patent; and, being followed by a refusal
on the part Qf the Government to grant the reissue, operated
to end and determine the contract sued upon as to any of the
patented machines made after such surrender."
The first statutory provision for the reissue of letters patent
made itsappearance in the act of July 3, 1832, repeated and
expanded in the thirteenth section of the patent act of 1836,
which provided generally that whenever any patent should be
inoperative or invalid, by reason of a defective description or
specification, or by reason of the patentee claiming more than
he had a right to, if the error arose from inadvertency, accident or mistake, and without any fraudulent or deceptivq
intention, it should be lawful for the Commissioner, upon the
surrender to him of such patent, to cause a new one to be
issued for the same invention, for the residue of the period
then unexpired for which the original patent was granted, in
accordance with the patentee's corrected description and specification. This was but little more than putting in statutory
form a power which this court had already held to exist,
prior to the act of 1832, in the Secretary of State in the
absence of a statute. Grant v. Raymond, 6 Pet. 218. But
in construing this statute it was uniformly held by this court
that the surrender of the patent for reissue was a legal cancellation and extinguishment of it; that no rights could afterwards be asserted upon it, and that suits pending for an infringement of such patent fell with its surrender, because the
foundation, upon which they were begun, no longer eiisted.
Moffitt v. Garr, 1 Black,, 273; Reedy v. Scott, 23 Wall. 352,
364; Peck v. Collins, 103 U. S. 660.
To obviate the injustice to inventors occasioned by the
peremptory requirement that the patent should be treated as
extinguished from the moment it was surrendered for a reissue,
it was provided, in section 53 of the patent act of 1870, amending the thirteenth section of the act of 1836, that upon the
surrender of a patent for that purpose a reissue should be

ALLEN v. CULP.
Opinion of the Court.

granted "for the unexpired part of the term of the original
patent, the surrender of which shall take effect upon the reissue
of the amended patent." These words were obviously inserted
for the purpose of preventing the surrender taking immediate
effect, and to postpone its legal operation until the patent
should be reissued. When a patent is thus surrendered, there
can be no doubt that it continues to be a valid patent until it
is reissued, when it becomes inoperative; but if a reissue be
refused, it is entirely clear that the surrender never takes
effect, and the patent stands as if no application had ever been
made for a reissue. Whether, if the reissue be void, the
patentee may fall back on his original patent, has never yet
been decided by this court, although the question was raised
in Eby v. King, 158 U. S. 366; but as the original patent in
that case was also held to be void, it did not become necessary
to express an opinion upon the question. But if the original
application for a reissue be rejected, the original patent stands
precisely as though a reissue had never been applied for,
unless at least the reissue be refused upon some ground
equally affecting the original patent. If it were otherwise,
every patentee who applies for a reissue would do so at the
peril, not only of having his application refused, but of losing
what he already possessed. This was the very contingency
the act of 1870 was designed to provide against.
It is true that, in making his surrender, the patentee declares that his patent is inoperative and invalid, but this is not
necessarily so for all purposes, but for the purpose for which
he desires to have it reissued. Such a patent might be inoperative and invalid as against certain persons who had
pirated the underlying principle of the patent, and avoided
infringing the exact language of the claims, and yet be
perfectly valid as against others, who were making machines clearly covered by their language. Such was the
case here, since the defendant in his affidavit of defence admitted that, "after the dissolution of said firm, each party on
his individual account continued the same business, deponent
having made some of said patented machines." But in addition to this, the court charged the jury that unless the devices

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

made by the defendant were essentially the same as that covered by the patent there could be no recovery, and the verdict
necessarily established their identity.
There was no error in the ruling of the court below, and
Affirmed..
its judgment is, therefore,

FORSYTH v. HAMMOND.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SEVENTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 615. Argued January 20, 1897. -Deided

April 19, 1891.

Under the judiciary act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, the power of this court Ia
certiorari extends to every case pending in the Circuit Courts of Appeals
and may be exercised at any time during such pendency, provided the
case is one which, but for this provision of the statute, would be finally
determined in that court.
While this power is coextensive with all possible necessities, and sufficient
to secure to this court a final control over the litigation in all the courts
of appeal, it is a power which will be sparingly exercised, and only when
the circumstances of the case satisfy this court that the importance of
the question involved, the necessity of avoiding conflict between two or
more courts of appeal, or between courts of appeal and the courts of a
State, or some matter affecting the interests of the Nation, in its internar
or external relations, demands such exercise.
As, in the contests between the parties to this suit, the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Seventh Circuit and the Supreme Court of the State of
Indiana had reached opposite conclusions as to their respective rights,.
and as all the unfortunate possibilities of conflict and collision which,
might arise from these adverse decisions were suggested when this
application for certiorari was made, it seemed to this court that,
although no final decree had been entered, it was its duty to bring the
case and the questions here for examination at the earliest possiblemoment.
The plaintiff In error having voluntarily commenced an action in the
Supreme Court of the State to establish her rights against the city of
Hammond, and the questions at issue being judicial in nature and within
the undoubted cognizance of the state court, she cannot, after a decision
by that court be heard in any other tribunal to collaterally deny Its.
validity.
Though the form and causes of action be different, a decision by a court of

