GRAND LODGE v. NEW ORLEANS.
Statement of the Case.

GRAND LODGE F. AND A. MASONS OF LOUISIANA v. NEW ORLEANS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.
No. 111.

Argued January 19, 1897.- Decided March 15, 1897.

Act No. 225 of the legislature of Louisiana of March 15, 1855, exempting
the hall of the Grand Lodge from state and parish taxation, "so long as
it is occupied as a Grand Lodge of the F. & A. Masons," did not constitute a contract between the State and the complainant, but was a mere
continuing gratuity which the legislature was at liberty to terminate or
withdraw at any time.
If such a law be a mere offer of bounty it may be withdrawn at any time,
although the recipients may have incurred expense on the faith of the
offer.

THIs was a petition originally filed in the Civil District
Court for the parish of Orleans by the Grand Lodge of the
F. & A. Masons of the State of Louisiana, to enjoin the city
of New Orleans from proceeding to sell, for the taxes of 1888,
1889 and 1890, certain property owned by the petitioner, and
claimed to be exempt from taxation.
The petition set forth that the Grand Lodge. was incorporated by a perpetual charter, granted by the legislature in
1816; that petitioner was the owner of a lot of ground,
With buildings and improvements thereon, at the corner of
St. Charles and Perdido streets, known as the hall of the
Grand Lodge, etc., which property it had purchased in 1853
by a notarial act, in which was incorporated a resolution of
the Grand Lodge, which, in substance, devoted the entire net
revenues of such property "to the relief of worthy distressed
members of the order, their wives, children and families, and
as a permanent charitable fund "; that such resolution was in
strict accord with the objects of the institution, of which
the Grand Lodge is the superintending body or organization, "the principles of which are charity and universal
benevolence," and "to the end thereof, that charitable insti-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

tutions may be promoted," the act of incorporation was
enacted; that further to promote this object the legislature,
by an act (No. 255), approved March 15, i855, acts of 1855,
p. 270, exempted said hall from city and parish taxation, so
long as it was occupied by the Grand Lodge of F. & A.
Masons, which exemption was claimed to have become a
contract between the State and the Grand Lodge so long as
the property was owned and occupied by it. The petitioner
alleged that the principles and objects of Free Masonry are
still unchanged, and that the net revenues arising from the
property have not been diverted; that the city now claims
that the property is subject to taxation, and threatens to
enforce the collection of the taxes.
The answer of the city was simply a general denial.
Upon the trial it appeared that the Grand Lodge was incorporated by act of March 18, 1816, with full power and authority to take, hold and enjoy real and personal property, etc. ;
that the hall was erected in the year 1845 for a commercial
exchange, and was purchased by the Grand Lodge for a
hall in 1853; that on March 15, 1855, the general assembly
enacted that the building, whose location and name were
given in the act, should be exempt from state and parish
taxation so long as it was occupied as the Grand Lodge of
the F. & A. Masons. It further appeared that the objects proposed by the institution were charity and universal benevo
lence; that contributions were exacted from each member of
the order for the ordinary expenses of the lodge and as a
fund for the purposes of charity, to be distributed as occasion
required, and that from 1853 to the present time the whole of
the revenue, except that used for insurance, repairs and current expenses, has been exclusively devoted to charitable purposes as stated in the charter and act of sale. These revenues
averaged over $3000 per year.
It further appeared that in 1879 a new constitution was
adopted by the State, of which article 207 was as follows:
"The following property shall be exempt from taxation and
no other, viz.: All public property, places of religious worship
or burial, all charitable institutions; . . . provided, the

GRAND LODGE v. NEW ORLEANS.
Opinion of the Court.

property so exempted be not used or leased for ptrposes of
private or corporate profit or income."
Upon the hearing in the District Court, the property w'as
'held to be exempt from taxation, and an injunction granted.
The city appealed to the Supreme Court, which reversed. the
decree of the District Court and dissolved the injunction.
Upon a rehearing, the decree was amended by recognizing
the exemption of that part of the property occupied by the
grand and subordinate lodges of Masons, and in other respects
the demand was rejected, and the case remanded to the court
below with directions to hear evidence and ascertain what
property whs thus occupied, and what property was rented
or used for private or corporate profit or income, and to pass
upon and decide the relative values of that part of the property thus occupied by said Masons to that leased or used as
aforesaid, that is, "from the assessed value of the property,
viz., $60,000, must be deducted the value of the property
exempted aforesaid."
The case having been remanded and reheard in the District Court, a new judgment was rendered in favor of the city
for the city taxes of 1888, on an assessment of $20,000; of
the year 1889, on an assessment of $10,000, and for the year
1890, on an assessment of $6200. The case was then appealed
and reheard in the Supreme Court, and the judgment of the
District Court affirmed. Whereupon petitioner sued out this
writ of error.
Mr. Charles F. Buck for plaintiff in error.
Fellows was on his brief.

Mr. J. Q. A.

.Mr.
Samuel L. Gilmore for defendant in error. ,Mr. W. R.
Sommerville was on his brief.
ir. 21. J. Cunningham, Attorney General of the State of
Louisiana, Mr. F. C. Zacharie and Mr. Alexander Porter
Morse filed a brief on behalf of the State.
MR. Jus,ricE BROWN delivered the opinion of the court.
VOL. CLXVI-10

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

The only question in this case is whether the act of 1855,
exempting the hall of the Grand Lodge from state and parish
taxation, "so long as it is occupied as a Grand Lodge of the
F. & A. Masons," constitutes a contract between the State
and the complainant, or was a mere continuing gratuity which
the legislature was at liberty to terminate or withdraw at any
time, and which the State did subsequently withdraw by the
adoption of a constittition, which secured the exemption of
the property of "all charitable institutions, . . . ,provided,
the property so exempted be not used or leased for the purposes of private or corporate profit or income." It appeared
in this case that, during the years in which the assessments
complained of were made, a part of the ground floor of the
exempted property was rented for stores; that some of the
rooms were rented for other like purposes, and that from these
sources a large amount of corporate income had been realized,
although that income was devoted to charitable purposes.
If the act of 1855 be regarded as a contract within the case
of Dartmouth College v. Woodward, 4 Wheat. 518, then it is
clear that the exemption from taxation was valid, and beyond
the power of the legislature to abrogate. State Bank v.
Ifnoop, 16 How. 369; -New Jersey v. Wilson, 7 Cranch, 164;
Gordon v. Appeal Tax Court, 3 How. 133; Dodge v. Woolsey,
18 How. 331; Jefferson Branch Bank v. Skelly, 1 Black, 436;
McGee v. Mathis, 4 Wall. 143; Wilmington Rdilroad v. Reid,
13 Wall. 264; HYumphrey v. Pegues, 16 Wall. 244; Farrington
v. Tennessee, 95 U. S. 679; Vew Jersey v. Yard, 95 U. S.
104.
To make such a contract, however, there is the same necessity for a consideration that there would be if it were a contract between private parties. If the law be a mere offer of
a bounty, it may be withdrawn at any time, notwithstanding
the recipients of such bounty may have incurred expense upon
the faith of such offer. Thus, the legislature of the State of
Michigan, desiring to encourage the manufacture of salt, which
had been recently discovered in the Saginaw Valley, in 1859,
offered exemption from taxation and a bounty of ten cents
per bushel to all individuals, companies or corporations formed

GRAND LODGE v. NEW ORLEANS.
Opinion of the Court.

for the purpose of boring for and manufacturing salt. It was
held in the Salt Company v. East Saginaw, 13 Wall. 373, that,
if the salt company plaintiff had been incorporated by a special charter, containing the provision that its property should
be exempt from taxation, and that charter had been accepted
and acted upon, it would have constituted'a contract; but that
this was a bounty offered to all corporations and individuals
who should manufacture salt, and there was no pledge that
it should not be repealed at any time; that as long as it remained a law, every individual or corporation was'at liberty
to avail himself or itself of its advantages, by complying with
its terms, and doing the things which it promised to reward;
but was also at liberty at any time to abandon such a course;
that it was a matter purely voluntary upon both sides-giving to one party the power to abandon the manufacture of
salt, and to the other to repeal the exemption from taxation
and the bounty of ten cents per bushel. The consequence of
a different decision in this case might easily have become
disastrous, since the arguments which were urged upon this
court at that time would have been equally forceful at any
time thereafter, and the State might have found itself bound
by a perpetual pledge to pay ten cents upon every bushel of
salt thereafter manufactured by the companies, which had
embarked in the enterprise under the encouragement of the
bounty. A like ruling was made in Welch v. Cook, 97 U. S.
541, in which an act of the legislature of the District of
Columbia, exempting frotm general taxation for ten years
such real and personal property as might be employed within
the District for manufacturing purposes, did not create an
irrepealable contract with the owners of such property, but
merely conferred a bounty, liable at any time to be withdrawn.
Complainant, while admitting the soundness of this proposition, claims that the requisite consideration existed in the
deed by which the property was acquired, wherein the Grand
Lodge solemnly declared and proclaimed said purchase to be
made for the purpose and object of creating a fund for charitable purposes, in the relief of worthy distressed members of

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

the order, their wives, children and families; and solemnly
pledged itself that as soon as the said property should be paid
for, the whole of the revenue which might be derived from
it, after deducting necessary and unavoidable expenses on its
account, should be devoted to those objects.
This consideration, however, was not one upon the faith of
which the legislature granted the exemption, since the deed
had already been in existence for two years, and the property
had been purchased under the resolution of the lodge, adopted
January 27, 1853, to the same effect fs the above recital in
the deed. While subscriptions for the purchase of the property may have been obtained upon the faith of this resolution,
it cannot be said to have constituted a consideration for the
exemption. The alleged contract for exemption was not
in other cases where such excontained in the charter -as
emption has been sustained-since the lodge had already
pledged its revenues to charitable purposes; and when the
act was passed it gave no additional pledge, and promised
nothing which it had not already promised, and was bound
in honor to perform. If additional subscriptions were obtained
upon the faith of the act, the subscribers were bound to take
notice of the fact that the legislature was at liberty to repeal
the act at any time, or, that the people might, in the exercise
of their sovereign power, nullify it by an amendment to the
constitution.
In the Home of the Friendless v. Rouse, 8 Wall. 430, relied
upon by the plaintiff in error, the exemption was contained in
the original charter of the Home of the Friendless, which
purported in its preamble to be granted for the purpose of
encouraging the undertaking, and enabling the parties engaged
therein more fully and effectually to accomplish their laudable purpose. The exemption was offered not in view of a
consideration which had already passed, but for the purpose
of inducing the incorporators to accept the charter and to
parry out the enterprise.
So in Asylum v. New Orleans, 105 U. S. 362, the institution
was incorporated under an act of the general assembly, which
declared that all the property belonging to the institution

GRAND LODGE v. NEW ORLEANS.
Opinion of the Court.

should be exempted from all taxation. The question turned
upon the exemption of certain property which was devised to
it twenty years after it was incorporated, the revenues of which
were applied to enable it to carry on its work; but it was held
that the contract applied not only to property in existence
when the charter was granted, nor only to that which was in
existence when the constitution of 1868 was adopted, but to
all which might afterwards be acquired in the due fulfilment
of the purposes of the institution.
We are of opinion that the act in question in this case was
one which the legislature might properly enact as a matter of
public policy, and in aid of a beneficent purpose ; but that it
was a mere gratuity or bounty which it was competent at any
time to terminate, and that this was done by Art. 207 of the
Constitution of 1879. The case is practically upon all fours
with that of The Rector of Christ Church v. Philadelphia,24
how. 300, in which the legislature of Pennsylvania enacted
that "the real property, including ground rents, now belonging
and payable to Christ Church Hospital, in the city of Philadelphia, so long as the same shall continue to belong to the
said hospital, shall be and remain free from taxes." Eighteen
years thereafter, the legislature enacted that all property belonging to any association, then exempt from taxation, other
than that in actual use and occupation of such association,
should thereafter be subject to taxation. It was held that
this last law was not in violation of the Constitution of the
United States; that the former act of 1833 was a mere privilege existing bcne placitum, and might be revoked at the pleasure of the sovereign. It would seem from this case that the
hospital had been incorporated long before the act containing
the exemption was passed, as that act .recited that the hospital
"had for many years afforded an asylum for numerous poor
and distressed widows," and that the exemption was granted
on account of its means being curtailed by decay of the buildings; and the increased burden of taxation. So in Tucker
v. Ferguson, 22 Wall. 527, and in West Wisconsin Railway v. Board of Sutpervisors, 93 U. S. 595, it was held that
an act of the legislature exempting property of all railroads

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

from taxation was not a contract to exempt, unless there were
a consideration for the act; that the promise of a gratuity, spontaneously made, may be kept, changed or recalled at pleasure, and that this rule applied to the agreements of States,
made without consideration, as well as to those of persons.
See also -Newtonv. Comneissioners,100 U. S. 548, 561, and People
v. Roper, 35 N. Y. 629, wherein a law, providing that persons
who had served seven years in the militia and had been honorably discharged, were entitled to perpetual immunity from
taxation to the extent of $500 each, was held to be repealable
at any time by the legislature.
The act of 1855, now in question, clearly falls within the
latter class of gratuities or bounties, which are subject to the
will of the legislature, and'may be withdrawn at any time.
The decree of the court below was, therefore, right, and
will be
Afirmed.

HENDERSON BRIDGE COMPANY v. KENTUCKY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
No. 462. Argued December 11, 14, 1896.

KENTUCKY.

Decided March 15, 1897.

The Henderson Bridge Company was a corporation created by the Commonwealth of Kentucky for the purpose of erecting and operating a railroad
bridge, with its approaches, over the Ohio River between the city of
Henderson, in Kentucky, and the Indiana shore. It owned 9.46 miles of
railroad and .65 of a mile of siding, making its railroad connections in
Indiana, which property was assessed for taxation in that State, at
$627,660. The length of the bridge in the two States, measured by feet,
was one third in Indiana and two thirds in Kentucky. The tangible
property of the company was assessed in Henderson County, Kentu6ky, at
$649,735.54.
From the evidence before them, the Board of Valuation
and Assessment placed the value of the company's entire property at
$2,900,000, and deducted therefrom $627,660 for the tangible property
assessed in Indiana, which left $2,272,340, of which two thirds, or
$1,514,893, was held to be the entire value of the property in Kentucky.
From this, $649,735.54, the value of the tangible property in Henderson

