UNITED STATES v., GREATHOUSE.
Opinion of the Court.

UNITED STATES v. GREATHOUSE.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 234. Argued March 25, 1897. -Decided

April 19,1897.

The act of March 3, 1887, 24 Stat. 505, c. 359, providing for the bringing
of suits against the Government, known as the Tucker act, did not
repeal so much of section 1069 of the Revised Statutes as provides "that
the claims of married women first accrued during marriage, of persons
under the age of twenty-one years first accrued during minority, and of
idiots, lunatics, insane persons and persons beyond the seas at the time
the claim accrued, entitled to the claim, shall not be barred if the petition be filed in the court or transmitted, as aforesaid, within three years

after the disability has ceased; but no other disability than those enumerated shall prevent any claim from being barred, nor shall any of the
said disabilities operate cumulatively."

THE case is stated in the opinion.

-Mr. As8istant Attorney

General Dodge for appellants.

Xr. John C. Fay for appellee.
MR.JUSTICE HIALAx delivered the opinion of the court.
This action was brought in the Court of Claims on the 24th
day of April, 1894.
The claimant Greathouse was appointed Consul General of
the United States at Kanagawa, Japan, and served in that
capacity from August 1, 1886, to March 31, 1889. Since
the last named date he has continuously resided in foreign
countries, and had not when this cause was heard below
returned to the United States.
During the above period he collected $1795 from sundry
persons for certifying invoices of goods shipped through the
United States in transit to foreign countries and $61 from
other persons for certifying the value of Japanese currency
attached to such invoices.
Under the rules and regulations of the State and Treasury
Departments the fees so collected were "accounted for and

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

paid" to the United States, the first payment being made on
January 27, 1887, and the last on July 18, 1889.
On the foregoing facts found by the Court of Claims, the
majority of that court held as a conclusion of law that the
claimant was entitled to recover from the United States
$1856, which was the aggregate amount of the above payments to the United States.
As it is a condition or qualification of the right to a judgment against the United States in the Court of Claims that,
except where the claimant labors under some one of the
disabilities specified in the statute, the claim must be put
in suit by the voluntary action of the claimant, or be presented to the proper department for settlement within six
years after suit could be commenced thereon against the
Government, Finn v. United States, 123 U. S.227, 232, it is
contended that the court below erred in not holding that all
demands for sums paid by the claimant into the Treasury
prior to April 24, 1888, were barred by limitation, and that
judgment should not have been rendered for any sum in excess
of the aggregate amount paid by claimant into the Treasury
after that date.
By section 1069 of the Revised Statutes of the United States
it is provided that " every claim against the United States,
cognizable by the Court of Claims, shall be forever barred
unless the petition setting forth a statement thereof is filed
in the court, or transmitted to it by the Secretary of the
Senate or the Clerk of the House of Representatives as provided by law, within six years after the claim first accrues:
Provided, That the claims of married women first accrued
during marriage, of persons under the age of twenty-one
years first accrued during minority, and of idiots, lunatics,
insane persons and persons beyond the seas at the time the
claim accrued, entitled to the claim, shall not be barred if
the petition be filed in the court or transmitted, as aforesaid,
within three years after the disability has ceased 'but no
other disability than those enumerated shall prevent any
claim from being barred, nor shall ai~y of the said disabilities
operate cumulatively."

UNITED STATES v. GREATHOUSE.
Opinion of the Court.

It will be observed that by this section "persons beyond the
seas" having claims against the United States cognizable by
the Court of Claims were entitled to sue within three years
after the disability of absence was removed. As Greathouse
was beyond the seas during the whole period covered by his
claim and up to the institution of this action, the limitation of
six years would not apply to this case, if the exception made
by the Revised Statutes of "persons beyond the seas" is still
in force.
It is contended that since the passage of the act of March 3,
1887, 21 Stat. 505, c. 359, entitled "An act to provide for
the bringing of suits against the Government of the United
States," known as the Tucker act, the' limitation of six years
is applicable to all claims against the United States cognizable
by any court, under whatever disability the claimant may have
labored.
That act provides: "The Court of Claims shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine the following matters: First.
All claims founded upon the Constitution of the United States
or any law of Congress, except for pensions, or upon any regulation of an Executive Department, or upon any contract, expressed or implied, with the Government of the United States,
or for damages, liquidated or unliquidated, in cases not sounding in-tort, in respect of which claims the party would be
entitled to redress against the United States, either in a court
of law, equity or admiralty, if the United States were suable:
Provided,however, That nothing in this section shall be construed as giving to either of the courts herein mentioned, jurisdiction to hear and determine claims growing out of the late
civil war, and commonly known as 'war claims,' or to hear
and determine other claims, which have heretofore been rejected, or reported on adversely, by any Oourt, department
or commission authorized to hear and determine the same.
Second. All set-offs, counter-claims, claims for damages,
whether liquidated or unliquidated, or other demands whatsoever on the part of the Government of the United States
against any claimant against the Government in said court:
Provided, That no suit against the Government of the United

604

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

States shall be allowed under this act unless the same shall
have been brought within six years after the right accrued for
which the claim is made."
The District Courts of the United States were given by
§ 2 of the same act concurrent jurisdiction with the Court
of Claims as to all matters named in the above section
where the amount of the claim did not exceed one thousand dollars, the Circuit Courts of the United States to have
such concurrent jurisdiction in all cases where the amount of
the claim exceeds one thousand dollars and does not exceed
ten thousand dollars.
It was further provided by § 4 that the jurisdiction of
the respective courts of the United States proceeding under
that act, including the right of exception and appeal, should
be governed by the law then in force, in so far as the same
was applicable and not inconsistent with the provisions of that
act; and the course of procedure is to be in accordance with
the established rules of said respective c urts, and of such additions and modifications thereof as they may adopt. § 4.
By the Tucker act, section 1079 of the Revised Statutes
was expressly repealed, and it was declared that the provisions
of section 1080 shall apply to cases under that act. § 8.
The ninth section of the act provides that "the plaintiff or
the United States, in any suit brought under the provisions of
this act, shall have the same rights of appeal or writ of error
as are now reserved in the statutes of the United States in
that behalf made, and upon the conditions and limitations
therein contained. The modes of procedure in claiming an
appeal or writ of error shall conform in all respects, as near
as may be, to the statutes and rules of court governing appeals
and writs of error in like causes."
The act of March 3, 1887, it will be observed, expressly
repealed only § 1079 of the Revised Statutes, and all laws
and parts of laws that were inconsistent with that act.
In United States v. Jones, 131 U. S. 1, 16, it was held that
the jurisdiction given to the Court of Claims by the act of
1887 was precisely the same as that given in the acts of 1855
and 1863, 10 Stat. .612, c. 122; 12 Stat. 765, c. 92, with the

UNITED STATES v. GREATHOUSE.
Opinion of the Court.

addition that it was extended by the act of 1887 to damages,
liquidated and unliquidated, "in cases not sounding in tort,
and to claims for which redress may be had either in a court
of law, equity or admiralty." But it does not follow that the
proviso of section 1 of the act of 1887, declaring that "no suit
against the Government of the United States shall be allowed
under this act unless the same shall have been brought within
six years after the right accrued for which the claim is made,"
should be held to have displaced every part of section 1069 of
the Revised Statutes. The act of 1887 only superseded such
previous legislation as was inconsistent with its provisions.
It is true that if that act be literally construed, there is some
ground for hoIting that Congress intended by the proviso of
section 1 to cover the whole subject of the limitation of suits
against the Government, in whatever court instituted. But
we pannot suppose that it was intended-to strike down the
exceptions made in section 1069 of the Revised Statutes in
favor of "the claims of married women first accrued during
marriage, of persons under the age of twenty-one years first
accrued during minority, and of idiots, lunatics, insane persons,
and persons beyond the seas at the time the claim accrued."
Those exceptions were not expressly abrogated by the act of
1887, and they could be held to be repealed only by implication. But repeals by implication are not favored, and when
two statutes cover in whole or in part the same matter, and
are not absolutely irreconcilable, effect should be given, if
possible, to both of them. Frost v. Wenie, 157 U. S.46, 58;
United States v. Iealey, 160 U. S. 136, 147.
In conformity with this principle we must adjudge that the
above proviso of section 1069 of the Revised Statutes is still
in force, because not absolutely inconsistent with the last
proviso of the act of 1887; consequently, that the claim of
a person who was beyond the seas at the time the claim
accrued is not barred until three years shall have expired
after such disability is removed without suit against the
Government. Although the act of 1887 prescribes the limitation for suits "under this [that] act," without making any
exception in favor of persons under disability, it should be

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

interpreted as if the proviso in section 1069 of the Revised,
Statutes were added to section 1 of th 4 t act. We could not
hold otherwise without deciding, in effect, that the limitation
of six years applied to claims accruing to married women and
infants during their respective disabilities, as well as to the
claims of idiots, lunatics and insane persons. We are unwilling to hold that Congress intended any such result. We may
add that it was not contemplated that the limitation upon suits
against the Government in the District and Circuit Courts of
the United States should be different from that applicable to
like suits in the Court of Claims.
It results that as the appellee was "beyond the seas" at the
time his demand first accrued, and had not returned to this
country prior to the institution of this suit, his claim was not
barred by limitation. The judgment of the Court of Claims
which is not disputed upon any ground affecting the merits
of the claim in suit- is therefore
Affirmed.

TEXAS

AND

PACIFIC RAILWAY
CODY.

COMPANY

v.

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOE THE FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 246. Argued and submitted March 29, 1897. - Decided April
19, 1897.

The plaintiff in his declaration described himself as a resident fn Texas,
and the defendant as a railway company created and existing under the
laws of Texas. 'The railway company was in fact a corporation organized under and by virtue of acts of Congress, and in a petition for the
removal of the action from a state court of Texas to the Federal court,
set that forth as a ground for removal, and the petition was granted,
and the case was removed to the Circuit Court of the United States, and
tried-and decided there. Held, that the Circuit Court properly entertained
jurisdiction.
In an action against.a railroad company to recover damages for injuries received by a person travelling on a highway, by a collision at a crossing of
the railroad by the highway at grade, an instruction to the jury that the
obligations, rights and duties of railroads and travellers upon highways
crossing-them are mutual and reciprocal, and that no greater care is re-

