ZADIG v. BALDWIN.
Syllabus.

matter of law and of fact, cannot be doubted. . . . It may
be confessed that it is not always very easy to determine what
matters go to the jurisdiction of a court so as to make its action,
when erroneous, a nullity. But the general rule is that when
the court has jurisdiction by law of the offence charged, and
of the party who is so charged, its judgments are not nullities."
In the Belt case, this court, speaking through Mr. Chief
Justice Fuller, said (p. 99):
"Without in the least suggesting a doubt as to the efficacy,
value and importance of the system of trial by jury in criminal
as well as in civil actions, we are clearly of opinion that the
Supreme Court of the District had jurisdiction and authority
to determine the validity of the act which authorized the
waiver of a jury and to dispose of the question as to whether
the recprd of a conviction before a judge without a jury, where
the prisoner waived trial by jury according to statute, was legitimate proof of a first offence, and this being so, we cannot
review the action of that court and the Court of Appeals in
this particular on habeas corpus."
The case presented by the record is not within any of the
exceptions to the general rule, that when a court has jurisdiction by law of the offence charged, and of the party who
is so charged, its judgments are not nullities which can be
collaterally attacked. The writ of habeas corpus cannot be
made to perform the functions of a writ of error. United
States v. Pridgeon, 153 U. S. 48. It follows that
The rule must be dischargedand the writ refused.

ZADIG v..BALDWIN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT
No. 222.

OF THE

STATE OF CALIFORNIA.

Argued and submitted March 19, 1897.-Decided

April 19, 1897.

There was printed in the record, as filed in this court, what purported to be
an extract from the closing brief of counsel presented to the Supreme
Court of the State, in which a Federal question was discussed, and it
was asserted orally at the bar here, that in the argument made in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.
Supreme Court of the State a claim under the Federal Constitution was
presented. Held, that such matters formed no part of the record, and
were not adequate to create a Federal question, when no such question
was decided below, and the record does not disclose that such issues
were set up or claimed in any proper manner in the courts of the State.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Edmund Tauszey for plaintiffs in error.
Xr. T. C. Van Ness for defendant in error submitted on

his brief.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

The action below was originally instituted in the Superior
Court of the State of California in and for the county of San
Francisco by the defendant in error to recover from plaintiffs
in error the sum of five hundred and ninety-five dollars, with

interest and costs. The complaint was in the ordinary form for
money had and received, and did not otherwise indicate the
the nature or character of plaintiff's alleged cause of action.
A demurrer to the complaint having been overruled, defendants filed an answer simply denying any indebtedness to the
plaintiff.
Upon the trial before the court without a jury, it developed
that the plaintiff based her right to recover upon section 26 of
article IV of the constitution of the State of California, which
provides as follows: "All contracts for the sale of shares of
the capital stock of any corporation or association on margin
or to be delivered at a future day, shall be void, and any
money paid on such contracts may be recovered by the party
paying it by suit in any court of competent jurisdiction."
The defendants were shown to be partners, engaged in business as stock brokers, and the amount claimed from them was
the aggregate of sums asserted to have been paid them from
time to time as margins upon purchases of stock for account
of the plaintiff.
The record clearly establishes that at the trial the validity
of the constitutional provision' referred to was assumed, and

ZADIG v. BALDWIN.
Opinion of the Court.

that the sole contention was whether or not the dealings
between the parties as shown by the evidence were of the
character prohibited by the state constitution. At the close
of the testimony for the plaintiff the defendants moved for a
non-suit upon the single ground "that it has not been shown
that there was any transaction in margins between the parties,
such as is inhibited by the constitution; there is no evidence
here showing what constitutes a margin contract, or that there
was any contract for the sale of stocks on margin between
plaintiff and defendants."
The court having rendered its decision in favor of the plaintiff, the defendants filed a motion for a new trial, and with it a
statement in conformity to the state practice, containing specifications of errors in law occurring at the trial and of particulars
in which the evidence was insufficient to sustain the decision, as
also specifications of the particulars in which the decision was
against law. Nowhere, however, in such motion or statement,
was any question raised as to the validity of the constitutioial
provision, nor was there contained therein any assertion
that rights of the defendants under the Federal Constitution were invaded. From the jhdgment entered an appeal
was taken to the Supreme Court of the State. That appeal
was heard in department 1 of the court, by which tribunal the
judgment was modified by excluding interest. The opinion
of the court, 104 California, 594, discloses that the questions
passed upon were solely those which were presented by the
record as brought up from the trial court. A petition was
subsequently filed for a rehearing of the case in banc, but the
application was denied. Thereupon the case was brought to
this court for review.
The errors assigned assert that section 26 of article IV of
the constitution of the State is repugnant to section 1 of the
Fourteenth Ame.ndment of the Constitution of the United
States and to section 8 of article I of the same instrument,
and that the decision of the Supreme Court of the State holding that the contracts between the parties constituted sales of
stocks on margins within the meaning of the state constitution impaired the obligation of a contract and was repugnant

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

to section 10 of article I of the Constitution of the United
States.
It is clear, however, that we have no jurisdiction to pass
upon the questions presented in these assignments, for the
reason that it nowhere appears in the record that the plaintiffs in error at any time questioned the validity, under the
Constitution of the United States, of the section of the state
constitution relied on to support the claim made against them,
or in any manner specially set up or claimed the protection of
any clause of the Constitution of the United States.
The contention that there was a Federal question raised
below finds its only support in the fact that there has been
printed in the record, as filed in this court, what purports to
be an extract from the closing brief of counsel presented to
the Supreme Court of the State, in which such a Federal
question is discussed, and it is asserted orally at. bar that in
the oral argument made in the Supreme Court of California
a claim under the Federal Constitution was presented. But,
manifestly, the matters referred to form no part of the record
and are not adequate to create a Federal question when no
such question was necessarily decided below, and the record
does not disclose that such issues were set up or claimed in
any proper manner in the courts of the State. Pim v. St.

Louis, 165 U. S. 273; Ohicago & Northwestern Railway v.
Chicago, 164 U. S. 454, 457; Dibble v. Bellingham Bay Land
Co., 163 U. S. 63, 70; Ansbro v. United States, 159 U. S. 695;
Sayward v. Denny, 158 U. S. 180, and cases there cited.
Dismissedfor want ofjuridiction.

