WINDETT v. UNION MUT-UAL LIFE. INS. CO. 581
Argument for Appellant.

WINDETT v. UNION MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE
COMPANY.
APPEAL

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 253. Argued March 31, April 1, 1892. -Decided April 18, 1892.
If a mortgagor, who has agreed by the terms of the mbrtgage that he will
pay all taxes, and that the mortgagee, In case of sale for breach of condition, shall be allowed all moneys advanced for taxes, or other liens or
assessments, with interest, neglects to pay taxes duly assessed, and the
land is duly sold for the non-payment of such taxes, and the validity of
the deed made to the purchaser is doubtful, the mortgagee, upon a bill
for foreclosure, is entitled to be allowed a sum paid by him to buy up the
tax titles, exceeding the amount of unpaid taxes and interest by a very
small part only of the penalties accrued.
An agreement to pay an attorney at law a retainer for professional services
which are never performed is not to be implied.

IN EQUITY, to foreclose a mortgage. The mortgagor having
failed to pay the taxes on the mortgaged premises, they were
sold for tax~s. The mortgagee bought in the tax titles from
the purchaser, and filed this bill to foreclose the mortgage.
The mortgagor set up in reduction of the mortgage 'debt a
claim for retainers as attorney at law of the mortgagee for
services never performed, and further contested the allowance
of the amount paid by the mortgagee to acquire the tax titles,
on the ground that the sales were void, by reason of non-compliance with the provisions of the Statutes of Illinois in this
respect. The master allowed the sum paid for the acquisition
of the tax titles, and disallowed the amounts claimed for retainer, allowing only amounts for services actually performed.
From the decree rendered on that basis the defendant appealed.
-Jfh. AtAhuwr IF. Vindett in person for appellant.
I. The tax titles, sales and deeds were unlawful, null and
void for want of the statutory notice to the occupants of the
property in possession. Gage v. -ani 1411U. S. 344.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

II. The tax titles held by Gage not being liens, or encumabrances, they did not impair the security, nor endanger the
title; consequently the outlay for the purchase of them was
unnecessary, and not authorized by the trust. Williams v.
Townsend, 31 N. Y. 411; Atwater v. Wfest, 28 N. J. Eq. 361;
Burnet v. Denistom, 5 Johns. Ch. 35 ; Anthony v. Anthony, 23
Arkansas, 479"; Dae v. MeEvers, 2 Cowen, 118; Rayplye v.
Prinee,4 Hill, 119.
III. Neither Gage claiming under tax deeds and titles, nor
the company as his assignee, is entitled to active relief in a
court of equity, even though the tax deeds were regular and
legal. Gage v. Bani, 141 U. S. 344.
IV. The taxes, having been satisfied by the sales, were
extinct, and were not a lien, charge or incumbrance on the
mortgaged property; and neither Gage, nor the company
as his assignee, could claim reimbursement from the landowner, the mortgagor, nor from the State. Smith v. Prall,
133 Illinois, 308.
V. The court had not jurisdiction in a chancery foreclosure to deal with the tax titles, or claims or with the
holder of them. Gage v. Perry,93 Illinois, 176; Bozarth v.
Sunders, 113 Illinois, 181; lciAlpin v.. Zitzer, 119 Illinois,
273.
VI. It was error to adopt and confirm the master's report.
The master exceeded his authority by the terms of the reference, which restricted him to the truth of the bill, and the
amount due on the note, and did not direct him to report conclusions as to the matters of defence, i.e. the questions as to the
alleged outlay to Gage, and the claims for professional services. These were judicial questions which the court could
not delegate to its ministerial officer. DeLemw v. Neely, 71
Illinois, 473 ; Mosier v. Norton, 83 Illinois, 519.
ilfr. P.S . Grow p and -Yr. J H. Drummond for appellee.
M.

JusTicE GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.

This was a bill in equity by a corporation of Maine against
a citizen of Illinois to foreclose a deed of trust, in the nature

WINDETT v. UNION MUTUAL LIFE INS. CO.

583

Opinion of the Court.

of a mortgage, of land in Chicago, made by the defendant to
the plaintiff on July- 12, 1869, to secure the'payment of his
note of that date for $7500, payable in five years, with interest at the rate of eight per cent; and containing covenants
that the premises were "free and clear of all liens and incumbrances," and that the mortgagor would "in due season pay
all taxes and assessments on said premises, and exhibit once
a year receipts of the proper persons to said party of the
second part, showing payment thereof;" and a power to sell
on any breach of condition, and out of the proceeds, after
paying all expenses, "including all moneys advanced for taxes,
insurance or other liens and assessments, with the interest
thereon at the rate of ten per cent per annum from the date
of payment, all which advances shall be-.secured by this.
trust," to pay the principal and interest of the note to the
mortgagee, and any surplus to the mortgagor.
This bill was filed February 10, 1882, after. default in payment of principal and interest of the mortgage debt. The
master, to whom it was referred to state the account between
the parties, reported that~there was due to the plaintiff the
sum of $20,556.11. The def6ndant excepted to the master's
report in two respects; and appealed from a final decree
rendered for the plaintiff in accordance with that report.
1. The defendant failed to pay the taxes assessed on the
land from 1869 to 1879, and the land was sold and conveyed
for non-payment of these taxes to Asahel Gage. The plaintiff's president urged the defendant to redeem the land from
the tax sales, (as he might, under the lRevised Statutes of
Illinois, c. 120, ยง 210, by paying the amounts for which the
land was sold, with interest at the rate of ten -per cent, and'
certain penalties,) and told him that otherwise the plaintiff
would be obliged to take steps t6 protect itself. The defendant promised to pay the taxes and interest, but insisted that
the tax deeds were void, for want of previous notice to the
tenants of Gage's purchases as required by c' 120, ยง 216, of
the same statutes. The defendant never paid the taxes, or
took any steps towards redeeming the land.. After waiting
two years, the plaintiff, on August 1, 1881, bought in Gage's

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

tax titles for the sum of $3750, which exceeded the amount of
unpaid taxes and interest by the sum of $300 only, equal to a
very small part of the penalties accrued. The master allowed
the plaintiff this sum of $3750, with interest at the rate of
ten per cent, amounting to $1809.24.
The defendant argued that the plaintiff could not be allowed
for the taxes, because they had been extinguished by the tax
sales and deeds; and could not recover on the tax titles, because their were void, and because equity would not enforce
them.
But the plaintiff did not set up the tax deeds as a ground
of suit, but only as evidence of clouds upon his title, arising
out of the mortgagor's own neglect to pay the taxes. It is at
least doubtful, upon the evidence, whether Gage did not give
notice to the tenants of the tax sales; and there is no evidence whatever of any invalidity ii the taxes, the sales or
the deeds, in any other respect.. In this state of things, the
mortgagee was not bound to take the risk of contesting the
tax titles, and the sums paid to extinguish those titles were
reasonable expenses chargeable to the mortgagor by the terms
of the mortgage.
2. The defendant, who is an attorney at law, claimed, by
way of set-off, the sum of $2500 for professional services, and
the further sum of $5000 for a general retainer by reason of
the president having, as the defendant testified, said that he
"1wished to engage him professionally in behalf of the company
with reference to fifteen or twenty cases, litigated or complicated cases, growing out of their foreclosure proceedings
and claims upon property."
The master allowed the defendant the sum of $600 for professional services actually rendered, and the evidence does not
satisfy us that they were worth more
The plaintiff's claim for a retainer for services in suits to be
brought in the future was rightly disallowed by the master.
No express agreement to pay a retainer was proved, and an
agreement to pay a retainer for services which are never performed is not to be implied.
.Decree affimed.

