OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

SHERLAN .v. GR'NI1TELL.
ERROR TO THE CIY COURT OF NEW YORK.
No. 245.

Argued and submitted March 25, 1892.

Decided April 4, 1892;

S. collected money from the Treasury of the United States as the attorney
at law of G., a former collector at the port of New York., Not paying it
over, the executors of G. brought suit against him in a state court in
New York, to recover this money. He set up in defence that the case
had been reopened by the, government, and that he feared he would be
compelled to repay it; and that no valid agency could exist by force of
the statutes of the United States to collect and pay over this money.
Both defences were overruled and judgment entered for plaintiff. A
writ of error was sued out to this court. HeZd, that no Federal question was involved in the decision of the state court.

THE court stated the case as follows:
This was an action brought by the executors of the estate of
Moses H. Grinnell, deceased, formerly collector of the port of
New York, in the City Court of New York against Roger M.
Sherman, to recover the sum of $1778.95 collected: from the
United States for plaintiffs' testator by defendant as his attorney.
An award by the Secretary of the Treasury in favor of Mr.
Grinnell for the sum in question, made May 2, 1885, was offered
in evidence on the trial, to which the defendant objected on
the ground that the jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Treasury to make the award had not been shown, and that it
appeared affirmatively on the face of the award that, the Secretary had no power to make it. This objection was overruled
and exception taken. Plaintiffs also put in evidence a copy
certified under the seal of the collector of customs for the
port of New York, of a paper, whereby Roger -M. Sherman
receipted to the collector for the sum in question as attorney
for the executors of Mr. Grinnell. Defendant objected to
the admission of this receipt in evidence on the ground that
the certification was insufficient, and also that the receipt purported to be part of the proceedings in the Treasury matter,

SR7HEA-W q. GRINNELL.
Statement of the/Case.

in respect of which no proof had been offered of the jurisdiction of the Secretary. The objection was overruled and exception taken.
The court made findings of fact and conclusions of law, and
among other things found that the 'lefendant as attorney for
the executors received the sum of $1778.95 from the Treasurer
of the United States on or about May 9,1885. On Tune 1,1885,
the executors made demand upon Sherman for the money, which
he refused to pay over, alleging that since the award the matter
had been reopened by the Secretary and was still in debate,
and evidence was offered on his behalf tending to show this,
and that the matter of the award had been sent to the Court
of Claims.
The City Court held that the defendant was estopped from
denying his clients' title after having collected the money for
them, and gave judgment for the amount claimed, with interest,
costs, &c., whereupon the defendant took the case by appeal to
the general term of the court, by which the judgment was
affirmed.
It was said in the opinion of the general term, delivered by
Hall, J.: " Defendant. seeks to justify his refusal to pay over,
by the claim that since the money was paid over to him the
matters out of which it arose or accrued have been reopened
by the government and referred to the Court of Claims, and
he fears that in case the award should be revoked he may be
compelled to repay the money to the government. Defendant's relations with plaintiffs were simply as attorney at law,
and, in fact, the money was paid by the government to them,
not to him; he was a mere conduit through which -it passed;
his receipt was their act, not his own; his acts were their acts
and binding upon them; the money was theirs, not his, and
he should have paid it over immediately upon its receipt.
Any ;claim which the government may have, now or hereafter, will be against plaintiffs, not against defendant. The
plaintiffs are estopped from claiming in any future proceeding
that they have not received the money, as it has been paid to'
the person authorized by tiem to receive it. It does not lie
with defendant to-assert that the money was wrongfully paid

200

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

over; he made and 'maintained the claim, and the money was
recovered as the result of his efforts. I have carefully exanined the elaborate and ingenious brief of defendant and
the numerous authorities cited, but I fail to discover their
applicability to the facts of this case. No new title, adverse
or superior to plaintiffs', is asserted in this case. No demand
has been made upon defendant to deliver the money over or
to withhold it from the plaintiffs, and no step contemplating or
looking towards a disturbance of plaintiffs' title was taken
until long after the money was demanded and should have
been paid over. It would seem almost preposterous to assert
that plaintiffs are bound to allow their money to lie in the
hands of their attorney until the initiation and conclusion of
some imaginary proceeding in behalf of the government.
The defendant stands in no different position from any other
custodian. of plaintiffs' money; it has been paid legally to
them and they have the right to control it. Defendant seems
to be much more tender of the interests of the United States
than its officers are. No claim has been made upon him by
the government; no notice has been given to him not to pay
over to his clients, and yet he seeks to hold the money for an
indefinite time until some one does make a demand upon him;
buthis first duty. is to his clients."
Defendant thereupon carried the case- by appeal to the
general term of the Court of Common Pleas for the city and
county of New York, and the judgment was again affirmed.
The record having been remitted to the City Court, the judgment of affirmance was made the judgment of that court, and
a writ of error was then sued out from this court.
Errors were assigned here to the effect as stated in the brief
of plaintiff in error that he specially claimed immunity from
this suit, because the subject of the suit was money of the
United States improperly paid from the Treasury by mistake
and contrary to law, in which these plaintiffs have no right,
'tle or interest; because the Secretary 6f the Treasury had,
b- fore suit commenced, set aside and vacated his award of
saad money; because defendant is a trustee for the United
States in respect to said money; and because no valid agency

* SHERKAN %'vGRI1NWLL.

201

OpInion of the Court.

existed or could exist by force of the statutes of the United
States, to collect, receive or pay over said money, under the
circumstances ; and that said claim was improperly overruled.
Also that he was improperly held to be estopped from asserting these matters; and that the receipt certified by the collector, w~s improperly received in evidence, because the
certiication was not by the head or acting chief officer for
the time being of a department of the government of the
United States. The admission of the award in evidence was
also questioned.
. .- Roger M. Sherman in person submitted for plaintiff in
error.
-Mr. Teadwell O7eveland (with whom was Mr1. Henry W.
Hardon on the brief) for defendants in error.
MR. CMMF JvsTIcE FuLLEH delivered the opinion of the
court.
There was no Federal question involved in the decision of
the City Court that the defendant was estopped from showing
that the moneys in question were paid out of the United
States Treasury under a mistake of.fact; that the Secretary
had vacated the award; or that no valid agency existed by
force of the statutes pf. the., United States to collect and pay
over these moneys.
The court did not pass upon the validity of any statute of
or authority exercised under the United States, nor decide
-against any title, right, ,.privilege or immunity specially set up
or claimed by' the defendant for himself under any statute of,
or commission held, or authority exercised under, the United
Stae.s. What he undertook to set up was a claim to the
funds made by the United States; and in respect to that his
contention was that the question of the award had been
opened, and that the matter had been referred to the Court

of Claim .
Tie court .simply decided that he'could not deny his clients'
title after having collected the money for them, and he as-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

signed as error that the court held that he was so estopped.
The ground upon which' the judgment rested was broad
enough to sustain it without deciding any Federal question,
if there were any in the case. As to the admission of the
award and of the, receipt in evidence, the rulings involved the
application either of the general or the local law of evidence,
and as such furnish no ground for our interposition. Hfew
Orleans v. Nfew Orleans Water Works Co., 142 U. S. 79;
Hammond v. Johnston, 142 U. S. 73.
_Dismissed.
The writ of error is

COLUMBIA AND PUGET SOUND RAILROAD
COMPANY v. HAWTHORNE.
ERROR

TO THE SUPREME COURT

OF THE TERRITORY OF

WASHINGTON.
240.

Argued March 24, 1892. -Decided

April 4, 1892.

The refusal to direct a'verdict for the defendant at the close of the plaintiffs evidence, and when the defendant has not rested his case, cannot
be assigned for error.
In an action for injuries caused by a machine alleged to be negligently
constructed, a subsequent alteration or repair of the machine by the
defendant is not competent evidence of negligence in its original construction.

THIS was an action brought in a district court of the Territory of Washington, against a corporation owning a saw-mill,
by a man employed in operating a machine therein, called a
trimmer, to recover damages for the defendant's negligence
in providing an unsafe and defective machine, whereby one of
the pulleys, over which ran the belt transmitting power to the
saw, fell upon and injured the plaintiff. The defendant
denied any negligence on its part, and averred negligence on
the part of the plaintiff.
At the trial, the plaintiff introduced evidence tending to
show that the pulley, weighing about fifty pounds, revolved
around a stationary shaft made of gas pipe, with nothing to

