BRENHAM v.' GERMA"T AMERICAN BANK.

173

Statement of the Case.

may have been done, it is a practical defeat of the intention
of Congress: It certainly demands,, and in this instance seems
to have received, a searching investigation. When we see
the most valuable portion of an immense domain, which has
been reserved by the beneficence of Congress for the benefit
of actual settlers, or of small proprietors, being gradually
absorbed by a few- speculators, we are forced to inquire
whether there is not a limit beyond which even a land patent
of the United States begins to lose something of its sanctity..
We think the decree of the court below dismissing the bill
should be reversed.

BRENIHAM v. GERMAN AMERICAN BANK.
ERROR TO THi

CIRCMT cour OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 120. Argued March 17, 1892.- Decided March 28, 1892.

Bonds were issued by the city of Brenham, in Texas, in July, 1879, payable
to bearer, to the amount of $15,000, under the assumed authority of an
act of Texas, passed in 1873, incorporating the city, and giving its council authority to borrow, for general purposes, not exceeding $15,000 on
the credit of the city; Held, that the city had .no authority to issue
negotiable bonds, and that, therefore, even a bona fide hblder of them
could not recover against the city on them or their coupons.
Power in a municipal corporation to borrow money not being nugatory
although unaccompanied by the power to issue negotiable bonds therefor,
it is easy for the legislature to confer upon-the municipality the power
to issue such bonds; and, under the well settled rule that any doubt as"
to the existence of such power ought to be determined against its existence, it ought not to be held to exist in the present case.
The cases on this subject reviewed; and Rogers v. Burlington, 3 Wall. 654,
and Mitchell v. Burlington, 4 Wall. 270, held'to be overruled.

Tis was an action against a municipal corporation to recover upon coupons cut from negotiable bonds issued by it.
Judgment below for plaintiff, to which this writ of error -was
sued out. The cause was first argued on the 14th of December, 1891. On the 26th of Tanuary, 1892, a reargument was

OCTOBER TERMI, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

ordered, which was had March 17. The case is stated in the
opinion.
-Mr. S. R. Fisher,for plaintiff in error, argued at the first
hearing, and at the second submitted on his brief.
.r. A. H. Garland,for defendant in error, argued at both
hearings. -Mr.]enry Sayles, for same, argued at the first hearing, and submitted on his briefat the second.

M . JusTicu BLATCHFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action at law, brought November 8, 1886, in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Western District of
Texas, by the German-American Bank, a New York corporation, against the city of Brenham, a municipal corporation of
the State of Texas, to recover $4175 and interest, on 504 coupons, amounting to $4175,-being 280 coupons for $2.50 each,
125 coupons for $5 each, 84 coupons for $25 each, and 15 coupons for $50 each, cut from 50 bonds for $50 each, 25 bonds
for $100 each, 14 bonds for $500 each, and 3 bonds for $1000
each, being all the bonds of the issue, $15,000 in-amount. The
bonds read as follows, except as to number and amount and
had the proper coupons annexed:
"UNITED
"STATE

OF TEXAs.

STATES OF AmERICA.

CiTyr

OF BPEN m.
.

"CITY OF BRENHAm BONDS.

"No.-.

$100.
"Bonds for General Purposes, $15,000.
"Twenty years after date, for value received, the city of
Brenham promises to pay to bearer one hundred dollars, with
interest at the rate of ten per cent per annum from date, payable semi-annually, on the first days of September and March
of each year, upon presentation of the proper coupon hereto
annexed, both principal and interest payable at the office of
the treasurer of the city of Brenham. This bond is redeemable by the city of Brenham after the expiration of ten years

BRENHAM v. GERMAf AMiERCAIN BANK.

175

Opinion of the Court.

from date hereof. This bond is authorized by an ordinance of
the city of Brenham, .approved June 7, A.D. 1879.
"In witness whereof, the mayor and secretary of
[L. s.]
the city of Brenham hereunto set their hands and
affix the seal of the city of Brenham, this 81st day 'of

July, A.D. 1879.
"0. H. CARLISLE, City,Sc'etay."
The ordinance referred to in the bonds is set forth in the
margin.'
1

An ordinance to provide for the issue and sale of fifteen thousand dollar s
in coupon bonds of the city, to borrow money for general purposes.
Be it ordained by the city c~uncil of the city of Brenham:
SEC. 1. That the mayor be, and is hereby, authorized and empowered to
have printed coupon bonds of the city of Brenham to the amount of fifteen
thousand dollars.
SEC. 2. Said bonds shall be three (3) of the denomination of one thousand dollars ($1000.00,) fourteen (14) of the denomination of five hundred
($500 jO) dollars, twenty-five (25) of the denomination of one hundred
($100.00) dollars, and fifty of the denomination of fifty ($50.00) dollars.
They shall be made payable to bearer twenty years after date, at the
office of the treasurer of the city of Brenham, with interest from date until
paid, at the rate of ten per cent per annum, payable semi-annually, on the
first days of September and March, at the offide of the treasurer of the city
of Brenham, but the city shall have the right to redeem said bonds at airy
time after five years from date.
SEC. 3. Said bonds shall be dated and interest begin to run on the first
day of -,
A.D. 18-, provided that should any of said bonds be sold at
a subsequent date the amount of interest then due shall be endorsed as a
credit on the coupons first due.
SEc. 4. Said bonds shall be signed by the mayor and countersigned by
the city clerk, and the seal of the city'shall be affixed, and they shall be numbered and'registered as Series 2, No. -, giving the number of the bond issued,
commencing with No. 1.
-:
SEC. 5. Coupons shall be attached to each of said bonds for each semiannual instalment of interest, which said coupon shall have printed thereto
•the signature of the mayor and the city clerk, and shall be received for general ad valorem taxes of the city.
SEC. 6. Said bonds shall be negotiated and sold by the mayor and the
finance committee of the city as the same may be required for general purposes, but in no case shall they be sold at a greater discount than five per

OCTOBER- TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

The original petition of the plaintiff alleged that the bonds
and coupons were issued, executed, sold and delivered, and
put in circulation under authority of the ordinance referred to.
The defendant, by its original answer, protested.against the
jurisdiction of the court, and raised the question of the bona
id ownership by the plaintiff of the coupons sued on, alleging that they were owned by one Mensing, a citizen of Texas,
and that the transfer of them by him to the plaintiff was
colorable only, and for the purpose of giving the court jurisdiction. The defendant at the same time demurred to the petition, specifying grounds of demurrer, and put in an answer to
the merits, setting forth that the city had a population of less
than 10,000 inhabitants, and was incorporated Februay f4,
1873, with powers limited by its charter and the constitution
of the State; that it had no power, on June 7, 1879, to pass
ordinance repugnant to the constitution and laws of the
Sjtte; that, under the constitution of the State of 1876, and
prior to the passage of the ordinance of June 7, 1879, cities
-and towns with a Populatio, of 10,000 inhabitants or less had
authority to collect an annual tax to defray only the current
expenses of local government, and were without power to borrow money, issue negotiable bonds therefor and collect taxes
for the payment of the same; that the city council had no
power,. on June 7, 1879, to pass the ordinance of that date;
that no bonds or coupons issued in pursuance thereof constituted any legal liability against the city; that the bonds were
issued in violation of the ordinance, in that the ordinance
1cent, and the proceeds thereof shall be placed in the treasury of the city to
the credit of the general fund.
SEc. 7. That there be, and is hereby, appropriated out of the general ad
valorem tax of the city one-eighth of one per cent, or so much thereof as
may be necessary, on the assessed value of the taxable property of the city,
as a special interest and sinking fund with which to pay the interest on
said bonds and liquidate the same, and said fund shall be kept separate
from the other funds of the city and shall be used for no other purpose.
Sm. 8. That this ordinance go into effect and have force from and after
its passage.
Approved June 7th, 1879.
P.
1.KER, Mayor.
Attest: C. H. CAniaJsi ., Secretary.

BRENHA

v. GERMANT AMERICAIN BANK.

17q

Opinion of the Court.

authorized the issuing of the bonds payable twenty years after
the date thereof, and to be redeemable, at the 6ption of the
.defendant, at any time after five years from their date; that
§ 4 of article 11 of the constitution provided that no municipal
corporation should become a subscriber to the capital stock of
any private corporation or association, or make any appropriation or donation to the same, or in anywise loan its credit;
that $3000 of the $15,000 of the bonds were for the benefit
of the fire department of the city, and the remaining $12,000
were in aid of the Gulf, Colorado and Santa F6 Railroad
Company, in providing for the purchase 9f the right of way
over the streets of the city and the purchase of depot ground,
to secure the construction of said railroad through the city;
that $12,000 of the bonds were sold by the city, $5000 to one
Mensing, and $'1000 to two other persons, 'and MMensing also
became the owner of those $7000 of bonds, and he and the.
other two purchasers bought the bonds with actual knowledge
of the purpose for which they were issued, as well: as record
notice of such illegal purpbse, as disclosed by the public records
and minutes of the city council; and that the plaintiff, if it
became the owner of the bonds and coupons, purchased 'the
coupons after their maturity and with knowledge of all the
facts attending their issue, well knowing that they were issued
to raise money to enable the defendant to purchase the said
right of way and depot ground for the said railroad company.
Afterwards, the defendant put in an amended answer, amending its former demurrers and answer, but not varying the
material allegations of fact contained in its former answer. The plaintiff then filed a supplemental petition, demurring
to the answers and excepting thereto by special allegations,
and also alleging matters of fact in response to the answers,
and averring that the defendant was authorized to 'issue the
bonds in question, and that, if their proceeds were misappropriated by the city council or the agents of the city, such misappropriation ought not to affect the rights of the plaintiff;
that the bonds were sold by the lawfily authorized agents of
the city, and it received full value for them; that the parties
from whom the plaintiff received the bonds were bonz fide
VOL cxLIrv-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1891
Opinion of the Court.

purchasers of them before .maturity, having paid a valuable
consideration therefor; and that the defendant was estopped
by the fact that it paid interest on the bonds without objection for three years after they were issued, and in 1884 published a statement of its financial condition, in which it included
said $15,000 of bonds as part of its legal liabilities, all of which
was made known to the plaintiff before it became the owner
of the bonds.
The defendant then filed a supplemental answer, demurring
to the supplemental petition and specially excepting to parts
of it, and raising an issue of fact as to its allegations.
The plea in abatement, or to the jurisdiction of the court,
was tried by a jury, which found for the plaintiff; and afterwards the issues of fact on the pleadings were tried by a jury,
which found a verdict for the plaintiff for $5510.10, and the
court entered a judgment overruling the general and special
demurrers and exceptions of the defendant, and the general
demurrer and exceptions of the plaintiff, and the special exceptions and demurrers of the defendant to the plaintiff's supplemental petition; and a judgment for the plaintiff was entered
for $5510.10 with interest and costs. To review this judgment
the defendant has brought a writ of error.
On the 4th of February, 1873, an act was passed by the
legislature of Texas, (Special Laws of Texas of 1873, c. 2, p. 2,)
incorporating the city of Brenham. By article 3, § 2, of that
act, (p. 14,) it is provided as follows: "Sec. 2. That the city
council shall have the power and authority to borrow for
general purposes not exceeding ($15,000) fifteen thousand
dollars on the credit of said city;" also, by article 7, § 1,
(p. 23,) as follows: "Sec. 1. Bonds of the corporation of the
city of Brenham shall not be subject to tax under this act."
At the date of the incorporation of the city and of the passage of the ordinance in question, the city had a population of
over 4000 and less than 10,000 inhabitants.
On the 28th of March, 1881, one Dwyer instituted the suit
in the District Court of Washington County, Texas, against
one Hackworth, assessor and collector of taxes of the city of
Brenham, to enjoin the collection of certain taxes levied by

BREINHAM v. GERMAN AMERICAN BAN{K.

179

Opinion of the Court.

the city council of the city and assessed against Dwyer, including as a part thereof one-eighth of one per cent to pay interest
and provide a sinking fund on the bonds of the city, the bonds
so referred to being the identical bonds which are involved in
tins suit. That case went to the Supreme Court of Texas, and
is reported as -Dwyer v. .acworth, 57 Texas, 245.
Various points are taken by the defendant as assignments
of error; but we consider it necessary to discuss only one of
them, the decision of which will dispose of the case.
The court charged the jury, among other things, (35 Fed.
Rep. 185,) that the power in the city to borrow money carried
with it the authority to issue the bonds, and that the defendant had capacity to issue the bonds in question-as commercial
paper, and bind itself to pay them and the coupons. The
defendant, by its demurrer to the plaintiff's petition, stated as
ground of demurrer that it did not appear from the petition
that the defendant was authorized by the constitution and
laws of Texas to issue the bonds and coupons. .The court
overruled such demurrer, and by a bill of exceptions it appears
that the defendant excepted to such ruling. The defendant
demurred also to the plaintiff's supplemental petition, on the
ground that that petition failed to show any authority in the
.defendant to issue the bonds and coupons. -This demurrer
was overruled, and it appears by a bill of exceptions that the
defendant excepted to the ruling. It also appears by a bill of
exceptions, that the defendant excepted to the charge that the
power of the city to borrow money carried with it authority
to issue the bonds, and that the city had the capacity t6 issue
the bonds as commercial paper, the ground of the exception
.being"stated to be that, under the constitution of Texas, the
expense of carrying out the _general governmental purposes of
the defendant was.to be defrayed by the levying of a tax and
not by issuing bonds, and that the bonds issued were not
authorized to be clothed with the incidents of commercial
paper.
The principal contention on the part of the defendant is thtit was without authority to issue the bonds, and that they
were void for all purposes and in the hands of all persons.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

This point is presented with -reference to the charter of 1873,
considered apart from the provisions of the constitution of
1876, and also with reference to the effect which the constitution had upon the power claimed under the charter.
A ticle 11, sections 3 to 7 inclusive, of the constitution of
Texas of 1876, provided as follows:
"SEc. 3. No county, city or other municipal corporation
shall hereafter become a subscriber to the capital of any private corporation or association, or make any appropriation or
donation to the same, or in anywise loan its credit; but this
shall not be construed to in any way affect any obligation
heretofore undertaken pursuant to law.
"SEC. 4. Cities and towns having a population of ten thousand inhabitants or less, may be chartered alone by general
law. They may levy, assess and collect an annual tax to
defray the current expenses of their local government, but
such tax shall never exceed, for any one year, one-fourth of
one per cent, and shall be .collectible only in current money.
And all license and occupation tax levied, and all fines, forfeitures, penalties, and other dues accruing to cities and towns,
shall be collectible only in current money.
"SEC. 5. Cities having more than ten thousand inhabitants
may have their charters granted or amended by special act of
the legislature, and may levy, assess and collect such taxes as
may be authorized by law, but no tax for any purpose shall
ever be lawful, for any one year, which shall exceed two and
one-half per cent of the taxable property of such city; and no
debt shall ever be created by any city, unless at the same time
provision be made t assess and collect annually a sufficient
sum to pay the intt-2est thereon and create a sinking fund of
at least two per cent thereon.
"SEC. 6. Counities, cities and towns are authorized, in such
mode as may now or -may hereafter be provided by law, to
levy, assess and collect the taxes necessary to pay the interest
and provide a sinking fund to satisfy any indebtedness heretofore legally made and undertaken; but all such taxes shall be
assessed and collected separately from that levied, assessed
aid collected for current expenses of municipal government,

BRENHAM v. GERMA"

AMERIOAN -BANK.

181

Opinion of the Court.

and shall when levied specify in the act of levying the purpose therefor, and such taxes may be paid in the coupons,
bonds or other indebtedness for the payment of which such
tax may have been levied.
"SEo. '[. All counties and cities bordering on the coast of
the Gulf of Mexico are hereby authorized, upon a vote of twothirds of the tax-payers therein, (to be ascertained as may be
provided bylaw,) to levy and collect such tax for construction
of sea-walls, breakwaters or sanitary purposes, as may be
authorized by law, and may create a debt for such works and
issue bonds in evidence thereof. But no debt for any purpose
shall ever be incurred in any manner by any city or county,
unless provision is made, at the time of creating the same, for
levying and collecting a sufficient tax to pay the interest
thereon and provide at least two per cent as a sinking fund,
and the condemnation of the right of way for the erection of
such works shall be fully provided for."
There is nothing in the charter of the defendant which
gives it any power to issue negotiable, interest-bearing bonds
of the character of those involved in the present case. The
only authority in the charter that is relied upon is the power
given to borrow, for general purposes, not exceeding $15,000
on the credit of the city. The power given to the defendant
by '§4 of article 11 of the constitution, the defendant having
a population of less than 10,000 inhabitants at the date of its
charter and at the date of the ordinance, was only the power
to levy, assess and collect an annual tax to defray the current
expenses of its local government, not exceeding, for any one
year, one-fourth of one per cent.
That in exercising its power to borrow not exceeding
$15,000 on its credit, for general purposes, the city could give
to the lender, as a voucher for the repayment of the money,
evidence of indebtedness in the shape of non-negotiable paper,
is quite clear; but that does not cover the right to issue
negotiable paper or bonds, unimpeachable in the hands of a
bonafide holder. In the present case, it appears that Mensing
bought from the defendant $5000 of the bonds at 95 cents on
the dollar, and that other $7000 of the bonds were sold by

OCTOBER TERM, 1891
Opinion of the Court.,

the city for the same price, it- thus receiving only $11,400 for
$12,000 of the bonds, and suffering a discount on them of
$600. The city thus agreed to pay $12,000, and interest
thereon, for $11,400 bprrowed. This shows the evil working
of the issue of bonds for more than the amount of money
borrowed.
It appears by the record that depot grounds in, and the
right of way through, the city of Brenham were bought for
the Gulf, Colorado and Santa F6 Railroad Company with
money realized from the sale of bonds issued under the ordinance of June 7,1879, and that $3000 of such bonds were used
by the city for fire department purposes.
The power to borrow the $11,400 would not have been
nugatory, unaccompanied by the power to issue negotiable
bonds therefor. .- errill v. .fonticello, 138 U. S. 673, 687;
Williams v. Davidsom, 43 Texas, 1, 33, 34; City of Cleburne
v. Railroad Company, 66 Texas, 461; 1 Dillon on Municipal
Corp. 4th ed. § 89, and notes; § 91, n. 2; § 126, n. 1; §§,507,
507 a.
The confining of the power in the present case to a borrowing of money for general purposes on the credit of the city,limits it to the power to borrow money for ordinary governmental purposes, -suchas are generally carried out with revenues
derived from taxation; and the presumption is that the grant
of the power was intended to confer the right to borrow
money in anticipation of the receipt of revenue taxes, and not
to plunge the municipal corporation into a debt on which
interest must be paid at the rate of ten per centum per annum,
semi-annually, for at least ten years. It is easy for the legislature to confer upon a municipality, when it is constitutional
to do so, the power to issue negotiable bonds; and, under the
well-settled rule that any doubt as to the existence of such
power ought to be determined against its existence, it ought
not to be held to exist in the present case.
A review of the cases on this subject in this court will be
useful.
In Rogers v. Burlington, 3 Wall. 654, 666, in 1865, it was
held that the statutory power granted to the city of Burling-

BRENHAM V. GERMAN AMERICAN BANK.

183

Opinion of the Court.

ton, Iowa, "to borrow money for any public purpose," gave
authority to the city to borrow money to aid a railroad company in building a road for public travel and transportation,
and that, as a means of borrowing money to accomplish such
object, the city might issue its bonds to be sold by the railroad company to raise the money. Bonds were issued and
loaned to the company. They were coupon bonds in the
usual form, and were secured by first-mortgage bonds of the
company. Suit was brought by a bona f&e holder for value,
to recover against the city on the coupons, and the case came
up on a demurrer to the petition. The demurrer was sustained by the Circuit Court and judgment rendered for the
city; but this court reversed that judgment. In the opinion
of this court, as to the power to issue the negotiable bonds, it
was said: "Common experience shows that the issuing of
bonds by a municipal corporation as material aid in the construction of a railroad, is merely a customary and convenient
mode of borrowing money to accomplish the object; and it
cannot make any' difference, so far as respects the present
question, whether the bonds, as issued by the defendants,
were sold in the market by their officers, or were first
delivered to the company, and were by their agents sold
for the same purpose." Chief Justice Chase and Justices
Grier, Miller and Field dissented. Justice Field delivered a
dissenting opinion, in which his three associates concurred,
and which stated, as to the authority of the city to issue the
bonds, that there was no such authority, either in the charter
of the city or in any other legislation of the State; that the
authority conferred was to borrow money; that no money
was borrowed, but the bonds of the city were loaned; and
that borrowing money and loaning credit were not convertible
terms.
In Xitched v. Burlington,4 Wall. 270,the case of -Rogersv.
Burlington, supra, was affirmed.
But in Police "ury v. Britton, 15 Wall. 566, (when Justices
Wayne, Nelson and Grier had left the bench, and Justices
Strong, Bradley and Hunt had come upon it, Chief Justice
Chase and Justices Clifford, .gwayne, Miller, Davis and Field

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

remaining,) it was held that the trustees or representative
officers of a parish, county or other local jurisdiction, invested
with the usual powers of administration in specific matters,
and the power of levying taxes to defray the necessary expenditures of the jurisdiction, have no implied authority to issue
negotiable securities, payable in future, of such a character as
to be unimpeachable in the hands of bona fide holders, for
the purpose of raising money or funding a previous indebtedness. In the opinion of the court, delivered by Mr. Justice
Bradley, it is stated that the police jury of the parish of
Tensas, Louisiana, which issued the negotiable bonds in question in that case, had no express authority to issue them; that
the power could not be implied from the ordinary powers of
local administration and police which were conferred upon
the boards and trustees of political districts; that it was one
thing for county and parish trustees to have the power to
incur obligations for work actually done in behalf of the
county or parish, and to give proper vouchers therefor, and a
totally different thing to have the power of issuing unimpeachable paper obligations, which might be multiplied to an
indefinite extent; and that, although the authority for such
bodies to issue negotiable paper might be implied in some
cases from other and express powers granted, those implications should not be extended beyond the fair inferences to be
gathered from the circumstances of each case.
In Claiborne County v. Brooks, 111 U. S. 400, it was held
that the power to issue commercial paper was foreign t. the
objects of the creation of the political divisions of counties
and townships, and was not to be conceded to such organizations unless by virtue of express legislation or by very
strong implication from such legislation.; and that the power
conferred by statutes of Tennessee upon a county, to erect a
court-house, jail and other necessary county buildings, did not
authorize the issue of commercial paper as evidence of or
security for a debt contracted for the construction of such a
buildi ng. The opinion in the case was delivered by Mr. Justice Bradley; and the case of Police Jwpy v. Britton, 15
Wall. 566, was cited and approve ,. although the unsuccessful

BRENHAM v. GERXIAI{ AMERICAN BANMK

185

Opinion of the Court.

party cited as authority the case of Rogers v. Burlington, 3
Wall. 654.
In Concord v. Robinson, 121 U. S. 165, it was held that a
grant to a municipal corporation of power to appropriate
moneys in aid of the construction of a railroad, accompanied
by a provision directing the levy and collection of taxes to
meet such appropriation, and prescribing no other node of
payment, did not authorize the issuing of negotiable bonds in
payment of such appropriation. The opinion of this court
was delivered by Mr. Justice Haalan, and the case of Claiborne
County v. Brooks, 111 U. S. 400, was cited and approved.
In -elley v. -Milan,127 U. S. 139, and -orton v. Dyersburg,
127 U. S. 160, it was held that the power granted to a municipal corporation to become a stockholder in a railroad company did not carry with it the power to issue negotiable bonds
in payment of the subscription, unless the latter power was
expressly or by reasonable implication conferred by statute.
In the opinion in the case of N~orton v. Dy.c r burg, the case of
Claiborne County v. Brook&, Il U. S. 400, was cited with
approval.
In Young v. Clarendo Township, 132 U. S. 340, it was
held to be settled law that a municipality has no power to
issue its bonds in aid of. a railroad, except by legislative permission; and in the opinion of the court, delivered by Mr.
Justice Lamar, the cases of Claiborne County'v. Brooks and
of eZky v. iloan were cited and approved.
In Hill v. _fferlhis, 134 U. S. 198, 203, the opinioii of the
court being delivered by Mr. Justice Field, it was held that
the power conferred by a statute on a municipal corporation
to subscribe .for the stock of a railroad company did not
include the power to issue negotiable bonds representing a
debt, in order to pay for that subscription; and it was said
that that rule was well settled. It was added: "The inability
of municipal corporations to issue negotiable paper for their
indebtedness, however incurred, unless authority for that purpose is expressly given or necessarily implied for the execution
of other express powers, has been affirmed in repeated decisions of this court;" and the cases of Police Jury v. Biitton,

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

Claiborne County v. Brooks, Felley v. .Milan and Young v.
Clarendon, Township were cited with approval.
In ferrill v. Jonticello, 138 U. S. 673, 687, 691, it was held
that the implied power of a municipal corporation to borrow
money to enable it to execute the powers expressly conferred
upon it by law, if existing at all, did not authorize it to create
and issue negotiable securities to be sold in the market and to
be taken by the purchaser freed from the equities that might
be set up by the maker; and that to borrow money, and to
give a bond or obligation therefor which might circulate in
the market as a negotiable security, freed from any equities
that might be set up by the maker of it, were essentially
different transactions in their nature and legal effect. In the
opinion of the court, which was delivered by Mr. Justice
Lamar, the cases of Police Jury v. Britton, Claiborne County
v. Brooks, Kelley v. .Milan, Young v. Clarendon Township
and -Hillv. .Memphis were cited with approval. It was added:
"It is admitted that the power to borrow money, or to incur
indebtedness, carries with it the power to issue the usual
evidences of indebtedness, by the corporation, to the lender
or other creditor. Such evidences may be in the form of
promissory notes, warrants, and, perhaps, most generally, in
that of a bond. But there is a marked legal difference between the power to give a note to a lender for the amount of
money borrowed, or to a creditor for the amount due, and
the power to issue for sale, in open market, a bond, as a commercial security, with immunity, in the hands of a bonaflde
holder for value, from equitable defences. The plaintiff in
error contends that there is no legal or substantial difference
between the two; that the issuing and disposal of bonds in
market, though in common parlance, and sometimes in legislative enactment, called a sale, is not so in fact; and that the
so-called purchaser who takes the bond and advances his
money for it is actually a lender, as much so as a person who
takes a bond payable to him in his own name."
The opinion then stated that the logical result of the doctrines announced in the five cases which it cited clearly
showed that the bonds sued on in the case of ferrill v. Xic-

BREIHAM v. GERIiAN AMtERICAN BANK.

18T

Opinion of the Court.

tice/lo were invalid, and added: "It. does not follow that,
because the town of Mjfonticello had the right to contract a
loan, it had, therefore, the right to issue negotiable bonds and
put them on the market as evidences of such loan. To borrow money, and to give a bond or obligation therefor which
may circulate in the market as a negotiable security, freed
from any equities that may be set up by the maker of it, are,
in their nature and in their legal effect, essentially different
transactions. In the present case, all that can be contended
for is, that the town had the power to contract a loan, under
certain specified restrictions and limitations. Nowhere in the
statute is there any express power given to issue negotiable
bonds as evidence of such loan. Nor can such power be implied, because the existence of it is not necessary to carryout any of the .purposes of the municipality. It is true that
there is a considerable number of cases, many of which are
cited in the brief of counsel for. plaintiff in error, which hold
a contrary doctrine. But the view taken by this court in the
cases above cited and others seems to us more in keeping
with the well recognized and settled principles of the law of
municipal corporations."
We, therefore, must regard the cases of Rogers v. Bur ngton and Xitchell v. BurZington, as ovexruled in the particular
referred to, by later cases in this court. See 1 Dillon's Miun.
Cor. 4th ed. §§ 50, 57 a.
The case of .Dwyerv..fHac1worth, 5T Tex. 245, is relied upon
-by the plaintiff. In that case, Dwyer; a taxpayer, brought
suit against°Ifackworth, assessor and collector of taxes of the
city of Brenham, to enjoin the collection of certain taxes.
assessed against Dwyer, to pay the interest on the bonds.
involved in the present suit. In the District Court of Washington County, Texas, in which the suit was brought, the
defendant had judgment, sustaining the legality of the taxer.
and dismissing the plaintiff's suit. The case was carried by
the plaintiff to the Supreme Court of Texas, and in the opin-.
ion of that court it is said that the city of Brenham had
authority under its charter to borrow money for general purposes, "and did so b'orrow, by selling its bonds, to the amount

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

of $15,000." This expression is urged by the plaintiff as
recognizing the lawfulness of the issue of the bonds; but the
court, while reversing the judgment below, said that it could
not enjoin the collection of the taxes on the ground of the
invalidity of the bonds, without making the holders of those
bonds parties to the suit, citing Board v. Railway Co., 46
Texas, 316. There was, therefore, no adjudication in that
case as to the validity of the bonds, and the remark of the
court that the city borrowed money by selling its bonds to
the amount of $15,000 is of no force on the question of the
validity of the bonds. lewis v. City of Shreveport, 108 U. S.
282, 287.
It is also to be remarked that the ordinance of June 7,
1879, provided that the city should have the right to redeem
the bonds "at any time after five years from date," while
each bond on its face states that it is redeemable by the
city "after the expiration of ten years from date hereof."
The officers of the city had no power to depart from the
terms of the ordinance by varying the time limited for redemption.
We see nothing in the provisions of the constitution of
Texas of 1876, before cited, to aid the power of the city to
issue these negotiable bonds.
We cannot regard the provision in the charter of the city,
that bonds of the corporation of the city "shall not be subject to tax under this act," as recognizing the validity of the
bonds in question. Whatever that provision may mean, it
cannot include bonds unlawfully issued.
As there was no authorityto issue the bonds, even a bonafide
holder of them cannot have a right to recover upon them or
their coupons. Marsh v. Fulton County, 10 Wall. 676; East
Oakland v. Skinner, 94.U. S. 255; Buchanan v. Iitehflel,
102 U. S. 278 ; Hayes v. Holly Springs, 114 U. S. 120; Daviess
Coirnty v. Dickinson, 117 U. S. 657; Hopper v. Covington,
118 U. S. 148, 151; ferrill v. Monticello, 138 U. S. 673, 681,
682.
As the action here is directly upon the coupons, and there
is no right of recovery upon them, the judgment must be

BRENHA

v. GERMAN AMERICAN BANK.

189

Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Brewer, Brown, JJ.

Reversed, and the case remanded to the Circuit court, with
a direction to sustain the defendant's general demurrer
and &peialdemurrer and exceptions to the'plaintiff's
originalpetition, and to sustain the gecialexceptions and
demurrers of the defendant to the plaintiff's svuppkementat
petition, and to enter judgment thereqn in favor of the
defendant and dismissing both of 8aid
4petitions, with a
generaljudgmentfor the defendlant. [See p. 549,,post.]

Mu. JusTICE HiRLAN, with whom concurred M.
BREWvF, and MR. JusTIoE BRowN, dissenting.

JusTICE

Mn. JusTcE BR.EvEFR,
JusTicE BRoWN and myself being
unable to concur in the opinion just rendered, the grounds of,
our dissent will be stated.
The charter of the city of Brenham, granted in 1873, provided that "the city council shall have the power and authority
to borrow,for geneial puwposes, not exceeding fifteen thousand
dollars, on the credit of said city;" also, that the "bonds of the
corporation of the city of Brenham shall not be subject to tax
under this ait." Special Laws of Texas, pp. 14 and 23.
Under the authority conferred by this charter the city council in 1879 passed an ordinance, entitled, "An ordinance to
provide for the issue and sale of fifteen thousand dollars in
coupon bonds of the city, to borrow money for general purposes." Bonds, negotiable in form, and to the full amount
authorized by the ordinance, were issued by the city in 1879,
and the coupons held by the German-American Bank were
from the bonds so issued. The court does not hold thab the
issuing of these 1onds was in violation of the constitution of
Texas adopted in 1876. But it does hold that, while the city'
under its power to borrow, could give to the lender non-negotiable paper as a "voucher" for the repayment of the money
borrowed, it could not legally issue negotiable instrunnents
or bonds as evidence of the loan. This view is conceded to
be in conflict with Rogers v. Burlington, 3 Wall. 654, and
_AitchelZ v. Burlington,4 Wall. 270. But it is said that later

190

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Brewer, Brown, JJ.

adjudications of this court have, in effect, overruled those
cases. We cannot give our assent to the doctrine announced
in the pres6nt case. Nor - we submit with some confidence
-is
that doctrine sustained by any decision of this court
which has been cited.
What was the case of Rogers v. Burlington? Besides the
general powers appertaining to municipal corporations, the
city of Burlington had express power, by its charter, "to borrow money for any public purpose," the matter being first
submitted to popular vote. The people having voted, by the
requisite majority, in favor of issuing and lending $15,000 in
the bonds of the city to a particular railroad company, bonds
for that amount, negotiable in form, were issued. The court
held the construction of a railroad to be a public purpose,
within the meaning of the charter of the city, and that it
made no difference whether the bonds were sold in the market
by the officers of the municipality, or were first delivered to
the company and sold by its agents for the same purpose.
"Technically speaking," the court observed, "it may be said
that the transaction, as between the company and the defendants, was, in form, a contract of lending; but as between
the defendants and the persons who purchased the bonds in
the market it was undeniably a contract of borrowing money;
and the same remark applies to the transaction in its practical
and legal effect upon all subsequent holders of the securities
who have since become such for value, and in the usual course
of business."
The minority dissented, not upon the ground that an express
power in a municipal corporation to borrow money did not
give authority to execute negotiable instruments for the
money borrowed - although that question was upon the very
face of the case -but upon the ground that the transaction
was not one of borrowing money. Mr. Justice Field, speaking for the minority, said: "Here the authority conferred is
to boi-row money; yet no money was borrowed, but the bonds
of the city were lent. Borrowing money and lending credit
are not convertible terms. The two things which they indicate are essentially distinct and different." Mr. Justice Mil-

BRENHAM v. GERMAN AMERICAN BANK.

191

Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Brewer, Brown, JJ.

ler, in a separate dissenting opinion, called attention to the
fact that the Supreme Court of Iowa had then recently held
the bonds, involved in that suit, to be void, upon the ground
that the transaction "was a loan of credit, and not a borrowing of money." The principle announced in Rogers v. Burlingtom was applied in 3itchell v. Burlington, 4 Wall. 270.
The cases, decided since Rogers v. Burlington, which have
been cited, in the opinion of the court, as announcing the
doctrine that an express power given to a municipal corporation to borrow money does not authorize the execution of
negotiable instruments for the money so borrowed, are:
Police Jury v. Britton, 15 Wall. 566, 570, 572; Claiborne
County v.. Brooks, 111 U. S. 400, 406; Concord v. Robinson,
121 U. S. 165, 167; XYeZley v.' .Mrilan, 127 U. S. 139, 150;
fYorton v. -Dyersburg,127 U. S. 160, 175; Young v. Clarendon, 132 U. S. 340; Hill v. .emphis, 134 U. S. 198, 203; and
.AXerrill v. ]Monticello, 138 U. S. 673, 686, 687.
In Police Jury v. Britton, it appeared that a police jury, in
a parish of Louisiana, charged with the supervision and repair
of roads, bridges, causeways, dikes, levees and other highways, was prohibited by statute from contracting any debt or
pecuniary liability without fully providing in the ordinance
creating the debt the means of paying the principal and interest of the debt so contracted. And the question arose as to
whether it could rightfully issue negotiable bonds to take the
place of certain orders previously given by it for work done
on levees in the parish. The case involved no question as to
the scope and effect of an exp ess power in the parish to borrow money. Mr. Justice Bradley, speaking for the court,
after observing that the police jury had no express authority
to issue bonds, and that, if it. existed, it must be implied from
the general powers of local administration with which they
were invested, said: "We have, therefore, the question directly
presented in this case wl~ether the trustees or representative
officers of a parish, county or other local jurisdiction, invested
with the usual powers of administration in specific matters,
and the power of levying taxes to defray the -necessary expenditures of the jurisdiction, have an implied authority to

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Brewer, Brown, JJ.

issue negotiable securities, payable in future, of such a character as to be unimpeachable in the hands of bona J!de holders,
'for the purpose of raising money or funding a,previous indebtedness ?" This question was answered in the negative. But,
to prevent ann:possible misapplication of the principles announced, the court said: 1 We do not mean to be understood
that it requires, in all cases, express authority for such bodies
to issue negotiable paper. The power has frequently been

imnplied from other express powers granted. Thus, it has been
held that the power to borrow money implies the power to
issue the ordinary securities for its repayment, whether in the
form of notes or bonds ayable in future."

It thus appears

that Police Jury v. Britton distinctly declares that case not
to be within the rule that an express power to borrow money
caxries with it authority to issue negotiable securities for the
amount borrowed.
In Claiborne County v. Brooks, the question was whether
the power in a county to contract for the erection of a courthouse implied authority to issue negotiable bonds of a commercial character in payment for the work. •The court,
speaking again by Mr. Justice Bradley, held that it did not,
and said: "Our opinion is, that mere political bodies, constituted as counties are, for the purpose of local police and
administration, and having the power of levying taxes to defray all public charges created, whether they are or are not
formally invested with corporate capacity, have no power or
authority to make and utter commercial paper of any kind,
unless such power is expressly c6nferred upon them by law,
or clearly impliedfrom some other power expressly given, which
cannot befairly exercised without it" - referring to the same

clauses in the opinion in Police Jrryv. Britt~n, above quoted,
as embodying a distinct expression of the views of the court.
In Concord v. Robinson, it was decided that "the grant to
a municipal corporation of power to appropriatemoneys in aid
of the construction of a railroad, accompanied by a provision
directing the levy and collection of taxes to meet such appropiiation, and prescr~iingno other mode of payment," did not

imply authority to issue negotiable bonds on account of such

BRENHKA-

zY. CAlWMLAN AMERICAN BANK.

193

Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Brewer, Brown, JJ.

.appropriation; in
elley v. .ilan, that ".a municipal c6rporation, in order to exercise. the power of becoming a stoclholder
in a railroad corporation,.must have such power expressly
conferred -uponit by a grant from the legislatur6, and that
even the power to subscribe for such stock does not carry with
it the pgwer to issue negotiable bonds in payment of the sub-.
scription,'unless the power to issue such bonds is expressly or
by reasona le implication coiferred by statute;" in iforton v.
Dyersburg, that "the mere authority given to a municipality
to .subaribefor stock in a railroad company'didiiot carry with
it the implied power-to issue bonds therefor, especially where,
as in the present case, special provisions were mnade for paying
the subscription by taxation ;" in Young v. Clarendon Townshij, authority to make the'municipal bonds there involved
was conceded, and the case turned upon the question, whether
thei execution was not subject to the restrictions and directions of the act which authorized them to be issued; and in
Hill v. .Memphis, that "the power to. subscribefor stock does
not of itself include the" power to issue bonds of a town in
payment of it," and that "the inability of municipal corporations to issue negotiable paper for their indebtedness, however
incurred ,iuless authority for that purpose is expressly given
or necessarly imylied for the exeouion? of other exwress powers,
has been approved in repeated decisions of this court."
It thus appears that in no 'one of the above cases, decided
since. Rogers v. Burlingtoni was there any question as to
negotiable securities being issued under an .expres power to
borrow money; and .that some of them concede that such a'
pqwer carries. with it authority to give a negotiable paper for
money borrowed.
The case which seems to be inuch relied upon to support
the present judgment is 3ferrill v. -Monticello. But we'submit that it does. not sustain the broad 4octrine that negoiable
securities may not be issued in execution of an* ezpress power
to borrod money.' What could or could not be done, under
such a power, was not a question involved in that case. The
question was whether authority in the town of Monticello to
issue negotiable bonds could be invplied, not from an express,
VOL. CXLIV-13

OCTOBER TERf, 1891.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Brewer, Brown, J.

but from an implied power to borrow money. After observing that, under the laws of Indiana, the proposition that a
town has an implied authority to borrow money, or contract
a loan, under the conditions, and in the manner expressly prescribed, was not to be controverted, the- court, speaking by
Mr. Justice Lamar, said: "But this only brings us back to the
question, Does the implied power to borrow money or contract
a loan carry with it a further implication of power to issue
funding negotiable bonds, for that amount, and"sell them i4
open market? " The question in that case, as franed by the
court, clearly shows that it was only considering whether an
authority in a municipal corporation to issue negotiable securities could be implied from a power to borrow which was itself
to be implied from other powers granted. This, also, appears
from the following clause in the opinion: "It is admitted that
the power to borrow money, or to incur indebtedness, carries
with it the power to issue the usual evidences of indebtedness,

by the corporation, to the lender or other creditor.

Such evi-

dences may be in the form of promissory notes, warrants,and
perhaps, most generally, in that of a bond." And it is further

shown by the fact that the opinion, referring to the clause
in Police Jury v. Britton, above quoted, which states that
authority in a municipal corporation to issue negotiable securities may be implied from an express power to borrow money,
states that it has no application to the case then before the
court, in which the attempt was made to imply authority to
issue negotiable bonds simply from an imTlied power to borrow money.

Another case in this court, not referred to, is very much in
point.

It is City of Savannah v. Kelly, 108 U. S. 184, 190.

A railroad corporation, whose principal and beginning point
was that city, issued its negotiable bonds upon which to raise
money to pay debts for construction, and for future improvements. The city, owning some of the capital stock of the corporation, guaranteed the payment of those bonds. The bonds,
so guaranteed, were put upon the market and sold. The question was as to the authority of the city to make this guaranty
under the power conferred upon it by an act of the legislature,

BRENHAM v.- GERMA ATA ERICAN BANK.

195

Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Brewer, Brown, JJ.

"to obtain money on loan, on the faith and credit of said city,
for the purposes of contributing to works of internal improvements." Mr. Justice Matthews, speaking for the court, said
that the fact that the money "was not advanced directly to
the city, but, lapon its assurance of repayment, to the railroad
company, is not a departure even from the letter of the law,
much less from its meaning; nor does the fact that the money
was advanced partly on the credit of the railroad company
diminish the presumed reliance of the purchaser upon that of
the city, with which it was joined. It is difficult to conceive
of language more comprehensive than that employed, to embrace every form of security in which he faith and credit of
the city might be embodied; and that in such cases it is not
important to the character of the transaction that the money
is obtained in the first instance by the railroad company, upon
the credit of the city, was, directly ruled in Rogers v. Burlington, 3 Wall. 651, and affirmed in Town of Venice v. .urdock,
92 U. S. 49." Of course, if the city of Savannah, having the
power "to obtain money on loan," could guarantee negotiable
bonds, issued by the railroad company for the purpose of raising money to be contributed to works of internal improvement in which the city was interested, the city could have
made the loan directly upon its own negotiable bonds.
It is, perhaps, proper to say that our views find support in
the admirable commentaries of Judge Dillon on the Law of
Municipal Corporations. The court refers to sections 507 and
501 a of those Coiimentaries. But those sections do not, in
any degree, support the conclusion reached in this case. The
doctrine which the learned author declares, in those sections,
to be alike unsound and dangerous, is, "that a public or municipal corpbration possesses the impliedpower to borrow money
for its ordinary purposes, and as incidentalthereto the power
to issue commercial securities, that is, paper which cuts off de-.
fences when it-is in the hands of a holder for value acquired
before it is due." But Judge Dillon, while agreeing that the
power.to issue commercial paper, unimpeachable in the hands
of a. bona ftde. holder, is not among the ordinary ineidental
powers of a public municipal corporation, and must be con-

OCTOBER TERM

1891.

Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Brewer, Brown, JJ.

ferred expressly, or by fair implication, says, after a careful
review. of the authorities: "1-Expresspower to borrow money,

perhaps, in all cases, but especially if conferred to effect
objects for which large or unusual sums are required, as, for
example, subscriptions to aid railways and other public improvements, will ordinarily be taken, if there be nothing in
the 1egislation'to negative the inference, to include the power
(the same as if conferred upon a corporation organized for
pecuniary profit).to issue negotiable paper with. all the incidents of negotiability." 1 Dillon's :un. Corp. § 125, 4th ed.
It is eminently just to apply that rule in the present case,
because the act giving the city of Brenham authority to borrow, not exceeding $15,000, for general purposes, expressly
provided that its bonds should not be subject to tax under that
act. Such a provision could have had reference only to negotiable bonds, which wod be put upon the market for the
purpose of raising money.
It seems to us that the court, in the present case, announces
for the first time that an express power in a municipal corporation, to borrow money, for corporate or general purposes, does
not, under any circumstances, carry with it, by implication, authority to execute a negotiable promissory note or bond for the
money so borrowed, and that any such note or bond is void in
the hands of a bon)Ftde holder for value. There are, perhaps,
few municipal corporations anywhere that have not, under
some circumstances, and within prescribed limits as to amount,
express authority to borrow money for legitimate, corporate
purposes. While this authority may be abused, it is often vital
to the public interests that it be exercised. But if it may not
be exercised by giving negotiable notes or bonds as evidence
of the indebtedness so created -which is the mode usually
adopted in such cases -the power to borrow, however urgent
the necessity, will be of little practical value. Those who have
money to lend will not lend it upon mere vouchers or certificates of indebtedness., The aggregate amount of negotiable
notes and bonds, executed by municipal corporations, for legitimate purposes, under express power to borrow money simply,
and now outstanding in every part of the country, must be

RICE v. SANGER.
Opinion of the Court.

enormous. A declaration by this court that such notes and
bonds are void, because .of the absence of express legislative
authority to execute negotiable instruments for the money borrowed, will, we fear, produce incalculable mischief. Believing
the doctrine announced by the court to be unsound, upon
principle and authority, we do not feel at liberty to withhold
an expression of our dissent from the opinion.

RICE v. SANIGER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
No.1400.

Submitted March 21, 1892. -Deci.ded

March 28,1892.

The judgment of the Supreme Court of a State iii a case which is remanded
by that court to the trial court and retried there, is not a final judgment
which can be reviewed by this court.
MOTION TO DISMISS.

The case is stated in the opinion.

.Mr. Wiliam A. .ocKenney
the motion.

and -YM.cT D.

cOleverty for

Mr&. E. F. Ware opposing.
Tim CHnEF JUSTICE : This was an action commenced by one
Rice against Sanger et al. in the District Court of Bourbon
County, Kansas, wherein judgment was rendered February
27; 1888, in favor of plaintiff. The cause was thereupon
taken by the defendants to the Supreme Court of that State,
the judgment reversed, and the cause remand-A for further
proceedings in accordance with the views of the court as
expressed in its written opinion. ' To review this judgment, a
writ of error from this court was allowed, but after that, the
case went back to the state district court in accordance with
the mandate of the Supreme Court, and was subsequently
tried therein.
The judgment attempted to be brought here was not a fnal
judgment, and the writ of error is
Diemissed.

