OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Syllabus.

general .charge no exceptions were taken. Eighteen special
instructions were asked, and in respect to them the bill of
exceptions states: "The court did not charge either of said
requests except as he had charged. For the refusal of the
court to charge in the specific language of said hereinbeforerecited requests, the defendant's counsel then and there duly
excepted." In this way only is any exception taken to the
matter of the instructions. But this wholesale exception is
not sufficient. Connecticut iMJutual Life Ins. Go. v. 1Tnion
T'ust Co., 112 U. S. 250; Burton v. West Jer.sey Fery

Co.,

1i4 U. S. 4174:
These are the only matters presented for our consideration.
The judgment will be
ned.,

_______Affl

BELFORD v. SORIBNER.
APPEAL FROX THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 226.

Submitted March 24, 1892. -Decided

April 11, 1892.

In an equity suit for the infringement of a copyright, where the defendant
appeals from the final decree, if exceptions were taken to the report of
a master in favor of the plaintiff, it is the duty of the appellant to bring
the exceptions into this court, as part of the record; and, if he took no
exceptions, the report stands without'eiception.
Where the authoress of a book was a married woman, the copyright of
which was taken by her assignee as proprietor, it was held, that, inasmuch as she settled, from time to time,' with the proprietor, for her
royalties, the court would presume that her legal title as author was
duly vested in such proprietor, and that long acquiescence, by all parties, in such claim of proprietorship, was enough to answer the suggestion of the husband's possible marital interest in the wife's earnings.
If the husbahd was entitled to any part of the wife's earnings, that was a
matter to be settled between the husband and the proprietor, and ceuld
not be interposed as a defence to a trespass on the rights of'the proprietor of the copyright.
The proof showed that the title to the book was vested in th6 plaintiff, and
that the copyright was secured by him in accordance with lav. .
Under ยง 4956 of the Revised Statutes, it is sufficient if the two printed

BELFORD v.- SCRIBNER.
Statement of the Case.
copies of the book are deposited with the Librarian of Congress the day
before its publication.
A certificate of the Librarian of Congress as to the day of the receipt by him
of the two copies is competent evidence, though not under seal.
The finding by the Circuit Court that a certified copy of copyright had been
theretofore filed as proof and lost, is sufficient evidence of that fact to
sustain an order granting leave to file a new certified copy in its place,
there being nothing in the record to control such finding.
As two of the defendants printed the infringing books by contract with the
third defendant, -who published and sold them, and as, under ยง 4964 of
the Revised Statutes, both the printer and the publisher are equally liable
to the owner of the copyright for an infringement, and as the sum decreed
was ,found to be the profit shown to have been made by the defendants
from the defendants' infringement, the two defendants who did the
printing were held to be sharers in the profits so realized from the sales,
-profits.
and to be properly chargeable with such
The matter and language in the infringing books being the same as the
plaintiff's in every substantial sense, but so distributed through such
books as to make it almost impossible to separate the one from the
other, the entire profits realized by the defendants must be given to the
plaintiff.

THE court stated the case as follows:
This is a suit in equity, brought on the 18th of January,
1884, in the Circuit Court of the United States for the iNorthern District of Illinois, by Charles Scribner, a citizen of lNew
York, against Belford, Clarke & Co., an Illinois corporation,
and Michael A. Donohue and William P. Kenneberry, citizens
of Illinois.
The bill alleges that the plaintiff is a publisher and bookseller, doing business under the name of Charles Scribner's
Sons, in the city of N'ew York; that from a time previous to
April 1, 1871, and ever since .then, one Mf. Virginia Terhune,
the wife of Edward P. Terhune, a citizen of Massachusetts,
has been and now is an authoress, who has written and pubMarion Hariand;"
lished various works under the name of "M
that about April 1, 1871, she, being then and ever since a
citizen of the United States, became the authoress and compiler of a work or manuscript entitled 11Common Sense in the
Household; A Manual of Practical Housewifery, by Marion
Harland;" that said work was made -up and composed of

OCTOBER TERM,- 1891.
Statement of the Case.

receipts for cooking foods and fruits, preserving meats, vegetables, and fruits, and preparing drinks, and many other
receipts for the sick-room and nursery, and contained much
other instruetive and valuable matter and information for
household and family purposes; that all such receipts, information, instruction and material were selected and arranged
with great care and labor, and embodied and written in the
style, -words and language of said lady, and she was the original inventor and author of most of the written matter contained in said work, and with great labor and care had selected
and compiled the remainder thereof, and was the original
compiler ahd author of all of said work and of the arrangement of the topics and index, thereof; that prior to the publication of said work, and on or about April 1, 1871, Charles
Scribner, since deceased, and three other persons, named Armstrong, Seymour and Peabody, all being citizens of the United
States, and publishers and booksellers residing and doing business in the city of New York, under the firm name of Charles
Scribner & Co., by an agreement with the said lady, undertook and became interested in, and assumed the risk and
responsibility of, the publication of said work; that such
agreement was duly entered into in the city of New York,
and was to be performed'in the State of New York by the
parties thereto, and by the laws of that State the said lady,
being a married woman, was authorized and empowered to
enter into and execute the said contract in the same manner
and to the same extent as if she had been a feme sole; that
thereafter and prior to the publication of the work, and in or
about May, 1871, the said copartuers, under the firm name of
Charles Scribner & Co., secured, according to the laws of the
United States, a copyright of said work, as proprietors thereof;
that thereafter, said finn printed, published and sold the work
under the aforesaid name, at reasonable prices, until the death
of said Charles Scribner and the formation of the firm of Scribner,, Armstrong & Co., and the transfer of all their interests in
the said copyright and agreement with said lady to the latter
firm; that on or about February 10, 1872, John Blair Scritner,
a son of Charles Scribner, deceased, and the said Armstrong

BELFORD v. SCRIBNER.
Statement of the Case.

dnd Seymour, all being citizens of the United States and residing in New York, and publishers and booksellers doing business in the city of New York under the firm, name of
Scribner, Armstrong & Co., succeeded to the business and
became the owners of. the property, good-will and trade of
the firm of Charles Scribner & Co.; including the said copyright and the agreement between said finm and the said lady,
and by virtue thereof *became interested in and. assumed the
risk and responsibility of the publication and iale of said work,
and continued to supply the public with copies of the same at.
reasonable prices, until the dissolution of the firm, in 1878,
and the formation of the firm of Charles Scribner's Sons, and
the transfer to the latter firm of all interest in said copyright
and agreement; that on or about June 11, 1878, John Blair,
Scribner and the plaintiff, sons of said Charles Scribner,
deceased, citizens of the United States, and publishers and
booksellers, doing business in'the city. of New York, under
the firm name of Charles Scribner's Sons, succeeded to and
became the owners of the property, business, good-will and.
trade of the firm of Scribner, Arn strong & Co.,. including the
said copyright and the. agreement with said lady, and by
virtue thereof became interested, in and assumed the risk and
xsponsibility of the publication and sale of the said 'vork, and
continued to supply the. public, with copies of the same at
reasonable prices, until the death of John Blair Scribner, in
1879, and the transfer to the plaintiff, of all the property,.
business, good-will and trade of the firm, including said eopyright and agreement; that on the death of John Blair Scribr
ner, in 1879, the plaintiff, under the firm name of *Charles
Scribner's Sons, succeeded to and bec mie the owner of the
property, business, good-wilt and trade of the firm, including
said copyright and agreement, and assumed the risk and
responsibility of the publication, and sale of said work, and
continued to supply the public with copies of the same at,
reasonable prices, until the publication and sale, hereinafter
mentioned, of the new and revised edition of said work
lwere
made; that, under the statutes of the State of New York, the*
plaintiff, upon the death of John Blair Scribner, was entitled

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

to the continued use of the copartnership name of Charles
Scribner's Sons, and has carried on the business under that
firm name; that by reason of the publication of nearly 100,000
volumes of said work, the stereotype plates had become worn
and the impressions therefrom sometimes faint and illegible;
that the authoress, in or about 1880, prepared a revised edition
of her work, making many corrections and additions; that
,prior to the taking out of a copyright therefor, and on or
about September 8, 1880, the plaintiff, by an agreement with
said authoress, became interested in and assumed the risk and
responsibility of the publication of the new, revised and. enlarged work; and that, on or about September 18, 1880, under
the firm name of Charles Scribner's Sons, he secured, according to law, a copyright of said new work as proprietor thereof,
under the same title, and published said new work, and supplied the public with copies of the game at reasonable prices.
The bill then alleges that the defendant Belford, Clarke &
Co., printers, publishers and booksellers doing business at
Chicago, Illinois, and' the defendants Donohue and Henneberry, printer and bookbinders doing business at said, Chicago
under the firm name of Donohue & Henneberry, well knowing
the plaintiffs rights, and intending to infringe said copyrights,
at Chicago and elsewhere, without the allowance and consent
of the plaintiff, published and sold a work in one volume,
issued by them under various titles and with different titlepages, and purporting to .be edited by different persons and to
be written and compiled by different authors, (the body of
said work and all the matter contained therein, excepting the
title-pages and matters relating thereto, being the same,) said
work, consisting of 351 pages, being a compilation of receipts
for cooking, -treating of the same subjects and covering the
same topics, and adapted- znd intended for the same portion
of the public, as the plaintiff's said book, and being a copy
from and an infringement and piracy of the :plaintiff's said
work; that more than 170 receipts contained in said piratical
work 'were copied verbatim et literati.m from the said copyrighted work' of the plaintiff, said receipts comprising a part
or. the whole of over 150 page's of said piratical work; that

'BELFORD v. SCRIBNIR.

493

Statement of the Case.

inany other parts of that work, besides said 170 receipts, are
infringements upon the copyrights of the plaintiff, and many
of the remaining receipts are in fact copied from the. plaintiff's
book, with certain changes in the phraseology thereof; and
that the subjects in the piratical work 'and the index thereto
are arranged in the same order, and with almost the same
headings, as in the plaintiff's work, and were copied and'
imitated therefrom. The bill then sets forth the particulars
of the piratical work and of the various. title-pages and covers
thereof.
The bill prays for an injunction to restrain the defendants
from printing, publishing, binding, selling or exposing for
sale any copies of. said piratical work, and for an account and
payment of the profits of sales of it.
The defendants were duly served with process and appeared,
and the plaintiff moving for a preliminary injunction, the
court, on January 21,,1884, entered an ordei, on notice, referring' the bill, affidavits and other proofs to a master in chancery, to examine and report whether the bill and, affidavits
made a case entitliig the plaintiff to an injuiction, and meantime issuing a restraining order against the defendants, and
ordering them to keep an account of all books sold by them
at retail.
Theb ma~ter, after hearing the parties, made the following
ieport,on February 27,' 1884: "Upon hearing the arguments
of counsel, and an examination of the testimony and exhibits
submitted to me upon this reference, I find and report that
the defendants have'violated the rights of the complainant in
printiig, publishing and selling all of the certaim, books 'de-'
scribed in said bill of complaint as having been published by the
defendants. That said works, though purporting to be edited
and compiled by different persons, whose names appear therein,
in one instance the title'being partially changed," and in others
entirely so, are largely compilations of the recipes of the complaiiiant, and that the matter and language of said books is
the same as the complainant's in every substantial sense, but
so distributed through said books of defendants as to become
incorporated'into those ivorks, making it almost impossible to

O6CTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

separate the one from the other. I find, also, that the defendants have been guilty bf an appropriation of the topics in use
in complainant's book as well as the index, with slight and
occasional changes, .and that as to the.balance of said publications of defendants there constantly occurs the use of complainant's language, with occasional change of phraseology,
with the general arrangement and headings preserved. In all
of the alleged illegal publications the defendants are shown to
have used the material of the complainant instead of 'resorting
to original sources of information.' The case, therefore, in
my estimation, comes within the rule laid down by the- court
in Myers Iv. Callaghan,10 Bissell; 139. I am, therefore, of the
opinion that the defendants have infringed the rights of complainant, as charged in the bill, and recommend that an injunction issue as prayed."
On notice, the court, on March 14, 1884, entered an order
confirming the .maste's report, and enjoining the defendants
from printing, publishing, binding, selling or exposing for
sale, or being in any way concerned in exposing for sale or
disposing. of any copies of their book described in the bill, or
infringing upon the copyright of the plaintiff in his book
described in the bill..
On the 4th of April, 1884, the defendants put inia demurrer
to the bill, on the ground that it did not allege that, before the
publication of the plaintiff:s book, a printed copy of its title
was delivered at the office of the Librarian of Congress, or
deposited in the mail addressed to him at Washington; that
it did not allege that within ten days after publication two
copies of the book were delivered at the office of the Librarian
of Congress or deposited in the mail addressed to him at
Washington; and that it did not show that a notice of such
copyright had been inserted, in the form prescribed by law,
in the several copies of each edition of the book which had
been published.
On the 12th of May, 1884, the court.entered an order sustaining said demurrer, giving leave to the plaintiff to amend
his bill, and ordering that the defendants plead, answer or
demur to the bill as amended.
-

BELFORD v. SCRIBNER.
Statement of the Case.

On the 24th of June, 1884, Donohue and Henneberry filed
a separate answer to the bill, and on the same day the corporation defendant filed its separate answer. Each answer
took issue on all the material allegations of the bill. The
answer of Donohue and Henneberry alleged that they were
employed by the corporat.on defendant to manufacture the
books complained of in the bill; and that the plaintiff was
not entitled to a discovery from them, as asked in the bill, as
to, the number of copies of the piratical book they had on
hand, because such discovery would subject or tend to subject
them to a penalty or forfeiture. The answer of the corporation took issue on the material allegations of the bill, and
alleged that the corporation employed the firm of Donohue
& Henneberry to print and manufacture the alleged infringing book, admitted its alleged sale thereof, and averred that it
had sold.about 9500 copies of the principal book and about
44,000 copies of a cheap edition, but averred that the plaintiff
was not entitled to any discovery from it of the'number of
books it had on hand, because such discovery would subject or
tend to subject it to a penalty and forfeiture.
On the 3d of September, 1884, the plaintiff filed replications
to the two answers, and on the 17th of October, 1884, the
court referred the case t6 a master in chancery, ".to take proof
and state an account herein." It appears by the record that
in November and December, 1884, and January, 1885, the
testimony on behalf of the plaintiff was taken in the city of
New York before a United States commissioner, aiid was filed
in the court on the 28th of February, 1885.' The testimony
on the part of the defendants was taken before the master in
Chicago, in May, July and November, 1885, and was filed in
the court on the 27th of April, 1886.
On the 17th of November, 1886, an order was entered stating 'that, on motion of the plaintiff and with the consent of
the defendants, leave was given to' the plaintiff to file an
amendment to his bill in place 'of the original amendment,
which had been removed from the files'; and on the same day
amendments to the bill were filed, setting forth that the firm
of Charles Scribner & Co., on the 26th of M[ay, 1871, delivered

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

at the office of the Librarian of Congress at Washington, a
printed copy of the title-page of the book, which title-page is
set forth in the amendments; that on the same day said librarian recorded the name of such book; that on the same day,
withiA ten days from the publication of the book, the firm
delivered at the office of said librarian two printed copies of
the book, which were complete copies thereof, and of the best
edition thereof published; that prior to the publication of the
book, said firm caused to be printed, on the page immediately
following the title-page of each copy published, words giving
notice of the copyright; that such words and notice are printed
in each copy of said book published; and that said firm did
everything required by law for the securing of the copyright.
The amendments also set forth that the plaintiff, under the
firm name of Charles Scribner's Sons, on the 18th of September, 1880, delivered at the office of the Librarian of Congress,
at Washington, a printed copy of the title-page of the new
edition of said book, containing the printed words of the title,
and on the same day the librarian recorded the name of such
book; that on the 15tb of November, 1880, and within ten
days from the publication thereof, the plaintiff delivered at
the office of said librarian two printed copies of the book, of
the best edition thereof published; that prior to the publication of the book he caused to be printed, on the page immediately following the title-page of each copy published, words
giving notice of the copyright; that such words and notice are
printed in each copy of said book published; and that he did
everything required by law for the securing of his copyright
in said book
The record shows that on the 30th of November, 1881, an
entry was made in the'record of proceedings in the cause, setting forth that the case on that day came on to be heard on
pleadings, proofs "and master's report and exceptions." There
are not in the record any exceptions to a master's'report. '
There is an entry in the record of the proceedings in the
cause, made February 23, 1888, setting forth an order which
states that, on motion of the plaintiff's solicitors, he was allowed ':to file a certified copy of copyright in place of such

BELFORD v. SORIBNER.

497

Statement of the Case.

proof heretofore Mi1ed and lost." The record shows that oh
the 24th of February, 1888, there were filed in the court the
certified copies of papers from the office of the Librarian of
Congress, which axe set forth in the margin.'
1

No. 4933 B.

LTBnAty OF COwGRESS,
COPYRIGHT OFFICE, WASHINGTON.

To wit:
Be it remembered that on the 26th day of May, anno Domini 1871, Charles
Scribner & Co., of New York, has deposited In this office-the title of a book,
th6 title or description of which is in the following words, to wit:
Common Sense in the Household;
A Manual of Practical Housewifery.
By Marion Harland.
New York:
Charles Scribner & Co., 1871.
the right whereof they claim as proprietors in conformity with the laws of
the United States respecting copyrights.
A. R. SPOFFORD, Librarianof Congress.
Two copies of the above publication deposited May 26, 1871.
I, A- R. Spofford, Librarian of Congress, hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of the original record of copyright in the Library of
Congress. In witness whereof I have hereto set my hand and affiied the
seal of my office this 12th day of November, 1883.
[SEAi.]
A. R. SPOFFORU, Librarianof Congress.
Librarian of Congress,
Copyright office.
United States of America.
LiBRAnY oi

CoNGREss,

No. 14239 L.
COPYRIGHT OFFICE, WASHINGTON.
To wit:
Be it remembered that on the 18th day of September, anno Domini, 1880,
Charles Scribner's Sons, of New York, have deposited in this office the title
of a book, the title or description of which is in the following words,
to wit:
Common Sense in the Household;
A Manual of Practical Housewifery.
By Marion Harland.
(New edition.)
New York:
Charles Scribner's Sons, 1881.
the right whereof they claim as proprietors in conformity with the laws -of
the United States respecting copyrights.
A. R. SPOFFORD, Librarianof Congress.
VOL. CXLIV-32

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

On the 6th of April, 1888, the defendants filed in the clerk's
office a motion to strike from the record, as evidence in the
cause, the certificates of the Librarian of Congress so filed,
because (1) neither of them was in proper form or properly
authenticated; (2) neither of them was in compliance with the
order of February 23, 1888, '" because no other certificates
having the like purport or effect had been ever offered in evidence nor lost from the files in said cause ;" and (3) they were
incompetent and irrelevant.
On the 7th of April, 1888, the court entered an order overruling the motion to strike from the files "the certificates by
the Librarian of Congress, filed as testimony in this cause."
The cause was heard by Judge Blodgett, who filed an
opinion on April 9, 1888, a copy of which is c~utained in the
record, and on the same day the court entered a decree which
'stated ,that the case was heard upon the bill, answers and
replications, and proof taken in the cause, documentary, oral
and written, "and upon the master's report herein, with exceptions thereto"' The decree granted a perpetual injunction
restraining the defendants and each of them, their officers and
agents, from printing, publishing, binding, selling or exposing
for sale, or causing or being in any way concerned in selling
or exposing for sale, or otherwise disposing of any copy of the
book described in the bill as having been published by the
defendants under various titles, (which titles are set forth,)
and any copy of said book under any title whatsoever. The
decree adjudged that the defendants' book was an infringement upon the rights of the plaintiff as owner of the copyright
of his book, the title of which is given in the decree, and'that
he was entitled to damages for such infringement; and upon
the proof the court fixed the amount of such damages at
$1092, "being the amoilt of the profits shown by the proof
I, A. R. Spofford, Librarian of Congress, hereby certify that the foregoing
is a true copy of the original record of copyright in the Library of Congress.
In witness whereof I have hereto set my hand and affixed the seal of my
office this 25th day of October, 1884.
A. R. SPOFFORD, Librarianqf Congress.
FSEAL.]

BELFORD v. SOPIIBNER.
Argument for AppeUants.

io have been made by defendants from the defendants' infringement," and that the plaintiff recover that sum from the
defendants and each of them, with costs. The defendants
took an appeal to this court.
21r. _Yewton A. Partridgefor appellants.
I. The fir assignment of error relates to the recital in the
decree that the final hearing was upon the master's report
and exceptions. While this error is clearly established upon
the face of the record,'counsel for the appellants do not desire
to discuss it at length, and deem it immaterial, unless some
advantage bearing upon: the exteht .and nature of the evidence
before the court to suttain its. findings of fact and its decree
upon -the final hearing, should be attempted by appellee. In
that e'vent, the recital complained of might- become material,
and it is for that reason alone that the necessary space has
been taken to clearly raise the point.
II. It is further contended that the complainant was not
the owner of the two copyrights in said book entitled,. "Common Sense in the Household," in question in this case, and
that he was not entitled to file and maintain his bill herein.
The. bill of complaint states that M. Virginia Terhune, the
wife of Edward P. Terhune, was the author of said book, and
her evidence shows that at the time when said book was written, she resided in Newark, :New J-orsey, with her said lhusband, and she stated that she was married in 1856. 'The
agreement stated the name of the author as Mrs. E,P. Terhune (Marion Harland) of the city of Newark, State of New:
Jersey. At common law a married woman has no interest in
personal property acquired by or through her during marriage,
but it belongs absolutely to her husband.
No proof 'was introduced of the provisions of. the laws of
New York or of New Jersey or of Massachusetts, where it
was stated .said- M. Virginia Terhune resided at the time said
bill was filed and no proof was submitted to show that the
laws of either of said States differed from the common la*;
and the presumption is that the common law is in force in .the

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Appellants.

different States unless the contrary is pleaded and proved.
Crouch v. Hall, -15 Illinois, 263. But in case of personal property acquired after marriage by her means, such property
belongs absolutely to the husband; so that, if a legacy should
be given to the wife during coverture, and the husband should
die before it is paid or due, it would not belong to the wife,
but to the husband's executor.
III. No valid copyright was obtained in the first or 1871
edition of the said book, "Common Sense in the Household,"
because the statute was not complied with. The statute required delivery at the office of the Librarian of Congress or
deposit in the mail addressed to the said librarian,, of two
copies of such copyright book "within ten days from the
publication thereof." The uniform construction which has
been placed upon this provision of the law is the same as if it
read ten days from and after publication, and such is the
ordinary, Well-determined meaning of the words employed.
In discussing the same phraseology under the act of February
3, 1831. although the period of time was different, the court
used the following language: "Undoubtedly the three conditions prescribed by the statute, viz.: . . . and the depositing of the dopies of the book within tfiree months after the
publication, are conditions precedent to the perfecting of the
copyright." Callaghanv. Xyers, 128 U. S. 617, 652.
IV. The copyright in the new or 1880 edition of, said book,
"Common Sense in the Household," was claimed tQ be invalid because the proof is not sufficient to show that the.two
copies of said book were duly deposited to complete said
copyright.
. V. It is claimed that said Circuit Court committed error in
granting the motion of the complainants to file a certified
copy of copyright in place of such proof alleged theretofore
to have been filed and lost, and in refusing to grant the motion on behalf of the defendants to strike from the record in
said cause the certified copies which were filed February 24,
1888.
VI. The decree ought to have been entered for the amount
of $1092, against said defendant cc-oration, Belford, Clarke

BELFORD v. SORIBNER.

501.

Opinion of the Court.

& Co., alone, and it was error to decree.Michael A. Donohue
and William P. Henneberry, and each of them, to pay any
part of said amount. The present case comes clearly within
the rule announced in Elizabeth v. Nicholson Pavement Co.,
97 U. S. 126, where, an identical question was discussed aifd the
true rule laid down, which is, that unless all of the defendants
realize a profit from the infringement, a joint decree for the
payment of such profit should not be entered against them.
It was there held to be error to enter a decree against the defendants who did not participate in the profits shown to, have
been thus realized for the payment of such profits.
I VII. The decree ought to have been entered for only the
proportion of the profits realized by said corporation, Belford,
Clarke & Co., from the sale of the said books complained of,
which was -derived from the use of the matter copied from.
said book entitled "1Common Sense in the Household." This
is the case of a cook-book. Its matter consists of short receipts classified together under appropriate heads. .Mlfany of
these vary but little from some others contained under the
same heading. The book is not constructed upon the plan of
the reports considered in Callaghan v. Ayers, where it was
stated that the value of the 'book consisted in its integrity
as a whole. Had the books- complained of contained other
matter so incorporated with the copyright matter that the
same could not be separated, and so that the lawful matter
would be useless without the use of the matter unlawfully
obtained, a different principle would apply. But here the
evidence shows that all the receipts contained in the books
complained of which were wholly or partly identical with the
matter contained in said book, "Counon Sense in the Household," could be separated without difficulty from the other
receipts.
-Mr. Walter C. -Larnedfor appellee.
MR. JUSTICE BLATCHFORD, after stating the case, delivered
,the opinion of the court.
The assigiiments of error filed by the defendants in this

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

court allege that the final decree of the Circuit Court is erroneous (1) because it recites that the hearing was upon the
master's report, with exceptions thereto, when there was no
report nor any exceptions thereto before the court at the final
hearing; (2) because it finds that the plaintiff is entitled to
damages, when the only remedy in equity is by injunction
and an account of profits; (3) because it finds that copyright
in the book, the title of which is set forth in the bill, was
vested in the plaintiff as proprietor thereof, when the proofs
show that he never was its proprietor, and therefore could not
procure a valid copyright therein; (4) because the proofs did
not show that any valid copyright had been procured at any
time in said book or in either edition thereof; (5) because the
decree goes for the entire amount of profits realized by the
corporation defendant, which was the proprietor of the book
which is alleged to infringe the rights of the plaintiff, instead
of such part of the profits as was realized by reason of such
infringement; (6) because it orders the defendants Donohue
and lenneberry to pay the amount of said profits, when the
pleadings and proofs fail to show that any part of such profits
was realized by them or either of them; (7)because the court
granted the motion of the plaintiff, after the hearing of the
cause, to file proofs therein, and denied the motion of the
defendants to have such proofs stricken from the record; and
(8) because the findings and decrees of the court were against
the law and the evidence.
(1) It is true that the record shows that, on the 17th of
October, 1884, the court made an order referring the cause to
a master in chancery "to take proof and *tate an acc(unt
herein." No report afterwar( . made is found in the record.
The only special report found therein is one of the master,
ieri.before set forth, filed February 27, 1884, on the question
of the issuing of a preliminary injunction. To that report no
exeeptions appear to have been filed. Not only does the final
decree, of April 9, 1888, state that the cause was heard upon
biih, answers, replications and proof, "and upon the master's
r port herein, with exceptions thereto," but the opinion of
'Judge Blodgett says: "The case was referred to one of the

BELFORD v. SCRIBNER.
Opinion of the Court.

masters of the court, to take proofs and report findings upon
the question of infringement, and he has reported that the
defendants, by the publication and sale of two books sef out
and described in the bill of complaint, one under the title of
' How to Cook,' and the other under the title of ' Economy
Cook Book,' have infringed upon the complainant's copyright
by incorporating into their said publication something over
fifty pages of the matter of complainant's book, as well as
substantially following the arrangement of subjects and headings. -Myer8 v. Callaghan, 10,Bissell, 139. I have carefully
examined the proof upon which the master bases his findings,
and am satisfied that the finding was fully justified by the
testimony. The case is now before me on defendants' exceptions to the master's findings, and on complainant's motion
for a decree in pursuance of the master's report."
The report thus referred to in the decred and in the opinion
is manifestly the report filed February 27, 1881, and there
must have. been exceptions thereto taken by the defendants.
The testimony on which that report was based is not found in
the record. The only other master's report in the record isone made by him reporting the testimony which he had taken
in the cause in Chicago in May, 1885, and subsequently, and
which report is dated April 20, 1886, and was filed April 27,
1886. If exceptions were taken by the defendants to either
or both of those reports, it was their duty as *appellants to
have them brought into this court as par of the record; and
if they took no exceptions, the reports stand without exception. The. first assignment of error is of no avail to the defendants.
.(2) It is also contended that the plaintiff is not the owner
of the two copyrights in question, because the authoress of
the book was a married woman, residing with her husband
in iNew Jersey, when the agreement between her and Charles
Scribner & Co. was made, on April 1, 1871; that at common
law a married woman has no interest in personal property
acquired by her during marriage, but it belongs absolutely
to her husband; that no proof was introduced of the provisions of the laws of New York, or those of New Jersey, or

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

those of Massachusetts, in which latter State the bill averred
that the authoress resided, at the time the bill was filed, and
no proof was offered to show that the laws of any of those
States differed from the common law, and the presumption
was that the common law was in force in those different
States; that it does not appear thatV the authoress had any
right to sell her husband's property or to make contracts in
regard to it; that this suit ought to have been brought in his
name as plaintiff; and that if, by ratification, he had confinned her right -to hold and deal with the property in question, then the suit ought to have been brought in her name,
as owner in fact of the copyright.
On this point the Circuit Court said, in its opinion, that, as
che proof showed that the authoress from time to time settled
with the owners of the copyright for her royalties, the court
would presume that her legal title as the author of the books
was in some due and proper manner conveyed to and vested'
in the persons who secured the copyright thereof; and that
acquiescence for so many years, by all the parties, in that
claim of proprietorship in the copyright, was enough to answer
the suggestion of the husband's possible marital interest in his
wife's earnings. This is, we think, a sound view.
The opinion of the Circuit Court further correctly said:
"It is certain that, if there is any ownership in this work by
copyright at all, it is in the complainant, in whose name the
copyright was taken-and now stands, so far as is shown by the
proof in this case. If the law of the domicil of Mrs. Terhune
entitles her husband to any part of her earnings, that is a
matter to be settled between her husband and the complainant, and which the defendants cannot interpose as a defence
to a trespass upon the complainant's property rights in this
copyrighted book."
(3) It is also contended for the defendants that the two
contracts in the case, one dated April 1, 1871, between the
authoress and Charles Scribner & Co., and the other dated
-November 6, 1884, between her and Charles Scribner's Sons,
(lid not vest the title of the book in the plaintiff or in those
,through whom he claims title: and that those agreements did

BELFORD v. SCRIBN'TER.
Opinion of the Court.

not show that she parted with the title to the book of which
she was the authoress. But we are of 'opinion that the proofs
are to the contrary, and that the copyright was secured in
accordance with law, in both editions of the book, by the proprietor, and that the plaintiff owns such copyright.
(4) Objection is also made that it is stated in the amendments to the bill that a printed copy of the title-page of the
book first published was delivered at the office of the Librarian
of Congress at Washington, May 26, 1871; that on the same
day Charles Scribner & Co', within ten days from the publication of the book, delivered two printed copies of it at the office
of the Librarian of Congress; that ยง f4956 of the Revised
Statutes required that the two copies should be delivered" at
the office of said librarian or deposited in the mail addressed
to him "within ten days from the publication" of the book;
that the testimony shows that the book was published May
27, 1871; and that, therefore, the two printed copies of it
were deposited one day before the publication, and the law
was not complied with.
But we are of opinion that the statute -was substantially
complied with.. The two copies were deposited before the
expiration of ten days after the publication, and that was all
that was necessary. Ten days were allowed after the publication within which the two copies were required to be deposited, and, within the meaning of the statute, they were so
deposited, although the deposit took place one day before the
publication. The case is analogous to the ruling of this court
as to the protest or notice of dissatisfaction to be given to the'
collector in a customs case, where the statute required it to be
given within ten days after the liquidation of the duties, and
it was given after the collector's decision and before the final
liquidation, and it was held that, as the notice was given before ten days after the final liquidation had expired, it was a
sufficient notice. Davies v. .11iller, 130 U. S. 284.
(5) It is also contended that the copyright of 1880 was
invalid, because no'sufficient, proof appeared that two copies
of that book were duly deposited. We are- of opinion that
the certificate of the Librarian of Congress, set forth in the

506 ,

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

margin, as printed in the record,' that two copies of the new
edition of the plaintiff's copyrighted book were received by him
November 15, 1880, which.was within ten days after the publication, was competent evidence, although the certificate was
not under seal.
(6) It is also contended that the Circuit Court erred in
granting, on Febfuary 23, 1888, the motion of the plaintiff
"to file a certified copy of copyright in place of such proof
heretofore filed and lost," and in refusing, on April 6, 1888,
to grant the motion of the defendants to strike from the
record the certificates of the Librarian of Congress which had
been filed in pursuance of the order of February 23, 1888.
The ground of making the order of February 23, 1888, was
stated in it to be that proof by a certified copy of copyright
had been theretofore filed and lost, and that the new certified
copy was to be in place of such proof; and in the motion
made by the defendants to strike the new certificates from
the record, it was stated that "no other certificate having the
like purport or effect had been ever offered in evidence nor
lost from the files in said cause." But the court, by overruling such motion, must necessarily have found that the fact
was otherwise, and that such former certificates had been fied
as proof and had been lost. There is nothing in the record
to control this finding of fact.
(7) It is urged that the decree ought to have been entered
for the sum of $1092 against the defendant corporation alone,
and that it was error to decree the other two defendants to
pay any part of that amount; that those two defendants
manufactured the books complained of, and did not sell them
' NEW YORK, Nov. 15th, 1880.

Mr. A. R.-Spofford, the Librarian of Congre~s, Washingtot, D.C.
DEAR Sm: We send you to-day by mail (2) two copies of Marion Harland's " Common Sense in the Household," new edition, to complete the
copyright for that book.
The certificate for title entry is numbered 14239 L.
Please acknowledge their receipt.
Yours truly,
CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS.
2 copies of the above received Nov. 15, 1880.
A. R. SPOFFORD, Librarianof Congress.

BELFORD v. SCRIBNER.

1 507

Opinion of the Court.

or offer them for sale; that the corporation defendant .published and sold the books and was the only defendant which
received any part of the profits arising ' from their sale; and
that it was from the books-of account of the corporation de-'
.fendant that the account of profits was stated on which the
decree for danmages in the case was based. To ,upport this
view, the case of Elizabeth v. Yiclolson Pavement o., 97 U. S.
126, 139, 140, is cited to show that unless all of the defendants
realize a profit from the infringement, a joint decree for the
payment of such profits ought not to be entered against them;
and that the defendants who did not participate in the profits
realized ought not to be charged with any part of- those
profits. It is contended that while the defendants Donohue
*and Henneberry might have been called upon to account for
the profits realized by them from manufacturing, or printing
and binding the books complained of, no proof of such profits
was offered, and, therefore, no decree for the payment of any,
profits could lawfully be entered against them. The decree
sets forth that the $1092 is the amount of the profit shown by
the proof to have been made by the defendants" from the defendants' infringement.
To this view it is replied by the plaintiff that, as the
defendants Donohue and Henneberry printed the books by.
contract with the corporation defendant, and as, under the
copyright law, Rev. Stat. ยง 4961, both the printer and the
publisher are equally liable to the owner of the copyright for
an infringement, and as it is to be inferred that Donohue and
Henneberry made a profit from printing the piratical boo&9,
they were, therefore, sharers in the profits realized from the
sale of the books, and were participes criminis with the defendant corporation in the infringement; that the two sets of,
.defendants together printed and published the books, and
were practically partners in doing it, the corporation doing
one part, and the other defendants 'the other part of the
printing and publishing; and that all the parties concerned
ought to be held to an account to the owner of the copyright in respect to the profits derived from the printing,
publishing and selling, without all of which combined there

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

could have been no infringement. We think these views are
sound.
(8) It is contended by the defendants that the decree ought
to have been only for that proportion of the profits realized
from the sale of the books, which was derived from the use
of the matter which had been copied from the copyrighted
books. But the report of the master, filed February 27, 1884,
speaking of the books printed and published by the defendants, said that he found "that said works, though purporting
to be edited and compiled by different persons, whose names
appear therein, in one instance the title being partially
changed and in others entirely so, are largely compilations
of the recipes of the complainant, and that the matter and
language of said books is the same as the complainant's in
every substantial sense, but so distributed through said books
of defendants as to become incorporated into those works,
making it almost impossible to separate the one from the
other."
The rule is well settled, that, although the entire copyrighted work be not copied in an infringement, but only portions thereof, if such portions are so intermingled with the
rest of the piratical work that they cannot well be distinguished from it, the entire profits realized by the defendants
will be given to the plaintiff. This was the rule laid down
by this court in Callaghan v. Afyers, 128 U. S. 617, 665, following 3awman v. Tegg, 2 Russell, 385, 391, and Mizaletk v.
2,iNoloon Pavement Co., 97 U. S. 126, 139.
We have thus reviewed the points urged in the brief of
the appellant, and do not deem it necessary to consider any
others.

-.Decr'ee affirmed.

