ADAMS v. LOUISIANA.
Opinion of the Court.

i the consideration and determination of this- question, no
resort to any Federal law; it is purely a questi6n of the construotion of a state statute and of the power which was conferred by it-upon her agents -nothing more nor less, Th
governor, acting in their disposal, was limited by the language
of the statate. He could sell the bonds or exchange them for
treasury notes, state er confederate; he could not dispose of
them in any other Way.
There being no Federal question involved,
The -writof error must be dimissed.

ADAXS v. LOUISIANA BOARD OF LIQUIDATION.
ERROR TO THE SPPF9EME COURT OF THE STATE OF LoIsIANA..
No. 187.

Argued and submitted Marcb 4,1892.-

Decided April 18, 1892.

The judgment of a state court in a suit to compel the funding of state bonds,
that a former adverse judgment upon bonds of the same series could be
pleaded as an estoppel, presents no Federal question.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
.1'. -B."J Sage and -Mi.'Charles "F. Hornor for plaintiff in
error.
.Mr. Waltr H. Rogers, Attorney General of the State of
Louisiana, subinitt~d on his brief.
!1.

JusTioE FIELD delivered the opinion of the .court.

This, like No. 21, was a suit against the board of -liquidation of the St~te of Louisiana to compel it to fund four bonds
of the State, held by -the plaintiffs, and to exchange them for
its consolidated .bonds,as provided in the acd of the legislature
known as No. 3, of 1574, at the rate of sixty per cent of their
valuation.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

The board of liquidation appeared to the suit and interposed
the plea of r'es a'udicata,based upon the judgment in the
suit No. 21, brought by B. J. Sage against the board, that is,
that the question involved in this case -the fundability of
the bonds -was conclusively determined in the negative in,
that case, and that the plaintiffs here are thereby estopped
from its assertion'; and als6 set up as adefence that the bonds
were not fundable because they were not issued in conformity
to the statute of the State, which.required that they should
be sold at par for confederate or state treasury notes, whereas
here they were exchanged for sugar. The District Court of
the parish of East Baton Rouge, in which this suit was commenced, sustained both defences and gave judgment for the
defendant. That judgment, on appeal, was affirmed by the
Supreme Court of the State, the latter court placing its decision chiefly upon the ground that the fundability of the bonds
of the series was by the law No. 11, of 1875, to be determined
in a single suit by the holder of such securities, and those,in
this suit were held by Sage when he commenced his suit. To
review this latter judgment the case is 'brought to this court.
The four bonds in this suit are a part of the same series of
one hundred and eighty-four bonds issued at the same time as
the five bonds which were considered'in the suit of B. J. Sage
v. Board of Liquidation of Louisiana, ante, 647, that suit
being brought by him to obtain a like funding of those bonds,
and their exchange. The validity of the bonds was there-the
subject. of consideration, and it .was adjudged that they were
not valid obligations of the State. Bonds exchanged for merchandise were considered not to have been issued in strict conformity to law, as required by the terms of the supplementary
funding act of Louisiana, known as No. 11, of 1875, and therefore were not fundable.
The bonds in this case were transferred by Sage to the
plaintiffs while his own suit was pending, but were left in his
own hands for collection. ,The court was of opinion that the
judg'ment as to certain, of the bonds of one series determined
the character of the other bonds of the same series, and, without deciding in-terms the plea of res adjudicatainterposed by

ROBERTS v. LEWIS.
Statement of the Case.

the State, based upon the judgment in the Sage case, held
that the fundability of the bonds in this suit was settled by
the decision in that case, which is practically applying that
doctrine. The transcript of the judgment presented to us,
which contains the proceedings of the court below, does not
present any Federal question which authorizes us to review
the decision of the state court. Whether or not the adjudication upon the first bonds of the same series could be pleaded
as an estoppel to the proceeding for the fundability of other
bonds of the same series, is not a Federal question. Nor does
the ruling of the court upon the validity of the bonds present
any questiQn under Federal law, blit solely a question upon
the construction of a statute of the State, and whether an
exchange of the bonds for merchandise was a sale within its
meaning. The writ of error must therefore be
Jiomised.

ROBERTS v. LEWIS.
ERROR To THE

couRlT OF THE UNITED S
DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.

.oRourr

sTATE
FOR THE

No. 285. Argued April 12, 182,-Decided April 25, 1892.
Under Rev. Stat. ยง 914, and according to the Code of Civil Procedure of the
State of Nebraska, if the petition, in an action at law in the Circuit
Court of the United States held within that State, alleges the requisite
citizenship of the parties, and the answer denies each and every allegation in the petition, such citizenship is put in issue, and, if no proof or
finding thereof appears of record, the judgment must be reversed for
want of jurisdiction.

IN this action, brought June 11, 1887, by Lewis against
Roberts in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of 1Nebraska, the petition was as follows:
"Comes- now the said plaintiff and shows and represents
unto this honorable court that he is -a resident of the city of
Milwaukee in the State of Wisconsin, and a citizen of the said
State of Wisconsin, and that the defendant is a resident of the

