OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Syllabus.

covenants of the ninth clause of the contract not to manufacture or sell the devices. therein specified.
The decree of the court below dismissing the bill is, therefore,

Affirmed.
POPE MANUFACTURING

COMPANY

V. GORMULLY

&

JEFFERY

MANUFACTURING COMPANY. (No. 1.) Appeal from the Circuit Court

of the United States for the Northern District of Illinois. No. 205.
Argued March 9, 10, 1892. Decided April 4, 1892. MR. JUSTICE
BROWN delivered the opinion of the court.
The bil!'in this case appears to be brought against the defendants as successors of Gormully under the contract of December 1,
1884, which was also made the basis of the suit No. 204, just decided. As it. is admitted in the brief that if the court refused
relief against Mr. Gormully for want of equity in the prior suit,
there is no reason why it should. not refuse it in this case, it is
unnecessary to go into its details.
The decree of the court below dismissing the bill is, therefore,
Affirmed.
Mr. Lewis L. Coburn and Mr. Edmund Wetmore for appellant.
Mr. Charles K. Offield and Mr. W. C. Goudy for appellees.

POPE MANUFACTURING COMPANY v. GORMULLY
& JEFFERY MANUFACTURING COMPANY. (No. 2.)
-APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 206.

Argued March 10, 11, 1892.-Decided April 4,1892.

Pope Manufacturing Co. v. Gormully, ante, 224. applied to this case so far as
the plaintiff claims to recover for a violation of a contract.
Letters patent No. 252,280, Claims 1 and 2, issued January 10, 1682, to Curtis

POPE IAPF'G CO. v. GORMULLY M'F'G CO. (Io. 2.) 239
Statement of the Case.
H. Veeder for "a seat for bicycles," when properly construed is not
infringed by the defendant's Champion saddle.
Letters patent No. 197,289, Claim 2, issued November 20, 1877, to A. L.,
G. M. and 0. E. Peters for an anti-friction journal box, are void for want
of novelty.
Letters patent No. "245,542, issued August 9, 1881, to Thomas W. Moran for
velocipedes, if it involves any invention, is void for want of novelty ih
the alleged invention protected by them.
Claims 1 and 3 in letters patent No. 310,776, issued January 13, 1885, to
William P. Benham for improvements in velocipedes are void for want
of novelty in the.alleged invention protected by them.
The second and third claims in letters patent No. 323,162, issued July 28,
1885, to Emmit G. Latta for a mode.of protecting-the pedals of a velocipede with india-rubber are void for want of invention; as it is clear that
the coating of pedals to prevent slipping being conceded to be old, the
particular shape in which they may be made is a mere matter of taste or
mechanical skill.

TiE court stated the case as follows:
This was a bill in equity for the infringement of eight patents
granted to different parties for devices used in the manufacture
of bicycles and velocipedes. Upon a hearing in the court
below the bill was dismissed, and the plaintiff appealed to this
court. 34 Fed. Rep. 885.
The assignment of errors covers only five patents:
1. Patent No. 252,280, issued Janbary 10, 1882, to Curtis
H. Veeder, for "a seat for bicycles," which the court below
held to be limited by previous patents to Lamplugh and Brown,
to Shire and to Fowler, and as so limited, not to have been
infringed by the defendants.
2. Patent No. 197,289, issued November 20, 1877, to A. L.,
G. M. and 0. E. Peters for an anti-friction journal box, which
was held to be anticipated, and, if not anticipated, not to have
been infringed.
3. Patent No. 245,542, issued August 9, 1881, to Thomas
W. Moran for handles for velocipedes, which the court held
did n6t involve invention, and was void.
4.- Patent No. 310,776, issued January 13,1885, tQ William
iR Benham, for improvements in velocipedes, whicbi the cour
held had not. been infringed'.by the d'efeadants.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

5. Patent No. 323,162, issued July 28, 1885, to Eminmit G.
Latta, for an improvement in velocipedes, which the court, in
view of the state of the art, held to be void for want of novelty.
.lbr. Lewis I.
appellant.

Coburn and -r.

.Mr.Charles I Ofl ld for appellees.
with h m on the brief.
MR. JUSTICE

.Edmund Wetnore for
.Mr. I.

C. Goudy was

BRoWN delivered the opinion of the court.

The bill in this case, in addition to the usual allegations of
a bill for the infringement of a patent, sets forth as a distinct
ground for recovery the violation of the contract of December
1, 1884, which it was claimed was obligatory upon the defendants. As this claim was, however, disposed of in the cases
Nos. 204 and 205, just decided adversely to the plaintiff, upon
grounds which are equally available here, we shall take no
further notice of it. .The case is, therefore, resolved into an
ordinary suit for the infringement of a patent.
(1) Patent No. 252,280, to Curtis H. Veeder, is for a "seat
for bicycles." In his specification the patentee states that his
"improvements relate to the class of seats known as 'saddles,'
and especially to devices for suspending the leather or other
flexible material of which the seating-surface is composed, and
for stretching or taking up the slack in the same, and for
connecting the same with the perch or supporting-bar for the
seat, and by means of which the seat is made adjustable
backward and forward over the perch or bar; and my present
invention . . . consists, first, in a divided metallic spring,
or supporting-plate for the flexible -seat; second, in a modification of that portion of said metallic spring which forms the
framework for the rear of the seat; thiid, in mechanism for
elongating or extending said metallic spring so as to take up
the slack of the flexible seat; and fourth, in mechanism for
completing the support of the seat and connecting the same
with the perch or supporting-bar of the vehicle, so as to be
adjustable backward and forward thereon."

POPE M'F'G CO. v. GORMULLY M'F'G CO. (No. 2.)

241

Opinion of the Court.

He further states that he is aware "tha t . a spring has been
used to support the seat or saddle of a bicycle," and, therefore
does not claim the general application of a spring for this purpose, but does claim:
"1. A suspension-saddle, constructed with a flexib portion
0, and having an under spring in two or more parts B D, to
which the flexible portion is attached at either end, and which
metallic parts are extensible, substantially as and for the purposes set forth.
"2. In a velocipede seat, the combination of plates B and
D, clamp F, stop b2 adjusting bolt F', substantially as shown
and described."
Referring to the state of the art, as disclosed by prior
patents, there appears in the patent of John C.Miller, of April
10, 1866, a saddle seat suspended at both ends upon springs;
the seat, however, has a framework of iron, and consequently
is not flexible, and, of course, has no provision for taking up
the slack. In the patent to Fowler of 1880, there is a saddle.
seat, suspended at the front end upon a coil spring, and at
the rear end upon a long plate spring; the seat is rigid, however, and lacks the flexibility which characterizes the Veeder
patent, and there was apparently no provision for mutual adjustment of the springs. The Shire patent of 1879 has a flexible saddle seat, the front end of which is attached to a strap
which passes through a loop, and is susceptible of being shortened or lengthened by means of a buckle. It also has an
under spring to which is attached the forward end of the flexible saddle. It differs principally from the Veeder patent in
the fact that the slack is taken up by means of a strap and
buckle, instead of by an adjustment of the two springs of the
Veeder patent. The Bishop patent of 1859 exhibits a flexible
seat suspended upon springs at either end, but it also lacks the
adjustable feature.
None of these prior patents exhibit a flexible seat supported
at either end by two parts of a spring, which are inade adjustable relatively to each other, in such manner as to take up the
slack; and for the purposes of this case it may be conceded
that there was invention in this devicenotwithstanding that
voL. cxLIV-16

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

other patents showed flexible seats suspended upon springs at
either end, and in some cases with the feature of adjustability.
The Veeder patent, however, differs no more from the prior
patents than do the defendant's saddles from it. In the defendant's Champion saddle a flexible saddle is supported at
either end upon springs, the rear one being made adjustable in
such a way as to take up the slack. But as Veeder's invention,
in view of the state of the art, is a very narrow one, we think
it cannot be properly considered as covering the defendant's
device. The springs of the defendant's saddle are not only
wholly different in form from those of the Veeder patent, but
there is no relation between them, the rear one being independently adjustable. The feature of extensibility does not pertain at all to the sWings, but to the peculiar manner in which
the rear spring is adjusted to the perch. If Veeder had been
the first to invent a saddle supported upon springs, or a flexible
spring seat capable of adjustment, it might be thought that
the defendants could be held to infringe, though they.do not
employ the double spring of the Veeder patent, but in view of
the state of the art, we think the court below was correct in
holding that there was no infriugement.
(2) Patent No. 197,289 to the Peters is for an "improvement
in anti-friction journal boxes" for overcoming the friction of
the bearing of all vehicles mouAted on wheels, and the journals of all revolving shafts, etc. The invention is "a combination of rollers or cylinders, made of iron, steel or any suitable metal or other material, of sufficient number and suitable
in length, size, and form, which revolve around the spindle or
bearing of the axle within the hub of the wheel, and around
the journal or bearing of the shaft or cylinder, and within the
journal box, the rollers being independent of the bearing and
the hub or journal box."
The only claim in issue in the case is the second, which is
for "the bearings with the shoulder bevelled or notched, combined with the nut, or its equivalent, correspondingly bevelled
or notched, as shown in figure 4."
This patent is in substance for a method of-overcoming the
friction of an ordinary journal by causing the same to revolve

POPE M'F'G CO. v. GORKULLY M'F'G CO. (No. 2.) 243
Opinion of the Court.

upon elongated rollers, whose action is guided and secured by
putting them in a cage, so that their relative relations to each
other in their revolution shall be the same. "To support and
keep the rollers from running against one another and thereby
producing friction, both ends of each are made with a bearing,
which goes into rings,-or their equivalents, in such a manner
as to allow the rollers to turn freely on their bearings as they
revolve around the bearing of the axle or shaft. These rings
may be fiat, or one or both sides rounding or oval, and of one
entire piece, or made in sections or parts, and the parts fitted
or hinged together in such a manner as to form the required
ring." "To retain the wheel on the bearing of the axle, as
the wheel of a common road-vehicle, the ordinary nut in use
for that purpose, or its equivalent, is made to-bevel in conformity with the bevelled ends of the rollers, and the bearing
or axle at the inner ends of the rollers is made with a bevelled
shoulder to correspond with the ends of rollers."
The patent to Allcott, of March 29, 1870, has also for its
"object the diminution of friction in ordinary axle boxes, and
consists in constructing the hub box larger than the journal of
the axle, and filling the space between the journal and the
box with longitudinal metallic rollers, of which two sizes are
employed, the larger and smaller alternating, and more completely filling said space." The axle is formed with a grooved
-lange and the journal with a similarly grooved or bevelled nut.
The ends of the rollers are also somewhat bevelled to correspond with the tapering portions of the journal and nut.
When the bevelled ends of the rollers become worn down the
bevelled sleeve on the nut may be filed down, and :the nut
screwed up, thus keeping the rollers from any l6ngitudinal
motion.
This patent seems to be very nearly, if not quite, a complete
anticipation of the Peters patent. Such differences as exist
between them are of minor consequence; the bevelled shoulder
combined with the bevelled nut or its equivalent being present
in, and the essential feature of both patents. In any view Qf
the case it required no invention to make the slight alterations
apparent in the Peters patent.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

In addition to this, however, the Jewett patent of May,
1868, shows "a journal or axle box, provided with a series of
spherical balls, which are placed in a circular recess or chamber, and revolve in contact with the journal or axle, thereby
reducing the friction to a great extent, and entirely avoiding
the necessity of employing oil or other lubricating material."
The grooves of this patent at the opposite ends of the axles
are. practically the same in their operation as the bevelled
shoulder and nut of the Peters patent, the balls giving both
vertical and lateral support, and preventing endwise movements. Similar arrangements are shown in the patent to
Perley of 1863, and the English patent to iMennons of 1860.
There was also a patent issued to one Smith upon the same
day the Peters patent was issued, namely, November 20, 1877,
but upon an application filed September 1, 1877, prior to
Peters' application, and, therefore, anticipating Peters' patent,
in which was represented an axle formed with a spindle, having a collar at its inner end, in which collar was a circumferential half-round groove. The outer end of this spindle is
reduced in circumference, and another collar is placed thereon
and fastened by a screw, this collar being also provided with
a similar groove. In each collar is placed a series of anti-friction balls, which are of such diameter as to be one-half within
the groove in the collar. The other half of the ball is within
a groove formed one-half in the hub and the other half in the
flange upon an annular plate. The operation of this patent is
practically the same as that of the device used by the
defendant.
This device appears to be, however, a minor variation upon
the English provisional specification of 1853 to Ohinnock,
which also consisted in securing the axle in the box by means
of one or more spherical balls running in a circular channel,
formed partly in the axle and partly in the box in which it
fits. Defendants are the owners of and manufacturing under
this patent, and the fact that this and the Peters' applications
were pending before the Patent Office at the same time, and
that patents were issued upon the same day, is strong evidence
that they were not even considered as competiyive inventions.

POPE MI'F'G 00. v. GORMULLY M'F'G 00. (No. 2.) 245
Opinion of the Court.

As the defendant's manufacture was not of the elongated
rollers of the Peters' patent, but of the spherical balls of the
Chinnock, Jewett and other patents, it would seem to follow
that, if its device be an infringement of the Peters' patent, the
Peters' patent itself must be'an infringement of the prior ballbearing patents.
(3) The Moran patent, lNo. 245,54:2, of August 9, 1881, is
for a handle for velocipedes, and consists simply in providing
rubber handles for counteracting the jar on the hands in
travelling, and preventing injury to the machine when falling.
The claims are:
"1. The handle of a velocipede provided with rubber ends,
as set forth.
"2. The handle of a velocipede, in combination with rubber
tips sleeved upon its ends as-set forth.
"13. A rubber handle for a velocipede, consisting of a ball
and neck combined in one piece as set forth."
Briefly stated, this patent is for nothing more nor less than
the application of a rubber ball or cushion upon the extremities
of the handle. The patentee states in his specification that'he
only claims this rubber illits application to velocipedes, it
being a not uncommon device as applied to other handles.
We have very grave doubt as to whether this involves any
invention; but if it does, it is fully anticipated in the English
patent to Harrison, of July, 1877, which exhibits a similar
method of covering the handles of bicycles with a sheath or
glove of india-rubber. There is a slight difference in the form
of the sheath in this case, but it is identical in principle, and
used for the same purpose. Indeed, thd defendant in this connection seems to rely not upon the validity of his patent, but
upon the estoppel alleged to have arisen under the contract of
1884, which we have already held not to exist.
(4) Patent :No. 310,776, to Benham, is for a method of
attaching the horizontal handle bar to the steering head of a
bicycle, and consists in making the handle bar, which may be
either solid or tubular, continuous, and attaching to' the middl
of it a lug or detent, which serves not only to locate the handle
bar evenly and quickly by an even division of its length on

246

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

either side of the middle line of the head, but also to prevent
the handle bar when in position from turning or revolving on
its axis. The first and third claims of the patent, which are
alleged to be infringed, are as follows:
"1. The combination of an undivided bar and an openslotted lug, and two sleeve-nuts, or their equivalents, one on
either side the lug, surrounding the bar and adapted to lock it
rigidly to the lug, essentially as set forth."
"3. In combination with the handle-bar B, the detent D,
constructed and adapted to operate substantially as and for the
purposes set forth."
The patent is really for making the handle-bar in one piece
and so attaching it to the steering head of the bicycle as to
prevent any lateral or rotary movement. This is done by the
use of sleeve-nuts surrounding the handle-bar and engaging
with threaded portions of a lug through which the bar is
thrust.
If there be any scope for invention in the attachment of a
horizontal bar to a vertical one in such manner that it shall be
firm and immovable in any direction, this device appears to
have been substantially anticipated by the English patent to
Illston, issued in 1879, which shows substantially the same
elements operating for the same purpose, and in substantially
the same manner. Illston states that he makes "near the top
of the head of the bicycle or tricycle a cross-hollow bracket
open at its ends and top," corresponding to the open-slotted
lug of the Benham patent. "The said bracket has externally
a nearly cylindrical figure, and its ends are furnished with
convex screws. . . . On each side of the middle flattened
part of the handle-bar is a sliding collar milled externally, and
screwed internally with a concave screw proper to fit on the
convex screw at the end of the hollow or trough bracket on
the head." The screw collars of this patent correspond very
closely with the sleeve-nuts of the Benham patent.
Upon the whole, it does not seem to us that there was any
patentable difference between these two devices, and if there
were, we agree with the opinion of the court below, that it is
certainly not infringed by the defendants, who, while they use

POPE MT'F'G CO. v. GORMULLY M'F'G' CO.' (No. 2.) 247
Opinion of the Court.

an undivided handle-bar, have adopted a different method for
fastening the same to the steering head, and do not use either
the complainant's open-slotted lug and two sleeve-nuts or their
detent.
(5) Patent No. 323,162, of July 28, 1885, to Emmit G. Latta,
relates to a form of protecting or cushioning the pedals of a
velocipede with india-rubber. There are eight claims to this
patent, the second and third only of which are alleged to be
infringed. They are as follows:
"2. The combination, with the pedal-frame, of a rubber
pedal-bar, TH, provided with a central longitudinal groove, 7,
and two bearing-surfaces, A' A, on opposite sides of the
groove, A, substantially as set forth.
"3. The combination, with the pedal-frame,, of a rubber.
pedal-bar, H, pivoted to the frame by a rod, i, and provided
on each of its sides with a longitudinal groove, A, and two
bearing-faces, Ai' A, on opposite sides of the groove, whereby
the bar, H, is adapted to receive the pressure at its sides or
edges and be compressed on opposite sides of the rod i, substantially as set forth."
The invention in these claims consists in the pedal-bar, combined with the pedal-frame, the pedal-bar being rubber, constructed with grooves and bearing-faces; the second claim
providing for the bar being pivoted to the frame, so that it
works easily either side up, and will turn on its bearings-as
the foot presses on the front face or the rear face of the pedal.
The pedal is centrally grooved and has two bearing-faces, one
on each side of the centre-rod on which it is pivoted.
The application of india-rubber to foot-pedals is shown in
the English patent to Harrison of July, 1877, to prevent the
slipping of the feet on the pedals. This rubber is made corragated, and is placed in the same position upon the pedals as
the ordinary smooth surface rubber had been- placed. The
English patent to Jackson of 1876, also shows a treadle cast
in one piece, having suitable grooves formed therein to allow
of india-rubber being affixed-within them by means of cement.
It is entirely clear that the coating of pedals to prevent slipping being once conceded to be old, there is no novelty in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893
Statement of the Case. •

particular shape in which these rubber coverings are made, or
the form which the corrugations or groovings shall take; it is
a mere matter of taste or mechanical skill.
If there be any novelty at all in the Latta patent it must
receive such an exceedingly narrow construction that the
defendant cannot be held to have infringed it.
In short, the patents which are made the basis of this bill
are, in view of the state of the art, all of them of a trivial
character, and, so far as they possess any merit at all, are not
infringed by the devices employed by the defendant.
The decree of the court below dismissing the bill, is, therefore,
Affirmed.
POPE MANUFACTURING COMPANY v. GORMULLY
& JEFFERY MANUFACTURING COMPANY. (No. 3.)
APPEAL

FROM THE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 207. Argued March 10, 11, 1892. -Decided

April 4, 1892.

The monopoly granted by law to a- patentee is for one entire thing, and, in
order to enable an assignee to sue for an infringement, the assignment
must convey to him the entire and unqualified monopoly which the
patentee holds in the territory specified.
A conveyance by a patentee of all his right, title and interest in and to the
letters patent on velocipedes granted to him, so far as said patent relates
to or covers the adjustable hammock seat or saddle, is a mere license.
Claim 1 in letters patent No. 314,142, issued to Thomas J. Kirkpatrick
March 17, 1885, for a bicycle saddle, when construed with reference to
the previous state of the art, is not infringed by the defendants' saddle.

THis was a bill in equity for the infringement of two letters
patent, namely, 'No. 216,231, issued to John Shire, June 3,
1879, for an improvement in velocipedes, and. second, patent
No. 314,142, issued March 17, 1885, to Thomas J. Kirkpatrick,
for a bicycle saddle.
Both patents were contested by the defendant upon the
grounds of their invalidity and non-infringement, and in addition thereto it was insisted that plaintiff had no title to the

