S(UTHERN KANSAS RAILWAY CO. 'v. BRISOE.

133

Opinion of the Court.

SOUTHERN KANSAS RAILWAY COMPANYv. BRISCOE.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 869.

Submitted February 1, 1892.-Decided March 28, 1892.

Under the provisions of the act, of July 4, 1884, 23 Stat. 73, c. 179, the
United States Circuit and District Courts for the Northern District of
Texas, the Western District of Arkansas, and the District of Kansas
have concurrent jurisdiction, without reference.to the amount in controversy, and without distinction as to citizenship of the parties, over all
controversies arising. between the Southern Kansas Railway Company
and the inhabitants of the Indian nations and tribes through whose territory that eailway is constructed.

THIS was a motion "to dismiss the writ of error herein,
because the court has no jurisdiction to hear and determine
the same; or to affirm the judgment, it being manifest, that
eved if the court 'has jurisdiction, the question on which the
jurisdiction depends is so frivolous as not to need further
argument." The case is stated in the opinion.
21r. A. I
motion.

Garland-and XPL.-H.T .My in support of the

Xr. George R. Peck, Mr. A. T. Britton and .Mr. A. B.
Browne opposing.
MR.

CH.F JUSTICE FULLER •delivered the opinion of the

court.
Briscoe brought suit as an inhabitant of the Chickasaw
Nation, Indian Territory, ifr th4 District Court of the United
States for the Western District of Arkansas, against the
Southern Kansas Railway Company, to recover damages for
the wrongful killing of certain live stock by one of the defendant's trains, which was tried in the Circuit Court for that
district after the passage of the act of February 6, 1889, 25

OCTOBER TERM, '1891.
Opinion of the Court.

Stat. 655, c. 113, and judgment rendered for $896.75. The
case was brought to this court under the act of February 25,
1889, 25 Stat. 693, c. 236, on the question of the jurisdiction
of the court below.
By the act of July 4, 1884, 23 Stat 73, c. 179, Congress
granted the right of way through the Indian Territory to the
Southern Kansas Railway Company. The act defined the
route and the extent of the right of way; provided for compensation for property taken or damage done by reason of
the construction of the road; for regulating the rates for
freight, passenge.' and mail service; for the filing of maps
showing the routes of the located lines through the Territory,
in the office of the Secretary of the Interior, and also in the
office of the principal chief of the nations or tribes through
which the lines might run ; for the construction of prescribed
mileage within three yeafs; for the recording of all mortgages
executed by the company in the Department of the Interior;
and that the right of way should be accepted upon the express
.condition that the company would neither aid, adise nor
assist in any effort looking towards the changing or extinguishing the tenure of the Indians in their lands, and not
attempt to secure from the Indian nation any further grant of
land or occupancy than as provided, under penalty of forfeiture of all the rights and privileges of the company under the
act.
The eighth section reads as follows:
"That the United States Circuit and District Courts for the
Northern District of Texas, the Western District of Arkansas,
and the District of Kansas, and such other courts as may be
authorized by Congress, shall have, without -reference to the
amount in controversy, concurrent jurisdiction over all controversies arising between said Southern Kansas Railway
Company and the nations and tribes through whose territory
said railway shall be constructed. Said courts shall have like
jurisdiction, without reference to the amount in controversy,
over all controversies arising between the inhabitants of said
nations or tribes and said railway company; and the civil
jurisdiction of said courts is hereby extended within the limits

SOUTHERN KANSAS RAILWAY CO: v. BRISCOE.

135

Opinion of the Court.

of said Indian Territory, without distinction as to citizenship
of the parties, so far as may be necessary to carry out the
provisions of this act."
It was contended on behalf of defendant, before Judge
Parker, holding the Circuit Court, that the last clause of this
section, to wit, "so far as may be necessary to carry out the
provisions of this act," operated to limit the jurisdiction, conferredto such controversies as mjght arise between the nations
or inhabitants and the comppuy, in respect of the construction
of the railroad, as pertaining to the right of way, damages for
land improvements or occupancy rights thereby injured or
disturbed, etc.
The Circuit Court held otherwise, and that the courts named
in the section were properly given jurisdiction over the suit,
because as there was no remedy for a tort such as that in
question at the place where the same was committed, there
was no remedy anywhere, until given by the law under congideration, and that this constituted a right or privilege thereunder; and upon the further ground that as the act confetred
upon the corporation the right to build and run its road
through the Indian country, and to exercise the ordinary
powers. incident thereto, this rendered the suit one arising
under the laws of the United States. 40 Fed. Rep. 273.
That Briscoe was at the time mentioned an inhabitant of
the Chickasaw 1ation, where the property destroyed was,
must be assumed. The answer did not specifically put this
fact in issue, but d6nied any liability generally, and defendant
requested the court to.instruct the jury that Briscoe was not
an inhabitant, which the court refused to do, as there was evidence tending to show that he was. This left the question as
one of fact to the jury, and it was determined, in effect, in
Briscoe's favor by their verdict.
As the defendant acquired all its rights in the matter of the
construction and operation of its road within the Indian Territory under and by virtue of a law of the United States,:
enacted by Congress in the exercise of its power over the Territories, controversies arising by reason of the exercise of its
powers therein were necessarily controversies arising under

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Syllabus.

the laws of the United States, and this being so, it was competent for Congress to give the enumerated courts jurisdiction
over not only controversies immediately relating to or growing out of the construction of the road, but over all controversies between the nations and tribes or the inhabitants thereof,.
through whose territory the railroad might be constructed,
and the company.
And as the civil jurisdiction of these courts was extended
within the limits of the Territory, without distinction as to
the citizenship of the parties, "so far as may be necessary to
carry out the provisions of this act," and that might embrace
all controversies arising between the inhabitants or the nations
and tribes and the railway company, we do not regard the
addition of these words as intended to operate as a limitation
of the controversies to those growing out of the construction
of the road merely, since the section in terms applies to "all
controversies."
It is true that apart from jurisdiction over the subject matter, a citizen of a Territory cannot sue a citizen of a State in
the courts of the United States, nor an Indian tribe or nation
sue a State or its citizens, but the judicial power extends to all
cases in law and equity arising under the laws of the United
States, and this case falls within that category, and therefore
the jurisdiction in question could be conferred, as we hold that
it was.
The decision of the Circuit Court was right and its judgment is
Afirmed.

DILLMAN v. HASTIN'GS.
APPEAL

FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE

UNITED STATES FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 201. Argued March 9, 1892.-

Decided March 28, 1892.

From March, 1875, to May, 1881, D. sent to H. from time to time various
sums of money, to be lent by him for complainant at interest, H. being

