UNDERWOOD v. METROPOLITAN BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

UNDERWOOD v. IMETROPOLITAN NATIONAL
BANK.
APPEAL FOM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
No. 270. Argued and submitted April 4,1892.-Decided April 25, 1892.
M. gave to a bank a mortgage on land owned by him to secure paper
which the bank mighit discount. Among the paper so discounted was a
note made by J., which l. had discounted, and which J. paid to the bank.
The note had been given for a certificate of deposit which J. afterwards
endorsed, and subsequently paid. J. claimed subrogation under the
mortgage to the rights ol the bank as respected the certificate of deposit:
Held, that the claim could not be allowed; that the payment of the note
to the bank by J. discharged the mortgage, so far as it was a security for
the note; and that the certificate of deposit was not secured by the
mortgage.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

-Mr.James F. Xister (with whom was -Yr. Wallace Pratt
on the brief) for appellants.
.

. C. 0. Tichenor, t.or appellees, submitted on his brief.

MR. JSTICE BLATCHFOIPD delivered the opinion of the court.

The ]Mastin Bank, a Missouri.corporation, located at Kansas
City, Missouri, .became insolvent, and made an assignment,
August 3, 1878, of all. its property and assets, to one Kersey
Coates,'in trust for the benefit of all its creditors., The firm
of John J. Mastin & Co., doing business at Kansas City, was
composed of John J. Mastin and Thomas- H. Mastin, the
former of whom was cashier of the bank and the latter its
assistant cashier. Both of them were stockholders in, and
directors of, the bank.
The Mastin Bank discounted with the Metropolitan National Bank, of the city'of New York, from time to time, and
when the Mastin Bank failed it was liable for its endorsements

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

on paper so discounted by the Metropolitan Bank to -the
amount of over $200,000. The firm of John J. Mastin & Co.
endorsed for the accommodation of the Mastin Bankall of the
paper so discounted by the Metropolitan Bank. To secure
such endorsements the two Mastins and their wives, on June
7, 1878, executed a mortgage to the Metropolitan Bank, covering lands owned by them in Jackson County, Missouri, and
in the city of Kansas, in said county, and in Johnson County
and Nemaha County, Kansas, "to have and to hold the said
described real estate, with all the rights, privileges, and appurtenances thereto belonging, unto the, said Metropolitan National Bank of New York, its assigns and successors forever,
and upon this express condition: Whereas the Mastin Bank
of Kansas City, Missouri, is indebted to the said Metropolitan
National Bank as endorser on various notes, drafts, and bills
which the said Mastin Bank has sold to said Metropolitan
National Bank: -Now, -therefore, if the said Mastin Bank, its
assigns or successors, shall pay or cause to be paid all notes,
drafts, and bills so sold to the said Metropolitan National
Bank, and shall pay or cause to be paid all notes, drafts, and
bills which the said bank may hereafter sell and endorse to
the said Metropolitan National Bank, then this conveyance
shall be void; otherwise in full force and virtue at law." In
1879 the Metropolitan Bank brought a suit in equity in the
Circuit Court of the Jinited States for the Western District of
Missouri to foreclose that mortgage as to the lands lying in
-that district against the Mastins and other persons. The
Mastins did not question the validity of the mortgage.
Among the promissory notes so discounted by the Metropolitan Bank were two made by the firm of Johnson &
Crawford, composed of Augustus H. Johnson and Robert F.
Crawford, one of such notes being for $10,000, dated July 18,
1878, payable thirty days after date, at the Metropolitan
Bank, to the order of Quinlan, Montgomery & Co., and endorsed by the last-named firm, by John J. Mastin & Co., and
by the Mastin Bank, due August 20, 1878; and the other
being for $11,185, due September 19, 1878, about which no
question arises in this case.

UNDERWOOD v. METROPOLITAN BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

The firm of 'Johnson & Crawford bought a quantity of
cattle from Vne G. Baer, and to enable that firm to. do so, it
procured from the Mastin Bank the money for which the note
for $11,185, above mentioned, was given. The $10,000 note
above mentioned was given to the Mastin Bank for a certificate of deposit, which the bank issued to Baer, in the following terms:
"No. 4945.
"KAAss, Mo., July 18, 1878.
"G. Baer has deposited in the Mastin Bank, Kansas City,
Mo., ten thousand dollars, payable in c'y to the order of himself on return of this certificate, properly endorsed, thirty
days after date, payable in New York exchange.
* $10,000.00. Aug. 20.
JomiN J. MASTIix, Cashier.
"Countersigned : W. H. WiNArws, Tel."
That certificate of deposit was taken by Baer in part payment for the cattle; but shortly after he received it, he becamhe uneasy'as to the cdnditi~n of the bank, and on his
application, the firms of Johnson & Crawford and Quinlan,
Montgomery & Co., endorsed the certificate. Before it became payable, the bank failed. Johnsqn & Crawford paid
the amount of the certificate to Baer, and, also paid the
$11,185 note, at maturity, to the Metropolitan Bank, but did
not pay the $10,000 note to that bank, because they had paid
to Baer the amount of the certificate. The Metropolitan
Bank brought suit against Johnson & Crawford on the
$10,000 note. The assignee, Coates, paid to the Metropolitan
Bank, out of the assets of the Mastin Bank, dividends on'the
notes of Johnson & Crawford, amounting to $4122.08. The
Baer certificate was allowed by the assignee, who paid to
Johnson & Crawford all the dividends upon. it, except the last
one, which he did-not pay to them because he had paid dividends upon the notes to the Metropolitan Bank.
In October, 1880, Johnson having died and Jesse N. Johnson having become his administrator one F. L. Underwood,
on behalf of the firm of Johnson & Crawford, with the money
of Johnson and Quinlan, paid to the Metropolitan Bank the

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

balance of $7603.50 due on the $16,000 note. After doing
this, Underwood gave to Johnson and Quinlan a paper writing
as follows:
"KANsAs CITY,

MO., Octo. 22nd, 1880.

"I have this day bought with the money of A. W. Johnson
and C. C. Quinlan a claim based on note of Johnson & Crawford for $10,000, endorsed by Quinlan, Montgomery & Co.
& J. J. & T. H. Mastin, on which certain payments have been
made by the dividends of the Mastin Bank. This claim is in

suit against Mastins in the hands, of Karnes & Ess, and said
Johnson & Quihlan are entitled to the said claim and all
dividends made upon it, and this shall operate as an assignF. L. UNDERWOOD."
ment of said claim.
Quinlan testifies that he furnished a part of the money,
which he charged to Crawford; and Crawford testifies that

he repaid such money to Quinlan.
When Underwood paid the $7603.50 to, the Metropolitan
Bank, an agreement, dated October 20, 1880, -was signed by
the bank, as party of the first part, and by him as party of
the second part, containing the provisions set forth in the
margin.'
I First. That the said party of the first part, as endorsee from the Mastin Bank of Kansas City, Missouri, is the owner and holder of a certain
promissory note executed by Johnson & Crawford to Quinlan, Montgomery
& Co., and by said Quinlan, Montgomery & Co. endorsed, and upon which
said note there is a balance due of principal and interest, at this date, of
$7603.50, and for which suit "is now pending in the Circuit Court of the
United-States at Kansas City.
Second. On said note John J. Mastin and Thomas H. Mastin are also
endorsers, and to secure the payment of the same, with other liabilities,
said Mastins executed to said party of the first part a mortgage on certain
real estate in Missouri and Kansas, and to foreclose said mortgage suits are
now pending, one in the Circuit Court of the United States at Kansas City,
Missouri, and one in the Circuit Court of the United States at Topeka,
Kansas.
Third. For and in consideration of the sum of $7603.50 paid to said
party of the first part by said party of the second part, and the payment of
all costs in said suit thereon, said note so executed by said Johnson &
Crawford has this day been assigned and transferred, without recourse, to
said party of the second part.

UNDERWOOD v. METROPOLITAN BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

In pursuance of its agreement to that effect, made October
20, 1880, the Metropolitan Bank, on February 1, 1886, filed a
supplemental bill in its foreclosure suit, adding as defendants.
said Underwood, Crawford, and Johnson, administrator, averring 'that they claimed to have acquired an interest in the subject matter of the suit and in the mortgaged premises by
virtue of an assignment to Undlerwood of one of the notes
secured by the mortgage, in trust for Johnson & Crawford,
and praying that the three new defendants might answer, setting forth their interest in the mortgaged premises or the proceeds of their sale, or be barred and foreclosed.
On the 18th of February, 1886, Underwood, Johnson,

-

Fourth. It is also further agreed, as a part of said assignment and transfer, that the said party of the second part shall release, and hereby releases,
all claim or interest in so much of said mortgage as covers the real estate
therein described and lying in the State of Kansas; but. as to the land lying
in the State of Missouri, and covered by said mortgage, the said party of
the second part shall retain his interest therein, in consideration of thE
release of-the Kansas lands, as aforesaid; and the said party of the first
part stipulates and agrees that, in said foreclosure proceedings in Missouri,
it will file a supplemental bill, showing this, assignment of said note, and to
which said party of the second part agrees to enter his appearance and
make proper answer or plea thereto, so that the same may be determined as
a part of said foreclosure, and so that said party of the second part may
obtain such orders as he may deem necessary and proper to obtain a pro
rata division of the proceeds arising from the decree'of foreclosure.
Fifth. In all matters pertaining to said mortgage, whether by foreclosure
or otherwise, it is agreed, by and between the parties hereto, that. the same
shall be managed exclusively by said party of the first part, without any
interference or hindrance by said party of the second part: Provided,
however, that nothing shall be done to impair or affect the right of said
party of the econd part to receive his pro rata share of whatever sum may
be realized by the foreclosure, or otherwise, from the Missouri lands.
Sixth. It is also further agreed, by and between the'parties hereto, that,
except as to the Kansas lands so released as hereinbefore recited, said party
of the second part shall be entitled to receive on said. note a pro ratashare
on any other security held by said party of the first part for this and other
indebtedness of said John J. Mastin and Thomas H. Mastin.
Executed in duplicate the daand year aforesaid.
TnE MET=oroLrrAN NATIdi'AL BA-sK-OF NEw YoRK,
By KmzNEs & Ess, Att'ys.
F. L. UiDERWOOD.
VOL. cxLrv-43

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

administrator, and Crawford filed their answer to the bill of
the Metropolitan Bank, setting up the agreement of October
20, 1880, and claiming that thereby Underwood had been subrogated to the rights of the Metropolitan Bank as to the mortgaged property in Missouri; that Crawford and Johnson alone,
as between them and Quinlan, Montgomery & Co., had become
entitled to the benefit of said agreement; and that it was
made with the concurrence, sanction and approval of the
mortgagors, the Mastins.
The answer then gives the history of the Baer certificate of
deposit and of the $10,000 note, and alleges that Johnson &
Crawford and Quinlan, Montgomery & Co. paid tlie certificate
of deposit; that the consideration of the $10,000. note, as
between Johnson & Crawford on the one side, and the Mastin
Bank and the Mastins on the other, failed; that the Mastin
Bank received $10,000 from the Metropolitan Bank by the
discounting of the note; that at the time of the agreement of
October 20, 1880, payments had been made upon the note by
dividends from Coates, the assignee, on said note and on the
certificate of deposit, leaving due to the Metropolitan Bank on
the note $7640.63 at the time the agreement was made; and
that afterwards, on September 22, 1884, Coates paid a further
dividend of 20 per cent to the Mastins, being $2000, on the
certificate of deposit, which dividend, but for the said agreement, belonged to Johnson & Crawford, and to which the
Mastins had otherwise no claim.
The prayer of the answer, as a cross-bill, asked (1) that the
new defendants be subrogated to the right of the Metropolitan
Bank under the mortgage; (2) that in case the payment of the
said balance of $7640.63 to the said bank should not be held
as binding on the Mastins, the defendants should be repaid
that amount, and interest, by the bank; and (3) that they
should be repaid the amount, with interest, of all the dividends
received by the Mastins on the certificate of deposit.
The Mastins on October 29, 1886, put in an answer to the
pleading of Underwood, Crawford, and Johnson, treating it as
a cross-bill, taking issue upon its allegations of fact and law,
and setting up that, on May 18, 1886, the Metropolitan Bank

UNDERWOOD v. METROPOLITAN BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

had executed and delivered to the Mastins a quit claim deed
releasing unto them the premises in Jackson County, Missouri,
and in the city of :Kansas, covered by the mortgage, the deed
being stated to be made in release of, and in satisfaction for,
the mortgage, "the indebtedness secured by said mortgage
having been fully paid off and discharged."
Crawford and the other plaintiffs in the answer in the nature
of a cross-bill put in a replication to the answer thereto of the
Mastins.
Proofs were taken, and the case was brought to a hearing in
.the Circuit Court before Mr. Justice Brewer, who delivered an
opinion, which, though found in the record, is not reported,
and entered a decree dismissing the bill of the Metropolitan
Bank and the answer of Johnson, Crawford and Underwood
in the nature of a cross-bill, and charging the last-named three
parties and the bank" with costs. Fromfiihat decree Underwood, Johnson, administrator, and Crawford have appealed to
this court.
The Circuit Court arrived at the conclusion that it was shown
satisfactorily by the evidence that the agreement of October
20, 1880, was made with the assent of the Mastins, but it,found
that the $10,000 note had been paid and extinguished by the
makers of it, who were primarily responsible upon it; and
that, as the mortgage was given to secure discounts, when the
makers of the note discounted had paid it, the mortgage, as
security for such discount, was at an end. It also said, that,
as the Mastin Bank had given, for the $10,000 note, instead of
cash, the Baer certificate of deposit, and as that certificate was
executed by the .Mastin Bank alone, and was not a personal
obligatiori of the mortgagors, and as Johnson & Crawford, at
the request of Baer, had endorsed the certificate of deposit,
and, before that certificate matured, the Mastin Bank failed,
and Johnson & Crawford took up the certificate of deposit and
held it at the time the agreement 9f October 20, 1880, was
made, and on the ground that the practical effect of that agreement was to make the partial assignment which it contained
of the mortgage operate as security for the certificate of
deposit, it was claimed that Johnson & Crawford, having paid

OCTOBER TE.RAI, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

the $10,000 note, and holding the certificate of deposit, ought
to bd permitted to transfer to the certificate the security of the
mortgage, and that the assent of the Mastins to the arrangement made by the agreement of October 20, 1880, was equivalent to an appropriation of the mortgage as security for the
certificate, and entitled Johnson & Crawford to be subrogated
to the rights of the Metropolitan Bank under the mortgage.
But it held that the Mastins had never said or done anything
to make the mortgage a security for the certificate of deposit,
and that the payment of the $10,000 note to the Metropolitan
Bank by Johnson & Crawford discharged the mortgage, so far
as it was a security for that note.
We concur in these views. The certincate of deposit is not
mentioned in the agreement of October 20, 1880. It was an
obligation of the Mastin Bank, and not of the Mastins. It was
not endorsed by the Mastins; and, as said by the Circuit Court,
to give to Johnson & Crawford a claim under the mortgage in
respect of the certificate of deposit, would be for the court to
make a contract which the parties did not make, simply on the
ground that the court thinks the parties ought to have made
such a contract.
The debt to the Metropolitan Bank, on account of which
vJohnson & Crawford claimed subrogation, was their own debt,
for which they were primarily liable, as makers .of the note,
and on which no one else was liable except as endorser. The
note was paid by them as makers, and not by a third party.
They seek to be subrogated to rights under a mortgage which
was given to the Metropolitan Bank by the Mastins as accommodation endorsers, to secure accommodation endorsements.
The payment of the note by Johnson & Crawford made it
impossible'for the condition of the mortgage to be broken in
regard to the note; and the anomalous claim is made, that the
payment by then of a debt owed by them to the Metropolitan
Bank, to secure which debt the mortgage was given, instead of
satisfying the mortgage in regard to that note, operates as a
breach of the condition of the mortgage, which will sustain a
foreclosure. No such principle can exist in a court of equity.
It would be superfluous to cite authorities on the subject.

UNITED STATES v. EATON.
Syllabus.

The agreement of October 20, 1880, recites that the Mastins
are endorsers on the note in question, and that they executed
the mortgage to secure the payment of that note, with others.
The endorsement of the Baer certificate by Johnson & Crawford was made after it was delivered to Baer. They did -not
endorse it at the request of the Mastin Bank or of the Mastins;
and, as before said, the Mastins were in io way parties to the
certificate. Johnson & Crawford endorsed and paid the certificate voluntarily, and, so far as appears,.without consideration. The endorsement of the $10,000 note by the Mastns; as
accommodation endorsers of it for the Mastin Bank, could not,
on the facts, operate as an endorsement by the iMastins of the
certificate of deposit. It does not appear that the Metropolitan Bank, in executing the agreement of October 20, 1880, had
ever heard of the certificate of deposit; and that agreement
operated merely as a permit bythe Metropolitan Bank to Johnson & Crawford to take a share of the proceeds of the- sale,
.under the mortgage, of the property of the Mastins.
The payment to the Metropolitan Bank of the note,' by
Johnson & Crawford as its makers, operated to extinguish the
claim and suit of that bank against, them as such makers, and
thus was of benefit to the Mastins as endorsers of the note; but
Johnson & Crawford were in no different position after the
agreement of October 20, 1880, was made, from what they
-were in before that time, for they paid voluntarily a debt as to
which they were the primary debtors. The Mastins received
nothing by reason of the agreement.

Decee,affimw.

UNITED STATES 'v.EATON,
CERTIFICATE OF DIVISION IN OPINION FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT
OF THE- UNITEP STATES FOR THE DISTRICT'OF ITA SSACHUSETTS.
No. 291. Submitted April 12,1892.-

Decided April 25, 1892.

A regulation made August 25, 1886, by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, with the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury, under ยง 20 of

