BROWN v. MASSACHUSETTS.
Statement of the Case.

314. In that case it was held that the affirmative description
of jurisdiction. implied a "negative on the exercise of such
appellate power as is not comprehended within it." And
here the appellate jurisdiction is Aiot left to inference, but is
taken away in terms after the date mentioned.
Appeal dismissed.

BROWN v. MASSAOHUSETTS.
ERROR TO THE SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF MASSACHUSETTS.
1No.839. Argued April 6,1892.-Decided April 18,1892.
A defendant indicted in a state court for*forging discharges for money
payable by a municipal corporation, with intent to defraud it, pleaded in
abatement to the array of the grand jury, and to the array of the traverse
jury, that all the" jurors were inhabitants of the municipality, but did
not at that stage of the case claim in any 'form a right or immunity
under the Constitution of the United States. After conviction, the defendant, by motion in arrest of -judgment, and by exception to the jurisdiction of the court, objected that the proceedings were in violation of
the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States for
the same reason, and also because the selectmen of the municipality who
prepared the jury list, and took the principal part in drawing the jurors,
were at the same time actively promoting this prosecution. The highest
court of the State held the objections takenbefore verdict to be unfounded, and those after verdict to be taken too late. Held, that this
court had no jurisdiction to review the judgment on writ of error.

AN indictment was found by the grand jury in the superior
court for the county of Nantucket and Commonwealth of

Massachusetts, on c. 204, §§ 1, 2, of the Public Statutes of
Massachusetts, containing twenty-four counts, each of which
was for forging, or for uttering, a discharge for money pay-

able by the county of Nantucket, or by the town of Nantucket,
with intent to defraud the county; or the town.

The town and county of Nantucket are geographically identical; the selectmen of the town have the powers of county
commissioners; the town may raise money to pay the expenses of the county; and the treasurer of the town is county
treasurer. Mass. Pub. Stat. c. 22, § 29; c. 23, § 4.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

By the general jury act of Massachusetts, in every town,
lists of persons qualified to serve as jurors are prepared annually by the selectmen, and are subject to revision by the town
in town meeting; and all grand jurors and traverse jurors are
d-rawn by lot from the names on such lists. -Mass. Pub. Stat.
c. 170, §§ 6-22. That act contains the following provisions:
"SEO. 38. In indictments and penal actions for the recovery
of a sum of money or other thing forfeited, it shall not be a
cause of challenge to a juror that he is liable to pay taxes
in. a county, city or town, which -may -be benefited by such
recovery.
"SEC. 39. If a party knows of an objection to a juror in
season to propose it before the trial, and omits to do so, he
shall not afterwards be allowed to make the same objection,
unless by leave of the court.
"Sxc. 40. No irregularity in a writ of venire facias, oir in
the drawing, summoning, returning or empanelling of jurors,
shall be sufficient to set aside a verdict, unless the party
making the objection was injured by the irregularity, or
unless the objection was made before the returning of the
verdict."
The act of Massachusetts concerning proceedings before
judgment in criminal cases contains this provision: "No motion in arrest of judgment shall be allowed for a cause existing before verdict, unless the same affects the jurisdiction of
the court." -Mass. Pub. Stat. c. 214, § 27.
The defendant pleaded in abatement to the array of the
grand jury, and afterwards to the array of the traverse jury,
upon several grounds, the only one of which relied on at the
argument in this court was "because the names of said jurors
were not. drawn from the list of jurors in the manner provided
by law." The district attorney filed a replication to each plea;
and at the hearing thereon it appeared that the crimes charged
in the indictment were committed, if at all, in regard to
vouchers presented to the town and county treasurer, with
intent to defraud the town or the county; and the defendant
requested the court to rule, "that by reason of bias and interest a grand jury" (or "a jury") "drawn and made up from

BROWN{ v. MASSACHUSETTS.
Statement of the Case.

the inhabitants of the town and county of Nantucket was not
competent" to make a presentment" (or "to try an indictment") "for crimes against the county or town treasury."
The court declined so to rule, and overruled each plea; the
defendant duly excepted to each ruling, and pleaded not
guilty, and was thereupon tried and convicted; and his exceptions were overruled by the Supreme Judicial Court of
Massachusetts, for reasons stated in the rescript sent down to
the superior court as follows: "The jurors were not disqualified to serve by reason of interest as inhabitants of the. town
or county of Nantucket." The opinion then delivered is annexed to the transcript of the record, as required by Rule 8 of
this court, and is reported in 14T Mass. 585.
The defendant then filed in the Superior Court a motion in
arrest of judgment, renewing the same objections to the grand
and traverse juries; and further alleging that before the finding of the indictment the selectmen had been directed, by a
vote of the town at a meeting duly warned, to prosecute the
defendant for the offences described in the indictment, and
pursuant to that vote employed counsel, and a majority of
them, with the approval, of -the others, made a complaint
)against the defendant for those offences before a trial justice,
who was himself an inhabitant and voter of the town, and had
taken part in the town meeting and in its vote, and had there
declared that the defendant was guilty, and, before the making of the complaint, had advised and counselled with the
selectmeii as to the furtherance of the prosecution; that the
selectmen prosecuted the complaint, and obtained an order
from the justice requiring the defendant to recognize for his
appearance before the superior court, and prepared evidene
and sought out witnesses to be produced against him before.
the grand jury; that while 6ngaged in furthering such prosecution the selectmen prepared the list from which were drawn
the grand and traverse jurors who found and tried the indictment against the defendant;. that at the town meeting at
which such jurors were drawn no one was present, except the
selectmen, and the constable who had served the warrant for
the meeting; that of the twenty-three grand jurors who found

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

the indictment, all but five had been present at the t6wn meeting first mentioned, and had joined in the vote there adopted;
and that for these reasons "the presentment and the trial and
conviction of the defendant were in conflict with the provisions
of the constitution of this Commonwealth, and in particular
of the provisions of the twelfth article of the Declaration of
Rights, and were in conflict with the Constitution of the
United States of America, and in particular with the provisions
of the Fourteenth Amendment thereto."
Together with the motion in arrest of judgment, the defendant filed an "exception to the jurisdiction," containing
like allegations, and further alleging that by reason of the
facts alleged the grand jurors had no authority to present, and
the traverse jurors had, no authority to try, the indictment
against the defendant, and the court had no jurisdiction to
receive the presentment or to try the matter thereof.
At the hearing of this motion and exception the district
attorney admitted the facts alleged therein. The court overruled the motion and the exception. The defendant appealed
from the order overruling the motion in arrest of judgment,
and alleged exceptions to the overruling of his exception to
the jurisdiction.
The Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts affirmed the
order, and overruled the exceptions, for reasons stated in its
rescript to the superior court as follows: "A motion in arrest
of judgment can be sustained only for errors apparent on the
record. The record discloses no error. The exception to the
jurisdiction is nothing but a motion in arrest of judgment
under another name."
In the opinion then delivered, and duly transmitted to this
court with the record, the Supreme Judicial Court, after deciding the case upon the grounds stated in this rescript, added:
"It is difficult to see how any question deserving serious consideration arises under the Constitution, either of this State or
of the United States. In view of the authorities cited in the
former opinion in this case, it can hardly be argued that a
legislature" has no constitutional authority to provide that
mere inhabitancy in a town or county shall not disqualify one

BROWN v. MASSACHUSETTS.
Argument for Plaintiff in- Error.

from sitting as a juror to try a prisoner for unlawfully obtaining money from -the treasury of the town or county. It has
not been contended before us, that our statute forbidding the
allowance of a motion in arrest of judgment for a cause existing before verdict, unless it affects the jurisdiction of the court,
is unconstitutional, nor that the rule which confines proceedinpgs
upon motions in arrest to.matters apparent upon the record is
in conflict either with the. Federal or State Constitution. We
are of-opinion that there was.no error in the proceedings in the
superior court." 150 Mass. 334, 343.
The superior court thereupon sentenced the defendant to
imprisonment in the house of correction for two years and six
months, and he sued out this writ of error.
By the practice in Massachusetts, wh~ere a bill of exceptions
or an appeal in matter of law is taken to the Supreme Judicial
Court, the question of law only goes -to that court, and the
-record, unless ordered up by that court, remains in the court
below; and therefore this writ of error was addressed to the
superior court. Mass. Pub. Stat. c. 150, § 7, 12; c. 153, § 15;
cJfGuire v. Commonwealth, 3 Wall. 382; Bryan v. Baties, 12
Allen, 201, 205 ; Commonwedt v.. Scott, 123 Mass. 418.

Mr. B?. D. Weston-Smith (with whom was -M. H. W.
Chaplin on the brief) for plaintiff in error.
The composition of the gind jury and the traverse jury
exclusively from the inhabitants of the county and town of
Nantucket made them necessarily a partial tribunal. Impar.tiality is of. course never absolute, but always relative. Nevertheless it is a requirement, and it is for the courts - and under
the Fourteenth Amendment for this court - to draw the line
in any given case. The plaintiff in error was presented by a
grand jury and tried by a trial jury, composed exclusively of
the town and county corporations against which his alleged
crime was directed. This was in violation of the first principles of justice.. These grand and petit jurors were all
disqualified.
The position of the selectmen as acting prosecutors under a
voL. cxLIv-37

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

vote of the town made them incompetent, under the Fourteenth Amendment, to prepare the preliminary list of jurors.
It made them incompetent to compose, in their individual
capacity, substantially the whole town meeting held to revise
that list and make it final. Seven men who were prosecuting the plaintiff in error for the offences finally embodied in
the-indictment against him made up a list, from which, exclusively, was drawn the grand jury which indicted him, and
from which was made up the trial jury. The .fruits of this
action are seen in the fact that eighteen out of the twentythree grand jurors were persons who had voted for the proscution which these prosecutors were promoting before them.
A grand jury so made up was as to this defendant a mere
travesty of a grand juty, and was a nullity. The objection to
it was jurisdictional; AfcGregor v. Crane, 98 -Mass. 530; Richardson v. TWelcome, 6 Cush. 331; and as such may be taken at
any stage. When an objection of this character goes to the
-roots of the administration of justice, it is never too late to
take it. This objection was one of such gravity that it could
not be waived. Hopt v.. Utah, 110 U. S. 574; Hill v. People,
16 Michigan, 351; Williams v. Ohio, 12 Ohio St. 622; Cancemi v. People, 18 .. Y. 128; Harris v. People, 128 Illinois,
585; .McGregorv. Crane,cited above; Richardson v. Welcome,
cited above.
If any state statute stands in the way of the plaintiff in
error upon this point, it is, when it operates upon 'objection.
so important as are now made, in conflict with the Fourteenth
Amendment, as unduly clogging remedies. Callanv. Wilson,
127 U. S. 540.
Even if this new question of fact does not, within the
strictest meaning of the word "go to jurisdiction," it involves
so gross an impropriety, and an abuse of the forms of justice
so- extreme as, in a proper exercise of judicial discretion, to
vitiate the whole proceeding. Hopt v. Utah, cited above;
Edson,v. Edson, 108 Mass. 590; Oakley v. A,!pinwall, 3 N. Y.
547.
The fact that eighteen out of twenty-three grand jurors
had joined in the vote for the prosecution which was being

BROWN v.. MASSACHUSETTS.
Opinion of the Court.

carried on before t em by the agents of their town, whom
they had helped to constitute such, made them, substantially,
prosecutors,- and disqualified them. Their action violated the
first principle of justice: that no man shall be prosecutor and
judge at the same time. This objection is,. like the objection
last referred to, of so vital a character that it cannot be
waived. It is jurisdictional, or quasi-jurisdictional, and niay
be raised at any stage of the cause.
Mr. Albert . Pilsbury, .ttorney General of the State of
:Massachusetts, for defendant in error.
Mn. JUSTIOE GRAY, after stating the case as above, delivered
the opinion of the court.
In order to give this court jurisdiction, under section 109 of
the Revised Statutes, to review on writ of error a decision of
the highest court of a State against a title, right, privilege or
immunity claimed under the Constitution of the United States,
it must, as observed by Chief Justice Waite in Svies v. llinois, "appear on the record that such title, right, privilege or
.immunity was 'specially set up or claimed' at the proper
time in the proper way." 123 U. S. 131, 181.
In the case at bar, the only ground, on which it has been
argued that the judgment of the Supreme Judicial Court of
Massachusetts should be reversed, is that the plaintiff in error
has been deprived of his liberty without due process of law,
in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution
of the United States, because the grand jury by .which he
was indicted, and the traverse jury by which he was tried and
convicted, were wholly composed of inhabitants of the town
and county of Nantucket, which the indictment charged him
with intending to defraud, and because the selectmen of the
town, who prepared the jury list, and took the principal part
in drawing the jurors, were at the same time actively promoting this prosecution.
No objection that the proceedings were in violation of the
Constitution of the United States was taken in any form,

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

either expressly, or by any possible inference or implication,
before verdict.
Nor was any such objection duly presented afterwards. In
Massachusetts, as elsewhere, the errors suggested could not
be availed of by motion in arrest of judgment, unless appearing on the face of the record. Commonwealti v. Edwards,
12 Cush. 187; Calrter v. Bem ett, 15 How. 354. And by the
statutes of the State, the defendant was not entitled, after
verdict, to object to the qualifications of the jur6rs, or to any
irregularity in drawing them; nor could he move in arrest of
judgment for any cause existing before verdict, and not affecting the jurisdiction of the court. Mass. Pub. Stat. c. 176, §§
39,40; c. 21i, § 27. The objections taken did not affect the
jurisdiction of the court in which the. plaintiff in error was
indicted and convicted, but only the regularity of the proceedings in obtaining the grand and traverse jurors. Ex parte
larding,120 U. S. 782. The anomalous "exception to the
jurisdiction," filed after verdict, was held, and rightly held, by
the state court to be nothing but a motion in arrest of judgment under another name.
The judgment of the highest' court of the State was put
upon the ground that these objections were not open after
verdict, independently of the opinion of that court that the
objections had.no merits. As that ground was sufficient to
support the judgment, no federal question is involved, and
this court has no jurisdiction. The case cannot be distinguished in principle from Baldwin v. Xansas, 129 U. S.52.
IWrit of error dismissedfor want of jurisdiction.

