O'NEIL v. VERMONT.
Syllabus.

validity or construction of a treaty, or in which it is contended
that the constitution or a law of a State contravenes the Constitution of the United States, is not now before us for
decision.
The provision of section 6, giving the Circuit Courts of
Appeals in general' terms appellate jurisdiction of criminal cases,
says nothing as to the party by whom the writ of error may
be brought, and cannot therefore be presumed to have been
intended to confer upon the government the right to bring it.
In none of the provisions of this act, defining the alppellate
jurisdicticn, either of this court, or of the Circuit Court of
Appeals, is there any indication of an intention to confer upon
the United States the right to bring up a criminal case of any
grade after judgment below in favor of the defendant. It is
impossible to presume an intention on the part of C6ngress to
make so serious and far-reaching an innovation in the criminal
jurisprudence of the United States.
Writ of.error diemissedfor want ofjurisdiotion.

Q'NEIL v. VERMONT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF VERMONT.
No. 6. .Argued January 20,1892.- Decided April 4, 1892.

A complaint, in Vermont; before a justice of the peace, for selling intoxicating liquor without authority, was in the form prescribed by the
state statute, which also provided, that, under such form of complaint every distinct act of selling might be proved, and that the court
should impose'a fine for each offence. -After a conviction and sOntence
before the justice of the peace, the defendant appealed to the county
court, where the case was tried before a jury. The defendant did not
take the point, in either court, .that there was any defect or want of ful
ness in the complaint. The jury found the defendant guilty of 307
offences, as of a second conviction for a like offence. He was fined
$6140, being 520 for each offence, and the costs of prosecution, $497.96,
and ordered to be committed until the sentence should be complied with,
and it was adjudged, that if the fine and costs, and 76 cents, as costs of

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.
commitment, aggregating $6638.72, should not be paid before a day
named, he should be confined at hard labor, in the house of correction,
for 19,914 days, being, under a statute of the State, three days for each
dollar of the $6638. The facts of the case were contained in a written
admission, and the defendant excepted because the court refused to hold
that the facts did not constitute an offence. The case was heard by the
Supreme Court of the State, (58 Vermont, 140,) which held that there
was no error. On a writ of error from this court; 11e14,
(1) The term of imprisonment was authorized by the statute of Vermont;
(2) It was not assigned in this court, as error, ifithe, assignment of
errors or in the brief, that the defendant was subjected to cruel
and unusual punishment, in violation of the Constitution of the
United States;
(3) So far as that is a question arising under the constitution of Vermont, it is not within the province of this court;
(4) As a Federal question, the 8th Amendment to the Constitution of the
United States does not apply.to the States;
(5) No point on the commerce clause of the Constitution of the United
States was taken in the county court, in regard to the present
case, or considered by the Supreme Court of Vermont or called to
its attention;
(6) The only question considered by the Supreme Court, in regard to the
present case, was whether the defendant sold the liquor in Vermont or in New York, and it held that the completed sale was in
Vermont; and that did not involve any Federal question;
(7) As the defendant did not take the point in the trial court that there
was any defect or want of fulness in the complaint, he waived it;
and it did not involve any Federal question;
(8) The Supreme Court of Vermont decided the case on a ground broad
enough to maintain its judgment without considering any Federal
question;
(9) The writ of error must be dismissed for want of jurisdiction in this
court, because the record does not present a Federal question.

T.HIs case came on for argument in regular course on the
4th day of December in October term, 1889. The court
ordered the case to be passed to be heard before a full bench.
When reached at October term, 1890, it was again passed in
consequence of the illness of counsel. The case as now made
is stated in the opinion of the court.
-Mr. A. H. Garland for plaintiff in error. Mr. Charles
7. Joyce and -Mr. Joel C. Baker filed briefs for same.

O'NEIL v. VERMONT.

325

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. George F. Edbmunds for defendant in error.
?ed)feld KendalU was on the brief for same.
MR. JusTIoE BLATCo'ORD

-Hr.,P.

delivered the opinion of the c6urt.

On the 26th of December, 1882, a grand juror, of the town
of Rutland, in the county of Rutland and State of Vermont,
made a written complaint, on his oath of office, before a justice
,of the peace of that county, that John O'Neil of Whitehall,
New York, on December 25th, 1882, at Rutland, at divers
times, did "sell, furnish and give away intoxicating liquor,
without authority,"' and contrary to the statute, and further,
that O'Neil, at the March term, 1879, of the Rutland County
court, had been convicted of selling, furnishing and giving
away intoxicating liquors, against the law. Thereupon the
justice issued a warrant for the arrest of O'Neil. :e was
arrested and brought before the justice, and pleaded not

guilty.
The statute of Vermont under which the prosecution was
instituted is embodied in § 3800 and 3802 of chapter 169 of
the Revised Laws of Vermont of 1880, (pp. 734, 735,) in these
words:
"Section 3800. No person shall, except as .otherwise especially provided, manufacture, sell, furnish or give away,
by himself, clerk, servant or agent, spirituous or intoxicating
liquor, or mixed liquor of which a part is spirituous or intoxicating, or malt liquors or lager beer; and the phrase 'intoxicating liquors' where it occurs in this chapter shall be held to
include such liquors and beer.
"The word 'furnish,' where it occurs in this chapter, shall
apply to cases where a person knowingly brings into or transports within the State for another person intoxicating liquor
intended to be sold or disposed of contrary to law, or to be
divided among or distributed to others.
"The words ' give away,' where they occur in this chapter,
shall not apply to the giving of intoxicating liquor at private
dwellings,.or their dependencies, unless given to an habitual
drunkard, or unless such dwelling or its *dependencies become
a place of public resort.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

"But no person shall furnish or give away intoxicating
liquor at an assemblage of persons gathered to erect a building or frame of a building, or to remove a building or at a
public gathering for amusement.
"INothing in this chapter shall prevent the manufacture,
sale and use of wine for the commemoration of the Lord's
supper, nor the manufacture, sale and use of cider, or, for
medical purposes only, of wine made in the State from grapes
or other fruits, the growth of the State, and which is without
the admixture of alcohol or spirituous liquor, nor the manufacture by any one for his own use of fermented liquor.
"But no person shall sell or furnish cider or fermented liquor
at or in a victualling house, tavern, grocery, shop, cellar or
other place of public resort, or at any place to an habitual
drunkard."
"Sec. 3802. If a person by himself, clerk, servant or
agent, sells, furnishes or gives away; or owns, keeps or possesses with intent to sell,. furnish or give away, intoxicating
liquor or cider in violation of law, he shall forfeit for each
offence to the State, upon the first conviction ten dollars and
costs of prosecution; on the second conviction he shall forfeit
for each offence twenty dollars and costs of prosecution, and
shall also be imprisoned one month; and on the third and
subsequent convictions he shall forfeit for each offence twenty
dollars and the costs of prosecution, and shall also be imprisoned
not less than three months nor more than six months."
The complaint was in the form prescribed by § 3859 of the
Revised Laws of Vermont, for offences against § 3802; and
§ 3860 provides that under such form of complaint "every
distinct act of selling" may be proved, "and the court shall
impose a fine for each offence."
The justice, after hearing the proofs of the parties, entered
judgment finding O'Neil guilty of 457 offences, second conviction, of selling intoxicating liquors in violation of chapter
169 of the Revised Laws, and adjudging that he pay to the
treasurer of the State a fine of $9140, and the costs of prosecution, taxed at $472.96, and be confined at hard labor in the
house of correction at Rutland for the term of one month,

O'INEIL 'v. VERMONT.
Opinion of the Court.

and that, in case such fine and costs should not be paid on or
before the expiration of said term of one month's imprisonment, he should be confined at .hard labor in the house of
correction at Rutland forthe further tern of 28,836 days, to
be computed from the expiration of said term of onv moith's
impiisonmuent. From that judgment O'Neil appealed to the
county court of Rutland County. The appeal was allowed,
and he gave bail for his appearance.
In the county court O'Neil pleaded not guilty, and the
case was tried by a jury. He did not take the point, either
before the justice of the peace or the county court, that there
was any defect or want of fulness in the. complaint. Any
such point was waived, by the failure to take it. Besides, it
did not involve any' Federal question. The question of the
coniolidation of several offences in one complaint is purely a
matter of state practice, gnd. it is a familiar rule of criminal
law, that time need not be, proved as alleged.
.The jury found O'Neil guilty of 307 offences "of selling
intoxicating liquor without authority and contrary to the laws
of Vermont, as of a second conviction for a like offence." He
filed exceptions, which state that,, for the purpose of the trial,,
he admitte a the following facts: "The respondent, John
O'Neil, of Whitehall, in the county of Washington and State
of New York, is a wholesale and retail dealer -in wines and
liquors at said Whitehall, and has been so engaged in business
there for more than three years last past, and that said business by him carried on is a lawul and legitimate* business
under the laws of the State of New York as conducted by
him there.' That during the last three years the respondent
has received at his store, in said Whitehall, three hundred and
seven separate and distinct orders by mail, telegraph and
express, for specified and designated small quantities of intoxi-eating liquors, from as many different parties residing in Rutland, in the State of Vermont. The orders so sent by express
were iii the form of a letter addressed to the said John O'Neil
at Whitehall aforesaid, and the letter attached to a jug, and
the jug, with the letter attached, was delivered by said parties
to the National Express. Company, in Rutland, and charges

OCTOBER TERTI, 1891.
Opinion. of the Court.

thereon paid by the parties so sending the order. Orders sent
by mail were by letters or postal cards deposited in the postoffices at said Rutland, directed to John O'Neil at Whitehall,
New York, and postage paid thereon. Orders sent by telegraph wete delivered by the sender at the telegraph offices in
said Rutland, directed to said John O'Neil, Whitehall, New
York, and charges paid by the sender, which orders requested
the respondent to send said intoxicating liquors to the parties
ordering the same at said Rutland, and in more than one-half
the number of instances said orders directed him to send said
liquors by express, C. 0. D., and in the other instances, where
the orders did not specify, it was th e intention of the purchaser to have the goods so sent to him. It is the usual course
of trade for merchants receiving an order from a considerable distance for goods in small quantities, to send the san~e
by express, 0. 0. D., when the order is not from a rgular
customer or a party of known responsibility. That upo L the
receipt of said orders the respondent has in each case measured out the liquors called for in his order at' his store in
Whitehall aforesaid, and packed the same in jugs or other
vessels, and attached to each package a tag, upon which was
written the name and address of the party orderi g the same,
and delivered each package so directed and addressed, at
Whitehall, aforesaid, to the National Express Company, a
New, York corporation, a common carrier, doing business
between New York and Montreal and including the route
between said Whitehall and said Rutland, and each of said.
packages also had upon said tag the name and business card
of the respondent, and none of said packages were in any
manner disguised, and all of them were sealed with wax. It
was not stated on the jugs or tags what they contained. The
respondent at the same. tim.e delivered to said express company a bill of said liquor, which said carrier placed in an
envelope, marked 0. 0. D., which envelope had endorsed
thereon, among other things, the following instructions: ' Do
not deliver the whole or any part of the goods accompanying
this bill until you receive pay therefor. Be careful to notice
what money you receive, and, as far as practicable, send the

O'N EIL v. VERMONT.

I

Opiniont of the Court.

same as received and follow the special instructions of the
shipper, if any are given, on the bills. If goods are refused or'
the parties cannot be found, notify the office from whence received, with names and dates, and await further instructions '
- meaning thereby that said express company should receive
the amount of said bill upon the delivery of the package to
the consignee, and that without payment of said bill the said
liquor should not be delivered; that, in the usual and ordinary
course of business of said carrier in such cases, the said expres
company delivered each of said packages to the consignee,
named upon said tag, at Rutland, and at the same time "nd
cohcurrently with such delivery received the amount of the
said bill in the 0. 0. D. envelope, the amount of freight foi
the transportation of said package from Whitehall to Rutlamd,A
and the charges for returning said money to the respondent.
at Whitehall. The express company placed said money for
the payment of said bill in the same envelope and returned'
it to the respondent at Whitehall. The respondent did nothing to or with said liquors after the said packages we're deliv'
ered by him at said Whitehall to said common caxrrier, and
the said several consign6es received the sam6 and made pqy-.
ment as aforesaid, at -Rutland,as and under the contract made,
as aforesaid, through their said orders so sent to the respondent at Whitehall. That it -is the usual and ordinary course of
business of said express company, in case goods are refused or
the consignees cannot be found, for the office to which goods
are sent to notify the office from which they were shipped to
notify the consignor of the facts, and the consignor would be
consulted and his orders taken and followed as to the disposition of the gbods, and this would be the same whether goods
were sent 0. 0. D. or otherwise. The respondent .gve no
specIal directions as to any of the packages shipped as aforesaid." It appears clearly, from this admission of facts, that
the charges paid in Ritland, to the. express company, when
the empty jug. was sent from Rutland, iheluded only the
charges for the transportation of the empty jug to Whitehall,
and that the amount of freight fov- the transportation of the
packages containing liquor, from Whitehall to Rutland, was

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

paid when it was delivered to its consignee at Rutland, simultaneously with the payment of the bill for the liquor, and of
the charges for returning the money to Whitehall.
The exceptions state that O'Neil requested the court to
instruct the jury that the facts set forth in his admission did
not constitute an offence against the statute, under the complaint in .the cause, but the court refused so to hold, and he
excepted; that he requested the court also to instruct the jury
that, under the facts set forth in his admission, they ought to
find him not guilty, but the court refused so to instruct the
jury, and he excepted; that the court charged the jury, that
if they believed the facts set forth in the admission to be true,
the same made a case upon which the jury should find a verdict of guilty against him, to which instruction he excepted;
that evidence was given that at the March term, 1879, of the
Rutland County court, he was convicted of selling, furnishing
and giving away intoxicating liquors; and that the court adjudged, upon the verdict and the evidence, that he was guilty
of 307 offences of selling, intoxicating liquor without authority, as of a second conviction. The exceptions were allowed,
and for their trial the sentence was respited, execution stayed
and the cause passed to the Supreme Court of Vermont.
The judgment of the county court, as entered, was, that
O'Neil pay a fine of $6140, and the costs of prosecution, taxed
at $497.96, and stand committed until the sentence should be
complied with; and that if the said fine and costs, and costs
of commitment, ascertained. to be 76 cents, the whole aggregating $6638.72, should not be paid before March 20, 1883, he
should be confined at hard labor, in the house of correction at
Rutland, for the term of 19,914 days.
The case was heard in the Supreme" Court, and a decision'
was rendered in the gener-al term, the Chief Judge and six
Assistant Judges being present, at October term, 1885, which
is reported in 58 Wermont, 140. The judgment of the Supreme
Court was, that the judgment of ihe county court-was not in
anywise erroneous or defective and there was not any error
in the proceedings. O'Neil has sued out a writ. of eiror from
this court to review that judgment.

O'NEIL v. VERMONT.

331

Opinion of the Court.

The trial and conviction of O'Neil in the county court were
solely for "selling intoxicating liquor without authority."
The punishment prescribed therefor by § 3802 was that "on
the second conviction, he shall forfeit for each offence twenty
dollars and costs of prosecution, and shall also be imprisoned
one month." The term of confinement for 19,914 days was
three days for each dollar of the $6638, under § 4366 of the Revised Laws of Vermont, which prescribes that time of imprisonment in default of payment of the fine and costs in criminal
cases. It is not assigned in this. court, as error, in the assignment of errors, or in the brief for O'Neil, that he was subjected
to cruel and unusual punishment, in violation of the Constitution of the United States. It appears by the report of the
case in 58 Vermont, that he. took the point in the Supreme
Court of- Vermont, that the statute of that State was repugnant to the 8th Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States and to that of Yermont, in that it allowed "cruel and
unusual punishment." That court gaid, in its opinion: "The
constitutional inhibition of cruel and unusual punishments, or
excessive fines or bail, has no application. The punishment
imposed by statute for the offence with which the respondent,
O'Neil, is charged, cannot be said to be excessive or oppressive.
If he has subjected himself to a severe penalty, it is simply
because he has committed a 0reat many such offences. It
would scarcely be competent for a person to assail the constitutionality"of the statute prescribing a punishment for burglary, on 'the ground that he had committed so many burglaries
that, if punishment for each were inflicted on him, he might
be kept in prison for life. The mere fact that cumulative
punishments may be imposed for distinct offences in the same
prosecution is not material upon this question. If the penalty
were unreasonably severe for a single offence, the constitutional question might be urged; but here the unreasonableness
is only in the number of offences which the respondent has
committed." We forbear the consideration of .this question,
because as a Federal question, it is hot a~signed as error, nor
even suggested in the brief of the plaintiff in error; and, so
far as it is a question arising, under the constitution of Ver-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

mont, it is not within our province. Moreover, as a Federal
question, it has always been ruled that the 8th Amendment
to the Constitution of the United States does not apply to the
States. Pervear v. The Commonwealth, 5 Wall. 475.
The opinion of the Supreme Court of Vermont was delivered
by Chief Judge Royce. The case being one for selling intoxicating liquors contrary to law, the court stated the question to
be, whether the liquors were sold by O'INeil, in contemplation
of law, in Rutland County, and said that the answer depended
upon whether the National Express Company, by which the
liquors were delivered to the consignees thereof, was in law
the agent of the vendor or of the vendees; that, if the purchase and sale of the liquors was fully completed in the State
of New York, so that, upon delivery of them to the express
company for transportation, the title vested in the consignees,
as in the case of - a completed and unconditional sale, then no
offence-against the law of Vermont had been committed; but
that if, on the other hand, the sale, by its terms, could become
complete, so as to pass the title in the liquors to the consignees, only upon the doing of some act, or the fulfilling of
some condition' precedent, after they reached Rutland, then
the rulings of the county court upon the question of the offence
were correct.
The court then said: "The liquors were ordered by residents of Vermont from dealers doing business in the State of
New York, who selected from their stock such quantities and
kinds of goods as they thought proper in compliance with the
terms of the orders, put them up in packages, directed them to
the consignees, and delivered them to the express company as
a common carrier of goods for transportation, accompanied
with a bill, or invoice, for collection. The shipment was in
each instance which it is necessary here to consider, 'C. 0. D.;'
and the cases show that the effect of the transaction was a
direction by the shipper to the express company not to
deliver the goods to the consignees except upon payment of
the amount specified in the C. 0. D. bills, together with the
charges for the transportation of the packages and for the
return of the money paid. This direction was understood by

O'NEIL

VERMOT.

Opinion of the Court.

the express company, which received the" shipments coupled
therewith."
The court then remarked, that whether or not, and when,
the legal title in property sold passes from the vendor to the
vendee, is always a question of the intention. of the parties,
which is to be gathered from their acts and all the facts and
circumstances of the case taken together, and cited .Mason v.
Thompson, 18 Pick. 305; Benjamin on Sales, §§ P11, 319, note
c, and 320, note d; and Robert's Vermont Digest, 610, et seq.
It then proceeded: "In the cases under consideration," (viz.:
the present case, and another case against O'Neil, for keeping
intoxicating liquors with the intent to sell, etc.,) "the vendors
of the liquors shipped them in accordance with the terms of
the orders received, and the mode of shipment was as above
stated. They delivered the packages of liquors, properly
addressed to the several persons ordering the same, to the
express company, to be transported by that company and
delivered by it to the consignees upon fulfilment by them of
a specified condition precedent, namely, payment of the purchase price and transportation charges and not otherwise.
Attached to the very body of the contract, and to the act of
delivery to the carrier, was the condition of payment before
delivery of possession to the consignee. With this condition
unfulfilled and not waived,. it would be impossible to say that
a delivery to the carrier was intende 'by the consignor as a
delivery to the consignee, or as a surrender of the legal title.
The goods were intrusted to the carrier to transport to the
place of destination named, there to present them for acceptance to the consignee, .and-if he accepted them and paid the
accompanying invoice and the' transportation charges, to
deliver them t6 him; otherwise, to notify the consignor and
-hold them subject to his order. It is difficult, to see how a
seller could more positively and unequivocally express his
intention not to relinquish his right of property or possession
in goods until payment of the purchase price than by this
'method of shipment. We do not think the case is distinguishable in principle from that of a vendor who sends his clerk or
agent to deliver the, goods, or forwards them to, or makes them

OCTOBER TERNI, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

deliverable upon the order of, his agent, with instructions not
to deliver them except on payment of the price, or performance of some other specified condition precedent by the vendee. The vendors made the express company their agent in
the matter of the delivery of the goods, with instructions not.
to part with the possession of them except upon prior or con-.
temporaneous receipt of the price. . The contract of sale, therefore, remained inchoate or executory while the goods were in
transit, or in the hands of the express company, and could
only become executed and complete by their delivery to the
consignee. There was a completed executory contract of sale
in New York; but the completed sale was, or was to be, in
this State."
The foregoing comprises all that was said by the Supreme
Court material to the case now before us.
It is assigned for error, that the Supreme Court held (1)
that the sale of intoxicating liquor in New York, by a citizen
of that State lawfully, was a crime under .the statute law of
Vermont, when the liquor so sold was shipped C. 0. D. to the
purchaser in Vermont, by his direction; (2) that a shipment
of liquors by a common carrier from New York, by a citizen
of that State to a purchaser in Vermont, under the circumstances of this-case, was a crime under the statute of Vermont,
which could be punished by the courts of Vermont; (3) that
such-statute was not in conflict with the clause of the Constitution of the United States which gives Congress power to
regulate commerce with foreign nations and among the several States and with the Indian tribes; (4) that O'Neil, under
the facts in this case, was amenable to the' statute law of Vermont prohibiting the sale, furnishing and giving away of intoxicating liquors; and (5) that the construction the court
gave to that statute, and its application to the facts of this
case, was not in conflict with § 8 of article I of the Constitution of the United States, in regard to the regulation of
commerce.
It is contended for the State of Vermont that this court has
no ju---diction of this case, because the record does not present a Federal question. We are of opinion that this conten-

O'NEIL v. VERMONT.
Opinion of the Court.

tion is correct, ,and that the writ of error must be dismissed
for want of jurisdiction in this court.
No point on the commerce clause of the Constitution of the
United States was taken in the county court, in regard to
the present case, or cohsidered by the Supreme Court of Vermont. One reason for this may have. been that the decision
in Peirce v. New Hampshire,5 How. 504, had not theretofore
been in terms overruled or questioned by this court, the cases
of Bowman v. Chicago &o. Railway Co., 125 U. S. 465, and
Leisy v. Hardin,135 U. S.100, not having been then decided.
The only points raised in the county court, according to the
exceptions, were, that the facts set forth in the written admission of O'Neil did not constitute an offence against the
statute of Vermont under the complaint, and that he ought to
be found not guilty under the facts so set forth. The matters
thus excepted to were too general to call the attention of the
state court to the commerce clause of. the Constitution, or 'to
any right claimed under it. Farney v. Towle, 1 Black, 350;
.Dayv. Gallup, 2 Wall. 97; Edwardsv. Elliott,21 Wall' 532;
TWarfeld v. Chaffe, 91 U. S. 690; iSusquehanna Boom Co. v.
West Branch Boom Co., 110 U. S. 57; Clark v. Pennsylvania,
128 U. S.395.
The only question considered by the Supreme Court, in its
opinion, in regard to the present case, was whether the liquor
in question was sold by O'Neil at Rutland or at Whitehall, so
as to fall within or without the statute *of Vermont, and the
court arrived at ihe conclusion that the completed sale was-in
Vermont. That does not involve any Federal question.

In its opinion in 58 Vermont, 140, the Supreme Court considered not only the present case and the case before referred
to against O'Neil for keeping intoxicating liquors with intent
to sell, etc., but also two other cases, being proceedings in rem
for the condemnation of intoxicating liquor on its seizure, in
which latter two cases the National Express Company was
claimant, and in one of them the liquors were forfeited, while
in the other of them some of the liquors, (being those which
had been paid for to the shipper at Whitehall, New York,)
were returned to the claimant and the remainder forfeited.

OCTOBER TERM14, 189L
Opinion of the Court.

In its opinion, the court said: "Concerning the claim that
section 8" of article 1, "of the Federal Constitution, conferring upon Congress the exclusive right to regulate commerce
among the States, has application, it is sufficient to say that
no regulation of or interference with interstate commerce is
attempted." That this observation had reference solely to
the two seizure cases, and not to the present case, is apparent
from the fact that the court immediately went on to say: "If
an express company or any other carrier or person, natural or
corporate, has in possession within this State an article in
itself dangerous to the community, or an article intended for
unlawful 6r criminal use within the State, it is a necessary
incident of the police powers of the State that such article
should be subject' to seizure for the protection of the community." The liquors in those two cases in rem were seized
by the sheriff at Rutland, while in the possession of the National Express Company, some of them havihg been delivered
to that company at Troy, New. York, and some at Whitehall,
New York, and all of them having been ordered by persons
at Rutland for their own use and not for sale or distribution
contrary to law..
Th6 Supreme Court of Vermont decided the case before us
upon a ground broad enough to maintain its judgment without" considering any Federal question. No Federal question
was presented forits decision, as to this case, nor was the
decision of a Federal question necessary to the determination
of this case, nor was any actually decided,-nor does it appear
that the judgment as rendered could not have been given
without deciding one. Hale v. Akers, 132 U. S. 554, 565, and
cases there cited - San Frawiscov. Itsell, '133 U. S. 65 ; )Yojkins v. XoiLure, 133 U..S. 380; Blount v. Walker, 134,U. S.
607; Beatty v. Benton, 1-35 U. S. 244; Johnson v. -Risk, 137
U. S.- 300; Butler v. Gage, 138 U. S. 52; _Beavpr9 v. NVoyes,
.1-38 U. S. 397;-Leeper v. Texas, 139 U. S. 462; Henderso;
Bridge Co. v. Henderson City, 141 U. S. 679; Hammond v.
Johnston, 142 V. S. 73 ; _.New Orleans v. NVew Orleans Water
Works Co., 142. U. S. 79.
It was entirely immaterial how. the liquor sold: by O'Neil at

*O'INIL ". .YERMONT.
Dissenting Opinion: Fiqld, J.

Rutland came to be there, for sale there -whether it was
made there, or whether it was brought in some way from the
State of New York. The only question was whether it was
at Rutland so as to be capable of sale there, and whether it
was sold there.
Moreover, under the practice in the Supreme Court of Vermont, the very error relied upon muist appear affirmatively, in
the exceptions. Sequin v. Peterson,45 Vermont, 255; State
v. Preston, 48 Vermont, 12; Ialzoay'v. 2ational ~f~e Ins.
Co., 48 Vermont, 335; State v. Brunelle, 57 Vermont, 580;
Spauldingv. TWarer, 57 Vermont, 654; -Rowell v. u'ller, .59
Vermont, 688.
The result is that the writ of error must be
.Dismissed.
MR. JusrTio

Fman dissenting.

I am compelled to disagree with my associates in their
disposition of this case. The act charged as an offence in the
State of Vermont was in my judgment a lawful transaction in
the State of New York. It will, I think, strike iiany men
with surprise to learn that filling an order for the purchase of
goods and their transmission from one State by an express carrier, to be paid for on delivery to the buyer in another State
can be turned into a criminal offnce bf the person filling the
order in the State where he was'not present.
The offence charged consisted of selling, furnishing and
giving away intoxicating liquor in Vermont, without authority of law, yet the accusation presenting it makes,no mention
of any person to whom the article -was sold, furnished or
given. Here is a copy of the document:
STATE OF VERONT,

s

Rutland County,
"To Wayne Bailey, Esq., justice -of the peace within -and
for the county of Rutland, comes J. P. Cain, grand juror, 9f
the town of Rutland, in said county of Rutlafnd, and on his
oath of office complaint maakes that John O'Neil, of WhitevoL. cxL v-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J

hall, N.Y., to wit, on the 25th day of December, A.D. 1882,
at Rutland aforesaid, did at divers times sell, furnish and give
away intoxicating liquor without authority, contrary to the
form, force and effect of the statute in such case made and
provided and against the peace and dignity of the State.
"J. P. CAIN,, Grand Juror."
The accusation describes only a single offence; "et, by the
addition of the words "at divers times," that document is held
to justify a trial and uphold a conviction for three hundred
and seven distinct offences, only one of which is set forth in
the accusation, and that defectively, all the others being
brought within it by the use of those words.
The punishment imposed was one exceeding in severity,
considering the offences of which the defendant was convicted, anything which I have been able to find in the records
of our courts for the present century. By the justice of the
peace in Vermont, before whom the defendant was accused,
he was convicted of four hundred and fifty-seven distinct
offences, and sentenced to pay to the treasurer of the State a
fine of $9140 and the costs of prosecution taxed at $472.96,
and be confined at hard labor in the house of correction in
the county of Rutland for one month, and, -in case the fine
and costs should not be paid on or before the expiration of
this month's imprisonment, to be confined there at hard labor
for the further term of twenty-eight thousand eight hundred
and thirty-six days, to be computed from the expiration of the
month's imprisonment. This w;as more than seventy-nine
years for selling, furnishing and giving away, as alleged,
intoxicating liquor, which took place in New York, to be
delivered in Vermont. An appeal having been taken from
that judgment to the county court of Rutland County, a jury
was called and the accused pleaded not guilty, and although
but one charge was specified, and that defectively, in the complaint, which was the one. fled before the justice of the peace,
the jurors found ht[m guilty of three hundred and seven distinct offences of selling intoxicating liquors without authority
and contrary to the laws of Wermont. He was thereupon sen-

O'WEIL v. VERMONT.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, 3.

tenced to pay a fine of $6140 to the treasurer of the State, and
the costs of prosecution taxed at $497.96, and stand committed
until the sentence was complied with; and in case the fine and
costs were not paid before the 20th day of March, 1883, at three
o'clock in the afternoon of that day, to be confined at hard
labor in the house of correction, for the term of nineteen thousand nine hundred and fourteen days, a period of over, fiftyfour years, a reduction from the term imposed by the justice
of the peace of about twenty-five years.
Had he been found guilty of burglary or highway robbery,
he would have received less punishment than' for the offences
of which he was convicted. It was six times as great as any
court in Vermont could have imposed for manslaughter, forgery or perjury. It was one which, in its severity, considering
the offences of which he *as convicted, may justly be tbrmed
both unusual and cruel.
That designation, it is true, is usually applied to punishments which inflict torture, such as the rack, the thumbscrew,
the iron boot, the stretching of limbs and the like, which are
attended with acute pain and suffering. Such punishments
were at one time inflicted in England, but they were rendered. impossible by the Declaration of Rights, adopted by
Parliament on the successful termination of the revolution of
1688, and subsequently confirmed.in the Bill of Rights. -It
was -there declared that excessive bail ought not to be required, nor excessive fines imposed, nor cruel and unusual
punishments inflicted. From that period this doctrine has
been the established law of England, intended as a perpetual
security against the oppression of the subject from ahy of
those causes. It is embodied in the Eighth Amendment to
the Constitution of the United States, and in the constitutions
of several of the States, though Mr. Justice Story states in
his Commentaries on the Constitution "that the provision
would seem to be wholly unnecessary in a free government,
since it is scarcely possible that any department of such a
government should authorize or justify such atrocious conduct." (§ 1903.) The inhibition is directed, not only against
punishments of the character mentioned, but against all punish-

OiCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

ments which by their excessive length or severity are greatly
disproportioned'to the offences charged. The whole inhibition is against that which is excessive either in the bail required, or fine imposed, or punishment inflicted. Fifty-four
years' confinement at hard labor, away from one's home and
relatives, and thereby prevented from giving assistance to
them or receiving comfort from them, is a punishment at the
severity of which, considering the offences, it is hard to
believe that any man of right feeling and heart can refrain
from shuddering. It is no matter that by cumulative offences,
for each of which imprisonment may be lawfully imposed for
.- short time, the period prescribed by the sentence was
reached, the punishment was greatly beyond anything required by.any humane law for the offences: The State may,
indeed, make the drinking of one drop of liquor an offence to
'be punished by imprisonment, but it would be an unheard-of
cruelty if it should count the drops in a single glass and make
'thereby a thousand offences, and thus extend the punishment
for drinking the single glass of liquor to an imprisonment of
almost indefinite duration. The State has the power to inflict personal chastisement, by directing whipping for petty
offences-

repulsive as such mode of punishment is-and

should it, for each offence, inflict twenty stripes it might not
be considered, as applied to a single offence, a severe punish,ment, blut yet, if there had been three hundred and seven
offences committed, the number of which the defendant was
convicted in this case, and six thousand one hundred and forty
stripes were to be inflicted for these accumulated offences,
the judgment of mankind would be that the punishment was
not only an unusual but a cruel one, and 'a cry of horror
would rise from every civilized and Christian community of
the country against it. It does not alter its charabter as cruel
and unusual, that for each distinct offence there is a small
punishmelnt, if, when they are brought together and one punishiment for the whole is inflicted, it becomes one of excessive
severity. And the cruelty of it, in this case, by the imprisonment at hard labor, is further increased by the offences being
thus made ,infamous crimes. In E'w4arMe Wilson, 114 U. S.

O'NEIL v. -VMTNIONT.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.*

41T, 429, a party under sentence o'f imprisonment for fifteen
years at hard labor in the house of correction, in Detroit,
Michigan, was discharged by this court because he was not
tried upon an indictment or presentment of a grand jury, the
court holding that a crime, punishable by imprisonmnt for a
term of years at hard labor, was an infamous crime within the
meaning of the Fifth Amendment of the Constitution of the
United States. The selling of the liquors in New York during three years, upon three hundred and seven distinct'orders
from Vermont,'that is, one in every three or four'days, to
be .paid for on delivery in the latter State, are declared by
the punishment inflicted three hundred and seven infamous
crimes.
I haye stated these particulars of the proceedings and of
the judgment of the state courts, to show what great wrongs
were inflicted, under the forms of law, upon the defendant..
If there is.no remedy for them, there is a defect in our laws
or in their administration which cannot be too soon corrected.
I think there is a remedy, and that -it should be afforded by
this court.
The sales for which the defendant was prosecuted were
either completed transactions in New York, passing there the'
title to the goods, leaving their traniportation to the purchaser
in Vermont as a matter for his direction; or, they were mere.
executory contracts of sale in New York to be completed by'
delivery of the goods to the purchaser in Vermont.
If the first position be the true one, then Vermont, in.
attempting to punish the defendant, assumed to punish him
for an exterritorial offence by her statute, or to apply her.
statute to an offence not embraced by its terms. If the former
of these alternatives be the one she takes, that is, to punish
the defendant for an exterritorial offence, she violates the
right of a citizen of New York, and a right of that citizen,
which depends upon the relation of his State to the Union, and,
a that relation forbids a resort to arms, or negotiation,, or any'
international procedure for protection of her citizens, it belongs
to that class of rights which pertain to a; citizen of the United
States. -His rights as such citizen are guarded and must be

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

defended by the United States, and cannot be abridged or impaired by the law of any State.
. But if the statute of Vermont does not reach the defendant
by exterritorial operation, and the sales were only inchoate in
New York, and consummated by delivery in Vermont, then
the acts of selling were exterritorial, and the delivery was by
interstate transportation. Until that transportation was completed and the packages of goods were delivered to the pur:
chasers, they were under the commercial power of Congress
and not the police power of the State, and the intrusion of the
latter to defeat the full-protection of the Congressional power
was necessarily void.
I assume for this case, as correct, the position of the majority
of this court and of the Supreme Court of Vermont, that the
sales were only initiated in New York, and were there merely
executory contracts, and were not consummated until delivery
of the goods to the purchaser in Vermont. As such they were
transactions of interstate commerce which the latter State
could not prevent, and for which she could not impose any
penalty upon the defendant, though she might place such
restrictions upon 'the disposition of the liquor, as the safety
and health of the community might require, after it was
brought within her limits, and had become part of the general
property there, Against the proceedings resulting in the
penalty inflicted, the defendant invoked - and in my judgment was entitled to receive- protection under the clause of
the Constitution of the United States vesting in Congress the
exclusive power to regulate commerce among the States.
The refusal of the state court to afford the protection is sufficient ground for this court to take jurisdiction to review the
judgment of that court, and I dissent from my associates in
their declining to take such jurisdiction.
On the trial before the county court certain facts were admitted by the accused which constitute the grounds of his
conviction. They are given in the opinion of the majority.
and it is only necessary to state so much of them as will show
the pertinency'of the objections I take. The accused resided
at Whitehall, in the State of New York, a flourishing town of

O'NEIL v. VERMONT.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

several thousand inhabitants,, and considerable commerce, at
the south end of Lake Champlain, and about twenty-four miles
west of Vermont.
He was a wholesale and retail dealer in wines and liquors at
that place, and had been there engaged in that business for
more than three years. His business was a lawful one under
the laws of New York. During those three years he received
at his store in Whitehall three hundred and seven separate
and distinct orders by mail, telegraph or express for specified
small quantities of intoxicating liquors from as many different
parties residing in Rutland, Vermont. The orders requested:
the accused to send the liquors to the parties ordering them at
Rutland by the National Express Company, a New York c6rporation and common carrier, doing business between New
York and Montreal, including the route between Whitehall
and Rutland, and in more than one-half the number of instances
directed that the liquors be sent C. 0. D., meaning cash on delivery, and in other instances where the orders did not specify
this mode it was the intention of the -purchaser to have the
goods thus sent to him.
It was the usdal course of trade for merchants receiving an
order from a considerable distance for goods in small quantities
to send the same by express, C. 0. D., when the order was not
from a regular customer or a.person of known responsibility.
Upon the receipt of the orders the accused in each instance
measured out the liquors called for at his store in Whitehall;
put the same in the jugs -or other vessels sent, and attached to
each one a tag having the address of the party ordering the
liquor. He then delivered the package to. the express company, each package having upon the tag the name and busiuess
of the accused, and not being in any manner disguised, and
being sealed with wax. Hedelivered to the express c6mpany
with each package a bill in an envelope marked C. 0. D., endorsed with instructions not t5 deliver the same without receiving payment therefor.
He aid nothing after the packages were delivered by him at
Whitehall; and the several consignees received the same and
made payment therefor to the carrier at Rutland.

OCTOBER TERMI,

1891.

Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

The accused requested the court to instruct the jury that
the facts set forth in his admission did not constitute an offence
against'the statute, under the complaint in the case, but the
court refused the request, anid he excepted. He also requested
the court to instruct the jury that under the facts they ought
to find him not guilty, but this the court refused to do, and he
excepted. The court charged the jury that if they believed
the facts set forth in the admission they made a case upon
which the jury should find a verdict of guilty against him, to
which instruction he excepted.
The case was carried to the Supreme Court of the State, and
by it the judgment below was affirmed. In giving its opinion that court stated that the case being one for selling intoxicating liquors the question was whether they were sold by the
accused in contemplation of law in Rutland County, and that
the answer depended upon the question whether the National
Express Company, by which the liquors were delivered to the
consignees thereof, was in law the agent of the vendor or of
the vendees. It stated that the effect of the transaction was
a direction by the shipper to the express company not to
deliver the goods to the consignees except upon payment of
the amount specified in the C. 0. D. bills, together with the
chargesfor the transportationof thelpackages andfor the returm
of the money paid; and that this direction was so understood
by the express company, which received the shipments coupled
therewith. This statement ignores the fact in the admission
of the accused, which was submitted to the jury, that the
express company was the agent of the Rutland parties, the expenses of that company being paid by the senders of the orders,
a fact which showed that the company acted for the purchasers
and not for the vendor in the several cases in the carriage to
Vermont of the articles sold.
The several transactions appear to have been completed according to the admission, so far as the vendor was concerned,
at Whitehall in the State of New York. He was not ih Vermont, where the alleged offences were committed. He had
no clerk, or agent, or office for the sale of liquors in that State
or at any other place than Whitehall. As said by counsel, the

O;NEIh V. VERMONT.

•3 5

Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

contention of the State appears to have been to make the defendant constructively present in Vermont and by a fiction of
law a criminal under her laws. He was, in fact, found. guilty
of criminal offences in Vermont where he was not present, because he sold liquors in New York on credit to parties in Vermont, payable on delivery.
Transactions like those in controversy, that is, purchases of
small quantities of goods upon orders, the packages to be.
shipped by the vendor with a direction to collect the amount
of the price on delivery, take place in this country every month
to the amount of millions of dollars. Orders are sent all over
the country, for articles of small bulk; to California for fruit.
and wines, to Florida for oranges, to Kentucky for whiskies,
and to the dealers in our large cities in general merchandise
,for small parcels of different kinds. They are transmitted
without hesitation by the vendors upon the receipt of such
orders, often even without khowledge of the parties sending
them, their security being the retention of a lien upon- the
property shipped until the cash is actually paid. Amazement
would strike the large class of merchants engaged in transmit
ting goods in this way from one portion of the country to
another, if they were told that they thereby rendered themselves liable to the penal statutes of the States to which the,
goods were sent in compliance with the orders of the purchasers, and might be prosecuted for criminal offences committed in those States, which they had never visited .and with
whose laws they never intended to interfere. I do not believe
that any such danger is incurred by them by engaging in this
mode of interstate commerce. None of the cases which I have
seen, and my examination has been somewhat extended, has
sustained any such doctrine. Whether transactions of the
character mentioned are to be deemed absolute sales of the
goods on the part of the vendor, with a proviso for withholding their delivery until actual payment, so as to preserve a lien
for the price, or only as executory contracts of sale not completed until actual delivery, there is a diversity of opinion.Pilgreen v. The State, 71 .Alabama, 368; Dutton v. Solomon-.
son, 3Bos. & Pul. 582; Garlandv. Lane, 46 N'.H. 245; Oroutt

OCTOBER TERMT. 1891.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

v. Nelson, 1 Gray, 536, 542; and State v. Corl and Tobey, 43
Arkansas, 353.
But in either view, whether considered as absolute sales or
executory contracts of sale, they were, as already stated, transactions of interstate commerce. They were made between
citizens of different States, and involved the transportation of
the article sold from one State to another. A sale of an article
between'such citizens and its transportation from one State to
another for delivery to the purchaser are the essential elements of interstate commerce. As said by this court in Welton v. State of Jfissouri, 91 U. S.275, 280, commerce "comprehends intercourse for the purposes of trade in any and all
its forms, including the transportation, purchase, sale and
exchange of commodities between the citizens of our country
and the citizens or subjects of other countries, and between
the citizens of different States."
In County of fobile v. Kimball, 102 U. S.691, 702, this court
said: "Commerce with foreign countries and among the
States, strictly considered, consists in intercourse and traffic,
including in these terms navigation and the transportation
and transit of persons and property, as well as the purchase,
sale and exchange of commodities. For the regulation of
commerce as thus defined there can be only one system of
rules applicable alike to the whole country; and the authority
which can act for the whole country can alone adopt such a
system. Action upon it by separate States is not, therefore,
permissible."
In the case of the Daniel Ball, 10 Wall. 557, 565, this court
said: "Whenever a commodity has begun to move, as. an
article of trade, from one State to another, commerce in that
commodity, between the States has commenced." See also
Glouces'er Ferry Co. v. Pennsylvania,114 U. S.196; Brown
v. Houston, 114 U. S.622; Pickardv. Pullmaln Southern Car,
Co., 117 U. S. 34; Robbins v. SelZby Taxing District,120
U. S. 489; Steamship Co. v. Pennsylvania, 122 U. S.326.
The exclusive and protecting power of Congress over interstate commerce is not confined to that commerce which consists of wholesale business,, but extends to all cases of the sale,

O'NEIL v. VERMONT.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

exchange and transportation of goods between citizens of different States -as much to the single case of fruit or wine as
to the carload of grain or cotton.
The transactions considered in this case, which extended
over a period of three years, cannot be described without
showing that they embody the elements which constitute
interstate commerce - sales of goods by a citizen of one State
to a citizen of another State and their transportation between
the States in their delivery to the purchaser. These facts
must have been seen by the Supreme Court of Vermont.
They were facts, constantly presenting themselves, and could
not have been overlooked. Nfor can it make any ,difference
what motives may be imputed to the parties on the one side
in selling, and on the other in purchasing the goods; the only
inquiry which can be considered, is, were the goods bought
and sold subjects of lawful commerce, for if so, they were, in
their transportation between the parties -citizens of different
States -until their delivery to the purchaser or consignee in
the completion of the contracts of sale, under the protection
of the commercial power of Congress. It is not necessary, to
give this court jurisdiction to review the judgment of that
court, that the record should show that the objection that the
transactions were those of interstate commerce was specifically taken in terms in the court below; it is sufficient if the
facts of the record show that the question of their being transactions of that character was involved in the case, though the
court below may state in various forms .that it did not deem
it necessary to consider it. In 31uray v. Charleston, 96 U. S.
432, 441, it was held that whenever rights, acknowledged and
protected by the Constitution of the United States, are denied
or invaded by state legislation, which is sustained by the
judgment"of a state court, this court is authorized to interfere ;
that the jurisdiction to reexamine such a judgment cannot be
defeated by showing that the record does not in direct terms
refer to a constitutional provision, nor expressly state that a
Federal question was presented; and that the true jurisdic
tional test is, whether it appears that such a question was
decided adversely to the Federal right. Mr. Justice Strong,

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Dissenting Opinion: 'Field. J.

speaking for the court, said: "In questions relating to our
jurisdiction, undue importance is often attributed to the inquiry whether the pleadings in the state court expressly assert
a right under the Federal Constitution. The true test is not
whether the record exhibits an express statement that a Federal question was presented, but whether such a question was
decided, and decided adversely, to the Federal right. Everywhere in our decisions it has been held that we may review
the judgments of a state 'court when the determination or
judgment of that court could not have been given without
deciding upon a right or authority claimed to exist under the
'Constitution, laws or treaties of the United States, and deciding against that right. Very little importance has been
attached to the inquiry whether the Federal question was formally raised;" and the court cited the case of Crowell v.
]?andell, 10 Pet. 368, in support of this position, where it was
laid down after a review of previous decisions "that it is not
necessary the question should appear on the record to have been
raised and decision made in direct and positive terms in ipsissimis verbis, but it is sufficient if it appears by clear and necessary intendment that the question must have been raised, and
must have been decided, in order to have induced the judgment."
See also Eureka &o. Canal Co. v. Yuba Counity Superior Court,
116 U. S. 410; ArrowsmitA v. Harmoning, 118 U. S. 194.
If the vendor *had, during the same period of three years,
sold every third or fourth day a box of, fruit or a package of
clothing to the vendees in Vermont, payable on delivery, the
transactions would have been of the same character as those
under consideration - those of interstate commerce - and I
doubt whether a question on this point would have been raised
by any .one. The present transactions, in the fact that the
articles are liquors, are in no respect different in character.
The decision made by the court below could not have been
rendered without its assuming that the facts which constitute
interstate commerce were transactions of a different nature.
If that court could, by that assumption, bind this court, the
supervising authority of our jurisdiction would be lost in
-eyery case by the simple assertion of the court below that it

O'NEIL 9). VERMONT.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

placed its decision on some pafticular ground of -its own creation. To assent to any such doctrine would be to abrogate
our jurisdiction in a most important particular. And that is,,
in my judgment, exactly what is done in this case. In the
opinion of the majority it is stated that the only question
considered by the Supreme Court of Vermont, in regard to
the present case, "was whether the liquor in question was sold
by O'Neil at Rutland or Whitehall, so as to fall within or.
without the statute of Vermont, and it arrived at the conclusion that the completed sale was in Vermont. That, says
this court, does not involve any Federal question. To this I
answer, that before the state court could reach the question
whether the sale fell under the law of Vermont it had to
determine whether the sale was completed in that State, or in
New York- whether, therefore, an executory sale of goods
in New York, completed in Vermont, was or was not a transaction of interstate commerce, and until that question, -which
was a Federal one, was disposed of, the alleged State question
'could not be considered. But that *the commercial question
was brought to the attention of the Supreme Court of Ver'mont, was argued by counsel there and passed upon by that
court, does not rest as an inference from the facts n&essarily
involved: it appears from its opinion and the'official report
of the case.
There were at the same time three other cases before the
court arising 'upon substantially the same facts;' one against
the same respondent and the other two being proceedings
for the condemnation of the liquors seized. They were considered together, and the opinion of the court, delivered by
its Chief Justice, covered them all and discussed the principal
questions involved. It was prepared by him and handed to
the reporter, and under the latter's supervision it was published
in the official reports of the decisions of the court, and is
found in vol. 58 of the Vermont Reports. The law of Vermont requires the judges of the Supreme Court to prepare
and furnish to the reporter, each year, reports of the opinions
delivered by them, and the reporter to prepare them for publication and to superintend the printing. In looking at the

OOTOBER TERM, 1891.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

synopsis of the argument of counsel, which accompanies the
report of the opinion thus prepared, we find that they took
the position that the transactions complained of were those
of interstate commerce, and that the State could not prohibit
or regulate that commerce. In fireiger v. Shelby Railroad
Co., 125 U. S. 39, 44, it was held that this court might examine
the opinions of a state court, delivered and recorded, to ascertain the ground of its judgment. And looking at the opinion
of the Supreme Court of Vermont we find several paragraphs
bearing upon the question of interstate commerce. One of
the paragraphs describes the sales thus: "The liquors were
ordered by residents of Vermont from dealers doing business
in the State of New York, who selected from their stock
such quantities and kinds of goods as they thought proper in
compliance with the terms of the orders, put them up in packages, directed them to the consignees, and delivered them to
the express company as a common carrier of goods for transportation, accompanied with a bill or invoice for collection."
I am unable to m~ike out of transactions of this character
anything other than those of interstate commerce.
In another paragraph the court refers directly to the commercial clause of the Constitution and repudiates its application.
It says: "Concerning the claim that section eigbht of the
Federal Constitution, conferring upon Congress the exclusive
right to regulate commerce among the States, has application,
it is sufficient to say that no regulation of, or interference with,
interstate commerce is attempted," and the court concludes
its opinion covering all the cases by holding that in the two
cases of the State v. O'Nfeil the respondent takes nothing by
his exceptions. That is to say, the court, not denying that
the question was raised in the O'Neil cases, passed it off with
the statement that no regulation of or interference with commerce was attempted, thus brushing out of consideration the
Federal question by assuming that the transactions were
purely of state cognizance. In another paragraph the state
court expresses disapprobation of the claim that the Federal
authority was supreme in matters of interstate commerce.
"If it were competent," said that court, "for persons 6r com-

O'NEIL

V.YERM ONT.

351

Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

panies to become superior to state laws and police regulations,
and to override and defy them under the shield of the Federal
Constitution, simply' by means of conducting an interstate
traffc, it would indeed be a strange and deplorable condition
of things." That is to say, that the importation of goods
into the State from another State should be protected under
the Federal Constitution against hostile state legislation'would
be deplorable. This observation was undoubtedly made in
response to suggestions that transportation of goods between
the States was free until regulated by Congress. Deplorable
as the Supreme Court of Vermont may have thought the
doctrine, it was the settled law, as announced by repeated
decisions of this court. In County of Afobile v. Zimball, 102
U. S. 691, 691, speaking of the power of Congress over commerce, this court said: "The subjects, indeed, upon which
Congress can act under this power are of infinite variety, requiring for their successful management different plans or
modes of treatment. Some of them are national in their
character, and admit and require uniformity of -regulation,
affecting alike all the States; others are local, or are mere
aids to commerce, and can only be properly regulated by provisions adapted to their special circumstanqes and localities.
Of the former class may be mentioned all that portion of
commerce with foreign countries or between the States which
consists in the transportation, purchase, sale and exchange of
commodities. Here there can of necessity be only'one system
or plan of regulations, and that Congresg alone can prescribe.
Its non-action in such cases with respect to any partiularcommodity or mode of transportationis a declarationof its p#.rpose that the commerce in that commodity, or by tlaf means of
transportation, shall be free."
And in Lei y v. Ilardin, 135 U. S. 100, 119 this court
cites from a previous opinion the following language as to the
power of Congress over subjects of interstate commerce,
declaring that its doctrine is now firmly established: "Where
the subject is national in its character, and admits and requires
uniformity of regulation, affecting alike all the States, such as
tran&portationbetween the States, including the importation of

352.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

;goodsfrom one State into anotfier, Congress can alone act-upon
it, and _provide the needed regulations." See also Welton v.
Missouri; 91 U. S. 275; and Brown v. Houston, 114 U. S.

622, 630.
In another paxagraph of the opinion the state court again
refers to the character of the transaction between the vendor
in New York and the vendee in Vermont, and the effect of
the instruction to the caxiier not to deliver the goods except
upon prior or contemporaneous payment of the price, upon
which it says: "The contract of sale, therefore, remained
inchoate or executory while the goods were in transit, or inthe hands of the express company, and could only become
executed and complete by their delivery to the consignee.
There was a completed executory contract of sale in New
York, but the completed sale was, or was to be, in this State,"
(Vermont). No better description of a transaction of interstate commerce could be given: an executory contract of sale
made in one State by a citizen thereof to a citizen of another
State, and a completed sale under that contract by the transQrtation and delivery to the purchaser in the latter State.
In the face of these extracts from the opinion of that court,
it strikes me with surprise that any one can contend that in
deciding the case it did not consider the question of interstate
commerce. It seems to me to have been the principal question
before it, and the only one which gave it any trouble in the
disposition of the case. But notwithstanding these statements,
and the character of the transactions themselves, which do not
admit, in my judgment, of any accurate description without
involving, necessarily, elements of interstate commerce, the
assertion is made by the majority, with great positiveness, as
though it would brush aside opposing considerations, that "no
Federal question was presented for the decision of the court
as to this case, nor was the decision of a Federal question
necessary to the determination of this case, nor was any actually decided, nor does it appear that the judgment as rendered
could not hav6 been given without deciding one." If this
assertion could be received with half the confidence with which
it is made, the whole controversy would be settled, and any

O'NEIL' v. VERIONT.
,Dissenting Opinion, Field, J.

discussion upon the points raised would be precluded. The
opinion of the court would then stand as evidence of wrongs
inflicted upon a citizen of the United States under the forms of
law, and, if the decision be right, of the inability of their constituted tribunals to give to 'him any redress, notwithstanding
the often-repeated declaration that the power of Congress over
interstate commerce is exclusive of all state authority.
It is true that the presumption of law is that the majority
of the court are right and that I am wrbng; yet, in the face of
this presumption, and the positiveness with which the views
of the majority are asserted, I cannot yield my convictions the
other way, which were never clearer or stronger in any case.
I can conceive of nothing more direct and effective as an
interference wth the power of Congress over interstate commerce than for a State to hold that the act of transmitting an
article to it from another State, in completion of a sale by
delivery, is an offence against its laws for which the sender
can be punished. Surely commerce between the States would
be defeated entirely, or subject to the control of a State to
which property might be sent, if it could hold the consummation of the sale of the article sent from another State to be
itself a penal offence. And to say that there is no interference
in such a case with the power of Congress is, in my humble
judgment, and with all due respect to my associates, to trifle
with substance by words.
Until Congress acts, every citizen in a State has a right to
send lawful articles of commerce into another State. When
they reach that State, and become a part of the general
property there, they fall under the control of its lawfully established police regulations; bat the commerce, which is subject
to the control of Congress, necessarily carries the article into
another State, ana whether the title is vested in the purchaser
there or when it starts from the State from which it is sent, is
a matter of no consequence; the state power over the article
only commences after it is once incorporated into the property
of the State, and that does not take place until the transportation is completed and the delivery made. Interstate 6ommerce
is not confined to the sale of goods Which have been fully paid"
VOL. CXLWv-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

for before they leave the State of export. It embraces also
goods the sale of which may not be completed until delivery
in the State of import; and the distinction in that respect
made by the Supreme Court of Vermont would destroy half
of the -interstate commerce of the country. To regulate commerce is to prescribe .e rules by which it shall be governed,
is, he conditions on which it shall be carried on, whether
it shall be subject to duties and charges or be left free and
untrammelled.
The necessity of some controlling power to regulate commerce both with foreign nations and among the States was
one of the principal causes that led to the calling of the convention which adopted the present Constitution. As said by
Chief Justico Marshall in Brown v. Aaryland, 12 Wheat.
419, 445: "The oppressed arad degraded state of commerce, previous to the adoption of the Constitution can scarcely be forgotten. It was regulated by foreign nations, with a single view
to their own interests; and our disunited efforts to counteract
their restrictions were rendered impotent by want of combination. Congress, indeed, possessed the power of making treaties; but the inability of the Federal government to enforce
them had become so apparent as to render that power in a
great degree useless. Those who felt the injury arising from
this state of things, and those who were capable of estimating
the influence of commerce on the prosperity of nations, perceived the necessity of giving the control over this important
subject to a single government. It may be doubted whether
any of the evils proceeding from the feebleness of the Federal
government contributed more to that great revolution which
introduced the present system than the deep and general conviction that commerce ought to be regulated by Congress. It
is not' therefore, matter of surprise, that the grant should be
as extensive as the mischief, and should comprehend all foreign commerce and all commerce among the States. To construe the power so as to impair its efficacy, would tend to defeat
an object, in the attainment of which the American, public
took, and justly took, that strong interest which arose from a
full conviction of its necessity."

O'NEIL v. YERMONT.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

And in Welton v. State of .Missouri,91 U. S. 275, 281, this
court said: "The power which insures uniformity of commercial regulation must cover the property which is transported
as an article of commerce from hostile or interfering legislation, until it has mingled with and become a part of the general property of the country, and subjected like it to similar
protection, and to no greater burdens. if, at any time before
it has thus become incow~poratediiAto the mass ofpro )erty of the
State or nation, it can be subjected to any restrictions by state
k4gislation, the object of investing the control in Congress may
be entirely defeated."
To sanction, therefore, the legislation of Vermont making
the consummation of an act of interstate commerce, that is,
the delivery of the article sold or agreed to be sold in another
State to the purchaser or intended purchaser in Vermont, a
penal offence, is, in fact, to defeat the very object of the grant
to Congress. The decision of the Supreme Cour' of that State
conflicts with a long line of previous decisions of this court
running through the last quarter of a century, and with those
of Bowman v. Chicago &c. Railway Co., 125 U. S. 465, and
leisy v. llardin,135 U. S. 100, since rendered, in which the
power of Congress over commerce, foreign and interstate, has
been exhaustively considered and doctrines declared covering
every possible position that can be taken in this case.
In Bowman v. Chicago, &c. Railway Co. a !aw of Iowa.
forbidding, under penalties, common carriers to bring intoxicating liquors into the State from any other State or Territory,
without being first furnished with a prescribed certificate, was
declared invalid, because"essentially a regulation of commerce
among the States, and not sanctioned by the authority, express
or implied, of Congress. It was accordingly held that this lawv
could give no protection to the carrier in refusing to transport
the goods into that State as requested by the shipper.
If requiring such a certificate as a condition for the importation of goods. into a State was invalid as a regulation of
commerce, much more so must a law be, which makes such
importation upon a sale, not completed until by a delivery of
the goods within the State to which they are transported, a

356

OCTOBER TERMI 1891.
Dis~enting Opinion: Field, J.

penal offence, subjecting the importer to a criminal prosecution for the importation. The law of Vermont would have
afforded no protection to the express company employed to
transport the goods in question into that State had it refused
to carry them. The vendor could have sued that company
and recovered for not carrying them. Tow, then, can he be
prosecuted for' sending the goods by that company? How
can a penalty be imposed upon him for doing what he could
compel the company to do? To the objection urged that
there was no legislation of Congress with which the act of
Iowa conflicted, the court said: "If not in contravention of
any positive legislation by Congress, it is, nevertheless, a
breach and interruption of that liberty of trade which Congress ordains as the national policy, by-willing that it shall be
free from restrictive regulations." 125 U. S. 498.
In Leisy v. aradin thQ court said, giving expression to its
often-repeated declarations, that the power vested in Congress
to regulate commerce was complete in itself, acknowledging
no limitations other than those prescribed in the Constitution,
and was coextensive with. the subjects on which it acted and
could not be stopped at the external boundary of a State, but
must enter its interior and be capable of authorizing the disposition of those articles which it introduced, so that they
might become mingled with the common mass of property
there.
These doctrines, thus clearly stated and supported by an
almost unbrQken line of decisions of this court for half a century, establish the invalidity of the action of the State of
Vermont in making a sale of goods by a non-resident to its
citizens, completed on the delivery of the property to them in
the State, a penal offence.
It is true that when the decisions in these last two cases
were rendered the personnel of this court was different from
what it is at present. When Bdwman, v. Chicago &c. Railway Co. was decided, Justices Matthews, Miller and Bradley
were members of this court and concurred in the decision.
And when -Lewy v. Hlardin was decided the latter two Justices were still members and concurred in that decision.

O'NEIL v. VERMONT.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

These Justices were distinguished for their ability and learning, and it was the occasion of great pride to them that they*
had contributed by their labors to establish that freedom of
interstate commerce from state interference which made the
different States, commercially, one country. As said by Mr.
Justice Bradley in Robbins v. Shelby Taxing -District,120
U. S. 489, 494: "In the matter of interstate commerce the
United States axe but one country, and axe, and must be, subject to one system of regulations, and not to a multitude of
systems." They recognized, with their associates, the right
of the State to exercise its police power to the fullest extent,
which the health, safety and good order of its people might
require, over all property brought from another State within
its limits when once mingled with its general property. But
they did not admit that the police power of a State was superior to an express power of Congress, and a majority" of the
court then agreed with them. They respeSted the declaration
of the Constitution that not only that instrum6nt but that all
laws of the United States passed in pursuance thereof were
the supreme law of the land, and that the judges of every
State were bound thereby, anything in the constitution or
laws of any State to the contrary. (See Constitution, Art. VI.)
They regarded the police power as complete up9n all subjects
to which it was applicable, but held that it could not be exercised so as to take property, which was an article of commerce, from the regulation of Congress. - And on the subject
of the relation to oach other of the two powers, the police
power of the State and the power of Congress over commerce,
they often referred to the observations of Mr. Justice Catron,
in The License Cases, 5 How. 504, 600, that that which from
its nature or its condition, from putrescence or other cause,
does not belong to commerce is within the jurisdiction of the
police power; and that which does belong to commerce is
within the jurisdiction of the United States, and that it is not
within the power of the State; by its declaration, to determine
what is and what is not an article of lawful commerce and
thus determine what is and what is not exclusively under its
control. Referring to the assumption of such power, that

358

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

learned Justice said: "Upon this theory, the power to regu
late commerce, instead of being paramount over the subject,
would become subordinate to the state police power; for it is
obvious that the power to determine the articles which may
be the subjects of commerce, and thus to circumscribe its
scope and operation, is, in effect, the controlling one. The
police power would not only be a formidable rival, but; in a
struggle, must necessarily triumph over the commercial power,
as the power to regulate is dependent upon the power to fix
and determine upon the subjects to be regulated."
These three Justices are no longer members of this court,
but since they ceased to be members there has been no adjudication by it until the decision in this case, which, in any respect,
changes its previous decisions upon the exclusive power of Congress over interstate commerce.
In Chayman v. Goodnow, 123 U. S. 541, 548, this court, in
considering section -709 of the Revised Statutes, providing for
a review of the final judgment or decree in a suit in the highest
court of a State, and speaking of the right or immunity which
might be claimed under the Constitution, or a treaty, or statute
of the United States, and the decision against them, which
would authorize the regxamination of the judgment or decree,
said: "W-e are aware that a right or innunity set up or
claimed under the Constitution or laws of the United States
may be denied as well by evading a direct decision thereon as
by positive action. If a Federal qubstion" is fairly presented
ly the record, and its -decision is actually necessary to the
determination of the case, a judgment which rejects the claim,
but avoids all reference to it, is as much against the right,
within the meaning of § 709 of the Revised Statutes, as if it
had been specifically referred to and the right directly refused."
Here the claim was rejected, though all reference to it was
not avoided. Jurisdiction therefore attached. Having jurisdiction to review the judgment for the denial by the state
court of the exclusive power vested in Congress to regulate
commerce among the States, there ought not to be any hesitation in declaring that the judgment of the state court should
for that reason be reversed. If not reversed of what avail

O'NEIL'v. VERMOIN P.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

wil2 it be to say that the power of Congress to regulate interstate commerce is-exclusive of all state interference, and that
parties dealing in such.commerce are protected thereby, when
the State can, at any moment, nullify such power by declaring
that the delivery of the articles of commerce to parties within
the respective States, in completion of a sale made to them in
other States, shall constitute a penal offence, and no redress is
left to the parties prosecuted? I can never assent to the assumption by the State of any such power as is here asserted.
And I go further than the consideration of the question of
interstate commerce involved. Having jurisdiction of the case
on the ground stated, I think we may look into -the whole
record. And if it appears from the proceedings taken and the
rulings.made in the court below, on questions brought to its
notice, that the rights of the accused, affecting his liberty or
his life, have been invaded, this court may exercise its jurisdiction for the correction of the errors committed. The Fourteenth Amendment declares that no State shall make or
enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States, and tl~at no State shall
deprive any person of life, liberty or. property without due
process of law. I agree, as held in In 're 1?ahrer,140 U. S.
545, that those inhibitions do not invest Congress with any
power to legislate upon subjects which are within the domain
of state legislation. They. only operate as restraints upon
state action, like the prohibitions upon legislation by the
States impairing the obligation of contracts, or to pass a bill
of attainder or an expost facto law. But in all cases touching
life or liberty I deem it the duty of this court, when once it
has jurisdiction of a case, to enforce these restraints for the
protection of the citizen where they have been disregarded in
the court below, though called to its attention. I do not pretend that this court should take up questions not arising upon
the record, but I do contend that it is competent for the court
when once it has acquired jurisdiction of a case to see that the
life or liberty of the citizen is not wantonly sacrificed because
of some imperfect statement of the party's rights. We'have
now jurisdiction to hear writs of error in certaif criminal

OCTOBER TERM1 1891.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

cdses. If such a case were brought before us upon objections
to the admission of testimony and we should come to the conclusion that the objections were not tenable, but, at the same
time, should perceive that the law, under which the accused
was. convicted, had been repealed or amended inthe punishment imposed, we should not perform our whole duty if we
,allowed the party to be punished under the law repealed or
with greater severity than the amended law authorized, simply
because the predise objection was not taken in direct terms in
the assignments of error. We should allow additional assignments to be filed, or take notice of the error of our own motion
under Rule 21 stated below, that injustice and wrong may not
be perpetuated.
Section 997 of the Revised Statutes requires that there
shall be annexea to and returned with a writ of error for the
removal of a cause an assignment of errors, and Rule 21 of
this court declares that when there is no assignment of errors,
as required by that section, counsel will not be heard, except
at the reguest of the court, and that errors not specified accord-

ing to the rule will be disregarded.

It adds, however, that the

court qt its option may notice a plain error not assigned or

specified. This rule seems to provide for a case like the present; and I do not think we should be astute to avoid jurixliction in a case affecting the liberty of the citizen.
In opening the record in this case, we not only see that the
exclusive power of Congress to regulate commerce was invaded, but we see that a cruel as well as an unusual punishment was inflicted upon the accused, and that the objection
was taken in the cour below, and immunity therefrom was
specially claimed. The, Eighth Amendment of the. Constitution of the United States, relating to punishments of this kind,
was formerly held to be directed only against the authorities
of the United States, and as not applicable to the States.
Barronv. Baltimore, 7 Pet. 243. Such was undoubtedly the
case previous to'the Fourteenth Amendment, and such must
be its limitation now, unless exemption from such punishment
is one of the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United
States, Which can be enforced under the clause, declaring that

O'KEIL v. VERMONT.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

"no State shall make or enforce any law which shall abridge"
those privileges or immunities.

In Slaughter-Rouse Cases, 16

Wall. 36, it was held that the inhibition of that Amendment
was against abridging the privileges or immunities of citizens
of the United States as distinguished from privileges and
immunities of citizens of the States. Assuming such to be the
-case, the question arises: What are the privileges and immunities of citizens of the United States which are thus protected?
These terms are not idle words to be treated as meaningless,
and the inhibition of their abridgnent as iiieffectual for any
purpose, as some would seem to think. They 'are -of momentous import, and the inhibition is a great guaranty to the
citizens of the United States of those privileges and immunities against any possible state invasion. It may be difficult
to define the terms so as to cover all the privileges and
immunities of citizens of the United States, but after much

reflection I think the definition given at one time before this
court by a distinguished advocate - Mr. John' 'Randolph
Tucker, of Virginia -is correct, that the privileges and immunities of citizens of the United States are such as have
their recognition in or guaranty from the Constitution of the
United States. Spies v. Illinois, 123 USf'131, 150. This
definition is supported by reference to the history of the first
ten Amendments to the Constitution, and of the Amendments
which followed the late Civil War. The adoption of the Constitution, as is well known, encountered great hostility from
a large class, who dreaded a central government as one'which
would embarrass the States in the administration.of their.local
affairs. They contended that the powers granted to the proposed government were not sufficiently guarded, and might
be used to encroach upon th iberties of the pedple. In the
conventions of s6me of the States which ratified the Constitution a desire was expressed for Amendments'declaratory of the
rights of the people and restrictive of the powers of the new
government, in order, as stated at the time, to prevent misconception or abuse of its powers. The -desire thus expressed "
subsequently'led to the adoption of the first ten Amendments.
Some of these contain specific restrictions upon Congress; as

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Dissentiig Opinion: Field, J.

that it shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging
the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the right of the
people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the government
for a redress of grievances. Some of them impliedly restrict
the powers of Congress in prescribing or construing particular
modes of procedure, such as require a presentment or an
idictment of a grand jury for the trial of a capital or other-wise infamous crime, and the one that provides that in suits
at common law, where the value involved exceeds twenty dollars, the right of trial by jury shall be preserved. Some of
them are declaratory of certain rights of the people which
cannot be violated, as their right to be secure in their persons,
houses, papiers and effects, against unreasonable searches and
seizures; that no one shall be subject for the same offence to
be twice put in jeopardy of life or limb, nor be compelled in
any criminal case to be a witness against himself; that in all
criminal prosecutions, the accused shall enjoy the right to a
speedy and public trial, by an impartial jury of the State and
district wherein the crime shall have been committed; and to
be informed of the nature and cause of the accusation; and to
be confronted with the witnesses against him; and to have
compulsory process for obtaining witnesses in his favor; and
that excessive bail shall not be required, nor excessive fines
imposed, nor cruel and unusual punishments inflicted.
. The rights thus recognized and declared are rights of citizens of the United States under their Constitutioff which
could not be violated by Federal authority. But when the
late civil war closed, and slavery was abolished by the Thirteenth Amendment, there was legislation in the former slaveholding States inconsistent with these rights, and a general
apprehension arose in a portion of the country - whether
justified or not is immaterial'- that this legislation would
still be enforced and the rights of the freedmen would not be
respected. The Fourteenth Amendment- followed, which
declares that "all persons born or naturalized in the United
States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of
the United States and of the State wherein they reside." The

O'NEIL v. VERMONT.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

free'dmen thus became citizens of the United States and
entitled in the future to all the privileges and immunities of
such citizens. But owing to previous legislation many of
those privileges and immunities, if that legislation was allowed
to stand, would be abridged; therefore, in the same Amendment by which they were made citizens, it was ordained that
"no State shall make or enforce any law which shall abridge
the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States,"
thus nullifying existing legislation of that character, and
prohibiting its enactment in the future.
While, therefore, the ten Amendments, as limitations on
power, and, so far as they accomplish their purpose and find
their fruition in such limitations, are applicable only to the
Federal government and not to the States, yet, so far as they
declare or recognize the rights of persons, they are rights
belonging to them as citizens of the United States under the
Constitution; and the Fourteenth Amendment, as • to all such
rights, places 'a limit upon state powet by ordaining that no
State shall make or enforce any law which shall abridge,
them. If I am right in this view, then every citizen of the
United States is protected from punishments which are cruel
and unusual. It is an immunity which belongs to him,
against both state and Federal action. The State cannot
apply to him, any more than the United States, the torture,
the rack or thumbscrew, or any cruel and unusual punishment, or any more than it can deny to him security in his
house, papers and effects against unreasonable searches and
seizures, or compel him to be a witness against himself in a
criminal prosecution. These rights, as those of citizens.of the
United States, find their recognitipn and guaranty against
Federal' action in the Constitution of the United States, and
against state action in the Fourteenth Amendment. The
inhibition by that Amendment is not the less valuable and
effective becalise of the prior and existing inhibition against
such Action in the constitutions of the several States. The
Amendment only gives additional security to the rights of
the citizen. It was natural that it should forbid the abridgment by any State of privileges and immunities which the

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

Constitution recognized and guaranteed as rights.of citizens
of the United States. A similar additional guaranty of
private rights is found in other instances. An inhibition is
contained in. the several state constitutions against their
-legislatures passing a bill of attainder or an ex _post facto law,
and yet a like inhibition against state action is embodied in
the Constitution of the United States.
When the objection was taken in the Supreme Court of
Vermont that the punishment imposed by the county court
was cruel and unusual and immunity from it was specially
claimed, .the answer of the court was that the punishment
could not be said to be excessive or oppressive because the
defendant had committed a great many offences; that if the
penalty was unreasonably severe for a single offence the constitutional question might be urged, but that its unreasonableness was only in the number of offences which he had committed.
I do not think this answer satisfactory. The inhibition is directed against cruel and unusual punishments, whether inflicted
for one or many offences. A convict is not to be scourged
until the flesh fall from his body and he die under the lash,
though he may have committed a hundred offences, for each
of which, separately, a whipping of twenty stripes might be
inflicted. An imprisonment at hard labor for a few days or
weeks for a minor offence may be within the direction of a
humane government - but if the minor offences axe numerous
no authority exists to convert the imprisonment into one of
perpetual confinement at hard labor such as would be appropriate only for felonies of an atrocious nature. It is against
the excessive severity of the punishment, as applied to the
offences for which it is inflicted, that the inhibition is directed.
I think the plaintiff in error should be allowed, under the
21st rule, to amend his assignment of errors, so as to present
this objection for our consideration, or, that this court, under
that rule, without any additional assignment, should take
notice of the error, of its own motion; for if the denial by
the court below of the immunity claimed against the cruel
and unusual punishment imposed.was an error, it was one of
the gravest character, leaving the defendant to a life of mis-

O'KEIL v. VERMONT.

.365

Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

ery -one of perpetual imprisonment and hard labor. The
right of the court to consider this alleged error of its own
motion is within its authority under the 21st rule, and considering the unprecedented severity of the punishment -fifty-'
four'years' imprisonment at hard labor for these transactions,
which no power of the hmnan intellect can accurately describe
except as transactions of interstate commerce - a punishment
which makes the offences infamous crimes, I should have
thought that the court would have. been prompt to listen to
anything which could be properly said for the relief of the
defendant.
Here this dissenting opinion might close, as I have touched
upon the two questions specially brought to the attention of
the court below; but there are some expressions in the opinion of the court upon the procedure in the state courts to
which I cannot assent, and these I will briefly notice.
The complaint against the accused describes, as I havesaid,
on1I a single offence, that of selling, furnishing and giving
away intoxicating liquor without authority. It designates
no person or persons to whom such liquor was sold, furnished
or giveii away, nor specifies any number of offences, but
charges that the offence named was committed "at divers
times." And yet he was tried and convicted under this complaint of three hundred and seven diatinct offences, and punishment was imposed for each one. To the defective character
of the complaint the majority of the couirt say, in their opiion,
as though it was a sufficient answer, that the form of the complaint is authorized by the laws of Vermont, and that under
it any number of offences may be proved; and that, as the
accused did not take the point either before the justice of the
peace or the county court that there was any defect or want
of fulnes in the complaint; such point was -aived. To this
I answer that.the fact that the legislature of Vermont may
have authorized the loose form of accusation used, and allowed
the trial of a multitude of offences under an imperfect description of one, does not render the proceeding due process of law
any more than if it had attempted to authorize trials of crimVinal offences without any accusation in writing. *Due process

OCTOBER TERI, 1891.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Brewer, JJ.

of law required a specific description of all the offences for
which the defendant was to be put on trial. Proceeding without it was not due process of law; and, in my judgment, no
legislation of Verm6nt could make it so. And it is to me a
surprising doctrine that a party can be tried for and-convicted
of a criminal offence not alleged against him, and afterwards,
when the sentence is attempted to be enforced, can be prevented from taking the objection that no offence was charged
in the accusation, because no defect of. that kind was urged at
the trial. So far from the defect being waived, or he being
then estopped from insisting upon the objection by his previous silence, I think he could justly claim that the whole proceeding was a nullity, a mere mockery of justice.
It is the established rule of the common law, which has
prevailed in England and in this country since the revolutior
of 1688, if not for a period anterior to it, that in all criminal
prosecutions-the accused must be informed of the nature and
cause of the accusation against 1lim. It is the law of every
civilized community, and in no case can there be, in criminal
proceedigs, due process of law where the accused is not thus
in/ormed. The information which he is to receive is that
which will acquaint him with the essential particulars of the
offence, so that he may appear in court prepared to meet every
feature of the accusation against him. As said by Chief Justice Gibson of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania in Hartmann v. Commonwealth, 5 Penn. St. 60, 66: "1Precision. in
the description of the offence is of the last importance to the
innocent; for it is that which marks the limits of the accusation and fixes the proof of it. It is the only hold he has on
the jurors, judges as they are of the fact and the law."
MR.

JUSTICE HARLAN,

BREWER,

with whom concurred MR. JusTicE

dissenting.

I do not think that this writ of error should be dismissed
for want of jurisdiction.
The Supreme Court of Vermont, at its October term, 1885,
decided the following cases: State v. O'.Yeil. No. 21, the pres-

O'NEIL

. VEib1EONT.

Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Brewer, JJ.

ent case, in which the respondent was charged with selling
intoxicating liquors contrary to law; State v. O'NLveil, No. 28,
in which he was charged with keeping intoxicating liquors
with intent to sell, etc.; State v. Four Jugs of Intoxicating,
'-Licquor, NVational Express Co., Claimant,,No. 25; Stdte v.
Sixty-eight Jugs of Intoxicating Liquor, _lVational Express
Co., Claimant,No. 26. They were disposed, of at the same
time, and in one opinion delivered by Chief Justice Royce.
State v. O'3Teil, 58 Vermont, 140, 150, 151, 166. It is shown
by the report of the cases that O'Neil expressly invoked for
his protection that clause of the Constitution of the United
States which gives Congress power to regulate commerce
among the States. His exception was in these words: "The
State cannot prohibit or regulate interstaie, commerce." We
give the very words*of the exception, because of the statement
in the opinion of this court that no such point was passed upon
in this case by the Supreme Court of Vermont. 58 Vermont,
150. A like exception was taken by the claimant in cases
INos. 25 and 26, in these words:, "Congress has exclusive
power to regulate commerce among the States." 58 Vermont,
154. In disposing of this question, the court, in its opinion,
common to all the cases before it, among other things, said:
"If it were competent for persons or companies to become
superior to state laws and police regulations, and to override'
and defy them under the shield of the Federal Constitution
simply by means of conducting an interstate traffic, it would
indeed be a stiange and deplorable condition of things. The
right of the States to regulate the traffic in intoxicating liquoris
has been settled by the United States Supreme Court in t6e
License Cases, 5 How. 577." The opinion closed with these
words: "The result is that in the cases of the State v. O'NLV ,
numbers 27 and 28, the respondent takes nothing by his exceptions; and in the cases of the State v. IntoxicatingIiquor,
.National Expr'ss Campany, Claimant,numbers 25 and 26, the
'judgments axe affirmed." And one of the assignments of error
in this court is to the effect that the court below erred in adjudging that the statute of Vermont, in its application to the
facts of this case, was not in conflict with the commerce

OCTOBER, TERM, 1891.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Brewer, JJ.

clause of the Constitution of the United States. How, then,
can this court decline to consider the question, distinctly
raised by O'Neil in the court below, as well as. here, namely,
that the transactions on -account of which he was prosecuted
constituted interstate commerce, which was not subject to
regulation by the State? The defendant having expressly
excepted to the judgment against him upon the ground that
it was not consistent with the power of Congress over commerce among the States, and the Supreme Court of Vermont
having adjudged that he could take nothing by his exception,
how can it be said that this question was not presented to and
was not determined by that court adversely to the accused?
But if it were true that the court below did not, in fact,
pass upon, but ignored, this question, with respect to O'Neil,
and restricted its observations to the cases in which the
National Express Company was claimant, it would not follow
that this court is without jurisdiction to determine it. We
have often held that a judgment of the highest court of the
State which failed to recognize a Federal right, specially set
up and claimed, ought not to be disturbed, unless its necessary
efect was to deny that right, or where it proceeded, in part,
upon another and distinct ground, not involving a Federal
question, but sufficient, in itse/f, to maintain the judgment
without reference to that question. Sdn F'ancisco v. Itsell,
133 U. S. 65, 66; Beauprg v. .Hoyes,138 U. S. 397, 401. Now,
it may be true; as I think it is, under the facts of this case,
that the title to the liquors sold by ('Neil did not pass, and
he did not intend it should pass, from him upon the delivery
to the express company, in New York, of the jugs or vessels
containing the liquors, and, therefore, that the sales were not, in
law, consummated until the liquors were received in Vermont
and paid for there by the vendee. Still, the question remained,
whether the sending of the liquors from Whitehall, New York,
to Rutlaad, Vermont, was or was not interstate commerce protected by the Constitution of the United States. The contention of the defendant in this court, as it was in the court
below, is, that, even if the sales were not consummated until
the liquors were delivered to the respective vendees, he had

O'KEIL

VERMONT.

Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Brewer, JJ.

the right, under that instrument, to send the liquors into
Vermont, and deliver them there, in the original packages,
that is, in jugs or other vessels, upon payment of the price
charged. And the necessary effect of the judgment was to
deny this right, thus distinctly asserted. The decision that
the sales were consummated in Vermont, and, consequently,
that the defendant violated the laws of that State in doing
what )ie did there, by his agents, is not, in itself, sufficient to
support the judgmnent, except upon the theory that he had no
right, under the Constitution of the United States, to send the
liquors into Vermont to be there delivered in. the original
packages. It seems to me entirely clear, in any view of the
case, that the court below necessarily determined, adversely:
to the defendant, a right specially set up and claimed.by him
under the Federal Constitution.
In view of what I have said, it is proper to state that, in my
judgment, the sending by the a.efendaut from Whitehall, New
York, to Rutland County, Vermont, of intoxicating liquors, in
jugs, bottles or flasks, to be delivered only upon.the payment
of the price charged for the liquors, were not, in any fair
sense, transactions of interstate commerce protected by the
Constitution of the United States against the laws,of Vermont
regulating the selling, giving away and furnishing of intoxicating liquors within. its limits. The defendant, in effect,
engaged in the business of selling, through agents, by retail,
in Vermont, intoxicating liquors shipped by him, for that purpose, into that State from another State. What he did was a
mere device to evade the statutes enacted by Vermont for the
purpose of protecting its people against the evils confessedly
resulting from the sale of intoxicating liquors. The doctrine
relating to "original packages" of merchandise sent from one
State to .another State does not embrace a business of that.
character., But whether this be so or not is a question this
court has jurisdiction to determine in the present case, and it
is clearly the right of :the defendant to have it determined
If the jugs, bottles or flasks, containing intoxicating liquors
sent into Vermont from the- defendant's place of business.
over the border, were original packages, the shipment of which
VOL.. CkLmv-24

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Brewer, JJ.

into that State, prior to the passage of the Act of Congress of
August 8th, 1890, c. 728, 26 Stat. 313, known as the Wilson
statute, was protected by the Constitution of the United
States against state interference until delivered to the consignees, he is entitled upon the principles announced in Leisy
v. Hardin,135 U. S. 100, to a reversal of the judgnent.
But there is another reason why this writ of error should
not be dismissed for want of jurisdiction. The defendant contended in the court below that the judgment of the Rutland
County Court inflicted upon him, in violation of the Constitution of the United States, a punishment both cruel and unusual.
It is not disputed that he distinctly made this point. And
the question was decided against him in the court below. It
is true the assignments of error do not, in terms, cover
this point, but it is competent for this court to consider it,
because we have jurisdiction of the case upon the grounds
already stated. I fully concur with Mr. Justice Field, that
since the adoption of the Fourteenth Amendment, no one of
the fundamental rights of life, liberty or property, recognized
and guaranteed by the Constitution of the United States, can
be denied or abridged by a State in respect to any person
within its jurisdiction. These rights are, principally, enumerated in the earlier Amendments of the Constitution. They
were deemed so vital to the safety and security of the people,
that the absence from the Constitution, adopted by the convention of 1787, of express guarantees of them, came very
near defeating the acceptance of that instrument by the
requisite number of States. The Constitution was ratified
in the belief, and only because of the belief, encouraged by
its leading advocates, that, immediately upon the organization of the Government of the Union, Articles of Amendment
would be submitted to the people, recognizing those essential
rights of life, liberty and property which inhered in AngloSaxon freedom, and which our ancestors brought with them
from the mother country. Among those rights is hnmunity
from cruel and unusual punishments, secured by the Eighth
Amendment against Federal action, and by the Fourteenth
Amendment against denial or abridginent by the States. A

THE BLUE JACKET.
Syllabus.

judgment, therefore, of a state court, even if rendered pursuant
to a statute, inflicting or allowing the infliction of a cruel and
unusual punishment, is inconsistent vith the supreme law of
the land. The judgment before us by which the defendant
is confined at hard labor in a House of Correction for the
term of 19,914 days, or fifty-four years and two hundred and
four days, inflicts punishment, which, in "view of the character of the offences committed, must be deemed cruel and
unusual.
Without noticing other questions, I am of opinion that upon
the ground last stated the judgment should be reversed.
MR. JusTIcE BREWER authorizes me to say that in the main
he concurs with the views expressed in this opinion.

THE BLUE JACKET.
THE TACOMA.
APPEAL

FROM

THE SUPREME

COURT

OF

THE TERRITORY OF

WASHINGTON.
No. 241. Argued March 24, 25, 1892.-Decided April 4, 1892.

A collision occurred between a ship and a steam-tug while the navigation

rules established by the act of March 3, 1885, c. 354, 23 Stat. 438, were in
force. The tug was required to keep out of the way of the ship and the
ship to keep her course. The tug ported her helm to avoid the ship, and
that would have been effectual if the ship had not afterwards changed
her course by starboarding her helm. If the ship had. kept her course,
or ported her helm, the collision would have been avoided. The change
of course by the ship was not necessary or excusable. The tug did
everything to avoid the collision and lessen the damage. The tug had a
competent mate, who faithfully performed his duties although he had nb
license. Although the tug had no such lookout as was required by
law, that 'fact did not contribute to the collision. The tug did not
slacken her speed before the collision. There was no risk of collision
until the ship starboarded, and then the peril was so great and thb vessels
were slich a short distance apart that the tug may well be considered as
having been in extremis, before the time Nihen it became her duty to atop
and reverse, so that any error of judgment in not sooner stopping and
reversing was not a fault.

