SMITH v. GALE.
Statement of the Case.

SMITH v. GALE.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPRE

No.225.

COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
DAXOTA.

Argued March 23, 24, 1892.-Decided

April 11, 1892.

The .right to intervene in a cause, conferred by sees. 89, 90 of the Dakota
Code of Civil Procedure upon a person interested in the subject of a litigation, relates to an immediate and direct interest by which the intervenor may either gain or lose by the direct legal operation and effect of
the judgment, and can only be exercised by leave of the court, in the
exercise of its discretion ; and if the request to intervene is made for
the first time in a case which had been pending for two years, and just
as it is about to be tried, it is a reasonable exercise of that discretion to
refuse the request.
Since the enactment of the act of January 6, 1873, (Laws of Dakota Territory,
1872-73, pp. 63, 64,) a deed of land within. Dakota executed and ac-.
knowledged without the State before a notary public having an official
seal, and certified by him under his hand and official seal, is sufficient to
admit the deed to record and'in ei'idence, without further proof ; and
the fact that the recording officer in making the record of the deed fails
to place upon the record a note of the official seal, does not affect the
admissibility of the original.
When the defendant in his answer admits the execution of an instrument
set up by the plaintiff in his declaration, and claims that it is invalid by
reason of matters set forth in the answer, that instrument is admissible
in evidence.
The finding, in a suit to quiet title, that the plaintiff and her grantees had
been in continued possession of the premises from a given day is the
finding of an ultinate fact, and the sufficiency of the evidence to support
it cannot be considered on appeal
Possession. and cultivation of a portion of a tract under claim of ownership of all, is a constructive possession of all, if the remainder is not in
adverse possession of another.
In Dakota a person purchasing real estate in litigation from the party In
possession, in good faith and without knowledge or notice of the pendency of the litigationumay acquire a good titib as against the other party
if no ZUspendens has beeu filed.

TmIs- was an action originally brought by Gale in the
District Court of Minnehliaha County, %againgtthe widow and
heirs of Daniel G. Shillock, Samuel A. 'Bentley and Byron

OCTOBER TERMVI, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

M. Smith, to quiet the title of the plaintiff to certain landg of
which it was averred the defendants unjustly claimed to have
title in fee.
The following facts are abstracted from the finding of the
court:
.Both parties claimed title from Margaret Frazier, who, on
the 1st day of July, 1864, became grantee of the land in fee
by a patent of the United States of that date.
Plaintiff's chain of title was as follows:
1. Power of attorney, Margaret Frazier to William H.
Grant, executed December 9, 1868, authorizing him to sell
and convey all her real estate in the Territory of Dakota,
etc., and to execute a warranty deed of conveyance in her
name.
2. Warranty deed, Margaret Frazier by William H. Grant
her attorney-in-fact, to Louisa E. Gale, wife of the plaintiff
Artemas Gale, executed October 12, 1870, for a consideration
of $160. Under this deed the court -found that Mrs. Gale
entered into possession; caused the property to be surveyed
and the boundaries to be marked; and thence to the time of
her decease, continued in open, continuous and uninterrupted
possession, which possession was continued by Artemas Gale,
her husband, and his grantees hereinafter mentioned, who
have been, and at the time of the trial, were in actual possession of said premises.
3. Will of Louisa E. Gale, who died June 27, 1880, devising this property to her husb~and Artemas Gale, the plaintiff.
This .will was probated July 29, 1880, and filed for record
July 5, 1883.
This suit was begun September 27, 1882. During its pendency, and on August 1, 1883, plaintiff Gale conveyed the
lands in question to Helen G. McKennan by warranty deed
for a valuable consideration, and on August 14, 1883, Helen
G. M Kennan conveyed an undivided half of the same to
Melvin Grigsby.
The defgndant's chain of title was as 'follows:
1. Warranty deed, Margaret Frazier to Oscar Hodgdon,
dated May 29, 1872, for a cdnsideration of $500. This deed

SMITH v. GALE.
Statement of the Case.

was executed eighteen months after the deed to Louisa E.
Gale. The court found that there was no other evidence
offered or submitted, tending to prove that any consideration
was paid for such transfer, or that the grantee Hodgdon did
not then have actual notice or knowledge of the prior conveyance of"Frazier to Gale, or that at the time Hodgdon was an
innocent purchaser of the said property for a valuable consideration, without notice of the outstanding title in Louisa E.
Gale.
2. Quit-claim deed by Oscar Hodgdon to defendant Byron
If. Smith, executed June 20, 1874, the property being then in
the actual and open possession of Louisa E. Gale.
3. Warranty deed, Margaret Frazier to Daniel G. Shillock
and to Samuel A. Bentley, executed May 14, 1873. Subsequent to this conveyance Shillock died, leaving a widow and
heirs, who, with Smith and ]entley, were made defendants.'
It was claimed by defendants that the power of attorney
from Frazier to Grant was obtained for the purpose of enabling the latter to locate land scrip owned, by Frazier, and
selling the land so located; that it was not intended to be
used in conveying the land in question; that such use of it
was fraudulent; and that Gale and his wife, well knowing
these facts, procured Grant to make a deed, under and by virtue of said power of attorney, to Louisa E. Gale. In this connection, however, the court found that Mrs. Gale was an innocent purchaser for a valuable consideration of the property in
controversy; that if said power of attorney was procured
from Margaret Frazier by fraud, and if the conveyance by
Grant to Gale was fraudulently made, the said Louisa E. Gale
and Artemas Gale were neither of them cognizant of such
facts, and had no knowledge or notice whatever of such alleged fraud; and that Helen G. McKennan was also an innocent purchaser for valuable consideration of said property,
and, at the time of the conveyance from Artemas Gale to her,
had no notice or knowledge whatever of the pendency" of this
action, or of the ground upon which Smith claimed an interest
in the property.
Upon the day before the case was tried, Margaret Frazier

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Appellant.

filed a complaint, denying Gale's possession of the lands, averring the title to be in Smith, or in herself for the benefit of
Smith, and asked leave of the court to intervene and be made
a defendant. This was refused, and the court found as conclusions of law, from the facts above stated, that Artemas
Gale, the plaintiff, was, at the time of the commencement of
the action, the owner in fee; that McKennan and Grigsby
were, at the time of the trial, the owners each of an undivided
half in fee simple; and that the warranty deed from Frazier
to Hodgdon, and the quit-claim deed from Hodgdon to Smith,
and the warranty deed of Frazier to Shillock and Bentley,
were all of them void, and conveyed no title, right, interest
or estate in the said property; and upon these conclusions a
decree was entered, confirming the title in McKennan and
Grigsby. From this decree of the District Court both Smith
and Frazier appealed to the Supreme Court of the Territory,
by which it was affirmed, (30 N. W. Rep. 138; 29 N. W. Rep.
661,) and Smith thereupon appealed to this court. Smith having died subsequent to the appeal, the case is now prosecuted
by his executrix.
Xr. Enoch Totten and Yr. -FranklinH. Mackey for appellant.
J. In Dakota the right to have a paxty brought in in order
that there may be a complete determination of the controvesy
is not a discretionary matter with the court. The court "must
cause them to be brought in," and the denial of this right is
error, whether the error takes the form of sustaining a demurrer to the complaint of interVention, or in striking the complaint frpm the fies, or in refusing leave to file the complaint.
Coburn v. Smart, 53 California, '742; Oofey v. Greenfield, 55
California, 382. Mrs. Frazier should have been allowed to
intervene, as she is the grantor with warranty for a valuable
consideration, of a deed which is attacked as null and void,
and without her there can be no complete determination of
the controversy. Camp v. XofoGillicuddy, 10 Iowa, 201.
1 The New York Code is similar in this respect to that of

SMITH v. GALE.
Argument for Appellant.

Dakota, and in that State it is held that whenever it appears
that i complete determination of the controversy cannot be
had without the presence of other parties, the code makes it.
the invperative duty of the court to cause the proper parties to
be brought in. Shaver v. Brainard,29 Barb. 25. Abundant
authority will be found to support this proposition in cases decided under the rule of, equity, that in suits by third paities
to set aside deeds as .oid for fraud as against plaintiffs the
grantors in the deeds to be declared void must be made parties. Lawrence v. Bank of the Republic, 35 N. Y. 320;
Beardsley Scythe Co. v. Foster, 36 N. Y. 561; Lovejoy v. IreZan, 17 Maryland, 525; S. C. 79 Am. Dec. 667.
Even in States where the provisions concerning new parties
are not so liberal, the courts will allow another party to be
brought into the case when his presence is necessary to enable
the defendant to set up an equitable defence. Riner v. Newton,
30 Wisconsin, "640.
H. The third and fourth assignments of error go to the
ruling of the court in admitting in evidence the power of
attorney from Margaret Frazier to Win. H. Grant and the
deed of Grant executed in pursuance of said, power, without
proof of -their execution, on the ground that their execution
was admitted by the defendant's pleadings.
In the ninth paragraph the defendant sets up a separate and
independent defence to the plaintiffs' cause of action, and there
we must look for the admissions, if there are any, of the execution of these instruments.
But that defence, being distinct from and independent of all
others in the action, and entire in itself, any admission of the
power of 'attorney or of the deed which might find its way
into this defence, would not obviate the necessity of proving
execution of the deeds when they aie denied and put in issue
by another defence. Miller v. Chandler, 59 California, 540;
_7.udd v. Thompson, 34 California, 39 ; Troy & Rutland
Railroadv. Herr, 17 Barb. 581. The averments of this separate defence are not admissions of anything stated in the complaint; they are the averments of new matter. If, notwithstanding the authorities just above cited, they are to be taken
VOL. cxLrv-33

OCTOBER TERiM, 1891.
Argument for Appellant.

as admissions at all, then they are to be taken as an entirety.
Co. v. Nfewton, 22 Wall. 32; Znsurance Co. v.
-Mutual Is.
Jigginbotham,95 U. S. 380; Craigv. Tappin, 2 Sandf. Oh. 78.
III. The ninth assignment of error is to the court's finding
that the power of attorney from Frazier to Grant was duly
recorded. As the consideration of this assignment involves
the same question which must be considered with regard to
the eleventh assignment of error, which is to the finding of
the court that the deed of Grant to Gale was duly recorded,
we will consider them together. If defendant has not admitted the execution of these instruments and they are not
duly recorded, then they were improperly admitted in evidence
without proof of execution, and plaintiffs' whole case fails.
Or if they were not duly recorded, and the instruments constituting defendant's chain of title were duly recorded, and
defendant was a bona de purchaser for value, then also plaintiffs' case fails.
The Dakota Code of Civil Procedure, sec. 493, provides that
"every instrument in writing which is acknowledged or proved,
and duly recorded, is admissible in evidence without further
proof." Plaintiffs introduced in evidence, over defendant's
objection, certificates of register of deeds on the back of the
instruments, purporting ho certify that they had been duly
recorded. These were not admissible. :No statute of this
Territory, prior to the -present revised codes (1877), requires
registers of deeds to make any endorsement whatever on
instruments recorded by them; therefore, the certificate not
having been made in the _performance of a duty enjoined by
law upon the officer, is not evidence of the facts recited in it.
Board of Water Commissioners v. Lansing, 45 N. Y. 19; Pairyear v. Beard, 14 Alabama, 121.
Neither the instruments themselves nor the record of them
disclose the certificate of magistracy and authenticity required
at the time of their execution and attempted record by section
518 of the Civil Code of 1865-66; and the record does not show
that the certificate of acknowledgment attached to either
instrument was under the official seal of the officer whose
name is subscribed to it. The record of a deed is not con-

SMITH v. GALE.
Argument for Appellant.

.structive notice of its existence or contents, unless all the prerequisites prescribed by law in respect to its registration are
observed. Piingle v. -Dunn, 37 Wisconsin, 449; Buell v.
Irwin, 24 Michigan, 145.
It is the deed "as spread upon the record" which imports
constructive notice, and subsequent purchasers are chargeable
with notice only of- what the record shows, and if a deed be
properly executed, but defectively recorded, as to subsequent
purchasers the defective record is not notice and cannot be aided
by the production of the original instrument. Girardin v.
Lampe, 58 Wisconsil., 267; Taylor v. Rarrison, 47 Texas,
154; Tood v. Cochrane, 39 Vermont, 544; Potter v. Dooey,
55 Vermont, 512; Frost v. Beekeman, 1 Johns. Ch. 288;. Beekman v. Frost, 18 Johns. 514; S. C. 9 Am. Dec. 246; 1Piinge
v. Dunn, 37 Wisconsin, 449; Chamberlain v. Bell, 7 California, 294; S. C. 68 Am. Dec. 260; Terrell v. Andrew County,
44 Missouri, '309; Parret v. jhawbhut, 5 Minnesota, 323;
S. C. 80 Am. Dec. 424.
The certifidate made by statute a prerequisite to recording
was not attached either to Gale's deed or to the power of
attorney. Hence there was no authoritjr for the record of
these instruments at the time they -were spread upon the
record. Nor ivas this defect cured by the curative act of
.January 6, 1873, inasmuch as it does not appear of record that
the official seals of the notaries public.who took the acknowl.edgments were impressed upon the instruments. From and
after that date an acknowledgment certified by a notary under
,his seal entitled a deed to record without additional certificate;
.and a record showing a deed' acknowledged before a notary'
and certifled by him under his offbial seal was cured and made
Seffective from that date though it lacked the additional certificate; but if the notary's seal was wanting -from the instrument to be recorded-in the one case, or from the record to be
cured in the other, the additional certificate was as necessary
after that act as before. Gale's deed -and -power of attorney
became entitled to record at the time of the passage of this
act. He might at that time have caused these instruments to
.be duly recorded, but he did not. The former attempted

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Counsel for Appellees.

record, however, was not cured, because it did not appear of
record that the instruments bore notarial seals, and the same
act which cured certain defective certificates limited that cure
to cases when the notary's seal appeared.
IV. The 13th and 14th assignments of error go to the question whether Louisa E. Gale was in actual, open, continuous
and uninterrupted possession of the property at the time of
the making of the deeds of Frazier to Hodgdon and of Hodgdon to Smith.
There was no such possession by Gale as would have been con-'
structive notice to Hodgdon. To affect him with such notice,
therd must have been an actual, open, notorious and exclusive
ocmpaney of the land.
This occupancy and possession must have been unequivocal,
not ambiguous or liable to be misunderstood. AMffeehan v.
rown v. VFolGrifing, 3 Pick. 149; S . C. 15 Am. Dec. 198;
kening, 64 N. Y. 76 ; Page v. Waring, 76 N. Y. 463 ; Jom'pson v. Burhous, 79 Nj. Y. 93.
The possession must be such as to arrest attention before it
•will'even put purchasers on inquiry. Loughridge v. Bowland,
52 Mississippi, 546.
V. The 15th assignment is to the finding that Louisa E.
Gale was an innocent purchaser for a valuable consideration.
We submit that this finding is not sustained by the evidence.
VI. The last assignment of error is to the finding that.
Helen G. McKennan and her grantor, Melvin Grigsby, were
innocent purchasers without notice of the pending oi this action.
Mrs. McKennan was not a purchaser in good faith. She
had notice of facts sufficient to put a prudent person upon inquiry.. When a person is put upon inquiry he must examine
the records or question the grantor or third persons, and if he
refrains he is chargeable with whatever he might have learned
from, such- examination and inquiry. Sergeant v. Ingersoll,7
Penn. St; 340. Inadequacy of price puts one upon inqdiry.
Wade on Notice,.13. Tle relationship of the parties is also
to be considered. 2 Pom. Eq. Jur. 29; Wade on Notice, 14.
.Mr. C. K. Davis for appellees.
with him on the brief.

.MY. .Afelvin 'Grigsq

y was

SMITH v. GALE.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. TusTioE Buo~wi delivered the opinion of the court.
This case was tried in the court of original juiisdiction
without a jury, upon the amended and supplemental answers
of Byron M. Smith and the replies thereto of Gale, Grigsby
and McKennan, and was appealed to the Supreme Court of
the Territory, and thence to this. court, upon exceptions of the
defendant Smith to certain proceedings upon said trial.
(1) Error is alleged in the refusal of the court to permit
-vargaret Frazier to file an intervening complaint, and be
joined with defendant Smith as a necessary party to the complete determination of the controversy. By see. 89 of the
Dakota Code of Civil Procedure, respecting parties to. civil
actions, "the court mayr determine any controversy between
the parties before it, when it can be done without prejudice to
the rights of others, or by saving their rights; but when a
complete deterhinationz of the controver'y cannot be had with.out the presence of other parties, the court must cause thein
to be brought in." And by sec. 90: "Aiy person may, be7
fore the trial, intervene in any action or proceeding, who has
an interest in the matter in litigation, in the success of either
party;, or an interest against both. An intervention takes
place when a third person is permitted to become a party to
an action or pr6ceeding between other persons, either by joining the plaintiff in claiming what is sought by the complaint,
or by uniting with the defendant in resisting the claims of
the plaintiff, or by demanding anything adversely to both th6
plaintiff and the defendant, and is made by complaint, setting
forth the grounds upon which the intervention rests, filed by
leave of the court," etc. This complaint set forth, in Isubstance, the issue of the patent to the complainant in 1864, and
the conveyance to Hodgdon May 29, 1872, and averred that
Hodgdon had no knowledge or notice that any person was
then in possession of the lands; denied that any person was
in possession thereof; further alleged.-the execution of the
deed from Hodgdon to Smith of June 20, 1814; and averred
that plaintiff had falsely claimed that he or his wife were in
possession of the land, and that by reason there6f the deeds

OCTOBER TERAM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court:

to Hodgdon and Smith were void. And 'this complainant
avers that, in case said Smith does not now have the legal title
to said land, the legal title to the whole thereof is now in this
complainant, and that she now holds the same for the ise and
benefit of said Smith, his heirs and assigns, and for no one else."
These provisions of the Dakota code above cited are found
in the codes of several of the States, and appear to have been
originally adopted from Louisiana, wherein it is held by the
Supreme Court, interpreting a similar section, that the interest
which. entitles a party to intervene must be a direct interest,
by which the intervening party is to obtain immediate gain or
suffer loss by the judgment which may be rendered between
the original parties. Gasquet v. Johnso, 1 La. 425, 431. In
Horn v. Volcano Water Co., 13 California, 62, 69, the Supreme
Court of California had occasion to constru- a similar provision of the code of that State, and held, speaking through MrJustice Field, now a member of this court, that "the interest
mentioned in the statute which entitles a person to intervene
in a suit-between other parties must be in the matter in litigation, and of such a direct and immediate character that the
intervenor will either gain or lose by the direct legal operation
and effect of the judgment. . . . To authorize an intervention, therefore, the interest must be that created by a claim
to the demand or some part thereof in suit, or lien upon the
property, or some part thereof, in suit, or a claim to or lien
upon the property, or some part thereof, which is the subject
of litigation." In .ewis v. Harwood, 28 Minnesota, 428, the
cases from Louisiana and California were cited with approval.
In that case the-persons who sought to intervene held attachments upon some property subsequent to those of the plaintiff
in the suit. The suit was upon certain promissory notes axecuted to the plaintiff by the defendants, and the intervenors
claimed that the notes were without consideration and fraudulent; that the plaintiff's attachments were fraudulent; and
that the suit and attachments were in execution of a collusive
scheme between the plaintiff and defendant to defraud the
intervenors, who were bona fde creditors of the defendant.
It was held that the complaint of the intervenors did not dis.

SMITH v. GALE.
Opinion of the Court.

close such an interest in the subject matter of the suit a, to
entitle them to intervene, and that the plaintiff's motion to
dismiss the sanie should be granted. The decision was put
upon the ground that when the judgment was entered against
the defendants, the whole subject matter of the suit was disposed of; and that the writ of attachment was a part of the
remedy and had nothing to do with the cause of action. I If
property is seized by virtue of the writ to which another has a
better right, the vindication of such right involves, another
and independent judicial inquiry."
The intervention must be not only to protect the direct and
immediate interest of the intervenor in a suit, but she is
bound to make that interest. appear by proper allegations in
her petition. Cofey v. Green~feld, 62 California, 602. In
this case the petition not only fails to show any title in the
intervenor, and no beneficial clhim to or lien upon the property in suit, but it shows conclusively that such interest as she
once had has been conveyed away to Hodgdon, and that the
only actual interest she could possibly have in the result of
the litigation was the contingency of being held upon the
covenants of warranty in the deed to Hodgdon. This, however, is not the direct and immediate interest which, under
the construction given to this statute by the courts of Louisiana, California and Minnesota - a construction which we do
not hesitate to adopt- is necessary in order to entitle a person to intervene. Her liability to Smith would depend upon
the scope of her covenants, and -oiuld properly be determined
in a separate action. But it is needless to consider her claim
further, since she has not appealed from the decision of the
court denying her right to intervene, and the appeal of Smith
brings up that question only so far as the ruling of the court
was injurious to his interests.
Appellant Smith's argument in this connection is that, under
section 681 of the Dakota Civil Code, "every grant of real
property, other than one made by the Territory, or under a
judicial sale, is void, if at the time of the delivery thereof sudh
real property is in the actual possession of a person claiming
under a title adverse to that of the grantor;" that, as the

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

Gales were in adverse possession of this land under a claim of
title, when the deed to Hodgdon, was delivered, such deed,
under the provisions of this section, was void, and conveyed
no title to Hodgdon, nor did Hodgdon's deed to himself, and
hence that he did not stand in a position to resist the claim of
Gale, and that his rights could only be determined in a suit to
which Margaret Frazier was a party, since she was in a position to claim that the deed to Mrs. Gale was void by reason
of her fraudulent connivance with Grant. For these reasons
he claims that the title to these lands is, as against the Gales,
still in Margaret Frazier, and that, if.she succeeded in showing
that her deed to the Gales was void by reason of fraud, her
title would enure to his use and benefit, under the deed to
Hodgdon and that from Hodgdon to himself. In this connection he calls the attention of the court to a number of cases
holding that a deed of land held in adverse possession is good
as against the grantor and his heirs, and against strangers,
though void as against the party in, possession; and that, it
being void as against the latter, an action would lie against
him in the name of the grantor, notwithstanding such deed,
but not in the name of the grantee. A redov.ery therein, however, will enure to the benefit of the grantee. Ram-ilton v.
TF'right, 37 N. Y. 502; H7asbrouck v. Bunce, 62 N. Y. 475,
482 ; ChamberlainV. Taylor, 92 N. Y. 348 ; Farnuwiv. Peterson, 111 Mass. 148, 151; 3fXo~lahan v. Bowe, 114 Mass. 140.
There is great plausibility in this position, and we are not
dispos.ed to hold that the court might not have permitted this
complaint in intervention to be filed. But by section 90 of
the code, above cited, such complaint must be fied by leave of
the court, a limitation upon the right to intervene which presupposes a certain amount of discretion in the court. Such
right ought to be claimed within a reasonable time, and may
be properly refused in a case like the present one, where the
action had been pending two Years, and was about to be tried.
Hooker v. Kelley, 14 California, 164.
There were other circumstances in this case which doubtless had their influence in determining the court not to permit
this complaint to be filed. The Galed had been in adverse

SMITE v. GALE.
Opinion of the Court.

possession of the land for nearly twelve years under a claim
of title, and, according to the facts found by the court, had
broken and cultivated about twenty acres. Hodgdon had
received his deed eighteen months after the deed to 'Gale, and
Smith had received his deed from ]Hodgdon in 1874, nearly
eight years before this suit was begun by Gale to quiet his
title. Although these.parties 'were chargeable with notice of
the fact that the Gales were in open and notorious possession
of this land, yet, during all this time, they made no movement
looking toward an assertion of their own title to it. While,
under the cases from New York and Massachusetts above
cited, they might not have been able to institute a suit in
their own name against Gale, they might have instituted an
action against him in the name of their grantor, Frazier, and
a recovery thereunder would have enured to their benefit.
Instead of that they lay by for eighteen months after the suit
was begun, and then, upon the eve of the trial, after Smith
had filed an original, an amended and a supplemental answer,
he asked that Frazier be permitted to intervene and set up her
title as against Gale. Under this state of facts the'court
might not unreasonably hold that the application came too
late; and that if Smith desired to assert any righcs in the
name of Frazier he should take the initiative and file a bill in
her name to annul the deed to Gale upon the ground of fraud.
(2) Several assignments of error relate to the ruling of the
court admitting in evidence the power of attorney from Frazier
to Grant, and the deed executed in pursuance of such power.
These instruments were executed in Minnesota; were acknowledged before a notary public of Ramsey County in that
State, who certified to the same under his official seal, and to
this acknowledgment was appended *acertificate of the Secretary of State of Minnesota, to the effect that the. notary
taking the acknowledgment had been duly appointed and
qualified, etc.; that full faith atid credit were due to his official acts; and that his signature was genuine, and the instrument executed and acknowledged in accordance with the laws
of the State. Endorsed uponthese instruments was the certificate of the register of deeds of Minnehaha County, Dakota,

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

that they had been filed for record in August, 1871. Objection was made to the admission of these conveyances upon
the ground that, having been executed without the State, the
certificate of the officer taking the acknowledgment ought to
have been "accompanied by a certificate under the name and
official seal of the clerk, register, recorder or prothonotary of
the county in which such officer resides . . . specifying
that such officer was at the time of taking the proof or acknowledgment duly authorized," etc., as required by section
528 of the Civil Code of 1865-66. Under this statute, the
certificate of the secretary of State was insufficient and
immaterial.
In January, 1873, after these instruments were
executed, an
act was passed by the legislature of Dakota providing "that
the proof or acknowledgment of any deed, mortgage or other
iistrument may be made either within or without this Territory and within the United States, before any public officer
having an official seal, including notaries public," etc. "Sec. 2.
Whenever the proof or acknowledgment of any deed, mortgage or other instrument is certified by a public officer having
an official seal, dnder his hand and seaZ, it shall be a sufficient
authentication of such instrument to entitle it to record," etc.
By sec. 5 : "All records of instruments heretofore made in any
of the counties of the Teiritory, the acknowledgment and certificate of which instruments are taken and certified by the
officers, and in the manner herein provided, shall, from and
after the taking effect of this act, have the same force and
effect as though such certificates of acknowledgment were
accompanied by the additional certificates heretofore required
by law."
This curative act did away with the necessity of any certificate additional to that of the notary public, provided the latter certified to the acknowledgment under his hand and seal.
The certificates upon the original instruments were attested
by an official seal. It seems, however, that in putting these
instruments upon record in the register's office in the county
of Minnehaha, the scrivener omitted to make a similitude on
the record of the notarial seal, or a scroll or symbol to indi-

SMITH v. GALE.

523.

Opinion, of the Court.

cate it, and the defendant introduced the record books in
which these instruments had been recorded to show this fact.
It was claimed at this point that the deeds did not prove
themselves, as they had not been duly recorded. By section
493 of the Dakota Code of Civil Procedure it is enacted that
"every instrument in writing, which is acknowledged or
proved, and duly 'ecorded, is admissible in evidence without
further proof."
These instruments, however, under the curative act of 1873,
were perfect upon their face, the certificate of the secretary of
State being mere surplusage, and that of the notary being
accompanied by his official seal. Now, while section 5 of this
act makes the records of instruments heretofore made evidence,
notwithstanding the want of a certificate of authorization, it
ought not to be held that the original instrument, which is
perfect upon its face, is made inadmissible by the fact that the
record of such instrument 'has omitted the official seal of the
notary. The record of the instrument is really but secondary
evidence, although by statute it is made primary; and -it
would be sticking in the bark to hold that the original instrument, having the official seal of the notary to the acknowledgment, should be defeated by the fact that in recording
such instrument the seal was accidentally omitted.
The
record of such instrument might thereby become inadmissible
as a substitute for the original, but so slight an omission as
this in the record ought not to defeat the original instrument
as evidence. iStarkweather v. .fartin, 28 Mfichigan, 412. It
would be a singular perversion of the principles of natural justice if, with a perfect deed before the court and a record which
lacked only a scrawl or other symbol of a seal, neither could
be admitted in evidence by reason of the fact that they did
not exabtly correspond, or, to speak more accurately, were not
exactly identical, especially when the record could be amended
on the spot by adding the representation of a seal. The court
should not permit such a plain defeat of justice as this would
be, by an obstinate adherence to a statutory requirement.
But, if there were any doiibts regarding the admissibility of
these documents, we think '.hey are resolved by the allegations

OCTOBER TERMf, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

of the amended answer of Smith, wherein, after denying in
general terms that Frazier by her warranty deed, or in any
other way, sold or conveyed to Gale the land in question, he
proceeds to allege that Gxant on December 9, 1868, offered to
take her scrip and locate the same upon such of the piblic
lands as he might select, if she would execute to him a power
authorizing him to convey the same to whomsoever he should
elect; that she assented to this, and thereupon he presented
her a power of attorney in writing, bearing the above date,
which he had himself drawn up, representing to her that he
would only use it to sell the lands located by the scrip; that
thereupon she executed the same; and that subsequently the
Gales, knowing all these facts, fraudulently procured Grant
on the 12th day of October, 1870, to execute and deliver to
Louisa E. Gale a deed of the lands in question; and that Frazier never received any consideration for the same. Taking
all these allegations together, they constitute a clear admission
that a power of attorney and deed corresponding in description to those offered in evidence were executed upon the days
these respectively bear date, but that the same were made use
of for the fraudulent purpose of conveying other lands than
those intended by Frazier when she executed the power of
attorney. The allegations, however, were broad enough to
admit the instruments without further proof of their execution
or delivery, subject to any attack which the defendant might
choose to make upon the manner in which they had been procured, and the use which had been made of them. It is true
that when a general denial is pleaded in connection with a
special defence of new matter, or two inconsistent defences
are set up, the admissions in the one cannot be used to destroy
the effect of the other. Glenn v. Sumner, 132 IU.S. 152, 157.
In this case, however, there are no inconsistent defences; the
general denial itself is qualified by a, denial of each and every
allegation of the complaint "not expressly admitted;" the
defence is, in reality, a single one, namely, that Frazier did
not sell or convey to Gale the land in question, although she
did execute a power of attorney,'on, its face authorizing Grant
to convey according .to its terms; and that he did in pursuance

SMITH v. GALE.
Opinion of the Court.

of such power assume to execute and deliver to Mrs. Gale a
deed of this property. The admission of the actual execution
and delivery of these instruments, as they appear upon their
face, is as clear and distinct as the denial of their legal effect.
Cook v. Barr, 44 N. Y. 156; Shafter v. Richards, 14 Cali-

fornia, 125; Philade phia &c. Railroad v. Howard, 13 How.
307; H artwell v. Page, 14 Wisconsin, 49; -Derbyv. Galtap, 5
Minnesota, 119; Barnnum v. XEennedy, 21 Kansas, 181.
* (3) The thirteenth and fourteenth assignments of error relate to the sufficiency and notoriety of Mrs. Gale's possession
to charge Hodgdon and Smith with notice of her claim to the
land, in case the record of her deed was not of itself sufficient
notice.
In this connection the court below found as a fact that on
or about the 15th day of June, 1871, the said Louisa E. Gale
took actual possession of such real property; "that among
other acts of possession and ownership she then caused said
real property to be surveyed, and the boundaries thereof to be
marked by mounds and stakes; she caused to be broken and
cultivated a portion thereof along the north side, consisting
of about ten acres; that subsequently, during the year 1874,
she caused to be broken and cultivated about ten acres more
of said land, and that, continuously from and after the spring
,of 1871 to the time of her decease an4 devise to this plaintiff,
Artemas Gale, she continued to openly use, occupy and possess said real property, and that such possession and occupation were actual, open, continuous and uninterrupted, and that
such occupation and possession of said premises have been continuous by her devisee, said Artemas Gale, and his grantees,
the said Helen G. McKennan and the said Melvin Grigsby,"
etc. This finding of possession is, under the case of,.iining
Co. v. Taylor, 100 U. S. 37, the finding of an ultimate fact
and has the same legal effect as the finding of a jury in a
special verdict, and the sufficiency of the evidence to support
the finding cannot be considered upon this appeal. Idaho &c.
Land Co. v. Bradbury, 132 U. S. 509, 514.
While their actual occupancy and cultivation of the property did not apparently extend to the entire tract, we think it

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

was sufficient, under the case of Ellicott v. Pearl,10 Pet. 412,
to give the Gales a constructive possession of the whole tract,
the remainder not being in the adverse possession of anybody.
In that case it was held that where there has been an entry
on land under color of title by deed, the possession is deemed
to extend to the bounds of that deed, although the actual settlement and improvements are on a small parcel only of the
tract. In such case, where there is no adverse possession, the
law construes the entry to be coextensive with the grant to
the party, upon the ground that it is his clear intention to
assert such possession. So also Ewing v. Bumet, 11 Pet. 41,
52; Brobst v. Brock, 10 Wall. 519, 532; Hunnicutt v. .Peyton,
102 U. S. 333.
We think there is nothing in section 46 of the Dakota Code
of Civil Procedure which, fairly construed, conflicts with this
view. Certainly, if there were any. doubt in this matter, the
finding of possession by the court below would be sufficient
to turn the scale in the plaintiff.s favor.
(4) There is also an assignment of error to the finding that
Helen G. McKennan and her grantee Grigsby were innocent
purchasers without notice of the pendency of the action. The
defendant Smith, by his supplemental answer, alleged that
they were not purchasers in good faith, nor for a valuable
consideration, and that they purchased with notice. To this
M Kennan and Grigsby made denial.
In order to charge purchasers of property with notice. of
the pendency of a suit, it is necessary, under the statutes of
Dakota, to file a lispeandens with the register of deeds of the
county in which the land is situated, containing the names of
the parties, the object of the action, and a description of the
property. There appears to have been no lis pendens filed in
this case, and hence no constructive notice. of the suit. As
the court finds that Mrs. McKennan was an innocent purchaser of the property for a valuable consideration, and had
no notice or knowledge of the pendency of the action, or' of
the ground upon which defendant Smith claimed an interest
in the property, and as there is no. evidence to contradict this,
we know of no reason why she or Grigsby -should not be held

TORRENCE v. SHEDD.
Statement of the Case.

to have acquired a good title to the property, although purchased during the pendency of this litigation, and although
the title which Mrs. Gale acquired might have been impeachable for fraud. It is true that Airs. McKennan was a sister of
Gale, living in IRochester, N. Y., and bought the property
while on a visit to' her brother; but she swears that she paid
$8000 for it, and there is nothing above the dignity of a suspicion to contradict her.
Several other errors in the action. of the court below are set
up in the assignment, but they are either immaterial or have
been already disposed of in the assignnents passed upon.
The judgment of the court below will, therefore, be
Affirme, and the mandate will icsue to the Supreme 0ourt
of South Dakota.

TORRENCE v. SHEDD.
APPEAL FROm THE CIRoUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 244.

Argued March 25, 1892. -Decided

April 11, 1892.

A suit in a state court for partition of land cannot be removed into- the
Circuit Court of the United States under the act of March 3, 1875, c. 137,
§ 2, by reason of a controversy between the plaintiff and a citizen of
another State, intervening and claiming.whatever may be set off to the
plaintiff.
When, on appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of the United States
upon the merits, it appears that the case had been wrongfully removed
from a state court on petition of the appellant,: the decree should be
reversed for want of jurisdiction, and the case remanded to the Circuit
Court, with directions to remand it to the state -cdurt, and with costs
against him in this court and in the Circuit Court!

THIs was a bill in equity, filed August 29, 1881, in the
superior court of Cook County in the State of Illinois, by
Joseph T. Torrence against Susan M. Shedd, John B. Brown
and ninety others, for partition of a tract of land in that
county, to an undivided third of which the plaintiff claimed
title under a deed. from Edward Sorin. Brown and twenty

