OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Syllabus.

The case then proceeded to judgment, and, a decree for the
plaintiff being rendered, the defendants appealed to this
court.
Mr. W. H. ]?omsington, -Yr. Charles Blood S th, .Mr.
-Everett J. Dallas and JXr. John T. Xforton, for appellants,
submitted on their brief.
Mr.E. S. Quinton for appellee. -Mr. A. B. Quinton and
_fr. A. Bergen were with him on -the brief.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE: Upon the authority of Stevens v. .Niwhols,
130 U. S. 230; Jackson'v. Allen, 132 U. S. 27; La Confince
Compagnie v. -Hall,137 U. S. 61, and other cases, the decree
in this case must be reversed, at the costs of appellants in
this court and in the Circuit Court, and the cause remanded
to the Circuit Court with directions to remand it to the state
court.

NATIONAL EXCHANGE BANK OF BALTIMORE v.
PETERS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA.
No. 1369. Submitted April 4, 1892.-

Decided April 18, 1892.

The Judiciary Act of March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. c. 517, pp. 826, 827, having provided that no appeals shall be taken from circuit courts to this court
except as provided in that act and having repealed all acts and parts
of acts relating to appeals or writs of error inconsistent with the provisions.for review by appeals or writs of error contained in that act, and
the .joiiit resolution of March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. 1115, having provided
that nothing contained in that act shall be held to impair the jurisdiction
of this court in respect of any case wherein the writ of error or the
appeal shall have been sued out or taken to this court before July 1,
1891, it is !eZR, that an appeal to this court from a judgment entered
in a circuit court November 18, 1890, appealable before July 1, 1891,
could not be taken after July 1, 1891.

MOTION TO DISmiSS.

The case is stated in the opinion.

NATIONAL BANK OF BALTIMORE v. PETERS.

571

Opinion of the Court.

-Lr. -Robert
,motion.

. lughes and Mr. A fred P. TXorn for the

Xr. William F. Frick, Mr. John Neely and Mrb'. G. -H.
Dillard opposing.
MR. CHImF JUSTICE FuLLR delivered the opinion of the
court.
This was a bill brought against the receiver of an insolvent
national bank and its late directors, in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Eastern District of Virginia, to
which a demurrer was sustained and the bill dismissed, November 18, 1890. On August 20, 1891, an appeal was allowed
to this court, bond for. costs given and approved, and citation
issued and served. The case comes before us on a motion to
dismiss:
Section 4 of the Judiciary Act of March 3, 1891, (26 Stat.
c. 51', pp. 826, 821,) provides: "That no appeal, whether by
writ of error or otherwise, shall hereafter be taken or allowed
from-any District Court to the existing Circuit Courts,'and no
appellate jurisdiction shall hereafter be exercised or allowed
by said existing Circuit Courts, but all appeals by writ of
error [or] -otherwise, from 'said District Courts shall only be
subject to review in the Supreme Court of the United States
or in the Circuit Court of Appeals hereby established, as is
hereinafter provided, and the*review, by appeal, by writ of
error, or otherwise, from the existing Circuit Courts shall be
had only in the Supreme Court of the United States or in th~e
Circuit Courts of Appeals hereby established according to the
provisions of this act regulating the same." By section 14 ok
that act, section six hundred and ninety-one of the Revised
Statutes, and section three of the act of February 16, 1875, c.
T, (18 Stat. 316,) and "all acts and parts of acts relating to
appeals or writs of eiror inconsistent with the provisions for
review by appeals or writs of error in the preceding sections
five and six. of this act," were repealed..
By section 5 it is provided that appeals or writs of error

OCTOBER TERf, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

may be taken from the District Courts or from the existing
Circuit Courts direct to the Supreme Court in any case in
which the jurisdiction of the court is in issue; from the final
sentences and decrees in prize causes; in cases of conviction
of a capital or otherwise infamous crime; in any case involving the construction or application of the Constitution of the
United States; in any case in which the constitutionality of
any law of the United States, or the validity or construction
of any treaty made under its authority, is drawn in question;
and in any case in which the constitution or law of a State is
claimed to be in contravention of the Constitution of the
United States. But nothing in the act was to affect the jurisdiction of this court in cases appealed from the highest court
of a State, nor the construction of the statute providing for
review of such cases.
In view of the general rule that if a law conferring jurisdiction is repealed, without any reservation as to pending
cases, all such cases fall with the law, Railroad Company v.
Grant, 98 U. S.398; Gurnee v. Patrick County,137 U. S.141,
a joint resolution was passed on March '3,1891, providing
"that nothing in said act shall be held or construed in anywise to impair the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court or any
Circuit Court of the United States in any case now pending
before it;" and it was added, "or in respect of any case
wherein the writ of error or the appeal shall have been sued
out or taken to any of said courts before the first day of July,
anno Domini, eighteen hundred and ninety-one." 26 Stat.
1115, 1116.
The case in hand did not come within either of the six
classes of cases specified in section five; and as the appeal was
not taken until after July 1, 1891, it must be dismissed. Wauton v. _D ' o/f, 142 U. S.138. When the decree was entered,
appellants had two years thereafter in whibh to take an
appeal to this court. The act and resolution of March 3, 1891,
declared that the right must be exercised prior to July 1, 1891.
Although the appellate powers of this court are given by the
Constitution, they are nevertheless limited and regulated by
acts of Congress. -Durousseauv. United States, 6 Cranch, 30,

BROWN v. MASSACHUSETTS.
Statement of the Case.

314. In that case it was held that the affirmative description
of jurisdiction. implied a "negative on the exercise of such
appellate power as is not comprehended within it." And
here the appellate jurisdiction is Aiot left to inference, but is
taken away in terms after the date mentioned.
Appeal dismissed.

BROWN v. MASSAOHUSETTS.
ERROR TO THE SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF MASSACHUSETTS.
1No.839. Argued April 6,1892.-Decided April 18,1892.
A defendant indicted in a state court for*forging discharges for money
payable by a municipal corporation, with intent to defraud it, pleaded in
abatement to the array of the grand jury, and to the array of the traverse
jury, that all the" jurors were inhabitants of the municipality, but did
not at that stage of the case claim in any 'form a right or immunity
under the Constitution of the United States. After conviction, the defendant, by motion in arrest of -judgment, and by exception to the jurisdiction of the court, objected that the proceedings were in violation of
the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States for
the same reason, and also because the selectmen of the municipality who
prepared the jury list, and took the principal part in drawing the jurors,
were at the same time actively promoting this prosecution. The highest
court of the State held the objections takenbefore verdict to be unfounded, and those after verdict to be taken too late. Held, that this
court had no jurisdiction to review the judgment on writ of error.

AN indictment was found by the grand jury in the superior
court for the county of Nantucket and Commonwealth of

Massachusetts, on c. 204, §§ 1, 2, of the Public Statutes of
Massachusetts, containing twenty-four counts, each of which
was for forging, or for uttering, a discharge for money pay-

able by the county of Nantucket, or by the town of Nantucket,
with intent to defraud the county; or the town.

The town and county of Nantucket are geographically identical; the selectmen of the town have the powers of county
commissioners; the town may raise money to pay the expenses of the county; and the treasurer of the town is county
treasurer. Mass. Pub. Stat. c. 22, § 29; c. 23, § 4.

