. 533
5

SHA-RONT v. TUCKER.
Syllabus.

If the-controversy between the plaintiff and Brown on the
one side and Sorin on the other had been such as to justify a
removal, there can be no doubt that after that controversy had
been settled, as shown by the stipulation of the parties to it,
the suit no longer really involved a dispute or controversy
properly within the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court, and
should therefore have been remanded to the state court, under
section 5 of the act of March 3, 1875, c. 137. 18"Stat. 472;
Robinson v. Anderson, 121 U. S. 522; Texas Thansportation
Co. v. Seeligson, 122 Ui. S. 519; Graves v. Corbin, 132 U. S.
571, 590.
But it is unnecessary to dwell upon that view of the case,
because, for the reasons above stated, the original removal on
the petition of the appellant was wrongful; and therefore the
judgment must be reversed for want of jurisdiction, with costs
against the appellant, and the case remanded to the Circuit
Court with directions to render a judgment against him for
costs in that court, and to remand the case to the state cqurt.
Mansfteld &c. Railway v. Swan, 111 IT. S. 379; Graves v. Corlin, above cited.
budgment 'reversed
accordingly.

SHARON v. TUCKER.
APPEAL

FROM THE SUPREME

COURT

OF

THE

DISTRICT

OF

COLUMBIA.
No. 216. Argued March 15, 16, 1892.-

Decided April 11, 1892.

Adverse possessioA 6f real estatd in the District of Columbia, for the
period designated by the Statute of Limitations in force there, confers
upon the occupant a'complete title upon which he can stand as fully as
if he had always held the undisputed title of record.
A possession, to be adverse, must be open, visible, continuous and exclusive, with a claim of ownership, such as will notify parties seeking information upon the subject that the premises are not held in subordination
to any title or claim of others, but against all titles and claimants.
A person who has acquired title by adverse possession may maintain a bill

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case,
in equity against those who, but for such acquisition, would have been
the owners, for the purpose of having his title judicially ascertained and
declared, and to enjoin the defendants from asserting title to the same
premises from former ownership that has been lost.
Such a bill is not a bill of peace, nor is it strictly a bill quia timet. The
ground of the jurisdiction is the obvious difficulty and embarrassment
in asserting and protecting a title not evidenced by any record, but
resting in the recollection of witnesses, and the warrant for its exercise
is found in the ordinary jurisdiction of equity to perfect and complete
the means by which the right, estate or interest of holders of real property, that is their title, may be proved or secured, or to remove obstacles
to its enjoyment.
THE

court stated the case as follows:

This was a suit in equity to establish, as matter of record,
the title of the complainants to certain real property in the
city of Washington, constituting a part of square number one
hundred and fifty-one, aid to enjoin the defendants from asserting title to the same premises as heirs of the former
owner.
The facts which gave rise to it, briefly stated, are as follows: In 1828, Thomas Tudor Tucker died seized of the premises in controversy. He had, at one time, held the office of
Treasurer of the United States, and resided in Washington,
but at the time of his death he was a resident of South Carolina. The property did not pass under his will but descended
to his heirs at law. It does not appear that after his death
any of the heirs took possession of the property or assumed to
exercise any control over it. In 1837 the square was sold for
delinquent taxes, assessed by the city against "the heirs of
Thomas T. Tucker," and was purchased by .Joseph Abbott,
then a resident of the city. The taxes amounted to $38.7 ,
and the sum bid by the purchaser was $250. In 1840 a tax
deed, in conformity with the sale, was made to Abbott, purporting to convey to him a complete title to th6 square. It is
admitted that the deed was invalid for want of some of the
essential preliminaries in assessing the property and in advertising it for sale. It does not appear, however, that the purchaser had any knowledge of this invalidity. Early in the
following year, 1841, he took possession of the square and

SHARON v. TUCKER.
Statement of the Case.

enclosed it with a board fence and a ditch with a hedge
planted on one side of it. It was a substantial enclosure,
sufficient to turn stock and keep them away. He was a stablekeeper, and, in connection with this business, cultivated the
ground and raised crops upon it in 1841. From th6 time he
took possession until 1854 the square was enclosed, and each
season it was cultivated. In 1854 he leased the square to one
Becket for the period of ten years at a yearly rent of one
hundred dollars. Becket took possession under his lease and
kept the ground substantially enclosed, and he occupied and
cultivated it from that time up to 1862. In the fall of that
year soldiers of the United States, returning from the campaign in Virginia, were encamped upon the square, and, as it
appears, they committed such depredations upon the fence,
buildings and crops that the lessee was obliged to abandon its
cultivation. Abbott died in April, 1861, and, by his will,
devised the square to his widow. In August, 1863, she sold
and conveyed it to one PNrry, and he kept a man in charge of
the same, who lived in a small building which Becket had
built and occupied during his .lease of the premises under
Abbott. In 1868, Perry sold the entire square to Henry A.
Willard for the consideration of seventeen thousand six hundred dollars. He divided the square into small lots for buildings for residences, and upon one side of the square, fronting
on T street, erected twelve substantial dwelling-hous6s, which
have been since occupied up to the commencement of this
suit. In 1872., Willard sold and conveyed a portion of the
square, the premises in controversy, to J. M. Latta, trustee,
for a valuable consideration, and from him the title has passed
by regular conveyances to the complainants herein. From
1840 to 1863 the square was chiefly valuable for agricultural
purposes, but since then, and especially of late years, its only
value has been for buildings as residences, and has been so
regarded by its owners. From 1840 up to the present time
the taxes upon the property have been paid .by Abbott and
his successors in interest. None of the heirs of Mr. Tucker,
nor any one claiming under the heirs, has paid or offered to
pay any taxes assessed on- the property, nor, since that date,

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Appellees.

up to the commencement of these suits, have any of the defendants therein or their predecessors in interest asserted any
claim to the property or interest in it, or attempted in any
way to interfere with its possession or control- Soon after
the sale to Perry, in 1863, the tax deed was passed upon by
eminent counsel in the District, the late Richard S. Coxe and
James II. Carlisle, and the title by it was pronounced by them
to be indisputable. It was only a short time before the institution of this suit that the invalidity of the tax deed as a
source of title was ascertained. A desire to dispose of the
prop-rty led the complainants to have an investigation made
and an abstract of title obtained. It was then discovered that
they could not obtain any abstract of title which purchasers
would accept, in consequence of certain defects in the assessment of the taxes under which the sale was made and the
deed to Abbott was executed. They were consequently embarrassed and defeated in their efforts to dispose of the
property. To remove this embarrassment this suit was accordingly brought by the complainants to obtain a judicial
determination of the validity of their title and an injunction
against the defendants claiming under the previous owner.
There was no substantial disagreement between the parties
as to the facts, but the defendants insisted and relied solely
upon the ground that a court of equity could afford no relief
to the complainants, because they were not at the commencement of the suit in actual possession of the premises.
The court below, at special term, sustained this view, and entered a decree dismissing the bill. At general term it affirmed
that decree, and to review this last decree the case is brought
here by appeal.
Mb'. C. J. Hillyer and-i

.r

J..H. Ralston for appellants.

Xfr. Epya Hunton and A'.
appellees.

egy Wise Garnett for

. It is respectfully submitted that the evidence in these cases
does not show such open, notorious and continuous possession

SHARON v. TUCKER.
Argument for Appellees.

of the land in controversy as is necessary to establish a title
by adverse possession.
Even if it should be considered that the complainants have
established a title to the property by adverse possession, yet
they are not entitled to the relief prayed for in their bill. A
party claiming title by-adverse possession alone cannot maintain a bill against the original owners on the groundl that
their title is a cloud upon his own. Frost v. Slitley, 121
U. S. 552.
Those only who have a clear legal and equitable title to
land connected with possession have any right to claim the
interference of a court of equity to give them peace or dissipate a cloud on the title. Orton v. Smith, 18 How. 263;
Croatv. Brown, 11 Maryland, 158; .Afarks v. Main, 4 Mackey,
559, 56 7; Herringtonv. Williams, 31 Texas, 448, 460 ; Holland
v. Cl allen, 110 U. S. 15 ; TFhitehead v. Shattuck, 138 U. S. 146;
Gage v. .Kaufman, 133 U. S. 471.
The proof shows the plaintiffs are out of possession, and
they admit they have no legal title under the tax deed. Alexander v. Pendleton,8 Oranch, 462; Peirsollv. Elliott, 6 Pet. 95.
The court below in affirming the decree of the equity court
followed its decision in Marks v. .iXain, 4 Mackey, 559. It is
submitted that this decision of the District Court in KYarks v.
Main is clearly right, and when applied to the facts in these
two cases the dismissal of these bills followed as a necessary
consequence.
The counsel for complainants in their brief seek to distinguish these cases from Marks v. Main by the statement that
"partial occupation, payment of taxes and constant exercise
of dominion such as was usual with owners and adapted to
the nature and condition of the premises during the twentythree years following 1861 were sufficient to continue and
preserve the adverse character of a possession previously commenced by actual enclosure." They refer to the following
authorities to sustain this position: Ellicott v. Pearl,10 Pet.
412; Ewing v. Burnet, 11 Pet. 41: F-%tcher- v. Fuller, 120
U. S. 534.
The evidence shows no act of possession of the property

OCTOBER TERMt, 1891.
Argument for Appellees.

involved in these two suits (unless the payment of taxes can be
so construed) since 1861.
Ellicott v. Pearlwas a writ of right and did not involve the
question of chancery jurisdiction. It decides that, when a party
takes possession under a deed containing metes and bounds and
builds on a part or encloses a part, the possession is of the
whole tract included in metes and bounds.
Ewing v. Burnet qwha an action of ejectment, and the doctrine held (never seriously controverted) that to constitute
adverse possession there need not be a fence or building, but
for this purpose that visible and notorious acts of ownership
are exercised over the premises.
Fletcher v. Fullerwas an action of ejectment. In this case
the court decides under what circumstances a deed may be
presumed to have been given.
These cases -have no bearing on the question of chancery
jurisdiction.
In the 4th paragraph of the brief the proposition is laid down
that "the relation of defendants to the premises and to the
complainants authorizes the latter to seek relief in equity."
What is this relation? The defendants hold the absolute
record title to this property. The complainants claim under
a tax title admitted to be invalid and which is in fact void.
The complainants have never been in possession, except so far
as payment of taxes may constitute possession. Authorities
are abundant and harmonious that payment of taxes and
speaking publicly of the claim -is not sufficient evidence of
claim of right.. Ewing v. Burnet, 11 Pet. 41 ; Keefe v. Bramhall, 3 Mfackey, 551.
-In Reed v. Field, 15 Vermont, 672, it was held that a tax
deed of fifty years and payment of taxes under color of tax
deed wa not sufficient to show even color of title without
showing validity of deed. In these cases the deed is admitted
to be invalid.
See also iHaglee v. Albright, 4 Wharton, 291; C aman v.
Templeton, 53 Missouri, 463; Angell on Limitation, ยง 396.
The case of Bunce v. Gallagher,5 Blatchford, 48, cited in the
brief, does not apply to these cases, because the jurisdiction in

SHARON v. TUCKER.
Argument for Appellees.

that case was placed upon fraud, the well established ground o.
equitable jurisdiction.
The case of Allen v. Hanks, 136 U. S. 300, was an injunction
on part of a married woman to stop the sale of her land, held
as separate property, under executions for her husband's debts.
The jurisdiction was maintained on the ground that she 'wa&
in possession.
The case of Holland v. (hallen, 110 U. S. 15, cited by qounsel for complainants in their brief, is direct authority for the
position assumed by defendants in these causes.
The relief was given in that case, but the court expressly
puts its decision on a statute of Nebraska (quoted -in the
opinion of Justice Field) which authorized persons whether
in.possession or not to file a bill in equity for the purpose
of quieting title to real estate., Justice Field proceeds to
give the law on the subject prior to and independent of this
statute. To entitle parties to relief independent of this statute, he says, page 19: "To entitle the plaintiff to relief in such
cases the concurrence of three particulars was essential. He
must have been in possession of the property, he must have
been disturbed by repeated actions at law, and he must have
established his right by successive judgments, in his favor."
These three particulars do not concur in these cases in fact, neither one exists. The old and familiar doctrine of
equity has 'not been changed by statute in this district, and
under authority of Holland v. Chalen, the courts of equity
have no jurisdiction over these cases.
Complainants' counsel, in their brief, further assert that no
authority can be found to support the decision of the court
below. Holland v. Challen is authority from this court fir
the doctrine which guided the court below to, its decisicn..
Other authorities are numerous, and the following'cited : OlaA
v. Smiath, 13 Pet. 195.
This was a case from Kentucky, the legislature of which had
passed a law authorizing any person who was in possession
of land, having already title thereto to summon into a court
of chancery any other person holding any claim of title what
soever for the purpose of examining and determining the

540

OCTOBER TERN:VI, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

question of title and to remove the cloud upon the title of complainant. This court held that under the ordinary faculty of
a court of chancery this relief could not be administered, but
it was competent for the legislature of Kentucky to declare
what is a cloud on the title and to authorize a court of chancery to clear up any such cloud. The jurisdiction was maintained expressly on the Kentucky statute.
In Star's v. Starrs, 6 Wall. 409, Mr. Justice Field, in delivering the opinion of the court, which was based upon a statute
of Oregon, says:
"This statute confers a jurisdiction beyond that ordinarily
exercised by courts of equity to afford relief in the quieting of
title and possession of real property. By the ordinary jurisdiction of those courts suits would not lie for that purpose
unless the possession of the plaintiff had been previously disturbed by legal proceedings on the part of the defendant
and the right of the plaintiff had been sustained by successive
judgments in her favor."
In Phe/ps v. Harris,101 'U. S. 370, Mr. Justice Bradley, in
delivering the opinion of the court, again affirms that the
ordinary jurisdiction of courts of equity, not enlarged by statute, does not embrace cases of this kind. See also United
States v. Wilson, 118 U. S. 86.
These authorities sustain the decision of the court below,
and it is believed that no case can be found which lays down
a doctrine in conflict with-it.
I.M JusricE FIELD, after stating the case, delivered the
4pinion of the court.
The title of the complainants is founded upon the adverse
possession of themselves and parties, through whom they
derive their interests, under claim and color of title, for a
period exceeding the statutory time which bars an action for
the recovery of land within the District of Columbia. The
statute of limitation to such cases in force in the District is
that of 21 James I, ch. 16. That statute, passed "for quieting
of men's estates and avoiding of suits," among other things

SHARON'

. TUCKER.

541

Opinion of the Court.

declared that no person or persons should at any time thereafter make any entry into any lands, tenements or hereditaments but within twenty years next after his or their right or
title shall thereafter have first descended or accrued to the
same, and that in default thereof such persons not entering,
and their heirs, should be utterly excluded and debarred from
such entry thereafter to be made, any former law or statute
to the contrary notwithstanding.
Twenty years is, therefore, the period limited for entry
upon any lands within this District after the claimant's title
has accrued. After the lapse of that period there is no right
of entry upon lands against the party in possession, and all
actions to enforce any such alleged right are barred. Complete possession, the character of which is hereafter stated, of
real property in the District for that period, with a claim of
ownership, operates therefore to give the occupant title to the
premises. No one else, with certain exceptions- as infants,
married women, lunatics and persons imprisoned or beyond
the seas, who may bring their action within ten years after
the expiration of their disability-can call his title in question. He can stand on his adverse possession as fully as if he
had always held the undisputed title of record.
The decisions of the courts have determined the character
of the possession which will thus bar the right of the former
owner to recover real property. It must be an open, visible,
continuous and exclusive possession, with a claim of ownership, such as will notify parties seeking information upon the
subject that the premises are not held in subordination to any
title or claim of others, but adversely to all titles and all
claimants. - In the present cases the adverse possession of the
grantors of the complainants sufficient to bar the right of previous owners, is abundantly established within the most strict
definition of that term.
The objection of the defendants to the jurisdiction of a
court of equity in this case arises from confounding it with
a bill of peace and an ordinary bill quia timet, to neither of
which class does it belong, nor is it governed by the same
principles. Bills of peace are of two kinds: First, those

OCTOBER TERMv,

1891.

Opinion 9f the"Court.

which are brought to establish a right claimed by the plaintiff, but controverted, by numerous parties having distinct
interests originating in a common source. A. right of fishery
asserted by one party and controverted by numerous riparian
proprietors on the river, is an instance given by Story where
such a bill will lie. In such cases a court of equity will interfere and bring all the clainants before it in one proceeding to
avoid a multiplicity of suits. A separate action at law with a
single claimant would determine nothing beyond the respective rights of the parties as against each other, and such a contest with each claimant might lead to interminable litigation.
To put at rest the controversy and determine the extent of the
rights of the claimants of distinct interests in a common subject the bill lies, which is thus essentially one for peace.
Second: bills of peace of the other kind lie where the right
of the plaintiff to real property has been unsuccessfully assailed
in different actions, and is liable to further actions of the same
character, and are brought to put an end to the controversy.
"The equity of the plaintiff in such cases arose," as we said in
Ifolland v. Ohcllen, 110 U. S. 15, '19, "from the protracted
litigation for the possession of the property which the action
of ejectment at common law permitted. That action being
founded upon a fictitious demise, between fictitious parties, a
recovery in one action constituted no bar to another similar
action or to any number of such actions. A change in the
date of the alleged demise was sufficient to support a new
action. Thus the party in possession, though successful in every
instance, might be harassed and vexed, if not ruined, by a
litigation constantly renewed. To put an end to such litigation and give repose to the successful party, courts of equity
interfered and closed the controversy. To entitle the plaintiff
to relief in such cases the concurrence of three particulars was
essential: le must have been in possession of the property,
he must have been disturbed in its possession by repeated
actions at law, and he must have established his right by
successive judgments in his favor. Upon these facts appearing, the court would interpose and grant a perpetual injunction to quiet the possession of the plaintiff against any further

SHARON v. TUCKER.
Opinion of the Court.

litigation from the same source. It was only in this way that
adequate relief could be afforded against vexatious litigation
and the irreparable mischief which it entailed. Adams on
Equity,'202; Pomeroy's Equity Jurisprudence, ยง 248; Stark
v. Starrs, 6 Wall. 402; Cu'rtis.v. Sutter, 15 Cal. 259 ; Shepley
v. Pangeley,2 Ware, 242; Devonsher v. .Vewenhan, 2 Schoales
& Lef. 199." It is only where bills of peace of this kind more commonly designated as bills to remove a cloud on title
and quiet the possession to real property - are brought, that
proof of the complainant's actual possession is necessary to
maintain the suit. Frost v. Spitley, 121 T. S. 552, 556.
There is no controversy such as here stated in the present
case. The title of the complainants is not controverted by the
defendants, nor is it assailed by any actions for the possession
of the property, and this is not a suit to put an end to any

litigation of the kind.

It is a suit to establish the title of the

complainants as matter of record, that is, by a judicial determination of its validity, and to enjoin the assertion by the
defendants of a title to the same property from the former
owners, which has been lost by the adverse possession of the
parties through whom the complainants claim. The title by
adverse possession, of course, rests on the recollection of witnesses, and, by a judicial determination of its validity against
any claim under .the former owners, record evidence Will be
substituted in its place. Embarrassments in the use of the
property by the present owners will be thus removed. Actual
possession of the property by the complainants is not essential
to maintain a suit to obtain in this way record evidence of
their title to which they can refer in their efforts to dispose of
the property.
The difference between this case and*an ordinary bill quia
timet is equally marked. A bill quiatimet is generally brought
to prevent future litigation' as to property by removing existing causes of controversy as to its title. There is no controversy here as to the title of the complainants. The adverse
possession of the parties, through whom they claim, was complete, within the most exacting judicial definition of the term.
It is now well settled that by adverse possession for the period

OCTOBER TER.Ar, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

designated by the statute, not only is the remedy of the former
owner gone, but his title has passed to the occupant, so that
the latter can maintain ejectment for the possession against
such former owner should he intrude upon the premises. In
several of the States this doctrine has become a positive rule,
by their statutes of limitations declaring that uninterrupted
possession for the period desigmated to bar an action for the
recovery of land shall, of itself, constitute a complete title.
_Lefflngwell v. TFarren, 2 Black, 599; Campbell v. H[olt, 115
U1. S. 620, 623.
"As a general doctrine," says Angell in his treatise on limitations, "it has -too long been established to be now in the
least degree controverted that what the law deems a perfect
possession, if continued without interruption during the whole
period which is prescribed by the statute for the enforcement
of the right of entry, is evidence of a fee. Independently of
positive or statute law, the possession supposes an acquiescence in all persons claiming an adverse interest; and upon
this acquiescence is founded the presumption of the existence
of some substantial reason, (though perhaps not known,) for
which the claim of an adverse interest was forborne. Not
only every legal presumption, but every consideration of public
policy, requires that'this evidence of right should be taken to
be of very strong, if not of conclusive force."
As the complainants have the legal right to the premises in
controversy, and as no parties deriving title from the former
owners can contest that title With them, there does not seem
to be any just reason why the relief prayed should not be
granted. Such relief is among the' remedies often administered by a court of equity. It is a part of its ordinary jurisdiction to perfect and complete the means by which the right,
estate or interest of parties, that is, their title, may be proved.
or secured, or to remove obstacles which hinder its enjoyment.
(Pomeroy's Equity Jurisprudence, vol. 1, sec. I'l.) The form
of the remedy will vary according to the particular circumstances of each case. "It is absolutely impossible, says
Pomeroy, in his treatise, "to enumerate all the special kinds
.of relief which may be granted, or to place any bounds to the

SHARON

v. TUCKER.

Opinion of the Court.

power of the courts in shaping the relief in accordance with
the circumstances of particular cases. As the nature and incidents of propiietary rights and interests, and of the circumstances attending them, and of the relations arising from
them, are practically unlimited, so are the kinds and forms of
specific relief applicable to these circumstances and relations."
In Blight v. Banks, 6 T. B. M[onroe, 192, 194, a bill was filed
by the complainant to supply the want of certain records or
conveyances, under whichhe claimed title, said to have been
executed and lost. A patent had been issued by the Commonwealth of Virginia for a large amount of property, which, by
various intermediate conveyances, had become vested in the
complainant. These conveyances had not been recorded, and
on that ground the complainant alleged that- his title was in
jeopardy from creditors and innocent purchasers; that with
great difficulty any title could be established at law, because.
the conveyances could not be given in evidence without parol
proof; and that some of the witnesses were dead, and some
of the original conveyances were lost and could not be found.
His prayer was that his title might be rendered complete as
a recorded title by the decree of the chancellor. The first
question made in the case by the defendant was as to the
jurisdiction of the court. It was contended that such omissions in completing a defective title were generally the fault
of the grantees, and that equity would not sustain a bill for
that purpose. But the 0ourt of Appeals of Kentucky replied
that it could not doubt the propriety of the interference of
the chancellor in sdch case. "Equity," said the court, "will
freqiiently interfere to remove difficulties in land titles, where
a party cannot proceed Without difficulty at law; when the
conveyances 6Ye lost, or in the possession of the oppositeparty; or where the yarties are numerous, and the proof hard
of access; and in,rqy such cases it will lighten the burden,
and settle many 'chtroversies, and bring them into a small
scope. And where the title is purely legal, for such and sinilar causes to those we have enumerated, equity has carved out
a branch of jurisdiction, and a class of bills termed in the
books ejectment bills, in which not only the title is made clear,
VOT.. CXTTV-35

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

but the possession decreed also. INo reason is perceived by us
why the present case is not within the spirit of these cases.
The difficulties in an unrecorded title, especially if it is derived through a long chain of conveyances, are familiar to our
courts in this country. The danger to which the title is exposed from two classes of persons, creditors and subsequent
purchasers, is often great and the facilities afforded from a title
which can be read in evidence without other proof than the authentication annexed, are felt by every one who has to bring his
title into court for attack or defence, and the present case will
furnish a good comment on the propriety of the interference
of the chancellor." The court, therefore, decreed the relief
prayed. On a petition for a rehearing it reviewed its former
opinion, the main point of which was the jurisdiction of the
court of equity over the bill, and said:
"It is true that bills to make legal titles which are valid
against all the world, except two descriptions of persons, recorded titles, and thus to protect them from creditors and
innocent purchasers, have not been frequent. But if such
bills cannot be allowed under one state of conveyances, it
must certainly be said that there is a defect of justice in our
country. A court of common law can give no relief in such a
case, and if equity cannot do it then is the case a hopeless one.
If, however, the principles which govern courts of equity are
examined it will be found that there are many circumstances
in this case, independent of defective conveyances, which sustain the jurisdiction," pp. 220, 221. (See also Simmons C'eek
Coal Co. v. -Doran,142 U. S. 417, 449.)
In H7ord v. Baugh, 7 Humph. 576, 578, a bill was filed by
the complainant asking the aid of a court of chancery to set
up a deed of bargain and sale, which was lost or destroyed
before registration, the bargainor having died without executing another. The chancellor below dismissed the bill upon
the ground t)iat the bargainor having once conveyed the land,
had parted with all his interest therein, and that the court
had no jurisdiction of such a case. But the Supreme Court
of Tennessee thought the chancellor erred, saying: "The loss
of the deed is a casualty seriously endangering the complain-

SHARON v. TUCKER.
Opinion of the Court.

ant's title, as he can maintain no action of ejectment without.
it. He then certainly must have a right to ask the aid of a
court of chancery in his case, either by having the legal title
vested in him as against the bargainor and his representatives,
or by having the deed set up and established as in all other
cases of lost deeds. The complainant may have his decree for
either or both of these remedies."
In .Montgomery v. Kerr, 6 Coldwell, 1.99, the same court
sustained a bill and established the complainant's title where
a deed of the property had been lost. The decree was that
the complainant was entitled, by virtue of and under his deed,
to hold the premises in fee simple, and that the defendant
had no right, title or interest therein.
In Bohart v. Chamberlain, 99 Missouri, 622; 631, the proof
showed that a deed of trust which had been executed by defendant to the plaintiff had been subsequently lost without
being recorded. The court on being satisfied of the correctness of the finding of the lower court to this effect, said: "1No
doubt is entertained that a court of equity would have jurisdiction to afford the relief prayed for in the petition. One
of the most common interpositions of equity is in the case of
lost deeds and instruments. A court of equity in case of
the loss of an instrument which affects the title or affords a
security will direct a reconveyance to be made: citing Stokoe
v. Robson, 19 Yes. 385; 1 Story's Equity Jur. sees. 81, 84;
.Lawrence v. Lawrence, 42 N. H. 109; 1 Mad. Ch. 24; Fonblanque's Equity, ch. 1, sec. 3. And the court added that
"under the authorities cited the lower court might have
directed a regxecution of the deed of trust; but, as its powers
were flexible, it could accomplish the same object by a declaratory decree, establishing the existence of the deed in question. 2 Pomeroy's Eq. sec. 827; Garrettv. Lynch, 45 Alabama,
204; 1 Pomeroy's Eq. sees. 11,429."
Many other authorities to the same purport might be cited.
They are only illustrativ6 of the remedies afforded by courts
of equity to remove difficulties in the way of owners of property using ahd enjoying it fully, when, from causes beyond
their control, such use and enjoyment are obstructed. The

, OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

form of relief will always be adapted to the obstacles to be
removed. The flexibility of decrees of a court of equity will
enable it to meet every emergency. Here the embarrassments to the complainants in the use and enjoyment of their
property are obvious and insuperable except by relief through
that court. No existing rights of the defendants will be
impaired by granting what is prayed, and the rights of the
complainants will be placed in a condition to be available.
The same principle which leads a court of .equity upon
proper, proof to establish by its decree the existence of a lost
deed, and thus make it a matter of record, must justify it
upon like proof to declare by its decree the validity of a title
resting in the recollection of witnesses, and thus make the
evidence of the title a matter of record. It is, therefore,
Ordered that the decree of the court below be reversed, and
the cause remanded to that court with, directions to enter a
decree declaring the title of the complainants to the premises described in their complaint, by adverse possession of
the parties through whom they claim, to be complete, and
that the defendants be enjoined from asserting title to the
said premises through their former owner. Each party
to pay his own costs.

STBLLWAGEN v. TUCKER. Appeal from the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia. No. 217. Argued March 15, 16, 1892. Decided April 11, 1892.
MR.JUSTICE FIELD. The facts of this case are similar to those
in No. 216, just decided, and the same principles of law control
its disposition. A similar decree of reversal with directions must
be entered, the form ef the decree to be adapted to the changed
interest caused by the death of one of the parties pending the suit.
Ordered accordingly.

.Mr. C.J. Hillyer and Mr. J. H. Rc'ston for appellants.
.Mr. Eppa Hanton and Mr.Henry Wise Garnett for appellees.

