OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Syllabus.

of the property agreed to be conveyed with the- interest that
accrued thereon ,prior to January 10, 1888. The facts in this
case do not materially differ from those in the above case, and for
the reasons stated in the above opinion the decree in this case must
also be
Reversed.
Mr. George F. Edmunds for appellant.
Mr. Charles C. Bonney for appellee.

-GRAND TRUNK RAILWAY COMPAINY v. IVES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
EASTERN DISTRICT OF
No. 134. Argued January 4, 5, 1892.-

STATES FOR

THE

IICHIGAN.
Decided April 4, 1892.

When, in an action brought against a railroad company in Michigan by the
administrator of a person killed by one of its trains, to recover damages
for the killing, the record in this court fails to show that any exception was taken at the trial, based upon the lack of evidence to show
that he left some one dependent upon him for support, or some one who
had a reasonable expectation of receiving some benefit from him during
his lifetime, as required by the laws of that State, (Howell's Ann. Stat.
§§ 3391, 3392,) the objection is not before this court for consideration.
The terms "ordinary care," ". reasonable prudence," and similar terms
have a relative significance, depending upon the special circumstances
and surroundings of the particular case.
When a given state of facts is such that reasonable men may fairly differ
upon the question as to whether there was negligence or not, the determination of the matter is for the jury; but where the facts are such
that all reasonable men must draw the same conchsicn from them, the
question of negligence is one of law, for the court.
The running of a railroad train within the limits of a city at a greater
speed than is permitted by the city ordinances, is a circumstance from
which negligence may be inferred in case an injury is inflicted upon a
person by the train.
Whether ordinary care or reasonable prudence requires a railroad company to keep a flagman stationed at a crossing that is especially dangerous is a question of fact for a jury; although in some cases it has been
held to be a question of law for the court.
Where the statutes of a State make provisions in regard to flagmen at

GRAND TRUNK RAILWAY CO. v. IVES.
Opinion of the Court.
crossings, this court will follow the construction given to such statutes
by its courts; and, so following the decisions of the courts of the State
of Michigan, it is held that the duty to provide flagmen or gates, or other
adequate warnings or appliances, may exist outside of the statute if the
situation of the crossing reasonably requires it.
The giving of an erroneous instruction which was not prejudicial to the
objecting party is not reversible error.
In an action against a railroad company to 3:ecover for injuries caused by
the negligence of its servants the determination of the fact of whether
the person injured was guilty of contributory negligence is a question
of fact for the jury.
In such case if the proximate and immediate cause of the injury can be
traced to the want of ordinary care and caution in the person injured,
an action for the injury cannot be maintained unless it further appear
that the defendant might, by the exercise of reasonable care and 'prudence, have avoided the consequences of the injured party's negligence.
In determining whether the injured party in such case was guilty of contributory negligence, the jury is bound to consider all the facts and
circumstances bearing upon the question, and not select one particular
fact or circumstance as controlling the case to the exclusion of all
others.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

-. '. Otto .Kirchner for plaintiff in error.
.Xr. Don -21. Dicklnson for defendant in error.
MR.JuSTicE LAmARidelivered

the opinion of the court.

This was an action by Albert Ives, Jr., as administrator of
the estate of Elijah Smith, deceased, against the Grand Trunk
Railway Company of Cahada, a Canadian corporation operating a line of railroad in Michigan, to recover damages for the
alleged wrongful and negligent killing of plaintiff's intestate,

without fault on his own part, by th6 railway company, at a
street crossing in the city of Detroit. It was commenced in
a state court and was afterwards removed into the Federal

court on the ground of diverse citizenship.

The action was

brought under % 3391 and 3392 of Howell's Annotated Stat-

utes of Michigan, and, as stated in the declaration, was for the
benefit of three daughters and one son of the deceased, whose

names were given.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

There was a trial before the court and a jury, resulting in
a verdict and judgment in favor of the plaintiff for $5000,
with interest from the date of the verdict to the time the
judgment was entered.
The plaintiff offered to remit the
interest, but the court refused to allow it to be done. The
defendant then sued out this writ of error.
On the trial, the plaintiff, to sustain the issues on his part,
offered evidence tending to prove the following facts: Elijah
Smith, plaintiff's intestate, at the time of his death in May,
1884, was about seventy-five years of age, and had been residing on a farm, a few miles out of the city of Detroit, for several years, being engaged in grape culture. It was his custom
to make one or more trips to the city every day during that
period. In going to the city he travelled eastwardly on a
much travelled road, known as the "1Holden road," which,
continued into the city, becomes an important and well-known
street running east and west. Within the limits of the city
the street was crossed obliquely, at a grade, by the defendant's
road and two other parallel roads coming up from the southwest, which roads, in the language of the defendant's engineer,
curve "away from a person coming down the Holden road."
At the crossing the Holden road is sixty-five and one-half feet
wide. The defendant's right of way is forty feet wide, and
the right of way of all the parallel railways at that place is
one hundred and sixty feet wide.
For a considerable distance, at least three hundred feet,
along the right side of the road going into the city there were
obstructions to a view of the railroad, consisting of a house
known as the 'KMcLaughlin house," a barn and its attendant
outbuildings, an orchard in full bloom, and, about seventy-six
feet from the defendant's track, another house known as the
"Lawrence house." Then there were some shrub bushes, or,
as described by one witness, some stunted locust trees and a
willow, a short distance from the line of the right of way.
So that, it seems, from all the evidence introduced on this
point, it was hot until a traveller was within fifteen or
twenty feet of the track, and then going up the grade, that he
could get an unobstructed view of the track to the right. One

GRAND TRUNK RAILWAY C0.

v. IVES.

Opinion of the Court.

witness testified that if he was in a buggy, his horse would be
within eight feet of the traek before he could get a good
view of it in both directions.
On the morning of the fatal accident, Mr. Smith and his
wife were driving-down the Holden road into Detroit, in a
buggy with the top raised, and with the side curtains either
raised or removed.. Opposite the Lawrence house they stopped
several minutes, presumably to listen for any trains that might
be passing, and while there a train on one of the other roads
passed by going out of the city. Soon after it had crossed
the roaff, and while the noise caused by it was still quite distinct, they drove on towards their destination. Just as they
had reached the defendant's track, and while apparently
watching the train that had passed, they were struck by one
of the defendant's trains coming from the right at the rate of
at least twenty -

some of the witnesses say forty -

miles an

hour, and were thrown into the air, carried some distance, and
instantly killed. This train was a transfer train between two
junctions, and was not running on any schedule time. The
plaintiff's witnesses agree, substantially, in saying that the
whistle was not blown for this crossing nor was the bell rung,
and that no signal whatever of the approach of the train was
given until it was about to strike the buggy in which Mr.
Smith and his wife were riding. The train ran on some four
hundred feet or more after striking Mr. Smith before it could
be stopped.
It further appeared that an ordinance of the city of Detroit
required railroad trains within its limits to run at a rate not
exceeding six miles an hour; and it likewise appeared that
there was no flag-man or any one stationed at this crossing to
warn travellers of approaching trains.
Most of the witnesses for the defence, consisting, for the
main part, of its employ~s aboard the train at the time of the
accident, testified, substantially, that the ordinary signals of
blowing the whistle and ringing the bell were given before
reaching the crossing, and that, in their opinion, the train was
not moving faster than six miles an hour. It must be stated,
however, that some of the defendant's witnesses the brake-

OCTOBER TERITf, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

man, among others, would not- say that the ordinary signals
were given, nor would they testify that the train was not
moving faster than at the rate prescribed by the city ordinance; and one of its witnesses, in particular, testified that
the train was moving "about 20 miles an hour, perhaps a little
faster."
A witness called by the plaintiff in rebuttal, an engineer of
forty-five years' standing, who was examined as an expert,
testified that if the train ran on after striking Mr. Smith the
distance it was said to have gone before it could be stopped,
it must have been going at the rate of twenty-five or thirty
miles ahn hour; and that if it had been going but six miles an
hour, as claimed by the defendant, it could have been stopped
in the length of the engine, and even without brakes would
not have run more than thirty-five feet, if reversed.
The foregoing embraces the substance of all the evidence
set forth in the bill of exceptions on the question of how the
fatal accident occurred, and with respect to the alleged negligence of the defendant, in the premises, and also the alleged
contributory negligence of Mr. Smith.
At the close of the testimony the defendant submitted in
writing a number of requests for instructions to the jury,
which, if they had been given, would have virtually taken the
case fromn the jury and would have authorized them to bring
in a verdict in its favor. The court refused to give any of
them, in the language requested, but gave some of them in a
modified form and embraced others in the general charge.
The refusal to give the instructions requested was excepted
to, and exceptions were also noted to various portions of the
charge as given. As those exceptions are substantially embodied in the assignment of errors, they will not be further
referred to here, but such of them as we deem material will
be considered in a subsequent part of this opinion.
The first point raised by the defendant and urgently insisted
upon, as being embraced in the assignment of errors, is, that
there is no evidence in this record that Mr. Smith left any one
dependent upon him for support, and that, therefore, no right
of action could be in the plaintiff, as his administrator, under

GRAND TRUNK RAILWAY CO. v. IVES.
Opinion of the Court.

the Michigan statutes, against the defendant, for causing his
death.
Sections 3391 and 3392 of Howell's Annotated Statutes of
Michigan, under which this action was brought, provide as
follows:
. "SEc. 3391. Whenever the death of a person
shall be caused
by wrongful act, neglect or default of any railroad company,
or its agents, and the act, neglect or default is such as would
(if death had not ensued) entitle the party injured to maintain
an action and recover damages in respect thereof ; then, and
in every such case, the railroad corporation which would have
been liable if death had not ensued shall be liable to an action
on the case for damages, notwithstanding the death of the
person so injured, and although the death shall have been
caused under such circumstances as amount in law to felony.
"SEc. 3392. Every such action shall be brought by and in
the names of the personal representatives of such deceased
person, and the amount recovered in any such action shall be
distributed to the persons, and in the proportion provided by
law in relation to the distribution of personal property left by,
persons dying intestate; and in every such action the jury may
give such amount of damages as they shall deem fair and just,
to the persons who may be entitled to such damages when
recovered: Provided,nothing herein contained shall affect any
suit or proceedings heretofore commenced and now pending in
any of the courts of this State."
According to the decisions of the Supreme Court of Michigan
bearing upon the constiuction of these sections, a right of action
will not arise for the negligent killing of a person by a railroad
company, unless the deceased left some one dependent upon
him for support, or sdine one who had a reasonable expectation
of receiving some benefit from him during his lifetime. Chicago c 2&orthwestern R aiway v. Bayfteld, 37 Michigan, 205;
'an Bruntv. Railroad Co., '78Michigan, 530; Cooperv. 1ake
Shore &c. Railway, 66 Michigan, 261.
But it seems to us that no question concerning this phase of
the case can arise here upon this record. The declaration
averred that the action was brought for the benefit of three

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

daughters and one son of the deceased, whose names were
given; and the defendant's plea was merely in the nature of a
plea of the general issue, stating simply that the defendant
"demands a trial of the matters set forth in the plaintiff's
declaration." It is true, that, so far as appears from this record,
the only evidence with respect to the beneficiaries of the suit
named in the declaration was brought out, apparently incidentally, one of plaintiff's witnesses, Mrs. Briscoe, stating that she
was the daughter of the deceased, and another witness stating
that sometimes Mr. Smith's son went to town to attend to the
sale of his farm products.
We should bear in mind, however, that it is not for this
court to say that the entire evidence in the case is set forth in
the bill of exceptions, for that would be to presume a dirbct
violation of a settled rule of practice as regards bills of exceptions, viz., that a bill.of exceptions should contain only so
much of the evidence as may be necessary to explain the bearing of the rulings of the court upon matters of law, in reference
to the questions in dispute between the parties to the case, and
which may relate to exceptions noted at the trial. A bill of
exceptions should not include, nor, as a rule, does it include,
all the evidence given on the trial upon questions about which
there is no controversy, but which it is necessary to introduce
as proof of the plaintiff's right to bring the action, or of other
matters of like nature. If such evidence be admitted without
objection, and no point be made at the trial with respect to
the matter it was intended to prove, we know of no rule of
law which would require that even the substance of it should
be embodied in a bill of exceptions subsequently taken. On
the contrary, to encumber the record with matter not material
to any issue involved has been repeatedly condemned by this
court as useless and improper. Pennociv. Dialogue,12Pet. 1,
15; Johnston v. Jones, 1 Black, 209, 219, 220; Zelle 's Lesee
v. Eckert, 4 How. 289, 297.
But, as the re~ord fails to show that any exception was
taken at the trial based upon the lack of any evidence, in this
particular, we repeat, it is not properly presented to this court for
consideration. If the defendant deemed that the court below

GRA_,D TRUNK RAILWAY 00. v. IVES.
Opinion of the Court.

erroneously made no reference in its charge to the jury to the
lack of any evidence in the record respecting the existence of
any beneficiaries of the suit, it should have called tLat matter
to the attention of the court at that time, and insisted upon
a ruling as to that point. Failing to do that, and failing also
to save any exception on that point, it must' be held to have
waived any right it may have had in that particulaa. The only
exception taken on the trial and embodied in the assignment of
errors that can, by any latitude of construction, be held to refer
to this point is the eighth request for instructions, which was
refused, and which refusal is made the basis of the sixth assigmment of errors. That request is as follows: "The court is
requested to instruct the jury that under the evidence in this
case the plaintiff is not entitled to recover, and their verdict
must be for defendant." But the context and the reason
given by the court for its refusal to give the instruction
clearly show that that request was not aimed at this point,
but related solely to the question of negligence on the part of
the defendant company and the alleged contributory negligence of the party killed. That this request for instructions
meant what the court understood it to mean, and had no
reference whatever to the question of evidence respecting the
existence of the beneficiaries named in the declaration, is
further shown by the fact that the court in its general charge
assumed that such evidence had been introduced, and also by'
the fact that the ninth request of the plaintiff in error for
instructions to the jury likewise proceeded on that assumption.
That request is as follows: "The damages in cases of this
kind are entirely pecuniary in their nature, and the jury must
not award damages beyond the amount the evidence shows the
children would probably have realizedfrom deceased had he
*conivued to live. Nothing can be given for injured feelings
or loss of society."
Furthermore, this assignment of error is too broad and
general, under the 21st rule of this court, to bring up such a
specific objection as it seeks to do. This court should not be
put to ihe labor and trouble of examining the whole of the
evidence to see whether there was enough for the verdict

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

below to have rested upon. But any objection made to the
non-existence of evidence to support the verdict and judgment below should, in the language of the rule, "set out
separately and particularly each error asserted and intended
to be urged."
"Fan Stone v. Stillwell & Bierce Janufaoturing Co., 142 U. S. 128. In our opinion, therefore, this point
raised by the plaintiff in. error is without merit. As to
whether, as a matter of fact, there was evidence respecting
the existence of any beneficiaries to this action, we do not, of
course, express any opinion. In the view above taken of the
matter, it is not necessary to decide that point. The legal
presumption is that there was; and we shall proceed to consider the other assignments of error upon that presumption.
These assignments of error, so far as we can consider them,
properly relate to but two questions: (1) Whether there was
negligence on the part of the railroad company in the running
of the train at the time of the accident.; and (2) Whether,
even if the company was negligent in this particular, the
deceased was guilty of such contributory negligence as will
defeat this action.
With respect to the first question, as here presented, the
court charged the jury, substantially, that negligence on the
part of either the railroad company or the deceased might be
defined to be "the failure to do what reasonable and prudent
persons would ordinarily have done, under the circumstances
of the situation, or doing what reasonable and prudent persons,
under the existing circumstances, would not have done;" that
the law did not require the railroad company to adopt and
have in use, at public crossings, the most highly developed and
best methods of saving the life of travellers on the highway,
but only such as reasonable care and prudence would dictate,
under thfe circumstances of the particular case; and that the
question of negligence, or want of ordinary care and prudence,
was one for the jury to decide. In this connection the court
gave to the jury the following instruction, which, it is claimed,
was erroneous:
"You fix the standard for reasonable, prudent and cautious
men under the circumstances of the case as you find them,

GRAND TRUNK RAILWAY CO. v. IVES.
Opinion of the Court.

according to your judgment and experience of what that class
of men do under these circumstances, and then test. the conduct
involved and try it by that standard; and neither the judge
who tries the case nor any other person can supply you with
the criterion of judgment by any opinion he may have on that
subject."
But it seems to us that the instruction was correct, as an
abstract principle of law, and was also applicable to the facts
brought out at the trial of the case. There is no fixed standard in the law by which a court is enabled to arbitrarily say
in every case what conduct shall be considered reasonable and
prudent, and what shall constitute ordinary care, under any
and all circumstances. The terms "ordinary care," "reasonable prudence," and such like terms, as applied to the conduct
and affairs of men, have a relative significance, and cannot be
arbitrarily defined. What may be deemed ordinary care in
one case, may, under different surroundings and circums.tances,
be gross negligence. The policy of the law has relegated the
determination of such questions to the jury, under proper
instructions from the court. It is their province to note the
special circumstances and surroundings of each particular case,
and then say whether the conduct of the parties in that case
was such as would be expected of reasonable, prudent men,
under a similar state of affairs. When a given state of facts
is such that reasonable men may fairly differ upon the question
as to whether there was negligence or not, the determination
of the natter is for the jury. It is only where the facts are
such that all reasonable men must. draw the same conclusion'
from them, that the question of negligence is ever considered
as oie of law for the court. Railroad Co. v. Pollard, 22
Wall. 341; Delaware c&c. Rai'oad v. Converse, 139 U. S.
469; Thompson v. Flint &o.Railway, 57 Michigan, 300; Iake
Shore &c. Railway v. .Mill.r, 25 Michigan, .214; Riailway v.
Van Steinberg, 17. Michigan, 99, 1.22; Gayno' v. Old Colony
&.2ewport Railway, 100 Mass. 208, 212; larietta &c. Railroad Co. v. Picksley, 24 Ohio.St. 654; PennsylvaniaRailroad
v. Ogier, gfPenn. St. 60; Robinson v. Cone, 22 Vermont, 213;
famison v. San Jose &c. Ragroa'd, 55 California, 593; RedVOL. cxLiv-27

OCTOBER TERIf, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

field on Railways (5th ed.)§ 133, 112; 16 Am. & Eng. Enc.
Law, Tit. "Negligence," 402, and authorities cited in note 2.
We do not think, therefore, that this instruction was erroneous
in any particular.
It is further urged that the court erred in giving to the
jury the following instruction:
"If you find from the evidence in this case that the railroad train which killed Elijah Smith was moving at a rate
of speed forbidden by the city ordinances, . . . the law
authorizes you to infer negligence on the part of the railroad
company as one of the facts established by the proof."
It is said that no evidence was introduced with respect to
an ordinance of the city regulating the speed of railway
trains. Counsel, in this matter, labor under a misapprehension. The bill of exceptions states that "the ordinance of
the city of Detroit prohibiting the running of railroad trains,
within the limits of the city, at a greater rate of speed
than six miles per hour," was admitted in evidence, over
the defendant's objections. And as there was a great deal
of evidence introduced on behalf of the plaintiff that the
train which killed Mr. Smith was running at a much mnore
rapid rate than the ordinance permitted, the instruction
quoted was applicable, and, under the authorities, was as
favorable to the defendant as it had the right to demand.
Indeed, it has been held in many cases that the running of
railroad trains within the limits of a city at a rate of speed
greater than is allowed by an ordinance of such city is negligence, per se. Sehlereth v. Missouri Pao. Railway, 96 Missouri, 509; Viginid &c. Railway v. White, 84 Virginia, 498.
But, perhaps, the better and more generally accepted rule is
that such an act on the part of the railroad company is
always to be considered by the jury as at least a circumstance
from which negligence may be inferred in determining
whether the company was or was not guilty of negligence.
Union Pao. Railway v. Rassmussen, 95 Nebraska, 810;
Blanchard v. -Lake hore &o. Railway, 126 Illinois, 416;
f eloy v. Ohicago &o. Railway, 77 Iowa, 743; Savannah &o.
Ralway v. Flainagan,82 Georgia, 519; Peyton v. Txa.9 &

GRAND TRUNK RAILWAY CO. v. "IVES.
Opinion of the Court.

Pa. Railway, 41 La. Ann. 861. At any rate, the charge of
the court, in this particular, was not unfavorable to the defendant, under the law. Hfaas v. Chicago &c. Railroad, 41
Wisconsin, 44; YFicksburg &c. Railroad v. -McGowan, 62
Mississippi, 682; Philadelphia &c. Railroad v. Stebling, 62
Maryland, 504; .AfcGrath v.-NewYork &c.Railroad,63 N. Y.
522; Houston &c. Railroad v.Terry,42 Texas, 451; Bowman
v. Chicago &o. Railroad, 85 Missouri, 533; Crowley v. BvrZingtom &d. Railroad, 65 Iowa, 658; Eeim . Union R. &a T..
Co., 90 Missouri, 314; Ellis v..ake Shore &c. Railroad,138
Penn. St. 506; 4 Am. & Eng. Enc. Law, Tit. "Grossings,"
934, and authorities cited in notes 8 and 10.
One of the chief assignments of error, and, perhaps, the one
most strongly relied on to obtain a reversal of the judgment be-.
low,is, that the court erred in giving the following instructioni:
"So if youflind that because of the special circumstances
existing in this case, such as that this was a crossing in the
city much used and necessarily frequently presenting a point
of danger, where several tracks run side by side, and there is
consequent noise and confusion and increased danger; that
owing to the near situation of houses, barns, fences, trees,
"bushes or other natural obstructions which afforded less than
ordinary opportunity for observation of an approaching train,
and other like circumstances of a special nature, it was reasdnable that the railroad company should provide special safeguards to persons using the crossing ina prudent and cautious
manner, the law duthorizes you to infer Iiegligence on its part
for any failure to adopt such safeguards as would have given
warning, although you have a statute in Michigan which
undertakes by its provisions to secure such safeguards in the
way the statute points out. The duty may exist outside the
statute to provide flagmen or gates or other adequate warnings or appliances, if the situation of the crossing reasonably
requires that- and of this you are to 'judge-and itdepends
upon the general rule that the company must use its privilege
of crossing the streets on its surface grade with due and reasonable care for the rights of other persons using the highway
with proper care and caution on their part.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion. of the Court.

"So if you find that the train hands kept no proper lookout
and managed the train without due caution and reasonable
care, you will be authorized to infer negligence on the part of
the company as one of the facts established in the case."
That this instruction is in harmony with the general rule of
law obtaining in most of the States, and at common law, we
think there can be no doubt. The general rule is well stated
in Central Passenger Ry. Co. v. Kuhn, 86 Kentucky, 578, 589,
as follows: "The doctrine with reference to injuries to those
crossing the track of a railway, where the right to cross
exists, is that the company must use such reasonable care and
precaution as ordinary prudence would indicate. This vigilance and care must be greater at crossings in a .populous
town or city than at ordinary crossings in the country; so
what is reasonable care and prudence must depend on the
facts of each case. In a crossing within a city, or where the
travel is great, reasonable care would require a flagman constantly at the crossing,-or gates or bars, so as to prevent injury;
but such care would not be required at a crossing in the coun
try, where but few persons passed each day. The usual signal,
such as ringing the bell and blowing the whistle, would be
sufficient;" citing Thompson on Negligence, 417; -Louisville
&c. Railroadv. Goetz, 79 Kentucky, 442. And it was accordingly held in that case that a railroad company which had
failed to provide a flagman or gates, during the night time
when many trains were passing, at a crossing in a thickly populated portion of the city of Louisville, buildings being situated
near the track at that point, was guilty of "negligence of the
most flagrant character." See also, to the same effect, St.
Louis &c.Railroadv. _Dunn, 78 Illinois, 197; Bentleyv. Georgia
Pac. Railway, 86 Alabama, 484; Western Atlantic Railroad
v. Young, 81 Georgia, 397; Yr'oy v. 'ape Fear &e. Railroad,
99 N. C. 298; Bolinger v. St. Paul&e.Railroad, 36 Minnesota,
418.
It is also held, in many of the States, (in. fact, the rule is
well nigh, if not quite, universal,) that a railroad company,
under certain circumstances, will not be held free from negligence, even though it may have complied literally with the

GRAND TRUNK RAILWAY CO. v. IVES.
Opinion of the Court.

terms of a statute prescribing certain signals to be given, and
other precautions to be taken by it, for the safety of the travelling public at crossings. Thus in Chicago &c. Railroadv. Perkins, 125 Illinois, 127, it was held that the fact that a statufe
provides certain precautions will not relieve a railway company from adopting such other measures as public safety and
common prudence dictate.. And in Thompson v. -Htew York
&c. Railroad,110 N. Y. 636, it was held that the giving of
signals required by law upon a railway train approaching a
street crossing does not, under all circumstances, render the
railway company free from negligence, especially -here the
evidence tends to show that the train was being run at an
undue and highly dangerous rate of speed through a city or
village. See also Louisville &c. 'Railway v. Commonwealth,
13 Busb, 388; Wfeber v. Nf.
. Central Railroad,58 N. Y. 451.
The reason for such rulings is foiind in the principle of the
common law that every one must so conduct himself and use
his own property as that, under ordinary circumstances, he
will not injure another, in any way. As a general rule, it
may be said that whether ordinary care or reasonable
prudence requires a railroad company to keep a flagman
stationed. at a crossing that is especially dangerous, is a
question of fact for a jury to determine, under all the circumstances of the case, and that the omission to station a
flagman at a dangerous crossing may be taken into account as
evidence of negligence;, although. in some cases it has been
held that it is a question of law for the court. It seems, however, that before a jury will be warranted in saying, in the
absence of. any statutory direction to that effect, that a railroad company should keep a flagman or gates at a crossing, it
must be first shown that such crossing is more than ordinarily
hazardous: as, for instance, that it is in a thickly popvlated
portion of a town or city; or, that the view of the track is
obstructed either by the company itself or by other objects
proper in themselves; or, that the crossing is a much travelled
one and the noise of approaching trains is rendered indistinct
and the ordinary signals difficult to be heard -by reason of
bustle and confusion incident to railway or other business; or,

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.

Opinion of the Court.

by reason of some such like cause: and that a jury would not
be warranted in saying that a railroad company should main-

tain those extra precautions at ordinary crossings in the
country. The following cases are illustrative of various
phases of the rules we have just stated: Eaton v. FitchburRailroad,129 Mass. 364; Bailey v. .5ew Raven Railroad,
107 Mass. 496; Pennsylvania Railroad v. ]fTatthews, 36 N. J.
Law, 531 ; PennsylvaniaRailroad.v.1-illips, 88 Penn. St. 405 ;
Kansas Pac.Railroad v. Richardson,25 Kansas; 391 ; State v.
Philade~phia&c. Railroad,47 Maryland, 76; Welech v. Hannibal &c. Railroad,72 Missouri, 451 ; Frick v. St. Zouis &c.
Railroad,75 Missouri, 595; Pittsburgh&c. Railway v. Yundt,
78 Indiana, 373; Hart v. Chicago &c. Railway, 56 Iowa, 166;
Kiney v. Crocker, 18 Wisconsin, "74.
But it is insisted that these rules are none of them applicable to this case, because the whole subject of signals and
flagmen, gates, etc., at crossings in Michigan is regulated by
statute. The claim is put forth that, under the statute of
Michigan, (3 How. Stat. § 3301,) an officer of the State, known
as the railroad commissioner, is charged with the duty of
determining the necessity of a flagman at any and all crossings
in the State, and that, unless an order had been made by him
requiring a railroad company to station a flagman at any particular crossing, the failure on the part of the company to
provide such flagmnen could not even be considered as evidence
of negligence; and that in this case no such order by the
commissioner is shown to have been made. Battishill v.
Jumpmhreys, 64 Michigan, 494; Guggenheim v. Lae Shore &c.
Railway, 66 Michigan, 150; and Freeman v. Railway
Company, 74 Michigan, 86, are relied on as sustaining this
contention.
If the construction of this statute by the Michigan courts
be as claimed by the defendant, of course this court would
feel . constrained to adopt the same construction, even if we
thought it in conflict with fundamental principles of the law
of negligence fo which we have referred in a preceding part
of this opinion, obtaining in other States. M~eister v: ]Moore,
96 U. S. 76; Bowditch .v. Boston, 101 U. S. 16; Flash v.

GRAND TRUNKI RAILWAY CO. v. IVES..
Opinion of the Court.

Conn, 109 U. S. 371; Bucher v. ChesAhre Railroad Co., 125
U. S. 555; .Detoit v. Osborne, 135 U. S. 492.

But do the Michigan cases cited sustain the defendant's
contention ? We think not; but rather that they support the
rule laid down by the court below in the charge excepted to.
In Battishill v. Humphreys, the court below had refused to
instruct the jury, upon a request by the plaintiff in error, that
"the railroad law of this State (art. 4, § 3) lays upon the railroad comaissioner of the State the duty of determining the
necdssity of edtablishing a flagman upon any particular street
crossing of a railway; and upon the testimony and under the
pleadings in this case, the absence of a flagman at Summit
avenue is no evidence of any negligence upon the part of the
receivers."
Such refusal having been assigned as error, the Supreme
Court of the State held that the instruction should have been
given, and accordingly reversed the judgment below. In the
opinion the court said:
"I think the second request of the defendants should have
been given. No reference was made to this matter in the
charge of the court; and it may well be considered, when a
request is specifically made, and it is refused, that the jury
will take such refusal as a liberty to infer that the request is
wrong in law, unless some explanation is made by the court
of the reasons for such refusal to rebut such natural inference.
. . . Evidence of this nature was introduced, and the request which ought to have been given denied, and we cannot
say it did not have some influence upon the jury in determining
the question of the negligence of the company."
If this decision stood alone there would be much force in
the contention of the defendant in this case; but the other
decisions referred -to have explained it, and apparently qualified the broad doctrine laid down in it, bringing the rule in
Michigan in harmony with the generally accepted rule obtaining elsewhere.
Thus in Ghtggenheim v. Lake Shore 1?ilway, although it
was stated in the opinion that"" the railroad company is not
compelled to keep a watchian or flagman at every street or

OCTOBER TER,

1891.

Opinion of the Court.

road-crossing where a jury, upon a trial like this, might think
it necessary to have one stationed;" and that "this matter is
regulated under the statutes of our State by the railroad commissioner;" yet it was held that when the company itself so
obstructs its track that its trains cannot be seen by travellers
approaching a crossing, or so that the ordinary signals required
by statute will not be sufficient to warn travellers of the approach of trains, "some additional warning must be given, and
there are cases where a flagman would be necessary to acquit
the company of negligence." And it was further 'held that
the trial court was right in instructing the jury that it was the
duty of the company to give to the traveller on the highway
due and timely warning of the coming of its trains, and the
approaching danger "either by bell or whistle, or both, or by
some other means, and in such a way as to give him an opportunity, by the exercise of due diligence and care,-to meet and
guard himself. from danger;" thus showing that a duty on the
part of the railway company to provide against accidents at
crossings may and does exist outside of the statute.
But the case of Feeman v. Railway Company, which, so
*far as we have examined, is the latest adjudication of the
Supreme Court of Michigan on the subject, contains the most
thorough discussion of the general question of any of those
referred to by the defendant; and, so far from sustaining its
contention, is directly opposed to it and in line with the instruction given by the court below in this case. In that case
one of the questions considered by the court was, whether it
was negligence on the part of the railway in not providing
a flagman at the crossing of Genesee street in the city of Marquette, the railroad commissioner not having required it to stationone there. The facts in relation to the hazardous nature
of the crossing are referred to particularly in the opinion of
the court from which we quote. In considering the question
the court went very fully into the merits of it, in all its bearings, and said: "The contention of the defendant, is that it
was not negligence. It is claimed that under the statutes of
this State the duty of determining where flagmen shall be
stationed devolves upon the railroad commissioner; and that in

GRAND TRUNK RAILWAY CO. V. IVES.
Opiniofi of the Court.

order to hold defendant liable for such negligence in this case,'
it should have appeared in proof that the railroad commissioner had ordered a flagman to be stationed at this crossing,
and that his orders were not obeyed; or that the crossing was
such an exceptionally dangerous one that a common law duty
was imposed, on the defendant to keep a flagman at that
point; and that no showing of this kind was made."
Replying to this contention, the court said: "We think the
judge. below ruled correctly on this point and in accordance
with our previous decisions. The jury were instructed, substantialiy, that it is not the law of this State that at every road
or street crossing in a village or city a railroad company is
bound to place a flagman. The law puts upon the railroad
commissioner the duty of determining the necessity of establishing a flagman upon any particular street crossing of a railroad, and the absence of a flagman at Genesee street crossing,
where the accident occurred, is of itself no evidence of negligence upon the part of the defendant. And the, plaintiff must
show that the circumstances of. the crossing, are such that
common prudence would dictate that the railroad company
should place a flagman there, or his equivalent. That bef6oe
the jury could find this it must be made to appear to them:i
the danger at the crossing was altogether exceptional -tmar
there was something about the case rendering ordinary carr
on the part of the witness Grant, (the driver of the carnage
which was run over and broken up at the crossing,) an insufficient protection against injury, and therefore made the
assumption of the burden of a flagman on the part of the railroad company a mattEr of common duty for the safety of
people crossing. '.Y6u have, as I said before, been at this crossing. You have seen the situation.. You have seen its relation to travel and to the city ; and it is for you to determine,
if you reach that point, under all .the circumstances of the case,
whether or not it was negligence, under the instructions I have
given you and the evidence, not-to have a flagman there."'
The Supreme Court then -wenton to'say: "If any fault can
be found with-this charge, it Was too favorable to the defendant, in that it connected the necessity of keeping a flagman

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

at the crossing, with the use of ordinary care on the part of
Grant. , The duty of retaining a flagman at this point did not
depend on the question whether Grant, "inthis particular
instance, could by common prudence .have avoided this collision or not. It depended rather upon the situation of the
crossing, its relation to the travel upon the street generally,
and the facilities afforded, not only the travellers on the street,
but the trainmen on the cars, to avoid collisions and accidents
of this kind, without a flagman to give warning of approaching trains.
"I think the jury were warranted in finding it to be negligence in the defendant in not providing a watchman at this
point. It seems that to the south from Genesee street there
was a steep up-grade, so that a train of loaded cars must, in
order to ascend the same, cross the street at a higher rate of
speed than would, considering the situation of the crossing,
be prudent to the safety of passers on the street, without
warning of the train's approach. A train coming from the
north could not be seen at all by those travelling on the street
in the direction Grant was driving, until the traveller was
within 40 feet of the track, and the train within from 150 to
175 feet of the centre of the street. And the engineer on the
train, being lower down in his cab than a man in a buggy,
could not get his eye into Genesee street west of the track, as
was the fact in this case, until the locomotive was within 60
or 75 feet from the crossing, and then his vision would only
extend 40 or 50 feet west of the track on the street. Under
such circumstances, a train ought to run over this crossing so
that it could be stopped at once, or a flagman ought to be stationed where he could give warning of its approach. When
an engineer, at a distance beyond 75 feet from the crossing of
a street in a city like Marquette, cannot see into the street
except the straight line thereof where the track crosses, and
the traveller cannot see even the top of the locomotive until
he gets within 40 feet of the track, something more than
ordinary pains to prevent accidents is incumbent both on the
railroad company and also on the traveller, if such traveller is
acquainted with the situation.

GRAND TRUNK RAILWAY 00. 'v. IVES.
Opinion of the Court.

"In Battishill v. Humyhreys, we held, under the pleadings
and testimony in the case, that the absence of a flagman at
Summit avenue crossing in Detroit could not be considered
negligence in the railroad company, as the railroad commissioner had not determined that it was necessary to maintain
one there. But nothing was said or -intended to be said, in
that opinion, that there could be no negligence, in any case, in
not maintaininga flagman at a street crossingunless such cornmissioner had ordered one to be stationed there. In Guggenheim, v. E. S. & X. 8. By. Co. the law in this respect is laid
down substaitially as the Circuit Judge in this case instructed
the jury."
We have quoted extensively from the opinion in the case
last referred to because it seems to us a complete refutation of
the contention of the defendant herein, and states the law, on
this point, substantially as the court below.did in its charge
to the jury in this case, and because, also, the facts and
circumstances relative to the railroad crossing there were so
very similar to those in this case, that it makes it a very strong
authority in support of the judgment below. The underlying
-principle in all cases of this kind which requires a railroad
company not only to comply with all statutory requirements
in the matter of signals, flagmen and other warnings of danger at public crossings, but many'times to do much more
than is required by positiv'e enactment, is, that. neither the'
legislature nor railroad commissioners 6an arbitrarily determine in advance what shall constitute ordinary care .or reasonable prudence in a-railroad company, at a crossing, in every
particular case which may afterwards arise. For, as already
stated, each case must stand upon its own merits and be decided
upon its own facts and circumstances; and these are the features which make the qpestion of negligence primaily one for
the jury to determine, under proper instructions from the court.
We think, therefore, that, in that portion of the charge which
we have been discussing, the court -beloW committed no error
to the prejudice of the defendant.
But it is claimed that the last paragraph of that portion of
the charge last above quoted, referring to the question whether

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

or not the trainmen kept a proper lookout and managed the
train in a prudent and cautious manner, was erroneous, because,
so it is claimed, "there was no evidence that the train hands
kept no proper lookout, etc." This contention is also without
merit. There was evidence that the ordinary signals of blowing the whistle and ringing the bell at the crossing were not
given, and that the train was running at -a more rapid rate
than was permitted by the city ordinance. If the jury believed
that evidence they must necessarily have found that the trainmen did not keep a proper lookout, and did not manage the
.train in a prudent and careful manner. The instruction complained of! was certainly not prejudicial to the defendant in
this particular, since it referred to matters concerning which
evidence had been admitted, and was correct on principle.
The most that can be said against it is that the substance of it
had perhaps been given in another portion of the charge, and
the court below need not have giveii it; but the giving it in
different language, while not necessary, and while also correct
practice might require -thatit be not given, was not reversible
error. So far, then, as the instructions of the court below,
upon the first question, as above, arranged, are concerned, we
conclude there was no error prejudicial to the defendant.
And this leads to a consideration of the question of the alleged
contributory negligence on0 the part of the deceased.
It is earnestly insisted that, although the. defendant may
have been guilty of negligence in the managenent of: its
train which caused the accident, yet the evidence -in the case
,given by the plaintiff's own witnesses, shows that the deceased
himself was so negligent in the premises that but for such
coiitributory negligence on his part the accident would not
have happend.; and it is, therefore, contended that th4 court
below should, as matter -of law, have so determined, and it
not having done so, this court.should so deolire, and reverse
its judgment. To this argument several answers might be
given, but the main reason why it is unsound is this: As the
question of negligence on the part of the defendant was one
of foct -for the jury to determine, under all the, circumstances
of the case, and under proper instructions from the court, so

GRAND TRUNK RAILWAY CO. v. IVES.
Opinion of the Court.

also the question of whether there was negligenceb in the
deceased which was the proximate cause of the injury, was

likewise a question of fact for the jury to determine, under
like rules. The determination of what was such contributory
negligence on the part of the deceased as would defeat this
action, or, perhaps, more accurately speaking, the question of
whether the deceased, at the time of the fatal accident, was,
under all the circumstances of the case, in the exercise of such,
due care and diligence as would be expected of a reasonably
prudent and careful person, under gimilar circumstances, was
no more a question of law for the court than was the question
of negligence on the part of the defendant. There isno more
of an absolute standard of ordinary care and diligence in the
one instance than in the other. This rule is sustained by the
Michigan authorities, (Mlyn.ning v. Detroit &c. Railroad,64
Michigan, 93; Underkill v. Chieago &o. Railway, 81 Michigan, 43; -Baker v. Railroad Co., 68. Michigan, 90 ;' Engel v.
Smith, 82 Michigan, 1;) and its correctness is apparent from
an .examination and analysis of the generally accepted definitions of contributory negligence, as laid down by the courts

and by text-writers.

Without going into a discussion of these

definitions, or even-attempting to collate them, it will be sufficient for present purposes to say that the generally accepted
and most reasonable rule of law'applicable to actions in which
the defence is contributory negligen6e may be thus stated:
Although the defendant's negligence may have been the primary cause of the injury complained of, yet'an action for-such
injury cannot be maintained if the proximate and -immediate
cause of the injury can-be traced to the want of ordinary care
and caution in the person injured; subject to this qualification, which has grown up in recent yea#, (having been first
enunciated in Davies v. ffann,, 10 M. & W. 546,) that the
contributory negligence of the party injured will not defeat
the action if it be shown that the defendant might, by the
exercise of reasonable care and prudence, have avoided the
consequences of the injured party's negligence.
nland &
Seaboard',Coasting Co. v. Tolson, 139 IT. S. 551, 558, and cases
- ite _ Donoue v. St. Louis &c. Railroad,91 Missouri, 353;

OCTOBER TERiMf, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

Fcksbzurg &o. Railroadv. Patton, 31 Mississippi, 156; Deans
v. W'ilington &o. Railroad, 107 N. C. 686.; 2 Thompson on
Negligence, 1157; Cooley on Torts, (1si Ed.,) 675; 4 Am. &
Eng. Enc. Law, Tit. "Contributory Negligence," 30, and authorities cited in note 1.
With respect to the question of the alleged contributory
negligence of the deceased, the court charged the jury as
follows:
"Turning now to the conduct of Smith, and subjecting that
to the same test of reasonable prudence and cautious conduct
of a person inhis situation, you will understand that, no matter how negligently the company ran this train or how unreasonably they neglected to provide sufficient safeguards
at the crossing, if he brought his death upon himself by his
own negligence, his administrator is not entitled to a verdict
in this suit.
"So if you find that he was familiar with this crossing and
its dangers, one and all of them; that he frequently used it
and knew how to act in using it to protect himself; and that
under the special circumstances which you find he failed to
act as a prudent and cautious man should have acted from
beginning to end, or that he omitted some precaution that a
prudent man ought to have taken, :whereby he lost his life,
the plaintiff cannot recover. He should use all his faculties
of seeing and hearing; he should approach cautiously and
carefully; should look and listen and do everything that a
reasonably prudent man would do before he attempted to
make the crossing. Scrutinize his actings and doings under
the light of the then situation; the nature and character of
the crossing; the fact of the difficulty of observation; the
time of day and the probability of danger from passing trains;
the fact that there were other railroads side by side; that
another train on one of these was actually approaching and
passing; the noise and confusion; possibly the noise and confusion of signals; and every fact and circumstance bearing on
the case to influence his conduct then and there, under those
circumstances and not any otlher circumstances; and say
upon your fair and fmpartial judgment whether he acted as

GRAND TRUNIK RAILWAY 00. v. IVES.
Opinion of the Court.

a reasonable and prudent man should have acted and with
the. due care and caution demanded by the exigencies of the
occasion.
"If he did so act, and the railroad company was negligent,
his administrator is entitled to your verdict. If he did not so
act, the railroad company is entitled to your verdict, whether
it was negligent or not. If it was not negligent, it is entitled
to your verdict, no matter how Smith acted."
These instructions are so full and .complete, and are in such
-entire accord with the rules of law applicable to cases of this
character, that no fault whatever can be found with them.
They embody, substantially, the entire law of the 'case, on
the questions under consideration, and were applicable to
,every feature of it. Indeed, if they are open to any criticism
at all it is that they were more favorable to the defendant
than it had the right to demand, under the rules above stated,
since they enabled the defendant to be relieved from any
liability in the case, if the deceased had ben guilty of contributory negligence, even though it might, by the exercise of
ordinary care and prudence, have averted the results of such
negligence. Mr. Pierce, in his work on railroads, p. 343,
after a review of the authorities on the subject, lays down,
substantially, the same general rule as to the care required of
travellers at railway crossings, - in the following terms: "A
traveller upon a highway, when approaching a railroad crossing, ought to make a vigilant use of his senses of sight and
hearing, in order to avoid a collision. This precaution is dictated by common prudence. He' should listen for signals,
and look in the different directions from which a train may
come. If by neglect of this duty he suffers injury from a
passing train, he cannot recover of the company, although it
may itself be chargeable with negligence, or have failed to
give the signals required by statute, or be running at the
time at a speed exceeding the legal rate." See also, generally,
upon this question, 4 Am. & Eng. Enc. Law, 68-48, and
authorities cited in the notes.
The recent case of Sullivan v. Ae~o Yo"or7 w. Railroad
Co., from Massachusetts, which, in advance of the officidl

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the- Court.

reports, is published in 28 N. E. Rep. 911, is so similar to the
one at bar on this question that it deserves more than a passing notice. The substance of the case is stated in the syllabus
by the reporter as follows:
"'Plaintiff, a woman about 65 years of age, of ordinary
intelligence, and possessed of good. sight and hearing, was
injured at a railroad crossing. The railroad had been raised
several feet higher than the sidewalk, and the work of grading was still unfinished, and the crossing in a broken condition.
There were three tracks, and a train was approaching on the
middle one. The view was obstructed somewhat with buildings, but dfter reaching the first track it was clear. The evidence showed that the plaintiff was familiar with the passing
of trains; that she did not look before going upon the track;
and that, if shie had looked, she could have seen the train a
quarter of *a mile. When the whistle sounded she looked
directly at the trirn, and hurried to get across. Plaintiff testified that she looked before going upon the track, but did not
see the train or hear the whistle; that the only warning she
had was the noise of its approach, after she was on the first
tradk; and that she did not then look to see where it was, or
on which track it was coming, but started to cross as fast as
possible, and in so doing stumbled and fell between the rails.
The signals required by the statutes were not given: Held,
that it did not appear as matter of law that plaintiff was
guilty of gross or wilful negligence, and that it was prbper
to submit the question to the jury."
See also Evans v. Lake Shore &'.fXich. South. Railway,
(Mich.) 50 N. W. Rep. 386; Ellis v. L-ake Shore & .Mich.
South. .ailway, 138 Penfi. St. 506; Brown v. Tex. & Pao.
Railway, 42 La. Ann. 350; Heddles v. Chicago &c. Railway,
77 Wisconsin, 228; Parsons v. N2w York &c. Railroad,113
N. Y. 355; Cooper v. Lake Shore & .Mich. South. Railway, 66
Michigan, 261.
Nothing was said by this court in Railroad Company v.
Houston, 95 IT. S. 697, or in Schofield v. Chicago & St. Paul
Railway, 114 U. S. 615, which are relied upon by the defendant,
that in anywise conflicts with the instructions of. the court

GRAND TRUNK' RAILWAY CO. v. IVES.
Opinion of the Court.

below in this case, or lays down any different doctrine with
respect to contributory negligence. Delaware Railroad v.
Converse, 139 U. S. 469. Nor do the Michigan authorities,
which are relied upon, when read in the light of theparticular
facts and circumstances of each separate case, enunciate a different doctrine; but, so far as applicable, they tend to sustain
the instructions objected to.
It is also insisted that the court erred in refusing the following request of'the defendant for instructions:
"If you find that the deceased might have stopped at a
point fifteen or eighteen feet fron the railroad crossing, and
there had an unobstructed view of defendant's track either
way; that he failed so to stop; that instead the deceased
drove upon the defendant's track, watching the Bay City
train, that had already passed, and with his back turned in
the direction of the approaching train, the deceased was guilty
of contributing to the injury, and your verdict must 'be for the
defendant, although you are also satisfied that the defendant
was guilty of negligence in the running of the train in the
particulars mentioned in the declaration."
The reason given by the court for refusng this request was
that "it is too much upon the weight of the evidence and confines the jury to the particular circumstance narrated without
notice of others that they may think important." This reason
is a sound one. In determining whether the deceased;'was
guilty of contritbitory negligence the jury were bound to~consider all the facts and circumstances bearing upon that question,
and not select one particular prominent fact or circumstance as
conitrolling the case to the exclusion of all the others. Cooper v2
. ke Shore & fich. South. Railway Co., sulpra; Baltimoreetc.
Railroadv. Rane, 69 Maryland, 11. Moreover, the substance
of the request, so far as it was correct, had already been given,
in general terms, by the court in that part of the charge referring to the degree of cate and caution required of 'the
deceased in approaching the railroad crossing, in order to free
him from the charge of contributory negligence; and the
refusal of the court to give it again, in different language,
was not error. Erie Railroad Co. v. Winter, 143 U. S. 60, 1b.
VOL. cxuv-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

There are no other questions in the case that call for. special
consideration. We have endeavored to consider and pass upon
all of the material ones that have been discussed by counsel
both in their brief and in oral argument at the bar. We do
not think that it has been shown that any error was committed
in the trial below which was prejudicial to the rights of the
defendant.
Judgment affirmed.

KEATOR LUMBER COMPANY v. THOMPSON.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 242. Argued and submitted March 25, 1892. -Decided April 4, 1892.
An objection that replications were not filed to the defendant's pleas when
the trial commenced, nor before judgment, with leave of court, comes
too late if made after entry of judgment.When a defendant is compelled to proceed with a trial in Illinois in a case
in which the issues are not made up by the filing of replications to the
pleas, and makes no objection on that ground, the failure to do so is
equivalent to consenting that the trial may proceed.
In Illinois the filing by the plaintiff under the statute of that State (2 Starr
& Curtis' Stats. 1801) of an affidavit "showing the nature of his demand
and the amount due him from the defendant" does not prevent the recovery of a larger sum if a larger sum is claimed by the pleadings and
shown to be due by the evidence.

THE case was stated by the court as follows:
Benjamin F. Thompson and Homer Root brought this action
of assumpsit against the J. S. Keator Lumber Company for a balance alleged to be due them for cutting and hauling saw-logs,
etc. The two main grounds .of dispute were: (1) Whether the
pzice for the work was limited by the contract in question to
$3 per thousand feet of saw-logs cut and delivered into the
boom limits of the Black River, Wisconsin, without extra
charge, or whether the plaintiffs, in addition to the above
price, were entitled to be paid for the driving or delivery of
the logs into said boom limits; (2) whether the plaintiffs had

