OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

signed as error that the court held that he was so estopped.
The ground upon which' the judgment rested was broad
enough to sustain it without deciding any Federal question,
if there were any in the case. As to the admission of the
award and of the, receipt in evidence, the rulings involved the
application either of the general or the local law of evidence,
and as such furnish no ground for our interposition. Hfew
Orleans v. Nfew Orleans Water Works Co., 142 U. S. 79;
Hammond v. Johnston, 142 U. S. 73.
_Dismissed.
The writ of error is

COLUMBIA AND PUGET SOUND RAILROAD
COMPANY v. HAWTHORNE.
ERROR

TO THE SUPREME COURT

OF THE TERRITORY OF

WASHINGTON.
240.

Argued March 24, 1892. -Decided

April 4, 1892.

The refusal to direct a'verdict for the defendant at the close of the plaintiffs evidence, and when the defendant has not rested his case, cannot
be assigned for error.
In an action for injuries caused by a machine alleged to be negligently
constructed, a subsequent alteration or repair of the machine by the
defendant is not competent evidence of negligence in its original construction.

THIS was an action brought in a district court of the Territory of Washington, against a corporation owning a saw-mill,
by a man employed in operating a machine therein, called a
trimmer, to recover damages for the defendant's negligence
in providing an unsafe and defective machine, whereby one of
the pulleys, over which ran the belt transmitting power to the
saw, fell upon and injured the plaintiff. The defendant
denied any negligence on its part, and averred negligence on
the part of the plaintiff.
At the trial, the plaintiff introduced evidence tending to
show that the pulley, weighing about fifty pounds, revolved
around a stationary shaft made of gas pipe, with nothing to

COLUMBIA RAILROAD CO. v. HAWTHORNE.

203

Statement of the Case.

hold the pfulley on, but a common cap or nut screwed on the
end of the pipe, and its thread running in the same way as
the pulley, and liable to be unscrewed by the working of the
pulley; that the nut became unscrewed and came off, so that
the pulley fell upon and greatly injured the plaintiff; and
that if the nut had been properly put on, with a bolt through
the shaft, the accident could not have happened.
The plaintiff's counsel asked, a witness whether there had
been any change in the machinery since the accident. Thereupon the following colloquy took place:
Defendant's counsel. "We object to that. The rule is well
understood, and as your honor has already given it in other
cases, that a person is not bound to furnish the best known
machinery, but to furnish machinery reasonably safe. It is
not a question as to what we have done with the machinery
in the last few years or months since the :cident occurred,
but what was the condition then."
The Court. "The rule is quite well-settled, I think, that
where an accident occurs through defective machinery or
defective fixtures or the machine itself, if that is shown to be
true, then a change, repair or substitution of something else
for the defective machinery is admissible as showing or tending to show the fact. I think that is quite well settled."
Defendant's counsel. "I thoroughly concur with the court
as to the rule."
Plaintiff's counsel. "We propose to show changes."
The Court. "I think it is admissible."
Defendant's counsel. "We will save an exception."
The Court. "Exception allowed."
The-witness then answered that there had been changes
since the accident, and that they cpnsisted in putting a rod
through the shaft and gammon nuts on the end of the rod to
keep the pulleys on, and in .putting up some planks underneath-the pulleys to keep them from falling down. To the
admission of the evidence of each of these changes an exception was taken by the defendant and allowed by the judge.
At the close of all the evidence for the plaintiff, (which it is
unnecessary to state,) the defendant moved "for a judgment

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

of nonsuit, on the ground that the plaintiff had failed to prove
a sufficient cause for the jury;" and an exception to the overruling of this motion was taken by the defendant and allowed
by the court.
The defendant then introduced evidence, and the case was
argued by counsel and, submitted .bythe court to the jury,
who returned a verdict of $10,000 for the plaintiff, upon which
judgment was rendered. The defendant appealed to the
Supreme Court of the Territory, which affirmed the judgment. 3 Wash. Ter. 353. The defendant sued out this writ.
Mr. A't~mas H

Hfolmes for plaintiff in error.

.ir.John B. Allen for defendant in error.
Evidence was admitted of alterations in the machinery subsequent to the accident. At most, such testimony is but a
circumstance to be weighed by the jury for what it is worth.
In the case at bar it is of no consequence, because both the
defect causing the accident and the defendant's knowledge of
it were otherwise absolutely proven, with no attempt at contradiction. Moreover, it was waived.
The Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, after citing numerous
cases in support of the rule, said: "Plaintiff offered to show
that, immediately after the accident defendant put up a gaslight close to the opening of the elevator door. The evidence
should not have been rejected." McH'ee v. Bidwell, '74Peni.
St. 218, 225.
In West Cl/ester & Philadelphia Railroad v. ifoElwee,
6'1 Penn. St. 311, the court said: "There was no error in
admitting the testimony of Charles Rourke that the track had
beeh moved since the date of the accident. If it tended to
show, as suggested, that the track was originally too near the
office and shanty to permit the cars to be run on it without
danger, then it was evidence of a fact proper for the consideration of the jury in determining whether due and reasonable
caxe had been used by the company to avoid the accident.
If the proximity of the track to the buildings did not increase

COLUMBIA RAILROAD CO. v. HA? WTHORNE.

205

Opinion" of the Court.

the danger, why was it moved? And if it did, then a higher
degree of care was necessary in order to avoid accident, and
in this aspect the evidence was properly received."
In Readman v. Conway, 126 Mass. 374, evidence of subsequent repairs was held admissible, the court saying: "These
acts of the defendants were in the nature of admissions that
it was their duty to keep the platform in repair."
"The making of the passage way larger than it had formerly been was an admission, slight it may be, and of but
little value, but still an admission, on the part of the defendant, that the passage way had previously been too small.
And why might not the jury consider such evidence for what
it is worth? Many authorities sustain the introduction of this
lind of evidence." St. Louis & San Franisco Railway v.
Weaver, 35 Kansas, 412.
It is true the Supreme Court of Minnesota, in the case of
3forse v. .inneapolis & St. Louis Railway, 30 Minnesota, 465,
says such evidence ought not under any circumstances to be
admitted, but in the course' of the opinion the court said:
"Plaintiff was also permitted to show that after the accident
defendant repaired the switch alleged to have been defective."
But that court held in O'.Leary v. .Afankato, 21 Minnesota, 65,
that such evidence was, under certain circumstances, competent.
This case was followed in Phelps v. 7ankato,
.
23 -Minnesota,
276, and Eelly v. SoutA Jfinnesota Railway, 28 Minnesota, 98,
and this position is not without support in the decisions of
other courts.
In HEansas Paci* Railway v. 3filler, 2 Colorado, 442, the
following statement is made: "Objection was taken' to the
admissibility of evidence showing that after the accident
the company constructed a new bridge and afforded a larger
-space for the passage of water. The construction of the new
bridge in a manner different from the old one is an admission
that the first one was inadequate, but cannot be taken as an
admission that its construction was attended with negligence."
MR. JUSTICE GR&Y, after stating the case as above, delivered
the opinion of the court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

The question of the sufficiency of the evidence for the
plaintiff to support his action cannot be considered by this
court. It has repeatedly been decided that a request for a
ruling that upon the evidence introduced the plaintiff is not
entitled to .recover cannot be made by the defendant, as a
matter of right, unless at the close of the whole evidence;
and that if the defendant, at the close of the plaintiff's evidence, .and without resting his own case, requests and is
refused such a ruling, the refusal cannot be assigned for error.
Grand Trunk Railway v. Cummings, 106 U. S. 700; Aceident Ins. Co. v. Crandal, 120 U. S. 527; BYortliern Paciic
Rail'oad v.:fares, 123 U. S. 710; Robertson v. Perkins,129
U. S. 233.
The only other exception argued is to the 'admission of
evideipce of changes in the machinery after the accident.
It was argued for the plaintiff that this exception was not
open to the defendant, because it had been waived by his
counsel saying, after the first ruling of the court on the subject, "I thoroughly concur with the court as to the rule."
Assuming these words to be accurately reported, it is not
wholly clear whether they refer to the rule as to evidence
of subsequent changes, or to the rule, mentioned just before,
as to the degree of care required of the defendant. That they
were not understood, either by the counsel or by the court,
as waiving the objection to evidence of subsequent changes, is
shown by the plaintiff's counsel thereupon saying, "We propose
to show changes," and by the court ruling them to be admissible, and allowing an exception to this ruling, and immediately
afterwards allowing two other exceptions to evidence on the
same subject. And the question of the admissibility of this
testimony was considered and decided ly-the Supreme Court
of the Territory. 3 Wash: Ter. 353, 364.
This writ of error, therefore, directly presents for the decision of this court the question whether, in an action for
injuries caused by a machine alleged to be negligently constructed, a subsequent alteration or repair of the machine by
the defendant is competent evidence of negligence in its original construction.

COLUMBIA RAILROAD CO. v. HAWTHORNE.

207

Opinion of the Court.

Upon this question there has been some difference of opinion in the courts of the several States. But it is now settled,
upon much consideration, by the decisions of the highest
courts of most of the States in which the question has arisen,
that the evidence is incompetent, because the taking of such
precautions against the future is not to be construed as an
admission of responsibility for the past, has no legitimate
tendency to prove that the defendant had been negligent
before the accident happened, and is calculated to distract the
minds of the jury from the real issue, and to create a prejudice
against the defendant.
Morse v. _Minneapolis & St. Iouis
Railway, 30 Minnesota, 465; Corcoranv. PLeekskill, 108 N. Y.
151 ; Balley v: HartfordCauypet Co., 51 Connecticut, 524; Ely v.
St. Zouis de. Railway, 77 Missouri, 34; Missouri Pacoc
Railway v. tTennessey, 75 Texas, 155 ; Terre Iraute'& Indianapolis Railroadv. Cle , 123 Indiana, 15; Ijodges v. Percival,
132 Illinois, 53; Lombar v. East Tawas, 86 Michigan, 14;
Shinners v. Proprietorsof Iocks d Canals, 154 Mass. 168.
As was pointed out by the court in the last case, the decision in Read nan v. C.n.way, 126 Mass. 374, 377, cited by this
plaintiff, has no bearing upon this question, but simply held
that in an action for injuries from a defect in a platform,
brought against the owners of the land, who defended on the
ground that the duty of keeping the platform in repair belonged to their tenants and not to themselves, the defendants'
acts in making general repairs of the platform after the accident "were in the nature of admissions that it was their duty to
keep the platform in repair, and were therefore competent."
The only States, so far as we are informed, in which subsequent changes are held to be evidence of prior negligence, are
Pennsylvania and Kansas, the decisions in which are supported
by no satisfactory reasons. MAtcKee v. Bidwell, 74 Penn. St.
218, 225, and cases cited; St. Louis 'cQSan .FranciscoRailway
v. Weaver, 35 Kansas, 4i2.
The true rule and the reasons for it were well expressed in
.Morse v. Xfiiineapolis & St. Louis Railway, above cited, in
which Mr. Justice Mitchell, delivering the unanimous opinion
of the Supreme Court of Mininesota, after referring to, earlier

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

opinions of the same court the other way, said: "But on
mature reflection, we have concluded thjt evidence of this
kind ought not to be admitted under any circumstances, and
that the rule heretofore adopted by this court is on principle
wrong; not for the reason given by some courts, that the acts
of the employ~s in making such repairs are not admissible
against theft principals, but upon the broader ground that
such acts afford no legitimate basis for construing such an act
as an admission of previous neglect of duty. A person may
have exercised all the care which the law required, and yet,
in the light of his new experience, after an unexpected accident has occurred, and as a measure of extreme caution, he
may adopt additional safeguards. The more careful a person
is, the moe regard he has for the lives of others, the more
likely he would be to do so, and it would seem unjust that he
could not do so without being liable to have such acts construed as an admission of prior negligence. We think such a
rule puts an unfair interpretation upon human conduct, and
virtually holds out an inducement for continued negligence."
30 Minnesota, 465, 468.
The same rule appears to be well settled in England. In a
case in which it was affirmed by the Court of Exchequer,
Baron Bramwell said: "People do not furnish evidence
against themselves simply by adopting a new plan in order to*
prevent the recurrence of an accident. I think that a proposition to the contrary would be barbarous. It would be, as I
have often had occasion to tell juries, to hold that, because
the world gets wiser as it gets older, therefore it was foolish
before."

Hart v. Lancashire & Yorkshire Railway, 21 Law

Times (N. S.) 261, 263.
As the incompetent evidence admitted against the defendant's exception bore upon -one of the principal issues on trial,
and tendred to prejudice the jury against the defendant, and it
cannot be known how much 4he jury were influenced by it, its
admission requires that the
Judgment be reversed, and the case remanded to the Supreme
Court of the *Stateof Washinzgton, with directions to set
aside the verdict and to order a new trial.

