THE BLUE JACKET.
Syllabus.

judgment, therefore, of a state court, even if rendered pursuant
to a statute, inflicting or allowing the infliction of a cruel and
unusual punishment, is inconsistent vith the supreme law of
the land. The judgment before us by which the defendant
is confined at hard labor in a House of Correction for the
term of 19,914 days, or fifty-four years and two hundred and
four days, inflicts punishment, which, in "view of the character of the offences committed, must be deemed cruel and
unusual.
Without noticing other questions, I am of opinion that upon
the ground last stated the judgment should be reversed.
MR. JusTIcE BREWER authorizes me to say that in the main
he concurs with the views expressed in this opinion.

THE BLUE JACKET.
THE TACOMA.
APPEAL

FROM

THE SUPREME

COURT

OF

THE TERRITORY OF

WASHINGTON.
No. 241. Argued March 24, 25, 1892.-Decided April 4, 1892.

A collision occurred between a ship and a steam-tug while the navigation

rules established by the act of March 3, 1885, c. 354, 23 Stat. 438, were in
force. The tug was required to keep out of the way of the ship and the
ship to keep her course. The tug ported her helm to avoid the ship, and
that would have been effectual if the ship had not afterwards changed
her course by starboarding her helm. If the ship had. kept her course,
or ported her helm, the collision would have been avoided. The change
of course by the ship was not necessary or excusable. The tug did
everything to avoid the collision and lessen the damage. The tug had a
competent mate, who faithfully performed his duties although he had nb
license. Although the tug had no such lookout as was required by
law, that 'fact did not contribute to the collision. The tug did not
slacken her speed before the collision. There was no risk of collision
until the ship starboarded, and then the peril was so great and thb vessels
were slich a short distance apart that the tug may well be considered as
having been in extremis, before the time Nihen it became her duty to atop
and reverse, so that any error of judgment in not sooner stopping and
reversing was not a fault.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.
The case of The JTanitoba, 122 U. S. 97, distinguished.
The tug was not in fault and the ship was wholly in fault.
The appeal being from the Supreme Court of the Territory of Washington,
and that Territory having become a State, the case was remanded to the
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Washington, (Act
of February 22, 1889, c. 180, 25 Stat. 676, 682, 683, §§ 22, 23,) for further
proceedings according to law.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Xr. John B. Allen for appellant.
]Mr. John H. Mitchell for appellee.
MR. JusTIcE BLATCHFORD

delivered the opinion of the court.

On the 11th of June, 1885, about two o'clock in the morning,
the steam-tug Tacoma. was towing the bark Colusa, of about
1200 tons burden, laden with lumber and bound on a voyage to
San Francisco, California, from Port Townsend, in the Territory of Washington, to Cape Flattery, the bark being towed by
a hawser about 150 fathoms long, and the stern of the tug being
about 750 feet ahead of the stem of the bark. When the tug
and the bark were about four miles to the north of Ediz Hook
light, in the Straits of Fuca, in the Territory of Washington,
they were steering west-southwest half west, anu moving along
a path west half south, at the rate of about two miles an hour
by the land. The ship Blue Jacket, of San Francisco, was on
her way from that city to Seattle, in the Territory of Washington, and when she was about two miles from the tug, and showed
her red light about three-tenths of a point on the port bow of
the tug, she was sighted by the lookout on the tug. The
weather was cloudy but the air was clear, with a fresh breeze
blowing from the west-southwest; and the tide was flood, running up the Straits of Fuca at the rate of three miles an hour,
from west-southwest or west-southwest half west. The ship's
mean course was east-northeast, but her course was really
along a swinging path, deviating alternately to starboard and
port about one-half of a point each way from her mean course,

THE BLUE JACKET.
Opinion of the Court.

and crossing the same about every one-half mile, at intervals of
about every four minutes. She was running with a fair wind
and tide, and going ahead at the rate of about eight miles an
hour by the land.
The lookout on the ship first sighted the tug about half an
hour before the collision hereinafter mentioned, about half a
point on the starboard bow of the ship and five miles away,
showing two white mast-head lights to the ship at that time
and at all times up to'the collision, and the red lights of the
tug and the bark being seen by those on' board of the ship
from 10 to 12 minutes before the collision. When the tug
was so sighted, she was reported at once to the master and
mate of the ship. Two and one-half minutes before the collision, the tug being about one-third of a mile from the ship
and half-a-point off her port bow, the ship bearing about one
and three-eighths points off the port bow of the tug, and showing
both her lights to the bark and her red light to. the tug, and
the bark bearing dead ahead from the ship, the tug, for the
purpose of avoiding the ship, put her helm hard-a-port and
swung to starboard; but the ship immediately thereafter, instead of keeping her course or putting her helm to port, put
her helm hard-a-starboard and kept it in that position until the
collision occurrect Nfeither the tug nor the bark, at any time
up to the collision,, showed to the ship any side or colored
lights except their red lights. By putting her helm hard-astarboard, the ship slewed rapidly around to her port until her
course was changed to about north-northeast; and while the
tug was still .swinging to her starboard under a port helm, the
two vessels came into collision, the ship striking the tug bow
on, on the port side of the tug just abaft of midships, and
.damaging the tug seriously.
On the 3d of September, 1885, the Tacoma Mill Company,
owner of the tug, filed a libel in rem against the ship, in the
District Cont of the Third Judicial District of Washington
Territory, claiming to recover from the ship $12,000 as damages. Process was issued, and the ship was duly seized and
due notice given. On the 4th of September, 1885, the master
of the ship put in a claim to her, for D. 0. Mills as her owner.

OCTOBER TERM:, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

On the 29th of October, 1885, D. 0. Mills, as such owner, filed
a cross-libel in rem, in the same court, against the tug, to recover $900 damages. On the 29th of October, 1885, the master of the ship, on behalf of her owner, put in an answer to
the libel of the Tacoma Mill Company.
On the 2d of April, 1886, the Tacoma Mill Company filed an
amended libel against the ship, and on the same day the same
company filed an answer to the cross-libel of D. 0. Mills. The
amended libel sets forth the particulars of the occurrences
which preceded and attended the collision, and alleges that
, here was no negligence on the part of the tug, but that
shortly after her helm was put hard-a-port, the ship, instead of
keeping her course, as it was her duty to do, and which
would have avoided the collision, negligently put her helm
hard-a-starboard; that by that time the tug and the ship were
so close together, and the course of the ship, then running
free, was thereby so changed, that the tug could not keep out
of her way; that the ship had not a proper lookout or watch;
that no special circumstances existed which rendered necessary
a departure from the steering and sailing rules prescribed by
act of Congress; that the ship did not have her side-lights
properly set, but they were so placed that they did not throw
a uniform or unbroken light from right ahead to two points
tbaft the beam, or at all, and she did not, on the approach of
the tug, show a lighted torch, as she should have done, on the
point or quarter of the ship which the tug was approaching;
and that, if those in charge of her, when they put her helm
hard-a-starboard, had hauled her spanker boom midships and
braced her after yards in on the port side, all of which they
negligently failed to do, although they had abundant time so
to do, the collision would have been avoided. The answer to
the cross-libel makes the same allegations.
The cross-libel against the tug alleges that the latter, when
about 1000 or 1500 feet away from the ship, and about two
points off her starboard bow, hard-a-ported her helm and un, skilfully threw herself across the bows of the ship, and rendered a c6llision imminent; that the tug had no colored lights
set, and it was not discovered .by those in charge of the navi-

THE BLUE JACKET.
OPinion of the Court.

gation of the ship that the tug had changed her course until
she was within about 275 or 300 feet of the ship, and steering
directly across her bows; that it was then apparent to those in
charge of the navigation of the ship that if she kept her course
or ported her helm she would collide with either the tug or the
bark and perhaps both, and they, thinking and believing that
those in charge of the navigation of the tug would stop and reverse her engine, which they should have done and which
would have avoided the collision, th6 helm of the ship was immediately put hard-a-starboard, for the purpose of rendering
the blow and the damages as light as possible, in case the vessels collided, and because it was believed that by so doing
the ship would clear the tug; that that was all it was possible
for the ship to do toward avoiding the collision,, which occurred within two or three minutes after it appeared to the
ship that the tug had changed her course; that the' tug should
have kept her course and passed to the starboard of the ship,
.which would have avoided the collision; that the tug should
have exercised precautionary measures to prevent the collision
from the time she sighted the ship, which she did not do; that
the tug placed the ship in such a position that it was impossible for the ship to do anything that would avoid a collision;
that the tug, when she saw that the collision was probable,
should have stopped and reversed her engine, which she
did not do, and which would have avoided the collision;
that the tug should have had her green and red lights
set, which she did not have, and which would have
enabled the ship to observe her change of course; that
the tug should have indicated her course by signals on
her steam whistle, which she did not do; that at the
time of the collision and for some time prior thereto, the"
person acting in the capacity of first officer of the tug had
charge of her navigation -and was acting also as wheelsman
and lookout, and had no officer's license, and was so acting in
violation of law, and was wholly incompetent and not a suitable person to occupy such a position; and that the tug did
not have, before or at the time of the collision, a wheelsman
or proper lookout to guard against the danger of a collision.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

It also alleges that the collision was due to the negligence of
the tug, and that there was no fault on the part of the ship.
The answer to the libel contains substantially the same allegations as the cross-libel.
The record properly omits the proofs bat shows that on the
7th of March, 1887, the cause having been heard on the pleadings and proofs, the District Court filed its findings of fact
and conclusions of law. The findings of fact were 29 in number, and were verbatim the same as the first 29 findings hereinafter set forth, made by the Supreme Court of the Territory
on appeal. The first, second, and fourth conclusions of law
made by the District Court were in terms identical with the
first, second and fourth conclusions of law of the Supreme
Court of the Territory, hereinafter set forth. The third conclusion of law made by the District Court was that the Tacoma
Kill Company was entitled to recover from the claimants of
the ship $11,043.75 and costs, and was entitled to a decree
that the stipulators for the claimant of the ship pay that sum
into court within ten days, with the costs; and that, in case
they failed so to do, the company was entitled to a summary
judgment against them, and each of them, for said amount and
costs, and for an order for execution.
Prior to the filing of the findings of fact and conclusions of
law by the District Court, proposed findings appear to have
been presented to that court by the Tacoma Mill Company on
behalf of the tug, and brought to the attention of the counsel
for the ship, because on the 28th of February, 1887, a petition
for a rehearing was filed in the District Court on behalf 'of he
ship, and on the 4th of March, 1887, exceptions were filed, by
the ship to the whole or parts of findings of fact Nos. 3, 5, 6,
.9, 10 .11, 12, 14, 16, 17, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25. 26 and 27, and
to all of the conclusions of law.
On the 8th of March, 1887, a decree was entered by the
District Court, with the title of the libel and the cross-libel,
dismissing, the cross-libel at the cost of the cross-libellant, and
decreeing that the 'Tacoma Mill Company recover from the
claimant of the ship $11,043.75 and costs, and that the stipulators for the claimant of the ship pay that sum and the costs

THE BLUE JACKET.

Opinion of the Court.
into court within twdnty days, and that in case they failed to
*do so a summary judgment should be entered against them,
and each of them, on their stipulation, for the amount thereof,
and execution should issue therefor to satisfy the decree. On
the same day, the claimant of the ship and cross-libellant
appealed in open court from the decree to the Supreme Court
of the Territory.
The case was heard in the Supreme Court of the Territory,
and on the 25th of July, 1888, it announced that the decision
of the District Court was affirmed in full. A petition for a
rehearing was then filed on behalf of the ship and was heard
and denied. The opinion of the Supreme Court in the case
is .reported in 3 Washington Ter. 581, and was delivered by
Justice Langford, and concurred in by his two associates. It
says: "In this case the appeal is from both the findings of
fact and the conclusions of law thereon. There is no contention but that the conclusions of law of the District Court were
correct if the findings of fact were correct; but the sole contention is, that the District Court erred as to its findings of
fact, and hence that conclusions of law predicated on such
erroneous findings of fact were wrong, but only because the
findings of fact were wrong. As this court refinds the facts
as the District Court found them, (with the additional findings
requested by the proctor for the appellants hereunto attached
and adopted by this coufrt,) all contention ceases except as to
the error of fact. The only opinion, therefore, that could be
written in this case, that would be germane to the question
raised, would be an opinion which would give reasons as to
why the findings of fact are correct deductions from the evidence. Such could not be useful or. necessary, and hence, no
attempt will be made to give reasons for the findings of fact.
But these findings of fact and conclusions 9f law thereon are
all the decision which the case requires, and they are as follows." Then follow the findings of fact, 30 in number, and
the 3 additional findings of fact requested on the part of the
ship and fouud by the Supreme Court, and also its conclusions
of law, all of which are set forth in the margin, the part in
brackets at the close of the first additional finding of fact not

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

being contained in that additional finding as requested by the
proctor for the ship, but being added by the court.'
11. That the libellant, the Tacoma Mill Company, is and at all times
mentioned in the pleadings in this cause was a corporation organized and
existing under the laws of the State of California and duly authorized to do
business in the Territory of Washington.
2. That said libellant, before and at the time of the collision mentioned
in these findings, was and still is the owner and proprietor of the steam-tug
Tacoma, with her steam-engines, boilers, machinery, tackle, apparel and
furniture; which said steam-tug said libellant used in towing vessels from,
to and between the various ports of Puget Sound and the Pacific Ocean, on
the waters of Puget Sound and the Straits of Fuca and through the waters
tributary and adjacent thereto, and where she was regularly run, daily and
every day except Sunday, for the purposes aforesaid.
3. That on the eleventh day of June, 1885, at the hour of about two o'clock
in the morning of said day, said steam-tug Tacoma, with her steam-engines,
boilers, apparel, tackle and furniture on board, was towing the bark Colusa,
of the port of Boston, of about twelve hundred tons burden, then and there
lumber-laden and bound upon a voyage to San Francisco, California, from
the port of Port Townsend, in said Territory of Washington, to Cape Flattery, and the said steam-tug, with said tow, was then about four miles to the
north of Ediz Hook light, in the Straits of Fuca, steering west-southwest
one-half west and moving along a path west one-half south at the rate of
about two miles per hour by the land.
4. That at that time and up to the time when said ship put her helm
hard-astarboard, as hereinafter mentioned, said bark was being towed by
said tug by means of a hawser about one hundred and fifty fathoms in
length, and from the stern of the said tug to the stem of said bark the distance was about seven hundred ahd fifty feet, and during all the times mentioned herein said bark was steering the same course as said tug.
5. That at that time, and during all times up to the collision hereinafter
mentioned, the weather was cloudy, the air was clear, and a fresh breeze
was blowing from the west-southwest, and the tide was flooding, running
up the Straits of Fuca at the rate of three miles per hour from west-southwest or west-southwest one-half west.
6. That said steam-tug at that time and up to the time of the collision
'hereinafter mentioned was tight, staunch, strong and in every respect well
tackled, apparelled an ippointed and had the usual complement of officers
and men, and was also, except as hereinafter found, well manned.
7. That said tug at that time and at all times herein mentioned carried
all the lights prescribed by law and carried the same in the manner prescribed by law, and the same were at all of said times properly set and
brightly burning.
8. That said bark Colusa at all times carried all the lights prescribed by
the law and carried the same in the manner prescribed by law, and the same
were at all times properly set and brightly burning.

TRlE BLUE JACKET.
Opinion of the Court.

On. the 14th of August, 1888, the Supreme Court entered
a decree dismissing the cross-libel at the cost of the cross9. That at about ten minutes before two o'clock in the morning of said
day, while said steam-tug was towing said bark Colusa at the place and in
the manner hereinbefore stated and steering on the said course, the ship
-Blue Jacket, of San Francisco, whereof F. F. Percival was then and there
master, and being .then on her way from San FranciscQ to the- port of
Seattle, in the Territory of Washington, was first sighted by the lookout of
said tug, said ship then being about two miles distant from said steam-tug.
and showing her red light about three-tenths of a point on the port bow of
said steam-tug.
10. That the mean course of said ship at all the times mentioned in
these findings up to the time her helm was put hard-a-starboard was eastnortheast, but her course was really along a swinging path deviating alternately to starboard and port about one-half a point each way from said
mean course, and crossing the same about every half mile, at intervals of
about every four minutes up to the time her helm was put hard-a-starboard,
as hereinafter stated, which was done when said ship was on the port side
of said mean course.
11. That said ship was running with a fair wind and tide and at all times
up to the time of the collision was going ahead at the rate of about eight
miles per hour by the land.
12. That said. steam-tug was first sighted by the lookout of said ship
about half an hour before said collision and was then about one-half a point
off the starboard bow of said ship and five miles away from her, showing
two white mast-head lights to said ship at that time and at all times up to
the time of said collision, the said tug steering at that time and at all times
until her helm was put hard-a-port, as hereinafter stated, a course of westsouthwest one-half west, but owing to the deflecting influence of wind and tide
moving along a path in the direction of west one-half south; that said tug
when so sighted by said lookout was at once reported to the master and
mate of said ship.
13. That, owing to the improper manner in which said ship was steered
and to the irregular course which she pursued in consequence of such improper management, said tug bore from said ship from time to time!about
as follows:
At twenty-three and three-quarters minutes before said collision (being
three and five-sixths miles away), dead ahead.
At twenty-two and one-half minutes before said collision (being three
and five-eighths miles away), dead ahead.
At twenty-one and one-quarter minutes before said collision (being three
and three-sevenths miles away), one-half a point off the starboard bow.
At twenty minutes before said collision (being three and two-niaths
miles away), one-half a point off the starboard bow.
At eighteen and three-quarters minutes before said cQllision (being three
miles away), one-half a point off the starboard bow.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

libellant, and decreeing that the Tacoma Mill Company recover from the claimant of the ship and from its' stipulators
At seventeen and one-half minutes before said collision (being two and
three-quarters miles away), one-third of a point off the starboard bow.
At sixteen and one-quarter minutes before said collision (being two and
five-eighths miles away), one-eighth of a point off the starboard bow.
At fifteen minutes before said collision (being two and two-fifths niiles
away), one-twelfth of a point off the starboard bow.
At thirteen and three-quarters minutes before said collision (being two
and one-seventh miles away), dead ahead.
At twelve and one-half minutes before said collision (being two miles
away), one-third of a point off the port bow, the ship bearing three-tenths of
a point off the port bow of the tug and showing her red light to both the
tug and bark, the bark bearing three-tenths of a point off the port bow of
the ship.
At eleven and one-quarter minutes before said collision (being one and
three-fourths miles away), one-half a point off the port bow, the ship bearing one-third of a point off the port bow of the tug and showing her red
light to both the tug and the bark, and the bark bearing four-tenths of a
point off the port bow of the ship.
At ten minutes before said collision (being one and four-sevenths miles
away), five-eighths of a point off the port bow, the ship bearing four-tenths
of a point off the port bow of the tug and showing her red light to both the
tug and the bark, and the bark bearing from the ship five-ninths of a point
off her port bow.
At eight and three-quarters minutes before said collision (being one,
and one-third miles away), one-half of a point off the port bow, the ship
bearing one-half of a point off the port bow of the tug, showing her red
light to both the tug and the bark, and the bark bearing one-half of a point
off the port bow of the ship.
At seven and one-half minutes before said collision (being one and oneseventh miles away), one-sixth of a point off the port bow, the ship bearing
two-thirds of a point off the port bow of the tug and showing her red light
to both the tug and the bark, the bark bearing one-eighth of a point off the
port bow of the ship.
At six and one-quarter minutes before said collision (being nine-tenths
of a mile tway), dead ahead, the ship bearing two-thirds of a point off the
port bow of the tug and showing both of her lights to both the tug and
the bark, the bark bearing one-tenth of a point off the starboard bow of
the ship.
At five minutes before the said collision (being five-sevenths of a mile
away), dead ahead, the ship bearing three-fourths of a point off the port
bow of the tug and showing both her lights to the tug and her green light
to the bark, the bark bearing one-sixth of a point off the starboard bow
of the ship.

THE BLUE JACKET.
Opinion of the Court.

$12,121.02 and costs to be taxed, and that execution issue
therefor.

On the same day, in open court, the claimant of the

At three and three-quarters minutes before said collision (being one-half
of a mile away), dead ahead, the ship bearing five-sixths of.a point off the
port bow of the tug and showing both of her lights to the tug and her green
light to the bark, the bark bearing one-sixth of a point off the starboard
bow of the ship.
14. That two and one-half minutes before the said collision, said tug
being about one-third of a mile distant from said ship and one-half a point
off her port bow, the ship bearing about one and three-eighths points off the
port bow of the tug and showing both her lights to the bark and her red
light to the tug, and the bark bearing dead ahead from the ship, said tug,
for the purpose of avoiding the ship, put her helm hard-a-port and swung
to starboard, but the said ship immediately thereafter, instead of keeping
her course or putting her helm to port, either of which she could and one
of which she should have done, and either of which would have avoided
said collision, carelessly, unskilfully and negligently put her helm hard-astarboard and kept the same in that position until the said collision
occurred.
15. That the red lights of both said tug and said bark were visible to
and were seen by those on board of said ship from ten to twelve minutes
before said collision.
16. That although said lights of both said tug and, said bark were properly set and brightly burning, such were the relative positions of said ship,
said tug and said bark that neither said tug nor said bark at any time up to
the time of the collision showed the said ship any side or colored lights except said red lights.
17. That owing to the putting of said helm of said ship to starboard as
aforesaid said ship slewed rapidly around to port until her course -was
changed to about north-northeast, and she then, at about 2 o'clock in the
morning of said l1th day of June, while the tug was still swinging to starboard under a ported helm, collided with said tug, striking her "bow on"
on the port side just abaft of midships, thereby causing great damage to
the hull of said tug, her machinery, tackle, apparel and furniture.
18. That had said ship kept her course or had her helm been put to port
at the time it was put to starboard said collision would have been avoided,
and no injury would have been occasioned to either said ship, said tug or
said bark.
19. That no special circumstance at any time mentioned herein existed
which rendered a change of course on the part of said ship necessary or
excusable:
20. That as soon as it was possible for those on board of said tug to discover that said ship had put her helm to starboard everything was done on
said tug to avoid said collision and lessen the damage occasioned thereby,
and at the time of said collision said- tug, owing to said port helm, was
heading about north-northwest.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891
Opinion of the Court

ship and her owner . 0. Mills, the cross-libellant, and the
stipulators, took an appeal to this court, which was allowed.
21. That up to the time that said ship's helm was put to starboard as
aforesaid no one on board of said tug bad any reason to expect or anticipate any change of course on the part of said ship, and after the helm of
said ship was so put to starboard nothing that said tug could have done
would have averted said collision.
22. That the mate of said tug was a competent person for that position
and faithfully performed his duties at alltimes mentioned in these findings,
but he had no license.
23. That said collision was caused and all the damage resulting therefrom was occasioned solely by the negligence, want of skill and improper
conduct of the officers and persons navigating said ship Blue Jacket, and
not from any fault, negligence or improper conduct on the part of any person on board the said steam-tug Tacoma.
24. That the side lights of said ship Blue Jacket were at all times
herein mentioned brightly burning, but were not placed or constructed so
as to show a uniform and unbroken light over an arc of the horizon of ten
points of the compass or so fixed as to throw a light from right ahead to
two points abaft the beam on the side of the ship on which said lights
were respectively placed; but these facts in nowise contributed to said
collision.
25. That said steam-tug Tacoma had no such lookout as is required by
law ; but this fact in nowise contributed to said collision.
26. That said ship was well officered and manned and had the- usual
number of officers and seamen on board.
27. That said steam-tug was damaged by said collision in the sum of
seventy-five hundred dollars, and the said libellant has in consequence of
said damage been obliged to expend and has expended in repairing the same
the sum of seventy-five hundred dollars, the last of which said sum was
so paid on or prior to the 15th day of August, 1885, and that said libellant
is entitled to interest at the rate of ten per cent per annum upon said sum
from said 15th day of August, 1885, to this day.
28. That said libellant, the Tacoma Mill Company, by reason of said
collision, has sustained damages by being deprived of the services and use
of said tug for the period of fifty days immediately following said collision,
and the said services and use were during said period of fifty days reasonably worth the sum of forty-seven and fifty-hundredths dollars per day
over and above all expenses of running and operating the said tug.
29. That on the 4th day of September, 1885, J. Furth and Bailey Gatzert
entered into a stipulation, in accordance with the rules and practice of the
said district court, in the sum of twenty-four thousand dollars, for the
release of said ship Blue Jacket from arrest in this cause; which said stipulation was conditioned that said claimant should abide and pay the money
awarded in the final decree rendered in this cause by the district court, or,
in case of appeal, by the appellate court.

THE BLUE JACKET.

383

Opinion of the Court.

It was contended in the lower court, as set forth in the answer and the cross-libel on the part of the ship, that the col30. That on the 22d: day of March, 1887, J. Furth and Bailey Gatzert
entered into a stipulation, in accordance with the rules and practice of the
said district court, in the sum of twenty thousand dollars upon an appeal
from the said district court to this court; which said stipulation was conditioned that the said stipulators should pay all damages and costs that should
be adjudged against the said ship on said appeal, and also that said ship
should satisfy and perform the decree appealed from, in case it should be
affirmed, and any judgment or order which this court might render or order
to be rendered by the district court, not exceeding in amount or value the
said sum of twenty thousand dollars.
Additional Findings Requested by the Proctorfor the Appellants and
Adopted by the Supreme Court.
1. The master of the tug went to bed a little'after midnight preceding
the collision, and the acting mate was alone in the pilot-house of the tug,
and was the only officer in charge of the navigation of the tug and the only
person in charge of the tug's wheel from midnight until one minute or less
before the collision, when the captain arrived on deck [but this fact did not
i,
contribute to the collision].
2. The captain was awakened and arrived on deck about one-half a minute
before the vessels came together, and, after inquiring what the trouble was,
and being told a ship was coming into them, ordered the mate to stop and
reverse, which order was only partly obeyed by the mate, who rang the bells
in obedience to the order sufficient to stop the engines, but not to reverse
them, and then.let go of the bell-pull and of the wheel and ran out of the
pilot-house to avoid danger to himself, which he supposed to be imminent,
as the ship was then coming in contact with the tug.
3. For some time prior to and until the captain ordered the mate of the
tug to stop and reverse, the engines of the tug were going ahead at full
speed, and the tug was making the speed hereinbefore found of two miles
an hour by the shore.
And from these findings of fact the court makes the followingConclusions qf Law.
1. That said tug was not in fault or in anywise blamable for any damage
resulting either to herself or said ship.
2. The said ship was in fault in this:
First. Sh did not keep a sufficiently steady helm, but allowed herself to
swing alternately to port and starboard before she put her helm hard-astarboard.
Second. She put her helm hard-a-starboard when she should have put it
hard-a-port or kept her course.
3. That said libellant, the Tacoma Mill Company, is entitled to recover
of and from F. F. Percival, the claimant in this cause, and from J. Furth

OCTOBER TERMA, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

lision resulted through the fault of the tug, entitling the ship
to damages. It is urged here that, although by finding 23 it is.
found that the collision and all resulting damages were "occasioned solely by the negligence, want of skill and improper
conduct of the officers and persons navigating said ship Blue
Jacket, and not from any fault, negligence or improper conduct on the part of any person on board the said steam-tug
Tacoma," yet there are express and specific findings which not
only fail to sustain the general deduction in finding 23, but
demonstrate that the faults or misconduct resulting in the collision were mutual, if not entirely those of the tug, and that
such findings, like special verdicts, overcome the general findings and are controlling; that it is found by finding 24 that
the side lights of the ship were at all times brightly burning,
but were not placed or constructed so as to show a uniform
and unbroken light over an arc of the horizon of ten points of
the compass, or so fixed as to throw a light from right ahead
to two points abaft the beam on the side of the ship on which
said lights were respectively placed, but that those facts in
nowise contributed to the collision; that it is found by finding
26 that the ship was well officered and manned, and had the
usual number of officers and seamen on board; that it is found
by finding 12 that the tug was first sighted by the lookout of
the ship about half an hour before the collision, at five miles
distance; that that demonstrates the vigilance of the lookout
of the ship; that it is found by finding 10 that the mean
course of the ship up to the time her helm was put hard-a-starboard was east-northeast, but her course was really along a
swinging path deviating alternately to starboard and port
about one-half a point each way from said mean course, and
crossing: the same about every half-mile, at intervals of about
and Bailey Gatzert, his stipulators, the sum of-twelve thousand one hundred and twenty-one dollars & 2-100 ($12,121.02) and its costs an disbursements to be taxed, and is entitled to an order that execution issue upon
said judgment against the goods, chattels and lands of said claimant and
stipulators.
4. That said libellant is entitle, to a decree dismissing the cross-libel at
\
the costs of the cross-libellant.

THE BLUE JACKET.
Opinion of the Court.

every four minutes, up to the time her helm was put hard-astarboard, which was done when the ship was on the port side.
of said mean course; and that by finding 2 of the conclusions
of law it was found that the -ship was in fault in that (1) she
did not kieep a sufficiently steady helm, but allowed herself to
swing alternately to port and starboard before she put her helm
hard-a-starboard, and (2) that she put her helm hard-a-starboard
when she should have put it hard-a-port or kept her course.
It is urged for the ship that the equality of deviations of
about one-half a point to the right and left of her mean course,
and the uniformity* of their occurrence, suggests that they
were unavoidable and were constantly being corrected; that
this was due to the fact that she was moving with the wind
and was doubtless receiving it somewhat irregularly, as she was
fifty miles from the ocean and was borne with a three-mile
tide, forced through a contracted *channel; that the Supreme
,Court of the Territory attached little if any significance to its
three additional findings of fact, and did not consider their
effect -upon any of the findings which preceded them; and
that the specific findings overcome the conclusion in finding
23, that the collision was not bccasioned by any fault, negligence or improper conduct on the part of any person on board
of the tug, and the conclusion in finding 20, that when the
collision was impending everything was done on the tug to
avoid it and lessen the damage.
Attention is also called to the fact that it is found in finding
22, that, although the mate of the tug was a competent person for the position and faithfully performed his duties at. all
times mentioned in 'the findings, yet he had no license; and
that-it is found in finding 25 that the tug had no such lookout
as is required by law, although that fact in nowise contributed
to the collision. Attention is alsc' called to the findings in
additional finding 1, and to the fact found in additional finding 3, that until the captain of the tug ordered her mate to
stop and reverse her engine, as set forth in additional finding
2, the tug was going ahead at full speed and making two
miles an hour by the shore against a three-mile tide; and
that nothing was done in slowing, stopping or reversing
VOL. cxLiV-25

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

her engine until that was done which is set forth in additional
finding 2.
It is also urged that if the ship was moving in a swinging
path and was in fault in so doing, the tug had been afforded
ample opportunity of observing the ship's course and had
many miles of sea room in which to give her a wide berth,
instead of which the tug held to her course with her engine
at full speed until the vessels were brought near to each other;
and that such conduct on her part, with the fact found in
finding 25 that she had no such lookout as is required by law,
while an unlicensed mate had the sole control of her, and her
captain was asleep, showed the grossest recklessness. Attention is also called to the facts, that the course of the ship, subject to the swinging irregularity before mentioned, was, until
about two and a half minutes before the collision, east-northeast, while the tug was steering west-southwest one-half west,
and was moving along a path west one-half south; that the
combined speed of the two vessels in 'approaching each other
was ten miles an hour by the land; that the finding is that
the vessels were about one-third of a mile apart, and the tug
one-half a point off the ship's port bow, and the ship bearing
one and three-eighths points off the port bow of the tug, when
the tug put her helm hard-a-port, and swung to starboard, and
that immediately thereafter the ship put her helm hard-a-starboard, the effect of which was to change the ship's course to
about north-northeast, and that of the tug to about northnorthwest, and while the vessels were on these converging
courses, the ship struck the tug bow on, on the port side of the
tug, fIfst abaft of midships; that these findings demonstrate
that if the tug had slowed on nearing the ship, or had stopped
and reversed her engine after the ship changed her course, the
latter would have crossed the tug's course in advance of the
tug without injury to either vessel; and that, if there had
been a competent lookout on the tug, or if her captain had
come on deck two minutes instead of one-half a minute before
the collision, and had then given the order to stop and reverse,
and that order had been promptly obeyed, or if the mate, at
any time in several minutes, had done what the captain at the

TIE BLUE JACKET.
Opinion of the Court.

last instant recognized as the tug's duty, namely, to stop and
reverse, the accident would have been avoided.

It is also said for the ship that, for the purposes of this
appeal, it may be considered that she was in fault in not keeping her course, although the conduct of those in charge of the
tug, as established by the findings of fact, goes far to show
that the ship's situation was one of embarrassment, and was
reasonably believed to be one of extremity, requiring her to
change her course to avoid collision, yet those in chargeof the
tug cannot escape the responsibility of their negligence and
misconduct in failing to have a .proper lookout, and recklessly
keeping on at full speed until the vessels were so near together
that the mate of the tug abandoned the wheel and the pilothouse, only before doing so ringing the bells sufficiently to
stop the engine but not to reverse it. It is also urged that the
determination of eighteen relative positions of the colliding"
vessels, given in findings 13 and 14, beginning twenty-three
and three-quarters minutes and ending two and one-half minutes before the collision, must all fail, if there was any mistake
in the premises or calculation of the court, and that the conclusion must be that the facts thus found are theoretical and
speculative. It is also contended that the only misconduct to
be charged against the ship, in the light of the special findings
was in changing her. course; but that that was to be excused
by the misconduct of those in charge of the tug, leading the
ship into embarrassment and causing those in charge of her-to
believe that she wa's in extremity and was compelled to change
her course; and that, therefore, she ought to be relieved from
liability, while the tug cannot escape an apportionment of the
damages to which her fault contributed, including those suffered by the ship and set forth in her answer and her crosslibel.
But we are of opinion that the foregoing contentions are of
no avail in favor of the ship, against the findings of fact of the
Supreme Court of the Territory. We think that the additional
findings made by that court do not modify the findings made
by the District Court, and that, therefore, the findings of fact
and conclusions of law made by the two courts are substan-

'38$

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

tially identical. There is no bill of exceptions, and, therefore,
the only question is whether the findings of fact made by the
Supreme Court support the conclusions of law which it made.
The navigation rules in force June 11, 1885, when this collision occurred, were those established by the act of March 3,
1885, c. 354, 23 Stat. 438. That statute provides as follows:
"Art. 17. If two ships, one of which is a sailing ship and
the other a steamship, are proceeding in such directions as to
involve risk of collision, the steamship shall keep out of the
way of the sailing ship.
"Art. 18. Every steamship, when approaching another ship
so as to involve risk of collision, shall slacken her speed, or
stop and reverse, if necessary."
'"Art. 22. Where by the above rules one of two ships is to
keep out of the way, the other shall keep her course.
"Art. 23. In obeying and construing these rules, due regard
shall be had to all dangers of navigation, and to any special
circumstances which may render a departure from the above
rules necessary in order to avoid immediate danger.
"Art. 24. Nothing in.these rules shall exonerate any ship,
or the owner, or master, or crew thereof, from the consequences
of any neglect to carry lights or signals, or of any neglect to
keep a proper lookout, or of the neglect of any precaution
which may be required by the ordinary practice of seamen or
.by the special circumstances of the case."
In the present case, therefore, the steam-tug was required to
keep out of the way of the ship, and the ship was required to
keep her course. The tug adopted proper measures, by porting her helm, to avoid the ship, and those measures would
have been effectual if the ship had not changed her course by
starboarding her helm. Finding 14 finds that 21 minutes before
the collision, when the tug and the ship were about one-third of
a mile apart, and the tug bore about one-half a point off the port
bow of the ship, and the ship bore about 1j points off the port
bow of the tug and showed both of her lights to the bark
and her red light to the tug, and the bark bore dead ahead
from the ship, the tug, for the purpose of avoiding the ship,
put her helm hard-a-port and swung to starboard, and that the

THE BLUE JACKET.
Opinion of the Court.

ship immediately thereafter, instead of keeping her course or
putting her helm to port, either of which'she could have done,
and one of which she should have done, and either of which
would have avoided the collision, negligently put her helm
hard-a-starboard, and kept it in that position: until the collision
occurred. It is also found, by finding 18, that if the ship had
kept her course or her helm had been put to port at the time
it was put to starboard, the collision would have been avoided;
by finding 19, that. no special circumstance existed at any time
mentioned, which rendered a change of course on the part of
the ship necessary or excusable; by finding 20, that as soon
as it was possible for those on board of the tug to discover
that the ship had/ put her helm to starboard, everything'was
done on the tug to avoid the collision and lessen the damage;
by finding 21, that up to the time the helm of the ship was
put to starboard no one on board of the tug had any reason to
expect or anticipate any change of course on the part of the
ship, and that after the ship's helm was put to starboard, nothing that the tug could have done would have averted the
collision; by finding 22, that the mate of the tug was a
competent person for that position, and faithfully performed
his duties at all times mentioned in the findings, although he
had no license; by finding 23, that the collision was caused
and all the damage resulting therefrom was occasioned solely
by the negligence, want of skill and improper conduct of the
officers and persons navigating the ship, and not from any
fault, negligence or improper conduct on the part of any person on board of the tug; by finding 24, that no misplacement
or fault of construction in the side lights of the ship contributed to the collision, and that they were at all times
brightly burning; and by finding 25, that, although the tug
had no such lookout as was required by law, that fact in nowise contributed to the collision.
It-is well settled that the absence of a lookout is not material, where the presence of one would not have availed to prevent a collision. In the case of The ffacoockee, 131 U. S. 330,
the collision was between a steamer and a schooner, and the
claim was made that the schooner was in fault in sailing too

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

shorthanded in a fog and having only two men on deck, one
of them forward, charged with the double duties of a lookout
and of blowing the horn, and one astern, at the wheel. It was
not found by the Circuit Court as a fact that the absence of
another lookout contributed to the collision, nor were there
any facts found which could justify that conclusion, either as
fact or law. So far as the findings were concerned, the man
forward properly discharged his double duties. He blew the
fog-horn, and it was heard on board of the steamer; and it
was not found that he did not blow it properly, or that he
could have performed the duties of a lookout better than he
did, or that any different manner of performing th6se duties,
either by him or by an additional lookout, could or would have
made any difference in the result, or that the steamer could
or would have been seen by the schooner any sooner than she
was seen. This court held that, under all the circumstances and
in view of the actual findings, it could not be said that there
was any lack of vigilance on the part of the schooner in the
matter of a lookout; and the cases of The _Farragut,10 Wall.
334; The Fannie, 11 Wall. 238, 243; and The Annie Lindsley, 104 U. S. 185, 191, were cited in support of that view.
In the present case, it is found that the lookout of the tug
first sighted the ship at about two miles distant, and that the
red light of the ship was then seen about thide-tenths of a
point on the port bow of the tug; and it is also found that although the tug had no such lookout as was required by law,
that fact in nowise contributed to the collision.
The provision of article 24 of the act of March 3, 1685, is
that a vessel is not to be exonerated from the consequences of
any neglect to keep a proper lookout. It does not say that a
vessel shall, because of not keeping a proper lookout, be visited
with the consequences of a collision. If the collision does not
result as a consequence of neglecting to keep a proper lookout,
the vessel is not thereby made responsible for the consequences
of the collision, and the exemption of the tug necessarily results from the finding as a fact that the absence of the proper
lookout in nowise contributed to the collision.
As it is found as a fact that no special circumstance at any

THE, BLUE JACKET.
Opinion of the Court.

time existed which rendered a, change of course on the part of
the ship necessary or excusable, under article 23 of the statute,
she cannot haveany benefit from that article. The Maggie J
Smith, 123 U. S. 349, 354.
We think that the keeping on of the tug at the full speed of
two miles an hour by the shore, and her not stopping or reversing her engine until the captain, coming on deck, ordered the
mate to do so, was not a fault on the part of the tug. Know"ing that the ship was a sailing vessel, from her showing to the
tug only her red light and no whitedight, and further knowing
that it was the duty of the tug to avoid the ship and of the
ship to keep her course, and supposing that the ship would
keep her course, and the tug having ported her,helm in discharge of her duty, of avoiding the ship, she naturally kept on
without stopping or reversing, because, under article 18, it was
her duty to slacken her speed, or to stop and reverse, if necessary, only if hel appioach to the ship involved risk of collision.
There was no risk of collision involved until the ship starboarded, which she did only after the tug had hard-a-ported
her helm and had swung to starboard; and then the peril-was
go great and the vessels were such a short distance apart that
the tug may well be considered as having been in extremis.
' By finding 14, it is found that the tug put her helm hard-aport and swung to starboard only 24 minutes before the collision, and when the vessels were about one-third of a mile
apart. They were approaching each other at the rate of about
ten miles an hour, the tug going about two miles an houi by
the land, and the ship about eight miles an hour by the land.
The approach was at the rate of a mile in about. six minutes. As the tug began to port only 2-- minutes before the
collision, and had to get her helm hard-a-port and swing to
starboard, before the ship starboarded, then got her helm
hard-a-starboard, and then changed her course so materially
as to attract the attention of the tug, the fair deduction from
the findings is that the tug was in the situation of in extremis
before the time when it became her duty to stop and reverse.
It was the fault of the ship in changing her course, that put
the tug in that situation, and any error of judgment at that

OCTOBER TERMI1 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

time, in the particular mentioned, cannot be imputed as a fault
to the tug. The Benefactor, 102 U. S. 216; The Elizabeth
Jones, 112 U. S. 514, 526, and cases there cited; The -Jlaggie
J. Smith, 123 U. S. 349.
As was-held in The Bywell Castle, 4 Prob. Div. 219, "where
one ship has, by wrong manceuvres, placed another ship in a
position of extreme danger, that other ship will not be held
to blame if she has done something wrong, and has not
been manceuvred with perfect skill and presence of mind."
It is not found as a fact that the collision would have been
avoided or mitigated if the tug had stopped and reversed
when she discovered that the ship had put her helm hard-astarboard and changed her course. On the contrary, finding
21 says that after the ship's helm was put to starboard, nothing that the tug could have done would have averted the col-'
lision; and finding 20 says that as'soon as it was possible for
those on board of the tug to discover that the ship had put
her helm
i'to
starboard, everything was done on -board of the
tug to avoid the collision and lessen the damage.
We do not think that the decision in the case of The Manitoba, 122 U. S. 97, applies to the present case. That was a
collision between two steam vessels on Lake Superior. The
two vessels saw the white and the green lights of each other,
and only those lights, and continued to approach each other
on nearly parallel courses. When they were about from 1 to
2 miles apart, the Manitoba had the Comet's green light about
three-quarters of a point on her starboard bow, and then starboarded her wheel half-a-point and continued her course without change until just before the collision. In the meantime, the
Comet ported her wheel for the second time'half-a-point, and
t-he twt vessels thus continued to approach each oiher, showing their green and white lights only, until they had come
within from 400 to 500'feet of each other, the Comet being
then from 200 to 300 feet on the starboard side of the Manitoba. If each had kept her course, they would have passed
without colliding; but at that juncture the Comet portbd her
wheel, displayed her red light and suddenly sheered across
the course of The Manitoba, the latter thereupon starboarded

THE BLUE JACKET.

393

Opinion of the Court.

her wheel, and the collision ensued. The combined speed of
the two vessels was about -twenty miles an hour. Neither of
the vessels sounded any signal of the whistle, indicating the
side she intended or desired to take, nor did either of them
reverse her engine or slacken her speed until the collision was
inevitable; but the Manitoba reversed her engine just before
or about the time of the collision. The fact that the two vessels were moving on nearly parallel, opposite, but slightly
converging lines, was manifest to the officers of both for some
considerable time before the Comet ported. The Circuit Court
found as follows ." The relative courses of these vessels, and
the bearing of their lights, and the manifest uncertainty as to
the Comet's intentions, in connection with all the surrounding
'facts, called for the closest watch and the highest degree of
diligence, on the part of both, with reference to the movements of the other; and it behooved those in charge of them
to be prompt in availing themselves of any resource to avoid,
not only a collision, but the risk of such a catastrophe. If the
requisite precautions had been observed by both or by either
of said vessels, the collision, in the opinion of the court, would
not have happened." The Circuit Court found that the Comet
was in fault for putting her wheel hard-a-port and endeavoring to cross on the port side .f the Manitoba; that the Mani.toba was in fault in ignoring the fact that the Comet was
approaching under a port wheel, and that the courses of the
vessels were convergent and involved risk of collision, and in
failing to take proper precaution in time to prevent the collision; and that the Manitoba was further in fault in not indicating her course by her whistle, and in not slowing up, and
in failing to reverse her engine until it was too late to accomplish anything thereby. It apportioned the damages. The
Manitoba appealed to this court because she had been found
to be in fault. As the answer and the cross-libel of the
Manitoba charged as a fault in the Comet that she did not
stop and reverse in approaching the Manitoba, when there
was risk of collision, this court said, that if there was risk of
collision in the 9pproach of the Comet towards the Manitoba,
prior to the sudden sheer of the Comet, it was a risk affecting

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Syllabus.

the Manitoba equally with the Comet, and imposing upon her
the same duties as it imposed on the Comet, of slackening
speed, or, if necessary, stopping and reversing. This court
affirmed the finding, as a conclusion of law, that the Manitoba
was in fault in not indicating her course by her whistle, and
in not slowing up, and in failing to reverse her engine until it
was too late to accomplish anything thereby.
The difference between the case of The 3fanitoba and the
present case involves the vital point, that, in the former, the
question was between two steam vessels, while in the latter, it
is between a steam vessel and a sailing vessel. In the case of
the courses of the two steam vessels were not
The .fanitoba,
such as to make it the duty of the one more than of the other
to avoid the other, or to make it the duty of the one rather
than of the other to keep her course; and there was, in regard
to the courses of both the steam vessels, such risk of collision
that the obligation was upon both to slacken speed, or, if necessary, stop and reverse. But .in the present case, the duty
was wholly on the ship to keep her course, and wholly on the
tug to keep out of the way of the ship; and there was no
duty imposed on the tug to stop and reverse until, as above
shown,, she was in the very jaws of the collision.
The decree of the Supreme Court of the Territory of Washington is
Affirmed, and the case is remanded to the Circuit Court of
the United Statesfor the -Districtof Washington, (Act of
February 22, 1889, c. 180, 25 Stat. 676, 682, 683, § 22,
23,) forfurther proceedings according to law.

WATERMAN v. BANKS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 190. Argued March 7, 8, 1892.-Decided March 28, 1892.

J. S. W. having advanced to his brother 1. W. W. moneys to aid him in developing mines, the title to which was in dispute, and being about to

