CRAWFORD v. NEAL.
Statement of the Case.

O RAWFOIRD v. NEAL.
NEAL v. CI AWFORD.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF -THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF OREGON.
Nos. 186, 278. Argued March 21,1892. - Decded April 18, 1892.

The jurisdiction of a Federal court by reason of diverse citizenship is
not defeated by the mere fact that a transfer of the .plaintiff's interest
was made in order, in part, to enable the purchaser to bring suit in a
court of the United States, provided the transfer was absolute, and the
assignor parted with all his interest for good consideration.
The statutes forbidding the transfer by a debtor of his property with intent
to hinder, delay or defraud creditors do not invafidate a conveyance by
a debtor to a bona fide creditor, with intent to prefer him.
The burden of setting aside a conveyance by a debtor as made with intent
to hinder, delay or defraud creditors is on the attacking creditor; but
where the fraudulent intent on the grantor's part is made out, and the
circumstances are suspicious, then the purchaser must show that he
paid full value; and if this is shown it must then be made to appear
that the purchaser had full knowledge of the fraud.
The findings and conclusions of a master upon conflicting testimony are to
be taken as presumptively .correct, and unless some obvious error In the
application of the law has intervened, or some serious or important mistake has been made in th6 consideration of the evidence, the decree should
stand.
The continued possession by an insolvent debtor of his real estate after the
transfer of it to a creditor by way of preference may be explained by
the surrounding circumstances.
Of two conveyances made by an insolvent debtor at the same time to two
individuals, one may be held to be valid as a preference of a bonafide
creditor, and the other invalid as made with an intent to hinder, delay or
defraud creditors, unless the two transactions are so intermingled as to
make them necessarily but one transaction, in which case both will be
void.

T.E court stated the case as follows :
This-was a bill filed by Charles A. Neal in ,the Circuit Court
of the State of Oregon for the county of Linn, July 1, 1886,
against James H. Foster, John A.- Crawford, William Craw

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

ford, Ashby Pearce, John R. Baltimore, J. L. Liles, E. Walden,
and W. H. Goltra, and subsequently removed, on the application of the complainant, to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Oregon. The bill was in the nature
of a creditor's bill, seeking to set aside certain conveyances of
real (and some personal) property by the defendant James H.
Foster to the defendants John A. Crawford, William Crawford and Ashby Pearce, upon the ground that they were made
to hinder, delay and defraud the complainant and certain of
the defendants, as judgment creditors of the said Foster.
Complainant was a citizen of the State of Illinois and defendants were 1citizens of the, State of Oregon, and complainant
claimed as the assigned of two judgments, the first rendered
in the state circuit court, March 8, 1886, in favor of Sibson,
"Quackenbush & Co., for $14,037.87, with costs and interest,
and the second, rendered in the same court and on the same
day, in favor of W. 0. Noon & Co., for the sum of $1920.35
with interest. The defendants' Goltra, Walden, Liles and Baltimore were also judgmnent creditors of Foster."
Answers and replications having been filed, the cause wasreferred to a master to take testimony and to report his findings of fact and conclusions of law thereon.
The master foundl the various judgments, and -that execution
had been issued and returned unsatisfied upon those in favor
of Sibson Quackenbush & Co. and W. C. Noon & Co.; that
Foster was insolvent on February 6, 1884, and had so continued since that time, and had no property out of which the
judgments of complainant and the other creditors could be
satisfied'; that on February 6, 1881, Foster conveyed to John
A. Crawford certain parcels of real estate frmbered from one
to five, and certain personal property, and to William Crawford another parcel of real-estate known as the "brick store
*property," numbered six, and that on February 7, Foster con•veytd to Ashby Pearce a certain other iparcel numbered seven,
and a small amount of personalty; and that the parties to
these transfers, at the time they were made, agreed upon the
prices of the property, which aggregated $79,000.
"That at the time of the transfer the said several parcels of

CRAWFORD v. NEAL
Statement of the Case.

property, real and personal, so transferred by Foster to J. A.
Crawford, were fairly and reasbnably worthTract I & 2 ........... .................
Cc 3 ...............................
4 .................................
5 ................................
Book accounts ........................
Grain sacks...
......................

$30,000
2,500
500
3,000
.3,000
3,000,

Total ..... ..............................
$42,000
The property conveyed to William Crawford at the
time of the transfer was actually worth ......
. 18,000
The real property conveyed to Ashby Pearce was at
the time of the transfer actually worth .. $3,500
And the personal property ................
700
Total ....................................

4,200
$64,200"

The master further found"XVIII. That in 1867 J. H. and John Foster'were partners in a mercantile business under the firm name of J. ii.
Foster & Co., and in that year bought the Magnolia mill from
Win. Crawford for $16,000, pa;yvig $6000 cash and executing
five notes for $2000 each, of date July 20, 1867. These notes
were secured by a mortgage on the mill property and 'a brick
store, which mortgage was duly recorded.
"That in 1876 J. H. Foster bought out John Foster's interest in the mills and business and assumed all the debts and
liabilities of -J. H. Foster & Co., and thereafter individually
continued the business under the same firm name.
"That the business of the (rawfords with J. H. Foster was,
"for a considerable time, conducted under the name of Crawford Bros., and was transacted by John A. Crawford, who was
the agent and representative of Win. Crawford.
"That on or before the 6th day of February, 1884, J. H.
Foster was owing said J. A. Crawford on notes and accounts

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

for money lent and water rent the sum of $27,733; which was
then due and unpaid, and that at the time said J. A. Crawford was also liable as surety for $16,000, or thereabouts, upon
endorsements which he had made for the accommodation of
said Foster.
"That on said 6th day of February, 1884, said J. A. Crawford, as a part of the consideration for said transfer, executed
and delivered to J. H. Foster his note for $10,000, with the
understanding that said Foster should hold said note as a
security that said Crawford should perform a verbal agree:
ment then made between said J. A. Crawford and said Foster,
to the effect that said Crawford should purchase the wheat of
or satisfy divers persons who held warehouse receipts of said
Foster for wheat stored by them with said Foster in his warehouse, and which wheat Foster had converted to his own use,
to the amount, in all, of about 20,000 bushels, and save said
Foster harmless therefrom.
"That said J. A. Crawford then agreed with said Foster
that, as a part consideration for the transfer of said property,
he would assume and pay the said $16,000 for which he was
security for said Foster as aforesaid.
"That all of said indebtedness of said J. H. Foster to said
J. A. Crawford was at the date of said transfer surrendered
to said Foster and cancelled,-as a part of the consideration for
said property so deeded and transferred as aforesaid, and that
said Crawford has since taken up and cancelled said wheat
receipts and satisfied said note of $10,000, and has since said
6th day of February, 1884, paid said debts on which he was
security for said Foster and caused the sanle'to be cancelled
as to said Foster.
"That the purchase -of said property from said J. H. Foster
by'J. A. Crawford, as 1 afore .id, was made in good faith, and
that full value was paid therefor.
"That the defendant Ashby Pearce was an accommodation
maker only. of the note to J. H. Foster & do. which said
Pearce afterward paid to John Conner; that at the date of
the transfer by J. H. Foster to said Pearce -as aforesaid said
Foster was indebted to Pearce in the amount of said note so

CRAWFORD

. NEAL.

Statement of the Case.

paid by Pearce as surety for Foster; said note was for $5000;
that the purchase of said property by Pearce was in good
faith, and that more than full value was paid therefor.
"That on the said 6th day of February, 1884, said J. H.
Foster was not indebted to William. Crawford; that the mortgage referred to in finding XVIII was prior-to its satisfaction
on the record, which took place on the 31st of July, i88a,
paid in full; that said mortgage was satisfied of record by
Win. Crawford on the last-mentioned data; that no valid consideration for the transfer of the brick block to said Crawford
by-said Foster passed from said Crawford to said Foster; that
said conveyance of said brick building by said Foster to said
Crawford was a voluntary one.
"That since the transfer of said brick building by said
Foster to said Win. Crawford the latter has expended thereon
in permanent improvements some $2000."
And as conclusions. of law the master reported:
"I. That the complainant's bill sh6uld be dismissed as to
defendants Ashby Pearce and John A. Crawford.
"II. That the deed of J. H. Foster to defendant Win.
Crawford is constructively fraudulent and void as against the
complainant and the other creditors of said Foster named in
the pleadings and should be cancelled and set aside."
Exceptions were filed to the master's report by complainant
and by William Crawford.
The case as to Goltra was disposed of adversely to him
upon a cross-bill filed by Foster and the Crawfords, and, as he
did not appeal, requires no further reference. The defendants
Foster, the Crawfords and Pearce, in addition to denying that
any of the conveyances were fraudulent or 'without consideration, or made to hinder, delay or defraud creditors, denied
that the complainant was the real owner of the two judgments
of which he claimed to be the assignee, and averred that they
were transferied to him withohit his knowledge and without
consideration; that said transfers were made for the sole and
only purpose, and with the object and intention, of collusively
giving or attempting to give jurisdiction to the Federaleourt,
and that Sibson, Quackenbush & Co. and W. C.-Nooa-& Co.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for William Crawford and John A. Crawford.

were and htd ever been, since the judgments were rendered,
the real owners thereof, *respectively; and that complainant
had no interest in either of them.
The case was heard upon the bill and answers, the testimony
and the exceptions t6 the master's report, and a decree entered dismissing the bill as to the defendants John A. Crawford and Ashby Pearce, and setting aside the conveyance by
Foster to William Crawford, and directing a sale of the property included in that conveyance and the application of the
proceeds, first, to the satisfaction of the judgments held by
complainant as assignee and the costs and expenses of the
sale, and second, to the satisfaction of other judgments referred to in the pleadings. From this decree Neal and William
Crawford, severally, took appeals to this court.
The opinion of Judge Deady, holding the Circuit Court,
will be found reported in 36 Fed. Rep. 29.
.Xr.Johnf
Crawford.

. hitchell for William Crawford and John A.

The principles of the statute of 13 Eliz. c. 5, have been
incorporated into the Oregon statutes with this modification,
which has also been adopted in most of the States: that is,
that when the question of the validity of a conveyance of
property depends upon its fraudulent character it must be
shown that the grantee participated in the fraud, and the fact
that the grantor alone is guilty is not sufficient to invalidate
the conveyance.
The Oregon statute is taken from the NeW York code and
is a copy of it.
In Stearnsv. Gage, 79 N. Y. 102, and in Parkerv. Conner, 93
N. Y. 118, it was held that when a valuable consideration had
been paid, actual notice on the part of the grantee of the
grantor's fraudulent intent is necessary to avoid the conveyance to .creditors and others. The Supreme Court of Oregon
hold to the same rule. Coolidge v. Heneoky, 11 Oregon, 327.
The Oregon statute as to fraudulent conveyances is in substance similar to, and almost identical in language with the

CRAWFORD v. NEAL
Argument for Neal.

statute of the State of Yirginia on that subject. In Peters v.
Bain, 133 _U. S. 670, 686, this court said: "In controversies

arising under this statute, involving, as they do the rights of
creditors locally and a rule of property, we accept the conclusions of the highest tribunal as controlling. Jafray v.
.MoGdhee, 107 U. S. 361;'Lloyd v. Fulton, 91 U. S. 479; Allen
v. Massey, 17 Wall. 351."
An assignment for the benefit of creditors, preferring unsecured creditors, is not primafaie fraudulent. Kruse v..Prinde, 8 Oregon, 158. Foster had a right to make a preference as
between his creditors. The right to make a preference resulted
from the dominion which the owner has over his property.
It is a part of his proprietotship. .The law has not said he
shall divide his estate rataly among his creditors. It has left
him the discretion to act as he wills, provided onI- he acts
witli honest intent to pay a valid debt, and does not under
cover of such a disposition stipulate for a benefit to himself.
Bidridge v. Phillpson, 58 "Mississippi, 270; Fste v. Gunter,
122 U. S. 4 50, 4:55; --Brooks v. Atarbury, 11 Wheat. 78; .Xruse
v. Prindle,8 Oregon, 158.
A. conveyance upon a valuable consideration cannot be
declared void as to creditors, though made with a, fraudulent
purpose on the part of the vendor, uiless the vendee partici-pates in or had notice of such purpose. Astor v. Wells, 4
Wheat. 466; Worthy v. Coddde/, 76 N. C. 82; Prewitt v. Wilson, 103 U. S. 22.
Fraudulent intent upon the part of the debtor alone is not
*sufficient. Bonser v. Xiller, 5 Oregon, 110; Prewit4 v. Wilson, 103 U. S. 22.
Zr." . E. S. Wood (with whom was .Ar. George i. WMliams on the brief) for Neal.
I. Tohn Crawford was practically and in equity a cograntee
with his brother William Crawford; and if the conveyance to
William Crawford is void, then the whole transaction is void:
for a conveyance to i grantee for a valid consideration is void
if the grantee kmew that a conveyance to a cogranted'was

.502

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Neal.

fraudulent and fictitious. Swartz v. Hazlett, 8 California, 118;
Lewis v. Caperton, 8 Gratt. 148.
II. A conveyance founded in part upon a fraudulent consideration will not be sustained to the extent of the honest
consideration, but is void altogether. Baldwin v. Short, 26
N. E. Rep. 928.
III. A conveyance made to secure part of the property to
the grantee upon a valid consideratidn, but to cover in the
residue for the grantor, is void as to the whole. Swin.ford v.
Rogers, 23 California, 233; Chme v. Walker, 26 Maine, 555;
Rice v. Cunningham, 116 Mass. 466; facomber v. Peck, 39
Iowa, 351.:
IV. It is immaterial whether the property is parcelled out
in one or several deeds and whether the papers are executed
on the same day or not. If done to effect the same design, all
iuesey v. Yoyes,-26
must be regarded as one transaction.
8
Iowa, 96; Berry v.
Lehndor.,
Vermont, 462; Burrows v.
Cutts, 42 Maine, 445; Spaulding v. Strang, 38 N. Y. 9.
V. A conveyance in fraud of the grantor's creditors is void
although the grantee pays the full value if he participated in
the fiaudulent purpose. Gardinierv. Otis, 13 Wisconsin, 460.
VI. Where the grantor remains in possession and continues
to manage the property as before, his declarations made in
connection therewith are admissible. Redjfeld v. Buck, 35
Connecticut, 328.
VII. Possession is part of the res ges e; and where the
grantor remains in possession, his acts and declarations are
competent evidence explanatory of them. United States v.
Griswold, 7 Sawyer, 296.
When the bonafides of a transfer is attacked by creditors,
and some evidence has been given tending to show a common
design between the grantor and the grantee to defraud, declarations of the grantor after the transfer are admissible.
Haortman v. -Diller,62 Penn. St. 37; Deakers,v. Yenple, 41
Penn. St. 234.
Possession and management after sale are badges of fraud.
Lukins v. Aird, 6 Wall. 7.8; Callan v. Statham, 23 How. 477.
Where the grantor, being greatly in debt, with suit threaten-

CRAWFORD v. NEAL.
opinion of the Court.

ing, conveyed his land for a consideration about one-half its
value, and continued in possession the same as before, the
conveyance was held to be void as against creditors. .Hudgins
v. Kemp, 20 Row. 45.
Iaf.

CHIEF JusTIcE FULLEi, after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
If the transfers of the judgments 'to the complainant were
fictitious, the plaintiffs therein continuing to be the real parties in interest, and the complainant but a nominal or color:
able party, his name being used only for the purpose of
jurisdiction, then the objection to the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court would be well taken; but if the transfers were
absolute and the judgment creditors parted with all their interest for good consideration, then the mere fact that one of
the motives of the purchase nay have been to enable the furchaser to bring suit in theiUnited States court, would not besufficient to defeat the jurisdiction. -McDonaldv. Smalley, 1
Pet. 620; Barneyv. Baltimore,6 Wall. 280; Williams v. Nottawa, 104 U. S. 209; 3fanufacturing Co. v. Bradley, 105 U. S.
175, 180; .De Laveaga v. Williams, 5 Sawyer, 573, per Mr.
Justice Field.
It was established by the testimony of members of the firm
of Sibson, Quackenbush & Co..that their judgment was sold
to Neal for his note for $5000; that the firm was not concerned in any way in the result of the pending.litigation, and
had parted with its entire interest in the. judgment; and by
the testimony of a member of the firm of W. C. Noon & Co.
that that firm sold its judgment to Neal for $500, absolutely
and- without condition. The plaintiffs in these judgments
retained no interest whatever thereL..
But it is said that Neal- knew nothing about the transaction; that the alleged consideration was never paid; and that
the state courts had previ6usly held the conveyances valid,
thus justifying the inference that the purchase was in pursuance of a collusive attempt to relitigate the question in the

United Stated courts.
VOL. cxLuv-38

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

It is true that the averments of the cross-bill filed against
Goltra and admitted by his demurrer, show that Goltra attacked the validity of the conveyances in the state Circuit
Court; that the conveyances were sustained; and that his
appeal to the Supreme Court was dismissed; but, as already
said, the mere existence of the wish to bring suit in the United
States court, as a motive for the purchase of these judgments,
is not enough if the purchase was in fact made.
The record discloses that Neal was interested in milling
property in Oregon, in which W. M. Ladd and his father, of
the firm of Ladd & Tilton, were also interested; that one
Wilcox managed the property for them; that Sibson, Quackenbush & Co. were successors of Sibson, Church & Co., the
membership of the firms being the same, except that Church
had retired; that Sibson, Church & Co. were largely indebted
to Ladd & Tilton, and the liquidation'of its affairs was being
conducted by Sibson, Quackenbush & Co., to whom all the
assets had passed, Wilcox managing the liquidation on behalf
of the Ladds; that Sibson, Church & Co. had been the agents
of the old mill; and that Sibson, Quackenbush & Co. were
the agents of the new, in which Neal had an ownership. That
W. M. Ladd was the attorney in fact of Neal, and Wilcox the
managing man for Neal as well as the Ladds.. That Wilcox
purchased the judgments, and paid for them, respectively, by
a note for $5000, and one for $500, signed for Neal by Ladd,
and that the $5000 note was turned in by Sibson, Quackenbush & Co. on the indebtedness of Sibson, Church & Co., and
so paid; and that the $500 was paid at once by Ladd & Tilton. Wilcox, who conducted the business in respect of these
purchases, was not called as a witness by defendants Crawfords and Pearce, although it clearly appeared that he could
have given all the details. The fair inference is that what
was done was within the powers conferred by Neal on Ladd
and Wilcoxy and as the sales were absolute, and without any
trust or reservation in favor of the judgment creditors, the
.,conclusion of the Circuit Court on this branch of the case was
manifestly right.
-Testatute of 13 Eliz. c. 5 has been in the main re6nacted

CRAWFORD v. NLEAL.
Opinion of the Court.

in the ;various States of the Union. In Oregon it is provided
that: "C
Every conveyance or assignment in writing or otherwise of any estate or interest in lands or in goods or things in
action, or of any rents or profits issuing therefrom, and every
charge upon lands, goods or things in action, or upon the
rents or profits thereof, made with the intent to hinder, delay
or defraud creditors or other persons of their lawful suits,
damages, forfeitures, debts or demands, and every bond or
other evidence of debt given, suit commenced, decree or judgment suffered, with the like intent, as against the persons so
hindered, delayed or defrauded, shall be void." And it is
further provided that the question of fraidulent intent in all
cases arising under that section shall. be "deemed a question
of fact, and not of law," and that the section CCshall not be
construed in any manner to affect or impair the title of a purchaser for a valuable consideration', unless it shall appear that
such purchaser had previous notice of the fraudulent intent of
his immediate grantor, or of the fraud rendering void the title
of such grantor." 2 Hill's Ann. Laws Oregon, 1887, pp. 1373,
1374, § 3059, 3062, 3063.
A collusive transfer, placing the property of a debtor out of
the reach of his creditors, while securing to him its beneficial
enjoyment, is not to be tolerated; yet an insolvent debtor may
prefer a creditor, even though the latter has knowledge of
such insolvency. The effect of the preference may be to
delay his other creditors, but if the transaction is in good faith
and made with the intention of paying the preferred debt,
and without any secret trust, the conveyance by which the
preference is effected is not fraudulent. And the extinguish:
ment of an exis'ting indebtedness is a valuable consideration
for a purchase made in good faith.
The burden is upon the attacking creditor, but where the
fraudulent intent on the grantor's part is made out and the
circumstances are suspicious, the.purchaser must show that he
has paid value, and if he does, it must then appear that the
purchaser had notice of the fraud. These we understand to
be the principles applied by the Supreme Court of Oregon in
passing upon the statute of that State. E&use v. Piinde,8

OCTOBER TERIM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

Oregon,' 158; Lyons v. Leahy, 15 Oregon, 8; Philbric v.
O'Connor, 15 Oregon, 15; lFeber v. Rothchild, 15 Oregon,
385; TFeaver v. Owens, 16 Oregon, 301; Taylor v. Miles, 19
Oregon, 550. And this court accepts the construction given
to such a state statute as controlling. Peters v. Br'in, 133
U. S. 670.
The cause was referred to a master to take testimony therein, "and to report to this court his findings of fact and his
conclusions of law thereon." This he did, and the court, after
a review of the evidence, concurred in his findings and conclusions. Clearly, then, they are to be taken as presumptively
correct, and unless some obvious error has intervened in the
application of the law, or some serious or important mistake
has been made in the consideration of the evidence, the decree
should be permitted to stand. Tilghman v. Proctor, 125 U. S.
136; Kimberly v. Arms, 129 U. S. 512; Evans v. State Bank,
141 U. S. 107.
The master found that John A: Crawford paid on behalf of
Foster not less than $10,000 in satisfaction of the holders of
-warehouse receipts of Foster for wheat stored by them, but
which Foster had converted to his own use; also about $16,000 upon endorsements which he had made for the accommodation of Foster; and further satisfied an indebtedness of
Foster to himself, amounting, on the 6th of February, 1884,
to the sum of $27,737.23; and that this total of $53,737.23
constituted the consideration of the conveyance and transfer
by Foster to him of property reasonably.worth $42,000; and
as to Ashby Pearce, the master found that he was an accommodation endorser for Foster on a note for $5000, which he
was obliged to pay; and that this was the consideration of the
conveyance and transfer to him of property, real and personal,
of the value of $4200.
The learned judge of the Circuit Court stated, in his opinion,
that on the argument it was tacitly conceded that the conveyance to Pearce was made for a full consideration and for no
other purpose than to prefer him to other creditors; and that
concession is, in effect, made here, and, eveh if it were not, the
,evidence admits of no other conclusion.

CRAWFORD v. NEAL.

597

Opinion of the Court.

The Circuit Court also reviewed the evidence as to Foster's
condition on February 6, 1881, and found that he had lost
largely by reason of a decline in flour during the winter, and
was short about 20,000 bushels of wheat, "for which he had
given receipts, on any one of which he was liable at any moment to a criminal prosecution;" that there was no room to
doubt that John A. Crawford was then liable as surety on
Foster's paper for $15,900; "that he afterwards paid the same
as part of the consideration of thb transfer to him ;" that
Crawford paid out from $10,000 to $15,000, say $12,500, in
settling with farmers and others holding Foster's wheat receipts for 19,541 bushels, that the latter had used; and that in
addition Crawford, as part of the consideration for the purchase, applied an open account' of $5808 due .from Foster to
hh; and.so that Crawford unquestionably paid a consider,
tion of $34,113 for the property, which 'was "more than it
would have probably sold for at sheriff's sale, and more than
three-fourths of the value that the master places upon it, which
in my judgment is its full market value."
But the master included in the total paid certain notes of
Foster held by Crawford, amounting to $16,930, -ith interest,
and while the Circuit Judge held that the evidence, in respect
of these notes and their being cancelled as part payment for
the property was conflicting, he nevertheless thought that the
weight of the evidence sustained the result arrived at by
the master. The contention of complainant was that while the
notes were paid at some time, this .wasbefore the transfer of
the property, when they were fiaudulently revived for the
purpose of being made a part of the consideration thereof .
but upon the whole, the judgment of the court was that the
"Foster notes in question were existing obligations between
the parties at the date of the transfer, and that, whether thig
be so or not, the purchase was made in good faith and for a
valuable and even adequate consideration." We concur that
the consideration was not in any view so inadequate as to raise
an inference of bad faith, and that ,itprobably exceeded the'
value of the property conveyed.
Some stress is laid in argument upon the possession by. Fos-

OCTOBER TERIV,

1891.

Opinion of the Court.

ter, after the transfer, of the mill and his residence. It is not
contended that such possession of realty rendered the transaction fraudulent per se, (Phettiplace v. Sayles, 4 Mason, 312,
24 ,) but that it afforded persuasive evidence of fraud in fdct.
But, as the court remarks, the surrounding circumstances
-nust be taken into account. The two men were friends of
many years standing. They had grown old together, and
when Foster failed, and transferred a large part of his property to Crawford, his principal creditor, there was nothing
unreasonable in the employment of the former by the latter
to run the mill at seventy-five dollars a month and the use of
the dwelling. This is what was done according to the testimony, and the explanation was properly held to be satisfactory.
And so as to Foster's declarations. Expressions of hope of
recovery indulged in by a person reduced to poverty by large
losses must be taken with many grains of allowance, and those
testified to here as indicative of the retention of an a'ctual
interest in the property fall short of overcoming the explicit
evidence to the contrary.
The case as to William Crawford is. of much more difficulty.
We cannot accept the view of complainant's counsel that it
is impossible to hold the conveyance to William Crawford
invalid without also setting aside that to John A. 'Undoubtedly the rule is that a transaction void -inpart for fraud in
fact is entirely void, but here the transactions were so distinct
that while the circumstandes surrounding the one should be
given due weight so far as they may bear upon the other, a
result adverse to the validity of the one does not necessarily
compel a like result as to the other. The instruments were
several ; the grantees, the property cofiveyed, the alleged consideration, were all different and disconnected; and .although
John A. acted for his brother in obtaining the deed, yet we
are not prepared to hold that error was committed in declin;
ing to -treat the conveyances as constituting parts of a single
transaction and rendering John A. a cograntee withI William.
The case as to William turned upon the existence, unpaid,

CRAWFORD v. NEAL.
Opinion of the Court.

of certain notes against Foster, which he claimed were outstanding on the 6th of February, 1884, and surrendered as
the consideration for the conveyance of the "brick store
property."
The master found that in 1867 William Crawford sold the
Magnolia mill ,property to J. A. and John Foster for $16,000,
receiving $6000 in cash and taking five promissory notes of
the Fosters for $200 each, bearing date July 20, 1867, maturing in one, two, three, four and five years after date, respectively, and secured by a mortgage on the mill and other
property duly executed and recorded; that it was contended
on behalf of William Crawford that these notes were taken up
by J. H. Foster's notes, six in number, for $16,000, bearing
date July 20, 1883, five of them for $2000 each, payable in
one,.two, three, four and five years after date, and one for,
$6000 payable in one year after date, which- notes were produced and put in evidence. That the mortgage was cancelled
of record by Crawford on July 31, 1883. That in .876, J. H. .
Foster bought the interest of his brother John in the business
and property of J. H. Foster & Co., and assumed all. the liabilities of the late firm, this being four years after the maturity of the last of the five notes given for the mill by the two
Fosters. That during all these years Foster was doing a
lucrative busindss and was expending considerable sums in the
improvement and development of his mill property, and in
embarking in new ventures. That in 1876 Foster paid large
sums to John A. Crawford in money and by transfer of notes
of*other people. And the master concluded that the probabilities were strong that John Foster would have insisted upon
the taking up of the notes either by payment or the substitution of new notes in 1876 when J. H. Foster bought him out;
and that William Crawford -would not, while J. H. Foster was
doing so large a business and paying over so much money,
allow these original notes to run until the interest amounted
to three-fifths of the principal. But aside from the probability that these notes were paid long before the satisfaction of
the mortgage, the master referred to the positive testim6ny
that upon the passage of the law known as the mortgage ta

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

law, which went into operation in 1883, the then county clerk
of Linn County called the attention of William Crawford to
the fact that the records disclosed an unsatisfied mortgage in
his favor against Foster, and asked him to call and see about
it, which Crawford did, and, expressing surprise that the
mortgage was still on the record and remarking that it had
been paid off several years before, cancelled it; also to the
evidence of a banker in Albany that in 1878"or 1879 his attention was called to the. fact that this mortgage was unsatisfied
of record, and he asked Foster in relation to it, and was told
by him that the mortgage was paid; also to the sworn return
to the assessor of taxes made by William Crawford in 1881,
The master also
giving his notes as aggregating $5000.
commented on the unreasonable character of the inference
that Crawford would cancel a valid mortgage on good property by taking unsecured notes therefor, especially in view of
the fact that his debtor would not pay his interest, and in
view of the further fact that Foster already owed John A.
Crawford an amount which, with William's claim, approximated the value of Foster's entire estate.
The master further found that the attempt to explain away
the testimony and circumstances to which he had referred,
on the theory that Crawford was seeking to avoid taxation,
and had made an agreement with Foster that he would pay
the taxes on the unsecured notes if Crawford would satisfy
the mortgage by taking them, was without weight, for it was
just as easy for Foster to pay the taxes on the mortgage as
upon the notes.
The Circuit Court discussed the evidence at length, and
considered the testimony of William Crawford that the first
series of notes were exchanged for the second series, and that
the latter were unpaid, when, at his brother's suggestion, William gave them to him for the purpose of purchasing the property then conveyed to William by Foster, as improbable in
all its- essential featires. Judge Deady rehearsed the testimony of the various witnesses and pointed out that it overcame that of William, and John A., and Foster, and dwelt
upon the improbability that Foster, who between the giving

MEYERHEI f v. ROBERTSON.
Syllabus.

of the original notes in 1867 and the transfer in 1884 had
expended $40,000 on the mill property, had built the brick
block in question, which cost probably not less than $12,000,
his dwelling-house, and his share of the Albany water works,
would allow a mortgage to secure a debt of $10,000 to remain
on his mill for seventeen years; and that Crawford would
permit the unpaid interest on such debt to accumulate to
$6000, and then take a note for the amount without interest
or security. And he expressed dissatisfaction with the explanation as to the cancellation of the mortgage, that it was done
to avoid the operation of the mortgage tax law of 1882; and
held that the decided weight of the evidence supported the
conclusion that the mill notes were paid before the conveyance'to William Crawford was made, and that therefore that
conveyance was without consideration and fraudulent against
the creditors of Foster.
We have patiently examined the evidence contained in the
record, and it is impossible for us to reverse the decree for
error or mistake in the conclusions of the master and the.
court, depending, as they do, upon the weighing of conflicting
testimony, and entitled, as they are, to every reasonable
presumption in their favor.
The decree must be
Afflrnmed,.

NEYERHE1M v. ROBERTSON.
ERROR TO THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 279. Argued April 5,6, 1892.-Decided April 18,1892.

Laces made by machinery out of linen thread were imported in 1881 and
1882, and charged with duty at 40 per cent ad valorem, as "manufactures
of flax, or of which flax shall be the component material of chief value,
not otherwise proyided for," under Schedule C of § 2504 of the Revised
The importers claimed that they were chargeable
Statutes (p. 462).
with a duty of only 30 per cent ad valorem, as "thread lace," under the
same schedule (p. 463). Held, that, as the evidence clearly showed that

