HARTFORD LIFE INS, CO. v. U.NSELL.
Statement of the Case.

HARTFORD LIFE ANNUITY INSURANCE COMPANY v. UNSELL.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
No. 224. Submitted March 23, 1892.-Decided April 4, 1892.
In an action to recover on a policy of lif& insurance, error in admitting
evidence as to the mental and physical condition of the assured in his
last days, when an overdue premium was paid and received, .is held to be
cured by the charge of the court that the only question was whether
there had been a waiver by the insurer, and that it was immaterial
whether the assured was or was not ill at that time.
As an action could not have been maintained against the insurer without
offer to pay overdue premiums, evidence of such offer was properly
admitted.
When the charge contains all that need be' submitted to the jury on the.
issues, it is no error to refuse further requests to charge.
A life insurance company whose policy provides for the payment of
premiums at stated times and further that the holder " agrees and
accepts the same upon the express condition that if either the monthly
dues," etc., "are not paid to said company on the day due, then this
certificate shall be null and void and of no effect, and no person shall be
entitled to damages or the recovery of any moneys paid for protection
while the certificate was in force" may nevertheless by its whole course
of dealing with the assured, and by accepting payments of overdue sums
without inquiries as to his health, give him a right to believe that the
question of his health would not be considered, and that the company
would be willing to take his money shortly after it had become due
without inquiry as to his health, and such a course of dealing may
amount to a waiver of the conditions of forfeiture.
Courts do not favor forfeitures; but will nevertheless enforce them whel
the party by whoie default they are incurred cannot show good groundr
in the conduct of the other party on which to base a reasonable excuse
for the default.
If, in a case where the evidence warranted a request for a peremptory instruction.to find. for the defendant, no request for such instruction was made,
it cannot be made a ground of reversal that the issues of fact were submitted to the jury.

TIE court stated the case as follows:

This'action was brought upon five certificates of membership, in the nature of policies of life insurance, issued by the

OCTOBER TER]T 1891.
Statement of the Case.

plaintiff in error to E. J. Unsell, the deceased husband of i he
defendant in error, who was the plaintiff below, numbered
24981 to .24985, inclusive, dated September 27, 1881, and
each for the sum of $1000; also, upon a similar certificate,
numbered 52143, for the sum of $5000, dated July 10, 1882.
The charge of the court at the first trial will be found in
32 Ped. Rep. 443.
The petition alleged that the assured died December 31,
1885, having performed all the conditions of the policies on
his part to be kept and performe.
The answer denied that,
the assured died December 31, 1885, nd alleged that his death
occurred on January 31, 1886. It als6 alleged that none of
the certificates were in force at the latter date by reason of
the tact that the dues payable by the assured on the first day
of January, 1886, were not paid at any time prior to his death;
consequently the certificates of insurance ceased to be of any
force or effect.
To the answer setting up this defence the plaintiff replied:
"She admits that her husband, Elias J. Unsell, died January 31, 1886, and not December 31, 1885, as through clerical
error was averred in the petition. Further replying, she
denies that the said Elias J. Unsell failed to pay the monthly
dues for the month of January, 1886, as averred in the answer,
but avers the same were paid. And for further reply this
plaintiff says that for several months before his death the said
Elias J. Unsell was in such agony and pain of body as to
seriously affect his -mind and render him unfit for attention to
any business; that in consequence thereof, said Unsell lost his
memory and the knowledge of all his business affairs, but was
fully conscious that he was about to die. That in December,
1885, and while he was so under disability and possessed of a
consciousness of his approaching death, he informed plaintiff
and his friends that he had paid up all that was due by him
to the defendant; that plaintiff supposed and yet believes
such to be the fact; that during the whole of the month of
December, 1885, said Elias J.,Unsell was at home confined to
his bed; that he never received any notice, or had any knowledge that anything was due on any of said certificates, nor

HARTFORD LIFE ,INS. CO' v. UNSELL.

4111'

Statement of the Case.

had this plaintiff, or any of his friends,, such knowledge until
on or about January 26, 1886, when a notice was received
through the mail from defendant that dues from January 1,
1886, were in arrears. ' That she at once, for said Elias J. Unsell, forwarded to defendant the sum of $5, to pay dues for
the months of January and February, 1886, which -sum was
duly received by defendant and was kept by it and not. returned until after defendant had: learned of the death of said'
Elias J. Unsell.
"And for further reply, plaintiff says that defendant is aid
ought of right to be estopped from now setting up the alleged
failure to pay said dues in advance as any defende for she
avers that during the whole time said UAsell has been the
.owner of certificates, in the defendant,company, said defendant
has without objection received from him the monthly dues
long after the date on which by the terms of the contract
they were.payable, and had thereby led said Unsell to believe
that the payment in advance was not essential and had waived
the payment thereof in advance."
The material conditions of insurance under the several certificates were as follows:
"Of payments. The person to whom this certificate is
issued agrees to pay to said company three dollars per annum,
for expenses, on the first day of the month after date of issue,
and at every anniversary thereafter, so longas this certificate
shall remain in force; or by monthly or other pro 'ata install-'
ments of the sam- in advance for periods of less than dne
year.
"Condition of acceptance. The holder of this certifictte
further agrees and accepts, the Same upon -the express condition that if either the monthly dues, assessments or The pay,ment of the ten dollars toward the safety fund, as hereinbefore-required, are not paid to said company on the day due,
then this certificate shall be null and void and of no effect,
and no person shall -be entitled, to damages or the recovery of
any moneys paid for protectiQn while the certificate was in,
force, either from saiia :company or the trustee of the safety
fund."

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

It appeared in evidence that the company mailed at Hartford, January 21, 1886, a postal card as follows: "Hartford
Life and Annuity Insurance Company. Reinstatement account. Elias J. Unsell, 308 North Commercial Street, St.
Louis, Missouri. Certificates numbers 24981 to 24986 and
, dues
52143. Payments are in arrears for assessments
from January to May, $5. Jemorandum: This should be
returned when remittance is made; also accompanying health
certificate signed by the member. Reinstatement cannot be
made without proper warrant that the member is alive and in
good health." This card had on it the following blank form
of health certificate: "I hereby warrant and declare that
since the date of such certificate I have sustained no personal
injury, nor been afflicted with anr disease of a serious nature.
That my habits are temperate now, and I am in a sound condition and good health, and I hereby apply to be reinstated in
day of
thisconsideration thereof. Dated 188-."
The plaintiff testified that she received the above postal
card on the 28th of January, 1886, and, on that day, addressed
and mailed to the defendant's secretary at Hartford a letter
as follows: "Enclosed please find $5, dues on my husband's
policy 24981 to 24985, and 52143, from January 1, 1886." This
letter was received by the defendant February 1, 1886.
On the 3d day of February, 1886, the plaintiff received from
the defendant this postal card: "Hartford Life and Annuity
Insurance Company. Reinstatement account. Elias J. Unsell,
308 North Commercial Street, St. Louis, Missouri. Certificate
I
24981. Payments in arrears, nothing. Assessmeiit No.
, dues from January 1 to March
installment on deposit
1, 1886, $7.50. Total payable at this date, $7.50. Assessment
No. 30, for $45, will be due and payable March 1, 1886, if
reinstatement is made. .Xenwran.dum: This should be returned when remittance is made, also accompanying health
certificate signed by member. Reinstatement cannot be made
without proof that the person is living and in good health."
This notice was mailed February 1, 1886, and had upon it a
blank health certificate like the one on the previous postal card.

HARTFORD LIFE INS. CO. v. UNSELL.
Statement of the Case.

Under date of Febriary 8, 1886, the.plaintiff wrote to the
company as follows: "My husband, Elias J. Unsell, insured
in you-r company under policy 24981 to 52143, died on Sunday,
January 31. Please send me blank proofs of loss that I may
have the same properly executed." The defendant, before
receiving this letter, wrote to the plaintiff, under date of February 9, as follows: "We have just received information from
our St. Louis agent, that the decease of your husband, Mr. E.
J. Unsell, has taken place, and it being impossible in consequence that the membership issued by this company upon his
life be reinstated by the furnishing of health certificate, for
which we asked on February 1st inst., such health certificate
being asked for because of the lapse of membership on January 1st last, we have to return you herewith $5.00, the same
being the tender of your arrears made to us under date of
January 28th, and which was unacceptable as notified to you,
until our conditions have been complied with."
Evidence was introduced to show the course of business between the assured and the company during the whole period
covered by the certificates, in respect to the payment of dues
after the date fixed in the contracts of insurance.
The defendant asked the court to instruct the jury as
follows:
" The court charges the jury that if they believe from the.
evidence that it was not because of a supposition that prompt
payment of dues, payable January, 1886, would not be required, that such payment was not made, but because of the
sickness or mental disability of the assured, then they will
find for the defendant.
"The court charges the jury that the defendant was not required, by the terms of the certificates sued upon, to give the.
assured notice of the time when his dues were, payable. He
was bound to know when such dues were payable and make
his payments according to the terms and requirements of the
certificates.
"The court charges the jury that they cannot find, from
mere isolated instances of indulgence to the assured, that the
defendant pursued- such a course of business with him as led

'OCTOBER

TERM, 1891.

Argument for Plaintiff in IError.

him to believe that the defendant would not insist upon payment of dues, stipulated for and required in the policies, or
certificates of membership.
"The course of business, in regard to time of payment, must
have'been general and uniform and such as would enable the
jury to say that it was the settled pradtice in this regard,
adopted by the defendant as to the assured."
The court refused to so charge the jury, and the defendant
"duly excepted."
The jury having been charged by the court returned a verdict in favor of the plaintiff for the amount sued for, and judgment was entered against the company for $10,851.66. A
motion for new trial was overruled.
Mr. Chester -. Erum for plaintiff in error.
I. Under a policy of life insurance, which requires payment
of a premium on a day certain and specified, it is immaterial
what was the mental or physical condition of the assured on
such day. That he was ick will not excuse non-payment.
f. Y. Life ns. Co. v. Statham, 93 U. S. 24; lein v. In&urance Co., 104 U. S. 88; Thompson v. Insurance Co., 104 U. S.
252, 257. Hence the trial court erred in admitting evidence,
against the objection of the defendant, in regard to the mental
and physical condition of the assured during the last month of
his life.
IL Having erroneously permitted inquiry as to the mental
and physical condition of the assured, at the time when his
premium fell due and he failed to pay, it was the manifest
duty of the trial -court to leave it to the jur.y to determine:
(a), Whether the failure to pay the premium resulted from the
mental or physical incapacity of the assured at the time which
would be no excuse for non-payment, or, (6), Whether such
failure to pay the premium resulted from a reliance in a supposed waiver by the company of the -condition requiring payment upon the day when due or within four days thereafter
which reliance, on the theory of the court, might be, an
excuse for such non-payment.

HARTFORD LIFE INS. CO, v. UNSELL.
Argument for rlaintiff in Error.

Hence the propriety of. the instruction asked by the defendant in regard to this phase of the case. For, if the assured
did not pay, merely because he was sick; the jury ought to
have been told to retutn a verdict for the defendant. If he
did not pay because he supposed the condition had been
waived, and the course of conduct of the defendant had been
such as to legally justify such conclusion, then the plaintiff was
entitled to a verdict. But the defendant was entitled to have
the question of fact so left with the juryas to afford an opportunity for them to say, upon what dircumstances depended the
failure to pay the premium within the time stipulated fot its
payment.
HI. The defendant was entitled to the instruction refused
by the court below, which declared that it was not required,
by the terms of the certificate sued -upon, to give the assured
notice of the time when his dues or premiums were payabl.
Thompson v. Insurance Co., 104: U. S. 252, 258; Insurance Co.
v. .Mowry, 96 U. S. 544.
IV. There was no evidence which justified submission to
the jury of the question of waiver. The defendant in error
was permitted to try her case upon the theory that by, its
course of conduct, with reference to payment of dues, the
plaintiff in error had waived the requirement of prompt payment. It is true, that a party always has the option to waive
a condition or stipulation made in his favor. Equally true,
that forfeitures are not favored in the law. But to create a
waiver of conditions on which forfeiture may be claimed, there
must have been some agreement, some declaration, some
course of action evidencing an abandonment or withdrawal'f
such conditions. Thompson v. Insurance Co., 104: U. S. 252,
259.
The condition of insurance in the present certificate is: "The
holder of this certificate further agrees and accepts the same.
upon the express condition that if either the monthly dues,
assessments or the payment toward the safety fund, as hereinbefore required, are not paid to said company on 'the day
when due, then this certificate shall be null and void." To
grant indulgence as to such payment upon one occasion, or

OCTOBER TERI,

1891.

Opinion of the Court.

upon a series of occasions, does not prohibit the company
from insisting upon the condition on subsequent occasions.
.Mut. Ben. Life Assn. v. Ruse, 8 Georgia, 534; Winnesheik
Ins. Co. v. Holzgrafe, 53 Illinois, 516; Wood v. Poughkeepsie
1-ns. Co., 32 N. Y. 619; Baker v. Uinion 3ut. Life Ins. Co.,
43 N. Y. 283; iMowry v. Home Ins. Co., 9 R. I. 346; Thornson v. insurance Co., 104 U. S. 252.
In fact the whole theory upon which the plaintiff was permitted to y her case was repudiated by this court in Thornson v. Inc aranee Co., ubi sup.
V. The verdict was wholly against the evidence, and the
trial court ought to have set it aside on that ground. Improvement Co. v. Mfunson, 14 Wall. 442; Pleasants v. Fant,
22 Wall. 116; Herbert v. Butler, 91 U. S. 319; Bowditch v.
Boston, 101 U. S. 16; Griggs v. Houston, 104 U. S. 553;
Randall v. Balt. & Ohio Railroad, 109 U. S. 478; Baylis v.
Travellers' ins. Co., 113 U. S. 316; Conn. _Xut. Zi/e Ins. Co. v.
Iathrop, 111 U. S. 612. These cases hold that when a verdict would be set aside as being against the evidence, the
court ought to direct a verdict. A fortiori is it the duty of
a trial court to set aside a verdict, where it is wholly against
the evidence.
Mr. George D. Reynolds for defendant in error.
MR. JusTicE

HARLAN,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
1. The court, against the objections of the defendant, permitted the plaintiff, testifying-as a witness in her own behalf,
to answer the following questions: " How long before his
death had your husband been confined to his house?" "What
was his condition; what was the state of his health, so far as
enabling him to continue in business; what effect had it on
his attention to business the month preceding his death?"
"In what condition, mentally and physically, was Mr. Unsell
at the receipt of that notice ?" The notice referred to in the
last question was the one frowm the company, mailed at Hart-

HARTFORD LIFE INS. CO. v. UNSELL.
Opinion of the Court.

ford, January 2i, 1886, and which stated that payments were
in arrears for dues from January to May, $5. The admission
as evidence of the answers to these questions is the foundation
of some of the assignments of error in this court. It is sufficient to say that whatever error may have been commaitted by
admitting this evidence was cured by the charge of the court
to the jury; for they were instructed that there was but one
question in the case, namely, as to the alleged waiver by the
company of the terms of the contract in respect to the payment of premiums or dues at the times stipulated, and that it.
was immaterial whether the contract was a stringent one or
not, or whether the assured was sick the last of December or
in the first part of January.
2. There was no error in admitting as evidence the plaintiff's letter of January 28, 1886, transmitting five dollars for
dues from January 1, 1886, on her husband's policies. That
letter was written in reply to defendant's notice by postal
card mailed January 21, 1886. It was competent as showing
that the payment of the amount due January 1, 1886, was, in
fact, made or tendered, though not at the precise time specified in the contract. If the plaintiff had sued on the policies
or certificates without having paid or tendered the amount due
to the company -the non-payment of which, at the time stipulated, was relied on to prove that the policies had become
forfeited- that fact would have been fatal to a right to
recover, in any view of the case. Thompson v. Inmrance Co.,
101 U. S. 252.
3. The refusal of the court tb give the instructions asked by
the defendant is also assigned as error. But such refusal constitutes no ground for reversal, for the reason that the charge
of the court contained everything that need have been said to
the jury upon the single question submitted to them, namely,
whether, under all the circumstances, the defendant waived a
strict compliance with the stipulation in the contract as to the
payment, at the times specified, of the premiums or dues on
the certificates of insurance.
The court, among other things, said to the jury: "Nobody
is bound to enter into any contract. It is perfectly voluntary

OCTOBER TERM,, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

on the part of either side; but when they once enter in, the
terms of the contract,.as expressed in the writing, control. The,
plaintiff comes in, however, and says: 'Conceding that this
contract reads in this way, the company by its conduct waived
the necessity of a strict compliance.' She does not say thQ
company so said to her, or to her husband, ' We do not insist
upon this; we waive this;' but she says that the company so
acted, so conducted itself in its dealings with her husband that
he, as a prudent, reasonable inan, did believe, and had the
right to believe, that payment on the very day specified would
not be insisted upon. Of course we speak by our actions, just
as much as we do by our words; and although there may be
no spoken word, no written word, declaring a, waiver, yet
it may be that a mau by his conduct, his course ,of dealing,
justly and fairly leads the otlier party to believe that he does
n6t care about a strict compliance. That is what this plaintiff
says was the case here; that while the contract reads 'payment must be made on specified days,' yet the company did
not insist on such payment. It did, when her husband was
alive and well, take the dues from him after the time specified
and permit the policy to continue in force, and that-it did so
until he had a right, as a reasonable man, to believe, and did
in fact believe, that that was to be the rule in the future. I
do not think that any particular number of instances, one or
more, can be said as a matter of law to make or not make
a waiver. It is a question for you, as reasonable men, to consider what did the company intend; what would its conduct
So
make a reasonable man believe in reference to it.
far as the matter of notices is concerned, arid the receipt of
notice, it is a matter that need not concern you. The company did not contract to give notice; the policy specifies when
the payments are due."
But the part, and the only part, of the charge to the jury
to which the defendant excepted was in these words: "But
the plaintiff says, that beyond these receipts of money after
the day specified, there were instances in which money was
received without any such notice. Now the question comes
up in respect to that, was there such a continuance of business,

HARTFORD LIFE INS. CO. v. UNSELL.
Opinion of the Court.

was the whole c6urse of business, from the commencement to
the close, such that from this and that, and from all the receipts and all the transactions,.he had a right to believe and
did believe that the question of health even would not be considered, and that it would be willing to take his money shortly
after it had become due without inquiry as to his health?* If
so, that makes a waiver. If the company, by its conduct, led
him, as a reasonable and prudent business man, to believe that
he could make payments a few days after, 'ick or well, it cannot turn around now and say, ' You did not pay at the time.'
I cannot say to you, as a matter of law, that one receipt, after
the time specified, would make a waiver, or that fifty would.
It is not in the numbers. The question is for you to consider
and determine from all of them and from the -whole course of
business, whether, as a prudent business man, he had a right
*to believe that it was immaterial whether he paid on the day
or a few days later. If the course of. conduct was such that
he had a right to believe that he could pay only in good
health, then there was no waiver applicable to the case at bar.
It must have been such a course of conduct as would lead a
reasonably prudent man to believe that the company was
willing to take payment, sick. or well."
The law applicable to the case was stated to the jury with
substantial accuracy. It is a mistake to suppose that the
charge was inconsistent with the principles announced in
Thompson, v. _Znsuranm Company, or in any other case decided by this bourt. In the case of IWuranoe Company v.
Eggleston,"96 U. S. 572,. 577,Mr. Justice Bradley, s*peaking f6r
the court, said, "We have recently, in the case of insurance
Co. v.'. Yo rton, 96 U. S. 231, shown that forfeitures are not favored in the law; and that courts are always prompt to seize
hold of any circumstances that indicate an election to waive-a
forfeiture, or any agreement to do so on which the party has
relied and acted. Any agreement, declaration or course of
action, on the part of an insurance- company; which leads a
party insured honestly to believe that by confoiming thereto
a forfeiture of his policy will not be incurred, followed by due
conformity on his part, will.and ought to estop the conm'pany
VOL. cxLIv-29

'OCTOBER

TERM, 1891.

Opinion of the Court.

from insisting upon the forfeiture, though it might be claimed
under the express letter of the contract. The company is
thereby estopped from enforcing the forfeiture."
These principles were not modified in Thompson v. In
ance Company. Alluding to the claim, in that case, that the
company had, by its conduct, waived the requirement as to
the punctual payment of premiums, Mr. Justice Bradley,
again speaking for the court, said: "The assured had no right,
without some agreement to that effect, to rest on such voluntary indulgence shown on one occasion, or on a number of
occasions, as a ground for claiming it on all occasions." After
observing that a fatal objection to the entire case was, that
payment of the premium note there in question had never
been made or tendered at aity time; that there might possibly
be more plausibility in the plea of former indulgence and days
of grace allowed, if payment had been tendered within the
limited period of such indulgence; and that "a valid excuse
for not paying promptly on the particular day is a different
thing from an excuse for not paying at all," the court proceeded: "Courts do not favor forfeitures, but they cannot
avoid enforcing them when the party by whose default they
are incurred cannot show some good and stable ground in
the conduct of the other party, on which to base a reasonable excuse for the default.

.

.

.

We do not accept the

position that the payment of the annual premium is a conditionppecedent to the continuance of the policy. That is untrue. It is a condition subsequent only, the non-performance
of which may incur a forfeiture of the policy, or may not,
according to the circumstances. It is always open for the
insured to show a waiver of the condition, or a course of conduct on the part of the insurer which gave him just and reasonable ground to infer that a forfeiture would not be exacted.
But it must be a just and reasonable ground, one on which
the insured has a right to rely."
The principles of the above cases were reaffirmed in Pha nix
IAs. Co. v. ]3oster, 106 U. S. 30, 3, et seq.
'The charge was in entire consonance with the settled doc-.
trines of this court as established in the cases to which we

DODGE

. TULLEYS.
Syllabus.

have adverted. The only ground for serious doubt in respect
to the case is, whether the evidence was sufficient in any view
of it to sustain the theory that the defendant had by its course
of business with the assured led him to believe, and that he, in
good faith, believed, that the co-iipany waived, as to him, a
strict performance of the conditions as to the payment of dues
or. premiums, and whether if the court had given a peremptory. instruction to find for the defendant, the verdict and
jud nent would have been disturbed. But we need not consider the case in those aspects; for the defendant assumed
that it would be submitted to the jury, and asked instructidns
touching the several points on which it relied. It did not ask
a peremptory instruction for a verdict in its behalf. It *cannot, therefore, be a ground of reversal that the issues of fact
were submitted to the jury. As no error of law was committed to the prejudice of the defendant, the judgment must be

DODGE v. "TULLEYS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COU'RT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.
io. 222. Argued and submitted March 22, 23, 1892. -Decided

April 11, 1892.

Interest at the rate of 81 per cent in Nebraska is not usurious.
The cestui que trust is not a necessary party to a bill by a trustee to foreclose a mortgage.
A loan was made February 1, and the mortgage and notes were dated on and
bore interest from that day; but as there were sundry incumbrances
part of the money was retained; one sum applied tQ a payment March 4;

another sum March 11; a large proportion of the whole debt was. not
remitted to the borrower until June 8; and on the 8th of October a final
sum of $3000 was sent to the borrower's agent to pay a judgment of*
$2466, which was paid, the agents retaining the balance. On a suit to
enforce the lien of the mortgage a decree was entered for the plaintiff
with an allowance of $1000 as an attorney's fee. HeZd,
(1) That no rebate of interest should be allowed on the payments made
IMarch 4, March 11 and October 8;"
(2) That a rebate should be allowed on the remittance of June 8;
(3) That thd attorney's fee should be reduced t6 $500.

