OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Syllabus.

Bank, 98 U. S. 308, and .cases cited. The, complaint in the
suit had not the common coiznts, and was not broad enough to
reach this point, and to recover the money received by the
city.
Would not the order, if the decision upon the bonds is to
stand, be more in accordance with justice, if it allowed the
defendant in error to amend the complaint and sue for this
money had and received? Amendments are purely. withiin
the discretion of the court in furtherance 'of justice. The
order cuts off the right to apply in the court below to amend,
and therefore it is asked here. It can scarcely be said it is
just for the city to avoid her, bonds and keep the money she
has derived from them too. It would seem but just to modify
the order, at all events, to this extent.
31tr. A. JE Garland,and Xr.H

J..Xay for petitioner.

PnR CuRxI.
It is ordered by the court that leav be
granted to file a petition for rehearing herein, which being
considered,
It is ordered by the court that the judgment entered in this
court on the 28th day of March, 1892, be, and the same is
hereby, vacated and set aside, and a judgment is now this day
entered reversing the judgment of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Western District of Texas, and remanding said cause for further proceedings not inconsistent with
the opinion of this court hereinbefore fied, and the petition
for rehearing is
Denied.

COOSAW MINING COMPANY v. SOUTH CAROLINA.
APPEAL

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF

THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
No. 1448. Argued March 14, 15,1892. -Decided

April 4, 1892.

The statute of the State of South Carolina, passed March 28, 1876, (acts of
1876-6, p. 198,) is capable of being construed either, when taken by itself,
as conferring upon the Coosaw Mining Company the exclusive right of

COOSAW MINING CO. v. SOUTH CAROLINA.

551

Statement of the Case.
digging, mining and removing phosphate rocks for an unlimited period,
so long as it should comply with the terms of the statute, or, when
taken in connection with the act of March 1, 1870, 14 Gen. Stats. So. Car.
381, as conferring such a right only for "the full term of 21 years"
named in the latter act; and as the interpretation should be adopted
which is most favorable to the State, it is Held, that such exclusive right
expired on the termination of the 21 years named in the act of 1870.
Only that which is granted in clear and explicit terms passes by a legislative
grant of property, franchises or privileges in which the government or
the public has an interest.
A court of equity has jurisdiction over a bill filed by a State to prevent
illegal interference with its control of the digging, mining and removing
phosphate rock and phosphate deposits in the bed of a navigable river
within its territories.
THm court stated the case as follows:

This suit.was brought by the appellees, March 23, 1891, in
one of the courts of S6uth Carolina, and, subsequently, on
the petition of the appellant, the defendant below, was removed into the Circuit Court of the United States. 45 Fed.
Rep. 804. Its object was to obtain a decree enjoining the
Coosaw Mining Company, its servants, agents and employ~s,
from claiming any right, title, interest or grant in or to the
phosphate rock and phosphatic deposits in Coosaw River in
that State ; from digging, mining or removing such rock and
deposits in the bed of that river; and from obstructing by
suit or otherwise any agent or other person, acting by authority of the State Board of Phosphate Commissioners, from
digging, mining ahd removing the same.
The appellant claimed, in its answer, to have a contract
with the State by which it acquired an exclusive right for an
indefinite period to occupy, dig, mine and remove such rocks
and deposits in Coosaw River, and that, in violation of the
Constitution of the United States, the obligation of its contract had been impaired by a subsequent act of the legislature.
The decree below, rendered September 16, 1891-the
Chief Justice and Judge Simonton concurring -proceeded
upon the ground that the appellant did have, at one time, and
for a limited period, a contract with th6 State, of the kind
mentioned, but that such period had expired before the insti-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

tution of this suit. South Car'otna v. Ooosaw -3iningCo., 47
Fed. ,Rep. 225. The relief asked was, therefore, granted.
The principal question to be considered depends upon certain legislative enactments relating to phosphate rocks and
phosphatic deposits in the navigable waters of South Carolina.
It is necessary to ascertain the scope of those enactments.
By an act which took effect March 1, 1870, the State granted
to certain named persons and their associates the right, for
the full term of twenty-one years, to dig. mine and remove
phosphate rocks and phosphatic deposits from the beds of the
navigable streams and waters within the jurisdiction of the
State of South Carolina. This grant was made upon the express condition that the grantees pay the State one dollar per
ton for every ton of phosphate rock and phosphatic deposits,
so dug, mined and removed, and five hundred dollars as a
license fee before commencing business under the grant.
The act further provided that before commencing operations
under authority of the act, the grantees, and their associates,
should file, or cause to be filed, in the office of the state auditor, a bond in the sum of fifty thousand dollars, conditioned
that they would make true and faithful returns to that officer,
annually, on or before the first day of October, and oftener,
if required, of the number of tons of -phosphate rocks and
phosphatic deposits dug, mined and removed by them, and
punctually pay to the state treasurer, annually, on the first
day of October, one dollar per ton for every ton of rocks and
deposits by them so dug, mined and removed, during the year
preceding; such bond to be renewed annually, and approved
by the attorney general. 14 Gen. Stats. S. C. p. 381.
The Coosaw Mining Company, it is admitted, succeeded to
all the rights given by this act.
On March 28, 1876, another act was passed entitled "An
act to settle definitely the period at which returns shall be
made of phosphate rocks and phosphatic deposits dug and
mined in the beds of the navigable streams and waters of the
State of South Carolina and the royalty shall be paid thereon,
and also to fix the terms on which this act may be accepted
by the parties named therein." This act is the foundation of

COOSAW MINING CO. v. SOUTH, CAROLINA.

553

Statement of the Case.

the appellant's claim of an exclusive right, for an indefinite
period, to dig, mine and remove phosphate rocks and phosphatic deposits in that part of Coosaw River which it occupies.
Its provisions are, therefore, given in full as follows:
"1Whereas differences have arisen.between the Coosaw Mining Company and, the comptroller general as to the times and
manner in which the said company- shall make their returns
of the number of tons of phosphate rocks and phosphatic deposits dug, mined and removed by them from the. beds of the
navigable streams and waters of the State, and also as to the
times when the. royalty thereon shall be paid; therefore, for
remedy thereof,
"SEOrIon
1. Be t encoed," etc., "That the said Coosaw
Mining Company and all other companies and persons engaged
in digging, mining and removing phosphate rocks and phosphatic deposits from the bed of the navigable streams and
waters of the State shall be, and they are hereby, required,
from and after the passage of this act, to make to the comptroller general true and faithful returns of the nufnber of tons
of phosphate rocks and phosphatic deposits they have so dug,
mined and removed and shipped, or otherwise sent to market,
at the end of every month; and shall punctually pay to the
state treasurer thd royalty already provided by law to' be
paid thereon at the end of every quarter or three months, the
first quarter to commence to run on the first day of March in
the present year.
"SEc. 2. That the, said Coosaw Mining Company, and all
other companies and persons mentioned in the preceding section, shall, within ten days from-the passage of this act, enter
into new bonds, in the penal sums and in the manner and form
already provided by law, but conforming, in their conditions,
to the terms set forth in the said preceding section, and also
pay to the state treasurer the royalty accrued up to the said.
first day of March of the present year. And whereas it is
desirable that the said Coosaw Mining Company, and all other
companies and persons engaged in digging, mining and removing phosphate rock and phosphatic deposits as aforesaid, shall
accept the terms of this act, in order to make it binding on

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

them respectively; and whereas the saial Coosaw Mining Company have already occupied so much of the Coosaw River as
lies opposite to and south of Chisolm's Island, whereon their
works are located, and to the marshes thereof, and have
expended large sinus of money in establishing themselves
thereon with sufficient mining plant for mining and preparing for market the phosphate rocks and phosphatic deposits
of that part of the said Coosaw River; therefore, in consideration thereof,
"Src. 3. That the said Coosaw Mining Company, on ac.
cepting the terms of this act within ten days from the passage thereof, shall thenceforth have the exclusive right to
occupy and dig, mine and remove phosphate rock and phosphatic deposits from all that part of the said Coosaw :River
above mentioned so long as and no longer than they shall
make true and faithful returns of the number of tons thereof
they shall so dig, mine and remove, and ship or otherwise
send to market, and punctually pay the royalty thereon, as
provided in the first section of this act.
"SEc. 4. That all other companies and persons engaged in
digging, mining and removing phosphate rocks and phosphatic deposits as aforesaid under gift and grant of the State
of South Carolina or by authority thereof, who shall accept
the terms of this act within ten days from the passage thereof,
shall thenceforth have the same. exclusive right where they
\have -respectively occupied and established themselves for
,mining purposes, and on the same limitations as are prescribed
in the preceding. section of this act.
"SEc. 5." That all acts and parts of acts inconsistent with

tfis Act. be, and they are hereby, for the purpose of this act,
repealed." Acts of South Carolina, 1875-6, p. 198!
The appellant accepted -the terms of that act, and thereby,
it'is contended, acquired the exclusive right in question. The
att which is supposed to have impaired the obligation of its
contract with the State was that of December 3, 1890, creating a Board of Phosphate Commissioners, consisting of the
goVernwr, attorney general; comptroller general and two individual citizens, charged with the exclusive, control and protec-

COOSAW M:INING C0. 'v.SOUTH CAROLINA.

-555

Statement of the Case.

tion of the rights and interest of the State in the phosphate
rocls and phosphatic deposits in its navigable streams and
marshes. The latter act empowered the Board -if, upon ful,
investigation and examination, they deemed it advisable-to,
require all persons or corporations digging or mining phosphate rock or phosphatic deposits in the navigable streams
and marshes of the State, to pay a royalty not to exceed two
dollars per ton for all or any phosphate rock so dug or mined,
six months' notice being given before raising the royalty above
one dollar.
It also authorized and directed the Board after the first day
of March, 1891, "to take possession and control of the Coosaw
River phosphate territory heretofore occupied by the Coosaw
Mining Company," and to issue licenses to mine and remove
therefrom phosphate rock and phosphatic deposits, in like
manner as was then provided by law for the other navigable
streams and waters of the State; each ton of phosphate rock
or phosphatic deposits, the product of such mining operations,
to be deemed the property of the State until the said parties
paid thereon a royalty, to be fixed by the Board, at not exceeding two dollars per ton on each ton of phosphate rock or
phosphatic deposits dug, mined and removed, and six months'
notice to be given before raising the royalty above one dollar.
It was further provided that if any person interfered with,
obstructed, molested or attempted to interfere with, obstruct,
or molest, the Board, or any one by them authorized or licensed,
in the peaceable possession and occupation for mining purposes of any of the marshes and navigable streams and waters
of the State, it.was authorized, in the name and on behalf of
the State of South Carolina, "to take such measures or proceedings as they may be advised axe proper to enjoin and terminate any such molestation, interference or obstruction, and
place the State, through its agents, the said Board of Phosphate Commissioners, or any -one under them authorized,
in absolute and practicable possession and occupation of the
same."

Other sections of the act made it an offence, punishable by
fine or imprisonment or both, at the discretion of the court,

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Appellant.

for any person or persons to wilfully interfere with, molest
or obstruct, or attempt to interfere with, molest or obstruct,
the State or the -Board of Phosphate Commissioners, or any
one by them authorized or licensed, in the peaceable possession and occupation of any of the said marshes and navigable
streams and waters of the State, "including the said Coosaw
River phosphate territory," or who shall dig or mine, or
attempt to dig or mine, any of the phosphate rock or phosphatic deposits of this State, without a license so to do by the
Board. The Board were authorized and empowered to inquire
into and protect the interests of the State in and to any phosphate deposits or mines, whether in the navigable waters of
the State or in land marshes or other territory owned or
claimed by other parties, and in the proceeds of any such
mines, and to take such action for or in behalf of the State in
regard thereto as they might find necessary or deem proper.
All acts or parts of .acts inconsistent with the provisioiis of
the act of 1890 were repealed.- Acts of South Carolina, 1890,
p. 691.
Mr. Augustine T. Smythe and Ar. Edward McCraddy for
appellant.
I. The courts have no jurisdiction in equity over this case.
The essential prerequisite to the jurisdiction of coiurts of
equity is that there is no adequate remedy at law- otherwise
the constitutional right to a trial by jury would be invaded
and taken away. This fundamental rule has prevailed in England from the inception of equity jurisprudence, and always
in the United States. lipp v. Babin, 19 How. 271; Parker
v. WTinripiseogee _3M fg Co., 2 Black, 545; Grandchute v,
inegar,15 Wall. 355, 373; Lewis v. Cocks, 23 Wall. 466; Ellis
v. Davis, 109 U. S. 485; -Killianv. Ebbingiaus,110 U. S.568;
Fussell v. Gregg, 113 U. S. 550; United- States v. Wilson,
118 U. S.86; Wfhitehead v. Shattuck, 138 U. 8. 146, Scott v.
NJeely, 140 U. S.106; Smyth v. IV. 0. Canal and Banking Co.,
141 U. S.656.
In the case before the court the complainant does not allege
even that it is .inpossession of the property, or that such pos-

COOSAW MINING CO. v. SOUTH CAROLIN A.

557

Argument for Appellant.

session has been disturbed, or that its right has been established. The fact is that the defendants have done nothing
except submit the question at issue to the courts for settlement, and this is now pending, and complainant's right has
never been established otherwise than in this proceeding.
There is, therefore, no equity here.
Equity will not permit its remedies to be used to turn out
one who is in possession. People v. Simonson, 10 Michigan,
335; nor to prevent one, who is in possession and claiming
title, from reaping the legitimate fruits of possession. Bell v.
C adwick, 71 No. Car. 329; Baldwin v. York, 71 No. Car.
463. Even if neither party be in possession, the court will not
interfere by injunction. St. -Louis, Kansas City &c. Railway
v. Dewees, 23 Fed. Rep. 691.
The appellees have a plain, adequate and complete remedy
at law: (1) By action to determine and establish the disputed
right to the property : (2) Under the general statutes of South
Carolina: and it follows that the court below was without
jurisdiction.
II. The statute of 1876, properly construed, conferred -dpon
the Coosaw Mining Company, after its acceptance of it, an
exclusive right for an indefinite period, so long as it complied
with the terms of the act.
The general rule for construing statutes is, that where the
meaning of the statute is plain, it is the duty of courts to construe it according to its obvious terms. In such a case there
is no necessity for construction. United States v. Wiltberger,
5 Wheat. 76; Unite Stades v. Reese, 92 U. S. 214, 244; United
States v. Central Pacifir Railroad,118 U. S. 235, 240; Louisville Gas Company v. Citizens' Gas Company, 115 U. S. 683,
697.
Statutes, which axe binding on States as contracts, are to be
construed as contracts between natural persons, and no advantage is to be given to the State in such construction. Bac.
Abr. Tit. Prerogative; Cikarles Rive,' Bridge v. Warren
Bridge, 7 Pick. 344, 469; Richards v. Dagget, 4 -Mass. 534,
537; Mede2Tllen v. .0fc(Iullougli, 2 Bailey (S. C.) 346 ; forton
v. (JonptrolLer Gehnered, 4 So. Car. 430, 448: (C,,wla v. Arkan-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Appellant.

.xas, 15 How. 304, 308; -Murrayv. Charleston, 96 U. S. 442,
445; Tennessee v. W-hitworth, 117 U. S. 139.
The Coosavi Mining Company was not a corporation. It
was a mining partnership, and, as such, not subject to legislative control. It was already in possession and actual occupation of the entire Coosaw River, and further had the right to
mine in all the other waters of the State in which it was mining, which contract the State could not alter without its consent. Differences had arisen between the company and the
State as to the construction of that contract which it was desirable to settle.
The act in its title sets out, that it is to "settle" - not prescribe -that is, to amicably arrange existing differences, and to define the period of making returns, and also to fix the
terms on which it might be accepted.
The act then lays down the terms desired on the part of
the State as new terms, to be suggested to the company, and
as constituting a new contract, between the company and the
State.
The act admits that unless consented to by the company,
the terms of the act would not be binding upon them, and
that it was desirable on the part of the State that the company should accept, and make themselves liable to the terms
of the act.
And the act further admits that the company had already
expended large sums of money in the purchase of sufficient
plant, to mine certain portions of the Coosaw River.
It proposed, therefore, to the company, that, in consideration
of their accepting the terms stated in the act, and in consideration of the expenditures which they had made, and for the
further condition, implied in the act, that they were to continue to maintain such plant and continue such operations theretofore conducted, it should have the exclusive right to mine
in that part of, the Coosaw River only so long as, and no
longer than, they shopld make true and faithful returns and
pay the royalty prescribed in. the act.
Assuming this to be a contract between individuals, would
any question be made as to the right of the company to con

COOSAW MINING 00. v. SOUTH CAROLINA.

559

Argument for Appellant.

tinue their mining operations, so long as they fulfilled the conditions contained in the contract.
The legislature itself recognizes the fact that a consideration has been asked and paid; that both sides have given
and taken, and that the terms and conditions of the contract as expressed in the act are therefore binding on both
sides.
Is not this, therefore, a contract, based upon Valuable consideration, paid to the State by the company? If so, then,
under the cases cited, it must be construed as though the contract was made between the individuals.
And if it is, then it must be construed in favor of the company, for the only ground upon which the court below rested
its decision in favor of the State, was that it must ,be construed liberally to the State, and all doubts resolved in her
favor.
In construing the act of 1876 no reference can be made to
the act of 187'0. The established principle is, that while recourse may be had to the doctrine of in ,a
materia to resolve
a doubt, it can never be called into action to'create a doubt;
that when the wording of a statute is clear in'itself and
leads to no absurd, conclusions, it'is not allowable to go elsewhere in search of conjectural constructions; and that when
there is a difference between an older and a junior statute,
especially where the latter has a repealing clause, it is presumed that the legislature intended that there should be a
difference, and the prior act must be considered repealed.
The rule of construction "in yaPai materia " is resorted to
for the purpose. of ascertaining the meaning of a statute, when
explanation is necessary, either because of seeming conflict
in its own provisions, or incompleteness of detail in its subject
matter, or a doubt as to the sense in which uncertain words or
phrases are used. In such cases, and to preserve harmony
and consisten6y, the rule is resorted to.
But the rule carries the limitation, that where the statute
is itself plain, the rule cannot be resorted to; nor can its clear
language be controlled by the supposed policy of a former
one. Therefore where the words of a statute, as in this case,.

OCTOBER TERI, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

are not doubtful, these words are the best guide to legislative
intention, and if they differ from former acts, it must be held
that the legislature in using them, intended that there should.
be a difference. The act of 18'76, set out expressly to make
alterations and changes in the existing law, and in order that
there might be no question or doubt as to this purpose, adds
the clause repealing all acts or parts of acts inconsistent with
the provisions of this act.. It seems impossible to add by way
of axgument anything which would make more clear, or more
plain, the declaration in the act sustaining the claim of the
defendants to the continuing right to mine, in Coosaw River,
than the words: "That upon accepting the terms of the act
they should have exclusive right to occupy and mine in said
river, 'so long as and no' longer than' they should make
true and faithful returns of the number of tons, and punctually pay the royalty thereon."
Upon this the defendants
stand. They. have made true and faithful returns, and have
punctually paid the royalty on -the rook mined, as provided in
the section of the act, and having so done, they claim the
right to continue to dig, and to mine in said territory, ' so
long as and no longer than " said conditions shall be fulfilled.
fa/rket. Co. v. Rofman, 101 U. S. 112, 115.
Mr. Henry A.
appellees.

X. Smith and .r.

George S. .Mower for

MR. JnsTUME HARuLAN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The Coosaw Mining Company undoubtedly acquired by the
act of 1870, and upon the conditions therein prescribed, the
right, for the full term of twenty-one years, to dig, mine and
remove phosphate rocks and phosphatic deposits in the navigable waters of South Carolina. But the right thus acquired
was not made an exclusive one. The State was at liberty, so
far as that act was concerned, to grant similar rights to other
associations, corporations or persons. This is not disputed.
Did the appellant, by its acceptance of the act of 18,76, ac-

COOSAW MINING CO. v. SOUT1

CAROLINA.

561

Opinion of the Court.

quire an exclusive ,right with respect to that part of Coosaw
River then occupied for the purposes of its business? If this
question be answered in the affirmative - as, in view of the
express language of the act, it must be- the State is, nevertheless, entitled to a decree, upon the issue as to the impairament of the obligation of the alleged contract, unless it be
held that that act gave an exclusive right to the Coosaw Mining Company,
_perpetuity, conditioned only upon its meeting the terms prescribed by the third section, namely, that it
would make true and faithful returns of the number of tons
of phosphate rock and. phosphatic deposits dug, mined, removed, shipped or otherwise sent to maxket, and pay the royalty as provided-for in the fist section of that act. It cannot
be denied that the third section, if it be construed literally
and without reference to other sections or to the act of 1870,
will bear this interpretation. But the act of 1876, if interpreted, as it ought to be, in connection with that of 1870, will,
to say the least, bear equally another construction, namely,
that the right granted by the original act for the term of
twenty-one years, was made, by the act of 1876, exclusive,
only during the remainderof that term, as to the part of Coosaw River occupied by the appellnt's works, "so long as and
no longer than" it made the returns -andpaid the royalty prescribed by the latter act. Under the latter aonstruction, the
right of the appellant, by the acts of 1870 and 1876, to dig,
mine and remove phosphate rocks and phosphatic deposits in
the navigable watets of the State, ceased altogether after the
expiration of twenty-one years from March 1, 1870. If the
act of 1876 materially altered that of 1870, in respect to:
the times and manner of making returns, or the royalty to
be paid, the Coosaw Mining Company received in consideration therefor what it did not previously have, that is, an exclusive right, for a limited period, in the particular part of
Coosaw River which it occupied when the act of 1876 was
passed.
If the act of 1876 is fairly susceptible of either of the constructions we have indicated, as -we think it is, the interpretation must be adopted which is most favorable to the State.
VOL. CXLIV-36

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

The doctrine is firmly established that only that which is
granted in clear and explicit terms passes by a grant of property, franchises or privileges in which the government or the
public has an interest. Rice v. Railroad Co., 1 Black, 358,
380; Fertilizing Co. v. Hyde _Park, 97 U. S.659, 666; Bannibal &c. Railroad v. -fissouri River Packet Co., 125 U. S.
260, 271; Central Transportation Co. v. Pullman's Car Co.,
139 U. S.24, 49; Stein v. Bienville Water Supply Co., 141
U. S. 67, 80; State v. Pacific Guano Co., 22 So. Car. 50, 83,
86. Statutory grants, of that character, are to- be construed
not unequivostrictly in favor of the public, and whatever is'
cally granted is withheld; nothing passes by mere implication. Holyoke Co. v. Lyman, 15 Wall. 500; The Binghamton
Bridge, 3 Wall. 51, 75. This principle, it has been said, "is
a wise one, as it serves. to defeat any purpose concealed by
the skilful use of terms to accomplish something not apparent
on the face of the act, and thus sanctions only open dealing
with legislative bodies." Slidell v. Grandjean, 111 U. S.412,
438.
The wisdom of the rule adverted to is well illustrated by the
present case. Neither the title nor the preamble of the act of
1876 suggests the purpose on the part of the Coosaw Mining
Company, or of any other association or corporation, to obtain,
or the intention of the legislature to grant, a new right to dig,
mine and remove phosphate rocks and phosphatic deposits,
much less a grant of such a right in perpetuity. The title
discloses only a purpose to settle definitely the time for making returns of rocks and deposits, so dug, mined and removed,
to establish the royalty to be paid, and to fix the terms on
which the act might be accepted by the parties named in it.'
If the parties, so named, had in mind to acquire a grant for
an indefinite period, their purpose was concealed under the
general words in the title, "and also to fix the terms on which
this act may be accepted by the parties named therein."
Turning to the preamble, which has been said to be a key to
open the understanding of a statute, we find that the occasion
of the passage of the act of 1876 was a dispute between the
Coosaw Mining Company and the comptroller general of the

COOSAW KINING 00. v. SOUTH CAROLINA.

563

Opinion of the Court.

State, not as to the right of that company to dig, mine and
remove phosphate rook and phosphatic -deposits, but only as
to the times and manner in which it should- make its returns,
and pay the prescribed royalty; and that "for remedy thereof"
the act was passed. Neither the title nor the preamble indicates a purpose to enlarge the right given by the act of 1870
for twenty-one years to one for an indefinite period. While
express provisions in the body of an act cannot be controlled
or restrained by the title or preamble, the latter may be rzeferred to when ascertaining the meaning of a statute which is
susceptible of different constructions. In United States v.
Fisher, 2 Cranch, 358, 386, Chief Justice Marshall said:
"Neither paty contends that the title of a~n act can control
plain words in the body of' the statute; and neither denies
that, taken. with other parts, it may assist in removing ambiguities. Where the intent is plain, nothing is left to construction. Where the mind labors to discover the design of the
legislature it seizes everything from which aid can be derived;
and in such case the tifle claims a degree of notice, and will
have it due share of consideration." United States v. Palmer,
3 Wheat. 610, 631. This rule is especially applicable in States
whose constitutions, like that of South Carolina, provide that
"every act or -resolution, ha'ing the force of law, shall relate
to but one subject, and that shall be expressed in the title."
.Meyer v. Car Co., 102 U. S. 1, 11, 12. So, in Beard v. .Rowan,
9 Pet. 301, 317: "The preamble in the act may be resorted to,
to aid in the&construction of the enacting clause, when any
ambiguity exists." The ambiguity here referred to is. not
simply that arising from the meaning of particular words, but
such as may arise, in respect to the general scope and meaning of. a statute, when all of its provisions are examined.
Interpreting the act of 18T6, with such aid as may be properly derived from its title and preamble, we are of opinion
that the legislature did not intend to grant the, appellant an
exclusive right, for an indefinite period, but only an exclusive
right, during the balance of the term of twenty-one years
fixed by the act of 1870; and not even an exclusive right for
that period except upon the performance of the conditions set

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

forth in the act of 1876 as to making returns and paying the
prescribed royalty.
It results that the contention of the State must be sustained, whether we apply the rule requiring public grants to
be favorably construed for the government, or whether, independently of that rule, we give effect to the intention of the
legislature as disclosed by the words of the statute.
It is contended by the appellant that this case is not one of
which a court of the United States, sitting in equity, could
take cognizance. In meeting this question, the counsel for
the State have placed some reliance upon the provisions in
the act of 1890 authorizing the Board of Phosphate Commissioners, In the name and on behalf of the State, "1totake such
measures or proceedings, as they may be advised are proper,
to enjoin and terminate" any molestation, interference or
obstruction of the peaceable possession and occupation for
mining purposes of the navigable streams of the State, either
by the Board, or by any one licensed or authorized by it, and
to take such action, for and in behalf of the State, as they
deem proper for the protection of its interests. This statute
is not important here except as showing the authority of that
board to bring suits, in the name of or for the State, to protect its interests. The suit may have been cognizable in the
state court, sitting in equity. But if it was not one of which
the Circuit Court of the United States, sitting in equity, could
properly take cognizance, (Payne v. Hook, 7 Wall. 425, 430;
Arow'smith v. Gl.eason, 129 U. S. 86, 98,) the pleadings, upon
removal of the case from the state court, should have been
reformed so as to make it a case to be tried at law. It is
necessary, therefore, to inquire whether, according to the
principles of equity, as recognized in the courts of the United
States, the State can obtain relief by a suit in -equity.
The grounds of equity jurisdiction in such cases as the one
before us are, substantially, those upon which courts of equity
interfere in cases of waste, public nuisance and purpresture.
The case of United States v. Gear, 3 How. 120, 121, 133,
bears upon this question. The United States, claiming to be
the owner of certain lands upon which there was a lead mine,

COOSAW MINING CO. v. SOUTH CAROLINA., 565
Opinion of the Court.
brought an action of trespass quare olausunfregit against the
party in possession. They also brought a suit in equity for
an injunction to stay waste. This court held, in the equity
case, that digging ore from lead mines upon the public lands
was such waste as entitled the United States to a writ of injunction to restrain it.
In City of Georgetown v. Alexandria Canal Company, 12
Pet. 91, 98, it was said to be "now settled that a court of
equity may take jurisdiction in cases- of public nuisance by an
information filed by the attorney general . . . upon the
principle that equity can give more adequate and complete
relief than can be 6btained at law."
In Attorney General v. Richards, 2 Anstr. 603, an info .mation in equity in the name of the Attorney General, to restrain
the erection of wharves.and docks in a certain harbor, and to
abate those erected, was sustained, the coiirt observing that
"where the King claims and proves a right to the soil, where
a purpresture and nuisance have been committed,, he may
have a decree to abate it." In Attorney General v. -Forbes,2
My. & Cr. 123, 133, it was said by the Lord Chancellor that
"in informations and proceedings for the purpose of preventing public nuisances, the ordinary course is for the Attorney
General to take it on himself to sue as representing the public." In reply to the suggestion that an application to the
High. Court of Chancery to prevent a nuisance to a public
road was never heard of before, he said: "1Manycases might
have been produced in which the court has interfered to prevent nuisances to public rivers and to public harbors; and the
Court of Exchequer, as well as this court, acting as a court.
of equity, has 'a.well established jurisdiction, upon a proceeding by way of information, to prevent nuisances to public
harbors and public roads; and, in short, generally to prevent
public nuisances."
So in Gibson v. Smith, 2 Atk. 182, in
which an injunction was sought to restrain a defendant from
opening mines upon an estate held by him under a deed containing reservations against waste, and the opening of mines,
and inwhich. it was objected that the matter was not for the
determination of a court of equity, Lord Chancellor Hard-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.

Opinion of the Court.

wicke said: "The plaintiff may certainly come into this court
to restrain the defendant from opening the mines, etc., even
if he has only threatened to do it; nor is it necessary the

plaintiff should have waited till the waste is actually committed, where the intention appears, and the defendant, even
by his answer, insists on his right to do it."
An instructive case upon this subject is Attorney General v.
Jamaica Pond Aquedizet, 133 Mass. 361, 363, 364. That was
an information in equity, in the name of the Attorney General, to restrain a corporation from doing certain illegal acts
the necessary effects of which would be not only to impair
the rights of the public in the use of one of the great ponds
of Massachusetts for purposes of fishing and boating, but to
create a nuisance by lowering the pond and exposing upon its
shores slime, mud and offensive vegetation detrimental to the
public health. It was held, upon the authority of numerous
cases, American and English, that where the nuisance is a
public one, an information by the Attorney General was the
appropriate remedy. After observing that the preventive
force of a decree in equity, restraining the illegal acts before
any mischief was done, would give a more efficacious and
complete remedy than an indictment, or proceedings under a
statute for the abatement of the nuisance, the court said:
"There is another ground upon which, in our opinion, this
information can be maintained, though perhaps it belongs to
the same general head of equity jurisdiction of restraining
and preventing nuisances. The great ponds of the Commonwealth belong to the public, and, like the tidewaters and
navigable streams, are under the control and care of the Commonwealth. The rights of fishing, boating, bathing and other'
like rights which pertain to the public are regarded as valuable rights, entitled to the protection of the government.
...
If a corporation or an individual is found to be doing
acts without right, the necessary effect of which is to destroy
or impair these rights and privileges, it furnishes a proper
case for an information by the Attorney General to 'restrain
and prevent the mischief." So, in Eden on Injunctions: "The
usual, and perhaps the more correct, mode of proceeding in

COOSAW - MINING CO. v. SOUTTH CAROLINA.

567

Opinion of the Court.

equity in cases of public nuisance is by information at the
suit of the Attorney General," p. 26'. Mr. Sustice Story said
that an information in equity at the suit of the Attorney
General would lie in cases of purpresture and public nuisance,
the jurisdiction of courts of equity being sustained because of
"their ability to give a more complete and perfect remedy
than is attainable at 1.aw, in order to prevent irreparable mischief, and also to suppress oppressive and vexatious litigations." Eq. Jur. ยง 922, 923, 924; The People v. Vanderbilt
26 N. Y. 281, 293 ; DistrictAttorney v. Lynn & Boston Railroad -Co., 16 Gray,' 242, 245 ; Kerr on Injunctions, 262, 263 ; 1
Joyce on Injunctions, 120.
These principles are applicable to the present case. The
remedy at'law for the protection of the State in respect to
the phosphate rocks and phosphatic deposits in the beds of its
navigable waters is not so efficacious or complete as a perpetual injunction against interference with its rights by digging, mining and removing such-rocks and deposits without
its consent. The Coosaw Mining Company, unless restrained,
will not only appropriate to its use -property held in trust for
the public, but will prevent the proper administration of that
trust, for an indefinite period, by obstructing others, acting
under lawful authority, from enjoying rights in respect to
that property derived from the State. These conflicting
claims cannot be so effectively or conclusively settled by proceedings at law, as by a comprehensive decree covering all
the matters in controversy. Proceedings at law or by indictme
can only reach past or present wrongs done by the
appellant, and will not adequately protect the public interests
in the future. What the public are entitled to have is security
for all time against illegal interference with the control ky
the State of. the digging, mining and. removing of phosph4te
rock and phosphatic deposits in the bed of Coosaw River.
Such securitywas properly given by the decree below.

Decree offirmed.

