SAGE v. LOUISIANA.
Opinion of the Court.

possess any property against which the judgment could be
enforced.
In the condition in which the case in the Circuit Court of
the United States was left after the reversal of its judgment,
it had no jurisdiction to proceed with the action beyond entering the order under the mandate of this court. The subsequent trial and judgment were but proceedings against a
corporation which had no existence, and vitality could not
be given by them to the artificial body which had become
extinct.
Jdgment afflrmed.

SAGE v. LOUISIANA BOARD OF LIQUIDATION.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.
No. 21. Argued and submitted March 4,1892.-Decided April 18,1892.

A judgment of a state court upon the question whether bonds of the State
were sold by the governor of the State within the authority vested in
him by the statute of the State under which they were issued, involves
no Federal question.

THE

case is stated in the opinion.

-Mr. B. J Sage, in person, and Mr. Charles V B.ornor, for
plaintiff in error.
MTr. Walter IZ. Rogers, Attorney General of the State of
Louisiana, submitted on his brief.
MR.

JUSTICE

FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.

This was a suit against the board of liquidation of the'State
of Louisiana to compel it to fund certain bonds of the State held
by the plaintiff, of August 1, 1864, and to exchange them for
its consolidated bonds as provided in -the act of the legislature kno-" n as No. 3, of 1874, at the rate of sixty per cent of
their valuation. The petition of the plaintiff was filed in
April, 1881, in the Civil District Court of the parish of New

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

Orleans, and set forth that he held, as assignee of the agent of
Mrs. J. D. Wells, and others, five bonds of the State, of one
thousand dollars- each, with coupons attached dated August 1,
1864, payable twenty-five years after date, with six per cent
interest, payable semi-annually; that these bonds were issued
by the State at that date under the law of February 8, 1864,
and other laws, and were properly endorsed and assigned to
the plaintiff, or the holders thereof; that they were legal and
valid obligations of the State, were issued in strict conformity
to law and not in violation of the constitution of the State or
of the United States, and were issued and transferred for a
valuable consideration, and were entitled to be funded as such
valid obligations; that the plaintiff desired and was entitled
to have them funded under act No. 3, of 1874, known as the
Funding Act, and to have them exchanged for consolidated
bonds of the State, as provided in that act, at the rate of
sixty per cent of their valuation; and that he had presented
the bonds for such funding and exchange to the board of liquidation, making an amicable demand of the board therefor,
but that it had refused to fund them and make the exchange.
The petition further set forth that the bonds .were issued
by the regular state government of Louisiana in due course of
administration and performance of' governmental business, in
paying for property needed to facilitate and aid civil operations, and that the transaction had no connection with contemlioraneous military affairs and was in nowise touched or
tainted with any%confederate cause, consideration or motive;
and that they were issued in proper form and by proper officers, according to law, sealed with the seal and secured by the
faith of the State. The plaintiff therefore prayed that the
board of liquidation might be cited, and that it be decreed
that the bonds were legal and constitutional obligations of the
State of' Louisiana; that they were issued in conformity with
law and not in violation of state or Federal constitution, and
were given to the original holders for a valuable consideration,
and were entitled to be funded and exchanged in conformity
with thq act No. 3, of 1874; and also for all orders, judgments
and decrees that justice might require in the premises.

SAGE v. LOUISIANA.
Opinion of the Court.

To the petition the board, of liquidation .appeared and answered by a general denial of its allegations. It also made
special denial that the bonds were valid obligations of the
State, and alleged that the parties who signed and issued them
were not the authorized agents cf the State; that the bonds
were not' issued for a valuable consideration; and that they
were issued n violation of the Constitution of the United
States.
The statute No. 3, of 1874, referred to in the petition,
enacted that the board of liquidation, which was created l'y
it, should exchange the consolidated bonds, of the State, for
which the act also made provision, for all valid outstanding
bonds of the State, at the rate of sixty dollars for one hundred
dollars; and a subsequent amendatorv act, known as No.11,
of 1875, required, a favorable decision of the Supreme Court
of the State upon all bonds of questionable and doubtful obligation, as to their legality and validity, as a condition of their
fundability, and also required the parties seeking to have them
funded to affirm that they were issued in strict conformity to
the law and for a valuable consideration, and that they .were
constitutional. Upon the issues formed, the testimony of
several witnesses was taken, explaining the circumstances
under which the bonds were disposed of, from which it appeared, among other things, that they were exchanged for
sugar procured by the State. The party to whom the bonds
were delivered and. from whom the sugar was obtained testified to that effect, and the private secretary of the governor
at that time and the state quartermaster, who were fully acquainted with the transaction, corroborated his testimony.
In February, 1888, the case was heard by the District
Court of the parish, which rejected the demand of the plaintiff and ordered judgment for the defendant, which was accordingly entered. The case was taken to the Supreme Court
of the State, dnd there the judgment was affirmed. In giving
its decision that court said that the general avd special denials
of the answer fully put in issue the validity of the bonds and
the right of the holder to have them funded, as reprqsenting a
valid debt of the State; thatthe second section of.the act under

OCTOBER TERM,- 1861.
Opinion of the Court.

which the bbnds were issued imperatively required that they
should be sold by the governor for the benefit of the State,
or exchanged- for treasury notes, state or confederate; that it
was plain that the governor, as the chief executive officer of
the State, had no power whatever to deal with those bonds
or to dispose of them, except in the precise manner and for
the distinct purpose pointed out by the law; and that any
act of his in contravention of its provisions in that regard
would be void, and could not confer on any person or holder
of the bonds a right to recover them or to enforce their liquidation or payment. This proposition, said the court, it did
not understand to be controverted by the plaintiff, but to be
virtually admitted as correct by his contention that the bonds
were sold by the governor in compliance with the terms of
the act. It then holds that the exchange of the bonds for
sugar was not a compliance with the act which authorized
only a sale of the bonds for treasury notes, state or confederate: It would also appear -that the plaintiff invoked' the
legal presumption that the officer charged by the law with
.the sale of the bonds -discharged his duty, and that therefore
the-bonds were sold and not exchanged, and,. confirmatory of
this presumption, he cited an entry in the receipt ledger of the
state auditor's office, in which the transaction is alluded to as
a purchase. But the court said as against the admission of the
plaintiff himself that the bonds were exchanged, and the positive testimony of witnesses to the same effect, that presumption
could- not prevail, which was not a conclusive pkesumption,
but one that prevailed only.till the contrary appeared. The
Supreme Court of the State therefore affirmed the judgment
of the lower court; and to review that judgment the case is
brought here on writ of error. 37 La. Ann. 412.
The case does not present any Federal question for our consideration. The only question before the court below, and
which was decided negatively, was whether the bonds were
sold by the governor of the State, within the authority vested
in him by the law under which they were issued, by being
exchanged for sugar, and were therefore valid obligations of
the State which could be funded under its statute. There is,

ADAMS v. LOUISIANA.
Opinion of the Court.

i the consideration and determination of this- question, no
resort to any Federal law; it is purely a questi6n of the construotion of a state statute and of the power which was conferred by it-upon her agents -nothing more nor less, Th
governor, acting in their disposal, was limited by the language
of the statate. He could sell the bonds or exchange them for
treasury notes, state er confederate; he could not dispose of
them in any other Way.
There being no Federal question involved,
The -writof error must be dimissed.

ADAXS v. LOUISIANA BOARD OF LIQUIDATION.
ERROR TO THE SPPF9EME COURT OF THE STATE OF LoIsIANA..
No. 187.

Argued and submitted Marcb 4,1892.-

Decided April 18, 1892.

The judgment of a state court in a suit to compel the funding of state bonds,
that a former adverse judgment upon bonds of the same series could be
pleaded as an estoppel, presents no Federal question.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
.1'. -B."J Sage and -Mi.'Charles "F. Hornor for plaintiff in
error.
.Mr. Waltr H. Rogers, Attorney General of the State of
Louisiana, subinitt~d on his brief.
!1.

JusTioE FIELD delivered the opinion of the .court.

This, like No. 21, was a suit against the board of -liquidation of the St~te of Louisiana to compel it to fund four bonds
of the State, held by -the plaintiffs, and to exchange them for
its consolidated .bonds,as provided in the acd of the legislature
known as No. 3, of 1574, at the rate of sixty per cent of their
valuation.

