DODGE

. TULLEYS.
Syllabus.

have adverted. The only ground for serious doubt in respect
to the case is, whether the evidence was sufficient in any view
of it to sustain the theory that the defendant had by its course
of business with the assured led him to believe, and that he, in
good faith, believed, that the co-iipany waived, as to him, a
strict performance of the conditions as to the payment of dues
or. premiums, and whether if the court had given a peremptory. instruction to find for the defendant, the verdict and
jud nent would have been disturbed. But we need not consider the case in those aspects; for the defendant assumed
that it would be submitted to the jury, and asked instructidns
touching the several points on which it relied. It did not ask
a peremptory instruction for a verdict in its behalf. It *cannot, therefore, be a ground of reversal that the issues of fact
were submitted to the jury. As no error of law was committed to the prejudice of the defendant, the judgment must be

DODGE v. "TULLEYS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COU'RT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.
io. 222. Argued and submitted March 22, 23, 1892. -Decided

April 11, 1892.

Interest at the rate of 81 per cent in Nebraska is not usurious.
The cestui que trust is not a necessary party to a bill by a trustee to foreclose a mortgage.
A loan was made February 1, and the mortgage and notes were dated on and
bore interest from that day; but as there were sundry incumbrances
part of the money was retained; one sum applied tQ a payment March 4;

another sum March 11; a large proportion of the whole debt was. not
remitted to the borrower until June 8; and on the 8th of October a final
sum of $3000 was sent to the borrower's agent to pay a judgment of*
$2466, which was paid, the agents retaining the balance. On a suit to
enforce the lien of the mortgage a decree was entered for the plaintiff
with an allowance of $1000 as an attorney's fee. HeZd,
(1) That no rebate of interest should be allowed on the payments made
IMarch 4, March 11 and October 8;"
(2) That a rebate should be allowed on the remittance of June 8;
(3) That thd attorney's fee should be reduced t6 $500.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

THE court stated the case as ioliows:
On February 17, 1886, the appellants, residents of Hall
County, Nebraska, executed and delivered two instruments,
each dated February 1, 1886, and together given for a loan of
$10,000. Both instruments conveyed the same lands. The
first was in form a trust deed, executed to L. W. Tulleys,
'trustee, to secure payment of a bond of $10,000, given to
Clarence K. Hesse, due in five years, with interest at 6- per
cent, payable semi-annually. . The second was in form a mortgage to Burnham, Tulleys & Co., -to secure ten notes of
$112.50, due respectively at the times the semi-annual interest
became due on the $10,000 bond. Burnham, Tulleys & Co.
were loan brokers doing business at Council Bluffs, Iowa, and
took these notes and this mortgage as payment of their commissions, the notes, with the interest named in the $10,000
bond, making the loan in fact, as was intended, at 83 per
cent. Clarence K. Hesse, the obligee in the bond, was in the
employ of Burnham, Tulleys & Co. as examiner of lands.
He was not the lender, of the money, and was named as
obligee simply for convenience in transferring title. Default
having been made in the payment of interest, a suit of foreclosure was commenced in the name of L. W. Tulleys, trustee,
to which suit the present appellants were the sole defendants.
The bill described complainant as "trustee for Cornell University, and for Burnham, Tulleys & Company," and set out
two separate causes of action, the first on the trust deed, and
the second on the mortgage. In respect to the first, after
.alleging the execution of the bond and the trust deed, it
averred that Cornell University was the present holder of the
bond. With reference to the second, the bill contained this
allegation as to complainant's title: "And your orator further shows the court that he is trustee for Burnham, Tulleys
& Co., the owners of said* promissory notes and the mortgage
deed securing the same, by virtue of the purchase of the "sanie
before maturity." It is also alleged that Tulleys was a citizen of Iowa, and the defendants citizens of Nebraska. To
this bill a demurrer was filed, by defendants, on the ground,-

iDODGE v. TULLEYS.
Opinion of the Court.

first, of a .want of equity; second, that Cnrnell University and
Burnham; Tulleys: & Co. were not made parties; and, third,
that a caise of Action in favor of Cornell University-had been
improperly joined with one in favor of Burnham, Tulleys
& ,Co. This demurrer was overruledi and leave given to answer. Subsequerntly the court held that Cornell 'University
ought to be made.a party to the suit, and leave was given' to
amend tbe bill by making new parties plaintiff; and thereafter Cornell University and Burnham, Tulleys & Co. appeared
and file& what was called an amendment to the bill, but which
simply reaffirmed in their behalf the allegations of the original bill. -.
The answer, admitting the execution of the papers,
alleged that lesse, the obligee, was a mere nominal 'party,
the real lender being Burnham, Tulleys & Co..; and that $S34:
of the $10,000 loaned had never been paid to the defendants;
and also, pleaded, generally, usury. Proofs were taken, and
a decree enteied in favor of the complainants for the full
amount claimed, with a thousand dollars allowance for attorney's fees. The defendants appealed to this court:

.Mr. Albert Swartzlander, (with whom was .Ar. C. S. .ontgomery on the brief,) for appellants.
Xfl'. &

tA.'ih
.A"cPherson for appellees, submitted on his brief.

-MR. Jurkson BREwER, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

*Appellants. allege sevbral matters as grounds for reversal.
They claim- hat the commission notes represent unlawful interest, or that in any event they should be credited with rebates. Adding the commission notes to the ihterest named in
the bond aggregates only 81 per cent on the money actually
loaned, and ten per -cent is allowable under the laws of
Nebraska. (Comp: Stats. of Nebraska,. p. 483, c. 44, sec. 1.)
The claim of a credit for rebates. springs 'from these facts.
The title to the land at the time the loan was contracted for/
and the securities given- was only partly in the defendants.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

One tract of it was school and another railroad land, in respect to which they had only a contract of purchase, and upon
which balances were still due to the State and to the railroad
company. These were paid by the lender out of the loan,
and deeds perfecting title obtained. Then a portion of the
loan was handed over to the defendants. Three thousand
dollars was. by agreement retained on account of a judgment
against the defendant, F. 0. Dodge, which was a lien upon
the land, but which had been appealed by him to-the Supreme
Court. . After this judgment had been affirmed by that court,
it was paid out of the moneys thus retained. Dates and
amounts are as follows: The securities are dated February 1,
1886, and call for interest from that time. They were not in
'fat executed until February 17. The amount due the State
was $1417.25, and was paid March 4. That due the railroad
company, $1388, and paid March 11. On June 8, $4194.75
was sent to defendants; and the judgment, $2466, was paid
October 8. On the face of the papers, interest was due from
February 1. There was no agreement between the lenders
and the borrowers with, respect to a different date for its
commencement. The borrower knew the condition of his
title, and the fact of a judgment -lien. The moneys due the
'State and the railroad company were paid within a reasonable
time, and as soon as title could be obtained from the vendors.
In the absence of an express agreement to the contrary it
must be assumed that the borrower, knowing that there
would be some short delay in making payments and perfecting title, intended and agreed that such delay should work no
change as to the time at which interest was to commence to
run. The same is true of the $3000 retained by express agreement for the judgment. It cannot be that the lenders were
to hold that money without interest, waiting his pleasure in
respect to the judgment. The delay was for his accommodation, and at his instance. But with respect-to the moneys
given to iim on June 8, ,we think equity requires a rebate of
interest on account of the long delay in the matter. When a
loan is negotiated, the understanding is that the money is to
be paid promptly after the execution of the papers. As the

DODGE v. TULLEYS.
Opinion of the Court.

parties lived in different cities, of course a little time for transfer would be expected, and the perfecting of the title is implied; but there is no excuse for such a long delay as this.
The judgment, which was a lien upon the property, justified
the lenders in retaining enough money to satisfy it. It was
only $2000 in the first instance, and by agreement $3000 was
retained in order to cover interest and costs; but the balance of the loan should have been promptly forwarded to the
borrower. Because it was not so forwarded, we think the
defendants are entitled to a rebate on the amount due to
Burnham, Tulleys & Co;, for the interest on the sum withheld
during the time it was so withheld, a period of about three
months. Eighty-five dollars would be a fair amount to thus
credit.
Another claim of appellants is that they had in fact paid all
of the interest due at the time -the suit was commenced. It
appears that the $3000 retained for the judgment was sent in
a. single draft to West & Schlodtfelt, real estate men at Grand
Island, through whom the application of defendants had
come to Burnham, Tulleys & Co. Out of that they paid the
judgment, $2466. The balance, $534, they retained. Why it
was retained is not fully disclosed by the testimony. It
would seem that they had rendered some services to the borrowers, and an inference is possible that there was a dispute
as to the matter of compensation. Be that as it may, aid
although West & Schlodtfelt wrongfully retained the money,
the burden of this'wrong must be borne by the defendants,
and is not chargeable to Burnham, Tulleys & Co., for they
sent the money to West & Schlodtfelt upon the written direction of the borrowers; and there is no evidence That West &
Schlodtfelt ever paid. the interest, as the defendant, Freeman
Dodge, testifies they promised to do.
Another defect claimed is that the citizenship of Hesse, the
obligee in the bond, is not alleged; but this is unnecessary.
The suit is in the name of Tulleys, trustee, to whom the legal
title was conveyed in trust, and who was, therefore, the proper
party in whose name to bring suit for foreclosure. It hapiens
in this case that there was but one party beneficiary under

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

the trust deed; but it often is the case, as in railroad trust
deeds, that the beneficiaries are many. But whether one or
many, the trustee represents them all, and in his name the
litigation is generally and properly carried on. The fact that
the beneficiary in a tust deed may be a citizen of the sanhe
State as the grantor, would not, if the trustee is a citizen of a
different State, defeat the jurisdiction of the Federal court.
In any event, the bond being negotiable, the citizenship of the
obligee becomes immaterial after transfer of title from him.
Kersntan v. TIerges, 112 U. S. 139; School Distritv. Hall, 113
U. S. 135. Hesse had, by the allegations of the bill, parted
with his interest in the bond, and it was unnecessary to either
make him a party or allege his citizenship. It may be that
the allegation of the transfer of the mortgage from Burnham,
Tulleys & Co. to Tulleys is defective, and perhaps it would
have been more correct to have made them parties defendant,
and permitted theg to set up their mortgage by cross-bill;
but they were by permission of the court -made parties, and
with the Cornell University, the present holder of the bond,
appeared in the case and asserted their rights and interest in
the property. While the proceedings may have been somewhat irregular, yet no objection seems to have been taken
to the manner in which this was done.- As all the parties in.
interest were parties to the record., and all the facts fully disclosed by the testimony, it would be sacrificing substance to
form to set aside the decree because of a mere irregularity in
the arrangement of the parties, or the frame of the pleadings.
So far as Cornell University is concerned, .its citizenship, if it
were necessary, is sufficiently disclosed by the allegation that
it is a corporation duly organized under the laws of the State

of New York.
The remaining proposition of appellants., is that the court
erred in allowing a solicitor's fee of $1000. There is a stipulation in the trust deed for the payment of an attorney's fee

of $1000, in case of foreclosure, but such stipulations have
been held by the Supreme Court of Nebraska to be unauthorized. Dow v. U dike, 11 Nebraska, 95; Hardy v. .iller, 11
Nebraska, 395.
seems that in 1873 an act passed the l.egis-

DODGE v.. TULLEYS.
Opinion -of the Court.

lature of Nebraska, 'expressly authorizing in any written instrufnent 4or the payment of money a stipulation for not
exceeding ten per cent as an attorney's fee in cage of 'suit.
Neb. Gen. Stats.' 98. -This act was repealed in 1879. Laws
of Neb. 1879, p. 78. In the cases 'cited, the Supreme Court
of thie State held that by the repeal of the statute the contract'
right to recover attorney's fees was taken away. So, as this
court follows the decisions of the highest court of the State in
such matters- (Bendey v.- Townsend, 109 U. S. 665,) the provision in the trust deed for the payment of $1000 as attorney's
fees cannot be regarded as of binding force. But while contract rights are settled by the law of the .State, that law does
not determine the procedure of courts of the United States
sitting as courts of equity, or the costs which are taxable there,
or control the discretion exercised in matters of allowances.
Those courts acquire their jurisdiction and powers from another source than the State. There is no statute of Nebraska
in respect to the matter. Even if there were one expressly prp-.
hibiting courts of equity from making allowances to trustees or
their counsel, such prohibition would not control the proceedings in Federal equity courts. They proceed according to the
general rules of equity, except so far as such rules are changed.
by the legislation of Congress, and while they may enforcespecial equitable rights of parties given by state statutes, (Holland v. ChaZikn, 110 -U. S. 15,) yet their general powers as
courts of equity are not determined and cannot be cut off by
any state legislation. It is the general rule of equity, that a
trustee called upon to discharge any duties in the administering
of his trust is entitled to compensation therefor, and included
therein is a reasonable allowance for counsel fees. This is
constantly enforced in the Federal courts in 'the various railroad foreclosures that have been and are proceeding therein;
and this, irrespective of any state legislation. The subject
was exhaustively considered by Mr. Justice. Bradley, in the
case of Trustee -v. Greenough, 105'U. S. 527. The English
and American authorities were fully revievwed; and the power
and duty-of the court, to make reasonable. allowances (including counsel fees) to trustees or others acting in that capacity

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

was affirmed. See, also, Central Railroadv. Pettus, 113 U. S.
116. It is unnecessary to more than refer to these decisions.
In the case before us, a trustee comes into a court of equity
and asks its aid in enabling him to discharge the duties of his
tiust; and, according to the settled law of this court, he is
entitled to an allowance for reasonable counsel fees. But we
think $1000 is too much. Indeed, in the bill of complainant,
the trustee alleges that $500 is a reasonable attorney's fee for
the foreclosure of the trust deed; and we think that under
the circumstances no more should be allowed.
The decree will, therefore, be modified by reducing the
amount found due Burnham, Tulleys & Company to $1094.16,
and the attorney's fee from $1000 to $500. In other respects
the. decree will be affirmed. The appellants will ;recover their
costs in this court.
Affirmed as modified.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY
,V. ELLIS.
ERROR TO TnE SUREME COURT OF THE STATE OF WISCONSIN.
No. 1495.

Sub'mitted March 28, 1892.-

Decided Apri 11, 1892.

A decision by the highest court of a State that a former judgment of the
same court in the same case, between the. same parties, upon a demurrer, was res judicata in that action as to the rights of the parties,
presents no Federal question for the consideration of this court, and is
broad enough 'to maintain the judgment; and this court is therefore
without jurisdiction.

TME court stated the case as follows:

Ellis brought his action in the Circuit Court for Douglas
County, Wisconsin, against the Northern Pacific Railroad
Company, E. L. Johnson, W., H. Sage and Henry W. Bradford, July 1, 1889, to quiet title .to seven lots in the city of
Superior, deraigned through one Roberts, to whom. the county

