WILSON v., SELIGMAN.
Syllabus.

mate of soda was a non-enumerated article, within the "similitude clause" of § 2499, and thus subject to the same duty
as bichromate of potash, which was specifically enumerated,
or was subject to duty as a chemical compound and salt, not
specially enumerated or provided for in that act. The Circuit
Court had ruled that the article was a non-enumerated one,
bearing a similitude in use to bichromate of potash, had declined to submit to the jury the question of similitude, and had
directed a verdict for the defendant. The importer claimed
that the. article was liable to a duty of only 25 per cent ad
valorem, as a chemical compound and salt not specially enumerated or provided for in the act. This court reversed the
judgment of the Circuit Court, and alluded to the fact that
the description "manufactures composed wholly of cotton," or
even "manufactures of cotton," had been held to be a sufficient enumeration, citing Stuart v. .Maxwell, 16 How. 150, and
Fisk v. Arthur, 103 U. S. 431, and holding that there was
nothing in its decision inconsistent with the decisions in Stuart
v. -Maxwell, 16 How. 150, and in A'rthur v. Fox, 108 U. S.
125.
[[he judgment of the Circuit Court is reversed, and the case
is remanded to that court with an instruction to grant a
new trial,

WILSON v. SELIGMAN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE

UNITED STATES FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
No. 177. Argued and submitted March 1, 2, 1892.-

Decided March 14, 1892.

Under the- statute of Missouri, authorizing execution upon a judgment
against a corporation to be ordered against any of its stockholders to
the extent of the unpaid balance of their stock, "upon motion in open
court, after sufficient notice in writing to the persons sought to be
charged," a notice served in another State upon a person alleged to be a
stockholder, and who has never resided iu- Missouri, is insufficip.nt to
support an order charging him"iyith personafliakility.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

THIS was an action brought by Wilson, a citizen of Missouri,
against Seligman, a citizen of New York, in the circuit court
of the city of St. Louis, and duly removed by the defendant
into the Circuit Court of the United States. The action was
upon an order or judgment of the state court under section
736 of the Revised Statutes of Missouri of 1879, (which is
copied in the margin,') by which execution was awarded against
the defendant as a stockholder in the Memphis, Carthage
and Northwestern Railroad Company, a corporation of Missouri, upon a judgment recovered by the plaintiff against the
corporation. The defendant answered, denying that he was a
stockholder, and averring that the order or judgment against
him was void, for want of jurisdiction of his person. The
present case was submitted, a jury being duly waived in writing, to the court, which found the following facts:
The plaintiffs judgment against the corporation was recovered in the state court on April 2, 1883, for $72,199.38, and
interest. Upon that judgment executions against the corporation were issued to the sheriffs of the several counties in Missouri through. which it had built its road, and were returned
unsatisfied; and the corporation was then, and has been ever
since, insolvent. On July 9, 1883, the plaintiff filed a motion
in the same court for an order that execution for the amount
of. that judgment issue against the defendant as the alleged
holder of stock in the corporation on which more than the
amount of the judgment against the corporation was still
unpaid. Notice of this motion was served on him personally
at his domicil in New York, and was posted in the clerk's
'If any execution shall have been issued against any corporation, and
there cannot be found any property or effects whereon to levy the same,
then such execution may be issued against any of the stockholders to the
extent of the amount of the unpaid balance of such stock by him or her
-owned: provided, always, that no execution shall issue against any stockholder, except upon an order of the court in which the action, suit or other
proceedings shall have been brought or instituted made upon motion in
open court, after sufficient notice in writing to the persons sought to be
cbarged; and, upon such motion, such court may order execution to issue
accordingly: and provided, further, that no stockholder shall be individually liable in any amount over and above the amount of stock owned.

WILSON v. SELIGIMA.
Opinion of the Court.

office of the state court. No notice was served on him within
the State of Missouri, and. he never was a citizen or a resident
of this State. At the hearing of the motion, on December 3,
1883, the defendant did not appear, and the court entered an
order, finding that he was a stockholder as alleged, and was
liable to execution. for the amount of the judgment against
the corporation, and granting the motion and ordering execution to issue against him accordingly. This was the order or
judgment upon which the present action was brought.
Upon these facts, the court below gave judgment for the
defendant. 36 Fed. Rep. 154. The plaintiff sued out this
writ of error.
Mr. Jmes S. Botsford (with whom was .9. farcus T. C.
"Williamson the brief) for plaintiff in error.
".r.
James 0. Broadheadand Mr. John O'Day filed a brief
for defendant in error, but the court did not desire to hear
further argument.
MR.JUSTICE. GRAY, after stating the case as above, delivered,
the opinion of the court.

The statute of Missouri, under which these proceedings were
had, .authorizes execution upon a judgment against a corporation to be ordered against any of its stockholders, only to the
extent of the unpaid balance of their stock, and "upon motion
in open court, after sufficient notice in writing to the persons
sought to be charged." Missouri Gen. Stat..1865, c. 62, § 11;
Rev. Stat. 1879, § 736; Rev. Stat. 1889, § 2517. Each person
sought td be charged as a stockholder is thus given the right,
before execution can be awarded against him on a judgment
against the corporation, to written notice ahid judicial investigation of the questions whether he is a stockholder, and, if
he is, how much remains unpaid on his stock.> Although the
statute does not define the course of proceeding dr the kind of
notice, otherwise than by directing ,that the proceeding shall
be'summary, upon motion and "after sufficient notice in writ-

OCTOBER TERR, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

ing to the persons sought to be charged," there can be no
doubt that in this, as in all other cases, in which a personal
liability is sought to be enforced by judicial proceedings and
after written notice, the notice must be personally served upon
the defendant within the territorial jurisdiction of the court by
whose order or judgment his personal liability is to be ascertained and fixed, unless he has agreed in advance to accept, or
does in fact accept, some other form of service as sufficient.
The general principles applicable to this subject were clearly
and exhaustively discussed by this court, speaking by Mr.
Justice Field, in Pennoyer v. _qge, 95 U. S. '714, from which
it will be sufficient to quote a few sentences: "Every State
possesses exclusive jurisdiction and sovereignty over persons
and property within its territory," and "no State can exercise
direct jurisdiction and authority over persons or property without its territory." p. 722. "It is in virtue of the State's jurisdiction over the property of the non-resident situated within its
limits, that its tribunals can inquire into that non-resident's
obligations to its own. citizens, and the inquiry can then be
carried only to the extent necessary to control the disposition
of the property." p. 723. "Where the entire object of the
action is to determine the personal rights and obligations of
the defendants, that is, where the suit is merely in _personam,
construcuive service in this form upon a non-resident is ineffectual for any purpose. Process from the tribunals of one State
cannot run into another State, and summon parties there
domiciled to leave its territory, and respond to proceedings
against them. Publication of process or notice within the
State where the tribunal sits cannot create any greater obligation upon the non-resident to appear. Process sent to him
out of the State, and process published within it, are equally
unavailing in proceedings to establish his personal liability."
p. 727. "A judgment which can be treated in any State of
this Union as contrary to the first principles of justice and as
an absolute nullity, because rendered without any jurisdiction
of the tribunal over the party, is not entitled to any respect in
the State where rendered." p. 73.
"To give such proceedings any validity, there must be a tribunal competent by its

WILSONT v. SELIGMAN.

45

Opinion of the Court.

constitution, that is, by the law of its. creation, to' pass. upon
the subject matter of the suit; and if that involves merely a
determination of the personal liability of the defendant, he
must be brought within its jurisdiction by service of process
within the State, or his voluntary appearance." p, 7,33. See
also D'Atry v. tKetchum, 11 How. 165; St. Cair v. Cox, 10G
U. S. 850; Iatime. v. Union, Pacific Railway, 43 Missouri,
105.
It may be admitted that any State may by its laws.require,
as a condition precedent to the--right of a corporation to be
organized, or to transact business, within its territory, that it
shall appoint an agent there on whom process may be served;
or even that every stockholder in the corporation shall appoint
an agent upon whom, or designate a domicil at whioh,, service
may be made within the State, and that, upon his failure to
make such appointment or desigination, the service may be
made upon a certain public officer, and that judgment rendered
against the corporation after such service shall bind the stockholders, whether within or without the State. In such cases,
the service is held binding because the corporation, or the
stockholders, or both, as the case may be, must be taken, to
have consented that such service within the. State shall be
sufficient and binding; and no individual is bound by the.proceedings who is not a stockholder.' Lafayett .Zns., Co. .
Freonh, 18 How. 404; Exparte & hoelenerger,96 U. S.369 ;
Pennoyer v. .ff, 95 U. S. 714, 735; Vaee v. .Dumergue,4
Exch. 290, 303;' Copin v. Adamson, L. R. 9 Exch. 34,5, 355,
356, and 1 Ex. D. 17.
But such is not this ease. Under a former statute of Missouri, any officer, holding an execution against a corporation
which had been returned unsatisfied, might, without further
action of the court, levy the samei.xeoution upon the property
of stockholders within the State. Missouri Rev. Stat. 1855,
c. 34, § 13, 14. In that condition of the law, the judgment
and execution bound only the property. of stockholders on
which it was levied within: the State, and created no personal
liability on their part whibh could 'be enforced by suit ill
another State; and if the officer levied the execution on the

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

property of any person not a stockholder, he was liable as a
trespasser. The very, object of the existing statute, as manifest on its face, and as declared by the Supreme Court of
Missouri, Nyas to change the law, so as to leave nothing to the
discretion of the officer, and to require the judgment creditor
to apply to the court for execution against any person whom
he sought to charge as a stockholder, and to have all questions
affecting his relations to the corporation and- its creditors investigated and determined 1)y the court before an execution
should -issue against him. Skrainka' v. Allen, %. Missouri,
381, 391. And see Holyoke Bank v. Goodman Co., 9 Cush.
5t, 583.
In the case at bar, the defendant never resided in Missouri,
and was not served with process within the State, either upon the
original writ agaiist the corporation, or upon the motion for
execution against him. He denies that he was a stockholder,
and the question whether he was one was not tried or decided
in the controversy between the. plaintiff and the corporation,
nor involved in the judgment recovered by one of those parties against the other. Under the statute of Missouri, and
upon fundamental principles of jurisprudehce, he is entitled to
legal notice and trial *of the issue whether he is a stockholder,
before he can be charged with personal liability as such; and
personal service of the notice within the jurisdiction of the
court is essential to support an order or judgment ascertaining
and establishing such liability, unless he has voluntarily appeared, or otherwise waived his right to such service, which
he has not done in this case.
These views are maintained by a very recent decision of the
Supreme Court of Missouri in Wilson v. St. Louis &- San
FranaiscoRailway, 18 Southwestern iReporter, 286, as well as
by the English cases .expounding the t. of 8 & 9 Vict. c. 16,
§ 36,.which was the source of the provision of the existing
statute of Missouri. -Edwardsv. .ilkenn &c. Railway, 1
0. B. (N. S.) 409, and 14 C. B. (N. S.) 526, and note, citing
worms of English statute; llfracombe Railway v. Devon &
Somerset Railway, L. R. 2 C. P. 15; Shrimpton v. Sidmouth
Railway Company, L. R. 3 C. P. 80; Skrainka v. Allen, 76

LAU OW BEW v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

Missouri, 384, 388, 389. See also Howell v.
afglksdorf; 33
Kansas, 194.
The cases in which judgments against a territorial and
municipal corporation have been enforced against its inhabitants, either by direct levy of execution on their property,
according to common law or ancient usage, as in New England, or by mandamus to levy a tax to pay the judgment, pursuant to express statute,- as in Missouri, have no bearing upon
this case.

BloomftWd v.

Charter Oak BWzk, 121-U. S. 121,

129, and cases cited; State v. Rainey, 74 Missouri, 229.

~Tudgment a~ffirmed.

LAU OW BEW.v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF, APPEALS FOR THE
IINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 1458. Argued January 14,1892.-

Decided Warch 14, 1892.

By section 6 of the act of March 3, 1891, establishing Circuit Courts of
Appeals, 26 Stat. 828, c. 517, the appellate jurisdiction not yested-in this
court was vested in the court created by that act, and the entire jurisdiction was distributed.
The words "unless otherwise provided by law," in the clause in that section
which provid.$ that the CircuitCourts shall exercise appellate'jurisditlon
"in all cases other than those provided for in the preceding section of
this act, unless otherwise provided by law" were inserted in order to
guard against implied repeals, and are not to be construed as referring
I
to prior laws only.
It is competent for this cougt by certiorari to direct any case to be certified
by the Circuit Courts-of Appeals, whether its advice is requested or not,except those which may be brought here by appeal or writ of error.
Section 6 of the Chinese Restriction act of May 6, 1882, 22 Stat. 58, c. 126,
as amended by the act of July 5, 1884,23 Stat. 115, c. 220, does not apply
to Chinese merchants, already domiciled in the United States, who, having
left the country for temporary purposes, animo xevertendi, seek to reenter it on their return to their business and their homes.

THs is a writ of certiorari for the review of a judgment of
the Circuit Court of Appe als for the Ninth Circuit, affirming
the judgment of the Circuit Court of the Inited States for the

