OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Syllabus.

known was, on the evidence, a question for the jury; that the
court erred in not submitting that question to the jury; that
the goods composed of cotton, silk and india-rubber were subject. to a duty of 35 per cent ad valorem; and that the ourt
erred'in directing a verdict for the plaintiffs.
The judgment is
Reversed, with a directionto grant a new trial,and to take
fvther proceedings in conformity with this opinion.

NESBIT v. RIVERSIDE

INDEPENDENT DISTRICT.

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF IOWA.
No. 212.

Submitted March 15, 1892. -Decided April 18, 1892.

When the constitution of a State forbids "county, political or other municipal corporations" within the State to "become indebted in any manner"
beyond a named percentage "on the value of the taxable prqperty within
such county or corporation," negotiable .bonds issued by such corporation in excess of such limit are invalid without regard to any recitals
which they contain.
A holder of such bonds for value, is bound to take notice of the amount of
the taxable property within the municipality at the date of their issue, as
shown by the tax list, and is charged with knowledge of the over-issue.
When a second suit is upon the same cause of'action, and between the
same parties as a former suit, the judgment in the former is conclusive
in the latter as to every question which was or might have been presented
and determined in the first action; but when the second suit is upon a
different cause of action, though between the same parties, the judgment
in the former action operates as an estoppel only as to the point or. question actually litigated and determined, and not as to other matters which
might have beenlitigated and determined.
Each matured coupon upon a negotiable bond is a separable promise, distinct from the promises to pay the bonid or the other coupons, and gives
rise to a separate cause of action.
A judgment against a municipal corporation in an actibn on coupons cut
from its negotiable bonds, where the only aefence set up was the invalidity of the issue of the bonds by reason of their being in excess of the
amount allowed by law, is no estoppel to another action between the
same parties, on the bonds themselves and other coupons cut from them,
where the defence set up is such invalidity, coupled with knowledge of
the same by the plaintiff when he acquired the bonds and coupons.

NESBIT v. RIVERSIDE INDEPENDENT DISTRICT.

611

Statement of the Case.

TnE court stated the case as follows:
This was an action on five bonds purporting to have been
issued by the School District, defendant. The case was tried
by the court without a jury. Special findings of facts were
made, of which the following are the only ones material.to
the questions presented:
"2d. The value of the taxable property within the boundaries of the Independent district, as shown by the State and
county tax lists, was for the year 1872 forty-one thousand four
hundred and twenty-six dollars, and for the year 1873 sixtyeight thousand three hundred and seven dollars.
"3d. That on the 26th and 27th days of March, 1873, the
indebtedness of said Independent district, exclusive of the
bonds declared on in this action, exceeded the sum of thirtyfive hundred dollars.
"4th. That the bonds sued on in this action bear date
Marc.h 27, 1873, maturing ten years thereafter, are five in
number, for five hundred dollars each, or $2500.00 in the
aggregate, exclusive of interest, are numbered 14, 15, 16, 17
and 18, and{that the signatures thereon are the genuine signatures of the officers of the district purporting to sign the same,
and thatsaid bonds, with the accrued interest, now amount to
the sum of five thousand six hundred and ninety-five dollars,
which bonds and interest coupons were produced in evidence
by plaintiff. The said bonds and interest coupons are in all
respects alike except as to number, and each coupon refers to
the number of the bond to which it belongs and to said act
under which it was issued. All of said bonds contain the following provision in the body thereof: This bond is issued by
the board of directors of said Independent school district under
the provisions of chapter 98 of the Acts of the Twelfth General Assembly of the State of Iowa, and in conformity with
a resolution of said board dated the 26th day of March, 1873.
A copy of the. act referred to is printed on the back of the.
bonds. The exhibits attached to plaintiff's petition are correct copies of said bonds and coupons.
"4j. That all of said five bonds and the coupons attached

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

belong to the same series and were issued at the same time,
under the same circumstances and part of the same transaction.
"5th. That the plaintiff, who is a citizen of Great Britain,
bought these bonds and all the interest coupons belonging
thereto as an investment from one Henry Hutchinson on the
20th day of December, 1877, paying him therefor' the sum of
two thousand dollars; that said plaintiff, when she made such
purchase, had no other knowledge concerning the bonds or of
the facts connected with their issuance than she was chargeable with from the bonds themselves and from the provisions
of the constitution and laws of the State of Iowa.
"6th. That said bonds were issued without consideration.
"7th. That plaintiff brought suit in the United States Circuit Court at Des Moines, Iowa, against the said Independent
District of Riverside upon certain of the interest coupons
belonging to the bonds Nos. 14 and 15, being two of the bonds
included in the present action, and in the petition in that cause
filed the plaintiff averred that she was the owner of the two
bonds Nos. 14 and 15 and the coupons thereto attached, and
asked judgment upon the six coupons then due and unpaid.
To this petition the defendant answered that at the time the
bonds were issued the indebtedness of the district exceeded
five per cent of the taxable property of the district, as shown
by the State and county tax lists, and that the bonds were,
therefore, void under the provision of the constitution of the
State of Iowa; that no legal or proper election upon the question of issuing the bonds was held; that the bonds were issued
under the pretence of building a school-house with the proceeds thereof, but the same. has not been built nor was it intended that it should be built; that the district received no
consideration for the bonds, and that the same are fraudulent
and void; that plainfiff is not a bonaflde holder of said bonds.
"The case was tried to the court and judgment was rendered
in favor of plaintiff for the full amount of the six coupons
declared on in that cause. It is shown by evidence aliundv
that the five bonds bought by plaintiff were in possession of
plaintiff's counsel at the trial of the action at Des -Moines, and

INESBIT v. RIVERSIDE INDEPENDENT DISTRICT.

613

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

that bonds Nos. 14 and 15 were actually produced and exhibited to the court at such trial and offered in evidence. It
is not shown that at such trial the fact that plaintiff had
bought and was the owner of bonds Kos. 16, 17 and 18, was
made known to the court. The judgment entry in said cause
shows that on that trial it appeared from the evidence that
when said bonds Nos. 14 and 15 were issued the indebtedniess
of the district, exclusive of these bonds, exceeded the constitutional limitation of five per cent; that the judges trying said
cause were divided in opinion upon the question whether the
recitals in the bond estopped the defendant from showing this
fact against plaintiff, and certified a division of opinion on this
question, judgment being rendered in favor of plaintiff. It does
not appear that the cause was taken to the Supreme Court upon
the question certified.
"8th. Under the statutes of Iowa, in force in 1872 and
1873, regulatiig the assessment of property for the purpose
of state and county taxation, the lists thereof could not be
computed before the month of August, and in March, 1873,
when these bonls were issued, the last computed tax list was
for the year 1872."
Upon these facts judgment was entered in favor of the defendant, (25 Fed. Rep. 635,) to reverse which judgment this
writ of error was sued out.
-1U'. W. Tilloughby and -Mr. B. 17. Lacy for plaintiff in
error.
I.-It appears from the findings that all five of the bonds
and coupons were part of the same series, and their purchase
by plaintiff one transaction, and that all the defences made in.
this action as to the five bonds were made in the former'action
as to two of these bonds, icluding the question as to whether
plaintiff was an innocent holder, dfhd that all of the -testimony
on puch question produced by defendant in the present action
as to the five bonds was in existence and could have been produced in the former action as to the two bonds and the six
coupons attached thereto upon which judgment was asked.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Upon this state of facts there could be no serious question
that plaintiff's recovery in the former action was conclusive of
his right to recover in this under the doctrine laid down in
Beloit v. Mforgan, 7 Wall. 619, and Aurora v. West, 7 Wall
82. A like doctrine is laid down by many other courts, inclu,ing the Supreme Court of Iowa in the case of Ihitaker v.
Johnson County, 12 Iowa, 595, in which case it was directly
alleged by defendant that the plaintiff had notice of the defences to the coupons in the second action.
We need not, however, discuss this line of cases farther, as
we think it will be conceded that the judgment in the case at
bar was erroneous if the doctrine announced by this court in
Beloit v. Morgaa and A w~rora v. West is to control; .but it is
urged that this doctrine has been materially modified in the
case of Cromwell v. County of Sac, 94 (T. S. 351. But however much this later case may have limited or explained the
doctrine understood to be announced in the former cases,
it does not in our judgment justify or authorize the conclusions
reached by the court below in the case at bar, where the facts
are materially different.. As appears from the 5th and 7th
findings all five of the bonds were purchased by plaintiff at
one date, of one person, for a fixed consideration for the
whole, without actual knowledge of any defences to them, and
thus holding them, she brought the first action on certain of
the coupons attached to two of the five bonds. In such first
action the defendant set up every defence which was subsequently pleaded in the present action, expressly alleging "that
plaintiff is not a ona fde holder of said bonds." The court
in such former action found that aid bonds were issue1 in
violation of the constitutio.nal limitation, but held that. defendant was estopped from showing such fact by the recitals
on the bonds, thus necessarily finding that plaintiff was an
innocent holder of the coupons upon which that action was
brought. The question, therefore, as to whether plaintiff was
an innocent holder of the coupons involved in the former
action was an issue directly raised by the pleadings therein,
and which the judgment showed was necessarily determined
in favor of the plaintiff. But if, as the court below finds in

NESBIT v. RIVERSIDE INDEPENDENT DISTRICT.

615

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

this action, the purchase of all five of the bondR and coupons
was one transaction, then, if plaintiff was an innocent holder
of the coupons involved in the former action, she was necessarily aninnocent holder of the bonds upon which the present
action was brought, and'defendant is estopped by the former
adjudication from further litigating the question; a nd this
conclusion in no way conflicts with the doctrine in the Cromwell Case, but is in entire harmony therewith.
There ar6 ,additional grouids for, urging that in any view
of the case, the former' adjudication operates as an estoppel
in the present action as to bonds -Nos. 14 and 15, and the
remaining coupons attached thereto. The former judgment
was based on coupons attached to these very bonds. As
appears from the -th finding, the petition- in the former
action averred in terms th@t plaintiff was the owner of said
bonds Nos. 14 and'15, and, the coupons attached, and the
answer, setting up every defence now pleaded, included the
express allegation "that plaintiff is not a bona ftde holder of
said bonds," that is, bonds -14 and 15. It therefore appears
that the'very ground upon which the court below defeats
recovery in the present action, viz.: that plaintiff is not an
innocent holder of the bonds iii suit, was expressly and in
terms pleaded in the former action, at least as to said bonds
Nos. 14 and 15, and was therein decided adversely to defendant. Not only was it practically impossible for the plaintiff
-to have been an innocent holder of the coupons involved in
the forrier action 'ithout at the same time being an innocent
holder of the two bonds to which they were attached, but
the allegations of the answer therein on this point, as well as
the other- points, were in terms directed to the bonds themselves, and such 'bonds were produced and exhibited to the
court and offered in evidence. Therefore as to bon-ds 14 and
15, and the fourt een coupons attached to each, plaintiff was
entitled to judgment upon the special finding even if we concede the most adverse doctrine concerning the effect of former
adjudications.
II The next point urged by us is, that the court erred in
determining by its judgment, based on its special findings,

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

that plaintiff was not an innocent holder of the bonds in suit.
Constructive notice of facts could not affect plaintiff's character as a bona fide holder of negotiable paper, and nothing could so affect it short of actual notice of defences or
actual bad faith, both of which elements are excluded by the
spec'al findings.
This question has been much discussed by both the English
and American courts, and the rule adopted has, at different
periods, undergone radical changes. The exact doctrine for
which we are contending is, we think, correctly stated in
Daniel on Negotiable Instruments as follows: "Parties negotiating for negotiable instruments are not bound to take
notice of public records, which would affect them with notice
were they dealing with the subject matter. And, therefore,
when there is nothing on the face of the bill or note to give
notice of any defects, the fact that a deed of trust securing its
payment contains recitals which show that equities or offsets
exist between the original parties does not weaken the position of a bonaideholder without actual notice."
The question of the effect upon recitals in the bonds of this
constructive notice, is the subject of much discussion. in the
cases of Buchanan v. ]Jitch4/eld, 102 U. S. 278, and Dixon
County v. Field, 111 U. S. 83, as also in Cromwell v. Sac,
before referred to, but there is no suggestion therein that
such constructive notice has any bearing upon the boha gtdes
5f plaintiff's holding of the bonds. The implication from
what is said is quite the reverse.
It seems to us that in considering the question of constructive notice to plaintiff the court below has perhaps confused
the bearing which such constructive notice would properly
have if the question of the validity of the bonds was an entirely open one, with 'the bearing which such constructive
notice has upon plaintiff's character as an innocent holder.
But the former question has been already adjudicated. Therefore the question of constructive notice of the extent to which
the defendant district could properly become indebted, no
matter how material it would have been in the former action
as affecting the force to be given to the recitals on the bonds,

NESBIT v. RIVERSIDE INDEPENDENT DISTRICT.

617

Opinion of the. Court.

or as affecting other defences therein set up, cannot be considered in this action, uiless such constructive notice bears on
plaintiff's character as an iinocent holder of the bonds in
suit, and that it does not so affect her character seems to us
to be fully determined by the decisions before cited.
No appearance for defendant in error.
MR. JusTIcE Bn.nwVR, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

Article 11, sec. 3, of the constitution of Iowa of 1857 ordains that "no county, or other political or municipal corporation, shall be allowed to become indebted in any manner,
or for any purpose, to an amount in the aggregate exceeding
five per centum on the value of the taxable property within
such county or corporation - to b e ascertained by the last
state and county tax lists, previous to the incurring of such
indebtedness." Under that section, the limit of indebtedness
which the district could incur at the date of the issue of
these bonds was $2071.30. It was already indebted in a
sum exceeding $3500, and the five bonds of themselves
aggregated $2500, or nearly $500 more than the amount of
debt the district could lawfully create. Aside, therefore,
from the fact that they were issued without consideration,
they, were invalid by reason of the constitutional provision,
and created no obligation against the district. They were
issued at the same time and as one transaction, and were
purchased by plaintiff together and in one purchase. If not
charged with knowledge of the prior indebtedness, she was
with the fact that, independent of such indebtedness, these
bonds alone were an over-issue, and beyond the power of the
district; for she was bound to take notice of the value of
taxable property within the district, as shown by the tax list.
Buchanan v..Litckfeld, 102 U. S. 278; _.orthern, Bank 4.
Povter f'ownshp, 110 U. S. 608; Dio* Countfy v. Fied, 111
U. S. 83. In the first of those cases, on page 289, it is said
that "the purchaser of the bonds was certainly bound to take

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

notice, not only of the constitutional limitation upon municipal indebtedness, but of such facts as the authorized official
assessments disclosed 'concerning the valuation of taxable
property within the city for the year 1873 ;" and in the last,
on page 95, that "the amount of the bonds issued was known.
It is stated in the recital itself. It was $87,000. The holdef
of each bond was apprised of that fact. The amount of the
assessed value of the taxable property in the county is not
stated; but, ex vi termini, it was ascertainable in one way
only, and that was by reference to the assessment itself, a
public record equally accessible to all intending purchasers of
bonds, as *ell as to the county officers." So when the plaintiff purchased these bonds she knew, or at least was chargeable with knowledge of the fact, that they were unlawfully
issued, and created no obligation against the district. She
could not therefore claim to be a bonafde purchaser, no matter what recitals appeared on the face of the instrument.
But the question which is most earnestly pressed upon our
attention is the estoppel which is alleged to have been created
by the judgment against the district in the United States
Circuit Court at Des Moines, upon coupons detached from the
two bonds numbered 14 and 15. Is this a case of estoppel
by judgment? .The law in respect to such estoppel was fully
considered,and determined by this court in the case of Cromwel v. County of Sao, 94 U. S. 351. It was there decided
that 'when the second suit is upon the same cause of action,
and between the same parties as the first, the judgment in the
former is conclusive in the latter as to every question which
was or might have been presented and determined in the first
action ; but when the second suit 'is upon a different cause of
action, though between thie same parties, the judgment in the
former action operates as an estoppel only as to the point or
question actually litigated and determined, and not as to other
matters which might have been litigated and determined.
Now, the present suit is on causes of action different from
those presented in the suit at Des Moines. Bonds 16, 17 and
18 were not presented or known in that suit; and while bonds
14 and 15 were presented, alleged to be the property of

NESBIT v. RIVERSIDE INDEPENDENT DISTRICT. 619
Opinion of the Court.

plaintiff, and judgment asked upon six coupons attached
thereto, yet the cause of action on the six coupons is distinct
and separate from that upon the bonds or the other coupons.
Each matured coupon is a separable promise, and gives rise to
a separate cause of action. It may be detached from the bond
and sold by itself. Indeed, the title to several matured coupons of the same bond may be in as many different persons,
and upon each a distinct and .separate action be maintained.
So; while the promises of the bond and of the coupons in the
first instance are upon the same paper, and the coupons are
for interest due upon the bond, yet the promise to pay the
coupon is as distinct from that to pay the bond, as though
the two promises were placed in different instruments, upon
different paper.
By the rule laid down in Cromwell v. County of Sac, the
judgment in the suit at Des Moines is conclusive in this case
only as to the matters actually litigated and determined.
What were they? The defence pleaded was this: That at
the time the bonds were issued the indebtedness exceeded five
per cent, and the bonds were therefore void; that the district
received no consideration;* and that the plaintiff was not a
bonafide holder. The judgment entry shows that it appeared
from the evidence that the indebtedness at .the time the bonds
were issued exceeded the constitutional limitation of five per
cent; but that it was adjudged that the recitals in the bonds
estopped the defendant from showing this fact against the
plaintiff. In other words, that which was determined was
the effect of the recitals. But this case does not turn upon
that question at all, and nothing was determined here antagonistic to the adjudication there. An additional fact, that of
notice from the amount of the bonds purchased, was proved.
The effect of xecitals in municipal bonds is like that given
to words of negotiability in a promissory note. They.simply
relieve the paper in the hands of a bona )de holder from the
burden ol defences other than the .lack of power, growing out
of the original issue of the paper, and available as against the
immediate payee. Suppose two negotiable promissory notes,
issued at the same time, and as a part of the same transaction.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

In a suit on the first, brought by a purchaser before maturity,
the maker proves facts constituting a defence as against the
payee, but fails to bring home notice of these facts to the
holder before his purchase; the judgment must- go in favor of
the holder, for the words of negotiability in the note preclude
the maker from such a defence as against him. In a suit on the
second of such notes may not the maker couple proof of notice
to the holder, with that of the original invalidity of the note,
and thus establish a complete defence against the holder ? Is
he precluded by the first judgment, and his failure in that to
prove notice to the holder ? That is precisely this case. In
the suit atf Des Moines no notice to the holder was shown.
The recitals cut off the defence pleaded, of original invalidity.
In this action notice is proved, and an additional fact is put
into the case, which makes a new question. The effect of
recitals is one thing; that of recitals coupled with notice is
another. The one question was litigated and determined in
the Des Moines suit; the other.is presented here. Suiely an
adjudication as to the -effect of one fact alone does not prelude in the second suit an inquiry and determination as to
the effect of that fact in conjunction with others. Infancy is
pleaded in an action on a contract, and an adjudication is made
establishing it as a defence. In a second suit' between the
same parties on a different cause of action, though created at
the same time, may not the plaintiff prove ratification after
mmjority? Many reasons may induce or prevent the introduction into the- first case of all the facts. It was well said in
Cromwell v. County of Sac, page 356, that: "Various considerations, other than the actual merits, may govern a party in
bringing forward grounds of recovery or defence in one action,
which may not exist in another action upon a different
demand, such as the smallness of the amount, or the value of
the property in controversy, the difficulty of obtaining the
necessary evidence, the expense of the litigation, and his own
situation at the time. A party acting upon 'considerations
like these ought not to be precluded from contesting, in a
subsequent action, other demands arising out of the same
transaction."

CROTTY v. UNIONT MUTUAL INS. CO.
Syllabus.

This case may be looked at in another light. The defence
pleaded in the Des Moines suit was, that at the time of the
issue of the two bonds then disclosed there was a prior indebtedness of the district exceeding the constitutional limitation;
and that defence was the one adjudged to be precluded by
the recitals. Here an additional defence is, that the five
bonds in suit themselves created an over-issue. That question
was not presented in the Des Moines suit, and could not have
been adjudicated. It is presented .for the first time in this
case. It is of itself a valid defence, irrespective of prior
indebtedness. So we have in .this case a new question not
'presented in the Des Mo[ines suit, the existence of facts never
called to the attention of the court in that case, which of
themselves create a perfect defence.
We see no error in the judgment, and it is

Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAx dissented.

CROTTY v. UNION MUTUAL LIFE INSiRANCE
.COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. .24.

Argued March 28, 1892.- Decided April18, 1892.

A promise by the insurer in a polfcy of life insurance to pay the amount of
the policy on the death of ihe assured to I'M. C., his creditor, if living;"
if not then to the executors; etc. of the assured, is a promise ti pay to that
creditior,if he continues to be a creditor, and if not, then to the executors',
etc.; and in an action on the policy by the creditor, if sufficient time
elapsed between the making of the policy and the death of the assured
to -warrant an assumption that the debt may have been paid, it is incumbent on the plaintiff to prove the continuance of the relation and the
amount of the debt.
The fact that an insurance company does not object to answers made to
questions on a blank sent out by it for securing proof of the death of

