ANSONIA CO. '.

ELECTRICAL SUPPLY CO.

II

Statement of the Case.

subject to the duty imposed on such cloths. If action were
necessary by the Secretary of the Treasury to put'this act into
force, which was not as we think, such action 'was taken by the
circular letter of May 13, 1890, from the Treasury Department to all customs officers, publishing the act for the information and guidance of the public.
Our conclusion, therefore, is that the act was legally passed;
and that by its own terms, and irrespective of any action by
the Secretary of the Treasury, the duties on worsted cloths
were to be such as were placed by the act of 1883 on woollen
cloths.
[he judgment of the Circuit Court will be reversed, and th8
case renundedforfurtherproceedings, 'in accordancewith
this opoinion.

ANSONIA BRASS AND COPPER COMPANY v. ELECTRICAL SUPPLY COMPANY.
A.PP1EAL FROx THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED 'STATES 'FOR
THE DISTRICT OF CONNECTICUT.
No. 165. Argued January 19, 1892. -Decided

March 14,1892.

Letters patent No. 272,660, issued February 20, 1883, to Alfred A. Cowles
for an "insulated electric conductor," are void for want of patentable
novelty in the alleged invention covered by them.
The cases reviewed which establish (1) that the application of an old process or machine to a siilar or analogous subject, with no change in th6
manner of application and no result substantially distinct in its nature, will
not sustain a patent, even if the new form of result had not before been
contemplated; and (2)_that on the other hand, if an old device or process
be put to a new use which is not analogous to the old one, and the
adaptation of such process to the new use is of such a character as to
require the exercise of inventive skill to produce It, suc new use will
not be denied the merit of,patentability.

THE court stated the case as follows:
This was a bill in equity for the infringement of letters

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

patent number 272,660, issued February 20, 1883, to Alfred
A. Cowles for an "insulated electric conductor."
In his specification, the patentee stated that "before my
invention copper wires had been covered with one or two
braidings of cord, and paraffine, tar5 asphalt and various substances had been employed for rendering the covering waterproof and furnishing a proper insulation. With conductors
of this character several accidents occurred in consequence of
the conductor becoming heated and setting fire to the insulation. For this reason objections were made to insuring build"ings against loss by fire where electric lamp wires were
introduced
To render the conductor fire-proof without interfering with the insulation led me to invent and manufacture
the insulated electric conductors to which the present invention
relates, which conductors have gone extensively into use during
about a year and a half before the date of this specification."
His method of preparing the wire was stated substantially
as follows: The wire was first passed through a braiding
machine, and a layer of cotton or other threads braided about
it; the covered wire was then passed through a vessel containing paint, preferably white lead or white zinc ground in oil
and mixed with a suitable drier. A second braiding was then
applied directly upon the fresh paint; the threads thus braided
upon the paint force the paint into the first braided, covering
and at the same time the paint oozes through between the
threads. In this way the paint was incorporated throughout
the. braided covering and filled up the pores; and the wire
was thus perfectly insulated, and there was no possibility of
inflaming the covering. "With intense heat the threads may
char, but they will not burn."
"If desired," said he, "a coat of paint may be applied outside of the outer layer of fibrous material, and this may be
colored, so as to be -used in distinguishing the wires. It is
always preferable to br'aid the second or subsequent coats
.upon the paint when fresh; but I do not limit myself in this
particular, as the paint may be dried, or partially so, before
the next layer of braiding is applied. Paint might be applied
to the wire before the first bifaiding."

ATSONIA" CO. v. -ELECTRICAL SUPPLY CO.

.13

Opinion of the Court.

"I am aware that wire has been covered with braided
threads; also that india-rubber, asphaltum and similar materials have been applied upon the covering, either hot or cold;
but one coating of such material was allowed to set or
harden before the next layer of braided material was applied.
Hence the asphaltum br similar material was not forced into
the interstices, and besides this all these substances ignite by
the wire becoming heated, or fire will follow along upon such
covering.
"I have discovered that ordinary paint composed of lead or
zinc with linseed oil is practically non-combustible, and it prevents the covering being ignited by the wire becoming hot if
there is a resistance to the electric current; besides this, fire
will not burn along the conductor, as is the case where the
fibrous covering is saturated with asphaltum, india-rubber, or
similar material.
"I claim as my invention "1. The method herein specified of insulating electric conductors and rendering the coating substantially non-combustible, consisting in applying a layer of fibrous material, a layer
of paint, and a second layer of fibrous material upon th- - int
before it dries or sets, substantially as set forth.
"2. An insulated and non-combustible covering for electric
conductors, compose4 of two or more layers of cotton or similar threads, with paint that intervenes between the layers and
fills the interstices of 'the covering, substantially as set forth."
Upon .a bearing upon pleadings and proofs in thp Circuit
Court plaintiff's bill was dismissed, (32 Fed. Rep. &', and 35
Fed. Rep. 68,) and an appeal take to this court.
-Mr. Charles
lant.-

. Afitchell and -Yr. Joshuac Pusey for appel-

.Ar. GOa -1s R. IngersolU and Mr. Morris W. Seymour for
appellee.
*MRt. JusTio

BRowrdelivered the opinion of the court,

The stress of this 'ease is upon the question of.. jatentable.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

novelty. The art of insulating electric wires has been known
almost as long as that of conducting electricity for practical
purposes by means of wires. Prior to the use of electricity for
lighting, however, the feeble character of the currents conveyed upon these wires did not require that the insulating
material should be non-combustible, and the skill of the inventor was directed toward a method of insulation which should
protect the wire from moisture and other external injury.
For this purpose the wires were covered with braid which had
been saturated or covered with tar, paraffine, india-tubber,
gutta-percha, asphaltum and various substances of like nature,
to exclude the action of the water and afford a proper insulation.
Upon the introduction of electric lighting it was found that
this method of insulation, while efficient to protect the wire
from external influences, was unable to withstand the intense
heat frequently generated in the wire itself by the powerful
currents of electricity necessary for illuminating purposes. At.
first these wires were covered with cotton which had been
saturated in paraffine and other similar substances; the result
was that the insulating material was melted or set on fire, and
dropped off the wire.while still burning, and became so frequently the cause of conflagrations that the insurance companies declined to issue policies upon buildings in which this
method of insulating wires was employed. A new substance
was needed which would not only operate as a non-conductor
of electricity, and as a protection against moisture, but which
should also be non-combustible.
This material was discovered in ordinary paint. Mr. Oowles
was not the first, however, to discover that paint was useful
for the purpose of insulating electric wires. In several English
patents put in evidence, paint is suggested as a proper covering for protective as well as for insulating purposes, in lieu of
gutta-percha, india-rubber, resin, pitch or other similar substances, but as a non-combustible insulator was never required
for telegraphing purposes, there is no intimation in any of
them that it possessed this quality. It had, however, been a
matter of. common knowledge for many years that paint was

ANSONIA CO. v. ELECTRICAL SUPPLY CO.
Opinion of the Court.

practically non-combustible. While the linseed oil in paint is
to a certain extent combustible, the carbonate of lead is a
material both non-combustible and a non-conductor.
It is clear that none of these English patents can be claimed
as anticipations, since they all relate to the protection of land
or submarine telegraph cables, and the use of paint, so far as
it was used at all, was simply as a water-proof covering for
a braided wire. There is nothing to indicate that the paint,
as used by them, was applied in the manner indicated by the
patent, or that it made the covering noxi-combustibie, or was
intended at all for that purpose.
The most satisfactory evidence of the use of a non-combustible covering for electric wires is found in the testimony of
Edwin Holmes, manufacturer of an electric burglar alarm,
who states that when he first commenced using electric conductors "the wire was insulated by winding a thread, larger
or smaller as the case might be, around the wire, and that
thread was covered with paint," and that all his wires were
"insulated in that way until paraffine was substituted for the
paint." The paint was applied by drawing the wire through
a vessel containing the paint, and. then through a piece of thick
rubber or gutta-percha, which removed the surplus paint and
left a smooth surface on the thread which covered the wire.
He -began to cover his wires in this way as early as 1860, and
says that he accomplished his insulation "sometimes by covering the wire with a thicker thread and two coats or more of
paint; sometimes by a thread covering and a coat of paint,
then another thread covering and a coat of paint on that."
And upon being asked to describe the condition of the first
coating of paint when the second coating of fibrous material
and paint was put on, he said: "The first coat was partially
dried, so as to keep its place, but would admit of an impression
from the next covering of thread." On being called upon subsequently for an affidavit to be used on an application for a
rehearing, he stated that his object, was not to produce a noninflammable wire, and that the wire used by him was not noncombustible or non-inflammable, and was no better adapted for
electric light conduction than the paraffine-coated wire. He

OCTOBER TERM, 189±.
Opinion of the Court.

further stated that when the second layer of braid wap laid
on' the condition of the first layer was not such as to cause the
threads of the second layer to force the paint into the interstices, and so load the wire with an abnormal quantity of paint,
as is done in the process described in the Cowles patent. The
substance of his testimony in this particular was, that the coating of paint upon his first layer was allowed to harden before
the second layer was applied, so that the application of the
second layer would not cause the paint upon the first layer to
be forced into the interstices of that layer or to ooze through
the braiding of the second layer.
Thomas L. Reed, another witness, gave a somewhat similar
experiment of the method of insulating wires by passing the
naked wire through a tub containing paint, then braiding it,
and then immersing it in a second tub containing paint, and
finally passing it through jaws to scrape off the surplus paint
and compress it. As this method of insulation, however, does
not resemble so closely the Cowles patent as that employed by
Mr. Holmes, it is unnecessary to notice it further.
Practically the only difference between the Holmes and
Cowles insulators is in the fact that the coat of paint applied
to the first braid in the Holmes process was allowed to dry
before the second coat of braid was applied, and thereby the
braid was not so thoroughly permeated with the paint as is
the case in the Cowles patent. That the idea of applying the
second coat of braiding upon the interposed insulating material,
while such material was wet or unset, is not in itself a novel
one is evident from the English patents to Brown and Wil
liams,.to Duncan and to Henley, all of which desbribe a ni.thod
for insulating conductors by applying a layer of fibrous material, a layer of insulating material, and a second layer of
fibrous material upon the former, before the insulating matarial
is set or hardened. Indeed, it is doubtful whether Cowles considered this feature of his process as of any great importance
at the time he made his application, since he speaks of it only
as a preferab e method, and says that he does not limit himself
in this particular, "as the paint may be dried, or partially so,
before the next layer of braiding is applied." But however

ANSONIA CO. v. ELECTRICAL SUPPLY CO..

17

Opinion of the Court.

this may be, the method described by Cowles differs only in
degree and not in kind from that described by Holmes. In
other words, it is a more thorough doing of that which Holmes
had already done, and, therefore, involving no novelty within
the meaning of the patent law. Indeed, we are not satisfied
that the method employed by Holmes did not, for all practical
purposes, saturate the first layer of braid as completely as if
the second coat had been applied while the first was still wet.
The process and the results in both cases are practically the
same, viz.: protection, insulation and incombustibility. There
were certain affidavits introduced which tended to show that
the Holmes insulator was not incombustible; but in view of
the experiments made by Mr. Earle, the defendant's expert,
by applying the same current of electricity to wires insulated'
by these different methods, we incline to the opinion that the
method practised by Mr. Holmes was nearly, if not quite, as
efficient in this particular as the other. If his testimony be
true,'and no attempt is made to show that it is not, it is diffi-cult to see, even if his insulator were not incombustible, that
Mr. Cowles did more than make use of his process in a somewhat more efficient manner.
In the case of Gandy v. -akin Belting Coman/y,(recently
decided, 143 U. S. 587, the patentee found that the canvas
theretofore manufactured was unfit for use as belting by reason of its tendency to stretch, and to obviate this he changed
the constitution of the canvas itself by making the warp
threads heavier and stronger than the weft; in short, he made
a new" canvas constructed upon new principles, and accomplishing a wholly new result. That case is ot a precedent
for this:
It is true that the insulator used by Holmes was not intended to be, and perhaps was not known to be, incombustible,
since this feature of its incombustibility added nothing to its
value for protecting a burglar-alarm wire, which carries a current of comparatively low tension; but, as already observed,
the testimony indicates that the insulator employed by him
was in fact nearly, if not quite, as incombustible as that made
by the plaintiff under the. Cowles patent. If this be so, and
VOL. CXLiv-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

the two insulators are practically the same in their method of
construction, it is clear that Cowles has no right to claim the
feature of incombustibility as his invention, since nothing is
better settled in this court than that the application of an old
process to a new and analogous purpose does not involve
invention, even if the new result had not before been contemplated. It was said by Chief Justice Waite in Roberts v.
.Byer,91 U. S. 150, 157, that "it is no new invention to use an
old machine for a new purpose. The inventor of a machine
is entitled to all the uses to which it can be put, no matter
whether he had conceived the idea of the use or not."
In Pennsylvania Railway v. Locomotive Truck Co., 110
U. S. 490, 494, the adoption of a truck for locomotives which
allowed a lateral motion was held not to be patentable, in
view of the fact that similar trucks had been used for pass:onger cars. All the prior cases are cited, and many of them
reviewed, and the conclusion reached that "the application of
an old process or machine to a similar or analogous subject,
with no change in the manner of application and no result
substantially distinct in its nature, will not sustain a patent,
even if the new form of result had not before been contemplated." The principle of this case was expressly approved
and adopted inthat of .Miller v. Foree, 1f 6 U. S. 22, and has
been frequently applied in the administration of patent law
by the Circuit Courts. Crandall v. IVatters, 20 Blatchford,
97; E x arte Ar ell, 15 Blatchford, 437; Blake v. San Francisco, 113 U. S. 679; Smit 4 v. Elliott, 9 Blatchford, 400;
Western Electric Com)any v. Anso?ia Co., 114 U. S. 447;
Spi4l v. Celluloid -Manufactu'ring Co., 22 Blatchford, 441;
Sewall v. Jones, 91 U. S. 171.
On the other hand, if an old device or process be put to a
new use which is not analogous to the old one, and the adaptation of such process to the new use is of such a character as
to require the exercise of inventive skill to produce it. such
new use will not be denied the merit of -patentability. That,
however, is not the case here, since the Cowles process had
been substantially used by Holmes for the same purpose of
insulating an electrib wire, and the discovery of its incom-

LARKIN v. UPTON;
Syllabus.

bustible feature involved nothing thatwas new in its use or
method of application.
The utmost that can be said for Cowles is that he produced
a somewhat more perfect article than Holmes, but as was said
by this court in Smith v. .5ichols, 21 Wall. 112, 119 " a mere
carrying forward, or new or more extended application of the
original thought, a change only in form proportions or degree,
the substitution of equivalents, doing substantially the same
thing in the same way by substantially the same means with
better results, is not such invention as will sustain a patent.".
I6 was held in this case that where awcextile fabric, having a
certain substantial construction, and possessing essential properties, had been long known and in use, a patent was void
when all that distinguished the new fabric was higher finish,
greater beauty of surface, the result of greater tightness of
weaving, and due to the observation or skill of the workman,
or to the perfection of the machinery employed. See also
.forris v. .c3.fillin, 112 U. S. 244; Busell Trimmer Co. v.
Stevens, 137 U. S. 423, and cases cited.
The decree of the Circuit Court is, therefore,

MR.

JUSTICE FiELD

dissented.

LARKIN v. UPTON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TE iRITORY OF MONTANA.
No, 175.

Argued March 1, 1892.-Decided March 14, 1892.

Where special findings are irreconcilable with a general verdict, the former
control the latter.
If the findings are fairly susceptible of two constructions, the one upholding and the other overthrowing the general verdict, the former will be
accepted as the true construction.
The top or apex of a vein must be within the boundaries of the claim, in
order to enable the locator to perfect his location and obtain title; but--

