GREGORY v. BOSTON SAFE DEPOSIT CO.

666

Syllabus.

from the date of discovery, to record his claim in the office of
the recorder of the county in which the lode is situated, by a
location certificate.
It also provides that a location certificate of a lode claim
which shall -not contain the name of the lode, the name of the
locator, the date of the location, the number of linear feet
claimed on each side of the discovery shaft, the general course
of th, lode, and such description as shall identify the claim
with reasonable certainty, shall be void.
The -reservation of the premises in controversy by force of
the Indian treaty was extinguished April 29, 1874. On that
date the premises in controversy were open to location, and
within three months afterwards the duty rested upon the
plaintiffs to record the certificate of the location of their lode,
if they desir6d to preserve any right in it. 'No such record of
their location was made within that time. No record was
made or desired by them until an additional certificate of location was filed by them, claiming 150 feet* on each side of the
centre of their vein, vhich was not done until October, 1878.
As they failed to comply with the law in making a record of
the location certificate of their lode, it does not lie with them
to insist that their wrongful entry upon the premises during
the existence of the Indian reservation operated in their favor
against. parties who went upon the premises after they had
become a part -of the public domain, and made a proper location certificate and record thereof, and complied in other particulars with the requirements of the law.

tfudgment q

med.

GREGORY v. BOSTON SAFE DEPOSIT AND TRUST
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE OIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
Wo. 292.

Argued April 12, 13, 1892.-

Decided April 25, 1892.

Money, the proceeds of a note, was deposited to the credit of a suit in
equity in a Circuit Court, in a Safe Deposit Company. G. brought another

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.
suit in equity in the same court, against the company and P. to obtain
a decree declaring him to be entitled to the money. The Circuit Court
dismissed the bill on the ground that the question ought to be adjudicated
in the first named suit, but did not decree that the digmissal was without
prejudice to the right of G. to make7 his claim in that suit. This court,
on appeal by G., modified the decree to that effect, but gave the costs of
this court to the appellees.

THE court stated the case as follows:

In an action at law, brought in the court below, in the
name of Charles F. Jones against William C. N. Swift, judgment was rendered against the latter upon a promissory note
dated April 20, 1883. That judgment was satisfied by the
payment into court, pursuant to an agreement between the
parties, of the amount, principal and interest, due upon it$21,926.90. Subsequently, January 10, 1887, that sum was
transferred- to the credit of the suit in equity in the same court
of Charles A. Gregory v. Frederick.A. Pike et al., No. 2170,
"to remain' subject to the order of the court in that cause."
On the 26th day of March, 1887, the clerk deposited $24,000
of the above sum in the Boston Safe Deposit and Trust Company, to be held by it subject to the order of the court. The
balance was deposited with the Merchants' National Bank of
Boston.
The present suit was brought August 6, 1887, by Gregory
and Jones against the above corporations and Mary H. Pike,
executrix of Frederick A. Pike, to obtain a decree declaring
Gregory to be entitled to the above funds as the proceeds of
the note on which the judgment against Swift was rendered.
The bill makes no reference to the fact that the fund in dispute was subject to the order of the court in equity suit
No. 2170.
This cause having been heard upon the pleadings and proofs,
the bill of complaint was dismissed, with costs to be duly
taxed. The Circuit Judge in an opinion disclosing the nature
of the suit, and the facts established by the evidence, held that
the decision of the question whether Mrs. Pike, as executrix,
had a lien on the Swift notes or their proceeds, to the extent
of $25,000, "belongs to eciuitv suit No. 2170, where all per-

GREGORY v. BOSTONT SAFE DEPOSIT CO.

667

Argument for Appellants.

sons claiming an interest -in these notes are made parties.
The moneys in the possession of the defendants, the Boston
Safe Deposit and Trust Company and the Merchants' National
Bank, - eferred to in the bill of complaint herein, are held by
them subject to the orders of this court in said equity suit
No. 2170, and no order relating to said moneys can properly
be made in this suit, which does not include as parties some of
the persons who are parties in said equity suit No. 2170. The
bill in this case should be dismissed, with costs." 36 Fed.
Rep. 408, 414.
.r.

F. A. Brooks for appellants.

The decree of absolute dismissal, if allowed to stand as
against Gregory, has cut off forever his claim to the fund in
court; and if allowed to stand as against Jones, it has done
the same thing as to him.. Although Jones's claim could not
be considered by the court in passing upon the suit in equity,
yet it has been cut off or barred by the decree of dismissal
entered in this cause.
The court below, therefore, while proposing to reserve its
decision of this case, or to turn over the parties therein to
some other cause for adjudication of their claim, has in fact
adjudicated adversely to both of them in this cause, and left
nothing for them or either of them to litigate in any other
cause. This may have been an oversight, and probably was
so, but the effect is nevertheless fatal to the plaintiffs, even if
not so intended.
This order was, we submit, extra-judicial, and therefore invalid and void. The money paid into court by Swift as the
defendant and judgment debtor in the action at law of Jones
v. Swift had been paid by him voluntarily after judgment andbefore execution, and not under or by force of the legal process
of the court, and consequently the court gained thereby no
power or control. whatever over said fund, except as trustee or
depositary thereof for the benefit of the real or beneficial plaintiff in the action at law.
In passing the order of January 10, 1887, the court below

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
-Opinion of the Court.

assumed an unwarrantable authority over the fund so paid into
and received by the court, as constructive trustee for the benefit of the plaintiff Jones or persons represented by him.
Xr. John Lowell and MAr. Thomas H. Talbot for MIary H.
Pike, one of the appellees.
MR. JusTicE KARtx

delivered the opinion of the court.

We are of opinion that the questions attempted to be raised
by the present suit should have been presented, and can be
effectively determined only in equity cause No. 2170. And
such we understand to have been the opinion of the Circuit
Judge. But the decree below is, in form, one upon the merits,
and might perhaps be pleaded in bar of any claim that
Gregory, or Gregory and Jones, might assert in suit No. 2170
to the funds in question. Without passing upon any of the
questions raised by the pleadings in this case, we hold that the
decree should have been without prejudice to any right he or
they may have to make such claim in that suit, if they be so
advised.
It is, therefore, ordered and adjudged that the decree below
be, and the same is heresby, so modi.ed, that the dismissal
of the bill of complaint is without prejudice to any claim
the plaintiffs or either of them may rightfully assert in
equity suit No. 2170, in the court below, to the proceeds of
the judgment against Swift. The costs of this court are
adjudged to the apellees.

