REITLER v. HARRIS.
223 U. S.

Syllabus.

"The World" had been written in England where, after
being presented, it was assigned by the author to a purchaser in New York. It was acted in that city and then
transferred to the plaintiffs with the exclusive right of
representation in the New England States. The plaintiffs'
common-law right was sustained and an unauthorized performance was enjoined.,
Our conclusion is that the complainants were the owners
of the original play and exclusively entitled to produce it.
Their common-law right with respect to its representation
in this country had not been lost. This being so, the play
of the plaintiff in error, which was substantially identical
with that of the complainants, was simply a piratical composition. It was not the purpose or effect of the copyright
law to render secure the fruits of piracy, and the plaintiff
in error is not entitled to the protection 6f the statute. In
other words, the claim of Federal right upon which he relies.
is without merit.
Judgment affirmed.

REITLER v. HARRIS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.

No. 99.

Submitted December 13, 1911.-Decided February 19, 1912.

A state statute which makes special entries in public fecords pmma
facie, but not conclusive, evidence, of the validity of the proceedings
referred to deals with rules of evidence and not with substantive
rights.
One is not deprived of his property without due process of law by a
statute making entries in public records prima facie, but not conclusive, evidencd, of the validity of the proceedings referred to.
A contract of sale of state lands, on which periodic payments are to
be made, with forfeiture in case of non-payment is not impaired by

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

a subsequent state statute making the official entries in public
records prima facie, but not conclusive, evidence, of the validity of
proceedings for forfeiture.
The statute of Kansas of 1907, c. 373, making entries of default and
proceedings for forfeiture made in usual course of business in the
records of sales of school lands prima facie, but not conclusive,
evidence of the validity of forfeiture proceedings, is not unconstitutional either as depriving one who had previously purchased
lands under the act of 1879, c. 161, ยง 2, of his property without due
process of law, or as impairing the obligation of the contract under
the act of 1879.
80 Kansas, 148, affirmed.

THk facts, which involve the constitutionality of certain provisions of the laws of the State of Kansas in regard
to sale of school lands, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. F. Dumont Smith for plaintiff in error.
Mr. FredericdeC. Faust, with whom Mr. A. C. Dyer and
Mr. L. -M.Day were on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of

the court.
This was an action in a District Court of the State of
Kansas to recover the possession of a quarter section of
land to which the parties were asserting, adverse claims
under the school-land laws of the State . The plaintiff's
claim originated in a contract of purchase with the State,
whereby he was required annually to pay interest on the
unpaid purchase price at a stipulated rate. He
failed for
three years to comply with that requirement, and proceedings looking to a forfeiture of his rights under the contract resulted, in 1901, in a notation of forfeiture, as
hereinafter explained. The defendant claimed under a
like contract, made in 1902, upon the supposition that all
rights under the prior contract had been extinguished.

REITLER v. HARRIS.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

In 1906, while the defendant was in possession and complying with his contract, the plaintiff made payment of the
purchase price, and interest under his contract, and a
patent was issued to him. The action was begun in 1907,
when the defendant was still in possession and complying
with his contract. The controversy turned upon the
validity of the forfeiture proceedings. If they were valid
the plaintiff was not entitled to recover; otherwise he was.
The statute (Laws Kansas, 1879, c. 161, ยง 2, p. 288)
prescribing the mode of forfeiture in force since before the
plaintiff's contract was made, reads as follows:
"If any purchaser of school land shall fail to pay the
annual interest when the same becomes due, or the balance
of the purchase money when the same becomes due, it
shall be the duty of the county clerk of the county in which
such land is situated, immediately to issue to the purchaser
a notice in writing, notifying such purchaser of such default; and that if such purchaser fail to pay, or cause to
be paid, the amount so due, together with the costs of
issuing and serving such notice, within sixty, days from
the service thereof, the said purchaser, and all persons
claiming under him, will forfeit absolutely all right and
interest in and to such land under said purchase. .
The notice above provided for shall be served by the
sheriff of the county by delivering a copy thereof to such
purchaser, if found in the county, also to all persons in
possession of such land; and if such purchaser cannot be
found, and no person is in possession of said land, then by
posting the same up in a conspicuous place in the office
of the county clerk. . . . Said sheriff shall serve
such notice, and make due return of the time and manner
of such service, within fifteen days from the time of his
receipt of the same. . . . If such purchaser shall
fail to pay the sum so due, and all costs incident' to the
issue and service of said notice, within sixty days from
the time of the service or posting of such notice as above

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

provided, such purchaser, and all persons claiming under
him, shall forfeit absolutely all rights and interest in and
to such land, under and by virtue of such purchase."
Upon the trial it appeared that, while the plaintiff was
in default as before indicated, the county clerk of the
county wherein the land was situate issued a notice to him
in conformity with this statute; that the sheriff made a
return thereon within the time prescribed, reading: "Received this notice this 13th day of July, 1901, and served
the same by leaving a copy with C. 0. Potter, who occupied the within premises, July 17, 1907;" that, although
not so stated in his return, the sheriff duly posted the
notice in the office of the county clerk; that when the
notice was served the plaintiff, although not so stated in
the sheriff's return, was not a resident of the State and
was absent therefrom; that he failed to pay the sum due
within sixty days from the time of the service and posting
of the notice; and that upon the expiration of that period
the county clerk entered upon the school-land record of
the county the notation "Land forfeited," in such connection as to refer to the plaintiff's contract. Whether
or not C. C. Potter, to whom a copy of the notice was
delivered, was the only person in possession of the land at
the time did not appear.
After the issuance of the patent to the plaintiff, and
after the action was begun, but before it was brought
to trial, the state legislature enacted a statute (Laws
Kansas, 1907, c. 373, pp. 538, 539), containing these
provisions:
"SECTION

1. Where entries which appear upon the

records of school-land sales, or of school-land-sale certificates, in the office of the county clerk of any county in
this state, and purporting or shown to have been made in
the usual course of the business of that' office, indicate
that the interest of the purchaser in the tract of land, in
connection with which such entries were made had been

REITLER v. HARRIS.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

forfeited for default in the payment of money due the state
on such purchase, and such land was thereafter sold to
a new purchaser, such entries shall be prima facie evidence,
in any action or proceeding in any court in this state, that
proper notice of the purchaser's default had been issued
and legal service thereof made, and that all things necessary to be done as conditions precedent to the forfeiture
of the right and interest of the purchaser, and all persons
claiming under him, in and to such land, had been duly
and properly done and performed, and that such forfeiture
had been duly declared. Any entry upon said records of
the county clerk as 'canceled,' 'forfeited,' 'reverted to
state,' 'state,' and the like, with or without date, shall
be held to be an entry indicating that the interest of the
purchaser had been forfeited."
The District Court ruled that this statute was applicable
to pending causes; that the notation "Land forfeited"
upon the school-land record in the county clerk's office
was prima facie evidence of the lawful service of the forfeiture notice. and of the due declaration of the forfeiture,
and that this prima facie evidence was not overcome by
the other facts disclosed at the trial, and so gave judgment
for the defendant. The judgment was affirmed by the
Supreme Court of the State (80 Kansas, 148), and the
plaintiff then brought the case here upon the contention,
denied by that court, that the statute of 1907 impaired
the obligation of his contract and therefore was violative
of the contract .clause of the Constitution of the United
States.
In our opinion, the contention cannot be sustained.
The plaintiff's rights arising out of his contract were in no
wise impaired by the statute of 1907. It did not interpose
any obstacle to their assertion by him, and neither did
it leave him without a suitable remedy for their ascertainment and enforcement. If the attempted forfeiture
was invalid before, it continued to be SO thereafter. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

223 U. S.

statute dealt only with a rule of evidence, not with any
substantive right. By making the entry of forfeiture
upon the official record prima facie, but not conclusive,
evidence that all preliminary steps essential to a valid
forfeiture were properly taken and that the forfeiture, was
duly declared, it but established a rebuttable presumption,
which he was at liberty to overcome by other evidence.
That such a statute does not offend against either the
contract clause or the due process of law clause of the
Constitution, even where the change is made applicable to
pending causes, is now well -settled. Pillow v. Roberts,
13 How. 472, 476; Marx v. Hanthorn, 148 U. S. 172, 181;
Turpin v. Lemon, 187 U. S. 51, 59; Lindsley v. Natural
Carbonic Gas Co., 220 U. S. 61, 81; Curtis v. Whitney,
13 Wall. 68; Cooley's Const. Lim., 7th ed. 409, 524-526.

It was because the plaintiff failed to assume and carry
the burden of overcoming the rebuttable presumption
established by the statute that he failed in his action.
Judgment affirmed.

DIAZ v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.
No. 384.

Argued November 16, 1911.-Decided February 19, 1912.

The provision against double jeopardy in the Philippine Act of July 1,
1902, 32 Stat. 691, c. 1369, ยง 5, is in. terms restricted to instances
where the second jeopardy is for the same offense as was the first.
Gavieres v. United States, 220 U. S. 338.
A charge of homicide made after death of the person assaulted is not
the same as a charge of the assault before the death of that person.
One cannot be put in jeopardy for the offense of homicide prior to the
death of the person upon whom the crime is committed.
Jeopardy cannot extend to an offense beyond the jurisdiction of the
court in which the accused is tried.

