U. S. EXPRESS.CO. v. MINNESOTA.
223 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

UNITED STATES'EXPRESS COMPANY v.
MINNESOTA.
ERRORTO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE-OF
MINNESOTA.
No. 708. Argued January 16, 17, 1912.-Decided February 19, 1912.
In determining whether a state tax on earnings is constitutional this
court is bound by the decision of the state court as -towhat classes
of earnings are included, in estimating. the earnings to be taxed.
A-State may tax property within the State although it is used in
interstate commerce.
A State may not burden interstate commerce by taxing its commerce,
but it may measure the value of property of a corporation engaged
in interstate commerce within the State by the gross receipts, and
impose a tax thereon if the 'same is in lieu of all taxes upon the property of such corporation Oklahoma v. Wells, Fargo '& Co., ante,
p. 298, distinguished.'
It is difficult, at times, to draw the line between state taxes that are
unconstitutional as burdening interstate commerce and a legitimate
property tax measured in part by income from interstate commerce.
While the determination by the state court that a tax so measured
is a property tax is not binding on, this court, in this case, this court
will not say that the conchision is not well founded.
The Minnesota'statutes, Revised Laws, 1905, Chapter 11, taxing express companies on their property employed within the State six
per cent of the gross receipts in lieu of all other taxes, is an exercise
in good faith of legitimate taxing power, and is not an unconstitu-'
tional burden upon interstate commerce.

THE fats, which involve the constitutionality of, a stat-

ute of the State of Minnesota taxing express companies,
are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Robert E. OldaandMr. FrankB. Kellogg, with whom
Mi. C. A. Severance was on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
The Minnesota statute, as construed by the courts of

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

223 U. S.

that State, imposes a tax upon gross receipts arising from
interstate commerce. The construction given the statute
is not only unnecessary but erroneous. Pacific Express
Co. v. Seibert 142 U. S. 339.

The earnings from interstate transfer business constitute receipts derived from interstate commerce. That
the carrier operated a line wholly within the State is
immaterial, so long as the function which it performed was
a part of a continuous journey from one State to another,
under a single, continuous contract of carriage. Whether
carried on by one, or by two or more express companies,
the commerce involved is itself interstate, and no part of
it can be divested of its interstate character by the incidental circumstance that it may be carried on by one of
the companies wholly within'state lines. Gloucester Ferry
Co. v. Pennsylvania, 114 U. S. 196; Fargo v. Michigan,
121 U. S. 20; PhiladelphiaSteamship Co. v. Pennsylvania,
122 U. S. 326, 343, 344; Norfolk & Western R. R. Co. v.
Pennsylvania, 136 U. S. 114, 119; New York v. Knight,
192 U. S. 21; Galveston & San Ant. Ry. Co. v. Texas, 210
U. S. 217; Southern Pacific Terminal Co. v. Int. Com.
Comm:, 219 U. S. 498; People v. Miller, 178 N. Y. 194.
The tax upon the receipts from "interstate transfer
business" is invalid as an attempt by the State to impose
-a direct burden upon interstate commerce. State Freight
Tax, 15 Wall. 232; while in State Tax on Railway Gross
Receipts, 15 Wall. 284; Railroad Co. v. Maryland, 21 Wall.
456; Peik v. Chic. & N. W. Ry. Co., 94 U. S. 164; Munn v.
Illinois, 94 U. S. 113; C., B. & Q. Ry. Co. v. Iowa, 94 U. S.
.155; the rate making power of the State was sustained, in
Wabash, St. L. & P. Ry. Co. v. Illinois, 118 U. S. 557, the
power of the States over interstate, rates was definitely
denied; and see cases supra andRattermanv. West. Un. Tel.
Co., 127 U. S. 411; Leloup v. Port of Mobile, 127 U. S. 640;
overruling Osborne v. Mobile, 16 Wall. 479; Western Union
Telegraph Co. v. Pennsylvania, 128 U. S. 39; Western Union

U. S. EXPRESS CO. v. MINNESOTA.
223 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Telegraph CO. v. Alabama, 132 U. S. 472; Lyng v. Michigan,
135 U. S. 161, 166; Crutcher v. Kentucky, 141 U. S. 47.
The cases of Maine v. Grand Trunk Ry. Co., 142 U. S.
217; Postal Telegraph Co. v. Adams, 155 U. S. 688; Erie
Railroad v. Pennsylvahia, 158 U. S. 431; Louis. & Nashv.
R. R. v. Kentucky, 161 U. S. 677, were sustained only
because laid on intrastate receipts.
By the latest announcement of this court, in Galveston,
Harrisburg & San Antonio R. R. Co. v. Texas, 210 U. S.
217, an act was held unconstitutional because it laid a
tax directly upon the gross receipts.
The Supreme Court of Minnesota has sustained the
tax at bar on the theory that it is a tax upon the property
of the company and not upon the earnings.
It has been held, however, that property outside of the
State cannot be taxed by the State. Fargo v. Hart, 193
U. S. 490.
The lieu of other taxes clause does not make the act
constitutional. The State of Minnesota cannot, by merely
refraining from levying the ordinary property taxes against
a company engaged in interstate commerce, acquire the
right to tax the interstate commerce carried on by that
company. If this could, be done then all restraints upon
state action in this respect could be released by mere
non-action, and it would become a perfectly simple matter
for States to acquire a free hand in taxing such commerce.
There-is hardly any branch 6f interstate commerce which
can be carried on without the use of property in some form.
On the hypothesis under discussion, all that any State
need do, under such circumstances, is to neglect to tax
the tangible property and then impose a direct tax upon
the gross receipts arising from the business. Fargo v.
Michigan, 121 U. S. 230; Western Union Telegraph-Co. v.
Kansas, 216 U.S. 1; Pullman Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 56.
Transportation between two points within the same
State but passing out of the State, intermediately is interVOL. CCXXIII--22

338

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion.of the Court.

223 U S.

state commerce. Lehigh Valley Ry. Co. v, Pennsylvania,
145 U. S. 192; Hanley v. Kansas Southern Rd. Co., 187
U. S. 617.
Mr. Lyndo-n A. Smith, Attorney General of Minnesota,
and Mr. William J. Stevenson, with whom Ir. George T.
Simpson was on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
This ig a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the
State of Minnesota, bringing in review a judgment of
that court sustaining a tax assessed against the United
States Express Company. 114 Minnesota, 346.
The Express Company is 'an unincorporated association,
with its principal office in "the State of New York, engaged
in the express business in the United States. The business
is carried on under contracts between the Company and
railroads for the transportation by the railroad companies
of goods forwarded by the Express Company, upon the
payment by the Express. Company, as compensation for
such service, of a certain percentage of the gross yeceipts
of the Express Company derived from the business carried over the lines of the railroads. Under such contracts
the Company is engaged in carrying on express business
over many lines of railroads in the United States, amounting in the aggregate to some 30,000 miles of road. It
carries on express business in this manner in the State of
Minnesota upon the Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific
Railway, Duluth & Iron Range Railroad and, for a time,
the Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Railway. The Company has offices in many States, the District of Columbia
and Canada 'and in various European countries. it has
about fifty offices in the State of Minnesota.
The law in question (Revised Laws of Minnesota,
1905, Chapter 11), provides for the taxation of express
companies. Section 1013 of the act requires every ex-

U. S. EXPRESS CO. v. MINNESOTA.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

press company doing business in the State, between
January 1 and February 1, to file with the state auditor,
in such form as he may prescribe, a statement, duly verified, showing the entire receipts, including all sums earned
or charged, whether received or not, for business done
within
1its the State, including
proportion of gross receipts
for business done in the State by such company in connec-,
tion with other companies. The statement must further
show the amount actually paid by such express company
to the railroads within the State for the transportation
of its freight for the year, giving the amount paid to, each
railroad company; and also show the entire receipts of
the company for business done within the State, including
its proportion of gross receipts for business done within
the State in connection with other companies, after deducting the amounts paid for transportation to railroads
within the State. Section 1015 provides that the auditor
shall annually, between March 1 and April 1, .ascertain
the gross receipts of such company by deducting the sums
thus annually paid by it for the transportation of freight
within the State from its entire receipts for business done
in the State, including its proportion for business done
within the State in connection with other companies.
Section. 1019 provides that annually, on or before
March 15, the auditor shall assess upon each company a
tax of-six per cent. upon its gross receipts for business done
in the State for the preceding calendar year, as determined
by the auditor, which shall be in lieu of all taxes- upon its
property, and shall deliver to the state treasurer for collection a draft upon the company for such sum.
The action was brought by. the State of Minnesota to
recover certain items which it was claimed were omitted
from the returns of the Express Company, and which were
properly the subject of taxation under the statute. Under
-the stipulated facts these items embraced in paragraph III
of complaint, Schedule No. 1, consist of:

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

"Earnings of $54,209.19 constituting earnings on express
business for the years 1899 to 1908, inclusive, which express
business was made up entirely of shipments delivered by
the shipper to an express company in the State of Minnesota, consigned to an ultimate consignee at a second point
in the state of Minnesota, which shipments were forwarded by express between the point of origin and point
of destination over lines of railroad, which lines were partly
within and partly without the state of Minnesota. That
is to say; all of these shipments necessarily passed out of
the state of Minnesota in transit. Said amount, namely,
$54,209.19, is based upon the total earnings on said shipments and is not that part of said earnings apportionable
to the transportation which was performed within the
state of Minnesota. In arriving at said amount the total
earnings received by the Express Company upon. said
shipments have been taken regardless of what proportion
of the through carry was performed within the state of
Minnesota. About 91 per cent of the mileage under this
item is within Minnesota."
Alleged omitted earnings on which back taxes were
claimed under paragraph III of complaint, Schedule No. 2,
such omitted earnings amounting to $9,702.89, on which
back taxes were claimed of $504.47, were made up as
-fdllows:
"Earnings derived by the company from the following
express shipments: (a,) Shipments received by an express
company from a shipper at a point of origin outside of the
state of Minnesota addressed to and destined to a consignee within the state of Minnesota; or (b) shipments
del'ivered to an express company by a shipper in the state
of Minnesota and addressed to. and destined to a consignee without the state of Minnesota; or (c) shipments
delivered to an express company by a shipper without the
state of Minnesota and addressed to and destined to a consignee without the state of Minnesota, passing through the

U. S. EXPRESS CO. v. MINNESOTA.

223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

state of Minnesota in transit, as to all of which said shipments, either in class a, class b, or class c, the defendant received said shipments at a point in the state of Minnesota
and forwarded them over its lines to a second point within
the state of Minnesota, the transportation while in the
hands of the defendant being performed wholly within the
state of Minnesota. The transportati on in connection with.
such shipments outside of the state of Minnesota was
performed by connecting companies other than the defendant. Each of said shipments which constituted said
amount of $9,702.89 in Schedule No. 2 of paragraph III
of complaint was made upon a through rate and a through
waybill and bill of: lading showing the origin and ultimate
destination thereof, and cohsisted of a single transportation
transaction commencing with the delivery by the shipper
to an express company and continuing until and not ending before the delivery of the shipment to the consignee at
the point of ultimate destination to which the shipment
was addressed."
Taxes are not claimed or collected upon shipments of
express matter in the classes named where the same express
company performs the transportation service both within
and without the State of Minnesota.
A question was also made as to the constitutional validity of the tax upon money orders issued by the express
company, but that objection has not been pressed in
argument here.
The plaintiff in error contends that the assessment of the
tax upon its earnings from shipments by a consignor in
the State of Minnesota to an ultimate consignee within
the State, which shipments were forwarded by express
between the points of origin, and destination over railroads
partly within and partly without the State of Minnesota
(paragraph III, Schedule No. 1), is an unconstitutional
exaction, in that it is an attempt of the State to regulate
interstate commerce, and is without due'process of law.

.342

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

As to such shipments, the Supreme Court held that nine
per cent. of. the taxes claimed on this class of earnings
should be deducted from the amount of the recovery-allowed in the court of original .jursdiction, since it was
disclosed that only 91 per cent. of the mileage was within
the State. For this part of the decision the Minnesota
court relied upon Lehigh Valley R. R. Co. v. Pennsylvania,
145 U. S.192. An examination of that case shows- that
'it is decisive of the present one on this point, and we need
not further discuss this feature of the case.
As to the transportation described, in paragraph III,
Schedule-No. 2, from points within the State to points
without the State, from points withoutthe State to points
within the State, and 'from points without the State to
-points without the State, passing through the State, the
transportation outside of the State being performed by
connecting companies, the Supreme Court of Minnesota
held' that it was the intention of the legislature, in the
statute .under consideration, to include the-earnings from
these classes within the State in the gross receipts upon
which, the tax is based. This construction of the statute
is binding upbn us.
The transportation was made upon a through rate and
through bill of lading, and, it is stipulated; consisted of a
single transportation transaction, commencing with the
delivery by the shipper to the Express Company and continuing until the -delivery of the shipment to the consignee
at the ultimate destination. This was clearly interstate
commerce, and the Federal question made in this connection 'is: Is this tax a burden upon interstate commerce,
and, therefore, an infraction of the exclusive power of Congress, under the Constitution, to regulate commerce among
the States?
It is thoroughly well settled in this court that state laws
may not burden interstate commerce. As one form of
burden may exist in taxing the'conduct of interstate-

U. S. EXPRESS CO. v. MINNESOTA.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

commerce, such taxation has been uniformly condemned.
Examples of cases of that character may be found in Fargo
v. Michigan, 121 U. S. 230; Philadelphia & Southern
Steamship Co. v. Pennsylvania, 122 U. S. 326; Ratterman v.
Western Union Telegraph Co., '127 U. S. 411; Leloup v.
Port of Mobile, 127 U. S. 640; Western Union Telegraph Co.
v. Pennsylvania, 128 U. S. 39; Western Union Telegraph
Co. v. Alabama, 132 U. S"472; Galveston, Harrisburg &
San Antonio Ry. Co. v. Texas, 210 U. S. 217.
While we have no disposition to detract from the authority of these decisions, this court has had also to consider and determine the effect of statutes which undertake
to measure a tax within the, legitimate power of the State
by receipts which came in part from business of an interstate character. In that class of, cases a distinction was
drawn between laws burdening interstate commerce, and
laws where the measure of a legitimate tax consists in part
of the avails or income from the conduct of such commerce.
In Maine v. Grand Trunk Ry. Co., 142 U. S. 217, this
court sustained a tax 'which required every railroad operated within the State to pay an annual tax for the privilege of exercising its franchises therein, determined upon
a proportion of gross transportation receipts, which in
that case were shown to be those of a railroad partly
within and partly without the State, such gross receipts
being derived from its entire business, state and interstate.
The resort to the gross receipts, in the opinion of the court,
was merely a means of ascertaining the business done by
the corporation, and thus measuring the tax, which was
held to be within the power of the State.
In Wisconsin & Michigan Railway Co. v. Powers, 191
'U. S. 379, a tax was 'sustained,-which made the income
of the railway company within the State, including interstate earnings, the prima facie measure of the value of
the property within the State for the purpose of taxation.
In the course of the opinion this court said (p. 387):

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

"In form the tax is a tax on 'the property and business
of such railroad corporation operated within the State,'
computed upon certain percentages of gross income. The
prima facie measure of the plaintiff's gross income is substantially that which was approved in Maine v. Grand
Trunk Railway Co., 142 U. S. 217."
A question, in principle, not unlike the one here presented, came-before this court in Flint v. Stone Tracy Co.,
220 U. S. 107. In that case it was contended that the
income of the corporations sought to ,betaxed under the
Federal law, included, as to gome of the companies, large
investments in municipal bonds and other securities beyond the Federal power of taxation. It was held, after a
review of some of the previous cases in this court, that,
where the tax was within the legitimate authority of the
Federal Government, it might be measured, in part, by
the income from property not in itself taxable, and the
distinction was undertaken to be pointed out between an
attempt to tax property beyond the reach of the taxing
power and to measure a legitimate tax by income derived,
in part at least, from the use of 'such property. Flint v.
Stone Tracy Co., -upra, 162,'3, 4 and 5.
The right of the State to tax property, although it is
used in interstate commerce, is thoroughly well settled.
Postal Telegraph Co. v. Adams, 155 U. S.688; Pullman's
Palace Cair Co. v. Pennsylvania, 141 U. S. 18; Ficklen v.
Shelby County, 145 U. S. 1, 22. The difficulty has been,
and is, to distinguish between legitimate attempts to
exert the taxing power of the State and those laws which,
though in the guise of taxation, impose real buidens upon
interstate commerce as such. This difficulty was recognized in Galveston, Harrisburg& San Antonio Ry. Co. v.
Texas, 210 U. S. supra, wherein the possible differences
between the decisions in Philadelphia Steamship Co. v.
Pennsylvania, 122 U. S. supra, and Maine v. Gran'd Trunk
Ry. Co., 142 U. S. supra, were commented upon and ex-

U. S. EXPRESS CO. v. MINNESOTA.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

plained. Mr. Justice Holmes, speaking for the court,
said (p. 227):
"'By whatever name the exaction may be called, if it
amounts to no more than the ordinary tax upon property
or a just equivalent therefor, ascertained by reference
thereto, it is not open to attack as inconsistent with the
Constitution.' Postal Telegraph Cable Co. v. Adams, 155
U. S. 688, 697. See New York, Lake Erie & Western R. R.
Co. v. Pennsylvania, 158 U. S. 431, 438, 439. The question
is whether this is such a tax. It appears Sufficiently, perhaps from what has been said, that we are to look for a
practical rather than a logical or philosophical distinction.
The State must be allowed to tax the property and to tax
it at its actual value as a going concern. On the other
hand the State Cannot tax the interstate business. The
two necessities hardly admit of an absolute logical reconciliation. Yet the distinction is not without sense. When
a legislature is trying simply to value property, it is less
likely to attempt to or effect injurious regulation than
when it is aiming directly at the receipts from interstate
commerce. A practical. line can be drawn by taking the
whole scheme of taxation into account. That must be
done by this court as best it can."
In that case the statute of Texas was condemned, because it appeared to the court to be an attempt to reach
the receipts from interstate commerce by a tax of one pet
cent., or what was equal to the same thing, on gross receipts arising from such commerce, when it appeared from
the judgment of the-state court and the argument on behalf
of the State that another tax on the property had already
been levied, covering its full value as a going concern.
The tax under consideration was held to be merely an
effort to reach the gross receipts, not disguised by the
name of an occupation tax or in any way helped by the
words "equal to."
Upon like reasoning the statute of Oklahoma was con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

demned in the case of Oklahoma v. W Us, Fargo & Co.,

decided to-day, ante,, p. 298.
Appreciating the difficulty emphasized. in .the Galveston Case of drawing the line between taxes that burden
interstate commerce and those whereby the legislature
is simply undertaking to impose a' property tax within
its legitimate power, measured in part by the income from
interstate comnnerce transactions, how does the present
case stand? The Supreme Court of Minnesota construed
the tax to be a property tax, measured'by the gross earnings within the State, which, under their construction
-of the tax, included the earnings here in question; That
court held that the statute 'was part of a system long in
force in Minnesota, passed under the authority of. the
state constitution, and was intended to afford a means of
valuing the property of express companies within- tle
State. While the determination that the tax is a property
tax measured by gross receipts is not binding upon this
court, wb are'not prepared to say that this conclusion
is not well founded, in view of the provisions and purpopes
of .the law.
The statute itself provides that. the assessments under
it "shall be in lieu of all taxes upon its property." ,In
other words, this is the only mode prescribed ii Minnesota for exercising the recognized authority .of the State
to'tax the property of express companies as going concerns
within'its jurisdiction. If not taxed by this method, the
property is not taxed at all., In this connection, the
language of Mr: Justice Peckham in McHenry v. Alford,
168 Ut. S. 651, 671, while it was.not necessary to the decision of the case, is nevertheless apposite:,
"When it is said, as it is in this act, that the tax'collected by this method shall be in lieu of all other taxes
whatever, it would seem that. it, might be claimed with
great plausibility that a tax levied under such circumstances and by such methods was not inreality a tax upon

U. S. EXPRESS CO. v. MINNESOTA.

223 U.- S.

Opinion of the Court.

the gross earnings, but was a tax upon the lands and
other property of the company, and that the method
adopted of arriving at the sum which the company should
pay as taxes upon its property was by taking a percentage
of its gross earnings."
The tax in the present case is not like those held invalid in the Galveston Case and the Oklahoma Case, being
in addition to other state taxation reaching the property
of all kinds of the express company. The tax to be collected in part from the earnings of interstate commerce
was part of a scheme of taxation, seeking to reach the
value of the property of such companies in the State,
measured by the receipts from business done within
the State. The statute was not aimed exclusively at
the, avails of interstate commerce (Philadelphia Steamship Co. v. Pennsylvania, supra), but, as in the Maine
Case, was an attempt to measure the amount of tax within
the admitted power of the State by income derived, in
part, from the conduct of interstate commerce. ,The
property of express companies, being much of it of an
intangible character, is difficult to reach and properly
assess for taxation.- This difficulty led this court in Adams
Express Co, v. Ohio, 165 U. S. 194; S. C., 166 U. S. 185,
to sustain a-tax upon the property of an express company,
which property was considered a part of one moneyearning organization extending through many States.
As this court said in Postal Tel. Co. v. Adams, 155 U. S.
688-696, 697:
"Doubtless,' no -State could add to the taxation of
property according to the 'rule of ordinary property taxation, the burden of a license or other tax on the privilege
.of* using, constructing, or operating an instrumentality
of interstate or international commerce or for the carrying
on'of such commerce; but the value of property results
from the use to which it is put and varies with the profitableness of that use, and by whatever -name the exaction

348

-OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

may be called, if it amounts to no more than the ordinary
tax upon property or a just equivalent therefor, ascertained
by reference thereto, it is not open to attack as inconsistent
with the Constitution."
We think the tax here in, question comes within this
principle. There is no suggestion in the present record,
as was shown in Fargo v. Hart, 193 U. S.400, that the
amount of the tax is unduly great, having reference to
the real value of the property of the company within the
State and the assessment made.

The statute embraces

receipts from all. th'e business done Within the State,
including muchl which is purely local...
Upon the whole, wethink.the statute falls within that
class where there has..been an exercise in good faith .of a
legitimate. taxing power;- the measure of which. taxation
is, in part the proceeds of interstate commerce, which
could not, in itself, be taxed, and does not fall within
that class of statutes uniformly condemned in this, court,
which show a manifest attempt to burden the conduct
of interstate commerce, such power, of course, being
beyond the authority of the State.
We find no error in the judgment of the Supreme Court
of the State of Minnesota, and it is
Affirmed.

