PHILADELPHIA CO. v. STIMSON.

,605

Syllabus.

.223 U. S.

removal of one of the posted copies from a depot would
disestablish or suspend the rates, a result which evidently
is not intended by the act, for it provides that rates once
lawfully. established shall not be changed otherwise than
in the mode prescribed.
Like views of the posting clause were expressed in Texas
and Pacific Railway Co. v. Cisco Oil Mill, 204 U. S. 449,
and upon further consideration we perceive no reason for
departing from them. See also Kansas City Southern Railway Co. v. Albers Commission Co., ante, p. 573.
Whether, by failure to comply with that clause, a carrier
becomes subject to a penalty is apart from the present
case and need not now be considered.
The judgments are reversed, and the cases are remanded
for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.

PHILADELPHIA COMPANY v. STIMSON, SECRETARY OF WAR.'
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA.
No. 70.

Argued November 16, 1911.-Decided March 4, 1912.

Exemption of the United States from suit does not protect its officers
from personal liability to persons whose rights of property they

have wrongfully invaded.
In case of injury threatened by illegal action, an officer of the United

States cannot claim immunity from injunctive process.
Where complainant does not ask the court to interfere with an officer
I This case was originally commenced against William H. Taft as
Secretary of War; by ,Iosequent orders of the court the successive
incumbents of that office, Luke E. Wright, Jacob M. Dickinson and
Henry L. Stimson, were substituted as defendants and appellees.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

223 U. S.

of the United States acting within his official discretion, but challenges his authority to do .the act complained of, the suit is not
against the United States.
While the general rule is that equity has no jurisdiction over the prosecution of crimes, it may, when it is essential to the protection of
property rights, as to which the protection of a court of equity has
already been invoked, enjoin the institution of criminal actions
involving the same legal questions.
An officer :transcending the limits of his authority under a constitutional statute may inflict similar injuries on property or individuals
as though he were proceeding under an unconstitutional statute, and
in either event, equity may intervene to restrain unfounded prosecutions.
A court of equity having control. of the person of defendant has jurisdiction of an action to restrain him from violating the rights of the
complainant in regard to property not within its jurisdiction and
may compel obedience to its decree. Phelps v. McDonald, 99 U. S.
298.
While the establishment of a general system of harbor lines for the
protection of navigation is not of itself an injury to property and
cannot be restrained, equity may enjoin an officer from taking
measures to maintain the limits against an individual proprietor
and so preventr him from enjoying what he asserts to be a lawful use
of his own property.
A riparian proprietor of land bounded by a stream continues to hold
to the stream as a boundary where the banks are changed by accretion or erosion, but if the banks are changed by avulsion, the title is
not changed but remains at the former line. This rule applies alike
to all streams and rivers no matter how strong and swift they may
be.
To bring a sudden change of channel within the rule that it will not
affect the boundary line, it must be perceptible when it takes place.
Nebraska v. Iowa, 143 U. S. 359.
In this case, held, that the changes in the line of complainant's property were due to gradual erosion and not to sudden change of channel, and that the stream remained the boundary line.
The title to the soil under navigable waters within their territorial
limits, and the extent of riparian rights, are governed by the law of
the several States subject to the paramount authority of Congress;
and under the authority of Congress, the Secretary of War may fix
harbor lines superseding those fixed by the State.
Commerce includes navigation; Gilman v. Philadelphia, 3 Wall. 713;

PHILADELPHIA CO. v. STIMSON.
223 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

and the power of Congress over navigation has no limits except those
prescribed in the Constitution. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 196.
The authority of Congress is not limited to water as it flowed at any
preceding time. Alterations in the course of a stream do not affect
the power of Congress.
The public right of navigation follows the course of the stream.
It is for Congress to decide what shall or shall not be deemed in judgment of law an obstruction to navigation. Pennsylvania v. Wheeling Bridge Co., 18 How. 421.
Authority given by. Congress to the Secretary of War to establish
harbor lines is not exhausted in laying the lines once; the Secretary
may change them at subsequent times in order to protect navigation
from obstruction.
33 App. D. C. 338, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the construction and constitutionality of acts of Congress giving the Secretary of War
power to establish harbor lines in navigable waters of the
United States, and the validity and effect of the action of
the Secretary of War thereunder in regard to harbor lines
established by him in the harbor of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. William L. Marbury, with whom Mr. Morgan H.
Beach, Mr. W. Graham Bowdoin and Mr. Samuel McClay
were on the brief, for appellant:
It was manifestly in the interest of navigation, as well
as for the protection of riparian owners, that the legislature of Pennsylvania enacted Chapter 363 of the Acts of
1858, to establish high and low water lines in the Allegheny, Monongahela and Ohio rivers in the vicinity of
Pittsburgh, in Allegheny County.
The effect of this act and of the proceedings so taken
thereunder was to secure to the owners of land along these
rivers complete protection against any loss of their land
or right tb build upon the same because of any subsequent
encroachment of the waters.- Bridge Co. v. Pfeil, 42 Pitts.
Leg. Jour. 18.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Appellant.

223 U. S.

Rights of riparian owners on navigable waters, including
the question of how far, if at all, their title to land shall
be deemed to be affected by the action of the water, are
determined and governed by the laws of the respective
States. Shively v. Bowlby, 152 U. S. 1; Barney v. Keokuk,
94 U. S. 324; St. Louis v. Meyers, 113 U. S. 566; Water
Power Co. v. Water Commissioners, 168 U. S. 349; Packer
v. Bird, 137 U. S. 661.
In Pennsylvania the soil up to low-water mark in a
navigable stream is the property of the Commonwealth.
Monongahela Bridge Co. v. Kirk, 46 Pa. St. 112, 120.
Even if the overflowing -of the complainant's property
caused by the construction by the Government in improving the harbor might be damnum absque injuria,the owner
of the property has the right to protect himself against
such injury, if he can, at his own expense, either by excluding or expelling the water. Monongahela Navigation Co. v.
United States, 148 U. S. 312, 336.
But, even though the Pennsylvania act of 1858 had
never been passed, upon the facts appearing in this case the
title of the plaintiff as the owner of Brunot's Island to the
submerged land lying inside islandward of the commissioners' line of 1865 remains absolute.
If the waters of the river had encroached gradually and
by imperceptible degrees upon the island, as it existed in
1865, so that the land now in dispute gradually became
part of the bed of the river covered with navigable water,
in the absence of any such statute as the act of 1858 above
quoted, the owner of Brunot's Island would have lost title
to the land thus submerged and the same would-have become the property of the State or of the municipality.
But, when as here, instead of the submergence or loss of
land being caused by the gradual and imperceptible encroachment of the water, it is caused by sudden floods
and freshets, the title of the owner of the island is not affected and he may at any time exclude the water or occupy

PHILADELPHIA CO. v. STIMSON.
223 U. S.

.609

Argument for Appellant.

the land itself submerged in any way he pleases. Rex v.
Lord Yarborough, 3 Barn. & C. 15; Angell, Tidewaters, 1st
ed., 71; Emans v. Turnbull, 2 Johns. 314; S. C., 3 Am. Dec.
427; 2 B1. Com. 261; Hargrave's Law Tracts, 28; Gould
on Waters, § 158 and cases cited; Mulry v. Norton, 100
N. Y. 424, citing Hargrave's Law Tracts (Matthew Hale's
De Jure Maris, 36-37); Cooke & Foster, M. 7 Jac. C. B.;
Morris v. Brooks, decided by the Court of Common Pleas
of Delaware; Wallace v. Driver, 31 L. R. A. (Ark.) 319;
Hunt on Boundaries, &c. 29.
So that the washing away by. freshets of the surface of
the soil of Brunot's Island inside of the commissioners'
line of 1865, which is admitted to be located upon what
was the actual high-water. mark at that time, has made no
alteration in the boundary of the island. That boundary
still remains where it was at that -time, to wit, on the
commissioners' line of 1865. St. Louis v. Rutz, 138 U. S.
226, 245. See also- Nebraska v. Iowa, 145 U. S. 519;
Widdecombe v. Rosemiller, 118 Fed. Rep. 295.
This proceeding is "not virtually a suit against the
United States," but a suit. to restrain the defendant, an
executive officer of the Federal Government, from exceeding his authority to the impairment of the property
rights of the claimant. United States v. Lee, 106 U. S.
218, 219; Noble v. Union River Logging Railroad, 147
U. S. 171; School of Magnetic Healing v. McAnnulty, 187
U. S. 108; Scott v. Donald, 165 U. S. 112; In re Tyler, 149
U. S. 164; Osborn v. Bank of the United States, 9 Wheat.
842; New Orleans v. Paine, 147 U. S. 264; Louisiana State
Lottery Co. v. Fitzpatrick, 15 Fed. Cas. 986.
A court of equity will entertain a bill to restrain the
institution and prosecution of criminal proceedings, as
threatened in this case, for. the reason that such prosecution would interfere with, and, in effect destroy, the property rights of the complainant in the land in question.
Because in fact the prosecution of such proceedings would
VOL. ccxxiii-39

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Appellant.

223 U. S.

entirely deprive plaintiff of the use of its property and
constitute such a taking of private property for public
uses as a court of equity will always enjoin. Davis &
Farnum Mfg. Co. v. Los Angeles, 189 U. S. 207; Central
Trust Co. v. Citizens' Street Railway Co., 80 Fed. Rep. 225;
Louisiana State Lottery Co. v. Fitzpatrick, 15 Fed. Cases,
986; Dobbins v. Los Angeles, 195 U. S. 241; City of Hutchinson v. Beckham, 118 Fed. Rep. 401; Greenwich Ins. Co.
v. Carroll, 125 Fed. Rep. 126; Frewin v. Lewis, 4 Mylne
& Craig, 249; Baltimore v. Radeke, 48 Maryland, 217;
Georgia R. R. Co. v. Atlanta, 118 Georgia, 490; Lewis on
Eminent Domain, par. 56; Osborne v. Missouri Pac. Ry.
Co., 147 U. S. 258, 259; Eaton v. B. C. & At. R. R. Co.,
51 N. H. 511-512.
Complainant does not contend that the mere establishing of the harbor lines complained of, and the requiring of
the plat in the office of the Secretary .of War, unaccompanied by the taking of any active measures on the part
of the defendant to actually interfere with the complainant
in the use of its property, would have furnished sufficient
ground for the interference of a court of equity, as by injunction, as the mere establishing of harbor lines unaccompanied by any such action does not constitute such a
cloud upon. the complainant's title to his land or such invasion of his rights as would justify such relief. But the
facts of this case at bar are exactly the reverse of the facts
of Yesler v. Washington Harbor Line Commissioners, 146
U. S...646, 656, and Prosser v. N. P. Ry. Co., 152 U. S.
59.
The fact that the land of the plaintiff of which the defendan is depriving the plaintiff the possession by threatening it with criminal prosecution if it uses said landwhich in other words the defendant is attempting to take
without compensation-is not located in the District of
Columbia, does not deprive the Supreme Court of the
District of. jurisdiction. Stone v. United States, 167 U. S.

PHILADELPHIA CO. v. STIMSON. 223 U. S.

611

Argument for Appellee.

169; Cole v. Cunningham, 133 U. S. 107; Phelps v. McDonald, 99 U. S. 298.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Knaebel for appellee:
The harbor line was lawfully established.
As riparian owner with. or without the fee of the river
bed, the appellant is in no position to complain of the new
harbor line. No "taking" of property is involved in the
incidental losses which result to such an owner from the
exercise by Congress of its paramount power to improve
and protect navigation. The navigable waters are the
public property of the nation, and subject to all the requisite legislation by Congress. Gilman v. Philadelphia,
3 Wall. 725; South Carolina v. Georgia, 93 U. S. 4, 11;
Mobile v. Kimball, 102 U. S. 691, 697; Gibson v. United
States, 166 U. S. 269; Scranton v. Wheeler, 57 Fed. Rep.
803; S. C., 179 U. S. 141; Hawkins Point Light-House Case,
39 Fed. Rep. 77; United States v. Rio Grande Dam &c. Co.,
174 U. S. 690, 708; Union Bridge Company v. United
States, 204 U. S. 364, 400. A permission granted by the
State years ago, but not acted on, cannot survive in the
face of a sweeping policy of Congress.
The bill does not exhibit facts sufficient to show that
the change in this instance was one of avulsion or submergence.
.There is no, allegation that the change occurred perceptibly. Jefferis Case, 134 U. S. 178. The rapidity with
which floods and freshets wore away the bank, if they wore.
it at all, would depend upon a variety, of physical conditions.. They might wear rapidly, or gradually, or not at
all; they might well add to instead of subtracting from,
the soil. The law is concerned only with the degree of
speed with which the diminution takes place, but as to
this the bill is wholly silent.
The difference between the processes is found in the
fact that the operation of the one is sudden and its results

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Appellee.

223 U. S.

perceptible in their progress, while the other operates so
gradually that the eye does not observe the inward movement of the water. County of St. Clair v. Lovingston, 23
Wall. 46, 47; Jefferis v. East Omaha Land Co., 134 U. S.
178; Nebraska v. Iowa, 143 U. S. 359, 361.
Admitting that the change was by a process akin to
avulsion, and conceding freely the power of the State to do
away with the common law of accretion and erosion entirely, and establish a permanent boundary for the plaintiff's land, that has nothing to do with the matter of protecting navigation. So far as the General Government is
concerned, appellant is simply in the position of a riparian
proprietor, owning the fee as far out as the Commissioners'
line, subject to have his use of it regulated in the interest
of commerce under the authority of Congress.,
The court was without jurisdiction. Boston &c. Mining Co. v. Montana Ore Co., 188 U. S. 632, 639; Dredging
Co. v. Morton, 28 App. D. C. 288. The suit cannot possibly be other than a suit against the United States.
Prosser v. Northern Pacific Railroad, 152 U. S. 59; Yesler
v. Washington Harbor Line Commissioners, 146 U. S. 646;
S. C., sub nom. Board of Harbor Line Commissioners v.
State, 2 Washington, 530; 27 Pac. Rep. 550; Harkrader
v. Wadley, 172 U. S. 148, 169; Ex parte Young, 209 U. S.
203, distinguished; and see Fitts v. McGhee, 172 U. S. 516.
The suit, therefore, is in effect a suit against the United
States. Minnesota v. Hitchcock, 185 U. S. 386; Board v.
McComb, 92 U. S. 531; Oregon v. Hitchcock, 202 U. S. 60.
It is. a palpable attempt to prejudge the merits of a criminal prosecution which the Attorney General would have
a perfect right, and, indeed, would be under a duty, to institute if, in his best judgment, he should conclude that the
harbor line was lawfully established.
The case is also clearly not such a suit as ought to be
entertained by the court as a court of equity. It is objectionable from this standpoint in the first place as a

PHILADELPHIA CO. v. STIMSON.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

pure attempt to enjoin valid criminal proceedings. In
re Sawyer, 124 U. S. 200, 209, 210; Harkraderv. Wadley,
172 U. S. 148, 170; Fitts v. McGhee, supra.
Furthermore, only one punishment would be involved
under the act of 1899 by the construction of the wharf beyond the harbor line. In that respect also the case differs
greatly from the Young Case. There could be no multiplicity of prosecutions or cumulation of drastic penalties.
Neither does it appear that great and irreparable loss will
result from delaying the construction of the proposed
wharf.
The harbor line produces no cloud upon the title and
does not for any other reason afford a ground of equitable interference, as was fully determined by this court in
Prosser v. Northern Pacific Railroad Company, supra.
MR. JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of the

court.
This suit was brought in the Supreme Court of theDistrict of Columbia to set aside certain harbor lines in
the harbor of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, so far as they
encroached upon land owned by the complainant, and to
restrain the Secretary of War from causing criminal proceedings to be instituted against the complainant because
of the reclamation and occupation of its land outside the
prescribed limits. The Court of Appeals of the District
affirmed a decree sustaining a demurrer to the bill, and
the complainant appeals.
The allegations of the bill, in substance, are as follows:
The complainant, a corporation of the Commonwealth
of Pennsylvania, is the owner in fee of "Brunot's Island,"
formerly Chartier's or Hamilton's Island, in the Ohio
River, in Allegheny County, Pennsylvania. In 1858, a
statute was enacted in Pennsylvania providing for the
appointment of commissioners to ascertain and mark the

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

lines of ordinary high and low water in the Allegheny,
Monongahela and Ohio rivers in the vicinity of Pittsburgh.
The act recited that the lines of land along the shores of
the rivers had not been clearly ascertained, and it was important to all persons interested that their several rights
and privileges should be defined. After the Commissioners' surveys had been completed and the lines located, opportunity was to be afforded in the court, by which they
were appointed, for any needed corrections; and the map
or plan finally determined upon was to be recorded. The
statute declared that "the lines so approved shall forever
after be deemed, adjudged and taken firm and stable for
the purposes aforesaid." Proceedings were had accordingly and the high and low-water lines along the shore of
Brunot's Island were definitely fixed. In consequence the
bill asserts that all the land, whether or not under water,
inside of the Commissioners' lines became the property
of the owners of Brunot's Island; and that by virtue of
the statute, and the action of the Commissioners under
it in fixing the high-water line as a permanent boundary,
the right of the owners of the island to accretions beyond
that line was taken away, while at the same time they
were no longer subject to loss or diminution of their land
by reason of its submergence "through the avulsion of
floods or freshets or through gradual erosion."
Subsequent to the establishment, in 1865, of the State
Coynmissioners' line, a considerable portion of the shore
of the island, "on the so-called back channel, within the
said high water mark," was washed away from time to
time by heavy floods and freshets, so that a large part of
the upland was slightly submerged, but not to an extent
sufficient to permit of navigation. Some years ago, the
United States Government, in order to increase the depth
of water in the harbor of Pittsburgh, caused a dam to be
constfructed across the Ohio River a short distance below
Brunot's Island, known as the Davis Island Dam. And

PHILADELPHIA CO. v. STIMSON.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the effect of this dam, says the bill, by the increase of the
depth of water in the channel, was to submerge Brunot's
Island to a far greater extent and to make the water over
the complainant's land navigable "at certain times, and
for certain purposes," where it was not navigable before.
In 1895, the Secretary of War, claiming to act under the
authority of § 12 of the act of Congress of September 19,
1890, and knowing that the shore of Brunot's Island had
been washed away by floods and freshets, established a
harbor line which ran across the complainant's land
within the line of the State Commissioners. It is further
alleged that although the submerged land was generally
covered by water, "it was not ordinarily navigable water,"
and "has never constituted, nor does it now constitute a
part of the public navigable waters of the United States;"
that no authority was conferred by the act of Congress
upon the Secretary of War to regulate or interfere with
the use of the complainant's' land by the establishment
of harbor lines upon the same; and that even if the water
over this land was in fact part of the public navigable
waters of the United States, without being rendered thus
navigable by the construction of the dam, still the Secretary of War had no right so to run the harbor line over
the land in question as to deprive the complainant of its
use and enjoyment. It was the right of the complainant,
the bill avers, to repair the damage caused by floods and
freshets and to reclaim the submerged portion by filling in
or wharfing, "keeping at all times within the lines of the
part that had been torn away by the violence of the
waters."
In 1907, the Secretary of War, claiming authority under
§ 11 of the act of Congress of March 3, 1899, against the
complainant's protest, changed the harbor line. The
report of the United State engineer at Pittsburgh stated
that the conditions of high and low water had not changedsince 1895, but as along a part of the shore of the island,

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

the harbor line of 1895 ran several hundred feet outside
high-water mark as it then existed, it seemed advisable to
change it so as to coincide with the actual high-water mark.
A copy of the report with the order of the Secretary of
War, dated February 23, 1907, was annexed to the bill and
made a part of it. In this it is stated that the location of
the proposed harbor lines was within the bed of the stream
as it existed as a physical fact.
The-bill further shows that to facilitate the delivery of
coal for the operation of its power house on the island,
the complainant desired to reclaim a part of it which had
been submerged by establishing a coal wharf on the back
channel, where both the harbor line of 1895 and that of
1907 "ran some distance landward of the said State commissioners' high water line." According to the proposed
plans, the wharf or pier was to extend over the complainant's land and to cross both of the harbor lines to the
State commissioners' line. While these plans were being
perfected, the Secretary of War, through his representative, the United States engineer officer at Pittsburgh,
declared to the complainant that it had no right to build
upon its land across either of the harbor lines, and he
refused to permit the complainant to reclaim its land or
to build its wharf thereon outside the harbor line of 1907.
He threatened that if it undertook to do so, he would
prevent it and cause the complainant and its employ~s
"to be prosecuted and fined by the authorities of the
Federal Government" for violations of the acts of Congress
of September 19, 1890 (26 Stat. 426, c. 907), and March 3,
1899 (30 Stat. 1151, c. 425). It was further charged that
if the Secretary of War had authority to fix the original
harbor line of 1895, that his power was exhausted by what
was then done, and that the harbor line of 1907 was
wholly unauthorized.
In consequence of the severe penalties prescribed by
the acts of Congress for the construction of buildings,

PHILADELPHIA CO. v. STIMSON.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

piers or wharves outside any harbor line established by
the Secretary of War and by reason of the defendant's
threats of prosecution in case the complainant carried out
its plan of reclamation and the construction of its wharf,
the bill avers that the complainant is prevented from
making use of its property; that the defendant's action
constitutes a taking of its property for public use without
just compensation; that it is subjected in its endeavor,
so long as the harbor line remains unmodified, to a multiplicity of criminal prosecutions; and that the harbor line
is a cloud upon its title.
The provisions of the acts of Congress, referred to in the
bill, are set forth in the margin.'
Section 12 of the act of September 19, 1890; (Chap. 907, 26 Stat.
426, 455), provided:
"SEc. 12. That section twelve of the river and harbor act of August eleventh, eighteen hundred and eighty-eight, be amended and reenacted so as to read as follows:
"Where it is made manifest to the Secretary of War that the establishment of harbor-lines is essential to the preservation and protection
of harbors, he may, and is hereby authorized, to cause such lines to be
established, beyond which no piers, wharves, bulk-heads or other
works shall be extended or deposits made, except under such regulations as may be prescribed from time to time by him; and any person
who shall willfully violate the provisions of this section, or any rule or
regulation made by the Secretary of War in pursuance of this section,
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and, on conviction thereof,
shall be punished by a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars, or imprisonment not exceeding one year, at the discretion of the court for
each offense."
Sections 11, 12 and.17 of the act of March 3, 1899, (Chap. 425, 30
Stat. 1121, 1151-1153), are as follows:
"SEc. 11. That where it is made manifest to the Secretary of War
that the establishment of harbor lines is essential to the preservation
and protection of harbors he may, and is hereby, authorized to cause
such lines to be established, beyond which no piers, wharves, bulkheads, or other works shall be extended or deposits made, except under
such regulations as may be prescribed from time to time by him: Provided, That whenever the Secretary of War grants to any person or

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

In demurring to the bill the defendant asserted that it
was bad in substance, and also specially assigned the following grounds,
"1. This proceeding is virtually a suit against the
United States.
"2. This Court has no jurisdiction to restrain the enforcement of a penalty or prosecution for violation of law.
"3. This Court has no jurisdiction to restrain the defendant from instituting criminal proceedings against
complainant.
"4. This Court has no jurisdicion to declare or define
harbor lines or boundary lines of land outside the District
of Columbia and in the State of Pennsylvania.
persons permission to extend piers, wharves, bulkheads, or other
works, or to make deposits in any tidal harbor or river of the United
States beyond any harbor lines established under authority of the
United States, he shall cause to be ascertained the amount of tide
water displaced by any such structure or by any such deposits, and he
shall, if he deem it necessary, require the parties to whom the permission is given to make compensation for such displacement either by
excavating in some part of the harbor, including tide-water channels
between high and low water mark, to such an extent as to create a
basin for as much tide water as may be displaced by such structure or
by such deposits, or in any other mode that may be satisfactory to him.
"SE c. 12. That every person and every corporation that shall violate any of the provisions of sections nine, ten, and eleven of this Act,
or any rule or regulation made by the Secretary of War in pursuance
of the provisions of the said section fourteen, shall be deemed guilty of
a misdemeanor, and on conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine
not exceeding twenty-five hundred dollars nor less than five hundred
dollars, or by imprisonment (in the case of a natural person) not exceeding one year, or by both such punishments, in the discretion of the
court. And further, the removal of any structures or parts of structures
erected in violation of the provisions of the said sections may be enforced by the injunction of any circuit court exercising jurisdiction in
any district in which such structures may exist, and proper proceedings to this end may be instituted under the direction of the AttorneyGeneral of the United States.
"SEC. 17. That the Department of Justice shall conduct the legal

PHILADELPHIA CO. v. STIMSON.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"5. There is no jurisdiction in this Court to pass any
decree removing cloud upon an alleged title of complainant in realty in the State of Pennsylvania,, nor to accomplish the same by declaring the harbor lines referred
to in the bill null and void."
First. If the conduct of the defendant constitutes an
unwarrantable interference with property of the Complainant, its resort to equity for protection is not to be
defeated upon the ground that the suit is one against the
United States. The exemption of the United States from
suit does not protect its officers from personal liability to
persons whose rights of property they have wrongfully
proceedings necessary to enforce the foregoing provisions of sections
nine to sixteen, inclusive, of this Act; and it shall be the duty of district attorneys of the United States to vigorously prosecute all offenders against the same whenever requested to do so by the Secretary
of War or by any of the officials hereinafter designated, and it shall
furthermore be the duty of said district attorneys to report to the
Attorney-General of the United States the action taken by him against
offenders so reported, and a transcript of such reports shall be transmitted to the Secretary of War by the Attorney-General; and for the
better enforcement of the said provisions and to facilitate the detection
and bringing to punishment of such offenders, the officers and agents of
the United States in charge of river and harbor improvements, and the
assistant engineers and inspectors employed under them by authority
of the Secretary of War, and the United States collectors of customs
and other revenue officers, shall have power and authority to swear
out process and to arrest and take into custody, with or without process, any person or persons who may commit any of the acts or offenses
prohibited by the aforesaid sections of this Act, or who may violate
any of the provisions of the same: Provided, That no person shall be
arrested without process for any offense not committed in the presence
of some one of the aforesaid officials: And provided further, That whenever any arrest is made under the provisions of this Act, the persons so
arrested' shall be brought forthwith before a commissioner, judge, or
court of the Upited States for examination of the offenses alleged
against him; and such commissioner, judge, or court shall proceed -in
respect thereto as authorized by law in* case of crimes against the
United States."

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

invaded. Little v. Barreme, 2 Cranch, 170; United States
v. Lee, 106 U. S. 196, 220, 221; Belknap v. Schild, 161 U. S.
10, 18; Tindal v. Wesley, 167 U. S. 204; Scranton v.
Wheeler, 179 U. S. 141, 152. And in case of an injury
threatened by his illegal action, the officer cannot claim
immunity from injunction process. The principle has
frequently been applied with respect to state officers seeking to enforce unconstitutional enactments. Osborn v.
Bank of United States, 9 Wheat. 738, 843, 868; Davis v.
Gray, 16 Wall. 203; Pennoyer v. McConnaughy, 140 U. S.
1, 10; Scott v. Donald, 165 U. S. 107, 112; Smyth v. Ames,
169 U. S. 466; Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 123, 159, 160;
Ludwig v. Western Union Telegraph Co., 216 U. S. 146;
Herndon v. C., R. I.& P. Ry. Co., 218 U. S. 135, 155;
Hopkins v. Clemson College, 221 U. S. 636, 643-645. And
it is equally applicable to a Federal officer acting in excess
of his authority or under an authority not validly conferred. Noble v. Union River Logging R. R. Co., 147 U. S.
165, 171, 172; School of Magnetic Healing v. McAnnulty,
187 U. S. 94.
The complainant did not ask the court to interfere with
the official discretion of the Secretary of War, but challenged his authority to do the things of which complaint
was made. The suit rests upon the charge of abuse of
power, and its merits must be determined accordingly; it
is not a suit against the United States.
Second. The second and third grounds of demurrer,
specially stated, raise the question as to the jurisdiction
of the court to restrain the defendant from instituting
criminal proceedings.
A court. of equity, said this court in In re Sawyer, 124
U. S.200, 210, "has no jurisdiction over the prosecution,
the punishment or the pardon of crimes or nisdemeanors. .. . . To assume such a jurisdiction, or to sustain a bill in equity to restrain or relieve against proceedings for the punishment of offenses, . . . is to invade

PHILADELPHIA CO. v. STIMSON.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the domain of the courts of common law, or of the execu-.
tive and administrative department of the government."
Harkraderv. Wadley, 172 U. S. 148, 170; Fitts v. McGhee,
172 U. S. 516, 531; 2 Story's Eq. Jur., § 893. But a distinction obtains when it is found to be essential to the
protection qf the property rights, as to which the jurisdiction of a court of equity has been invoked, that it should
restrain the defendant from instituting criminal actions
involving the same legal questions. This is illustrated
in the decisions of this court in which officers have been
enjoined from bringing criminal proceedings to compel
obedience to unconstitutional requirements. Davis &
Farnum Mfg. Co. v. Los Angeles, 189 U. S. 207, 217, 218;
Dobbins v. Los Angeles, 195 U. S. 223, 241; Ex pare
Young, 209 U. S. 123, 161, 162; Western Union Telegraph
Co. v. Andrews, 216 U. S. 165. In this, there is no attempt to restrain a court from trying persons charged
with crime, or the grand jury from the exercise of its
functions, but the injunction binds the defendant not to
resort to criminal procedure to enforce illegal demands.
It is urged that the statute authorizing the Secretary of
War to prevent encroachments upon navigable streams is
a valid one, and that the decisions cited do not apply.
The validity of the statute is not attacked, because of the'
assumption that it is not to be construed to contemplate
or authorize the alleged deprivation of property. Where
the officer is proceeding under an unconstitutional act, its
invalidity suffices to show that he is without authority,
and it is this absence of lawful power and his abuse of authority in imposing or enforcing in the name of the State
unwarrantable exactions or restrictions, to the irreparable
loss of the complainant, which is the basis of the decree.
Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. p. 159. And a similar injury may
be inflicted, and there may exist ground for equitable
relief, when an officer, insisting that he has the warrant
of the statute, is transcending its bounds, and thus un-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

lawfully assuming to exercise the power of government
against the individual owner, is guilty of an invasion of
private property.
By § 12 of the act of March 3, 1899 (30 Stat. 1151,
c. 425), it was provided that every person and every corporation which should violate any provision of § 11,
relating to the observance of harbor lines, or any rule or
regulation made by the Secretary of War in pursuance of
that section, should be guilty of a misdemeanor and punished by fine or imprisonment. By § 17 it was made the
duty of district attorneys of the United States to prosecute all offenders whenever requested by the Secretary
of War. If the complainant's rights, as against the defendant, were as claimed, it was entitled to adequate protection. And, in such case, the remedy might properly
embrace the restraining of unfounded prosecutions.
Third. The fourth and fifth special grounds of demurrer
assert that the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia
had no jurisdiction to define boundaries in the State of
Pennsylvania, or to remove a cloud upon title to land in
that State.
In dealing with these objections, it is important to
observe the precise nature of the suit. It was not to
determine a controversy as between conflicting claimants under the local law. It was not to restrain trespass.
Northern Indiana R. R. Co. v. Michigan Central R. R. Co.,
15 How. 233; Ellenwood v. Marietta Chair Co., 158 U. S.
105. It was not brought to try the naked question of the
title to the land. Massie v. Watts, 6 Cranch, 148, 158.
While the complainant's title lay at the foundation of the
suit, and it would be necessary for the complainant to
prove it, if denied, still if its title to the land under water
were established or admitted to be as alleged, the ques-tion would remain whether the defendant in imposing
restrictions upon the use of the property was acting by
virtue of authority validly conferred by a general act of

PHILADELPHIA CO. v. STIMSON.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Congress. This was the principal question which the
complainant sought to have determined. The defendant
is within the District, amenable to the process of the
court. There is no ground upon which it may be denied
jurisdiction to decide whether he should be restrained
from continuing his opposition to the complainant's plan
of improvement. Rather should it be said that the case
falls within the general rule sustaining the jurisdiction of
a court of equity which has control of. the person of the
defendant and may compel obedience to its decree.
Phelps v. McDonald, 99 U. S. 298, 308.
Fourth. Assuming that the court had jurisdiction, we
are brought to a consideration of the equity of the bill.
It has been held that the establishment of a general
system of harbor lines, for the protection of commerce
and navigation, is not of itself an injury to property and
cannot be restrained. Yesler v. Washington Harbor Line
Commissioners, 146 U. S. 646, 656; Prosser v. Northern
Pacific R. R. Co., 152 U. S. 59, 64, 65. But it has also
been recognized that a different question arises when
active measures are taken against an individual proprietor to maintain a location of limits in alleged violation of his private rights and thus to prevent him from
enjoying what is asserted to be the lawful use of his property. Prosser v. Northern Pacific R. R. Co., supra.
The complainant starts with the lines as laid down, in
1865, by the State Commissioners. These lines are
averred to be "exactly in accordance with the then existing actual ordinary high -and low water marks." The
argument is (1) that, independently of the effect of the
statute of Pennsylvania, the washing away of the banks,
and the submergence of a portion of the island, during the
subsequent years worked no loss of title, but that it remained absolute, including the right of reclamation and
improvement of the submerged land inside the former line
of high water; and (2) that, by virtue 'of the statute, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

boundary was permanently fixed by-the State Commissioners' high-water line and no subsequent encroachment of the
water could affect the rights of the owner.
(1) It is the established rule that a riparian proprietor
of land bounded by a stream, the banks of which are
changed by the gradual and imperceptible process of accretion or erosion, continues to hold to the stream as his
boundary; if his land is increased he is not accountable for
the gain, and if it is diminished he has no recourse for
the loss. But where a stream suddenly and perceptibly
abandons its old channel, the title is not affected and the
boundary remains at the former line. Rex v. Yarborough,
3 B. & C. 91; S. C., 2 Bligh, N. S. 147; Gifford v. Yarborough, 5 Bing. 163; New Orleans v. United States, 10
Pet. 662, 717; Banks v. Ogden, 2 Wall. 57; County of St.
Clair v. Louingston, 23 Wall. 46, 67, 68; Jefferis v. East
Omaha Land Co., 134 U. S. 178, 190-193; St. Louis v.
Rutz, 138 U. S. 226, 245; Nebraska v. Iowa, 143 U. S. 359;
Shively v. Bowlby, 152 U. S. 1, 35; Hale, De Jure Maris,
Ch. 1, 4, 6, Hargrave's Law Tracts; Mulry v. Norton, 100
N. Y. 424. The doctrine that the owner takes the risk of
the increase or diminution of his land by the action of the
water applies as well to rivers that are strong and swift,
to those that overflow their banks, and whether or not
dykes and other defenses are necessary to keep the water
within its proper limits. It is when the chapage in the
stream is sudden, or violent, and visible, that the title remains the same. It is not enough that the change may be
discerned by comparison at two distinct points of time.
It must be perceptible when it takes place. "The test as
to what is gradual and imperceptible in the sense of the
rule is, that though the witnesses may see from time to
time that progress has been made, they could not perceive it while the process was going on." County of St.
Clair v. Lovingston, supra (p. 68).
We are confined to the allegations of the bill. We have

PHILADELPHIA CO. v. STIMSON.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

not the advantage of proof and findings, or even of a
particularized description in the bill itself, as to the precise character of the alterations in the banks of Brunot's
Island which took place during the long period to which
the bill refers. It is alleged "that subsequent to the establishment in 1865 by said Commissioners of the line of high
water mark, as aforesaid, a considerable amount of the
soil of the shore of said Brunot's Island on the so-called
back channel, within the said high water mark was washed
away from time to time by heavy floods and freshets, so
that a large part of the upland of the island, that is the
land above high water mark, became and was overflowed
and slightly submerged by water, but said land was not
submerged to an extent sufficient to permit of navigation
of any kind thereover." There is no other statement on
the point save that the bill asserts 'that the complainant
was entitled to reclaim "keeping at all times within the
lines of the part that had been torn away by the violence
of the waters.."
• It is manifest that these allegations are inadequate
to
support the complainant's contention. The determining
words are that the land was "washed away from time to
time by heavy floods and freshets," and the reference is
to what occurred in many years. This is far from a statement that at any particular time there was such a sudden,
violent, and visible change as to justify a departure from
the ordinary rile which governs accretion and diminution
albeit the stream suffer wide fluctuations in volume, the
current be swift, and the banks afford slight resistance to
encroachment.
For example, the general principle of accretion, which
has that of diminution as its correlative, applies to such
rivers as the Mississippi and the Missouri, notwithstanding the extent, and rapidity of the changes constantly
effected. Jefferis v. East Omaha Land Co., supra; Jones v.
Soulard, 24 How. 41; Saulet v. Shepherd, 4 Wall. 502;
VoL. ccxxiI--40

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

County of St. Clair v. Lovingston, supra; St. Louis v. Rutz,
supra. In Nebraskav. Iowa, supra, the question concerned
the boundary between the two States, which, by the acts
of admission, was the middle of the main channel of the
Missouri River. Between 1851 and 1877, in the vicinity
of Omaha, there were marked changes in the course of
this channel so that in the latter year it occupied a very
different bed from that through which it flowed in the
former year. The opinion of the court describes in detail
the physical conditions along the river. The court said
(pp. 368-370): "The current is rapid, far above the average of ordinary rivers; and by reason of the snows in the
mountains there are two well known rises in the volume
of its waters, known as the April and June rises. The
large volume of water pouring' down at the time of these
rises, with the rapidity of its current, has great and rapid
action upon the loose soil of its banks. . . . The
only thing which distinguishes this river from other
streams, in the matter of accretion, is' in the rapidity of
'the change caused by the velocity of the current; and this
in itself, in the very nature of things, works no change in
theprinciple underlying the rule of law in respect thereto.
,Our conclusions are that, notwithstanding the rapidity
of the changes in the course of the channel, and the washing from the one side and on to the other, the law of accretion controls on the Missouri 'River, as elsewhere; and
that not only in respect to the rights of individual landowners, but also in respect to the boundary lines between
States. The boundary, therefore, between Iowa and
Nebraska is a varying line, so far as affected by these
changes of diminution and accretion in the mere washing
of the waters of the stream." And, in the same case, the
decision clearly points the distinction between the losses
and gaing thus described, and an abrupt, visible change
where at one place, at a particular time, the river having
"pursued a course in the nature of an ox-bow, suddenly

PHILADELPHIA CO. v. STIMSON.
223 U. S.

627

Opinion of the Couit.

cut through the neck of the bow and made for itself a
new channel" (p. 370).
The present case falls within the category first mentioned, and according to general principles of law the
owner would bear the losses caused by the washings of
the river.
The bill also alleges that "some years ago the United
States Government, in the interest of navigation and in
order to increase the depth of water in the harbor of Pitt sburgh, caused a dam to be constructed across the Ohio
River a short distance below said Brunot's Island known
as the Davis Island Dam. The effect of this dam was to
very decidedly increase the depth of the water in the
channel'back of Brunot's -Island, and to cause the water
of the river to flow higher upon the land of your orator,
and to submerge same to a far greater xtent and in fact
to make said water which submerged your orator's land
navigable at certain times, and for certain purposes, which
was not navigable before the construction of said dam."
It will be observed that it is said that the United States
caused the erection of the dam in the interest of navigation. The complainant purchased the island subsequently,
in the year 1896. And we are not concerned here with the
question whether there was any appropriation of land of
the former owner by the United States and a cause of
action arose to recover its value. Gibson v. United States,
166 U. S.269; United States v. Lynah, 188 U. S.445; Bedford v. United States, 192 U. S.217; Manigault v. Springs,
199 U. S. 473; C., B. & Q.Ry. v. DrainageCommissioners,
200 U. S. 561, 583, 584. So far as the bill shows the dam
was lawfully built, and the allegations with respect to it
wholly fail to state any case entitling the, complainant
to relief by reason 6f its construction.
(2) The complainant, however, insists that the effect of
the Pennsylvania statute was to fix the boundary of the
island permanently at the State Commissioners' high-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

water line, and hence that within that line it was entitled
to make the desired reclamation and improvement.
This statute (act of sixteenth April, 1858), provided that
the Commissioners' lines approved by the court should
"forever after be deemed, adjudged and taken firm and
stable for the purposes aforesaid." The Supreme Court of
Pennsylvania has held that the purpose of the act was to
regulate the rights of the public in respect to navigation
and to prevent private rights from being exercised to the
prejudice of the public interest. Wainwright v. McCullough,
63 Pa. St. 66; Zug v. Commonwealth, 70 Pa. St. 138, 142;
Poor v. McClure, 77 Pa. St. 214, 219; Allegheny City v.
Moorehead, 80 Pa. St. 118, 139, 140. In Wainwright v.
McCullough (1869), supra, that court, holding that the
statute was not applicable to disputed boundaries between private owners, considered the navigable character
of the rivers to which it related, the extent of riparian
rights under the law of the State, and the meaning of the
act in the light of the mischief which it was intended to
correct. The court said (p. 73):
"In order to arrive at the legal effect of the lines established by the commissioners under that act, we must
ascertain its true purpose; and to reach this, it becomes
necessary to examine the navigable character of the rivers
Allegheny, Monongahela and Ohio, and the rights of the
riparian proprietors upon their banks. These rivers are
among the largest in the state; larger than the Schuylkill
and Lehigh, recognized as navigable in the early history
of the province, and have been repeatedly held by name
to be rivers naturally navigable, and therefore classed
with the Delaware and Susquehanna: Carson v. Blazer,
2 Binney, 478; Shrunk v. Schuylkill Nay. Co., 14 S. &
R. 79, 80; Hunter v. Howard, 10 S.& R. 244. Many acts
have been passed declaring tributaries of these rivers
navigable. But an act perhaps most pertinent to this
controversy is that of 8th April, 1785, 2 Sm. Laws, 317,

PHILADELPHIA CO. v. STIMSON.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

regulating the taking up of lands within the new purchase, of which the 13th section expressly excepts islands
in the Ohio, Allegheny and Delaware.
"This being the navigable character of the stream, the
rights of the. riparian owners are settled by numerous
decisions, a few of which may be referred to: Carson v.
Blazer, supra;Shrunk v. Schuylkill Nay. Co., supra; Ball v.
Slack, 2 Whart. 508; Zimmerman v. Union Canal Co.,
1 W. & S. 346; Bailey v. Miltenberger, 7 Casey, 37; McKeen v. Delaware Div. Canal Co., 13 Wright, 424; Tinicum
Fishing Co. v. Carter, 11 P. F. Smith, 21, opinion by
Sharswood, J., decided last winter at Philadelphia. From
these and other cases, it will appear that the absolute title
of the riparian proprietor extends to high-water mark
only, and that between ordinary high and ordinary low
water-mark, his title to the soil is qualified, it being subject to the public rights of navigation over it, and of improvement of the stream as a highway: He cannot occupy
to the prejudice of navigation or cause obstructions to be
placed upon the shore between these lines, without express
authority of the state.
"The case of Bailey v. Miltenberger, 7 Casey, 37, decided. in 1856, doubtless had something to do in turning
public attention to the shores of the streams surrounding
the city of Pittsburg, which led to the passage of the Act
of 1858, for the purpose of defining the low and high waterlines. It referred to the mistaken idea entertained by
some proprietors of making ground for their mills, by
depositing cinders on the shore between low and high
water marks. 'The Allegheny and many other navigable
rivers' (says the opinion) 'do not, at the time of low water,
occupy over one-third of their bed; and it would be most
disastrous to allow every owner to fill out his land to low
water-mark.' This state of affairs, for these rivers had
been seriously encroached upon at and opposite Pittsburg,

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

no doubt led to the Act of 16th April, 1858, Pamph. L. 326.
It begins by a recital, 'Whereas, The lines of lands on and
along the shores at the rivers at and near the city of Pittsburg, in the county of Allegheny, have never yet been
clearly ascertained, and as it is important to the owners
of such lands, the persons navigating the waters of, and
the corporations adjacent to, such rivers, and to all parties
interested, to know and to have their several rights and
privileges in extension and limitation ascertained and
defined; therefore,' &c. The first impression arising from
this language might seem to be that the law was intended
to ascertain and fix these high and low water lines to end
all controversies, private as well as public. But a careful
consideration of its purpose and provisions shows that it
is not applicable to disputed boundaries between private
owners, but was intended to regulate the respective rights
of the public and the landowners, over whose property
tlhe right of navigation extends between high and low
water lines.
"The effect of the lines as established is thus stated:
'the lines so approved shall for ever after be deemed,
adjudged and taken, firm and stable for the purposes
aforesaid.' If we seek for the 'aforesaid' purposes, the
act discloses none but those relating to the public interest
and that of the riparian owner. Then if we advert to the
power of the state over navigable streams, as stated in
the authorities cited, we discover that. it is plenary over
the subject of navigation and the improvement of these
natural channels of commerce, while the ownership of
t'he riparian proprietor is qualified between the lines of
low and high water. The legislature may, therefore, with
great propriety define the bounds of high and low water, by
means of a suitable commission, for the purpose of regulating the public right, so as not to conflict with private interests, and to prevent private rights from being exercised

PHILADELPHIA CO. V'.STIMSON.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to the prejudice of public interests; for example, to prevent
the shores from being filled up with great banks of cinders."
In Allegheny City v. Moorehead (1875), supra, the question was presented whether by the fixing of water lines
,under the act of 1858, title had been vested in the city of
Allegheny or lot owners, so as to defeat the claim of the
plaintiff Moorehead under a subsequent patent from the
State. The court said (p. 139): "Nor can the operation
of the Act of 1858 be extended by the act of the comnnissioners in running out the low-water line of the northern
shore of the river to include a part of what was Killbuck
island. It was not the purpose of the commissioners to
transfer titles, but to mark the boundaries of riparian
rights, so as to make them certain and permanent in their
extent. So it was not the intention of the framers of the
Act of 1858 to pass titles to lands, or to ascertain boundaries between individuals; but it was their purpose to
regulate the right of navigation along the shores of these
rivers by establishing high- and low-water lines, which
would definitely ascertain and fix the extent to which the
right could be exercised; and the extent to which the
owners of the land could exercise their own rights under
the law of the state."
It is contended for the complainant that, the effect of
the statute was to secure to riparian owners complete
protection against any loss of their land, or of the right to
build upon it, by reason of the gradual washing away
of the banks of the river; that the State chose to resign
to the riparian proprietors its right to such additions from
the moving landward of the low-water mark, and required
the owner at the same time to surrender in the interest of
navigation his right to alluvion. In support, the complainant cites the opinion of. the Court of Common Pleas
No. 2 of Allegheny County in Briggs v. Pheil (1894), 42
Pittsburgh Legal Journal, p. 18, in which it is said with
respect to the -same statute: "At the passage of this act

632.:

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

the riparian owner owned absolutely to high water mark,
and had a qualified property to low water mark, and outside of the low water mark the. title to the soil was in the
State. It seems .to us there can be no doubt that the
State had power to enact that thereafter the legal limits
of the 'property should remain unchanged, either by
gradual accretions or by gradual cutting away. This in
our opinion Was intended to be done and was done by the
Act of Assembly and the proceedings thereunder.
It seems to us that the establishing of these lines, .at least,
as between the State and ripiarian owners, fixed the lines
for the. future.-- If the river washes in beyond the high
water line the owner may fill up and reclaim the lost land,
and on the other hand accretions belong to the State
or-the municipalities."
The established doctrine is invoked that the title to the
soil-under navigable waters within their territorial limits,
and the extent of riparian rights, are governed by the laws
of theseveral States, subject to the authority of Congress
under the Constitution of the United States. Martin v.
Waddell, 16 Pet. 367; Pollard v. Hagan, 3 How. 212;
Weber v. Harbor Commissioners, 18 Wall. 57; Barney v.
Keokuk, 94 U. S. 324, 338; Packer v. Bird, 137 U. S. 661,
669; St. Louis v. Rutz, 138 U. S. 226, 242; Hardin v.
Jordan,: 140 U. S. 371, 382, 402; Illinois Central R. R. Co.
v. Illinois; 146 U. S. 387, 435,452; Shively v. Bowiby, 152
U. S. 1, 40-47; Water Power Co. v. Water Commissioners,
168 U. S. 349, 365." Let it be assumed, that the Pennsylvania statute in its regulation of rights, established the
Comnmissioners' high-water line as the permanent boundary
of the island and conferred upon the riparian owner, so
far as it was within the.competency of the State to confer
it, the right to fill in and to erect structures to the limit
of this. line, regardless of subsequent changes in the actual
high-water line caused by the washing away of the banks
of the river. What, then, was the power of Congress with

PHILADELPHIA CO. v. STIMSON.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

respect to the river and what was the extent of the authority conferred upon the Secretary of War?
When the Secretary of War, in 1895, fixed harbor lines
he dealt with the stream as it then' existed. Whatever
right the owner of the island may have had under the
state law to reclaim the submerged land within the former
line of high water, had not been exercised. The bill, in
alleging that the new harbor line ran across the complainant's land, must be taken to refer to the submerged
land already described. This is the import of its allegations and is shown by the record of the War Department
annexed to the bill. In establishing this line, the Secretary of War followed quite closely the actual line of high
water as it existed in 1895, except in the back channel of
Brunot's Island where it ran several hundred feet outside
the then high-water mark. The change of the harbor
line'at this point, in 1907, was for the purpose of making
the line coincide with the actual high-water mark and in
the report of the United States engineer who advised the
change it was said that the lines as previously established
had "not been filled out to, and the river bed on the Brunot
Island side, and in the bend referred to" was in "essentially the same condition" as at the time the harbor lines
of 1895 were fixed. He added:
"Pittsburgh suffers annually from floods and in my
opinion any material contraction of the channel immedi-.
ately below the city would result in general injury and
would produce conditions detrimental to navigation and
to harborage, and it is respectfully recommended that the
changes in the established harbor lines shown and described on the map inclosed herewith be made, such
changes being necessary in preserving and protecting the
harbor of Pittsburgh,
"The location of the proposed harbor lines recommended in this communication is within the bed of the
stream as it exists as a physical fact."

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

To this stream; as a highway of commerce, the power
of Congress extended; a power which "acknowledges no
limitations other than are prescribed in the Constitution."
Gibbons v. Ogden,, 9 Wheat. 1, 196. The exercise of this
pQwer could not be fettered by any grant made by the
State of the soil which formed the bed of the river, or by
any authority conferred by the State for the creation
of obstructions to its navigation. "Commerce includes
navigation. The power to regulate commerce comprehends the control for that purpose, and to the extent
necessary, of all the navigable waters of the United States
which are accessible from a State other than those in
which they lie. For this purpose they are the public
property of the nation, and subject to all requisite legislation by Congress. This necessarily includes the power to
keep them open and free from obstructions to their navigation, interposed by the States or otherwise; to remove
such obstructions when they exist; and to provide, by
such sanctions as they may deem proper, against the
occurrence of evil and for the punishment of offenders.
For these purposes, Congress possesses all the powers
which existed in the States before the adoption of the
national Constitution, and which have always existed in
the Parliament in England." Gilman v. Philadelphia,3
Wall. 713, 725.
Nor is the authority of Congress limited to so much of
the water of the river as flows over the bed of forty years
ago. The alterations produced in the course of years by
the action of the water do not 'restrict the exercise of
Federal control in the regulation of commerce. Its bed
may vary and its,-banks may change, but the Federal
power remains paramount over the stream, and this control may not be defeated by the action of the State in
restricting the public right of navigation within the river's
ancient lines. The public right of navigation follows the
stream (Rolle's Abr. 390; Carlisle v. Graham, L. R. 4 Ex.

PHILADELPHIA CO. v. STIMSON.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

361, 367, 368) and the authority of Congress goes with it.
When the State of Pennsylvania established harbor lines
and thus undertook to regulate the rights of navigation,
its action, however effective as between the State and the
riparian proprietors, was necessarily subject to the paramount power of Congress. The state lines can be conceded no permanent force, as against the will of Congress,
without substituting for its constitutional authority the
supremacy of the State with respect to navigable waters.
It is for Congress to. decide what shall or shall not be
deemed in judgment of law an obstruction of navigation.
Pennsylvania v. Wheeling and Belmont Bridge Co., 18 How.
421. And in its regulation of commerce it may establish
harbor lines or limits beyond which deposits shall not be
made or structures built in the navigable waters. The
principles applicable to this case have been repeatedly
stated in recent decisions of this court. Gibson v. United
States, 166 U. S. 269; Scranton v. Wheeler, 179 U. S. 141;
C., B. & Q. Ry. Co. v. Drainage Commissioners, 200 U. S.
561; West Chicago R. R. v. Chicago, 201 U. S. 506; Union
Bridge Co. v. United States, 204 U. S. 364; Monongahela
Bridge v. United States, 216 U. S. 177; Hannibal Bridge
Co. v. United States, 221 U. S. 194..
In Gibson v. United States, supra, the construction of a
dyke in the Ohio River under the authority of the Secretary of War had substantially destroyed the landing on
and in front of a farm owned by Mrs. Gibson "by preventing the free egress and ingress to and from said landing" to "the main or navigable channel" of the river.
The court said (pp. 271, 272, 275): "All navigable waters
are under the control of the United States for the purpose
of regulating and improving navigation, and although the
title to' the shore and submerged soil is in the various
States and individual owners under them, it is always subject to the servitude in respect of navigation created in
favor of the Federal government by the Constitution.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

South Carolina v. Georgia, 93 U. S. 4; Shively v. 'Bowlby,
152 U. S. 1; Eldridge v. Trezevant, 160 U. S. 452. .
The Fifth Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States provides that private property shall not 'be taken
for public use without just compensation.' Here, however,
the damage of which Mrs. Gibson complained was not the
result of the taking of any part of her property, whether
upland or sibmerged, or a direct invasion thereof, but
the incidental consequence of the -lawful and proper exercise of a governmental power."
Again, in Scranton v. Wheeler, supra, the question arose
with respect to the riparian owner whose access from his
land to navigability was permanently lost by reason of
the construction by the United States of a pier resting on
submerged lands in front of his upland. The court said in
its opinion (p. 163): "The primary use of the waters and
the lands under them is for purposes of navigation, and"
the erection of piers in them to improve navigation for the
public is entirely consistent with such use, and infringes
no right of the riparian owner. Whatever the nature of
the interest of a riparian owner in the submerged lands in
front of his upland bordering on a public navigable water,
his title is not as full and complete as his title to fast land
Which has no direct connection with the navigation of
such water. It is a qualified title, a bare technical title,
not at his absolute disposal, as is his upland, but to be
held at all times subordinate to such use of the submerged lands and of the waters flowing over them as may
be consistent with or demanded by the public right of
navigation."
In Union Bridge Co. "v.United States, supra, the Secretary of War found - bridge to be an unreasonable obstruction to the free navigati6n of the Allegheny Rivet and required the Bridge Company to make certain charig s
which it was insisted it could hot be compelled to make
without compensation. The court, after reviewing the

PHILADELPHIA CO. v. STIMSON.
223 U. S.

Opinion.of the Court.

authorities, said (pp. 400, 401): "Although the bridge,
when erected under the authority of a Pennsylvania
charter, may have been a lawful structure, and although
it may not have been an unreasonable obstruction to commerce and navigation as then carried on, it must be taken,
under the cases cited, and upon principle, not only that
the company when exerting the power conferred upon it
by the State; did so with knowledge of the paramount
authority of Congress to regulate commerce among the
States, but that-it erected the bridge subject to the possibility that Congress might; at some future time, when
the public interest demanded, exert its power by appropriate legislation to protect navigation against unreasonable obstructions. Even if the bridge, in its original form,
was an unreasonable obstruction to navigation, the mere
failure of the United States, at the time, to intervene by
its officers or by legislation and prevent its erection, could
not create an obligation on the part of the Government to
make compensation to the company if, at a subsequent
time' and for public reasons, Congress should forbid the
maintenance of bridges that had become unreasonable obstructions to navigation. It is for Congress to determine
when it will exert its power to regulate interstate commerce. Its mere silence or inaction when individuals or
corporations, under the authority of a State, place unreasonable obstructions in the waterways of the United
States, cannot have the effect to cast upon the Government an obligation not to exert its constitutional power
to regulate interstate commerce except subject to the
condition that compensation be made or secured to the
individuals or corporation who may be incidentally -af-.
febted by the exercise.of such power. The principle for
which the Bridge Company contends would seriously im-.
pair the exercise of the beneficent power of the Gov'ernment to secure the free and unobstructed navigation of
the waterways of the United States. We cannot give our

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

22a U. S.

assent to that principle. In conformity with the adjudged
cases, and in order that the constitutional power of Congress may have full operation, we must adjudge that Congress has power to protect navigation on all waterways of
the United States against unreasonable pbstructions, even
those created under the sanction of a State, and that an
order to so alter a bridge over a waterway of the United
States that it will cease to be an unreasonable obstruction
to navigation will not amount to a taking of private property for public use for which compensation need be made."
It must be concluded, therefore, that it was competent
for Congress to provide for the establishment of the
harbor lines in question. for the protection of the harbor of
Pittsburgh. It acted within its constitutional power in
authorizing the Secretary of War to fix the lines. Union
Bridge Co. v. United States, supra (pp. 385-388); Monongahela Bridge v. United States, supra (p. 192). That
officer did not exhaust his authority in laying the lines
first established in 1895, but was entitled to change them,
as he did change them in 1907, in order more fully to preserve the river from obstruction. And, in none of the acts
complained of, did he exceed the power which had been
conferred.
The bill failed to show any ground upon which the complainant was entitled to relief and it was properly dismissed.
Decree affirmed.

