OCTOBER TERM, 1911.

166

Syllabus.

223 U. S.

izing such bridge and to validate and confirm the bonds
issued or to be issued for the construction therefor."
We have not deemed it necessary to take into consideration the act of Congress-36 Stat., c. 253, p. 1348--ex-

pressly approving the authority granted to build the bridge
so far as the United States was concerned, and ratifying
any infirmity which might otherwise have arisen in that
regard.

It follows that the writ of error must be, and it is,
Dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

THE ABBY DODGE..
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.

No. 41.

Argued November 6, 7, 1911.-Decided February 19, 1912.

Each State owns the beds of all tide waters within its jurisdiction unless they have been granted away; also the tide waters themselves
and the fish in them so far as they are capable of ownership while
running. McCready v. Virginia, 94 U. S.. 391.
Congress has no control over sponges growing on Ithe land beneath
tide water within thejurisdiction of a State..
Where two interpretations of a statute are admissible, one of which
makes the statute constitutional and the other unconstitutional, the
former must be adopted. United States v. Delaware & Hudson Co.,
213 U. S. 366, 407.
The act of June 20, 1906, 34 Stat. 313, c, 3442, regulating the landing
of sponges at ports of the United States, relates only to sponges
taken outside of the. territory of any State..
The power of Congress over foreign commerce is complete;, no one has
a vested right to carry on foreign commerce with the United States.
Buitfield v. Stranahan, 192 U. S. 470..
Congress can, by exertion of its power to regulate foreign commerce,
1The
docket title of this -ase is The vessel "Abby Dodge," A.
kalimeris, Claimant, Appellant, v. The United States.

THE ABBY DODGE.
223 U. S.
Argument for Appellant.
forbid the importation of sponges gathered under conditions expressed in the act of June 20, 1906.
Where the act of Congress, under which forfeiture is sought, does not
apply to territorial waters, the libel must aver that the acts were
done outside of the territorial limits of any State.
When Congress, under its power to regulate foreign commerce, prohibits the importation of certain merchandise, it may cast on the
one seeking to bring merchandise in the burden of establishing that
it is exempt from the operation of the statute.
Under the circumstances of this case it is proper to allow the Government to amend the libel to present a case within the statute as construed in this opinion. The Mary Ann, 8 Wheat. 389.

facts, which involve the constitutionality and conStruction of the act of Congress of June 20, 1906, relating
to landing of sponges in ports of the United States, are
stated in the opinion.
THE

Mr. Edward R. Gunby, for appellant:

Congress had no power under the Federal Constitution
to pass the act of June 20, 1906. Marbury v. Madison,
1 Cranch, 137.
Under the wording of the act, sponges are prohibited
from being landed at any port of the United States, even
if t*ken within the waters of a State; and no element
whatever of interstate or foreign commerce is required to
enter into the act in order to make it a violation of law.
If the landing of an ordinary article of commerce is
commerce within the meaning of the law when commerce
is confined within the limits of a single State, Congress
has no power to regulate or control it. The Daniel Ball,
10 Wall. 557; The*Bright Star, Fed. Cases, No. 1880; King
v. The Am. Trans. Co., Fed. Cases, No. 7787; United
States v. New Bedford Bridge, Fed. Cases, No. 15,867;
United States v. Morrison, Fed. Cases, No. 15,465; Sinnot
v. Davenport, 22 How. 227.

Even if the acts controlled and regulated by the act of
Congress are matters of interstate commerce, if the same

168

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argun6ent for Appellant.

228 U. S.

are so blended with intrastate Commerce that the two
are inseparable, the act of Congress would be unconstitutional. Howard v. Ill. Cent. R. R. Co., 207 U. S.463;
Sears v. Warren, 36 Indiana, 267.
The people of the United States, as distinguished from
the people of the several States, have no common property in wild animals, oysters, fish, etc., within the boundaries of the several States, which will give them as citizens of the United States the right to legislate for the
preservation of such property within the limits of the
several States. The right .to legislate on this subject
being based upon the common ownership of the property,
the several States have this authority when they are
erected; but neither the States nor the United States have
this authority over the waters of the high seas outside
the limits of the several States.
While there are no decisions in relation to the control
of the sponge industry and the catching of sponges, decisions upon the right of the States to legislate in regard
to oysters are so nearly parallel as to practically control
the same rights in regard to sponges. The right of the
State to absolutely regulate the oyster industry has been
clearly recognized. Lee v. State bf New Jersey, 207 U. S.
67; McReady v. Virginia, 94 U. S. 391; Louisiana v.
Mississippi,202 U. S.1; Smith v. Maryland, 18 How. 71.
As to the ownership, sovereignty and control of the
tide water and the right to control the fishing therein, see
Manchester v. Massachusetts, 139 U. S. 240; Lawion v.
Steele, 152 U. S. 133; Martin v. Waddell, 16 Pet. 367;
Pollard v. Hagan, 3 How. 212.; Illinois v. Ill. Cent. R. R.
Co., 146 U. S.387; W.harton.v. Wise, 153 U. S.155; Mann
v. De Coma Land Co., 153 U. S.273; McCready v. Virginia,
94 U. S.391; Hardin v. Jordan, 140 U. S.371; Shively v.
Bowlby, 152 U. S.1.
By the act of March 3, 1845, Florida was admitted into
the Union on equal footing with the original States in all

THE ABBY DODGE.
223 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

respects whatsoever. Florida v. Black River Phosphate
Co., 32 Florida, 83, 94.
Under Art I, Florida Const. the boundaries of the
State are defined as being three leagues from shore, in
the Gulf of Mexico. So the State has control over the
sponge bars and beds in the Gulf of Mexico and Straits of
Florida from the shore out to, and coextensive with, the
state limits so defined. United States v. Bevans, 3 Wheat.
336.
As to the right of the several States to control the taking of fish and game within the limits of their territory,
the following decisions among the state cases are to the
same effect: Alabama v. Harred (Ala.1, 15 L. R. A. 761;
Waverly v. White (Va.), 45 L. R. A. 227; People v. Truckee
Lumber Co. (Cal.), 39 L. R. A. 581 and note; Commonwealth
v. Hilton (Mass.), 45 L. R. A. 475; State v. Lewis (Ind.),
20 L. R. A. 52; Geerv. Connecticut, 161 U. S.519; New York
v. Hesterberg,211 U. S.31.
On the question of the power to control the taking of
sponges, fish, and oysters outside of the territorial limits
of the State or United States there are no decisions, but
see those in relation to the seal industry in Behring Sea,
In re Cooper, 143 U. S.474; Nor. Am. Commercial Co. v.
United States, 171 U. S. 110; La Ninfa v. United States,
75 Fed. Rep. 513, under which it appears that Congress has
neither the power to prohibit the landing or sale of an
ordinary article of commerce within the limits of a State,
nor has it the power to control the taking of sponges,
either within the waters of a State or upon the high seas.
The Solicitor General, with whom Mr. Charles E. McNabb, AssistantAttorney, was on the brief, for the United
States:
Whether the act of Congress in question is unconstitutional as an invasion of the reserved power of the
State is a question not presented by this record, inasmuch

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for the United States.

223'U. S.

as it is not shown that any of the sponges landed from
the Abby Dodge were taken within the boundaries of the
State. Flint v. Stone Tracy Co., 220 U. S. 107-177.
The United States has undoubted right alike in virtue
of its power to regulate foreign commerce and as an exercise of its inherent powers of national sovereignty to
regulate the use of fisheries near its shores and outside
the boundaries of the States, so far as concerns operations
by its own people or to or from its own shores. Lord v.
Steamship Co., 102 U. S. 541; Chinese Exclusion Case, 130
U. S. 581; Fong Yue Ting v. United States, 149 U. S. 698;
Lem Moon Sing v. United States, 158 U. S. 538; Nor. Am.
Commercial Co. v. United States, 171 U. S. 110; Buttfield
v. Stranahan,192 U. S. 470; Oceanic Steam Co. v. Stranahan, 214 U. S. 320.
Conservation of these fisheries concerns the users of
sponges throughout the United States. Florida certainly
cannot protect them, and unless the United States does
so they may be utterly destroyed.
American fisheries have been regulated by law for more
than a century. See act of February 18, 1793, 1 Stat.
305, 307, ch. 8. The laws in *force in 1873, wheri the
statutes were revised, appear under Titles 50 and 51; see
§§ 4321, 4393, for regulations as to whale, mackerel, and
cod. Those statutes have been construed by the courts
without question as to the power of Congress to enact
such laws. The Nymph, 1 Ware, 257; 18 Fed. Cas. 509;
United States v. The Dacis, 1 Cliff. 523; 27 Fed. Cas. 454;
United States v. The Reindeer, 14 Law Rep. 235; 27 Fed.
Cas. 758; and see act of February 28, 1887, 24 Stat. 434,
ch. 288; April 6, 1894, 28 Stat. 52, ch. 57; June 5, 1894,
28 Stat. 85, ch. 91; December 29, 1897, 30 Stat. 226, ch. 3.
See also Nor. Am. Commercial Co. v. United States, 171
U. S. 110, 134; Act of June 30, 1906, 34 Stat. 768, ch. 3915.
If the foregoing laws are constitutional, the one in
question is. The power to regulate commerce in sponges

THE ABBY DODGE.
223 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

gathered outside the territorial waters of States must be
lodged somewhere. It cannot be nonexistent. Obviously,
it is not in the States; therefore it must be in the Federal
Government.
"Commerce," in the grant of power to Congress, comprehends external relations of every nature. 2 Madison
Papers, 859; Cooley v. Board of Wardens,' 12 How. 299,
319; Henderson v. Mayor, 92 U. S. 259, 272.
For other cases presenting, as in this case, conditions
beyond state control or regulation and involving consideration and application of both constitutional and international law, see Chinese Exclusion Case, 130 U. S. 581,
603, 609; Fong Yue Ting v. United States, 149 U. S. 698,
711; Lem Moon Sing v. United States, 158 U. S. 538, 543;
Turner v. Williams, 194 U. S. 279, 290; Buttfield v. Stranahan, 192 U. S. 470, 492, 493; Oceanic Steam Co. v. Stranahan, 214 U. S. 320, 334, 335; Lord v. Steamship Co., 102
U. S. 541.
The conventional limitation of national authority over
the high seas to within three miles of the shore is applicable only as between nations. The people of the
United States have an interest in sea fisheries; and an
especial interest in those near their own shores. The
United States is asserting nothing here against the sovereignty of any other nation. It simply closes the ports
of the United States against everybody engaged in operations which it holds to be needlessly wasteful and destructive in their methods.
There is nothing new in this. It is not new in the legislation of the United States. It is not new in the legislation of other nations. Examples, indeed, are numerous.
Russia, Great Britain, New Zealand, Sweden, Norway,
Germany, and Holland have all adopted legislative regulations, applicable to their own subjects, for the protection
of seals of various species. Other instances are the British
"Sea Fisheries Act" of 1868 (31 and 32 Vict., ch. 45, § 47);

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

the Scotch "Herring Fishery Act" of 1889 (52 and 53
Vict., ch. 23); ordinances of Ceylon and statutes of Australasia regulating pearl fisheries; laws of Italy as to coral
fishing, and those of Norway establishing a close season
for whales. See the treaty recently concluded between
Russia, Great Britain, Japan and the United States.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the

court.
By libel of the vessel Abby Dodge, either her forfeiture
or the enforcement of a money penalty was sought because
of an alleged violation of the act of June 20, 1906, 34 Stat.
313, ch. 3442, entitled, "An Act.To regulate the landing,
delivery, cure, and sale of sponges." The specific violation
alleged was "That there was at the port of Tarpon Springs,
within the Southern District of Florida, on the 28th day
of September, A. D. 1908, landed from the said vessel,
Abby Dodge, 1,229 bunches of sponges, taken by means
of diving and apparatus from the waters of the Gulf of
Mexico and the Straits of Florida; . . . at a time
other than between October 1st and May 1st of any year,
and at a time subsequent to May 1st, A. D. 1907."
The owner of the vessel appedred and filed exceptions
which, although urged in various forms, were all, as stated
by counsel, "directed to and based upon the alleged unconstitutionality of the said act of June 20, 1906." The
exceptions were overruled, and, the claimant declining
further to plead, a decree was entered assessing a fine of
$100 against -the vessel. This appeal was then taken.
For the purposes of the questions upon which this case
turns we need only consider the first section of the act of
June 20, 1906, which is as follows:
"That from and after May first, anno Domini nineteen
hundred and seven, it shall be unlawful to land, deliver,
cure, or offer for sale at any port or place in the United
States any sponges taken by means of diving or diving

THE ABBY DODGE.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

apparatus from the waters of the Gulf of Mexico or Straits
of Florida: Provided, That sponges taken or gathered by
such process between October first and May first of each
year in a greater depth of water than fifty feet shall not be
subject to the provisions of this Act: And provided further,
That no sponges taken from said waters shall be landed,
delivered, cured, or offered for sale at any port or place in
the United States of a smaller size than four inches in
diameter."
Broadly the act, it is insisted, is repugnant to the Constitution because, in one aspect, it deals with a matter
exclusively within the authority of the States, and in another because, irrespective of the question of state authority, the statute regulates a subject not within the national
grasp and hence not embraced within the legislative power
of Congress. The first proceeds upon the assumption that
the act regulates the taking or gathering of sponges attached to the land under water within the territorial limits
of the State of Florida and it may be of other States bordering on the Gulf of Mexico, prohibits internal commerce in
sponges so taken or gathered, and is therefore plainly an
unauthorized exercise of power by Congress. The second
is'basedon the theory that even if the act be construed as
concerned only with sponges taken or gathered from land
under water outside of the jurisdiction of any State, then
its provisions are in excess of the power of Congress, because, under such hypothesis, the act can only apply to
sponges taken from the bed of the ocean, which the National Government has no power to deal with.
We briefly consider the two propositions. If the premise upon which the first rests be correct, that is to say, the
assumption that the act when rightly construed applies
to sponges taken or gathered from land under water within
the territorial limits of the State of Florida or other States,
the repugnancy of the act to the Constitution would
plainly be established by the decisions of this court. In

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

McCready v. Virginia, 94 U. S. 391, the question for decision was whether the State of Virginia had such exclusive
authority over the planting and gathering of oysters upon
the soil in tide waters within the territorial limits of the
State as not only to give the State the power to control
that subject, but to confer the right to exclude the citizens
of other States from participating. In upholding a statute
exerting such powers the doctrine was declared (p. 394) to
be as follows: "The principle has long been settled in this
court, that each State owns the beds of all tide-waters
within its jurisdiction, unless they have been granted
away. Pollard's Lessee v. Hagan, 3 How. 212; Smith v.
Maryland, 18 How. 74; Munford v. Wardwell, 6 Wall. 486;
Weber v. HarborCommissioners, 18 id. 66. In like manner,
the States own the tide-waters themselves, and the fish
in them, so far as they are capable of ownership while
running. For this purpose the State represents its people,
and the ownership is that of the people in their united
sovereignty. Martin v. Waddell, 16 Pet. 410.
The right which 'the people of the State thus acquire comes
not from their citizenship alone, but from their citizenship
and property combined. It is, in fact,, a property right,
and not a mere privilege or immunity of citizenship."
True t is that the rights which were thus held to exist in
the States were declared to be "subject to the paramount
right of navigation, the regulation of which, in respect to
foreign and interstate commerce has been granted to the
United States," but with that dominant right we are not
here concerned.
Again, in Manchester v. Massachusetts, 139 U. S.240,
in upholding a statute of the State of Massachusetts regulating the taking of Menhaden in Buzzard's Bay, the
doctrine of the case just cited was expressly reiterated.
True, further in that case, probably having in mind the
declaration made in the opinion in the McCready case,
that fish running within the tide waters of the several

THE. ABBY DODGE.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

States were subject to state ownership "so far as they are
capable of ownership while so running," the question was
reserved as to whether or not Congress would have ,the
right to control the Menhaden fisheries. But here also
for the reason that the question arising relates only to
sponges growing on the soil covered by water we are not
concerned with the subject of running fish and the extent
subject.•
state and national power over such
(if
.The obvious -correctness of the deduction which the.
proposition embodies that the statute is repugnant to the
Constitution when applied to sponges taken 'or gathered
within state territorial limits, however,, establishes the
want of merit in the contention as'a whole. In.other
words,. the premise that the statute is to be construed as
applying to sponges taken within the territorial jurisdiction of a State is demonstrated to be unfounded by the
deduction of unconstitutionality to. which such premise
..inevitably and plainly leads. This follows because of the
elementary rule of construction that where two inierpretations of. a statute are in reason admissible, one of which
creates a repugnancy to, the Constitution and the other
avoids such repugnancy, the one which makes the statute
harmonize with the Constitution must. be adopted. 'United
States v. Delaware & Hudson Co., 213 U. S. 366 407, and
cases cited.
'While it is true- that it would be possible to interpret.
the statute as applying to sponges taken in local Waters,.
it is equally certain that it is suseeptible of being confined,
to •sponges taken outside of such waters. In view of-the
clear -di~tinction between state' and national power on
the subject,- long settled at the time the'.act was passed
and the rule of construction just stated, we, are of opinion
that 'its provisions must be construed as alone- applicable
to the subject Within the authority of Congress to regulate, and, -therefore, be held not to embrace that which
was not within' such power:

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.

Opinion of the Court.

-223 U. S.

In substance the argument is that this case does not
come within the rule, since it is insisted to confine the
statute to sponges taken or gathered outside of state territorial limits would also, although for a different reason,
cause it to be plainly unconstitutional. This but assumes
that the second proposition, denying all power in Congress to exert authority in respect to the landing of sponges
taken outside of the territorial jurisdiction of a State is
'well founded, and we come therefore to the consideration
of that proposition. For the sake of brevity we do not
stop to review the general considerations which the proposition involves for the purpose of demonstrating its inherent inaccuracy, or to point out its conflict with the law
of nations, and its inconsistency with the practices of the
Government from the beginning. We thus refrain since
there is a simpler and yet more comprehensive point of
view disposing of the whole subject.
Undoubtedly, (Lord v. Steamship Company, 102 U. S.
541), whether the Abby Dodge was a vessbl of the United
States or of a foreign nation, even although it be conceded
that she was solely engaged in taking or gathering sponges
in the waters which by the law of nations would be regarded as the common pr~perty of all and was transporting the sponges so gathered to the United States, the
-yessel was engaged in foreign commerce, and was therefore amenable to the regulating power of Congress over
that subject. This being not open to discussion, the want
of merit of the contention is shown, since the practices from
the beginning, sanctioned by the decisions of this court, establish that Congress by an exertion of its power to regulate foreign commerce has the authority to forbid merchandise carried in such commerce from entering the United
States. Buttfield v. Stranahan,, 192 U. S. 470, 492-493, and
authorities there collected. Indeed, as pointed out in the
Buttfield Case, so complete is the authority of Congress
over the subject that no one can be said to have a vested

THE ABBY DODGE.
223 U. S.

-Opinion of the Court.

right to carry on foreign commerce with the United
States.
Although, -for the reason stated, we think the statute,
limited by the construction which we have given it, is
not repugnant to the Constitution, we are nevertheless of
opinion that as thus construed the averments of the libel
were not sufficient to authorize the imposition of the
penalty which the court below decreed against the vessel.
As by the interpretation Which we have given the statute
its operation is-confined to the landing of sponges taken
outside of the territorial limits of a State, and the libel
does not so charge--that is, its averments do not negative
the fact that the: sponges may have been taken from
waters within the territorial limits of a State-it follows
that the libel failed'to charge an element essential to be
alleged and proved, in order to establish a violation of the
statute. United States v. Britton, 107 U. S. 655, 661-662,
and cases cited.
As we deem that it has no relevancy to' the power of
Congress to deal with a subject not within its constitutional authority, that is, the taking of sponges within the
exclusive jurisdiction of a State, we have not considered
it necessary to refer to a statement made by the district
judge concerning legislation of the State of Florida making
it.unlawful to gather or catch sponges "in and upon any
of the grounds known as sponging grounds along the coast
of Florida from Pensacola to Cape Florida by diving
either with or without a diving suit and armor." Equally,
also, have we refrained from attempting to reconcile the
enactment of this state law with some reference made by
the Government in argument to' certain statements in
testimony given before a committee of the House when
the act which is before us was in process of adoption, to
the effect that there were no sponge beds within the jurisdiction of Florida, because "the sponge beds were from
fifteen to sixty and sixty-five miles'Put."
VOL. ccxxxIi-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

223 U. S.

In view of the paramount authority of Congress over
foreign commerce, through abundance of precaution we
say that nothing in this opinion implies a wat of power
in Congress, when exerting its absolute authority to prohibit the bringing of merchandise, the subject of such
commerce, into the United States, to cast upon one seeking
to bring in the merchandise, the burden, if an exemption
from the operation of the statute is claimed, of establishing
a right to the exemption.
While -it necessarily follows from what we have said
that the decree must be reversed, we are of opinion that
under the circumstances of the case it should be accompanied with directions to permit the Government, if
-desired, to ,amend the libel so as to present a case within
the statute as construed. The Mary Ann, 8 Wheat. 380.
Reversed.
HENDRICKS v., UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF OREGON..
No. 164.

Argued January 25, 1912.-Decided February 19, 1912.

The specification of the identity of a defendant and precise nature of
his offense is the end, and not the beginning, of a grand jury proceeding. Hale'v. Henkel, 201 U. S. 43.

An indictment for subornation of perjury committed Wfore a grand
jury inquiry into certain criminal violations of the law of the United
States relating to the public lands, disposal of the same, and the
unlawful fencing thereof, is not insufficiefit, as failing to set forth
the nature and cause of the accusation, because it does not state the
particular matter brought under inquiry. Markham v. United Statei,
160 U. S. 319.
THE facts, which involve the sufficiency of an indictment for perjury and the rights of the accused under the

