KANSAS CITY SO. RY. v. ALBERS COMM. CO. 573
223 U. S.

Syllabus.

KANSAS CITY SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY
v. C. H. ALBERS COMMISSION CO.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.

No. 18. Argued October 26, 1911.-Decided February 26, 1912.
The insistence in the state court by an interstate carrier that a shipper
cannot recover excess collected over a special contract rate because
the rate collected conformed to the applicable provisions of the
Interstate Commerce Act is an adequate assertion of a right or
immunity under that' act, and this court can review judgment in
favor of the shipper.
On writ of error to the state court this court may examine the entire
record, including the evidence, to determine whether what purports
to be a finding of fact is not so involved with, and dependent upon,
questions of Federal law, as to be really a decision thereof.
In this case the finding of the state court as to a rate charged by an
interstate carrier necessarily involved the interpretation and construction of the Interstate Commerce Act, and this court can examine the evidence and ascertain for itself the validity of the rate
under the statute.
Posting the schedules of rates of interstate carriers as required by § 6
of the Interstate Commerce Act is a means of affording special facilities to the public for ascertaining the rates actually in force but is
not essential to make the rates legally operative.
The sanction by connecting carriers of through rates published by
another carrier is only essential as to their application to the haul
from common points; rates from other points are individual and not
joint.
Where a schedule of joint rates is not restricted to particular'lines
designated, it will be presumed, where there is testimony to that
effect, as applying to shipments received from any connecting line
of goods originating at the designated points.
Although the testimony offered may not be the best evidence, it cannot be disregarded if offered and admitted without objection. Diaz
v. United States, ante, p. 442.
Where there is po applicable through rate established, shipments,

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

223 U. S.

even if moving on through bills of lading, must take the local rates
unless displaced by a lawful.special agreement.
A special rate agreement which departs from the established local rate
for the benefit of a single shipper, no schedule of which is filed with
-the Interstate Commerce Commission, violates § 6 of the Interstate
Commerce Act.
A carrier is not liable to action to refund the excess over an illegal
special rate if the rate actually collected is the applicable legal
published rate.
79 Kansas, 59, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the right of recovery from an
interstate carrier of differenc6 between contract rates and
rates actually charged, and the validity, under the Interstate Commerce Laws, of the rates contracted for and
collected, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Cyrus Crane, with whom Mr. Samuel W. Moore was
-on the brief, for plaintiff im error:
The right claimed by the plaintiff in error under the
Federal statute is dependent upon the existence and the
application of 'the tariffs filed pursuant to law. This right
cannot be defeated by a finding of fact by the state court,
either against the existence of the tariff or that it did not
apply to the shipments in question. This court has the
right to exercise its own judgment, as to whether a tariff
was lawfully. fied fixing rates controlling all shipments,
and whether such rates applied to and controlled the
charges upon 'the particular shipments. Nor. Pac. Ry. Co.
v. Minnesota, 208 U. S. 583; Chic., B. & Q. Ry. Co. v.
Nebraska, 170 U. S. 57; Steam -v. Minnesota, 179 U. S.
223; Mobile & Ohio Ry. Co. v. Tennessee, 153 U. S. 486;
Huntington v. Attrill, 146 U. S. 657.
Neither the findings-nor the rulings of the state court
in such matters as these can prevent the determination of
the right asserted under the constitution and laws of the
United States. St. Louis Ry. Co. v. Arkansas, 217 U. S. 136.
The state court was without jurisdiction of, this cause.

KANSAS CITY SO. RY. v. ALBERS COMM. CO. 575
223 U.S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The lawfully established tariff rates applying on the shipments in question over the line of the garnishee were
charged and collected in all cases.
Plaintiff's claim depends upon a departure from the
published rates. The inflexibility of published rates must
be maintained in every court until the Commission shall,
by its order, level the rate for the benefit of every one.
Texas Ry. Co. v. Abilene, 204 U. S. 426; Mo. Ry. Co. v.
Milling Co.; 80 Kansas, 141; Coal Co. v.'Lumber Co., 159
Fed. Rep. 278; Van Patten v. Railroad,81 Fed. Rep. 545;
State v. Railway Co.,: 176 Missouri, 687; Carlislev. Railway
Company, 168 Missouri, 652; Morrisdale Coal Co. v. Pennsylvania R. Co., 183 Fed. Rep. 929.
The plaintiff's entire. claim is illegal and non-enforceable
for the reason that it is based upon an arrangement whereby
the carrier was to serve Forrester Brothers for less than
the established rate.
As to the meaning of the proportional Tate and how
the same is applied, see Bascom Co. v. Railway Co., 17 I.
C. C. Rep. 356.
A clear explanation of proportional rates is given by
"The Matter of Form and Contents of Rate Schedules,"
4 I. C. C. Rep. 701; Moore on Interstate Commerce,
§ 48; Barnes on Interstate Transportation, § 80 D.
Proportional rates are recognized as proper. Serry v.
Southern Pacific Ry. Co., 18 I. C. C. 556; North Brothers
v. Railway Company, 13 I. C. C. 153; Kansas City Transportation Bureau v. Railway Company, 16 I. C. C. 195;
-Lindsay Brothers v. R. R. Co., 16 I. C. C. 6, and In re
Through Routes and Through Rates, 12 I. C. C. 164, 172;
and see Armour Packing Company Case, 153 Fed. Rep. 1;
S. C., 209 U. S. 56; Chicago, B. & Q. Ry. Co. v., United
States, 157 Fed. Rep. 830.
The -presumption, in the absence of proof, is that rates
between these points had been duly and legally established. Mecker v. R. R., 162 Fed. Rep. 354; Texas &

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

223 U. S.

Pacific v. Abilene Co., 204 U. S. 426; Int. Com. Comm. v.
Railway Co., 209 U. S. 108, 121; Clement v. Railway Co.,
153 Fed. Rep. 979; American Union Coal Co. v. Railway
Co., 159 Fed. Rep. 278.
This proportional rate is fixed and inflexible, by reason
of its being established in accordance with law, as though
it had been fixed by an act of Congress. No contract or
other device could vary or depart from it. Any contract
undertaking to vary from the published rate would be
void. This is conclusively established by the following
decisions of this court. Gulf, Colorado & S. F. Ry. Co. v.
Hefley, 158 U. S. 98; Texas & Pac. R. R. Co. v. Mugg, 202
U. S. 242; Armour Packing Co. v. United States, 209 U. S.
256.
Other decisions are to the same effect: Hawley v. Coal
Company, 48 Kansas, 593; Railroad Co. v. Hubbell, 54
Kansas, 232; Kizer v. Railway Co., 66 Arkansas, 348;
Armour Packing Co. v. United States, 153 Fed. Rep. 1;
Railway. Co. v. Standard Lumber'Co., i74 Fed. Rep. 107;
Railroad Co. v. Harrison, 119 Alabama, 539; Railroad Co.
v. Ostrander,66 Arkansas, 567; Bullard v. RailroadCo., 10
Montana, 168; RailroadCo. v. Swanson, 102 Georgia, 754;
Southern Wire Co. v. Railway Co., 38 Mo. App. 191; Messenger v. Railway Co., 36 N. J. Law, 407; Scofield v. Railway Co., 43 Oh. St. 571; Fitzgerald v. Railway Co., 63
Vermont, 169; Railway Co. v. Burdick, 94 Georgia, 775;
Railroad Co. v. Erwin, 118 Illinois, 250; Railway Co. V.
Bowles, 1 Ind. Terr. 250; Gerber v. Railway Co., 63 Mo.
App. 145; Railway Co. v. Holmes, 18 Oklahoma, 92; Railway Co. v. Stoner, 5 Tex. Civ. App. 50; Railway Co. v.
Clements (Tex. Civ. App.), 49 S. W. Rep. 913; Railway Co.
v. Wilcox, 99 Virginia, 394; Railway Co. v. Creety, 5 Ga.
App. 424; Chicago, B. & Q. Ry. Co. v. United States, 157
Fed. Rep. 830.
There is no pretense that this joint rate was ever published as required by law.

KANSAS CITY SO. RY. v. ALBERS COMM. CO. 577
223 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

A shipper is not entitled to avail himself of a division of
a through rate.
As to a shipper a joint rate is an indivisible unit. The
law does not require divisions of joint rates to be published.
They are purely a matter of private contract between-the
carriers. Such private contracts are not for the benefit of
shippers and cannot be availed of by them. Second Natl.
Bank v. Grand Lodge, 98 U. S. 123; Keller v. Ashford, 136
U. S. 610; Sayward v. Dexter, 72 Fed. Rep. 758; American
Bank v. Railway Co., 76 Fed. Rep. 130; Metropolitan Trust
Co. v. Topeka Water Co., 132 Fed. Rep. 702; German Insurance Co. v. Water Co., 174 Fed. Rep. 768.
Mr. John M. Wayde and Mr. Philip Pitt Campbell for
defendant in error:
State courts have jurisdiction at common law.
This is not an action to in any way regulate commerce
among the States, but simply an action to recover on a
contract. The common-law right of a state court to hear
and determine actions of this kind has never been questioned. Texas & P. R. Co. v. Abilene Cotton Oil Co., 204
U. S. 426; West Virginia TransportationCo. v. Sweetzer, 25
W. Va. 434; Peters v. RailroadCo., 42 Oh. St. 275; 51 Am.
Rep. 814; Railroad Co. v. Lockwood, 17 Wall. 379; McGregor v. Erie Railway Co., 35 N. J. Law, 89, 113.
This jurisdiction of state courts has not been abrogated
by Interstate Commerce Act. In fact that act says that
its provisions are in addition to the remedies at common
law.
This action is independent of the Interstate Commerce
Act, and is not an action to recover damages by reason of
the violation of any of the provisions of that act. Ratican
v. Terminal R. R. Assn., 114 Fed. Rep. 671.
That statute is a highly penal one, conferring certain
rights-upon the party aggrieved, recoverable by him in a
civil action, and also subjecting the party offending to its
VOL. ccxxiii-37

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

223 U. S.

pains and penalties. Parsons v. Railroad Co., 167 U. S.
447.
The statute does not say that the Federal courts shall
be the forum when the liability arises independent of the
Interstate Commerce Act. Under substantially similar
circumstances as the case at bar, the state courts have retained jurisdiction. Mo. Pac. Ry. Co. v. Relf, 78 Kansas,
463; Wabash R. R. Co. v. Sloop, 98 S. W. Rep. 607; Southern Kansas R. Co. v. Burgess, 90 S. W. Rep. 189; Gulf R. R.
Co. v. Leatherwood, 69 S. W. Rep. 119; Ry. Co. v. Horne,
59 S. W. Rep. 134.
On the facts found by the state court the judgment
rendered was not inconsistent with the Interstate Commerce Law.
All that can possibly be claimed on the part of plaintiff
in error is that it had a different proportional rate between
certain other railroad companies at the time that this
grain was shipped to what it had under its joint traffic
arrangement with the northern connecting lines, and to
its rate specified in its contract with Forrester Brothers.
A railway company can accept a certain rate per hundred pounds as its proportion of a through haul from one
railway company and a different rate per hundred pounds
as its proportion of a through haul from another railway
company.
A railway company cannot relieve itself from the
obligations of its contract by failing to comply with the
Interstate Commerce Law with reference to filing and
publishing its rates, and a contract is not illegal when made
with the shipper when it is not shown that the contract
rate is in violation of any through rate established by the
railroads or is not in conflict with any published rate of
the railroads over which the grain is shipped and which is
applicable to the shipment. Little Rock & Memphis Ry.
Co. v. St. Louis & Southwestern Ry. Co., 63 Fed. Rep. 775;
S. C. 26 L. R. A. 195.

KANSAS CITY SO. RY. v. ALBERS COMM. CO. 579
223 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Arrangements or agreements by interstate carriers with
each other for the through billing of freight, and for joint
through rates depend upon the voluntary action of the
parties, and cannot be enforced by judicial proceedings
without additional legislation. Little Rock & M. R. Co. v.
East Tenn., V. & G. R. Co., 4 I. C. C. 261; 47 Fed. Rep.
771; Little Rock & M. R. Co. v. St. Louis, I. M. & S. R.
Co., 41 Fed. Rep. 559; 2 I. C. C. 763; Oregon Short Line
v. Northern Pac. R. Co., 51 Fed. Rep. 465, 474; 4 I. C.
C. 249.
The Interstate Commerce Act does not make it obligatory upon connecting carriers to enter into traffic arrangements for through billing and rating either as to passenger
or freight traffic. Kentucky & I. Bridge Co. v. Louisville
& N. R. Co., 37 Fed. Rep. 567, 630, 631; 2 I. C. C. 351;
2d Ann. Rep., 2 I. C. C. 510.
If the public interest requires that interstate carriers
be compelled to put in force arrangements for through
billing and rating, and for the establishment of joint
through lines, the statute should be more explicit, and the
commission should be empowered to prescribe the terms
of such arrangements upon a comprehensive view of the
circumstances of each particular case. Chicago & N. W.
Ry. Co. v. Osborne, 52 Fed. Rep. 915; Express Cases,
117 U. S. 1; Tozer v. United States, 52 Fed. Rep. 919.
Through rates are matters of agreement between carriers. L. R. & M. R. R. Co. v. Tenn., Va. & Ga. R. R., 3
I. C. C. 1; Copehart v. L. & N. R. R. Co., 4 1. C. C. 3 1.
C. C. 278; In re Clark, Agent, 3 I. C. C. 649.
Through rates are not necessarily illegal, which, when
divided between carriers, give them less than their local
rates, provided that the through rate itself is not less than
some one of the locals, or unjustly discriminating against
individuals or localities, or so low as to burden other
business with part of the cost of the business upon which
it is imposed. Lippman v. Ill. Cent. R. R. Co., 2 I. C. C.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

223 U. S.

584; C., R. I. & P. Ry. Co. v. C. & A. R. R. Co., 3 1. C. C.
450; N. 0. Cotton Exch. v. Ill. Cent. R. R..Co., 3 1. C. C. 534;
Hamilton v. C. R. & 0. R. R. Co., 4 I. C. C. 3 I. C. C.
482; Detroit Board v. G. T. Ry. Co., 2 I. C. C. 315; Poughkeepsie Iron Co. v. N. Y. C. & H. R. R. R. Co., 4 1. C. C.
3 I. C. C. 248.
The apportionment of rates of different parts of a
through line does not determine the charge to the public,
but may be significant on the question of reasonable rates
for the whole distance. Brady v. Penn. R. R. Co., 2 I. C.
C. 131.
A railroad company is under special obligations to give
reasonable rates for its local business, but there are many
influences, which may affect through rates, while not bearing upon local rates at all, or, if at all, in less degree. McMorran v. Grand Trunk Ry. Co., 3 I. C. C. 252; and see
also Martin v. C., B. & Q. R. R. Co., 2 I. C. C. 25; Brady
v. Penn. R. R. Co., 2 I. C. C. 131; In re Investn. of G. T.
R. R. Co., 3 I. C. C. 89; United States v. Mellen, 53 Fed.
Rep. 229.
Through rates are not required to be made on a mileage
basis, nor local rates to correspond with the divisions,
citing Martin v. Sou. Pac., 2 I. C. C. 1; Railway Co. v.
Osborne, 52 Fed. Rep. 912. See Wentworth on Interstate
Commerce, pp. 18, 24, 54; Judson on Interstate Commerce, p. 190, § 150, citing Chicago &c. R. R. Co. v. Tompkins, 176 U. S., 167; Allen & Lewis v. Oregon R. Nay. Co.,
98 Fed. Rep. 16.
No power existed at common law, and none is given by
-the act to court or commission, to compel connecting companies to contract 'with each other, to abandon full control
of their separate roads; or to unite inf a joint tariff. Express Cases, 117 U. S,. 1; Kentucky Bridge Co. v. Louisville
& N. R. Co., 2 1. C. C. 351; 37 Fed. Rep. 567; Little Rock
& M.R. Co. v. St. Louis, I. M. & S. Ry. Co., 2 I. C. C.
763; 41 Fed. Rep. 559; Int. Comrn Comm. -v.Baltimore&

KANSAS CITY SO. RY. v. ALBERS COMM. CO. 581
223 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

0. R. R. Co., 145 U. S.284; Gulf, C. & S. F. Ry. Co. v.
Miami S. S. Co., 86 Fed. Rep. 415.
A scheme for establishing compulsory through rates
should be surrounded by proper safeguards, and its operation. limited by proper restrictions. Cases supra; and see
Cincinnati,N. 0. & T. R. Ry. Co. v. Int. Com. Comm., 162
U. S. 184; Texas & P. Ry. Co. v. Int. Com. Comm., 162
U. S. 197; Railroad Co. v. Platt (decided by the Interstate
Commerce Commission June 26, 1907); Sou. Pac. Co. v;
Int. Com. Comm., 200 U. S. 554; Int. Com. Comm. v.
Baltimore & 0. R. Co., 3 I. C. C. 192; 43 Fed. Rep. 37;
Cincinnati, N. 0. & T. P. R. Co. v. Int. Com. Comm.,
162 U. S.184, 197.
Section 6 cannot be construed to prohibit such condition. Delaware, L. & W. R. Co. v. Kutter, 147 Fed. Rep.
53.
While contracts which are prohibited by law are invalid
and cannot be enforced, there are five exceptions in which
the contracts are upheld. Where public policy requires
the intervention of the court; where the parties are not in
pari delicto; where the law which makes the agreement
unlawful was intended for the special protection of the
party seeking relief; where the illegal purpose has not been
consummated; where the party complaining can exhibit
his case without relying on the illegal transaction. 9 Cyc.
Law & Proc., p. 550; Packardv. Byrd, 73 So. Car. 1; Fox v.
Rogers, 171 Massachusetts, 546; Eastern Expanded Metal
Co. v. Webb Granite Co. (Mass.), 81 N. E.Rep. 251; Tootle
v. Taylor, 64 Iowa, 629; Bemis v. Beecher, 1 Kansas, 226;
Mason v. McLeod, 57 Kansas, 105.
To invalidate a contract for illegality, the illegality
must be inherent. It is not enough that it be associated
even closely. It must be a part of the contract. Armstrong
v. Toler, 11 Wheat. 258; Union Nat. Bank v. Matthews, 98
U. S. 621; Merchants' Cotton Co. V. Insurance Co., 151 U. S.
368; Lamed v. Andrews, 106 Massachusetts, 435.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

223 U. S.

The laches of the railroad company in failing to file and
publish its joint through rate after it was made should

not enable it to defeat its contract or relieve it from liability under its contract. RailroadCo. v. Hefley, 158 U. S.
98, distinguished; and see Virginia Coal & Iron Co. v.
Louisville & N. R. Co., 37 S. E. Rep. 315; Cherry v. Chicago & Alton Ry. Co., 191 Missouri, 489; Judson on Interstate Commerce on p. 276, § 235; Chapter on Enforcibility
of Unpublished Rate against the Carrier, citing PondDecker Lumber Co. v. Spencer, 86 Fed. Rep. 846, reversing
81 Fed. Rep. 277.
The state court did not find that any preference or
advantage was given Forrester Brothers, under its contract over that which was given to any other shipper between the same points.
The findings of the state court are conclusive in this
court, and while there is no finding of the state court that
even the proportional rate with the other roads was filed
and published as the Interstate Commerce Law required,
yet as the court specifically finds that this grain was not
shipped over the same roads or between the same points
specified in the proportional tariff offered in evidence in
connection with the other roads; and in the amendments to
such tariff it is apparent Under the authorities already cited
in this brief that the proportional rates with other roads,
even if filed and published, did not preclude the Kansas
City Southern Railway Company from making a different
proportional rate with the northern connecting lines.
When the northern connecting lines united on a through
rate this new line thus formed was wholly independent
of the line formed by the proportional rate between.
Leavensworth and Atchison and St. Joseph with other
roads. C. & A. Ry. Co. v' United States, 156 Fed. Rep.
558; United States v. Standard oil Co., 155 Fed. Rep. 305;
Armour Packing Co. v. United States, 153 Fed. Rep. 1,
were all brought under the Elkins Act, which act did not

KANSAS CITY SO. RY. v. AL13ERS COMM. CO. 583
223 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

take effect until February 19, 1903; the contract of Forrester Brothers was made in 1901, and the shipments
were made in 1901 and 1902. These cases do not apply,
nor does Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Mugg, 202 U. S.
242.
This court will not review a decision of the state court
on a writ of error when the decision of the state court
is based on a question of state practice or procedure.
In re Spies, 123 U. S. 131; Oxley Stave Co. v. Butler Co.,
166 U. S. 648.
No decision, state or Federal, holds that a contract
based on an unpublished rate applicable to the rate of
shipment in question can be enforced, as between the
carrier and shipper, when the rate is not shown to be unjust and unreasonable or does not discriminate either in
favor of or against other shippers on same haul, or does
not conflict with a lawfully established rate which is applicable. The validity of such contracts has been upheld
in the following cases: Mo. Pacif. R. R. Co. v. Relf, 78
Kansas, 463; Wabash R. R. Co. v. Sloop (Mo.), 98 S. W.
Rep. 607; Southern Kan. R. R. Co. v. Burgess (Tex.), 90
S. W. Rep. 189; Gulf R. R. Co. v. Leatherwood, 69 S. W.
Rep. 119; Railway Company v. Horn (Tenn.), 59 S. W.
Rep. 134; Laurel Cotton Mills Co. v. G. & S. I. R. Co., 37
So. Rep. 134; Southern Pacif. R. R. Co. v. Redding, 43
S. W. Rep. 1061; Va. Coal & Iron Co. v. Louisville N. R.
Co., 74 S. E. Rep. 315; Cherry v. Chicago & Alton R. Co.,
191 Missouri, 489;.2 L. R. A. (N. S.) 695; 90 S. W. Rep.
381.
The principle involved in this case comes clearly within
the right to contract which has always been recognized
by this court. Southern Pacific R. R. Co. v. Inter. Com.
Comm., 200 U. S. 555; Inter. Com. Comm. v. Baltimore R.
R. Co., 3 I. C. C. 192; Cincinnati, N. 0. & T. P. R. Co.
v. Inter. Com. Comm., 162 U. S. 184, 197; 5 I. C. C.
391.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

223 U. S.

delivered the opinion of

the court.
This was a proceeding in garnishment under the laws of
the State of Kansas. The C. H. Albers Commission Company had recovered a judgment in the District Court of
Crawford County, in that State, against Robert L. Forrester and Joseph M. Forrester, doing business as Forrester Brothers, in the sum of $10,333.72 with interest,
and had brought the Kansas City Southern Railway Company into the case, as a garnishee, upon a general allegation that it was indebted to' Forrester Brothers. The
railway company, which will be spoken of as the garnishee,
appeared and denied that allegation. Under the practice
in that State the issue so framed was, without other pleadings, brought on for trial as a civil action. The trial was
begun before the court and a jury, but later the jury was
discharged, with the consent of the parties, and the trial
proceeded before the court alone. The case made by the
evidence was this:
The garnishee was operating a railroad extending from
Kansas City, Missouri, to Texarkana, Texas. Another
railroad, which will be spoken of as the northern line,
connected with it at Kansas City and extended northward
to Omaha, Nebraska. Forrester Brothers ,were buyers
and sellers of grain, with offices at St. Louis, Missouri.
In the late summer or early fall of 1901 the two roads, at
the solicitation of Forrester Brothers, entered into an oral
agreement with the latter whereby they were granted a
special rate on corn and oats to be shipped in carload lots
from Omaha via Kansas City to Texarkana. The evidence
was confficting as to whether the rate agreed upon for the
through haul was 12 2 or 16/ 2 cents per hundred pounds,
but it was one or the other, and the garnishee was to
charge and receive 8 cents for the haul over its road and
the remainder was to go to the northern line. The evi-

KANSAS CITY SO. RY. v. ALBEtS COMM. CO. 585
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

dence was also conflicting as to whether the agreement
was to terminate on the thirty-first of October, or was to
continue until all the shipments then contemplated by
Forrester Brothers were completed. After the agreement
was made, and in reliance thereon, Forrester Brothers
made large purchases of corn and oats at Omaha for shipment to and sale at Texarkana, as they had contemplated
doing when soliciting the special rate. The agreement
was observed by the garnishee until and including the
thirty-first of October, and during that time the shipments
were carried on through bills of lading. Thereafter the
garnishee disregarded the agreement, required that the

shipments be rebilled at Kansas City, and collected a
10-cent rate for the haul over its road until November 10,
and thereafter a 14-cent rate. The payment of the larger
rates was made by an agent of Forrester Brothers at
Kansas City, who did not know of the agreement. By
exacting the larger rates the garnishee received $10,527.55
more than it would have received under the 8-cent rate.
No schedule embodying the 12Y/2 or 16y 2 -cent rate,
whichever it was, for the through haul, or the 8-cent rate
for the haul over the garnishee's road, was filed with the
Interstate Commerce Commission; and neither was any
memorandum or statement of the oral agreement so filed.
Apart from the agreement there was no joint through rate
applicable to these shipments.
When the agreement .was made there was in force on
the garnishee's road a "proportional rate" of 10 cents per
hundred pounds on corn and oats moving from Kansas
City to Texarkana. This rate was not applicable to ship-

ments originating at Kansas City, but only to such as
originated elsewhere on connecting lines. Nor was it invariably confined to the movement from Kansas City to
Texarkana, for it included also the haul, when there was
such, to Kansas City from certain common points, such
as St. Joseph, Atchison and Leavenworth, which usually

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

enjoyed the Kansas City rates and were not reached by
the garnishee's road, but by other roads. Thus, shipments
originating on lines connecting at the common points
with the roads leading to Kansas City took this rate from
the common points to Texarkana. As applied to such
shipments the rate was joint as well as proportional, and
as applied to others it was a proportional rate of the
garnishee alone. It was embodied in a schedule duly filed
with the Interstate Commerce Commission, and remained
in force until November 10, when it was superseded by a
like rate of 14 cents, shown in an amendatory schedule so
filed. These schedules bore a heading indicating that
they were adopted by the garnishee "in connection with"
other designated railroads, they being the roads over which
the haul, when there was such, from the common points to
the garnishee's road would be made. The northern line
was not one of them, nor was Omaha one of the common
points. There was a like provision for the haul, when
there was such, from Texarkana to common points therewith, and also a designation of the railroads over which
that haul would be made; but as that feature of the
schedules is immaterial here, it .may be eliminated from
consideration.
As explaining a proportional rate and indicating the
correct application of the one just named, F. M. King, an
experienced station agent of the garnishee, testified: "Q. I
will ask if -you know whether or not the words 'proportional rates' have a well-defined and understood meaning
in railroad business and on the Kansas City Southern.
A. They have; yes, sir. Q. Now, just tell briefly what
those terms mean, those words 'proportional rates,' if
you know. A. A proportional rate is a rate put in to cover
business . . . coming to our lines from other points,
applying to commodities where we have no through rates.
It is put in in order to protect a shipper on a long haul.
For instance, a shipment coming from .
points

-

KANSAS CITY SO. RY. v. ALBERS COMM. CO. 587
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

out in Kansas, where there is no through rate published,

.

.

-

we accept it from the connecting line

and bill it out then on a proportional rate, which is less
than the local tariff rate. Q. Now, you spoke there of a
local tariff rate; if those words have a well-defined meaning, I wish you would state what those are. A. A local
rate is a rate applying locally from one station to another
on the same road. Q. In that term 'local rate' as distinguished from 'proportional rate,' how about the origin'
of the shipment? A. That is where it originates and
terminates on the same line." And E. E. Smythe, the
general freight agent of the garnishee, under whose direction the schedules embracing this proportional rate
were prepared and filed, testified: "Q. Mr. Smythe, what
is meant in railroading by 'common points'? A. Common
points are points which take the same rate.
Q. Common points are comparatively close together, taking the same rates? A. Yes, sir. Q. How far north is
Omaha from Kansas City? A. 220 or 226 miles. .
Q. How far north from Kansas City is Atchison and
Leavenworth? A. Between 30 and 40 miles. Q. And St.
Joe about 60 miles north of Kansas City? A. Yes, sir, 60.
Q. Is Omaha a common point with Leavenworth, Atchison, St. Joe and Kansas City? A. No, sir. .
Q. Now, Mr. Smythe, I will ask you to state what is
known in railroading as 'proportional rates,' what does
that expression mean, if it has any fixed or definite meaning? A. Proportional rates are rates established in a great
many centers-grain centers, if you please-on grain
coming from any territory which may be shipped there
for reshipment.

.

.

.

Q. I will ask you if the words

Q.

Can you give us an illustration

'proportional rates' have- a fixed and definite meaning
among railroad men, especially among traffic men?
A. Yes, sir.

.

so we will understand it more definitely? Give your own
illustration of shipments coming into Kansas City and

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

going out again. A. We will take Wichita, Kansas.
Some Kansas City firm will buy hay and grain there from a
Wichita dealer, or some point in that territory, and ship
that hay to Kansas City to John Jones Commission Co.
Mr. Jones pays the freight on that car, and in the meantime . . . he may have sold that car of hay or grain
to go to New Orleans, . . . and he accordingly
comes to you, or presents to the general agent the expense
bill covering the freight in, and when that is checked to
see that the correct rate is applied it goes out on a proportional rate from Kansas City or any other point where
the proportional rate applies, at the proportional rate
named in the tariff. . . . Q. Explain in your own way.
A. You want me to explain what that tariff [the proportional one now under consideration] means? What it
would apply on? Q. Yes, sir, just explain the meaning of
this expression 'in connection with the Chicago Great
Western' and the other roads. A. That tariff would apply
on grain coming into Kansas City on any railroad in
America [and bound] to Texarkana. . . . Q. You say
it would apply on grain coming into Kansas City from any
point in the world? Yes, sir, any place in America."
This testimony, bearing upon the meaning of the proportional rate. schedules, was not in any way contradicted.
It was not shown whether those schedules were sanctioned by the other railroads over which the haul, when
there was such, from the common points to the garnishee's
road was to be made; and while it was shown that those
schedules were regularly printed and that copies thereof
were sent to the freight offices of the garnishee at Kansas
City and other points and were there kept open to public
inspection, it was not shown that copies were posted in
public and conspicuous places in those offices.
Respecting the existence of an applicable local rate on
the northern line from Omaha to Kansas City, the witness
Smythe' testified:" Q. I will ask you to state if you know

KANSAS CITY SO. RY. v. ALBERS COMM. CO. 589
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

what the rate was in 1901 on grain between Omaha and
Kansas City? A. Yes, sir. Q. I will ask you to state what
it was. A. The rate was 9 cents. Q. Is that what you call
a legal rate? A. It was the legal rate; yes, sir. Q. That is,
between Omaha and Kansas City? A. Yes, sir. Q. On
what roads was that -in effect? A. In effect over the
Burlington, Missouri Pacific and all lines reaching Omaha
running into Kansas City." This testimony was offered
and admitted without objection, and its effect was in no
way impaired or qualified, save as the same witness, as
also others, testified to the existence of a rate of 6Y2 cents,
called the "Missouri arbitrary," on grain carried from
Omaha to Kansas City when destined to points beyond.
If this latter was an individual rate of the northern line,
and not a conventional division of some joint through rate,
as to which the testimony was somewhat uncertain, it was
applicable to the shipments in question; otherwise the
9-cent rate was applicable. In either event there was a
lawful local rate covering the haul over the northern line.
At the trial the plaintiff took the position, not that the
proportional rate was unreasonable, preferential, discriminatory or otherwise objectionable under the Interstate Commerce Act, but.that the special agreement was
valid and the garnishee consequently was under a common
law liability to Forrester Brothers for all that it had collected in excess of the stipulated 8-cent rate for the haul
over its road. And the garnishee's position, insisted upon
throughout the trial, is reflected by the following declarations of law which it.tendered and the court rejected:
"Where an interstate shipment of merchandise passes
from the point of origin to the point of destination over
the lines of two separate carriers, and such carriers have
not, by agreement, established a joint rate over their said
lines and filed and published the same in the manner required by the Interstate Commerce Act, then the only
lawful charge for transportation to be applied to such

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

shipment is the published tariff rate of the first carrier
from the point of origin of the shipment to the point of
connection with the second carrier, plus the published
tariff charge of the second carrier from the point of connection with the first carrier to the point of destination.
-'On interstate shipments of merchandise the only lawful rates applicable thereto are such rates as have been
filed and published in the manner required by the Interstate Commerce Act."
And, applying those declarations to the evidence, the
garnishee insisted that during the time of the shipments
in question lawfully established local rates, applicable
thereto, were in force upon the two roads, and that those
rates were not superseded or displaced by the special
agreement with the shipper; that the rates agreed upon,
that is, the joint through rate and the 8-cent rate, never
became legally operative, because never embraced in any
schedule filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission;
and, finally, that the charges exacted for the haul over its
road conformed to the lawfully established rate, and were
the only charges which lawfully could have been accepted.
The trial court sustained the plaintiff's position, made a
general finding in its favor, and entered judgment thereon
against the garnishee. The Supreme Court of the State
affirmed the finding and judgment (79 Kansas, 59), and
this writ of error was then allowed.
Consideration must first be given to a. motion to dismiss, advanced upon two grounds: (1) That no right or
immunity under a stattite of the United States was"specially set up or claimed," within the meaning of
Rev. Stat., § 709, in the state courts, and (2) that-in these
courts the facts were found generally against the gari'hee,
that the finding is conclusive upon this court, and that the
errors assigned, when rightly considered, but challenge the
finding, and therefore present nothing which is open to
review.

KANSAS CITY SO. RY. v. ALBERS COMM. CO. 591
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The first ground obviously is not tenable. The garnishee insisted throughout the proceedings that no recovery could be had against it consistently with the
Interstate Commerce Act, because in disregarding the
agreement for the special rate and in exacting the proportional rate, first of 10 and later of" 14 cents, it but conformed to the provisions of that act governing the rates
to be applied to interstate shipments, This was an adequate assertion of a right or immunity under that act,
for it named the act, indicated wherein it was claimed to
be applicable, and invoked its protection. Nutt v. Knut,
200 U. S. 12; Texas and Pacific Railway Co. v. Abilene
Cotton Oil Co., 204 U. S. 426.
The second ground has more color, but is also untenable.
While it is true that upon a writ of error to a state court
we cannot review its decision upon pure questions of fact,
but only upon questions of law bearing upon the Federal
right set up by the unsuccessful party, it equally is true
that we may examine the entire record, including theevidence, if properly incorporated therein, to determine,
whether what purports to be a finding upon questions of
fact is so involved with and dependent upon such questions of law as to be in substance and effect a decision of
the latter. That-this is so is amply shown by our prior,
rulings. Thus, in Mackay v. Dillon, 4 How. 421, 447,
where the state courts had given to certain evidence an
effect claimed to be unwarranted by an applicable law
of Congress, it was held that their decision "on the effect
of such evidence may be fully considered here." In
Dower v. Richards, 151 U. S. 658, 667, where the conelusiveness of findings of fact by a state court was elaborately considered, it was recognized that where-the ques-tion is "of the c9mpetency-and legal' effect of the evidence
as bearing upon a question of Federal law the decision
may be reviewed by this court." In Stanley v. Schwalby,
i62 U. S.255, 274, 277-279, which was an aetion of eject-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

ment, the validity of an authority exercised under the
United States was drawn in question and depended upon
whether the United States had a good title to the land in
controversy. That question turned upon whether the
attorney for the United States, who had represented it
in the acquisition of the land, knew at the time of a prior
deed to one McMillan, and the state court found that he
had such knowledge. In this court it was insisted, on
the one hand, that the finding was conclusive, and, on
the othek, that the evidence was insufficient, as matter
of law, to warrant the finding, and could be examined to
determine whether this was so. In that connection this
court, although recognizing the general rule that findings
upon pure questions of fact are not open to review, said
(p. 278): "But so far as the judgment of the state court
against the validity of an authority set up by the defendants under the United States necessarily involves the
decision of a question of law, it must be reviewed by this
court, whether that question depends upon the Constitution, laws or treaties of the United States, or upon the
local law, or upon principles of general jurisprudence."
And, upon examining the evidence, this court held it
to be "wholly insufficient, in fact and in law, to support
the conclusion that the attorney had any notice of the
previous deed to McMillan," and accordingly reversed
the judgment of the state court. And in Schlemmer v.
Buffalo, Rochester & PittsburgRy. Co., 205 U. S. 1, a case
arising under the Federal Safety Appliance Law, wherein
the state court found that the deceased contributed to
his injury by his own negligence, thereby preventing a
recovery, this court exercised the power to examine the
evidence, notwithstanding a contention that the finding
was conclusive, and reversed the judgment upon the
g1und that it appeared that what had been found to be
contributory negligence was at most an assumption of
the risk, which was not a defense Under the Federal stat-

KANSAS CITY SO. RY. v. ALBERS COMM. CO. 593
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ute. Perhaps the most frequent exercise of this power
occurs in cases arising under the clause of the Constitution
forbidding a State to pass any law impairing the obligation of a contract, the existence of the contract in such
cases being a mixed question of law and fact. Louisville
Gas Co. v. Citizens' Gas Co., 115 U. S. 683, 697, a leading
case upon the subject, contains this statement of the settled rule: "Whether an alleged contract arises from state
legislation, or by agreement with the agents of a State,
by its authority, or by stipulations between individuals
exclusively, we are obliged, upon our own judgment and
independently 'of the adjudication of the state court, to
decide whether there exists a contract within the protection of the Constitution of the United States." A like
exercise of this power is shown in cases arising under
the clause of the Constitution requiring full faith and
credit to be given in each State to the judicial proceedings
of every other State. Huntingtonv. Attrill, 146 U. S.657,
684, was such a case. It was a suit in Maryland upon a
judgment obtained in New York under a statute of the
latter State imposing a liability for the debts of a corporation upon a director making a false certificate respecting
its condition. The Court of Appeals of Maryland held
that the judgment was.for a strictly penal liability and
therefore not within the protection of the full faith and
credit clause. But when the case came here it was held
that "if the state court declines to give full faith and credit
to a judgment of another State, because of its opinion
as to the nature of the cause of action on which the judgment was recovered, this court, in determining whether
full faith and credit have been given to that judgment,
must decide for itself the nature of the original liability."
And upon reaching the conclusion that in that instance
the original liability was not strictly penal this court
reversed the judgment of the Court of Appeals of Maryland.
VOL. ccxxmi-38

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

When due regard is had for the rule before indicated,
and so often applied in other cases, it does not admit of
doubt that in the present case we may examine the evidence, which has been properly incorporated in the record,
to determine whether the general finding necessarily involved the decision of questions of law bearing upon the
Federal right set up by the garnishee. And when this is
done it is manifest, as is amply illustrated by the r~sum6
which we have given of the evidence and contentions of
the parties, that the finding necessarily involved the decision of questions of the interpretation and application of
the Interstate Commerce Act (24 Stat. 379, c. 104; 25
Stat. 855, c. 382), and also of other questions of law bearing upon the Federal right, such as the legal effect of evidence.
Coming then to the questions arising upon the case
made by the evidence, we have seen that when the agreement for the special rate was made, and during the time
of the shipments in question, there was in force on the
garnishee's road a lawful proportional rate, at first of 10
and later of 14 cents, applicable to these shipments, unless
it was objectionable in some of the following particulars:
(a) Although it was shown that the schedules embodying this rate were regularly printed, duly filed with the
Interstate Commerce Commission, and kept open to public inspection at the freight offices of the garnishee at
Kansas City and other points, it was not shbwn that
copies were posted in public and conspicuous places in
those offices as required by § 6 of the Interstate Commerce Act. Posting, however, was not essentfal to make
rates legally operative, and was required only as a means
of affording special facilities to the public for ascertaining
the rates actually in force. Texas and Pacific Railway Co.
v. Cisco Oil Mill, 204 U. S. 449.
(b) It was not shown'that these schedules were sanctioned by the other railroads designated therein, they

KANSAS CITY SO. RY. v. ALBERS COMM. CO. 595
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

being the roads over which the haul to the garnishee's
road from the common points was to be made when the
shipments were received from connecting lines at those
points. Such a showing, however, was not necessary
here. The other roads had no interest in the rate as applied to shipments received by the garnishee from the
northern line at Kansas City, as were the shipments in
question. As applied to them the rate was not joint, but
an individual rate of the garnishee. The sanction of the
other roads was essential only to its application to the
haul from the common points, when there was such.
(c) As before stated, the heading of these schedules
indicated that they were adopted by the garnishee "in
connection with" other designated railroads, they being
the ones just mentioned as interested in the rate when
applied to shipments received from connecting lines at
the common points. This, it is contended, meant that
the rate was applicable only to shipments received by the
garnishee from those roads. But an examination of
the schedules satisfies us that they had no such meaning.
The heading merely reflected the fact that the rate, in
some of its applications, was to be a joint one as between
the garnishee and the designated roads. The schedules
themselves did not restrict the rate to shipments received
from those roads, but, on the contrary, indicated that
it was applicable to shipments received by the garnishee
at Kansas City from any connecting line. This view of
it was fortified, unnecessarily, as we think, by the uncontradicted testimony of expert witnesses, who declared
that the rate was applicable to shipments originating on
any connecting line, whether received by the garnishee
at Kansas City or by one of the designated roads at a
common point.
The uncontradicted testimony of witnesses likely to be
informed on the subject disclosed the existence of an applicable lawful rate on the northern line from Omaha to

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

Kansas City. True, this testimony was not the best
evidence, but, being offered and admitted without objection, it was evidence which could not be disregarded.
Diaz v. United States, 222 U. S. 574; Schlemmer v. Buffalo,
Rochester & Pittsburg Railway Co., 205 U. S. 1, 9; United
States v. McCoy, 193 U. S. 593, 598. And while it may
have been left somewhat uncertain as to which of two
such rates, one of 6Y2 and the other of 9 cents, was the
applicable one, it Was disclosed with certainty that it
was one or the other.
Such being the state of the evidence, the necessary
conclusiont, as matter of law, is that an applicable and
lawfully established local rate was in force on each road.
And as it was conceded that there was no established
joint through rate, it likewise is a necessary conclusion
that the shipments, even if moving on through bills of
lading, should have taken these local rates, unless the
latter were superseded or displaced by the special agreement.
We are thus brought to the question of the validity of
that agreement. Not only did it contemplate a departure
from the established local rates for the benefit of a single
shipper, but-no schedule embracing the rates agreed upon
was filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Section 6 of the Interstate Commerce Act, as it existed
at the time, laid upon every carrier subject to the provisions of the act the duty of filing with the Commission
and publishing schedules of the rates to be charged for
the transportation of property over its road, provided
for changing and superseding such rates by new schedules
so filed and published, and made it unlawful for such a
carrier to depart from any rate so established and in
force at the time. That section also required connecting
carriers, agreeing upon joint through rates, to file schedules
thereof with the Commission, made similar provision for
changing and superseding rates so' established, and like-

KANSAS CITY SO. RY. v. ALBERS COMM. CO. 597
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

wise prohibited any deviation from an established joint
rate while remaining in force. Other sections contained
provisions against unreasonable rates, unjust discriminations, undue preferences and the like. The chief purpose
of the act was to secure uniformity of treatment to all,
to suppress unjust discriminations and undue preferences,
and to prevent special and secret agreements, in respect
of rates for interstate transportation,. and to that end to
require that such rates be established in a manner calculated to give them publicity, to make them inflexible
while in force, and to cause them to be unalterable save
in the mode prescribed. In every substantial sense local
rates and joint through rates were placed on the same
level. Both were required to be openly established and
uniformly applied. True, the carriers were obliged to
establish local rates. and were left free t6 agree upon joint
through rates, or not, as they chose; but if they did agree
thereon, the rates could become legally operative only
by being established as prescribed in the act. The true
effect of the statute in this regard-we speak of the Statute as it existed in 1901-is clearly stated in the opinion
of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit,
in Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Railway Co. v. United
States, 157 Fed. Rep.. 830, 833, as follows:
"If an initial carrier accepts traffic for transportation
and issues its bill of lading over a route made up of connecting roads for which no joint through rate has been
published and filed with the commission, the lawful rate
to be charged is the sum of the established local rates
published and filed by the individual roads; or if, as was
the case here, there is a local rate over one road and a
joint rate over the others for the remainder of the route,
all published and filed with the commission; the lawful
through rate to be charged is the sum of the local and
joint rates. By failing to establish or concur in a joint
through rate for traffic accepted for interstate transporta-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

tion, each participating carrier impliedly asserts that the
rate which it has duly established, published, and filed
for its own line shall be a component part of the through
rate to be charged. It is competent for carriers, if conditions justify it, to make their proportions of a through
rate less than the local charges upon their own lines, but
in doing so they should observe legal methods, and if no
action to that end is taken they in effect adhere to the
rates established, published, and filed by them as applying
not only to local but to through traffic."
We conclude, as matter of law, that the special agreement was void, that the established local rates were unaffected by it, that the rate collected by the garnishee was
the applicable legal rate, and that the -finding and judgment should have been in favor of, and not against, the
garnishee.
To avoid any misapprehension in respect to the character of the liability sought to be enforced in this case, we
deem it .well to repeat that there was no claim of any right
to reparation or damages under the Interstate Commerce
Act, and no claim that the rate collected was unreasonable,
preferential, discriminatory or otherwise violative of that
act, but only an attempt to enforce a supposed liability
for a breach of the special agreement, See Texas and
Pacific Railway Co. v. Abilene Cotton Oil Co., 204 U. S.
426; Robinson v. Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Co., 222
U. S. 506.
For the reasons given the judgment of the Supreme
Court of Kansas is reversed, and the cause is remanded
for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Judgment reversed.

