OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

223 U. S.

In view of the paramount authority of Congress over
foreign commerce, through abundance of precaution we
say that nothing in this opinion implies a wat of power
in Congress, when exerting its absolute authority to prohibit the bringing of merchandise, the subject of such
commerce, into the United States, to cast upon one seeking
to bring in the merchandise, the burden, if an exemption
from the operation of the statute is claimed, of establishing
a right to the exemption.
While -it necessarily follows from what we have said
that the decree must be reversed, we are of opinion that
under the circumstances of the case it should be accompanied with directions to permit the Government, if
-desired, to ,amend the libel so as to present a case within
the statute as construed. The Mary Ann, 8 Wheat. 380.
Reversed.
HENDRICKS v., UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF OREGON..
No. 164.

Argued January 25, 1912.-Decided February 19, 1912.

The specification of the identity of a defendant and precise nature of
his offense is the end, and not the beginning, of a grand jury proceeding. Hale'v. Henkel, 201 U. S. 43.

An indictment for subornation of perjury committed Wfore a grand
jury inquiry into certain criminal violations of the law of the United
States relating to the public lands, disposal of the same, and the
unlawful fencing thereof, is not insufficiefit, as failing to set forth
the nature and cause of the accusation, because it does not state the
particular matter brought under inquiry. Markham v. United Statei,
160 U. S. 319.
THE facts, which involve the sufficiency of an indictment for perjury and the rights of the accused under the

HENDRICKS v. UNITED STATES.
223 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Sixth Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Alfred S. Bennett for plaintiff in error:
The provisions of the Sixth Amendment give to defendants in criminal cases important constitutional rights of
which the courts will not permit them to be deprived. A
substantial and serious failure to comply with its terms
raises a constitutional question which the defendant may
invoke as such, and which cannot be taken away by any
act of legislature. United States v. Cruikshank, 92 U. S.
542; State v. Weber, 62 Atl. Rep. 10.18; Hogue v. United
States, 184 Fed. Rep. 248; State v. Pettye, 84 Fed. Rep. 891;
State v. Silverberg, 78 Mississippi, 858; Moline v. State, 93
N. W. Rep. 228; State v. Mace, 76 Maine, 66; McLaughlin
v. State, 45 Indiana, 343; McNair v. People, 89 Illinois,
444; Reyes v. State, 15 So. Rep. 876; Bishop's New Crim.
Proc., §§-104, 108, 110; Rosen v. United States, 161 U. S.
31, 40; Turnbull v. United States, '46 Fed. Rep. 755;
United States v. Potter, 56 Fed. Rep. 83.
The particular proceeding in which the alleged false
testimony is claimed to have been given and to which the
alleged false testimony is claimed to be material must be
set forth in the indictment, whether the alleged perjury
was committed before a grand jury or before any other
tribunal. Cases supra and Commonwealth v. Taylor, 96
Kentucky, 394; 29 S. W. Rep. 138; State v. McCormick, 52
Indiana, 169; Banks v. State, 78 Alabama, 14; State v.
Wiggin (Miss.), 30 So. Rep. 712; Buller v. State, 33 Tex.
Crim. Rep. 551; Commonwealth v. Pickering, 8 Grattan,
628; State V"Koslowski, 228 Missouri, 351; State v. Ayer, 40.
Kansas, 43; 19 Pac. Rep. 403; State v. McCone, 59,Vermont,
117; State v. See, 4 Washington, 344; Wilson v.. State, 115
Georgia, 206; State V.Ela, 91 Maine, 309; Davis v. State,
79 Alabama, 20; United States v. "Wilcox, 4 Blatchford,
'391; Hope v. United States, 184 Fed. Rep. 245; State v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

Smith, 40 Kansas, 631; United States v. Robinson (Dak.),
23 N. W. Rep. 90; Brooks v. State, 29 Tex. Appeals, 582;
Weaver v. State, 34 Tex. Crim. Rep. 554; United States v.
Mann, 95 U. S. 580.
It is not enough that alleged false testimony may have
been material. Its materiality must be proven and established the same as any other fact in the case. McClelland v. People (Colo.), 113 Pac. Rep. 640; State v.
Aikins, 32 Iowa, 413; State v. Deneen, 203 Missouri, 628;
Koslowki v. State (Mo.), 128 S. W. Rep. 740; State v.
Smith, 40 Kansas, 631; Banks v. State, 78 Alabamai 14;
CQmmonwealth v. Pollard, 12 Mete. (Mass.) 229.
Mr. Assistant Attorney GeneralDenison, with whom Mr.
William W. Lemmond was on the brief, for the United
States.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of
the court.
The plaintiff in error, upon a conviction and sentence
for Subornation of perjury, in violation of § 5393, Revised
Statutes, prosecutes this writ of error upon the theory that
a question of constitutional right was involved, arising
upon a claim made in the court below that the indictment
was repugnant to the Sixth Amendment to the Constitution. On the assumption that there was jurisdiction to
entertain the writ, counsel also in argument assailed as
erroneous certain rulings of the trial court "admitting
evidence and instructions given and refused in the course
of the trial."
The -indictment consisted of two counts-the first
charging the subornation of one George W. Hawk, and
the second the subornation of one Clyde'Brown, to commit perjury in giving the testimony before a Federal grand
jury

HENDRICKS v. UNITED STATES.
223 U. 8.

.181

Opinion of the Court.

-As, however, on 'the trial the .Government elected to
rely upon the charge of. the subornation of Hawk, we are
concerned alone with the first count. The sufficiency of
this count was assailed by demurrer, it being alleged
"That the said count of said indictment and the matters
and facts therein contained, in manner and form as the.
same are stated, are not sufficient in law and are not sufficient to constitute a crime and are not direct and certain."
The protection of the Constitution was not, however,
invoked until after conviction, when a motion to arrest

judgment was made, "based upon the ground that' the
indictment in this case does not charge a crime,..and is insufficient and does not sufficiently describe the offense,.
'And does not inform the defendant of the nature and
cause of the accusation,' against him and is in violation of

and insufficient pnder the Sixth Amendment to the Constitution of the.United States."
The portions of the indictment which relate to the particular matter which was under investigation before the
grand jury, or which refer to the materiality of the alleged
testimony, and which it is claimed exhibits the repugnancy
of the indictment to the Sixth Amendnment, is, contained .
.in the. excerpt, which is. in the margin,' the italics being
That Hamilton H Hendricks, late of the County of Wheeler, in the
said district, on the fifteenth.day, of January, in the year of our Lord.
nineteen hundred and five, at and within the said County of Wheeler,
in the said district, unlawfully did wilfully and corruptly suborn,
instigate and procure one George W. Hawk to appear in person before
'them the said grand jurors, then and from thence hitherto sitting al
the city of Portland, in the said district, as a grand jury of the Circuit
.Court of the said United States for.the said district, and,.amongst other;
matters, inquiringinto. certain criminal violations of the laws of the said
United States relating to the public lands and the disposal of the same, and
the unlawful fencing thereof, which had then lately before been committed,
within the said disirict; and to take his oath before the said grand jury,,
and upon-his.oath so taken to testify, depose and swear before the said
grand jury in substance and to the effect that when he the said George.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223, U. S.

those of counsel, who assert that the italicized portion "is.
the portion bearing upon the question."
It is urged that the indictment did not sufficiently set
W. Hawk made his application dated October 19, 1898, and filed in the
land office of the said United States at The Dalles, Oregon, on October 21,
1898, to enter certain public lands known and described as the south-.
east quarter of the southeast quarter of section two, the east half of
the northeast quarter of section eleven, and the southwest quarter of
'the northwest quarter of section twelve, in township seven south and
range twenty-two east, reference being had to the Willamette meridian
and base line, as a homestead, under the laws of the said United States
concerning homesteads, the same was honestly and in good faith made
for the purpose of actual settlement and cultivation, and not for the
benefit of any other :person,• persons, or corporations; that he, the said,
Georg6 W. Hawk was not acting as agent of. any person, corporation
or syndicate in making such entry, nor in collusion with any person,
corporation or syndicate to give them the benefit of the land so entered, or any part thereof, or the timber thereon; that he was not applying to .enter the said lands for the purpose of speculation, but in
good faith and to obtain a home for himself;' that he had not -made,
and would not make, any agreement or contract with any person Or
persons, corporation or, syndicate, by which th title which he should
acquire from 'the said Urited States in. the said lands would inure, to
the benefit of any person except himself, and.that he himself paid the
fees required by law to be paid upon the filing of such application;that whep he the said' Geprge W. Hawk,,on the -second day of March;
in the year nineteen hundred, subscribed and'swore tohis affidavit and
testimony Qf final proof of settlement upon and 'cultivation of the said
lands, he had there-fore, to wit, in the month of April, '1899 , commenced
his residence on the said lands, and had not sold, conveyed or Moitgaged any portion: of the said lands: Ad thereupon the said George
W.Hawk, in consequence and by. means of thesaid willful and corrupt
subornation, instigation and" procurement of. the said Hamilton H.
'Hendricks, afterwards, to Wit, on the twenty-third day of January, inthe year nineteen'hundred and five, in the said district, did appear in
person before the' said grand jury, at Portland aforesaid, and then and.
there was in due mam,er sworn by the' f9remar thereof, and then and.
there took his the sai,' George W. Hawk's oath ,befdre the said grand.
.jury that.he would testify truly, and true answers make . .
. and
'whether he himself paid the fees requiredby law to be paid upon the
making of such final proof."

HENDRICKS v. UNITED STATES.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

forth "the nature and cause of the accusation" within the
meaning of the Sixth Amendment, because it did not 'set
.forth in some definite way the matter or thing which was
under investigation at the particular time, so that the defendant may know as to what particular controversy the
alleged false testimony is claimed to be material, and how
to meet the allegation of materiality." It is claimed "that
the indictment, in order to be sufficient, should have stated
the particularmatter which was being investigated by the
grand jury at the time, and to which it was claimed the
alleged false testimony was material;" and that if the
alleged false testimony concerning Hawk's final proof
upon his land "became material collaterally in some other
later matter, of which the grand jury did have ,jurisdiction

....

the collateral matter should have been set

forth, and the indictment should have alleged that it was
material in relation to that matter, so that the defendant
could have an opportunity to intelligently defend as to the
materiality of the alleged evidence as well as to other ele,ments of the.offense."
Reduced to their final analysis the contentions but assert that the. indictment did not apprise the accused of
the crime charged with such reasonable certainty that he
could make his defense and be protected after judgment
against another prosecutiou for the same offense. We-are
of opinion, however, that the principles settled by many
prior adjudications of this court are so controlling as to
foreclose discussion of the matter.
The description, in the indictment, of the proceeding in
which the perjury was committed is as follows:
Sitting as a grand jury

.

.

.

and, amongst

other matters, inquiring into certain criminal violations of
the laws of the said United States relating to the public
lands and the disposal of the same, and the unlawful'fencing thereof, 'which had then lately before been comnitted
within the said district."

184

4 OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Couit.

223 U. S.

That this description adequately advised the defendant
as to the identity of the proceeding in which the perjury
was committed is settled by the following- authorities:
Markham v. United States, 160 U. S. 319, 320; Williamson
v. United States, 207 U. S. 425; Rosen v. United States, 161
U. S. 29, 34, 40;. Dunbar v. United States, 156 U. S. 185,
192; Bannon v. United States, 156 U. S. 464, 468; Coffin v.

United State, 156 U. 'S. 432, 452, and Kirby v.' United
States, 174 U. S. 47, 64. A less definite description was
held sufficient in the Markham Case, where the indictment
..specified "an inquiry then pehding before and within the
jurisdiction of the Commissioner of Pensions of the
.United States, at Washington, in the District of Columbia." As the specification of the identity of a defendant
and the precise nature of his offense is normally the end,
and not the beginning of grand jury proceedings (Hale v.
Henkel, 201 U. S. 43, 61, 65), and the very object of the
proceeding may have been to determine the identity of
the criminal,, it was not- essential that the proceedings
should state the name of a specified defendant under investigation.
That the indictment was not wanting in definiteness,
because therein it Was in effect simply alleged that before'
the grand jury, after Hawk had been sworn, the truth of
-the recited matters' concerning which it was subsequently
alleged Hawk testified falsely, "became and was a material question,' find it was not specified in just what
evidentiary way the perjured.testimony became material,
is settled by the Markham Case (160 U. S., 324, 325),
where a similar point was directly held to be without
merit.
As'in view iof prior decisions, the contention based upon
the Sixth Amendment was manifestly frivolous,.it results.
:that the writ of error 'must be dismissed.
lit of error diamied.

