OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

223 U. S.

medical matters concerning which there is difference of
opinion and dispute. Hawker v.. New York, 170 U. S. 189;
Meffert v. Packer' 195 U. S. 625; Jacobson v. Massachusetts,

197 U. S. 11. See also Williams v. Arkansas, 217 U. S. 79.
Judgment affirmed.

MEYER, AUDITOR OF THE STATE OF OKLAHOMA, v. WELLS, FARGO & COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF OKLAHOMA.
No. 624. Argued January 16, 1912.-Decided February 19,-1912.'
In estimating for taxation the proportion of income of a corporation
doing interstate business, a State cannot include income from investments in bonds and lands outside of the State. Fargo v. Hart,
193 U. S. 490.
.The Oklahoma tax on gross revenue of corporations of 1910, as far as
it affects express companies, is not a property tax but a tax on all
revenue, including that *received from interstate commerce, and as
such ls an unconstitutional burden on interstate commerce. Galveston, Harrisburg& San Antonio Ry. Co. v. Texas, 210 U. S. 217.
Where a state statute requires that a corporation doing both interstate and intrastate business return its gross receipts from all
sources, the taxing feature of the statute cannot be construed as
relating -only to receipts from intrastate commerce, and sustained
separately in that respect.
Complainant in an equity suit to restrain the collection of a state tax,
on gross receipts, on the ground that the act'is unconstitutional because it includes receipts from interstate commerce, is not bound,
in order to maintain the bill, to tender so much as would have
fallen on intrastate receipts. People-s Bank v. Marye, 191 U. S.
272, distinguished.
The court cannot, reshape a taxing statute which includes elements
beyond the State's power of taxation simply because it embraces
elements that it might have reached had the statute been drawn
with a different measure and intent.

OKLAHOMA v. WELLS, FARGO & CO.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality of provisions of the statute of 1910 of the State of Oklahoma imposing a revenue tax upon receipts of express companies,
are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Charles West, Attorney General of Oklahoma, for
appellant.
Mr. S. T. Bledsoe, with whom Mr. J. R. Cottingham and
Mr. C. W. Stockton were on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the

court.
This is a bill for an injunction against a tax alleged to be
unconstitutional as a regulation of commerce among the
States. Upon demurrer three judges sitting in the Circuit Court granted the injunction, and the defendant
appealed to this court. The statute in question (March 10,
1910, Sess. Laws 1910, c. 44, p. 65) is entitled 'An Act
providing for the levy and collection of a gross revenue
tax from public service corporations in this State' and
from persons engaged in certain mining and similar occupations. By ยง 2 "Every corporation hereinafter named
shall pay the state a gross revenue tax . . . which
shall be in addition to the taxes levied and collected upon
an ad valorem basis upon the property and assets of such
corporation equal to the per centum of the gross receipts
hereinafter provided, if such public service corporation
operate wholly within the state, and if such public service corporation operates partly within and partly without the state, it shall pay tax equal to such proportion
of said per centum of its gross receipts as 'the portion
of its businesg done within the state bears to the whole of
its business;" with a proviso for fixing a different proportion if it "more fairly represents the proportion which

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

the gross receipts of any such public service corporation
for any year within this state bear to its total gross receipts." By ยง 3 the per centum to be paid by express
companies (such as the plaintiff is), is three per cent.
of the gross receipts, and, 'for the purpose of determining
the amount of such tax,' they are required to report under
oath the gross receipts 'from every source whatsoever.'
The plaintiff's receipts are largely from commerce
among the States, and it also feceives large sums as income from investments in bonds and land all outside
the State of Oklahoma. So that it is evident that if
the tax is what it calls itself it is bad on the former ground,
and that whatever it is it is bad on the latter. Fargo v.
Hart, 193 U. S. 490. In that case the tax was proportioned
to mileage, and it was held that it could not be sustained
when, although purporting to be a tax on property, it
took into account, in order to increase proportionately
the value of the mileage within the State, valuable property outside of it. The same principle would apply to a
property tax measuring the total property by the total
gross receipts increased by the special outside sources
of income and taxing a proportion of this total fixed by
the ratio of business within the State to that outside.
But we see no warrant for calling the tax a property tax.
It is so similar to the Texas statute held bad in Galveston,
Harrisburg & San Antonio Ry. Co. v. Texas, 210 U. S.
217, as to show that, if one is not copied from the other,
they have a common source. It would be possible only by
some extraordinary turn of ingenuity to sustain this after
condemning that.
It was argued in some detail that taking into account
the rest of the act and other statutes passed later at the
same session this really Was a property tax. But the
scope and purport of the act, so far as it affects express
companies, are too obvious to admit such a view. The
tax is "in addition to the taxes levied and collected upon

OKLAHOMA v. WELLS, FARGO & CO.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

an ad valorem basis." Even if we read the words which
follow without a comma, viz. "upon the property and assets of such corporation," as not qualifying those which
immediately precede but as attempting to characterize the
"gross revenue tax" as a tax on such property and assets,
nevertheless all the property and assets are the subject
of the ad valorem taxes referred to. Therefore" this tax
cannot be an attempt to reach the value of what is by
the law to be valued and taxed in a different way. It
would be difficult to apply toa tax levied in these days
the explanation of Maine v. Grand Trunk Ry. Co., 142
U. S. 217, given in Galveston, Harrisburg & San Antonio
Ry. Co. v. Texas, 210 U..S. 217, 226, Flint v. Stone Tracy
Co., 220 U. S. 107, 162-165, and to suppose it intended
to reach only the additional value given by its being part
of a going concern to property already taxed in its separate
items. There is nothing sufficient to indicate such a
limitation, and for the reasons given above on the authority of Fargov. Hart, 193 U. S. 490, it is plain that the gross
receipts from all sources could not have been used as a
means for estimating the going value of the property in
the State. We may add in this connection that this same
requirement as to the total gross receipts shows that it is
impossible to save the constitutionality of the act by construing it as referring only to the receipts from commerce
wholly within the State.
We do not gather that the appellant has any objection
to testing the validity of this tax in an equity suit, or
that any such objection was made below. Brown v.
Lake Superior Iron Co., 134 U. S. 530. 'Therefore we do
not consider whether there are any facts to take the case
out of the general rule established by the cases collected
in Boise Artesian Hot & Cold Water Co. v. Boise City,
213 U. S. 276. See Ludwig v. Western Union Telegraph
Co., 216 U. S. 146; Western Union Telegraph Co. v.
Andrews, 216 U. S.165. It was objected, however, that

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opiniorfof the Court.

223 U. S.

the bill cannot be maintained for want of a tender of so
much of the tax as would have fallen on the receipts
from commerce wholly within the State. But that requirement hardly can be made in this case, which is not
like one where the law simply fails to allow certain proper
deductions. People's National Bank v. Marye, 191 U. S.
272. Whether the statute could be construed as separable
of course would be ultimately for the state court in any
event. Telegraph Co. v. Texas, 105 U. S. 460. But we
see no possible construction on .which it could be upheld
without being so remodeled that it would be a mere speculation whether the legislature would have passed it in
the new form. For, to recur to the statute, it is not simply
a tax on all gross receipts within the State, which possibly
might be read as intended to reach . such receipts as it
could, even if less than all, Ratterman v. Western Union
Telegraph Co., 127 U.S. 411, it is a tax on a proportion
of total gross receipts a considerable part of which, as'
we have explained, the State has no right to tax. Neither
the court below nor this court can reshape the statute
simply because it' embraces elements that it might have
reached if it had been drawn with a different measure and
intent.
Decree affirmed.

