OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

223 U. S.

statute dealt only with a rule of evidence, not with any
substantive right. By making the entry of forfeiture
upon the official record prima facie, but not conclusive,
evidence that all preliminary steps essential to a valid
forfeiture were properly taken and that the forfeiture, was
duly declared, it but established a rebuttable presumption,
which he was at liberty to overcome by other evidence.
That such a statute does not offend against either the
contract clause or the due process of law clause of the
Constitution, even where the change is made applicable to
pending causes, is now well -settled. Pillow v. Roberts,
13 How. 472, 476; Marx v. Hanthorn, 148 U. S. 172, 181;
Turpin v. Lemon, 187 U. S. 51, 59; Lindsley v. Natural
Carbonic Gas Co., 220 U. S. 61, 81; Curtis v. Whitney,
13 Wall. 68; Cooley's Const. Lim., 7th ed. 409, 524-526.

It was because the plaintiff failed to assume and carry
the burden of overcoming the rebuttable presumption
established by the statute that he failed in his action.
Judgment affirmed.

DIAZ v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.
No. 384.

Argued November 16, 1911.-Decided February 19, 1912.

The provision against double jeopardy in the Philippine Act of July 1,
1902, 32 Stat. 691, c. 1369, § 5, is in. terms restricted to instances
where the second jeopardy is for the same offense as was the first.
Gavieres v. United States, 220 U. S. 338.
A charge of homicide made after death of the person assaulted is not
the same as a charge of the assault before the death of that person.
One cannot be put in jeopardy for the offense of homicide prior to the
death of the person upon whom the crime is committed.
Jeopardy cannot extend to an offense beyond the jurisdiction of the
court in which the accused is tried.

DIAZ v. UNITED STATES.
223 U. S.

Syllabus.

One convicted in the Philippine Islands of assault before the death of
the injured person is not put in second jeopardy, within the meaning
of § 5 of the Philippine Act of 1902, by being placed on trial for
homicide after the death of the person assaulted as a consequence
of the assault.
The right of confrontation with witnesses secured by § 5 of the Philippine Act of July 1, 1902, is in the nature of a privilege extended to,
rather than a restriction placed upon, the accused, and can be
waived or asserted as he sees fit.
The admission by consent of the accused, without qualification or
restriction of testimony taken elsewhere, is not a denial of the right
of confrontation with witnesses secured by § 5 of the Philippine Act
of July 1, 1902, and when so admitted, the testimony is equally
available to the Government and to the accused.
When evidence taken elsewhere is admitted generally and without
restriction by consent of the accused, it is not subject to the objection that it is hearsay.
The right to be heard by himself and counsel secured to the accused
in all criminal prosecutions by § 5 of the Philippine Act of July 1,
1902, is the substantial equivalent of the similar right embodied in
the Sixth Amendment, by which it should be measured. Kepner v.
United States, 195 U. S. 100.
One not in custody cannot avail of the right to be heard so as to defeat the right of the Government to try him by absenting himself
voluntarily and claiming that under the right to be present provisions of the Sixth Amendment the trial cannot proceed.
While the rule may be otherwise in cases that are capital, or where
the accused is in custody under the control of the court, or where
special statutory provisions apply, where the offense is not capital,
and the accused is not in custody, his voluntary absence does not
nullify what has been done in, or prevent the completion of, his
trial, but operates as a waiver of his right to be present, and leaves
the court free to proceed; and so held that the continuation of the
trial during the voluntary absence of the accused in this case while
it proceeded with his counsel present did not violate the provisions
of § 5 of the Philippine Act of July 1, 1902, giving him a right to
be present and heard.
Although concurrent findings of fact by both the Court of First Instance and the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands are entitled
to great respect, this court may independently examine the evidence,
and in this case, after so doing it affirms the judgment.
15 Phil. Rep. 123, affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Statement of the Case.

223 U. S.

ON May 30, 1906, at San Carlos, Province of Occidental
Negros, Philippine Islands, Gabriel Diaz, by blows and
kicks, inflicted bodily injuries upon Cornelio Alcanzaren,
and by reason thereof was the next day charged before
the justice of the peace of San Carlos with assault and
battery. At the hearing upon that charge Diaz was
found guilty of a misdemeanor and fined fifty pesetas and
costs, which he paid. Subsequently, on the tWenty-sixth
of June, Alcanzaren died, and Diaz was then charged before the same justice of the peace with homicide, it being
alleged that the death ensued from the bodily injuries.
At the preliminary investigation of this charge the justice
concluded that there was reasonable cause to believe that
it was well founded pnd accordingly held the accused to
await the action of the Court of First Instance. There
was then filed in that court a complaint charging Diaz
with the crime of homicide, not capital, upon which he
subsequently was tried, found guilty, and sentenced to a
term of imprisonment and other penalties.
When called upon to plead in the Court of First Instance
Diaz interposed a plea of former jeopardy, supported by
a copy of the record of the proceedings before the justice
of the peace upon the charge of assault and battery and at
the preliminary investigation, but the plea was overruled.
Then, during the trial, his counsel introduced in evidence
the record of those proceedings. In doing this the counsel
spoke only of "the proceedings in the case for a misdemeanor," but it otherwise appears that what was
meant was the record of both 'proceedings. Both were
embraced in a single document, authenticated by a single
certificate, and it clearly is disclosed that counsel on both
sides and the court treated the entire document as in
evidence. It embraced the testimony produced before the
justice at the hearing upon the assault and battery charge
and at the preliminary investigation, including the personal statement of the accused and the report of an au-

DIAZ v. UNITED STATES.
223 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

topsy, upon the body of the deceased, performed con-.
formably to the Philippine law; and it was partly upon
this testimony that the Court of First Instance rested its
judgment of conviction.
On two occasions, covering the examination and crossexamination of two witnesses for the government, Diaz,
who was at large on bail, voluntarily absented himself
from the trial, but consented that it should proceed in his
absence, but in the presence of his counsel, which it did.
Following his conviction, Diaz prosecuted an appeal to
the Supreme Court of the Philippines, where, subject to
a change made in the term of imprisonment (see Trono v.
United States, 199 U. S. 521; Flemisterv. United States, 207
U. S. 372), the conviction was sustained, 15 Philippines,
123, and the case was then brought here.
Mr. FredericR. Coudert, with whom Mr. Howard Thayer
Kingsbury was on the brief, for plaintiff inerror:
This court-has jurisdiction of the cause and power to
review all questions involved therein. § 10, Philippine
Civ. Govt. Act, 32 Stat. 695.
Having jurisdiction of the case there exists the power
to consider any question arising on the record. Penn Mut.
Life Ins. Co. v. Austin, 168 U.S.685, 695; Giles v. Harris,
189 U. S.475, 486; Homer v. United States, 143 U. S.570,
577; Burton v. United States, 196 U. S.283, 295.
The conviction was based upon the testimony of witnesses with whom the defendant was not confronted.
32 Stat. 692; Phil. Comp. Stat., § 3270. Defendant cannot waive this right nor can he legally consent that the
trial proceed in his absence. Thompson v. Utah, 170 U. S.
343, 354; Hopt V. Utah, 110 U. S.574. West v. Louisiana,
194 U. S.258, does not apply.
The use of the evidence against the defendant in the
homicide trial was, therefore, in itself reversible error.
Motes v. United States, 178 U" S.458.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

223 U. S.

The introduction of the record of the assault case upon
the homicide trial was merely in support of the defendant's
plea of former jeopardy, and was so recognized by the
court below (Rec., p. 51). Such record was merely evidence of the jeopardy. It was not, and could not be
evidence of the facts which were in issue in the former
trial. Kirby v. United States, 174 U. S. 47, 55.
The defendant's plea of former jeopardy was good and
should have been sustained. A prosecution for assault
and battery bars a second prosecution for homicide for
the same act, where the person assaulted dies after the
first and before the second prosecution.
This question appears never to have been presented to
this court or to any American court of high authority, and
is, therefore, open, and to be determined on principle, par-

ticularly in view of the conflicting character of the precedents in other courts. § 5 of Phil. Civ. Gov. Act; § 3281
Phil. Comp. Stat.; Kepner v. United States, 195 U. S.100;
Trono v.United States, 199 U. S.521; Gavieres v. United
States, 220 U. S.338; Hammond's Blackstone, IV, 431;
Burton v. United States, 202 U. S.344, 380; Carter v. McClaughry, 183 U. S.365, 395; Hans Neilsen, Petitioner,131
U. S.176.
To make the same act constitute several different
crimes and prosecute for them all seriatim opens possibilities of persecution which the rule against second jeopardy
is designed and should be made effective to prevent.
State v. Cooper, 1 Green (N. J. Law), 361; Queen v. Elrington, 1 B. & S.187; Reg. v. Mileg, 17 Cox Cr. Cas. 9. See
also Reg. v. Stanton, 5 Cox Cr. Cas. 324; Wemyss v. Hopkins, L. R. 10 Q. B. 378; Reg. v. King, 18 Cox Cr. Cas.
447; Blair v. Georgia, 81 Georgia, 629.
See dissent in Reg. v. Morris, L. R., 1 Crown Cases Reserved, 90. In that case and in Reg. v. Salvi, 10 Cox Cr.
Cas. 481 (note); Burns and Cary v. The People, 1 Park.
Cr. Rep. (N. Y.) 182; Commonwealth v. Roby, 12 Pick.

DIAZ v. UNITED STATES.
223 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

(Mass.) 496; Commonwealth v. Evans, 10 Massachusetts,
25; State v. Littlefield, 70 Maine, 452, either a new fact
supervenes, for which the defendant is responsible, and
changes the character of the offense, thus constituting a
new and distinct crime, or relates back to the time of the
assault. In other words, a man may first be prosecuted
and punished for his act, and afterwards for its consequences; but see Reg. v. Bird, 5 Cox Cr. Cas. 1, 20, rendered after the passage of an English statute providing that
upon any indictment for felony, involving an assault, the
jury might acquit of the felony and convict of the assault.
Under the laws of the Philippine Islands, upon any
prosecution the court may' convict of any subsidiary
offense involved in the offense charged. § 3284, Phil.
Comp. Stat.; United States v. Pineda, 4 Phil. Rep. 223.
In the case at bar, therefore, defendant might upon the
homicide trial have been convicted of the very assault for
which he had already been prosecuted and fined. He has,
therefore, been twice in jeopardy for the same offense, in
violation of the United States Constitution and the Philippine Civil Government Act; his second prosecution was
unlawful and his conviction should be set aside.' Reg. v.
Walker, 2 Moody & Robertson, 446.
The conviction was without any competent evidence to
support it and was contrary to law.
In reviewing a judgment based on the verdict of a jury
the court can always consider whether there was any
evidence to sustain the conclusion reached. Halsell v.
Renfrew, 202 U. S. 287, 292; Lancasterv. Collins, 115 U. S.
222, 225; Phil. Comp. Stat., §§ 2764, 2765, 3311.
The presumption of innocence is expressly provided for
by the Philippine statutes. § 3309, Phil. Comp. Stat.
It is an integral and essential portion of the law of this
country as laid down by this court. Kirby v. United
States, 174 U. S. 47, 55; Coffin v. United States, 156 U. S.
432, 458.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

The Solicitor General for the United States:
The jurisdiction of this court under the writ of error is
restricted to the question, whether any rights of the defendant secured by the Constitution or statutes of the
United States have been violated. Ong Chang Wing v.
United-States, 218 U. S. 272; Dowdell v. United States, 221
U. S. 325.
The conviction upon the prosecution for assault and
battery was not a bar to the prosecution for the homicide
resulting from the assault. Grafton v. United States, 206
U. S. 333; Commonwealth v. Roby, 12 Pick. (Mass.) 496;
State v. Littlefield, 70 Maine, 452; Johnsonv. State, 19 Tex.
App. 453; 1 Bishop's New Crim. Law, § 1059.
The right of the defendant to be confronted by the witnesses against him was not violated, for the record of the
preliminary investigation was in evidence by his act and
with his consent, for every' purpose to which it was relevant. Hancock v. State, 14 Tex. App. 392; Rosenbaum v.
State, 33 Alabama, 354; State v. Fooks, 65 Iowa, 452;
Williams v. State, 61 Wisconsin, 281; Reynolds v. United
States, 98 U. S. 145; Ansbro v. United States, 159 U. S.
695; West v. Louisiana, 194 U. S. 258; Paraisov. United
States, 207 U. S. 368; Weems v. United States, 217 U. S.
349; Dowdell v. United States, 221 U. S. 325.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER, after stating the case as
aobove, delivered the opinion of the court.

The provision against double jeopardy, in the Philippine
Civil Government Act of July 1, 1902,. 32 Stat. 691,
c. 1369, § 5, is in terms restricted to instances where the
second jeopardy is "for the same offense" as was the first.

Gavieres v. United States, 220 U. S. 338. That was not the
case here. The homicide charged against the accused in
the Court of First Instance and the assault and battery
for which he was tried before the justice of the peace, al-

DIAZ v. UNITED STATES.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

though identical in some of their elements, were distinct
offenses both in law and in fact. The death of the injured
person was the principal element of the homicide, but was
no part of the assault and battery. At the time of the
trial for the latter the death had not ensued, and not until
it did ensue was the homicide committed. Then, and not
before, was it possible to put the accused in jeopardy for
that offense. Commonwealth v. Roby, 12 Pick. 496; State
v. Littlefield, 70 Maine, 452; Johnson v. Sthte, 19 Tex. App.
453. Besides, under the Philippine law, the justice of the
peace, although possessed of jurisdiction to try the accused for assault and battery, was without jurisdiction to
try him for homicide; and, of course, the jeopardy incident
to the trial before the justice did not extend to an offense
beyond his jurisdiction. All that could be claimed for
that jeopardy was that it protected the accused from
being again prosecuted for the assault and battery, and
therefore required that the latter be not treated as included, as a lesser offense, in the charge of homicide, as
otherwise might have been done under Phil. Comp. Stat.,
§ 3284. State v. Littlefield, supra. It follows that the plea
of former jeopardy disclosed no obstacle to the prosecution
for homicide.
It is objected that the accused was deprived of the right,
secured to him by § 5 of the Philippine Civil Government
Act, supra, "to meet the witnesses face to face," in that
the judgment of conviction for homicide was rested in
part upon the testimony produced before the justice of
the peace at the trial for assault and battery and at the
preliminary investigation. But this objection overlooks
the circumstances in which-the record wherein that testimony was set forth was received in evidence. It was not
offered by the Government, but by the accused, and was
offered without qualification or restriction. And it is
otherwise manifest that the offer included the testimony
embodied in the record as well as the recitals of what
VOL. ccxxii-29

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

was done by the justice. It was all received just as
it was offered, no objection being interposed by the Government. In some respects the testimony was favorable
to the accused and in others favorable to the Government. It included a statement by the accused, who refrained from testifying in the Court of First Instance, and
also the report of an autopsy which was favorable to him.
In these circumstances the testimony was rightly treated
as admitted generally, as applicable to any issue which it
tended to prove, and as equally available to the Government and the accused. Sears v. Starbird, 78 California,
225, 230; Diversy v. Kellogg, 44 Illinois, 114,121. True, the
testimony could not have been admitted without the consent of the accused, first, because it was within the rule
against hearsay and, second, because the accused was
entitled to meet the witnesses face to face. But it was not
admitted without his consent, but at his request, for it
was he who offered it in evidence. So, of the fact that it
was hearsay, it suffices to observe that when evidence of
that character is admitted without objection it is to be
considered and given, its natural probative effect as if it
were in law admissible. Damon v. Carrol, 163 Massachusetts, 404, 408; Sherwood v. Sissa, 5 Nevada, 349, 355;
United States v. McCoy, 193 U. S. 593, 598; Schlemmer v.
Buffalo &c. Ry. Co., 205 U. S. 1, 9; Neal v. Delaware, 103
U. S. 370, 396; Foster v. United States, 178 Fed. Rep. 165,
176. And of the fact that it came from witnesses who
were not present at the trial it is to be observed that the
right of confrontation secured by the Philippine Civil
Government Act is in the nature of a privilege extended to
the accused, rather than a restriction upon him, State v.
McNeil, 33 La. Ann. 1332, 1335, and that he is free to
assert it or to waive it, as to him may seem advantageous.
That this is so is, a necessary conclusion from the adjudged
cases relating to the like right secured by the constitutions
of the several States and the Constitution of the United

DIAZ v. UNITED STATES.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

States. Thus, it is held that the right is waived where, by
the consent of the accused, the prosecution is permitted
to read in evidence the testimony of an absent witness
given in some prior proceeding, Hancock v. State, 14 Tex.
App. 392; Rosenbaum v. State, 33 Alabama, 354; Williams
v. State, 61 Wisconsin, 281; State v. Polson, 29 Iowa, 133;
or a statement of what such a witness would testify, if
present, as embodied in an agreement made to avoid a
continuance or to dispense with the presence of the witness,
State v. Wagner, 78 Missouri, 644, 648; State v. Fooks, 65
Iowa, 452; State v. Mortensen, 26 Utah, 312; State v. Lewis,
31 Washington, 75, 88; or the deposition of such a witness
taken within or without the jurisdiction, Butler v. State,
97 Indiana, 378; State v. Vanella, 40 Montana, 326; Wightman v. People, 67 Barb. 44; People v. Guidici, 100 N. Y.
503, 508; People v. Murray, 52 Michigan, 288. In the last
case, which involved a conviction for murder in the second
degree, the question presented and the ruling thereon were
stated by Judge Cooley as follows (p. 290):
"A chief ground of error relied upon is that the prosecution was allowed to put in evidence certain depositions
taken odt of court of witnesses not present at the trial.
The facts seem to be that the attorneys for the respective
parties stipulated to put in certain depositions on both
sides, and they were put in accordingly. This, it is said,
was in violation of the respondent's constitutional right
to be confronted with his witnesses. But the court made
no ruling in the matter; what was done was voluntarily
done by the parties; the defendant had the benefit of the
stipulation, and, for aught we can know, it may have been
made chiefly in his interest. . . . The defendant undoubtedly had a constitutional right to be confronted with
his witnesses. He waived that right in this case, apparently for his own supposed advantage and to obtain evidence on his own behalf. It would have been a mere
impertinence for the court to have interfered and pre-

452",

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

. 223 U. S.

cluded this stipulation being acted upon. But it would
have been more than an impertinence.; it would have been
gross error. And it would be palpable usurpation of power
for us now to set aside a judgment for a neglect of the
court not at the time complained of, but in respect to
something where any other course would have been plain
error. Under the view taken by the respondent it would
seem that when the evidence had been obtained under his
stipulation, the court was put in position where it was
impossible to avoid error; for if the evidence was received,
he might complain, as he does now, that his constitutional
right was violated, and if the court refused to receive it
when he was consenting, the respondent would be entitled
to have the conviction set aside for that error."
The view that this right may be waived also was recognized by this court in Reynolds v. United States, 98 U. S.
145, 158, where testimony given on a first trial was held
admissible on a second, even against a timely objection,
because the witness was absent by the wrongful act of the
accused. In that case it was said:
"The Constitution gives the accused the right to a trial
at which he should be confronted with the witnesses
against him; but if a witness is absent by his own wrongful
procurement; he cannot complain if competent evidence
is admitted to supply the place of that which he has kept
away. The Constitution does not guarantee an accused
person against the legitimate consequences of his own
wrongful acts. It grants him the privilege of being confronted with the witnesses against him; but if he voluntarily keeps the witnesses away, he cannot insist on his
privilege. If, therefore, when absent by his procurement,
their evidence is supplied in some lawful way, he is in no
condition to assert that his constitutional rights have been
violated."

As here the accused, by his voluntary act, placed in
evidence the testimony disclosed by the record in question,

DIAZ v., UNITED STATES.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and thereby sought to obtain an advantage from it, he
waived his right of confrontation as to that testimony and
cannot now complain of its consideration.
It also is objected that the accused was wrongly convicted in that the trial proceeded in part in his absence.
The ?acts in this connection are these: The accused was
represented and heard by counsel at every stage of the
proceedings. He also was present in person at all the proceedings preliminary to the trial and at the time it was begun and during the major part of it. But on two occasions,
in the latter part of the trial, he voluntarily absented himself and sent to the court a message expressly -consenting that the trial proceed in his absence, which was done.
On these occasions two witnesses for the Government
were both examined and cross-examined. No complaint
grounded upon his absence was made in the trial court
or in the Supreme Court of the Philippines; and the objection now made is, not that he did not voluntarily
waive his right to be present, if he could waive it, but that
it could not be waived, and that the court was therefore
without power to proceed in his absence.
The Philippine laws, Comp. Stat. 1907, pp. 1004, 1005,
1006, 1009, contain the following provisions, bearing upon
the presence of the accused at the proceedings upon a
charge for felony:
"SEC. 3270. In all criminal prosecutions the defendant
shall be entitled (a) to appear and defend in person and by
counsel at every stage of the proceedings. .
"SEC. 3271. . . . If the charge is for felony (delito),
the defendant must be personally present at the arraignment; . .
"SEc. 3280. A plea of guilty can be put in only by the
defendant himself in open court. . .
"SEC. 3296. The defendant must be personally present
at the time of pronouncing judgment if the conviction is
"
for a felony;

OCTOBER TERM, 1011.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

Not only is there such a difference in the terms of these
sections as naturally implies a difference in meaning, but
it is evident that unless the first means something less
than that the accused must be present at every stage of
the proceedings there was no occasion for the provisions
quoted from the others, and also that if the terms used in
the others were deemed essential to express the thought
that the accused must be present at particular stages of
the proceedings, like terms would have been employed
in the first had it been intended to make his presence
equally requisite at other stages. It, therefore, is evident
that the effect of these sections, when their differing terms
are considered, is to make the presence of the accused indispensable at the arraignment, at the time the plea is
taken, if it be one of guilt, and when judgment is pronounced, and to entitle him to be present at all other
stages of the proceedings, but not to make his presence
thereat indispensable. As here it does not appear, and is
not claimed, that the accused was absent at any of the
tines when his presence was thus made indispensable,
and as his absence during the latter part of the trial was
not only voluntary, but coupled with an express consent
that it should proceed in the presence of his counsel, as
was done, it is plain that there was no infraction of the
Philippine laws in that regard.
We are thus brought to the question whether the provision in §5 of the Philippine Civil Government Act, securing to the accused in all criminal prosecutions "the
right to be heard by himself and counsel," makes his presence indispensable at every stage of the trial, or invests
him with a right which he is always free to assert but
which he also may waive by his voluntary act. Of course
if that provision makes his presence thus indispensable,
it is of no moment that'the Philippine laws do not go so
far, for they cannot lessen its force or effect. An identical
or similar provision is found in the -constitutions of the

DIAZ v. UNITED STATES.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

several States, and its substantial equivalent is embodied
in the Sixth Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States. It is the right which these constitutional provisions secure to persons accused of crime in this country
that was carried to the Philippines by the congressional
enactment, and, therefore, according to a familiar rule,
the prevailing course of decision here may and should be
accepted as determinative of the nature and measure of
the right there. Kepner v. United States, 195 U. S. 100,
124.
As the offense in this instance was a felony, we may put
out of view the decisions dealing with this right in cases
of misdemeanor. In cases of felony our courts, with substantial accord, have regarded it as extending to every
stage of the trial, inclusive of the empaneling of the jury
and the reception of the verdict, and as being scarcely less
important to the accused than the right of trial itself.
And with like accord they have regarded an accused who
is in custody and one who is charged with a capital offense
as incapable of waiving the right; the one, because his
presence or absence is not within his own control, and the
other because, in addition to being usually in custody, he
is deemed to suffer the constraint naturally incident to an
apprehension of the awful penalty that would follow conviction. But, where the offense is not capital and the
accused is not in custody, the prevailing rule has been,
that if, after the trial has begun in his presence, he voluntarily absents himself, this does not nullify what has
been done or prevent the completion of the trial, but, on
the contrary, operates as a waiver of his right to be present
and leaves the court free to proceed with the trial in like
manner and with like effect as if he were present. Fight
v. State, 7 Ohio, pt. 1, 181; Wilson v. State, 2 Oh. St. 319;
McCorkle v. State, 14 Indiana, 39, 44; Hill v. State, 17
Wisconsin, 675; Stoddard v. State, 132 Wisconsin, 520;
Sahlinger v. People, 102 Illinois, 241; Gallagher v. People,

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

211 Illinois, 158; Barton v. State, 67 Georgia, 653; Robson
v. State, 83 Georgia, 166; Price v. State, 36 Mississippi, 531;
Gales v. State, 64 Mississippi, 105; State v. Ricks, 32 La.
Ann. 1098; State v. Perkins, 40 La. Ann. 210; State v.
Kelly, 97 N. Car. 404; Lynch v. Commonwealth, 88 Pa. St.
189; Gore v. State, 52 Arkansas, 285; State v. Hope, 100
Missouri, 347; Frey v. Calhoun Circuit Judge, 107 Michigan, 130; People v. Mathews, 139 California, 527; State v.
Way, 76 Kansas, 928; Commonwealth v. McCarthy, 163
Massachusetts, 458; United States v. Davis, 25 Fed. Cas.
773; United States v. Loughery, 26 Fed. Cas. 998; Falk v.
United States, 15 App. D. C. 446, 454; S.C., 181 U. S.618.
The reasoning upon which this rule of decision rests is
clearly indicated in Barton v. State, supra, where it is said
by the Supreme Court of Georgia:
"It is the right of the defendant in cases of felony
to be present at all stages of the trial-especially at the
rendition of the verdict, and if he be in such custody and
confinement . . . as not to be present unless sent for
and relieved by the court, the reception of the verdict during such compulsory absence is so illegal as to necessitate
the setting it aside. . . . The principle thus ruled is
good sense and sound law; because he cannot exercise the
right to be present at the rendition of the verdict when in
jail, unless the officer of the court brings him into the
court by its order.
"But the case is quite different when, after being present through the progress of the trial and up to the dismissal of the jury to their room, he voluntarily absents
himself from the court room where he and his bail obligated themselves that he should be. .
.
And the
absolute necessity of the distinction, or the abolition of
the continuance of the bail when the trial begins, is seen,
when it is considered that otherwise there could be no conviction of any defendant unless he wished to be present at
the time the verdict is rendered."

DIAZ v. UNITED STATES.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

True, in that case the defendant was absent only at the

reception of the verdict, but the decisions, as also the reasoning upon which they proceed, embrace absences at
other stages of the trial. In Falk v. United States, supra,
the accused, who was at large on bail, was present when
the trial was begun and during the taking of a portion of

the evidence for the Government, and then fled the jurisdiction. He was called and defaulted, and the trial proceeded in his absence, the remaining evidence being taken

and a verdict of guilt returned. Subsequently he was
apprehended, and sentence was then imposed, notwithstanding his objection that the trial had proceeded in his
absence. In affirming the judgment the Court of Appeals,
speaking through Mr. Justice Morris, said:
(p. 454) "It does not seem to us to be consonant with
the dictates of common sense that an accused person, being
at large upon bail, should be at liberty, whenever he
pleased, to withdraw himself from the courts of his country and to break up a trial already commenced. The
practical result of such a proposition, if allowed to be law,
would be to prevent any trial whatever until the accused
person himself should be pleased to permit it. For by the
statute (Rev. Stat. of U. S. Sec. 1015) he is entitled as a
matter of right to be enlarged upon bail 'in all criminal
cases where the offense is not punishable by death;' and,
therefore, in all such cases he may by absconding prevent
a trial. This would be a travesty of justice which could
not be tolerated; and it is not required or justified by any
regard for the right of personal liberty. On the contrary,
the inevitable result would be to abridge the right of personal liberty by abridging or restricting the right now
granted by the statute to be abroad on bail until the verdict is rendered. And this the counsel for the appellant
appear candidly to admit. But we do not think that any
rule of law or constitutional principle leads us to any conclusion that would be so disastrous as well to the adminis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

tration of justice as to the true interests of civil liberty. .
(p. 460) "The question is one of broad public policy,
whether an accused person, placed upon trial for crime and
protected by all the safeguards with which the humanity
of our present criminal law sedulously surrounds him, can
with impunity defy the processes of that law, paralyze
the proceedings of courts and juries and turn them into a
solemn farce, and ultimately compel society, for its own
safety, to restrict the operation of the principle of personal
liberty. Neither in criminal nor in civil cases will the law
allow a person to take advantage of his own wrong. And
yet this would be precisely what it would do if it permitted
an escape from prison, or an absconding from the jurisdiction while at large on bail, during the pendency of a trial
before a jury, to operate as a shield."
But it is said that the question has been ruled otherwise
by this court in Hopt v. Utah, 110 U. S. 574; Lewis v.
United States, 146 U. S. 370; Schwab v. Berggren, 143 U. S.
442, and Thompson v. Utah, 170 U. S. 343. We think this
is not the import of those cases. in each the accused was
in custody, charged with a capital offense, and was sentenced to death. In the first, a part of the trial was had
in his absence notwithstanding the territorial statute declared that he "must be personally present." He did
not object at the time, and it subsequently was claimed
that, by his silence, he had consented to what was done.
But this court held otherwise, saying: "That which the
law makes essential in proceedings involving the deprivation of life or liberty cannot be dispensed with or affected
by the consent of the accused, much less by his mere failure, when on trial and in custody, to object to unauthorized methods." In the second case, "the prisoner
was not-brought face to face with the jury until after the
challenges had been made and the selected jurors were
broughtinto the box to be sworn," and he excepted at the

DIAZ v. UNITED STATES.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

time to the mode in which the challenges were required to
be made. The ruling in this court was that the making
of the challenges was an essential part of the trial, and
that it was the right of the accused to be brought face to
face with the jurors when the challenges were made. The
other two cases are even less in point. In one the question
was, whether the presence of the accused was essential in
proceedings on error in an appellate court, and it was held
that it was not essential. And in the other the question
was, whether, when the applicable law contemplated that
the accused should be tried before a tribunal composed of
a court and a jury of twelve, he could by his silence or consent authorize a tribunal differently composed, and not
recognized by law, to try him; and it was held that he
could not.
We conclude that the Philippine laws before quoted
accord to one charged with a felony the full right expressed in the congressional enactment, as that right was
recognized and understood in this country at the time it
was carried to the Philippines, and that in what was
done in the present case there was no infringement of
it.
Lastly, it is insisted that the evidence was inadequate
to warrant the conviction. The trial was to the court
without a jury, as is permitted in the Philippines, and
both the trial court and the Supreme Court of the Islands
concurred in finding the accused guilty under the evidence.
Of course, these concurring findings are entitled to great
respect. Nevertheless, following the rule recognized in
Wiborg v. United States, 163 U. S. 632, 658, and Clyatt v.
United States, 197 U. S. 207, 222, we have attentively
examined the evidence as set forth in the record and discussed in the opinions of the Philippine courts, and are
clearly of opinion that the conviction was warranted
by it.
Judgment affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
LAMAR,

MR. JUSTICE LAMAR,

J., dissenting.

223 U. S.

dissenting.

I dissent, because the trial was conducted in accordance
with the rules of procedure of the Spanish law, and in
disregard of the fundamental changes made by the Bill
of Rights of the Philippine Islands. The defendant was
not given a speedy trial, but was kept in jeopardy during
repeated and lengthy suspensions.
He was not confronted with the witnesses, but the court
accepted his telegraphic waiver, and the trial thereafter
proceeded without the defendant being present. Witnesses were examined, argument of counsel made, and
three months later sentence was pronounced, all in his
absence.
On appeal the judgment was reversed by the Supreme
Court of the Philippines, not for the purpose of setting
the judgment aside, but to inflict a penalty of more than
twofold severity and to raise the term of imprisonment
from six to fourteen years in the penitentiary.
The act of July 1, 1902, regulating the government of
the Philippine Islands, does not provide for trial by jury,
nor does it destroy the power of the appellate court to
change the sentence in a criminal case. But the absence
of the right to trial by jury, and the presence of the danger
of appeal make it all the more important to enforce those
safeguards copied from the Constitution of the United
States and granted the people of those islands.
Barring the right to indictment and trial by jury the
defendant charged with a felony before a Philippine court
has substantially the same rights as though he were on
trial in a United States court. And if this conviction
can stand, it must be because the same things would be
proper in this country, where the language of the Constitution is, in this respect, substantially the same as that
of Philippine Bill of Rights.
SEC. 5. "That in all criminal prosecutions the accused

DIAZ v. UNITED STATES.
223 U. S.

LAMAR,

J., dissenting.

shall enjoy the right to be heard by himself and counsel,
to demand the nature and cause of the accusation against
him, to have a speedy and public trial, to meet the witnesses face to face, and to have compulsory process to
compel the attendance of witnesses in his behalf.
"That no person shall be held to answer for a criminal
offense without due process of law; and no person for the
same offense shall be twice put in jeopardy of punishment,
nor shall be compelled in any criminal case to be a witness
against himself."
Not only the fact that the defendant's liberty is involved, but the further fact that the decision will be a
precedent in other cases, justifies a brief statement of
the facts and reasons on which this dissent is based.
The opinion proceeds upon the theory that while a defendant has the right to be confronted with the witnesses,
he may waive that privilege in all except capital cases.
In support of that proposition many authorities are cited.
In some of these cases the defendant was voluntarily
absent from the court room, for a short time, without the
attention of the court being called to the fact. In others
the defendant escaped while the trial was in progress.
In others, having given bail, he failed to return in time
to hear the verdict read. In all of them the court's decision was expressly, or by necessary implication, placed
upon the ground that the defendant could not take advantage of his own wrong, and render a trial nugatory by
escape or making an improper use of his bail.
These cases undoubtedly announce a correct rule. For,
when the trial of a felony begins it ought to proceed in
due and orderly course to verdict. The defendant has no
right to force the court to order a mistrial. If he escapes
or takes advantage of his bail to remain away during the
trial, the couirt proceeds, not because it is willing that he
should be absent, but because it is obliged to go on without
him. But because the court is compelled so to act under

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
LAMAR,

J., dissenting.

223 U. S.

such facts, it does not follow that it could or would consent for him to be absent during the trial; or, that it would
accept a formal waiver from him of the right to be confronted by the witnesses, or to be present when sentence
was pronounced. As said in Hopt's Case, 110 U. S. 579:
,"The argument to the contrary necessarily proceeds
upon the ground that he alone is concerned as to the
mode by which he may be deprived of his life or liberty.
This is a mistaken view. . . . The public has an
interest in his life and, liberty. Neither can be lawfully
taken except in the mode prescribed by law. . . . If
he be deprived of his life or liberty without being so
present, such deprivation would be without that due
process of law required by the Constitution."
It is true, as pointed out in the opinion of the court here,
that this was said in a case where the defendant was on
trial for his life. But the principle was announced in
language which, repeatedly and expressly, made it applicable to felonies and wherever the defendant might be
deprived of his life or liberty. The defendant, in such
cases, cannot waive his right to be present when his liberty
is involved, any more than when his life is at stake. And
it is a misnomer to say that when he escapes or refuses to
be present that he has waived the right. He has made it
impossible for the court to give him his rights.
But, even if the doctrine of waiver could be extended
beyond these cases of necessity, arising from flight and
voluntary absence after the trial began, it would not apply
in the present instance. The case was conducted from
beginning to end as though it were civil litigation, with
several suspensions of the trial-once for fourteen daysonce for thirty days--and with three months between the
argument and the rendition of the judgment. There was
in this case, therefore, no compelling necessity, as in those
cited in the opinion of the majority. The court accepted
the defendant's waiver, as though he alone had an interest

DIAZ v. UNITED STATES.
223 U.-S.

LAMAR, J.,

dissenting.

in the method of trial,-ignoring the fact that, as said in
the Hopt Case, "the public had an interest in his life and
liberty."
In order to make this want of necessity clear it will be
necessary to state some of the facts as they appear in
this record.
The defendant lived in the town of San Carlos in the
Province of Occidental Negros. He was charged with
having killed Alcanzaren in that municipality. After a
preliminary trial he was bound over to answer for the
charge of homicide-equivalent to manslaughter and not
punishable by death. He gave bond, and was subsequently brought to-trial before the Court of First Instance,
sitting at Bacolod, which,, according to the maps is about
30 miles from San Carlos and on the other side of the
Island. The distance between the two places by water
is about 100 miles.
Diaz was arraigned and plead "not guilty"' September 26, 1906. The case was several times continued, the defendant once or twice consenting. But on August 15,. 1907,
eleven months after arraignment, the trial began-the defendant and his counsel being present.
Two witnesses for the prosecution were examined.
"At the request of the Fiscal the hearing was suspended
and an order was issued for the arrest of". three absent
witnesses. The record does not show to what date the
court adjourned. But fourteen days later it reconvened,
the defendant and his counsel again being present. The
trial was resumed August 29, 1907, and two witnesses for
the prosecution were examined.
The record does not show why the proceedings were
again suspended, nor the date to which the court adjourned.
But it does appear that after a delay of thirty days the
court again reconvened, and that the judge had received
a telegram from Diaz. It is copied into the record, and
reads as follows:

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
LAm", J., dissenting.

223 U. S.

"SAN CARLOS, Sept. 20/07.
Judge JocsoN, Bacolod:
I waive right to be present during examination of government witnesses.
GABRIEL DIAZ."

Other entries of the same date show that "On September 20, 1907, in open court, the Honorable Vincente
Jocson of the Tenth District presiding, the Provincial
Fiscal and the counsel for defendent being present, the
accused himself having waived his right to be present at
the trial according to a telegram just received from him,
the trial of this case was resumed and Pelagio Carbajosa,
a witness for the prosecution, was examined. The prosecution then rested and counsel for defendant only introduced in evidence certified copy of the proceedings,"
before the Justice Court. ". . . The trial was then
adjourned for the purpose of allowing the Fiscal to introduce evidence in rebuttal."
The next day the court again met, the Judge, Provincial
and attorney for the defendant being present, "The trial
of this case was resumed and . . . a witness for the
prosecution was examined in rebuttal. The Fiscal then
rested his case and counsel for the accused waived his
right to introduce further evidence. Both parties having
rested, the Fiscal and counsel for the defendant respectively made their oral argument, and the court declared
the trial closed and took the caae under advisement."
The court, however, did not adjourn to a given date,
nor was there even a provision that the defendant and
his counsel should be notified of the time and place when
judgment would be entered and sentence pronounced.
The court waited ninety days. It then delivered an
opinion, entitled in the case, and dated "Bacolod, Dec. 24,
1907," in which he discussed the evidence, and concluded
by finding the defendant guilty and sentencing him to

DIAZ v. UNITED STATES.
223 U. S.

LAMAR,

J., dissenting.

confinement in the penitentiary for six years and one
day.
Notice of this sentence was evidently received by the
defendant, because on January 17, 1908, he entered an
appeal to the Supreme Court of the Philippines. One of
the judges of that court held that "there was no competent evidence to sustain a conviction," but the majority,
"notwithstanding the deficiencies and irregularities that
are observable in the prosecution of this case," reversed
the case, not for the purpose of setting aside the conviction, but solely for the purpose of increasing the penalty.
It thereupon sentenced him to a penalty of fourteen years
of reclusiontemporal, with the accessory penalties of Art. 59
of the Penal Code.
From these facts it will be, seen that the Philippine
Court of First Instance was not in the situation of an
American court with a jury impanelled and under the
necessity either of proceeding to verdict in the defendant's
absence or of discharging the jury and rendering the trial
nugatory. It assumed that if Diaz was willing to be absent the court could accept his waiver. The procedure
adopted was evidently in accordance with the judge's
view of the Spanish law, but in disregard of the fact that,
under the Bill of Rights, when the trial began the defendant stood upon his deliverance. There could thereafter
be the customary adjournments from day to day, but no
suspensions of the trial except "in case of urgent necessity," "and for very plain and obvious causes. " United
States v. Perez, 9 Wheat. 579; Thompson v. United States,
155 U. S. 271, 274.
At common law the trial of felonies was required to be
completed at one sitting. Of necessity this rule had to be
modified, and adjournments from day to day were finally
allowed. There are a few instances in which the case was
suspended for a reasonable time, in order to permit the
attendance of witnesses who had been unavoidably deVOL. ccxxiii-30

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
LAMAR,

J., dissenting.

223 U. S.

layed, or for other proper :cause, in the discretion of the
judge conducting the trial. But without regard to the
delay of eleven months between arraignment and trial, the
extremest extension heretofore allowed is insignificant by
comparison with those here, first for two weeks and then
for thirty days. In both these instances the record fails
to show that the defendant objected, and it may be that
if he can waive the-right to be confronted by the witnesses
he may waive the guaranty against multiplied jeopardy.
For that'right is not greater than the right to be present
at every stage of the trial.
The court being of the opinion that the defendant need
not be present at the trial, it is not surprising that he
thought the defendant might also be absent when judgment was rendered and sentence pronounced. It is true
that the Philippine Code expressly declares that the\.defendant "must be personally present at the time of pronouncing judgment if the conviction is for a felony."
But that could no more add to the Bill of Rights, than a
statute could repeal the requirement that the defendant
should be confronted with the witnesses, and be present
at every stage of the trial. That the defendant was not
personally present is both the legal inference and the
natural conclusion from what appears in the record.
'When the court took the case under advisement on September 21, 1907, it passed no order indicating when the
decision would be delivered, even if it had the right to
hold the defendant in suspense for days and weeks and
months. There was, therefore, no reason for the defendant
to be present at Bacolod on December 24, in anticipation
that judgment would be entered on that date.
There are cases which hold that where the record shows
that the defendant was present when the trial began,
there is a presumption that he remains in attendance,
and it is not necessary to repeat the statement in the
record, from day to day, so as to affirmatively show that

DIAZ v. UNITED -STATES.
223, U. S.

LAMAR,

J., dissenting.

he was present. In the present case the presumption
would be the other way, because, having been absent
during the last two days of the trial, there is no reason to
assume that he was present when, after an indeterminate
suspension, the court reconvened. At any rate there is
peculiar room for the application of the rule in Federal
courts announced in Lewis v. United States, 146 U. S. 370,
372, that "where the personal presence is necessary in
point of law, the record must show the fact."
In my opinion the conviction was not only erroneous
because the defendant was not present when the witnesses were examined and argument made, but having
been unlawfully put, in double jeopardy and judgment
equivalent to verdict having been pronounced. in his
absence, he is entitled to his discharge. Nolan v. State,
55 Georgia, 521.
It may be that such views would work a radical change
in criminal procedure in the Philippines. But when Congress incorporated the language of the Sixth Amendment
into the act of July 1, 1902, it must have intended to
make just such changes, and to require the trial to be
conducted in the American manner, and, among other
things, also to prohibit suspensions and undue prolongation of the hearing, so as thereby to prevent the pain and
anxiety which must inevitably be suffered by a prisoner
who is thus kept on a mental rack.
These considerations compel me to dissent, and to add,
that if the effort to review this judgment can lawfully
result in having the sentence more than doubled, it imposes a penalty on the exercise of the right, and makes
it worse to appeal than to submit to conviction on a record
which, the Supreme Court of the Philippines admitted,
presented "irregularities and deficiencies."

