OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

223 U. S.

ยง 4283 or the succeeding, ยง4284. Those sections have been
amended by the eighteenth section of the act of June 26,
1884 (23 Stat. 55, c. 121), so as to include "any and all
debts and liabilities" of the owner incurred on account
of the ship without his privity or fault. Richardson v.
Harmon, 222 U. S. 96.
The service was rendered to the res, benefiting alike
owner and creditors. The claim is, therefore, of a highly
meritorious character. But the question of preference in
payment out of the fund is one to be, determined in the
limited liability case. We, therefore, express no opinion
as to whether such a claim may be preferred or must share
pro rata with others.
The court below erred in proceeding to render a decree
after the pendency of the suit for a limitation of liability
was pleaded.
Decree reversed.
CUEBAS Y ARREDONDO v. CUEBAS Y ARREDONDO.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR PORTO RICO.

No. 159.

Submitted January 24, 1912.-Decided February 19, 1912.

Errors assigned_ s to finding of citizenship of a party dismissed from
the suit at instance of appellant are -not here for review except as
to the force and effect to be given to a decree pro confesso against
other defendants before dismissal of the bill.
Under the Foraker Act of April 12, 1900, 31 Stat. 85, c. 191, jurisdiction of the District Court of the United States was that of the
District and Circuit Courts of the United States; the additional
jurisdiction conferred by the act of March 2, 1901, 31 Stat. 953,
c. 812' did not extend the jurisdiction so as to embrace all controversies in which any litigant on either side is a citizen of the
United States or a subject of a foreign country.

CUEBAS v. CUEBAS.
223 U. S.

37T

Statement of the Case.

The District Court of the United States for Porto Rico has not jurisdiction of a cause in which the sole plaintiff is a citizen of Porto Rico
and any of the defendants are citizens of Porto Rico, notwithstanding one or more of the defendants may be citizens of the United
States or of a foreign country.
By the act of March 2, 1901, Congress did extend the jurisdiction of
the United States District Court for Porto Rico by cutting down
the necessary jurisdictional amount and dispensing with diversity
of state citizenship, by substituting United States citizenship
therefor.
The final decree following a pro confesso order is only such a decree as
would be authorized by the state of the pleadings when the order
was entered.
If a bill is fatally defective, showing that the court had no jurisdiction,
it is error to allow a pro confesso; the order should be vacated, and
the defaulting defendant allowed to defend.
Where an amendment is allowed that changes the character of the bill
and creates a jurisdiction not theretofore existing, the court should
set aside a default and give time to defend.
A decree nunc pro tunc presupposes a decree allowed or ordered, but
not entered through inadvertence of the court, or a decree under
advisement when the death of a party occurs. Mitchell v. Overman,
103 U. S. 62.
No attempt at revision having been made at any time, there is no
ground to enter a decree nunc pro tune in this case on any known
ground of equity procedure. Gray v. Brignardello, 1 Wall. 627.
3 Porto Rico Fed. Rep. 67, affirmed.

THE appellant, asserting herself to be a citizen of the
Island of Porto Rico, filed this bill to foreclose a mortgage
upon a plantation on the Island called "Carmelita.'.' The
defendants to the bill were three in number, namely,
Cuebas y Arredondo, alleged to be a citizen of the United
States, residing in Porto Rico, Francisco Antongiorgi, described as a citizen of and residing in Porto Rico, and El
Banco Territorial y Agricola, alleged to be a corporation
organized under the laws of Spain, and a citizen thereof,
doing business in the Island of Porto Rico, with its principal place of business in the city of San Juan.
The averments as to the title and encumbrances upon

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Statement of the Case.

223 U. S.

the said plantation, and the interests asserted by way of
lien, or mortgage, by the defendants Antongiorgi and El
Banco Territorial, etc., hereafter referred to as the Bank,
are complex, and for the purposes of this case, upon the
question now for decision, need not be stated otherwise
than to say that the bill alleged that they "have or claim
some interest in said mortgaged premises, or in some part
thereof, as purchasers, mortgagees, or otherwise, the exact
nature and extent of which interests are unknown to your
orator, if any at all they have, but the same are inferior
and subsequent to the lien of the mortgage of your orator
and subject thereto."
Aside from the usual prayer for a decree declaring and
enforcing the lien of the mortgage asserted by a sale, etc.,
the bill asked that "the defendants and all persons claiming under them subsequent to the commencement of this
suit, and all other persons although not parties to this
suit Who have any liens or claims thereon by or under any
such subsequent judgment or decree, either as purchaser,
incumbrancer or oiherwise, may be barred and foreclosed
of all equity of redemption in the said premises and that
your orator may have such other and further relief as the
nature of the case may require, and as to this court may
seem meet and agreeable to equity and good conscience."
The bill was filed April 6, 1904, in the District Court of
the United States for Porto Rico.
On July 11, 1903, the three named defendants, though
duly summoned to appear by a rule day named and make
their defense, made default, and the bill was on that day
taken for confessed under equity rule 19, et seq.
In March, 1905, the bank was permitted to file its answer, in which it denied the equities of the bill and asserted
its own superior right under mortgages, judicial sale, and
by estoppel.
In October, 1906, it was permitted to withdraw its
answer, and file a plea to the jurisdiction. That plea was

CUEBAS v. CUEBAS.
223 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

in these words, omitting the formal parts and conclusion:
"That this Court ought not to further take cognizance
of the said bill of complaint because this defendant says
that at the time of the filing of the same the Complainant
herein was and still is a citizen of the Island of Porto-Rico
and resident of the same and this defendant was and is a
corporation organized and doing business under and by
virtue of the laws of said Island of Porto-Rico and was
and is a citizen of the same, and each and all of the other
defendants herein are citizens and residents of the said
Island of Porto-Rico, and that therefore this is a suit by
and between citizens and residents of the said Island of
Porto-Rico, of which this Court has no jurisdiction.
"That, as shown by the said Bill of Complaint, the jurisdiction of this Court over and of this suit is sought to be
maintained not by reason of any Federal question being
involved herein, but solely and only by reason of the
alleged diverse citizenship of the parties herein and hereto
and that as shown by the allegation of the said Bill of
Complaint, the defendant is alleged to be a citizen of
Spain and another of the defendants, to wit: Felipe Cuebas
y Arredondo, is alleged to be a citizen of the United States
of America and another of said defendants, to wit: Francisco Antongiorgi, is alleged to be a citizen of Porto-Rico,
and that therefore it affirmatively appears by the allegations of the said Bill, if the same are true as therein alleged, that this is a case of which this court has not jurisdiction."
After first overruling this plea, for reasons set out in an
opinion (4 P. R. Fed. Rep. 208), a rehearing was allowed
and the plea sustained upon the ground that the bank was
not a corporation of Spain, but one existing under the
laws of Porto Rico, and a citizen of that Island for jurisdictional purposes (4 P. R. Fed. Rep. 509).
Prior to this action upon the plea of the bank, the date

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Statement of the Case.

223 U. S.

not appearing, the complainant voluntarily dismissed her
bill, as to- Francisco Antongiorgi, whom the bill had
averred to be a citizen of Porto Rico,
The judgment on the plea of the bank, above set out,
was, that for lack of the requisite diversity of citizenship
the bill-should stand dismissed, "unless within five days
from this date the bill can be amended so as to give the
court jurisdidtion."
Thereupon complainant entered an order, entitled:
"Irene Cuebas y Arredondo vs. Felipe Cuebas y Arredondo
et al.," which is in these words:
"Comes now the Complainant above named, by her
Solicitors F. L. Cornwell and N. B. K. Pettingill, and,
in pursuance of the permission granted by the Court
in its order of the 7th day of June, 1909, conditionally
dismissing said bill of complaint, hereby amend their
said bill of complaint for the purpose of retaining jurisdiction in this Court by dismissing the same as to said
defendant El Banco Territorial y Agricola.
"And in order to make said bill of complaint conform
to.such dismissal they hereby amend the same in the following particulars to wit:
I" 1. By' striking from the same the last four lines of
the preliminary paragraph of said bill in which the parties
thereto are stated.
"2. By striking out paragraph number X of said bill of
complaint.
' 3. By striking out the name of said El Banco Territorial y Agricola wherever the same appears in the prayer for
relief and in the prayer for process contained in said bill.
"And said bill of complaint having been heretofore
amended so as to dismiss one Francisco Antongiorgi
as a defendant therein and 'being now amended so as to
dismiss the same as to said El Banco Territorial y Agricola, complainant hereby elects to proceed with the same
as against the defendant Felipe Cuebas as sole defendant."

CUEBAS v. CUEBAS.
223 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

Thereupon the complainant moved the court for a final
decree against the sole defendant, Felipe Cuebas, "as of a
date prior to the death of Felipe Cuebas, so as to avoid
the necessity for reviving as against his succession,"
etc. This the court denied, and dismissed the bill.
From this decree an appeal has been prosecuted.
Mr. Frederick L. Cornwell and Mr. N. B. K. Pettingill,
for appellant:
The court below had jurisdiction of the case and of the
bank as a party thereto.
The defendant bank was, in law, a Spanish corporation.
It did not cease to be Spanish because by the cession of
Porto Rico its field of activity was no longer within Spanish
territory. Society &c. v. New Haven, 8 Wheat. 464, 483;
Society &c. v. Pawlet, 4 Pet. 480, 502.
Even if the bank was not a Spanish corporation, the
presence of one party defendant, who was a citizen of the
United States, was sufficient to give the court jurisdiction
of the cause and of all proper parties thereto.
A corporation owes allegiance to the sovereignty which
created it and must be considered a citizen or subject of
that sovereign, Bank of Augusta v. Earle, 13 Pet. 519;
Insurance Co; v. Francis, 11 Wall. 210; Shaw v. Quincy
Mining Co., 145 U. S. 444; Jellenik v. Huron Copper Co.,
177 U. S. 1.
The existence of the bank as a Spanish corporation
could only be terminated by legal dissolutio or by forfeiture by that sovereignty. Frost v. FrostburghCoal Co.,
24 How. 278.
One foreigner or citizen of the United States is a party
sufficient to sustain jurisdiction.
. This question has never come before this court for adjudication. The original construction given the statute
by the court below was right. That result is logical.
It is consistent with the ordinary and simple meaning

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Appellant.

223 U. S.

of the language used. If Congress had intended to restrict
the jurisdiction to cases where all parties, either plaintiff
or defendant, were within its provisions, it could very
easily have made that meaning plain.
For definitions of the word "either" see Webster, as
"one or another of any number". That definition is applied as its ordinary legal meaning. Lafoy v. Campbell, 42
N. J. Eq. 34; Messer v. Jones, 88 Maine, 349, 356; Ft.
Worth Co. v. Rosedale Co., 68 Texas, 169; Dew v. Barnes,
54 No. Car. 149; Graham v. Graham, 23 W. Va. 36, 43;
People v. Willis, 39 N. Y. Supp. 987, 989.
The word "parties" isused in its sense of ordinary legal
acceptation analogous to its use in such phrases as "necessary parties," "indispensable parties," "parties litigant," etc. There is nothing to show that Congress intended to use the word in any technical or restricted sense.
This court will take judicial notice of political conditions
and the general purposes of legislation and so doing it is
matter of history that the Federal court of Porto Rico
was established, aid its jurisdiction afterwards enlarged
by this amendment, for the very purpose of securing full
protection to the property rights of the American citizens
and foreigners resident in Porto Rico.
,As the object of the amendment was to enlarge the jurisdiction, it should be liberally construed for that purpose.
In Valecilla v. Hermano, 2 Porto Rico Fed. Rep. 46, the
District Court followed this court in Smith v. Lyon, 133
U. S. 316, construing the jurisdictional acts respecting
diverse citizenship, enacted for the purpose of meeting
conditions in the States the very opposite of those to meet
which the Porto Rican statute under discussion was
enacted.
But see distinction aptly expressed in Garrozi v. Dastas,
204 U. S. 73.
Therefore, whether or not the defendant bank was in

CUEBAS v. CUEBAS.
223 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

such sense an alien institution as to aid in sustaining the
jurisdiction, that jurisdiction properly and sufficiently
attached because one of the parties defendant-and the
only indispensable one-was a citizen of the United States.
The defendant bank is not an indispensable party.
Brewster v. Wakefield, 22 How. 118, 128; Nalie v. Young,
160 U. S. 642; Jerome v. McCarter, 94 U. S. 736.
Whether, therefore, the bank was a prior or subsequent
mortgagee as a matter of law, it was nothing more than a
mortgagee, and could not have been, under the above
authorities, an indispensable party.
Laches is not a defense to a suit for foreclosure
of
mortgage, that defense being confined to cases of a character where no statute of limitations is directly applicable
and the jurisdiction is not concurrent. Story's Equity
Juris. (13th ed.), ยง 1520; Rankin v. Scott, 12 Wheat. 177;
Cross v. Allen, 141 U. S. 528; Met. N. Bank v. Dispatch
Co., 149 U. S. 448; Boone v. Pierpont, 28 N. J. Eq. 7;
Diefenthaler v. New York, 111 N. Y. 331; Fullwood v.
Fullwood, 9 Ch. Div. 176; In re Baker, 20 Ch. Div. 230.
A court cannot relegate a litigant to another forum
merely because, in its opinion, such course would be more
expedient. McClellan v. Garland,217 U. S.268, 282.
Where a Federal court will be deprived of its jurisdiction based upon the character of the parties by the presence of some party not absolutely indispensable, a complainant will be allowed to dismiss as to any such party if
a proper decree can be entered in his absence which does
not affect his interest-which was exactly what complainant
asked leave to do when forced to dismiss as to the bank.
Vattier v. Hinde, 7 Pet. 252, 261;"Horn v. Lockhart, 17
Wall. 570, 579; Tug &c. Co. v. Brigel, 30 C. C. A. 415;
Boatman's Bk. v. Fitzlen, 68 C. C. A. 288, 296.
This suit was begun before the one in the insular court,
and ly the filing of a foreclosure bill the mortgaged property is theoretically placed in custodia legis. Hence the

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Banco Territorial y Agricola.

223 U. S.

court below and not the insular court "first took possession of the res." Farmers' L. & T. Co. v. Lake St. E. R.
Co., 177 U. S. 51.
A decree should have been granted against defendant
Cuebas.
Under the provisions of equity rules 18 and 19, a
complainant after an order pro confesso is entitled without
the production of supporting proof to such a decree as is
warranted by the allegations of his bill. Thompson v.
Wooster, 114 U. S. 104; Ohio Cent. R. Co. v. Central Trust
Co., 133 U. S. 83, 90.
The court's refusal of this request of complainant was
not based upon any question of proof, but upon the supposed infirmities Of the bill itself.
Upon the death of a party defendant during the progress of a cause the court may, upon request of complainant, enter its final decree nunc pro tunc as of a date prior
to such death so as to avoid the necessity of proceedings
for revivor. Mitchell v. Overman, 103 U. S. 62; New Orleans v. Gaines' Adm'r, 138 U. S. 595, 612; Campbell v.
Misier, 4 Johns. Ch. 342.
No brief filed for appellees.
Mr. F. Kingbury Curtis and Mr. Henry A. Stickney, by
leave of the court, filed a brief as amici eurice on behalf of
Banco Territorial y Agricola:
Since the bank is not a party to the appeal, the questions
raised by the first, second and third assignments of error
are not before this court for determination. Marshall
Field & Co. v. Wolf & Bro. Co., 120 Fed. Rep. 815; Wilson
v. Kiesel, 164 U. S. 248; Boyd v. Stuttgart & A. R. R., 84
Fed. Rep. 9; Ill. Trust & Say. Bank v. Kilbourne, 76 Fed.
Rep. 883; Davis v. Trust Co., 152 U. S. 590; Grand Is. &
W. C. R. Co. v. Sweeney, 95 Fed. Rep. 396; 103 Fed. Rep.
342, 348-

CUEBAS v. CUEBAS.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

By the voluntary dismissal as against the bank, the
complainant is precluded from questioning the decision of
the court below to the effect that it had no jurisdiction in
the cause while the bank was a party defendant. Hill v.
Chicago & Evanston R. R. Co., 140 U. S. 52 at p. 54.
The court below correctly decided that with the bank
as a party defendant there was no jurisdiction in this cause.
MR. JUSTICE LURTON, after stating the facts as above,
delivered the opinion of the court.
The bank is not a party to this appeal. The appellant
has elected to dismiss her bill, both as to it and the other
Porto Rican defendant, Antongiorgi, for the express
purpose of creating jurisdiction of a suit between complainant, a citizen of the Island of Porto Rico, and the
remaining original defendant, Felipe Cuebas, a citizen
of the United States. Her bill, as amended, contains
no reference to the bank, or even of its existence. It
was the bill, as thus amended, which was dismissed by the
court. We mention this because two of the errors assigned and argued in the brief of counsel for appellant
relate to the action of the court, first, in holding that
the bank was in law a citizen of Porto Rico, and, second,
in holding that, that being so, the jurisdiction of the court
to maintain the suit, with citizens of Porto Rico, on both
sides of the case, would be defeated. The action of the
court in respect to the matter first mentioned is not here
for review, and the other only in so far as it may become
necessary to deal with it for the purpose of determining
the force and effect to be given to the decree pro confesso
against Felipe Cuebas.
It was not error in the situation of this case to deny a
final decree against the succession of Felipe Cuebas upon
the foundation of the pro confesso order made on a rule
day five years theretofore. When that pro confesso was
VOL. ccxxixi-25

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

taken against Cuebas the suit was one of which the District Court had no cognizance. The sole complainant
was a citizen of Porto Rico, and Cuebas was a citizen
of the United States and therefore subject to be sued
in that court by the complainant, if the citizenship of the
other persons on the same side was such as not to defeat
jurisdiction. But that was not the case. One of them,
Francisco Antongiorgi, was alleged in the bill to be a
citizen of the Island of Porto Rico. The other defendant, the bank, was averred to be a corporation organized
under the laws of Spain and a citizen thereof. But later,
as we have already stated, the bank's plea that it was a
corporation under the laws of Porto Rico and a citizen
of Porto Rico was sustained. The case was, then, one
which, upon the face of the bill, showed that one of the
defendants had a citizenship common with that of the
complainant, and later it turned out that a second had a
like citizenship.
It is not and cannot be claimed that the complainant's
bill asserted any right, title or claim arising under the
laws or Constitution of the United States. If, therefore,
the District Court had jurisdiction, it must depend upon
diversity of citizenship alone.
It is claimed that the fact that one of the three defendants was a citizen of the United States conferred
jurisdiction, although the other two were Porto Ricans,
with a citizenship identical with that of the complainant. That this would not have been so under the Foraker
act of 1900 is conceded. That act gave to. the District
Court for Porto Rico the jurisdiction of the United States
District Courts, and added to that the jurisdiction of
cases cognizable in Circuit Courts of the United States.
The contention is that this extraordinary stretch of jurisdiction is conferred by thi third section of the act of
March 2, 1901, c. 812, 31 Stat. 953. That section reads as
follows:

CUEBAS v. CUEBAS.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"That the jurisdiction of the district court of the
United States for Porto Rico in civil cases shall, in addition to that conferred by the Act of April twelfth,
nineteen hundred, extend to and embrace controversies
where the parties, or either of them, are citizens of the
United States, or citizens or subjects of a foreign State
or States, wherein the matter in dispute exceeds, exclusive
of interest or costs, the sum or value' of one thousand
dollars."
Shortly stated, the construction placed upon this section
is, that the word "parties" is not used collectively,
meaning all of the litigants on the one side or the other,
but is intended as if the word "litigants" had been used,
and that the words "or either of them" means "any of
them," and that the jurisdiction conferred embraces all
controversies in which any litigant on either side is a citizen of the United States or a subject of a foreign country.
The construction contended for is out of accord with
that placed upon the act in Vallecillo v. Bertran, 2 P. R.
.Fed. Rep. 46, a construction constantly adhered to by
the court below since 1906. It is also a construction out
of harmony with a long line of decisions of this court
construing the jurisdictional clauses in the various statutes
dealing with the question of jurisdiction dependent upon
diversity of citizenship. The first of the decisions referred
to involved the meaning of the clause in the Judiciary
Act of 1789, conferring jurisdiction over controversies
"where an alien is a party, or the suit is between a citizen
of a State where the suit is brought and a citizen of another State." The question arose in Strawbridge v. Curtiss, 3 Cranch, 267, whether it was' essential to jurisdiction
that all of the parties on one side should have a citizenship different from that of all of the parties on the other.
In that case the complainants were citizens of Massachusetts and some of the defendants were citizens of the
same State. But one of the defendants was a citizen

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

of Vermont, and this fact was claimed to give jurisdiction.
To this, the court, by Chief Justice Marshall, said:
"The court understands these expressions to mean,
that each distinct interest should be represented by persons, all of whom are entitled to sue; or may be sued,
in the federal courts. That is, that where the interest
is joint, each of the persons concerned in that interestmust be competent to sue, or liable to be sued, in those
courts."
This construction of that clause and of like words in
later statutes, concerning jurisdiction dependent upon
diversity of citizenship has been followed in many cases,
among them being Coal Co. v. Blatchford, 11 Wall. 172,
and Smith v. Lyon, 133 U. S. 315. In the case first referred to Mr. Justice Field stated the matter in words
quite as applicable here, by saying: "If there are several
co-plaintiffs, the intention of the act is that each plaintiff
must be competent to sue, and if there are several codefendants each defendant must -be liable to be sued,
or the jurisdiction cannot be sustain.ed."
In view of these decisions we should be slow to conclude
that Congress intended any other rule as to the arrangement of the parties where diversity of citizenship is the
basis of jurisdiction than that laid down in construing
like statutes upon the same subject- The contention
that from the evident intention of Congress to enlarge
the jurisdiction of the court we should infer an intent to
confer jurisdiction to the extent claimed is without
merit. Congress, in very plain words, did extend the jurisdiction, first, by cutting down the necessary jurisdictional
amount to one thousand dollars, and second, by dispensing with diversity of state citizenship. United States
citizenship is substituted for diverse state citizenship.
We, therefore, conclude that the court had no jurisdiction of this cause when the pro confesso order was
entered against Felipe Cuebas.

CUEBAS v. CUEBAS.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The final decree following a pro confesso order is only
such a decree as would be authorized by the state of the
pleadings when the order was entered. Frow v. De La
Vega, 15 Wall. 552; Daniel's Chancery P1. & Pi., pp. 525528, 5th ed., and notes; Simmonds v. Palles, 2 Jones and La
Touche's 489; Hardwick v. Bassett, 25 Michigan, 149;
McDonald v. Mobile Life Ins. Co., 56 Alabama, 468. If
the bill was fatally defective upon its face, showing that
the court had no jurisdiction, it was error to allow a pro
confesso, and upon the court's attention being called to it,
it should have vacated the order and allowed the defaulting defendant to defend. Nelson v. Eaton, 66 Fed.
Rep. 376; Blythe v. Hinckley, 84 Fed. Rep. 228, 244;
Eldred v. Am. Palace Car Co., 103 Fed. Rep. 209.
That the bill was subsequently amended so as to confer
jurisdiction against Cuebas as sole defendant, by dismissing the bill against the other two defendants and
striking out the prayer of the bill that any and every
claim, interest, or incumbrance be forever barred and cut
off, did not justify a decree based upon the order pro
confesso made prior thereto. Upon such amendment being made, so completely changing the character of the
bill, creating a jurisdiction which had not theretofore existed, the court should have set aside the default and given
time to defend.
But the allowance of a final decree nunc pro tunc would
have been still more inadmissible. Cuebas had been
then dead for, apparently, some years. There had been
no revivor. If there had been his representatives would
doubtless have moved to vacate the pro confesso decree
upon the ground suggested, and it would have been error
to have denied that motion. The motion to enter a decree as of a day before his death would, if allowed, have
been fruitless, for it would bear a date antecedent to the
acquirement of jurisdiction, and therefore erroneous,
if of any validity.

OCTOBER TERM, 19r1.
Syllabus.

223 U. S.

But no decree nunc pro tune was admissible. Such a
decree presupposes a decree allowed, or ordered, but not
entered, through inadvertence of the court; or a decree
in a cause which is under advisement when the death of a
party occurs. Mitchell v. Overman, 103 U. S.62. There is
no claim that a final decree in pursuance of the allegations
of the bill had ever been directed and through inadvertence of either court or counsel omitted from entry.
There was, therefore, no authority for a decree nunc pro
tune upon any known ground of equity procedure. Gray
v. No
Brignardello, 1 Wall. 627.
effort to revive the cause against the succession
of Cuebas was at any time made. The complainant stood
upon her right to a final decree nunc pro tunc. When this
was denied she still made no effort to revive the cause,
though Cuebas had been dead a long time. It was not
error in such circumstances to dismiss the bill.
Decree affirmed.

CITY OF CINCINNATI v. LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE RAILROAD CO.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OHIO.
No. 385.

Submitted January 9, 1912.-Decided February 19, 1912.

After its admission into the Union, the legislative power of the State
of Ohio was not restricted in any way by the provisions of Article 2
of the Northwest Ordinance of 1787, except as limited by its own
constitution, and that State has every power of eminent domain
which pertains to the other States.
Article 2 -of the Northwest Ordinance did not forbid the appropriation by eminent domain of a contract dedicating land to the common use and benefit of a town.
The act of the Ohio legislature of 1908, ยง 3283, and the ordinance of

