METROPOLITAN CO. v. KAW VALLEY DISTRICT. 519
223 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

the statute within the Southern District of New York,
and can there be indicted and tried. The judgment must
therefore be
Reversed.

METROPOLITAN WATER COMPANY v. KAW
VALLEY DRAINAGE DISTRICT OF WYANDOTTE COUNTY, KANSAS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF KANSAS.
No. 844.

Argued January 16, 1912.-Decided February 19, 1912.

A direction in the mandate that the court below proceed in accordance
with the opinion operates to make the opinion a part of the mandate
as completely as though set out at length.
On appeal from a mere interlocutory order the Circuit Court of Appeals may direct the bill to be dismissed if it appears that the complainant is not entitled to maintain his suit.

Where the Circuit Court of Appeals has authority to make a ruling
which finally disposes of the case, and the defeated party does not
successfully prosecute either the certification of the question of
jurisdiction to this court, or writ of certiorari from this court, the
judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals remains conclusive upon
the par-ties and binding upon the Circuit Court and any other court
to which the case can be taken. Broum v. Alton Water Company,
222 U. S.325.

THE Metropolitan Water Company, a corporation of
the State of West Virginia, owned land which the Kaw

Valley Drainage District, a corporation of the State of
Kansas, desired to acquire for public purposes.
Under the-provisions of the act regulating the condemnation of land, the defendant in error presented to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Statement of the Case.

223 U. S.

Judge of the District Court of Wyandotte County, a
petition for the appointment of commissioners to value the
property of the complainant necessary to be condemned
for drainage purposes. The Water Company immediately
filed with the judge a petition to remove the case to the
United States Circuit Court. After argument this petition
was denied and commissioners were appointed. The
complainant at once filed, in the United States Circuit
Court, its bill in aid of the removal proceeding praying
that the defendant and the commissioners be enjoined
from further prosecuting the condemnation proceedings.
Among other things it alleged that the act violated the
Fourteenth Amendment because it deprived the complainant of its property before judicial ascertainment of
its value and before payment--in that when the report
of the commissioners was filed with the register of deeds,
the defendant, on paying the amount of the award, could
take possession of the property; and, though an appeal
to the District Court was permitted, the defendant could
retain possession in the meantime on giving bond to pay
the amount of the verdict.
To this bill the defendant demurred, and after a hearing
a temporary injunction was granted, restraining the defendant from proceeding further to condemn the property
of the complainant. This order was. reversed by the
Circuit Court of Appeals, which, in an elaborate opinion,
held that the statute was valid and that until an appeal was
taken from the award of the commissioners the proceeding
was in the nature of an inquest to determine damages,
and not a "suit" within the meaning of the Removal
Statute, and therefore not removable into the Federal
court thereunder (186 Fed. Rep. 315)
The mandate directed "that the order granting the
injunction be reversed and that the cause be, and the
same is hereby, remanded to the said Circuit Court with
directions for proceeding in accordance with the opinion

METROPOLITAN CO. v. KAW VALLEY DISTRICT. 521
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of this court." On the return of the mandate the Circuit
Court sustained the demurrer, and, in allowing the appeal
to this court, certified that it dismissed the bill solely on
the ground of the want of jurisdiction.
Mr. Willard P. Hall for appellant.
Mr. L. W. Keplingerand Mr. C. W. Trickett for appellees
submitted.
MR. JUSTICE

LAMAR,

after making the foregoing state-

ment, delivered the opinion of the court.
While in form this is an appeal from the decree of the
Circuit Court for the District of Kansas, it is really an
effort to review a decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals
of the Eighth Circuit. From the statement of facts it
is manifest that in dismissing the bill the Circuit Court
merely applied the ruling that the petition for the appointment of commissioners was not the institution of a
"suit" within the meaning of the Removal Act. If there
was no suit which could be removed, it was not possible
to maintain a bill in aid of removal proceedings thus
decided to be void. When, therefore, the Circuit Court
followed the opinion to its logical conclusion and dismissed the bill, it did only what it was bound to do. In
obeying these directions it committed no error, and its
decree cannot be reversed, even if it should appear that
the Court of Appeals erred in holding that the condemnation proceedings did not amount to a suit within the
meaning of the Removal Acts. The complainant had
another remedy to test the correctness of that decision.
It was open to it to ask the Circuit Court of Appeals to
certify the question of jurisdiction to this court. If that
motion had been overruled, the complainant had the
further right to apply for a writ of certiorari. If the writ

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

had been granted, the question of jurisdiction could have
been tested here. If the writ of certiorari had been then
denied, the complainant would have remained bound by
the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals as the law of
the case which could be changed neither by the Circuit
Court directly, nor indirectly by the reversal of a decree
properly entered in pursuance of the mandate of the
appellate court. Aspen Mining & S. Co. v. Billings,
150 U. S. 31, 37.
The case here is not like Globe Newspaper Co. v. Walker,
210 U. S. 356, 361, where the judgment of the Circuit
Court that the declaration was "insufficient in law"
(130 Fed. Rep. 593), was reversed by the Circuit Court of
Appeals and remanded "for further proceedings according
to law" (140 Fed. Rep. 305, 315). At the trial there was
a verdict for the plaintiff. But during that hearing the
defendant moved that the action be dismissed because
the court was without jurisdiction. It was held that from
this decision an appeal could be taken under ยง 5 of the
act of 1891.
The case is ruled by Brown v. Alion Water Co., 222 U. S.
325, although the facts there were the converse of those
shown by the present record. There the Circuit Court
dismissed the bill for want of jurisdiction. That decree
was reversed by the Court of Appeals. After the filing
of the mandate in the Circuit Court, a final decree was
entered in favor of the complainant. Thereupon the case
was brought here, the judge certifying that the defendants
had challenged the jurisdiction of the court as a Federal
court to hear and determine the cause. That appeal was
dismissed on the ground that the Circuit Court was bound
to follow the decision of the Circuit Court of Appealsit being said (p. 332) that "if error was committed, it is
not for the Circuit Court to pass upon that question.
The Circuit Court could not do otherwise than carry out
the mandate of the. Circuit Court of Appeals and could

METROPOLITAN CO. v. KAW VALLEY DISTRICT. 523
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

not refuse to do so on the ground of want of jurisdiction
in itself or in the appellate court."
It is urged that the decision in the Alton Case does not
apply, because in it there had been a final decree dismissing
the bill for want of jurisdiction, while in the present case
the ruling of the Circuit Court of Appeals was made on
a review of an interlocutory order, from which, it is said,
no writ of certiorari could issue. It is argued that the
complainant was obliged to wait until a final decree was
entered, and then, for the first time, its right of appeal
became perfect, under ยง 5 of the act of 1891 (26 Stat.
827), permitting cases to be brought to this court on
questions of jurisdiction.
We need not consider when a writ of certiorari may

issue to review decisions on interlocutory orders by the
Circuit Court of Appeals, for, in any event, its judgment
in the present case must be treated as equivalent to a
direction to enter a final decree against the complainant
for want of jurisdiction. It is true that the mandate did
not in terms make such an order, yet its direction that the
Circuit Court

'.'should

proceed in accordance with the

opinion" operated to make the opinion a part of the mandate as completely as though it had been set out at length.
Under such a mandate nothing was left for the Circuit
Court to do except to dismiss the bill. It was within the
power of the Circuit Court of Appeals to make such an
order on an appeal from an interlocutory order.

For,

while at one time there was some difference in the rulings
on that subject, it was finally settled by Smith v. Vulcan
Iron Works, 165 U. S. 518, that on appeal from a mere
interlocutory order the Circuit Court of Appeals might
direct the bill to be dismissed if it appeared that the
complainant was not entitled to maintain its suit. In re
Tampa Suburban R. Co., 168 U. S. 583; Ex parte National
Enameling Co., 201 U. S. 156, 162; Bissell Co. v. Goshen

Co., 72 Fed. Rep. 545, 556-560.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

223 U. S.

It follows, therefore, that the Circuit Court of Appeals
had authority to make a ruling which finally disposed of
the case; that the complainant then had the right to ask
it to certify the question of jurisdiction, and if that was
refused, might have applied to this court for a writ of
certiorari. Having failed successfully to prosecute these
remedies, the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals
remained conclusive upon the parties and binding upon
the Circuit Court and every other court to which the
case could by any possibility be taken. For these reasons,
the question as to whether there was a suit which was
removable cannot be considered and the appeal must be
Dismissed.

UNITED STATES v. ELLICOTT.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 85.

Argued December 7, 8, 1911.-Decided February 26, 1912.

The general rule governing appeals is applicable to appeals from the
Court of Claims.
A judgment is not generally treated as final until a motion for new
trial or rehearing, which has been entertained by the court, has been
disposed of; in such a case the time for appeal runs from the date of
such disposition. Kingman v. Western Manufacturing Co., 170 U. S.
675.
When there is an irreconcilable conflict between essential provisions
of a contract for building and the specifications, and the latter cannot
be ignored, the contract is void for uncertainty and unenforceable.
Where a bid has been accepted for government work after the advertisement necessary to give it validity, and the final contract contains specifications materially lessening the work and at variance
with the terms of the contract as advertised, the contractor cannot
recover damages because the Government abrogates the contract;

