NOBLE v. GALLARDO.
223 U. S.

65

Opinion of the Court.

purposes of taxation.

It is the property or the business

which is to be taxed, regardless of the qualities of the
owner. A discrimination founded -on the personal attributes of those engaged in the same occupation and not on
the value or the amount- of the business is arbitrary. "A
classification must always rest upon some difference
which bears a reasonable and just relation to the act in
respect to which the classification is proposed." Connoliy
v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 560.

NOBLE v. GALLARDO y SEARY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR PORTO, RICO.
No. 147. Submitted December 22, 1911.-Decided January 22, 1012.
A court of equity being a novelty in Porto Rico, it would be unjust to
apply its doctrines to the conduct of parties during thp period that
was not governed by any rules peculiar to chancery courts.
The right to foreclose liens on crops under a mortgage executed in
1865, which is contested on the ground of laches, ihould be deter-,
mined according to Spanish law as it prevailed during the time when
laches is claimed to have taken -place, and not according tq the doctrines of our equity courts.
5 Porto Rico Fed. Rep. 10, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the construction of the law of
liens on crops inPorto Rico, are stated in the Iopinion..
Mr. Nr B. K. Pettingill for appellants.
There was no brief filed for the qppellees.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a bill to foreclose a-mortgage. or lien executed in
VOL. CCXXIII-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

December, 1865, by which one Ramon Ruiz Gandia
bound himself to pay a certain sum to William Noble with
the proceeds of the first crops that might be ground from
the next January at a certain plantation. The defendants
pleaded laches apparent on the face of the bill and different statutes of limitation. The notarial document by
which the lien was created is presented only in a translation which suggests doubts whether a further lien upon
succeeding crops applied to this debt or only to another
that is referred to and that was due to another man.
There was also a petition for leave to intervene on the
part of, the representative of the other creditor, referring
to documents not set out, but this was not acted upon
except as affected by the disposition of the principal case.
The court below expressed doubts whether any of the instruments bound the land, but held that in any event the
plaintiffs were barred by laches and dismissed the bill.
As was observed by the court below, a court of equity is
a novelty in Porto Rico. But, this being so, it would be
unjust to apply its doctrines to the conduct of the parties
during the many years that were not governed by any
rule peculiar to chancery courts. The plaintiffs are not
relying upon a merely equitable right; they are asserting
a lien which they say the Spanish law gave them until it
was barred by the statute of limitations. Whether the
Spanish law had any doctrines of laches that in any aspect
would be applicable to this case was not argued and we
have not inquired. But it is to be observed that no change
of position on the faith of, or seemingly influenced by,
the quiescence of the plaintiffs and their predecessors is
disclosed. ' It would be open to argument whether Iaches
was made out, even under our law, sufficient to defeat
the remedy usually given by equity to eniforce a purely
legal right; in other words whether mere lapse of time
short of the statute of limitations, with nothing more,
should defeat' the foreclosure of a lien supposed still to

UNITED STATES v. WONG YOU.
223 U. S.

Syllabus.

exist at law. But we express no opinion on that point.
because the matter must be decided by Spanish law,
which prevailed during the 'time When the laches is supposed to have been shown.
The case is a hard one, no doubt, if the plaintiffs ultimately should prevail on the strength of the old law of
prescription for mortgages and subsequent recognitions.
It should be scrutinized with care, not only with reference
to the property covered by the lien, but the nature of the
recognitions during the time when the bond could not
be denied, and the law. As -wehave intimated, -the record
leaves some doubt as to material facts, no argument was
presented to us on behalf of the appellees, and upon the
whole we think it will be-more conducive to justice if the
case be remitted to the District Court for further consid-.
eration. To ,that end the decree will be reversed.
Decree reversed without prejudice.

UNITED STATES v. WONG YOU.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 597.

Argued January 12, 1912.-Decided January 22,.1912.

The Alien Immigration Act of February 20, 1907, c. 1134, ยง 36, 34
Stat. 898, 908, applies to Chinese laborers illegally coming to this
country'notwithstanding the special acts relating to the exclusion

of Chinese.
To allow a subsequent general act its literal effect does not .repeal,
alter, or amend an earlier special law when the later law expressly
provides that it shall not have that effect.
The omission from a later act of a clause contained in an earlier act
on the same subject, excluding certain classes from its operation,

