JACOB v. ROBERTS.
223 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

refused to deal with it and insisted upon the responsibility
of the railroad company. It is now in a different situation. This record does not show that the railroad company ever disputed its responsibility. Indeed there is
evidence which- makes the other way.
Judgment affirmed.

JACOB v. ROBERTS.
ERROR

TO

THE

SUPREME

COURT

OF

THE

STATE

OF

CALIFORNIA.

No. 169.

Argued January 25, 1912.-Decided February 19, 1912.

While an essential element of due pr6cess of law is opportunity to be
heard, a necessary condition of which is notice, Simon v. Craft, 182
U. S. 427, personal notice is not always necessary. Ballard v.
Hunier, 204 U. S. 241. In this case, held, that the proceedings for service by publication show
sufficient inquiry was made to ascertain the whereabouts of the
persons to be served and who were served by publication under
provisions of ยง 412 of the Code of Civil Procedure of California, and
that due process of law was not denied by service in that manner.
154 California, 307, affirmed.
THE

facts, which involve the question of whether due

process of law was afforded by substituted service of

process under the statutes of California, are stated in the
opinion.
Mr. Sam Ferry Smith, for plaintiffs in error:

The judgment was rendered in a proceeding, and constituted a proceeding, wherein the only service of process
made, or attempted to be made, was substituted or con-

structive.

Such service did not give reasonable and ade-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Counsel for Defendant in Error.

223 U. S.

quate opportunity of being heard therein, prior to the
rendition of such judgment. It therefore did not constitute due process of law, and such proceedings were in violation of the constitutional right guaranteed by Fourteenth
Amendment. "Due process of law," as, the meaning of
these words has been developed in American decisions,
implies the administration of law according to established rules, not violative of the fundamental principles
of private right, by a competent tribunal having jurisdiction of the case and proceeding upon notice and hearing.
Arndt v. Griggs, 134 U. S. 321; Belcher v. Chambers, 53
California, 635; Braly v. Seaman, 30 California, 611; Burton v. Platter, 53 Fed. Rep. 903; Cooper v. Newell, 173
U. S.,555; De La Montanya v. De La Montanya, 112 California, 109; Galpin v. Page, 18 Wall. 350, 368; Hagar v.
ReclamationPDistrict, 111 U. S. 708; Happy v. Mosher, 48
N. Y. 317; Hahn. v. Kelly, 34 California, 407; Hart v.
Sansom, 110 U. S. 451; Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S. 389;
Hooker v. Los Angeles, 188 U. S. 314, 318; Mallett v. State,
181 U. S. 589; -Marx v. Ebner, 180 U. S. 314; Neff v.
Pennoyer, 17 Fed. Rep. 1279; Pennoyer v. Neff, 95 U. S.
737; Roberts v. Jacobs, 154 California, 307; Roller v. Holly,
176 U. S. 402; Ricketson v. Richardson, 26 California, 149;
Rue v. Quinn, 137 California, 651; Scott v. McNeal, 154
U. S. 34; Shepherd v. Ware, 48 N. W. Rep. 774; State v.
Guilbert, 47 N. E. Rep. 557; Simon v. Craft, 182 U. S. 436;
Thompson v. Circuit Judge, 54 Michigan, 237; Wilson v.
Standefer, 184 U. S. 399, 415; Johnson v. Hunter, 147 Fed.
Rep. 133; Howard v. De Cordovia, 177 U. S. 609; Flint v.
Coffin, 176 Fed. Rep. 877; Wheeler v. Cobb, 75 N. Car. 22;
Romig v. Gillett, 187 U. S. 111, 117; Stillman v. Rosenberg, 78 N. W. Rep. 913; Grigsby v. Wopschall, 127 N..W.
Rep. (S. Dak.) 605; Cochran v. Markley, 87 N. W. Rep. 2.
Mr. William J. Mossholder, with whom Mr. Samuel
Herrick was on the brief, for defendant in error.

JACOB v. ROBERTS.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the

court.
The question involved is whether a judgment quieting
title to a piece of land in California against plaintiffs in
error upon substituted process of the publication 'of the
summons under the statutes of that State constitutes due
process of law under the Fourteenth Amendment to the
Constitution of the United States.
The judgment was rendered in 1897, and eight years
afterwards the entry of judgment was set aside by the
trial court upon petition of plaintiffs in error on the ground
that the facts set out in the affidavit for the order of publication did not show the due diligence required by section
412 of the Code of Civil Procedure of the State. The
order was reversed by the Supreme Court of the State.
154 California 307.
The action against plaintiffs in eiror was brought by
defendant in error in the Superior Court in the County of
San Diego, State of California, by verified complaint on
March 25, 1897, upon which summons was issued and returned not served because defendants in the action (plaintiffs in error) could not be found. An amended complaint
was filed April 3, 1897. It described the land as lots in
the city of San Diego, of which it alleged that the plaintiffs, defendants in error here, were then and had been
for a long time in possession, claiming title in fee. It also
contained the usual allegations that the defendants, and
each of them, claimed some estate or interest in the land,
and that it was entirely without any right whatever. It
was prayed that the defendants be required to set forth
the nature of their or his claim, that it be determined by
the decree of the court, and that they and each of them be
forever enjoined from asserting any claim in and to the
lands adverse to the plaintiffs. General relief was prayed.
Summons was issued and the sheriff's certificate
of re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

turn recited that "after diligent search and inquiry," he
was unable to find the "defendants or either or any of
them in this San Diego County."
An affidavit for publication of summons was then presented to the court and filed. It recited the proceedings,
including the issue of the summons and its return by the
sheriff, as we have stated, and further set forth the following, among other matters:
"That the cause of action is fully set forth in his verified
complaint on file herein; that said defendants, or either
or any of them, after due diligence, cannot be found
within this State, and this affiant, in support thereof,
states the following facts and circumstances:
"That affiant, for the purpose of finding said defendants and ascertain their place of residence, has made due
and diligent inquiry of the old residents of the City of
San Diego, the former neighbors of said defendants,
and is informed by D. Choate, who has lived in the City
of San Diego over twenty-five years, that he thinks the
defendants are not within the State of California, and
he does not know of their residence and has not heard
anything of them, or either of them or of their residence
or post-office address, for more than twenty years, and
this affiant is informed by George W. Hazzard, who has
lived in San Diego for over twenty-five years, that he
has n6 knowledge as to the whereabouts of the said defendants, or either of them. Plaintiff also made inquiry
of Ed. Dougherty, who is an old resident of San Diego,
and said' Ed. Dougherty informed plaintiff that he did
not know the address or residence or where the defendants,
or either of them, could be found, and did not believe
that they were in the State."
The affidavit also stated that inquiry was made of
certain county and city officers and that they all"stated to affiant that they did not know the residence
of the defendants, or either of them, their post-office

JACOB v. ROBERTS.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

address or where they could be found; and none of, the
above-named parties had heard of the post-office address
or residence of the defendants, or either of them, since
they have resided in the said city of San Diego.
"The affiant has made other diligent inquiry to find said
defendants, or either or any of them, and has not been able
to find them or any of them within-. The affiant has
no knowledge of the residence or post-office address of the
defendants or either of them or where the defendants,
or either of them, could be found. This affiant, therefore, says that personal service of said summons cannot
be made on the defendants-Thomas E. Jacob, Thomas
Hobson, Edward Hobson, Jacob Hobson and Frank Hobson, or either or any of them."
An order of publication was duly made, and the summons duly published in accordance therewith. Judgment
by default was subsequently duly entered.
The assignments of error all express the contention
that the trial court was without jurisdiction to render
the judgment against plaintiffs in error, and that hence
their property has been taken without due process of law.
Undoubtedly, as. contended by plaintiffs in error, the
essential element of due process of law is an opportunity to
be heard, and a necessary condition of such opportunity
is notice. Simon v. Craft, 182 U. S. 427. But personal
notice is not in all cases necessary. There may be, and
necessarily must be, some form of constructive service.
Ballard v. Hunter, 204 U. S. 241. Upon this, however,
we do not enlarge, as we do not understand plaintiffs
in error contest it. They recognize that substituted service of judicial process may be authorized, but they contend that it can only be authorized when "it is impossible
or impracticable to obtain actual service, and when so
authorized the substituted service provided for in the
statute must be of such character that it will be reasonably
probable that the party. whose property is placed in jeop-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

ardy will be apprised of the pendency of the action and
will be afforded a reasonable opportunity to appear therein
and make his defenses." (The italics are ours.) We do
not understand that plaintiffs in error attack the kind
or time of publication as not giving a reasonable probability of notice or opportunity to be heard, but attack the
showing upon which it was made; in other words, that the
showing was not sufficient to authorize the publication
of notice, the showing not being legally Sufficient to
justify a resort to that form of notice. It is true plaintiffs
in error gay that "the designation of the newspaper and
the length of time of publication must necessarily depend
upon the residence of the defendant, or at least his probable whereabouts, -unless it is disclosed by the affidavit
that plaintiff has no -knowledge on the subject, and that
he has exercised due diligence to inform himself." These
quotations from the argument of plaintiffs in error we
make as exhibiting the elements of their contentions.
We make no reference to the statute of the State, as
that as written is not. attacked except, it may be, as it is
applied by the Supreme Court of the State in this and
prior decisions. We say "prior decisions" because the
court puts its ruling explicitly on one of its prior decisions
and rejects the contention that it. had overruled other
decisions.
We now turn to what the papers in the case exhibit and
what they explicitly or impliedly establish. The property
involved was lots in the city of San Diego, of which the
plaintiffs in the action, defendants .inerror here, were in
possession at the time of commencing the action, and had
been for a long time. The fact has some force. -San
Diego was of size and importance enough to make it
worth while for those having interest in property to assert
it. Plaintiffs in error, however, permitted defendants
in error to be in possession of property which they now
say was and is theirs. Why, they do not explain, nor

JACOB v. ROBERTS.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

where they were. They rest upon the face of the papers,
and they having that right we will consider the sufficiency
of the papers under the statute.
We have set out the affidavit. It shows inquiry of the
whereabouts of plaintiffs in error of their former neighbors
and other residents of San. Diego. One of them replied
that he had not heard of them, of their residence or postoffice address, for over twenty-five years. Another also
had not heard from them and did not believe they were
in the State. Inquiry was also made of nineteen county
officers and three state officers, sheriffs, county clerks;
tax collectors, county and state; assessors, county and
state, and of the postmasters of the State. Neighbors,
residents and officers who, in the intercourse and business
of life would almost necessarily come in contact with
plaintiffs in error or hear from them, had no knowledge
of them. It may, however, be said, and indeed is said,
that other parts of the State were not searched, and that
this was necessary- as the process of the court could run
to every county in the State. The requirement is extreme
and We are cited to no cases in which it is decided to be
necessary. The affidavit shows besides that defendant in
error made diligent inquiry to find plaintiffs in error and
had no knowledge of their residence or post-office address
or of either' of them or where they or either of them could
be found.
We think plaintiffs in error were afforded due process.
Judgment affirmed.

