OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Counsel for Parties.

223 U. S.

CHEROKEE NATION AND UNITED STATES v.
WHITMIRE, TRUSTEE FOR FREEDMEN OF
THE CHEROKEE NATION.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 735.

Argued January 9, 10, 1912.-Decided January 29, 1912.

As after a decree of the Court of Claims in favor of the petitioner an
act of Congress was passed, and the court made another decree
granting the same relief, the second decree was a decision upon the
effect of the subsequent legislation, and an appeal lies therefrom if
taken within the time prescribed by law.
Held, that under the circumstances of this case, and the proceedings
taken thereon, appellants' appeal was taken in time.
Lowe v. Fisher, ante, p. 95, followed as to the construction of the
Cherokee Treaty of August 11, 1866, and as to the freedmen of the
Cherokees and their descendants entitled to be enrolled as citizens
and the power of Congress thereover, and that the Secretary of the
Interior had the power, after notice and opportunity to be heard,
to strike from the rolls names which had been improperly placed
thereon through mistake or fraud.
44 Ct. Cl. 453, reversed.

facts, which involve the construction of the various
treaties, acts of Congress and decisions of the Court of
Claims in regard to the rights of Cherokee freedmen and
their descendants to share in the distribution of tribal
property, are stated in the opinion.
THE

Mr. William W. Hastings for appellant, the Cherokee
Nation.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General John Q. Thompson and
Mr. George M. Anderson, filed a brief, for appellant, the
United States.
Mr. Samuel A. Putman and Mr. Charles Poe, with whom
Mr. Robert H. Kern was on the brief, for appellee.

CHEROKEE NATION v. WHITMIRE.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Charles M. Rice, Mr. George S. Ramsey and Mr. C.
C. Calhoun, Mr. Frank J. Boudinot, Mr. John J. Hemphill and Mr. Daniel B. Henderson, filed briefs as amici
curie.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the

court.
This appeal is prosecuted to review a supplemental
decree of the Court of Claims enjoining and directing the
Secretary of the Interior to enroll upon the final roll of the
citizens of the Cherokee Nation for allotment of lands the
names of certain persons and their descendants claiming
rights as Cherokee freedmen, whose names were found upon
the roll called the Kern-Clifton roll, which the decree ad-,
judged was directed to be made by a former decree of the
court. The names of those persons, who are appellees
in this case, after investigation by the Secretary of the
Interior, were found by him not entitled to be enrolled,
and not entitled to participate in the distribution of tribal
property.
The decision in United States ex rel. Lowe v. Fisher, ante,
p. 95, has simplified the decision in this case. Indeed,
the ultimate question in both is the same, the power of
Congress over the allotment of Indian lands and the manner of ascertaining what persons shall be entitled to them.
There were, however, contentions made in that case which
are not made here. There are propositions of law conceded
in this case which were contested in that. Therefore a
brief summary of the elements necessary to a decision is
appropriate.
Preceding the merits, however, motion to dismiss the
appeal must be disposed of. The motion is made on the
following grounds: (1) The decree of February 3, 1896,
was a final decree from which no appeal was prosecuted to
this court; (2) that the decree of February 20, 1911, hereafter referred to, was merely in the nature of an execution

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

of that of February 3,,1896, and defined no new rights, but
-nforced merely rights established and consented to; and
(3) because, although the decree of February 20, 1911, was
regularly entered on that day, the appeal now pending was
not allowed or prosecuted until the -seventeenth of June,
1911, more than ninety days after the entry of the decree.
The first and second grounds are untenable. The decree
under review has broader application than that of February 3, 1896. It determined rights to allotments which had
not then been provided for, and; assuming that it declared
the principle, by which such rights dould be determined,
there was, as. we shall presently see, intervening legislation by Congress. This legislation gave rise to serious controversy. It confirmed, it was contended by petitioners
(appellees here), and is yet contended by them, as we shall
presently see, the decree of the court both as to the principle of the decree and also as to the means of identification of the individuals who would be entitled to rights
under'the principle. By the defendants (appellants here)
it was contended that the legislation superseded the decree and made new'proVision for the identification of
persons. The court decided in favor of the petitioners,
and we think the decision is more than the execution
of the decree of February 3, 1896. It is a decision upon the
effect of subsequent legislation by Congress enacted in
the exercise of its power over Indian, affairs, a power which
is not. questioned.
The third ground urged for the dismissal of the appeal is
also without merit. The contention is that the decree of the
court became final the instant it was entered, February 20,
1911, and .that an appeal was not takenfrom it until
June 17, 1911, which was not within the time allowed by
ยง 1069 of the Revised Statutes. There were, however,
intervening proceedings. The record shows that "on
March 30, 1911, the defendants [appellants] filed an application for appeal. . On May 15, 1911, the defendants

CHEROKEE NATION v. WHITMIRE.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

filed a motion to withdraw the application for appeal
filed March 30, 1911, which was allowed by the court
May,15, 1911." On May 15, 19 11, the defendants filed
a motion for new trial, which motion was overruled June 5,
1911, "with privilege to the defendants to renew their
application for appeal heretofore filed." The record
further shows that the defendants, "from the decree rendered on the twentieth day of February, 1911, in favor of
make application for, and give notice
claimants, ..
of, an appeal to the Supreme Court of'the United States."
The application was allowed as prayed.
This court has decided that if a motion for new trial
or petition for rehearing is made in season and entertained
by the court, the time for taking an appeal or writ of error
does not begin to run until the motion or petition is disposed of. Kingman v. Western Manufacturing Co., 170
U. S. 675. It is, however, urged that the court lost jurisdiction of the case by the application -for appeal filed
March 30, 1911. United States v. Adams, 6 Wall. 101, is:
cited to support this contention. In 'that case the paper
filed was as follows: -"The United States, by E. P. Norton,
its solicitor, makes, application to the Honorable Court
of Claims for an appeal of the case of Theodore Adams v.
The United States to the Supreme Court of the United_
States." This application was filed within the ninety
days allowed by the statute. The order allowing it, however, was not made until after the expiration of the ninety
days. It was contended that both application and allowance should have been made within that time, but this
court held otherwise, saying (p. 109) "that the filing of this
paper was taking the appeal, and that the delay in the
subsequent proceeding to render it effectual does not
touch its validity."
It was not, h6wever; decided that the Couri of Claims
lost Control of the case. It was only decided that the party
had secured a right under the statute. The rules, of the

-OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

Court of Claims, made under regulations prescribed by this
court, provided for further action to .perfect the 'right acquired by the party which was made necessary by certain
statutes under which only questiofts of law could be brought
here for review. And the action was more than formal. It
consisted in the finding of the ultimate facts in the nature
of a special verdict and the questions of law therefrom to
be certified to this court.
The practice in the Court of Claims is adverse to appellees' contention. The court followed the practice in
entering the decree of February 3, 1896, the decree upon
which appellees based all of their rights. It was substituted for a decree passed May 8, 1895. On the twentieth
of July, following entry of the latter decree, the defendants filed a motion for rehearing and an application for
appeal from the decree. A few days afterward the claimants also filed an application for an appeal. Later the
defendants filed a motion for new trial. On January 30,
1896, the appl'cations for appeal were withdrawn by leave
of the court, and, on February 3, the decree of May 6,
1895, was vacated and the decree of the former date was
entered.
It will be observed, therefore, that if the contention of
appellees is correct that the Court of Claims lost jurisdiction of the decree under review by the application of appellants for an appeal March 30, 1911, the court lost jurisdiction of the case by the applications for -appeal from the
decree of May 8, 1895, and therefore had no jurisdiction
to enter the decree of February 3, 1896, which is the foundation of the rights of appellees. Counsel would hardly
like us to push their contention that far, and that far it
night have to be pushed if it were tenable. The motion
to dismiss is denied.
The Court of Claims obtained its jurisdiction of the
questions involved by an act, of Congress approved October 1, 1890, 26 Stat. 636, c. 1249, entitled "An Act to

CHEROKEE NATION v. WHITMIRE.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

refer to the Court of Claims certain claims of the Shawnee
and Delaware Indians and the freedmen of the Cherokee
Nation, and for other purposes." The rights referred to
the Court of Claims for adjudication were those "in law
or in equity

.

.

. of the Cherokee freedmen"

who

were "settled and located in the Cherokee Nation under
the provisions and stipulations of article nine" of the
treaty of 1866 "in respect to the subject matter" in the
act provided for. The subject-matter was described to
be "to recover from the Cherokee Nation all moneys
due either in law or equity and unpaid to the
freedriien, which the Cherokee Nation" had "before paid
out, or" might thereafter "pay per capita, in the Cherokee
Nation, and which was or may be" refused or neglected
"to be paid to the said . . . freedmen by the Cherokee Nation, out of any money or funds" which had been,
or might be, "paid into the treasury of," or in any way
had come or might come "into the possession of the Cherokee Nation, Indian Territory, derived from the sale, leasing, or rent for grazing purposes on Cherokee lands west
of ninety-six degrees west longitude," and which had
been or might be, "appropriated and directed to be paid
out per capita by the acts passed by the Cherokee council,
and for all moneys, lands and rights which" should "appear to be due to the said

.

.

freedmen under the

provisions of the aforesaid articles of the treaty and articles of agreement." 26 Stat. 636.
Article IX of the treaty of August 11, 1866, 14 Stat.
799, 801, the meaning of which was to be determined,
provided as follows: "They [Cherokee Nation] further
agree that all freedmen who have been liberated by the
voluntary act of their former owners or by law, as well as
all free colored persons who were in the country at the
commencement, of the rebellion, and are now residents
therein, or who may return within six months, and their
descendants, shall have all the rights of native Cherokees."
voL. ccxxII-8

,114.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

Under the jurisdictional act, and in accordance with its
provisions, suit was brought by the freedmen by their
trustee, Moses Whitmire, against the Cherokee Nation and
the United States to determine the rights of the freedmen under the treaty, which resulted in a decree of the
court passed May 8, 1895. The course of the litigation
will be found in 30 Ct. Cls. Reps. 138, 180, respectively.
The court decided that under the'Cherokee constitution
of 1866 the freedmen became citizens of the nation equally
with the Cherokees and equally interested in the common
property and equally :entitled to share in its proceeds,
but also decided that the freedmen to whom the treaty
referred were those who had returned to the nation within
six months after the promulgation of the treaty, and their
descendants, and that the freedmen and the descendants
of freedmen who did not return within six monthswere
excluded from the benefits of the treaty. United States
ex rel. Lowe v. Fisher, ante, p. 95.
The court decreed that the Cherokee Nation and the
United States be prohibited from making any discrimination between such freedmen citizens and their descendants and native Cherokees in the'distribution of a fund of
$8,595,736 paid by the United States to the Cherokee
Nation for that portion of its territory known as the
-"'Cherokee Outlet."
The court conceived it necessary to ascertain the individual Indians who were entitled under its decree to share
in the fund, and adjudged that the roll called the "Wallace
Roll," which showed 3,524 perSons, should be approved
by the court.
Appeals were prayed by claimant and defendant, but
Were withdrawn afterward by stipulation, and a decree
was entered February 3, 1896, as of May.8, 1895., The,
decree adjudged the rights of freedmen- to be as we have
hereinabove set Out.
The decree also authorized' the Secretary' of the Interior

CHEROKEE NATION v. WHITMIRE.
223 U.S.

115

Opinion of the Court.

to appoint commissioners to make up a roll of the freedmen entitled to share in the fund to be distributed, which
that officer did. They completed the roll which was thereafter known, and to which we have referred, as the KernClifton roll. It was approved by the Secretary on. the
eighteenth of January, 1897, and in the succeeding month
.the moneys available for distribution were paid to the
persons whose names were on the roll.
The legislation in regard to the allotment of lands and
.the making of rolls of persons entitled to allotments is
detailed in United States ex 'rel. Lowe v. Fisher, and need
not be repeated except in a very brief way. By virtue
of that legislation the Dawes Commission, which had been
created before the decree of February 3, 1896, proceeded
to make up rolls, which were finally approved by the Secretary on March 4, 1907, from -which were excluded alarge
number of freedmen whose names were on the KernClifton roll, with the consequence that such persons 'so
excluded will receive no allotments of lands or share in the
moneys which stand toithe credit of the Cherokee Nation
in the Treasury'of the United States.
On May 6, 1908; Jacob B. Wilson, by permission of
the Court of Claims, and having been substituted trustee
of the freedmen, filed a supplemental petition in the
court in -behalf of such excluded persons, which recited
the decrees of the court and acts Of Congress subsequent
to them,: asserted a right under the decrees and acts of
Congress to be upon the'rolls, to beallotted lands and to
share in the distribution of funds, and prayed that the
action of the Dawes Commission and of the Secretary of
the Interior be declared unlawful, and that the Cherokee
Nation and the'UnitedStates be enjoined from discriminating between such freedmen and other citizens of the
Cherokee Nation in the allotment of lands and the distribution of property and assets of the nation, and:that
it and the United States be further enjoined from further

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

disturbing such freedmen in the possession and occupation of their homes and improvements, and to reinstate
such of them as have been ousted from such possession.
. The court took jurisdiction of the petition, as we have
seen, and decreed as it prayed. 44 Ct. Cls. 453. The
court, in an elaborate and ably reasoned opinion, decided that its decree had larger scope than a description
of the' class of freedmen and the declaration of a principle,
and that it undertook to identify "the individuals who
were entitled to share in everything that was to be allotted
or distributed." To this, the court said, the "defendants
made no objections and acquiesced in the terms of the
decree for the distribution of that part of the property
then ready to, be distributed." The court further said
that "there was nothing in the terms of the decree or in
the conduct of the parties affected by it to raise the inference that its language did not apply to all future distributions of the property, which the plaintiffs in that
suit. were entitled to have and enjoy whenever such
property was ready. for distribution."
The court, therefore, considered that the Kern-Clifton
roll was made in compliance with the decree, and that the
provisions of the Curtis Act, June 28, 1898, 30 Stat. 495,
c. 517, requiring a roll to be made in "strict compliance
-with the decree of the Court ot Claims rendered the third
of February, eighteen hundred and ninety-six," necessarily confirmed the Kern-Clifton roll, and that the Dawes
Commission, in disrdgarding it, disobeyed the command of
the statute. "If," said the court, "the payment by the
Secretary of the Interior was a 'compliance' with the
provision of the decree for the payment of money, the
refusal of the Dawes Commission to allow those same persons to, participate in the common property, as further
providedin the decree, is not a 'strict' compliance, nor, for
that matter, a compliance of any kind."
The case is simplified by the concession of appellees that

CHEROKEE NATION v. WHITMIRE.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the Congress had power to alter the decree and to adopt
other means or ways for the disposition of the property
than there provided. Indeed, the decree of the court
recognize's this power and the case is brought to an interpretation of the acts of Congress subsequent to the decree. As we have already said, we have reviewed those acts
in United States ex rel. Lowe v. Fisher, and, after a further
consideration of them invoked in the case, at bar and supported by the very able opinion of the Court of Claims,
we adhere to the views there expressed.: Congress accepted the decree as a correct interlpretation of Art. IX
of. the treaty as to the rights of freedmen. It did not accept the Kern-Clifton roll -as an authentic identification
of the individul freedmen. It had -been challenged.
It had been made up with haste and under circumstances
which caused question of its correctness. It had not
received judicial approval. From the first to the last it
was the act of administrative officers. Had it been reported to the court and its integrity established by the
judgment of the court, Congress might, indeed, have
hesitated to ignore it. As an act of.merely administrative
officers it had no such sanction. It must be borne in mind
that important rights were involved and no good reason
could be urged against, or serious consequences apprehended from another investigation. Those who were
entitled to be enrolled could again establish their right.
Those who were. not so entitled and who had got on the
rolls either by mistake or-fraud had no legal ground of complaint. However, we are not required to consider the
reasons which induced Congress- to direct that 'aroll be
made by the Dawes Commission. Congress had tlh
power, and, as we have decided, exercised it.
Decree reversed and case remanded with directions'to dismiss the supplemental petition.

