UNITED STATES v. MILLER.
223 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

UNITED STATES v. MILLER.
SAME v. SAME.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.

Nos. 607, 608. Argued January 9,1912.-Decided February 26, 1912.
Posting of rates as required by ยง 6 of the Interstate Commerce Act is
not a condition of making the tariff legally operative or keeping it in
operation.
The non-posting of rates by an interstate carrier will not relieve a
shipper from the penalty for violating the Interstate Commerce Act
by accepting rebates.
Publication and posting, in the sense in which those terms are used
in the Interstate Commerce Act, are essentially different.
One provision of an act will not be so construed as to defeat the object
of the act; and the non-posting, or removal of, schedules of rates,
will not disestablish a published rate.
Congress will not be presumed to have intended that the mere nonposting of schedules of rates in the depots of carriers, or the removal
thereof after posting, should disestablish or suspend a rate, which the
act provides shall only be changed in the mode prescribed. Kansas
City Southern Ry. Co. v. Albers Commission Co., ante, p. 573.

THE facts, which involve the construction of certain provisions of the Interstate Commerce Law as amended by
the Hepburn Act of 1906 to regulate commerce, are stated

in the opinion.
The Solicitor General for the United States:
Where the carriers have done everything prescribed by
the statute with regard to a through joint rate for transportation over a through route under a common arrangement, except posting the schedules in the depots, a shipper

who knows what the established rate is, is guilty of a vio-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for the United States.

223 U. S.

lation of ยง 1 of the Elkins Act as amended by the Hepburn
Act if he knowingly solicits, accepts, and receives a concession from that rate.
Proof of a violation of the act by a shipper would be
rendered practically impossible, and certainly senselessly
difficult, laborious, and expensive, if in every prosecution
primary evidence of posting the schedules and keeping
them posted in every depot were required. The shipper
indeed might secure immunity by himself removing the
schedule from some depot before applying for and getting his concession, as the established rate Would then no
longer be in existence.
Every,-purpose of the law would be defeated if rates existed by so precarious a tenure.
The question has in effect been determined in Texas and
Pacific Ry. Co. v. Cisco Oil M41l, 204 Uj S. 449. Although
that case concerns the construction of the section in a civil
cause, that affords no reason for saying that the authoritative construction of the statute is not to be applied in a
crLminal case. United States v. Keitel, 211:U. S. 370, 392.
As early as 1892, in United States v. Howell, 56 Fed. Rep.
21, 29, it was held as against shippers that the posting of
rates in the depots was not essential to their establishment.
In no Federal case, other than the one at bar, has the
posting in depots been held essential to the establishment
of the rate.
The amendments made to the law since the Cisco Case
was decided were not designed to weaken it, but to guard
it more carefully than before against rebates, concessions,
and discriminations.
In this case there is charged in the indictment a rate
established by the carrier, knowledge by the defendants'
of what the .rate was, and the solicitation and acceptance
of a lesser rate.
The requirements of the statute have been fulfilled, and
the indictment should be sustained.

UNITED STATES v. MILLER.
223 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Mr. Alexander A. Lawrence, with whom Mr. M. Hampton Todd and Mr. William W. Osborne were on the brief,
for defendant in error:
An indictment of a shipper for accepting a concession
from a freight rate is properly quashed when there is no
averment therein that the rate in question had been posted
in the freight station where the freight was received or
elsewhere.
As a condition of criminality, the statute prescribes
that the shipper must violate a tariff rate published as
prescribed by the act. The act prescribes as a part of the
publication that the tariffs should be posted in two conspicuous places where freight is received. It is admitted
that the rates alleged to. be violated were not so posted.
Where the statute prescribes a method of publication the
Government may not in order to secure a conviction allege and show that it had been published only in part.
Texas Railway Co. v. Cisco Oil Mill, 204 U. S. 449; Armour
Packing Co. v. United States, 209 U. S. 72.
Neither the Cisco Case, supra, nor the Abilene Cotton Co.
Case, 204 U. S. 437, construed the penal provisions. While
neither the filing nor publication of the rate is a condition
precedent to its establishment, validity, or effectiveness
from a civil, standpoint, both filing and publishing are,
under the Hepburn Act, conditions precedent to the penal
operation of the statute with respect to the shipper.
The distinction between an established and a published
rate and the consequences of a departure therefrom by a
shipper are clear. See Hardaway v. State, 1 G . App. 150.
The omission of an essential allegation is fatal to the
indictment. United States v. Cook, 17 Wall. 174; United
States v. Wood, 145 Fed. Rep. 409; Camden Iron Works v.
United States, 158 Fed. Rep. 564.
Counsel for the Government cited United States v.
Howell, 56 Fed. Rep. 21; Chicago R. R. v. United States,
162 Fed. Rep. 838; The Cisco Case, 204 U. S. 449, 452, aid

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

United States v. N. Y. Cent. & Hudson R. R. R., 212 U. S.
509, 515, and 157 Fed. Rep. 293, but neither of these cases
involves the construction of the act in reference to posting.
It is established by them that a carrier which participates
in a rate filed or published by another carrier is by virtue
of the act made liable to the penal provisions of the statute for any concession granted.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of

the court.
These were indictments, under that provision of the act
to regulate commerce, June 29, 1906, 34 Stat. 584,, c. 3591,
which makes it a misdemeanor for a shipper knowingly to
solicit, accept or receive, from any common carrier subject
to the act, a rebate or concession whereby property is
transported in .interstate commerce "at a less rate than
that named in the tariffs published and filed by such
carrier, as is required by said'act;" and the question presented for decision is, whether compliance with the requirement in respect of the posting of tariffs in the depots,
stations or offices of the carrier is essential to bring a tariff
within the descriptive terms of that provision. We say
this is the question for decision, because it appears from
the record that the Circuit Court, in sustaining demurrers
to the indictments, placed its decision solely upon the
ground that they did "not allege that the. schedules and
tariffs alleged to have been violated were posted in the
manner required by law," and because upon these direct
writs of error we must accept that court's interpretation
of the indictments and confine our review to the question
of the construction of the statute involved in its decision.
United States v. Keitel, 211 U. S. 370, 398; United States v.
Kissell, 218 U. S. 601, 606.
That the act imposes upon common carriers subject to
- its provisions the duty of establishing in a prescribed mode
the rates, whether individual or joint, to be charged for

UNITED STATES v. MILLER.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the transportation in interstate commerce of property
over their lines, and that the rates so established are
obligatory alike upon carrier and shipper, and must be
strictly observed by both until changed in the mode prescribed, are propositions which are not only plainly stated
in the act, but settled by repeated decisions of this court.
In speaking of the rates which must be thus observed, the
act variously designates them as the rates "named in the
tariffs published and filed," the "charges which have been
filed and published,." the "charges which are specified in
the tariff filed and in effect at the time," the "regular
charges
. .
as fixed by the schedules of rates provided for in this act," and the "regular rates then established and in force," but in none of these expressions is
there any suggestion that posting is a necessary step in
establishing rates, that is, in making them legally operative. Of course, these expressions, although differing in
words, are identical in meaning, and to ascertain that
meaning recourse must be had to ยง 6 of the act, which, at
the time of. the offenses charged in these indictments
(1907-8), declared:
"SEc. 6. That every common carrier subject to
the provisions of this Act shall file with the Commission created
by this Act and print and keep open to public inspection
schedules showing all the rates, fares, and charges for
transportation between different points on its own route
and between points on its own route and points on the
route of any other carrier by railroad, by pipe line, or by
water when a through route and joint rate have been
established [meaning adopted].
. .
Such schedules
shall be plainly printed in large type, ,and copies for the
use of the public shall be kept posted in two public and
conspicuous places in every depot, station, or office of
such carrier where passengers or freight, respectively, are
received for transportation, in such form that they shall
be accessible to the public and can be conveniently in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

spected. . . . Provided, That the Commission may,
in its discretion and for good cause shown, . . . modify the requirements of this section in respect to publishing, posting, and filing of tariffs, either in particular instances or by a general' order applicable to special or
peculiar, circumstances. or conditions. . . . No carrier, unless otherwise provided by this Act, shall engage
or
participate in the transportation of passengers or
property,
as defined in this Act, unless the rates,
fares,
and charges upon which the same are transported by said
carrier have been filed and published in accordance with
"
.
the provisions of this Act.
It is the contention of the defendants that a tariff is not
,published in the sense in which the act uses that term unless printed copies are "kept posted in two public and conspicuous places in every depot," etc., and it was this contention that prevailed in the Circuit Court. But, in our
opinion, it is not sound. Publication and posting in the
sense of the act are essentially distinct. This is the import
of the provision that the requirements relating to "publishing, posting and filing" may be modified by the commission in special circumstances, for if publishing included
posting, mention of the latter was unnecessary. And from
all the provisions on the subject it is evident that the publication intended consists in promulgating and distributing the tariff in printed form preparatory to putting it into
effect, while the posting is a continuing act enjoined upon
the carrier, while the tariff remains operative, as a means
of affording special facilities to the public for ascertaining
the rates in force thereunder. In other wards, publication
is a step in establishing rates, while posting is a duty arising but of the fact that they have been established. Obviously, therefore, posting is not a condition to making a
tariff legally operative. .Neither is it a condition to the
continued existence of a tariff once legally established.
If it were, the inadvertent or mischievous destruction or

PHILADELPHIA CO. v. STIMSON.

,605

Syllabus.

.223 U. S.

removal of one of the posted copies from a depot would
disestablish or suspend the rates, a result which evidently
is not intended by the act, for it provides that rates once
lawfully. established shall not be changed otherwise than
in the mode prescribed.
Like views of the posting clause were expressed in Texas
and Pacific Railway Co. v. Cisco Oil Mill, 204 U. S. 449,
and upon further consideration we perceive no reason for
departing from them. See also Kansas City Southern Railway Co. v. Albers Commission Co., ante, p. 573.
Whether, by failure to comply with that clause, a carrier
becomes subject to a penalty is apart from the present
case and need not now be considered.
The judgments are reversed, and the cases are remanded
for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.

PHILADELPHIA COMPANY v. STIMSON, SECRETARY OF WAR.'
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA.
No. 70.

Argued November 16, 1911.-Decided March 4, 1912.

Exemption of the United States from suit does not protect its officers
from personal liability to persons whose rights of property they

have wrongfully invaded.
In case of injury threatened by illegal action, an officer of the United

States cannot claim immunity from injunctive process.
Where complainant does not ask the court to interfere with an officer
I This case was originally commenced against William H. Taft as
Secretary of War; by ,Iosequent orders of the court the successive
incumbents of that office, Luke E. Wright, Jacob M. Dickinson and
Henry L. Stimson, were substituted as defendants and appellees.

