QUONG WING v. KIRKENDALL.
223 U. S.

59

Syllabus.

Was a-passenger, an employ6 or a stranger. But it never
has been supposed that - courts are at liberty to decline
cognizance of cases of a particular class merely because tae
.rules of law to be applied in their adjudication are unlike
those applied in other cases.
We conclude that rights, arising under the act in question may be enforced, as of right, in the courts of the
States when their jurisdiction" as prescribed by local laws,
is adequate to the occasion.
In No. 289 several rulings in the progress of the cause,
not covered by what already has been said, are called-in
question, but it Suffices to say of them that they have been
carefully considered, and that we find no reversible error
in them.
In Nos. 170, 289 and 290 the judgments are affirmed, and
in No. 120 the judgment is reversed and the cause is
remanded for further:proceedings not inconsistent with
this opinion.

QUONG WING v. KIRKENDALL, TREASURER OF
LEWIS AND CLARK COUNTY, MONTANA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MONTANA.

No. 1i9. Argued December 18, 1911.-Decided January 22, 1912.
-A State does not deny equal protection,.of the laws by 'adjusting its
revenue laws to favor certain industries.
A State, like the United States, although with more restrictions and
to a less degree, may carry out a policy even if the courts may disagree as to the wisdom thereof.
In carrying out its policy, a State may make discriminations so long
as they are not unreasonable or purely arbitrary
On the record as presented in this case, and without prejudice to de-

termining the question, if raised in a different way, the statute of

60

OCTOBER TERM, 1911..
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

223 U. S.

Montana imposing a license fee on hand laundries does not appear to
be an unconstitutional denial of equal protection of the laws because
it does not apply -to steam laundries and because it exempts from
its operation laundries not employing more than two women.
The Fourteenth Amencbment does not interfere with state legislation
by creating a fidtitious equality where there is a real difference.
Quare: Whether this statute is aimed directly at the Chinese, in which
case it might be a discrimination denying equal protection.
When counsel do not bring the facts before it, the court is not, bound
to make inquiries.
Courts sometimes enforce laws which would .be declared invalid if
attacked in a different manner.
39 Montana, 64, affirmed.

',

THE facts,* which involve the constitutionality of a
laundry license act of Montana, are stated in the opinion.
Mr.. Charles E. Pew, with whom Mr. M. S. Gunn and
Mr. Ira T. Wight were on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
The sole question presented is whether ยง2776 of the
Revised -Codes of Montana provides a proper classification for taxing purposes.
Section 2776 is Arevenue measure simply, and is not an
exercise of the'police power. This is alleged in the complaint, and was conceded by the Montana Supreme Court.
There is therefore no question of the reasonableness of a
police regulation, but the only question to be decided is
whether the taxation of hand laundries operated by males
and the exemption of other laundries is a just, reasonable
and proper classification for taxation purposes.
Classification for any purpose must be based upon some
real and reasonable difference in the property or business
placedi in one class from the property or business which is
exempted from burdens imposed upon such class; otherwipe such classification is repugnant to the equal protection vlause of the Federal Constitution. Yick Wo v.
HoPkins, 118 U. S. 356; Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe Co.,
184 U. S. 540; Gulf Ry. Co. -v Ellis, 1651U. S. 155.

QUONG WING v. KIRKENDALL.
223 U. S.

Counsel for Defendant in Error.

If Such 'arbitrary selection as that attempted by this
statute can be justified, there is no limit to which such
selection might go. The same principle might be extended
to the point where the entire burden of taxation might be
placed upon one portion of a class. A license fee for police
regulation is limited to the necessities of the regulation; but
if a revenue measure of this kind can be justified as to a tax
of $10.00, it can be justified to the point of confiscation.
Federal District Judge Knowles in the District of
Montana held void the statute of Montana which at that
time required hand laundries to pay $25.00 per quarter
while steam laundries were required to pay only $10.00
per quarter. In re Yot Sang, 75 Fed. Rep. 983.
If it is the business which is being taxed, the instrumentalities used in that business make no difference,
except that the tax might be graded according to the
amount of business done, while if the tax is upon the
instrumentalities, that would be another matter. In this
case it is the laundry business which is the basis of the tax.
Nor is there any reason for exempting women in the
manner in which it is attempted under this statute. A
woman in business is, from a taxation standpoint, subject
to the same burdens as a man in the same business.
-Muller v. Oregon, 208 U. S. 412, is not an authority for
the decision of the Montana court; the law under consideration here being a revefiue measure, not a police
measure. The statute involved in the Muller Case limited
the hours of labor of females in laundries and similar
places, and was purely a health regulation; and this court
upheld it upon the ground that it was a reasonable exercise of the power of the State to protect the health of its
citizens.
Mr. W. H. Poorman, with whom Mr. Albert J. Galen,
Attorney General of Montana, was on the brief, for defendant in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action to recover ten dollars paid under
duress and protest for a license to do hand laundry work.
The plaintiff got judgment in the court of first instance
but this judgment was reversed by the Supreme Court of
the State. 39 Montana, 64. The law under which the
fee was exacted imposed the payment upon all persons
engaged in laundry business other than the steam laundry
business, with a proviso that it should not apply to women
so engaged where not more *than two women were employed. 1 Rev. Codes, ยง 2776. The only question is
whether this is an unconstitutional discrimination depriVing the plaintiff of the equal protection of the laws.
U. S. Const., Am. XIV.
The case was argued upon the discrimination between
the instrumentalities employed in the same business and
that between men and women.. One like the former was
held bad-in In re Yot Sang, 75 Fed. Rep. 983, and hile
the latter was spoken of by the Supreme Court of the
State as an exemption of one or two women, it is to be
observed that in 1900 the census showed more women
than men engaged in hand laundry work in that State.
Nevertheless we agree with the Supreme Court of the
State so far as these grounds are concerned. A State does
not deny ,the equal protection of the laws merely by adjusting its revenue laws and taxing system in such a w4y
as to favor certain industries or forms of industry. Like
.the United States, although with more restriction and in
less degree, a State may carry out a policy, even a policy
with which we might disagree. McLean v. Arkansasi 211
U.: S. -539, 547. Armour Packing Co. v. Lacy, 200 U. S.
226,' 235. Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S.
.540,. ยง62. It may make discriminations,, if founded on
distinctions that we cannot pronounce unreasonable and
purely arbitrary, as was illustrated in American Sugar Re-

QUONG WING v. KIRKENDALL.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court,

fining Co. v. Louisiana, 179 U. S. 89, 92, 95; Williams v.
Fears, 179 U. S. 270, 276; W. W. Cargill Co. v. Minnesota,
180 U. S. 452, 469. It may favor or discourage the liquor
traffic, or trusts. The criminal law is a whole body of
policy on which States may and do differ. If the State
sees fit to encourage steam laundries and discourage hand
laundries that is its own affair. And if again it finds: a
ground of distinction in sex, that is not without precedent.
It has been recognized with regard to hours of work.
Muller v. Oregon, 208 U. S. 412., It is recognized in the
respective rights of husband and wife in land during life,
in the. inheritafice after the death of the spouse. Often
it is expressed in the time fixed for coming of age. If
Montana deems it advisable to put a fighter burden upon
women than upon men with regard to an employment
that our people commonly regard as more appropriate for
the former, the Fourteenth Amendment does not interfere by creating a fictitious equality where there is a real
difference. The particular points at which that difference
shall be emphasized by legislation are largely in the power
of the State.
Another difficulty suggested by the statute is that it is
impossible not to ask whether it is not aimed at the
Chinese; which would be a discrimination that the Constitution does not allow. Yick" Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S.
356. It is a matter of common observation that hand
-laundry work is a widespread occupation of Chinamen in
this country while on the other hand it is so rare to see
men of our race engaged in it that many of us would be
unable to say that they .ever had observed a case. But
this ground of objection was not- urged and: rather was
disclaimed when it was mentioned from the Bench at the
argument. It may or may not be that if the facts were
called to our attention in a proper way the objection
would prove to be real. But even if when called to our
attention the facts should be taken notice of judicially,

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
LAMAR, J., dissenting.

223 U. S.

whether because they are only the premise for a general
proposition of law, Prentis v. Atlantic Coast Line Co., 211
U. S. 210, 227,. South Ottawa v. Perkins, 94 U. S. 260,
Telfair v. Stead, 2 Cranch, 407, 418, or for any other reason, still there are many things that courts would notice
if brought before them that beforehand they do-not know.
It rests with counsel to take the proper steps, and if they
deliberately omit them, We do not feel called upon to institute inquiries on our own account. Laws frequently are
enforced which the court recognizes as possibly or probably
invalid if attacked by a different interest or in a different
way. Therefore without prejudice to the question that we
have suggested, when it shall be raised, we must conclude
that so far as the present case is concerned the judgment

must be affirmed.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUsTIcE HUGHES concurs in the result.
MR. JUSTICE LAMAR

dissenting.

I dissent from the conclusions reached in the first
branch of the opinion, because, in my judgment, the
statute which is not a police but a revenue measure makes
an arbitrary discrimination. It taxes some and exempts
others engaged in identically the same business. It does
not graduate the license so that those doing a large volume
of business pay more than those doing less. On the contrary, it exempts the large business and taxes the small.
It exempts the business that is so large as to require the
use of steam, and taxes that which is so small that it can
be run by hand. Among these small operators there is a
further discrimination, based on sex. It would be just as
competent to tax the property of men and exempt that of
women. The individual characteristics of the owner do
not furnish a basis on which to make a classification for

NOBLE v. GALLARDO.
223 U. S.

65

Opinion of the Court.

purposes of taxation.

It is the property or the business

which is to be taxed, regardless of the qualities of the
owner. A discrimination founded -on the personal attributes of those engaged in the same occupation and not on
the value or the amount- of the business is arbitrary. "A
classification must always rest upon some difference
which bears a reasonable and just relation to the act in
respect to which the classification is proposed." Connoliy
v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 560.

NOBLE v. GALLARDO y SEARY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR PORTO, RICO.
No. 147. Submitted December 22, 1911.-Decided January 22, 1012.
A court of equity being a novelty in Porto Rico, it would be unjust to
apply its doctrines to the conduct of parties during thp period that
was not governed by any rules peculiar to chancery courts.
The right to foreclose liens on crops under a mortgage executed in
1865, which is contested on the ground of laches, ihould be deter-,
mined according to Spanish law as it prevailed during the time when
laches is claimed to have taken -place, and not according tq the doctrines of our equity courts.
5 Porto Rico Fed. Rep. 10, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the construction of the law of
liens on crops inPorto Rico, are stated in the Iopinion..
Mr. Nr B. K. Pettingill for appellants.
There was no brief filed for the qppellees.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a bill to foreclose a-mortgage. or lien executed in
VOL. CCXXIII-5

