UNITED STATES v. CITROEN.
223 U. S.

Syllabus.

It follows then, first, that the legislative power of the
State of Ohio was not restricted in any way by the provi-

sions of the second article of the ordinance of 1787 after
its admission to the Union, and it has every power of eminent domain which pertains to other States, unless limited

by its own constitution; and, second, that if the law of
eminent domain as it existed at the time of the dedication
is to be read into the contract, that that law, properly interpreted, was not such as to forbid an appropriation such

as is here involved.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Ohio must,

therefore, be
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. CITROEN.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 30.

Argued November 1, 1911.-Decided February 19, 1912.

In order to produce uniformity in the imposition of duties, the dutiable
classification of articles imported must be ascertained by an examinatiQn of the imported article itself in the condition in which it is
imported.
A prescribed rate of duty cannot be escaped by disguise or artifice; but
if the article imported is not the article described as dutiable at a
specified rate, it does not become dutiable under the description be.
cause it has been manufactured for the purpose of being imported at
a lower rate.
The court is not concerned with reasons for a distinction in the tariff
act,-it is enough that Congress made it.
Pearls, unset and unstrung, are dutiable under par. 436 of the tariff
act of 1897 at ten per centum and not under par. 434 at sixty per
centum, because capable of, or intended for, being strung as a necklace.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for the United States.

223 U. S.

The fact that a pearl has been drilled-as is the case with more than
seventy-five per cent. of all. large pearls when they come from the
wholesale dealers-does not take it out of par. 436 and make it
dutiable under par. 434 at sixty per centum.
Congress will not be presumed in framing a tariff act to have contemplated a radical'departure from the policy of former tariff legislation
when it will also be necessary to presume that Congress in doing so
also disregarded facts of the trade.
After reviewing, provisions of former tariff acts and prior decisions in
regard to pearls and the duties to be levied upon them, held, that
pearls, not strung or set, although suitable for.being strung as a necklace are not to be classed by similitude under par. 434 and subjected
to the higher duty of sixty per centum.
Where a tariff act, as that of 1897, provides for pearls set or strung,
and for pearls not strung or set, it will not be presumed that Congrass intended to leave an unenumerated class of pearls to be classed
by similitude.
166 Fed. Rep. 693, 92 C. C. A. 365, affirmed.

facts, which involve the construction of paragraphs 434 and 436 of the tariff act of 1897 as applied to
pearls, aie stated in the opinion.
THE

Mr. Assistant to the Attorney General Fowler for the
United States:
The Circuit Court of Appeals improperly adopted as
the facts the findings of the Board of General Appraisers.
Apgar v. United States, 78 Fed. Rep. 332, 334.
The new eVidence introduced in the Circuit Court was,
in substance, that the pearls were assembled into a complete necklace and were a necklace, and were so worn by
the purchaser, before importation.
Had this evidence been before the board, the board
would, according to its own declaration, have overruled
the protest and affirmed the collector's classification.
The decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals conflicts
with the well-recognized rule laid down -in other cases
for the assessment of duties upon pearls. Tiffany v.
United States, 103 Fed. Rep. 619.

UNITED STATES v. CITROEN.
223 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

A perforated pearl is not in its natural state, although
the cost of perforation is but trifling. The amount of
expense cannot be considered in determining whether the
pearl has been changed from its natural state. Seebergcr
v. Farwell, 139 U. S. 608; Tiffany v. United States, 105
Fed. Rep. 766; Tiffany v. United States, 112 Fed. Rep.
672; Neresheimer v. United States, 131 Fed. Rep. 977.
In the various cases relating to the assessment of duties
upon drilled pearls, three theories have been advanced:
First. The one adopted by Judge Coxe, in the second
Tiffany Case, 105 Fed. Rep. 766, holding them assessable
as strung pearls under the similitude clause; second, the
rule adopted by the Circuit Court of Appeals in the same
Tiffany Case and approved in the Neresheimer Case, supra,
and applied in the present case, that such pearls must be
classified under the similitude clause as belonging to either
par. 434 or 436; and third, the method suggested, but
not followed, by the Circuit Court of Appeals in the
present case, that pars. 434 and 436 embrace all kinds of
pearlS, and the similitude clause has no application.
That this last method is not the correct one, is clearly
shown by Judge Lacombe in the first Tiffany Case. See
provisions relating to pearls in the previous tariff acts.
Paragraphs 452 and 453 of the act of October 1, 1890 (26
Stat. 600); pars. 337 and 338 of the act of August 28,
1894, c. 349, 28 Stat. 534.
The finding of fact by Judge Lacombe is not only abundantly sustained by the evidence, but when the evidence is
taken as a whole no other inference can be drawn therefrom.
Years were spent in the collection of these pearls. They
were assorted and selected as to size, quality, etc., and
kept intact for years, and became well known in the trade
as a collection for a valuable necklace.
When an article is separated into its component parts,
which parts are imported separately, they are assessable

. 410

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Respondent.

223 U. S.

for duty as if the article were imported as a whole. United

States v. Schoverling, 146 U. S. 76; United States v. Irwin,
78 Fed. Rep. 799; Isaacs v. Jonas, 148 U. S. 648; Read v.
Certain Merchandise, 103,Fed. Rep. 197; McMillan Co. v.
United States, 116 Fed. Rep. 1018.
The right of an importer to so manufacture his goods
as to reduce the rate of duty extends only to its manufacture, and does not permit him to change its character
after manufacture in order to avoid a higher rate of duty.
Merritt v. Welsh, 104 U. S. 694, 700; Seeberger v. Farwell,
139 U. S. 608; Vantine & Cd. v. United States, 155 Fed.
Rep. 149.
The court will consider the intent of an importer to
defraud the revenue, and also whether or not a certain
element or ingredient of the imported article is a trifling
or substantial portion thereof, unless such consideration
is prohibited by the language of the statute. Falk v.
Robertson, 137 U. S. 225; Seeberger v. Schlesinger, 152 U. S.
581, 587.
The pearls in question were jewelry or parts thereof,
finished or unfinished, and therefore were properly classified under pax. 434.
Mr. W. Wickham Smith, with whom Mr. John K.
Maxwell was on the brief, for respondent:
The Circuit Court of Appeals did not pursue any improper method with regard to the findings of the Board
of General Appraisers.
The findings of the board should always be adopted by
tribunals of review except where they are without evidence
to support them, where they are against the weight of
evidence, or where they have been overborne by new testimony taken in the Circuit Court. Gabriel & Schall v.
United States, 123 Fed. Rep. 296; White v. United States 72
Fed. Rep. 251; In re Van Blankensteyn, 56 Fed. Rep. 474;
In re Kursheedt Mfg. Co., 49 Fed Rep. 633; In re White,

UNITED STATES v. CITROEN.
223 U. S.

Argument for Respondent.

53 Fed. Rep. 787; Marine v. Lyon, 65 Fed. Rep. 992;
In re Bing, 66 Fed. Rep. 727; Mexican Onyx Co. v. United
States, 66 Fed. Rep. 732; Belcher v. United States, 91 Fed.
Rep. 975; Myers v. United States, 110 Fed Rep. 940;
Leerburger v. United States, 113 Fed. Rep. 976; United
States v. Jackson, 113 Fed. Rep. 1000; United States v.
Riebe, 1 Customs App. 19.
As to the new evidence taken in the Circuit Court, one
of the witnesses did not contradict the testimony taken
before the board, and if he had, one witness's testimony
could not be allowed to upset a finding of the board made
on the testimony of a number of witnesses. Page v. United
States, 113 Fed. Rep. 1006; Bromley v. United States, 154
Fed. Rep. 399.
There is nothing in the evidence of the purchaser to
justify the assertion made by the Government that the
pearls "were a necklace" and "were delivered to her as
a necklace" at Newport.
If the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals conflicts
with other decisions in pearl cases, that constitutes no
reason for its reversal.
As to the so-called finding of facts by Judge Lacombe,
there was ample testimony to support it.
The Government's argument as to an article separated
into its component parts (which parts are imported
separately), as well as the authorities cited thereunder,
are wholly irrelevant to the point involved in this controversy. United States v. Irwin, 78 Fed. Rep. 799;
Isaacs v. Jonas, 148 U. S. 648, do not apply to this
case.
The contention of the Government, that an importer
has no right to change the character of goods after manufacture in order to avoid a higher rate of duty, is not
only irrelevant, but unsound.
Every importer has a right to have his goods assessed
for duty at the appropriate rate as and what they are

OCTOER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Respondent.

223 U. S.

when they come into the port and before the customs
officers. Seeberger v. Farwell, 139 U. S. 608; Worthington v.
Robbins, 139 U. S. 337; Merritt v. Welsh, 104 U. S. 694;
United States v. Wotton, 53 Fed. Rep. 344; Johnson v.
United States, 1.23 Fed. Rep. 997; Godwin v. United States,
66 Fed. Rep. 739; Paturel v. Robertson, 41 Fed. Rep. 329;
Hunter v. United States, 143 Fed. Rep. 914; Stone &
Downer v. United States, 147 Fed. Rep. 603, 605; Mautner
v. United States, 84 Fed. Rep. 155; In re Blumenthal, 51
Fed. Rep. 76; United States v. Levitt.,26 Fed. Cas. 919;
In re Schoverling, 45 Fed. Rep. 349; aff'd in United States v.
Schoverling, 146 U. S. 76.
The pearls could certainly not be held dutiable as
jewelry or parts thereof and assessed accordingly under
par. 434 at 60 per cent.
The Government's claim is an unjust one.
In all cases of doubt as to the meaning of a revenue
statute, the decision should be in favor of the importer
who has to pay the tax, and there never was a case more
strongly calling for the application of that rule than the
case at bar. United States v. Wigglesworth, 2 Story, 369;
Rice v. United States, 53 Fed. Rep. 910; Hartranft v. Wiegman, 121 U. S. 609; Mathewson v. United States, 71 Fed.
Rep. 394; United States v. Adams, 54 Fed. Rep. 147;
Adams v. Bancroft, 3 Sumner, 384; McCoy v. Hedden, 38
Fed Rep. 89; American Net & Twine Co. v. Worthington,
141'-U. S. 468; Hempstead v. Thomas, 122 Fed. Rep. 538;
Hayes v. United States, 150 Fed. Rep. 63, 66; United States
v. Merck, 91 Fed. Rep. 639; FranklinSugar Refining Co. v.
United States, 142 Fed. Rep. 376, 382; Powers v. Barney,
5 Blatchf. 202; S. C., 19 Fed. Cas. 1234; United States v.
Dauis, 54 Fed. Rep. 147; United States v. Michelin Tire Co.,
1 Customs App. 518; United States v. Hatters' Fur Exchange; 1 Customs App. 198; United States v. Matagrin, 1
Customs App. 309, 312; Woolworth v. United States, 1 Customs App. 120.

UNITED STATES v. CITROEN.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of the
court.
Bernard Citroen, on June 11, 1906, imported into the
United States thirtyseven drilled pearls-unset and
unstrung-divided into five lots, separately inclosed. The
collector classified them by similitude "as pearls set or
strung, or jewelry," dutiable at sixty per cent. ad valorem
under par. 434 of the tariff act of 1897. 30 Stat. 151,
p. 192. The Board of General Appraisers sustained the
importer's protest, holding the pearls to be dutiable by
similitude at ten per cent. under par. 436. The Circuit
Court, on additional testimony, reversed this ruling and
affirmed that of the collector, and this decision was, in
turn, reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals, which
held that the board was right. 92 C. C. A. 365; 166 Fed.
Rep. 693. The case comes here on certiorari.
The paragraphs of the act of 1897 (30 Stat., p. 192),.
which are in question, read as follows:
" 434. Articles commonly known as jewelry, -and parts
thereof, finished or unfinished, not specially, provided for
in this Act, including precious stones set, pearls set or
strung, and cameos in frames, sixty per centum ad valorem.
"436. Pearls in their natural state, not strung or set,
ten per centum ad valorem."
The pearls had been purchased by the importer's brother
and had been offered for sale, collectively and in lots, in
Paris, London and Berlin, and to show that the collection was a desirable' one for a necklace they had been
strung from time to time on a. silk cord. It appeared that
Mrs. Leeds, the present owner, had seen the pearls in Paris,
both loose and on.a string. As she testified they were
brought to her hotel "both on the string and off the string;
it was strung up at odd times; then it was taken apart
and other pearls were put in and others taken out, so it

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

was strung several times." She was permitted to wear
the pearls as a'necklace; and finally bought them, it being
agreed that they should be delivered to her in this country.
They were so delivered in the condition in which they
were imported, without string or clasp, and to these the
purchaser subsequently added six pearls and formed the
necklace she desired.
With respect to the character Of the imported collection
the Board of General Appraisers found: "Pearls of greater
dimensions- than the average are comparatively rare;
hence it frequently requires several years' search in order
to secure a sufficient number to form a necklace, all
accurately matched in the essential features of size, color
and luster. Such a collection thus assembled would, no
doubt, command a higher price than the aggregate value
of the separate pearls. On the other hand, a sufficient
number of pearls, although of large size, required to form
a necklace, matched as to size, but not otherwise, except
a mere regard for comparative color, could be assembled
within a short time and at a price based upon the cost of
each separate pearl. In order to dispose of thirty or
more pearls to one purchaser, such a collection would
usually be sold at a less price than the aggregate would
amount to were each pearl sold separately. The evidence
shows and we find that the pearls in question belong to
the latter and not to the first class." T. D. 28,246; G. A.
6617. And as to these facts there is nothing in the evidence introduced in the Circuit Court which requires a
different conclusion.
The questions presented are (1) whether the pearls
fall directly within the description of the paragraph (434)
relating to jewelry, and (2), if not, whether they are
brought within this paragraph, through similitude, by
virtue of § 7., 30 Stat. 205.
First. The rule is well established that "in order to
produce uniformity in the imposition of duties, the duti-

UNITED STATES v. CITROEN.
223 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

able classification of articles imported must be ascertained
by an examination of the imported article itself, in the
condition in which it is imported." Worthington v. Robbins, 139 U. S. 337, 341; Dwight v. Merritt, 140 U. S. 213,
219; United States v. Schoverling, 146 U. S.76, 82; United
States v. Irwin, C. C. A., 2d Cir. 78 Fed. Rep. 799, 802.
This, of course, does not mean that a prescribed rate of
duty can be escaped by resort to disguise or artifice.
When it is found that the article imported is in fact the
article described in a particular paragraph of the tariff
act, an effort to make it appear otherwise is simply a
fraud on the revenue and cannot be permitted to succeed.
Falk v. Robertson, 137 U. S. 225, 232. But when the
article imported is not the article described as dutiable
at a specified rate, it does not become dutiable under the
description because it has been manufactured or prepared
for the express purpose of being imported at a lower rate.
Merritt v. Welsh, 104 U. S. 694, 704; Seeberger v. Farwell,
139 U. S.608, 611. "So long as no deception is practiced,
so long as the goods are truly invoiced and freely and
honestly exposed to the officers of customs for their examination, no fraud is committed, no penalty is incurred."
Merritt v. Welsh, supra. The inquiry must be-Does the
article, as imported, fall within the description sought to
be applied?
In the paragraph as to jewelry (434) Congress expressly
defined what pearls were to be included. The paragraph
reads, "including . . . pearls set or strung." It
does not say pearls that can be strung, or that are assorted
or matched so as to be suitable for a necklace, but pearls
"set or strung." We are not concerned with the reason
for the distinction; it is enough that Congress made it.
Had these pearls never been strung before importation,
no one would be heard to argue that they fell directly
within the description of paragraph 434 because they could
be strung, or had been collected for the purpose of string-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion ofhe Court.

223 U. S.

ing or of being worn as a necklace. Loose pearls-however valuable the collection-however carefully matched
or desirable for a necklace-are not "pearls set or strung.'
Nor can it be said that pearls, imported unstrung;
are brought within the description of paragraph 434 because, at some time, or from time to time, previous to
importation, they have been put on a string temporarily
for purposes of display. The paragraph does. not use a
generic definition which could be deemed to define pearls
previously strung though imported unstrung, but refers-in terms which shelter no ainbiguity-to their condition when imported. It is not a case of parts of a
described article, separately packed to avoid the specified
duty on the article as a whole. United States v. Schoverling, supra; Isaacs v. Jonas, 148 U. S. 648; United States
v. Irwin, supra. For here, the imported pearls, whether
regarded separately or taken as a collection, are not within
the description. It is idle to comment on the relative
value of a string to hold the pearls, for this is immaterial.
The statute has furnished the test and we are not at liberty
to make another.
Second. Although the pearls do not fall directly within
paragraph 434, the question remains whether they are
brought within it by similitude. The similitude clause
(§ 7) applies to articles not enumerated in the tariff act,
and hence it governs the rate in this case only if it be
found that the pearls are excluded from the -description
of paragraph 436, which enumerates "pearls in. their
natural, state, not strung or set."" May it fairly be said
that in these two classes of pearls-those "set or strung",
and those "in their natural state, not strung or set' '-Congress intended to describe, all pearls, or is there a sort of
pearls, for example, those driiled and matched so as tobe suitable for a necklace, which must be said to have
been left unenumerated?
. In the customs act of 18W. (3 Stat. 310) a duty of seven

UNITED STATES v. CITROEN.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and a half per cent. ad valorem was laid on "precious
stones and pearls of all kinds, set or not set." The act of
1842 (5 Stat. 548, 555) made the duty seven per cent.
"on gems, pearls, or precious stones." That of 1846
(9 Stat. 42, 45, 48) fixed the rate at thirty per cent. for
"diamonds, gems, pearls, rubies, and other precious
stones, and imitations of precious stones, when set in
gold, silver, or other metal," and at ten per cent. on
"diamonds, gems, pearls, rubies, and other precious
stones, and imitations thereof, when not set." In 1857
(11 Stat. 192) and in 1861 (12 Stat. 178, 190), the same
distinction was maintained.
In the Revised Statutes (§ 2504, p. 484) we find the
following: "Precious stones and jewelry.-Diamonds, cameos, mosaics, gems, pearls, rubies, and other precious
stones, when not set ten per centum ad valorem; when set
in gold, silver, or other metal, or on imitations thereof,
and all other jewelry: twenty-five per centum ad valorem."
In 1883 (22 Stat. 488, 513, 514) the rate of duty was made
twenty-five per cent for "jewelry of all kinds" and ten
per cent. for "precious stones of all kinds." In 1890
(26 Stat. 600, 601) the jewelry paragraph (452), which
fixed the rate at fifty per cent. embraced all articles, not
elsewhere specially provided for, which were composed
of precious metals or imitations thereof (including those
set with pearls) and known commercially as jewelry; and
the following paragraph (453) read: "Pearls, ten per
centum ad valorem." By the act of 1894 (28 Stat. 509,
534) the jewelry rate was reduced to thirty-five per cent.;
the paragraph as to pearls was changed so that instead
of describing pearls generally it read: "Pearls, including
pearls strung but not set, ten per centum ad valorem,"
and pearls set were placed with precious stones set, with
a duty of thirty per cent.
It will thus be observed that when pearls were enumerated in the tariff acts prior to that of 1897, the enumeration
VOL. ccxxiii-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

was evidently intended to be comprehensive and covered
all pearls not included in the provision for jewelry. The
act of 1897 placed "pearls set or strung" in the jewelry
paragraph, and then provided the rate of ten per cent.
for "pearls in their natural state, not strung or set."
To complete the review of the statutes, it may be added
that in 1909, when new tariff legislation was under consideration, it was proposed, in the light of the decisions
to which we shall presently refer, that there should be
inserted in the act a clause providing that "collections
of pearls selected, matched, or graded. shall be dutiable
as jewelry;" and the House bill so provided. H. R. Bill
No. 1438, par. 447, 61st Cong., 1st sess., Cong. Rec.,
Vol. 44, p. 1510. Congress not only refused to make this
insertion, but instead, retaining the existing rate on
unstrung and unset pearls, omitted the phrase "in their
natural state," and further clarified the provision by
inserting the words "drilled or undrilled," so that the
clause in the act of 1909 reads: "Pearls and parts thereof,
drilled or undrilled, but not set or strung, ten per centum
ad valorem." (36 Stat. 68.)
The difficulties that beset the construction of paragraph 436 of the act of 1897 sufficiently appear in the cases
which have been brought before the courts. In 1898,
Tiffany & Company imported pierced pearls described in
the invoices as "pearls drilled, but not strung." They
were assessed for duty at twenty per cent. as unenumerated articles, manufactured in whole or part, under § 6.
The Circuit Court (103 Fed. Rep. 619) held that the phrase
"pearls in their natural state" was a new phrase wholly
unknown to merchants; that the words, having no commercial meaning, must be interpreted in their plain, natural sense; and that a drilled pearl was not a pearl in
the natural state. It was pointed out that the selection
made by Congress in the use of these words, so interpreted, seemed an unfortunate. one as the effect was to

UNITED STATES v. CITROEN.

223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

attach a higher duty to the lower article. The conclusion was that Congress had not, as presumably it
intended to do, covered all kinds of pearls in the various
jewelry paragraphs, but had "left a kind of pearl to be
covered by one of the catch-all paragraphs," and this the
court could not correct. The assessment was sustained.
On a later importation of drilled pearls this decision
was followed by the collector, and the ruling was affirmed
by the Circuit Court. T. D. 22,140, G. A. 4692; Tiffany
v.. United States (1901), 105 Fed. Rep. 766. But, while
overruling the importer's protest, the court stated that
the similitude clause should operate before the general
clause providing for unenumerated manufactured articles and that the imported pearls bore a closer resemblance
to strung pearls than to pearls in their natural state.
This was in effect to hold that drilled pearls were dutiable
under the jewelry paragraph at sixty per cent.
This decision was reversed by the Circuit Court of
Appeals. Tiffany v. United States (1901), 50 C. C. A.
(2d Cir.) 419; 112 Fed. Rep. 672. It was ruled that the
pearls were not covered by either of the paragraphs 434
and 436; that the similitude clause should be applied;
and that the drilled pearls more closely resembled pearls
in their natural state than strung pearls and hence that
the pearls in question were dutiable at ten per cent. (This
was followed in T. D. 23,751, G. A. 5149.) The court,
however, indicated that there would be an exception to
this rule when the pearls had been so selected as to produce a collection "worth more than the aggregate values
of the individual pearls composing it."
Meanwhile, Neresheimer & Company had imported
two lots of drilled pearls, in March and November, 1901,
respectively, one being forty-five and the other thirtynine in number, the total value exceeding $123,000. At
first they were assessed at the rate of twenty per cent.;
but after the decision of the Court of Appeals in the Tiffany

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

Case, supra, both entries were reliquidated and the articles were assessed by the collector as "pearls- strung" at
sixty per cent. This was sustained by the Board of General Appraisers (1902), .T. D. 23,748, G. A. 5146. The
board found that the pearls "were imported in a morocco
case, with silk lining, forming a. groove running lengthwise, in which the pearls were placed and by which they
were held; that they were all matched and assorted as to
quality, size, color, and shape, and arranged in a graduated
order, the center being the largest, and gradually decreasing in size to the last pearl at each end; that the pearls were
invoiced as 'drilled pearls,' and are drilled, and when the
boxes were opened gave the appearance of necklaces;
that they each constituted extraordinary collections of
such and were of the finest ever imported into this country;
that by reason of this matching and assortment they in
each case possessed a value greatly in excess of the aggregate values of the individual pearls composing the collection."
The Circuit Court affirmed the action of the board.
Neresheimer & Co. v. United States (1903), 131 Fed. Rep.
977. But on appeal the decision was reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals (1904), 68 C. C. A. (2d Cir.) 654,
136 Fed. Rep. 86. Reviewing the conflicting testimony,
the Court of Appeals concluded that the evidence did
not warrant a finding that the pearls had been assorted
so as to acquire the increased value as a collection which
would bring them within the exception suggested in the
Tiffany Case. It was held that they were dutiable at
ten per cent. "by similitude to paragraph 436."
In 1905, Charles E. Rushmore imported eighty-five
pearls which the appraiser, in a special report, stated had
"been carefully selected, matched, and assorted, and, in
fact, are said to have been strung, and require only to
be restrung to form a necklace. They are in the same
condition as those passed upon by the board in G. A.

UNITED STATES v. CITROEN.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

5146 (T. D. 23,748)." The Board of General Appraisers,
upon this report, reversed the ruling of the collector and
decided that the duty was ten per cent., on the authority
of the Neresheimer Case, supra. No appeal was taken
by the Government from this decision; it was rendered
on January 21, 1905, and was circulated by the Treasury
Department for the information and guidance of officers
of customs and others concerned.
It thus appears that prior to 1906, when Citroen imported the pearls now in question, unstrung pearls, though
drilled and matched so that they were ready to be strung
as a necklace, had been held dutiable at ten per cent. The
fact that they were reported to have been previously
strung abroad had not been deemed of consequence in
the Rushmore Case, and the Government had acquiesce(
in the ruling. Further, the exception indicated by the
court in the Tiffany and Neresheimer Cases was negatived
by the Board of General Appraisers, which in Citroen',
case found that the pearls were not matched as to color
and luster with such care as would enhance their value
as a collection. T. D. 28,246, G. A. 6617. And the
Circuit Court of Appeals, reversing the Circuit Court,
held that there was no reason to disturb these findings.
"It is fair to assume," said the Court of Appeals (p. 695).
that the ruling in the Rushmore Case "actuated the ap.pellant (Citroen) in importing and selling. the pearls."
And it -is now asserted by his counsel at this, bar that
should the Government succeed, Citroen would be the
only person who would have paid sixty per cent. duty on a
collection of pearls of the sort which these have been
found to be.
Later-in 1909-while the act of 1897 was still in force,
Tiffany & Company imported fifty-nine pearls divided
into four packages, all loose and all drilled. It appeared
from the testimony before the Board of General Appraisers that M. Guggenheim, the ultimate purchaser,

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

visited the Paris establishment of Tiffany & Company,
for the purpose of purchasing a necklace for his wife and
finding nothing suitable in stock he requested the salesman to get a numbor of pearls together to make the desired necklace. The assortment was finally completed,
a sketch being made of the necklace as it would appear
when finished; and an order was given for the necklace
to be made by Tiffany & Company at New York from the
pearls selected. While it was not shown that the pearls
had been worn abroad, it was found that they may have
been, "and probably were temporarily strung in the
Paris establishment one or more times to show how the
string of pearls would appear as a necklace." On the
authority of the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals
in Citroen's case, the Board of General Appraisers sustained the importer's protest, holding that the pearls were
dutiable either directly or by similitude at ten per cent.
under paragraph 436. T. D. 29,542, G. A. 6864. This
was sustained by the Circuit Court (United States v.
Tiffany & Company, 172 Fed. Rep. 300), and its decision
was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals, 101 C. C. A.
(2d Cir.) 665; 178 Fed. Rep. 1006. Petition for writ of
certiorari was denied by this court. 218 U. S. 675.
In its opinion in the present case, the court below (166
Fed. Rep. 696) forcibly expressed its dissatisfaction with
the effort to resolve the doubt as to the meaning of the
statute by a comparison "depending not upon an examination of the articles themselves, but often upon extrinsic
evidence obtained long afterwards." It was a comparison, said the court, "which cannot be uniform, which
imposes 10 per cent. upon one aggregation of pearls and
sixty per cent. upon a similar aggregation, the rate depending upon the ability to obtain evidence of prior use
in foreign countries. A comparison which does not admit
of a fixed, definite rule, which encourages partiality,
promotes injustice; and has broken down in practical

UNITED STATES v. CITROEN.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

application. This is illustrated by the fact that in the
cases which have come to the attention of the court the
most marked contrariety of opinion has developed as to
whether the respective collection was matched for a
necklace, and whether a larger price could be obtained
for the pearls singly or in combination." The Court
of Appeals also stated that it would incline to the opinion,
were the question an open one in that court, "that -drilled
pearls are not excluded from paragraph 436."
In this view we think the court was right. As was
pointed out by the Board of General Appraisers:" Pearls
just as they come from the shell are, strictly speaking,
only such as are in their natural state." But the statute
deals with the pearls of commerce. It appears that over
seventy-five per cent. of all large pearls when they first
come into the hands of wholesale dealers are drilled, usually in a somewhat primitive manner by the pearl fishers.
It cannot be supposed that Congress contemplated such
a disregard of the facts of trade, and such a radical
departure from the policy of former tariff legislation,
as would be involved in a construction of paragraph 436
which would exclude drilled pearls. Moreover, the
language of the paragraph is "pearls in their natural state,
not strung or set." This implies that the description
includes pearls that can be strung or set, and pearls cannot
be strung unless perforated. The words do not exclude,
but embrace pearls that have been pierced, provided they
are unstrung and unset.
But if drilled pearls, when neither strung nor set, are
included in paragraph 436, the fact that they have been
matched or assorted so as to form a collection suitable
for stringing, or of being worn strung, does not take them
out of the paragraph. Its language makes no distinction
of that sort. The selection, or matching, does not alter
the character of the pearls.
We are of the opinion that, as in former tariff acts to

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

223 U. S.

which reference has been made, Congress intended to
cover and did cover all pearls in the two paragraphs and
did not leave a class of pearls unenumerated. The words
in paragraph 436 are to be taken as describing a condition
in antithesis to that described in paragraph 434, under
which, if strung or set, imported pearls are dutiable as
jewelry. Such an interpretation provides a simple and
workable test, permitting certainty and impartiality in
administration which should preeminently characterize
the operation of tariff laws, and fulfills, as we believe, the
purpose of Congress.
We conclude that the similitude clause has no application and that upon the facts shown the pearls imported
in this case were dutiable under paragraph 436 at ten per
cent.
Judgment affirmed.
FERRIS v. FROHMAN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
No. 44. Submitted November 7, 1911.-Decided February 19, 1912.
Although complainant may assert his own common-law copyright to
his play, if he alleges that defendant has obtained a copyright for
the play sought to. be enjoined, and the defendant stands upon the
copyright and is enjoined, a Federal right is set up and denied, and
this court has jurisdiction to review the judgment, under § 709,
Rev. Stat.
Under the lw as it existed in 1894, after a play had been performed in
England, t,. - rights of the owner to protection against the unauthorized production in England is only that given by the statutes;
but the deprivation of common-law rights by force of the statutes
was limited by territorial bounds within which the statute was
operative.
Public representation in this, or in another, country of a dramatic
composition, not printed and published, does not deprive the owner
of his common-law right save by operation of statute.

