OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
223 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error

KER AND COMPANY v. COUDEN.
ERROR

TO

THE

SUPREME

COURT

OF

THE

PHILIPPINE

ISLANDS.

No. 11.

Argued January 27, 1912.-Decided February 19, 1912.

The question of ownership under the Spanish law of accessions to the
shore by accretion and alluvion has been a vexed one.
The Roman law is not like a deed or a modern code prepared uno
flatu, but history has played h large part in its development.
Under the civil law, the seashore flowed by the tides, unlike the banks
of rivers, was public property, belonging, in Spain, to the sovereign.
Under the Spanish Law of Waters of 1866, which became effective in
the Philippines in 1871, lands added to the shore by accessions and
accretions belong to the public domain unless and until the government shall decide they are no longer needed for public utilities and
shall declare them to belong to the adjacent estates.
This rule applies not only to accessions to the shore while it is washed
by the tide, but also to addition which actually become dry land.
.The doctrine that accessions to the shore of the sea by accretion belong to the public domain and not to the adjacent estate has been
adopted by the leading civil law countries, including France, Italy
and Spain.
In determining what law is-applicable totitles in the Philippines, this
court deals with Spanish law as prevailing in the Philippines, and
not with law which prevails in this country whether of mixed antecedents or the common law.
Where a case is brought up on an appeal on a single question,in regard
to which there is no error, judgment below will be affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the title to land in the Philip-

pine Islands formed by action of the sea, are stated in the
opinion.

Mr. Oscar Sutro, with whom Mr. E. S. Pillsbury, Mr.
Aldis B. Browne, Mr. Alexander Britton and Mr. Evans
Browne were on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
The Supreme Court of, the Philippines erred in holding

KER v. COUDEN.
223 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

that the law, as written in the Partidas, declares that land
above seashore formed by accretion from the sea belongs
to the Crown and not to the riparian owner. Laws 3,
4, 6, 24, Tit. 28, 3d Partidas.
From the premise that the accessory follows the principal, the conclusion necessarily follows that, under the said
Laws 3 and 4 of Title 28 of the Third Partida, the ownership of land, formed by accretion through the action of
the sea, is in the riparian proprietor, after it has ceased
to be washed by the tides.
From the express language of these definitions it appears that what is "shore" on the border of the sea during
a particular year is to be determined by the high-water
mark during that year, and that if the year following such
particular year the high-water line has receded, then, at
the end of such later year, the land between the highwater mark of the earlier year and the high-water mark
of the later year is no longer "shore," for the waters have
not coveredit "when it rises its highest in all the year."
And being then 'neither air, rain, water, sea nor shore,
it does not "belong in common to all creatures," for, having expressly mentioned the particular things which "belong in common to all creatures," the lawmakers have
thereby impliedly said that no other things than those
enumerated "belong in common to all creatures." Expressio unius est exclusio alterius. United States v. Arredondo, 6 Pet. 691; Sturges v. The Collector, 12 Wall. 19;
Arthur v. Cumming, 91 U. S. 362.
The "shore" at the civil law extended to that part of
the land washed by the highest tides. Galveston v. Menard,
23 Texas, 349, 399; Hall Mexican Law, 448; Civil Code,
Mexico, Art. 802.
Equally as at the common law, the shore, at civil law,
was the line of high tide. United States v. Pacheco,. 2
Wall. 587, 590.
The rule at common law, as under the Partidas, is

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

223 U. S.

that the "shore" of the sea belongs. to the Crown for the
use of the public. But the rule at common law is that
accretions from the sea belong to the riparian owner.
Kent v. Yarborough, 1 Dow. & Clark, 178; 3 Kent's Comm.
428; 2 Black. Comm. 262; New Orleans v. United States,
10 Pet. 662; Saulet v. Shepherd, 4 Wall. 502; Banks v.
Ogden,. 2 Wall. 57; St. Clair v. Lovingston, 23 Wall. 46;
Jefferis v. Omaha Land Co., 134 U. S. 178; Shively v.
Bowlby, 152 U. S. 1.
The Law of Ports of 1880 superseded the Law of Waters
of 1866.
-It thus affirmatively appears from the Law of Waters
and from the Law of Ports that the meaning of the term
"shore," as used therein, is linm.ted to the area actually
,being washed by the waters of the sea, and must be held
that in the Partidas, the earlier statute, the word "shore"
was used in the same sense; for it is a settled rule for the
construction of statutes that where it appears from a
later statute in pari materia that a term is therein used
in a particular sense, then it is to be presumed that, in
the earlier statute, such term was used in the same sense.
Alexander v. Alexandria, 5 Cranch (U. S.), 1; United States
v. Freeman, 3 How. 556; Harrison v. Vose, 9 How. 372;
Harris v. Runnels, 12 How. 80; Farmers' &c. Bank v.
Dearing, 91 U. S. 29.
When Laws 3 and 4 of Title 28 of the Third Partida
and Laws 6 and 24 of the same title are considered together, the only inference that can be d~rawn therefrom
is that accretions to the "shore" of the sea do not belong
to the Crown, even if it be assumed that, as held by the
courts below, the term "shore," as used in the Partidas,
includes land at any previous time washed by the tides.
Hare v. Horton, 5 Barn. and Ad. 160.
Under the rule that statutes, if doubtful, must receive
a reasonable construction, it follows that, under the
Partidas, the title to land formed by accretion on the

KER v. COUDEN.
223 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

borders of the sea is not in the Crown, but is in the riparian proprietor. Stephens v. Cherokee Nation, 174 U. S.
445; Beley v. Naphtaly, 169 U. S. 353; Chesapeake &c.
R. Co. v. Miller, 114 U. S. 176, 187.
All reason is against the said interpretation put upon
the Partidas by the court. New Orleans v. United States,
10 Pet. 662, 717; Jefferis v. Omaha Land Co., 134 U. S. 178,
192; 2 Black. Comm. 262; Banks v. Ogden, 2 Wall. 57, 67;
Lamprey v. Metcalf, 52 Minnesota, 181.
Under the rule that, where a statute of one State is
adopted by another, it is to be presumed that the interpretation placed upon the original statute is also adopted,
and under the Partidas, accretions from the sea do
not belong to the Crown, but belong to the riparian
owner.
The laws of Spain, as embodied in the Partidas, were
drawn largely from the Institutes of Justinian. Hannis
Taylor, "Science of Jurisprudence," 162.
The interpretation placed upon the provisions of the
Roman'law by the writers upon that subject ought to be
followed in construing a statute of a country which has
adopted such statute from the civil law. Viterbo v. Friedlander, 120 U. S. 707; Groves v. Sentell, 153 U. S. 465;
Meyer v. Richards, 163 U. S. 385; Lord Mackenzie's
Roman Law, 177; Angell on Tide Waters, 2d ed. 249.
None of the authorities cited by the lower courts in
support of their said conclusion lends any support thereto.
The authorities support the contention of the appellant
that, under the Partidas, accretions formed by the action
of the sea, when they become dry land, by reason of the
recession of the high-water mark, belong to the riparian
owner. Amandi, Civil Code, Vol. 2, p. 95; Scaevola,
Commentary on Civil Code, Vol. 6, 338; Escriche, Dictionary of Law, p. 449.
Under the Law bf Waters of 1866, which Went into
effect in the Philippines in September, 1871, title to lands

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

223 U. S.

formed by accretion vested in the riparian proprietor,
and not in the Crown.
This is the doctrine in Louisiana, where the civil law
prevails. Municipality No. 2 v. Orleans Cotton Press, 18
Louisiana, 122; St. Clair County v. Lovingston, 23 Wall. 46,
cited with approval in Nebraska v. Iowa, 143 U. S. 369,
and Shively v. Bowlby, 152 U. S. 1, and followed by the
state courts in Freeland v. Penn. R. Co., 197 Pa. St. 529,
and Kuudson v. Omanson, 10 Utah, 124.
The various provisions of the Law of Waters affirmatively show that the term "shore," as -used in that law,
includes land being swept by the tides, only, and that
when, by reason of accretions, the high-tide line recedes
Arfrom such land it thereupon ceases to be "shore."
ticles 4, 8, 9 of the Law of Waters sustain the contention
of plaintiff in error that -under the express provisions
of the Law of Waters, accretions from the sea, when they
are no longer covered by the tides, belong to the riparian
owner, and are not a part of the public domain.
The provisions of the Law of Ports of 1880 make it
clear that Article 4 of the Law of Waters of 1866 does not
have the effect of vesting title to accretions, which have
become dry land, in the Government. Alexander v.
Alexandria, 5 Cranchi 1.
The second sentence of Art. 4 of the Law of Waters
constitutes a clear recognition of the fact that it was not
intended that, under the said. law, accretions which had
become dry land by reason of the recession of the sea
should belong to the Government.
If the lawmakers had intended that, under the Law of
Waters, accretions from the sea should be a part of the
public domain, even after they had become dry land, they
would have said so, and would not have left the questiQn
to be settled by the uncertain result of litigation and
judicial decision. Nationdl Bank v. Matthewe, .98 U. S.
621, 627.

KEk v. COUDEN.
223 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

In a case like this, if there is any doubt or ambiguity
in the Spanish law, the applicant should have the benefit
of the doubt. Carifo v. Insular Governmenit, 212 U.'S.
449, 460.
TheiSolicitor General for defendant in error:
The land in controversy,, having been formed from time to time since the year 1811, down to the present, by accession or accretion, occasioned by the action of the sea,
became, as it was formed; a part of the public domain
of Spain, and, as 'such, became, upon the acquisition by
it of the Philippine Islands, a part of the public domain
of the United States.
. All agree that the law as to accretions prior
to September 24, 1871, is to be found in the "Codigo de las
Siete Partidas." "The Compilation of the Laws of the
Kingdoms of the Indies" contained nothing upon the
subject, but it.was provided by those laws that where
they were silent the laws of Castile should be applied both
as to right and remedy.
The Partidas bearing upon the case, directly or indirectly, are: Law 1. What is meant by dominion, and
how many kinds there are.. Law 2. That there is a
distinction between the ,things of this world; that some
of them belong to all creatures living; and others not.
Law 3. What the things are which belong in common to..
all creatures living. Law 4. Every man who chooses, may
build a house or cabin upon the seashore, as a retreat;
and he may erect there, any other edifice whatever, to
serve his purposes; provided he does not thereby, interfere with the use of the shore, which every one has a right
in common to enjoy. He may also build vessels; stretch
and mend his nets. Law 5. That he who finds gold,
pearls or precious stones bn the seashore, acquires the'
property of them. Law- 6.' That every one may make
use of ports, rivers and public roads. Law 26. The invOL. ccxxIm-18

274

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

223 U. S.

crease which a*river makes by .accretion to an estate belongs to him to whose estate it is carried, and he who lost
it has no claim whatever to it. But not so if by avulsion.
Se 1 Moreau and Cale ton's Partidas, ed.,1820, pp. 334
et seq..
In these laws there is a signal difference between the
seashore and the. river bank. The sea and its shore belong
in common to all the living creatures of the world.
The Law of Waters of August 3, 1866, wa§ promulgated,
and became effective in the Philippines, on September 24,
1871.
While differing from the Partidas in some details, it
rests upon the same principle, that the seashore o beach
is public property. See Arts. 1, 4, 8, 9, 10. By'Art. 4
lands which .attach themselves to the shore by accretions
and deposits, caused by the sea, are of public ownership.
Spanish commentators upon the law of Spain, support the position of the Government. 2 Arrazola, Enciclopedia Espafiola Derecho y Administracion, Madrid,
1849, pp. 580-583; 2 Gutierrez Fernandez, Treatise Codigos o Estudios Fundamentales, 86; 7 Alcubilla, Diccionario
od.
of 188t, 7, 108.
de la Administracion Espafiola,
While Angell on Tide Waters sustains the law of accretions, as contended for by the plaintiffs, as the doctrine
of. the Roman, French, Spanish, and Louisiana jurisprudence, he is mistaken. See. Aft. 454 4f the Civil Code
of Italy, 1865; §§_556-7, Code' Napoleon; 2 Marcad;
Explication, du Code Napoldon 5th ed., Vol 2, 439;.
Littr6, in his French dictionary, sub "lais" as meaning
in law "alluvian." Section 557, present Civil Code of
France,' Blackwood's translation; Digest of Civil Laws in
force in 1808. in Orleans Territory, book 2, 106; and see
Zeller v. Yacht Club, 34 La. Ann.837.
The weight of authority is against the writers cited
by plaintiffs in error, and there is absolutely no authority

KER'v. COUDEN.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

.to support the contention of plaintiffs as to accretions
made since the Law of Waters of 1866 went into effect.
No Spanish authority questions the validity of either
the Law of Waters of 1866 or the Law of Ports of 1880.
The former owners themselves believed that the Law of
Waters applied, that the State had the prior and paramount right to the land and could use it for a .public
purpose, and that the right of the adjacent owner attached
only when the lands were to be put to private use.
MR.

JUSTICE, HoLMES

delivered the opinion of the

court.,
.-This is ian action brought by Ker. and Company to
recover possession of land held by the dMfendant under
a claim. of title in the United States. . The land is the'
present extremity of Sangley Point, in the Province of
Cavite and island of Luzon,, projecting into Manila Bay.
It has been -formed gradually by actiorf of the- sea; all
of it since 1811, about three-quarters since 1856, and a
part since 1871. For a long time the property was used
by the Spanish Navy and it now is occupied by the present
Government. as a naval station, works costing more than
half a million dollars ha v ing been erected upon it. The
plaintiffs claim title under conveyances from the owner
-of the upland. The Philippine courts held that under
the partidas, III, JTit. 28, Laws 3, 4, 6, 24 .and 26, and
.the Law of Waters of 1866, the title to the accretions
remained in the Government, and, the vexed question
has been brought to this court.
That the question is a vexed one is shown not only by
the different views of Spanish commentators but by the
contrary provisions of modem codes and by the occasional
intirnations of the doctors of the Roman law. Justinian's
Institutes, 2, 1, 20 (Gaius II. 70), followed by the Partidas, 3, 28, 26, give the alluvial increase of river banks to

OCTOBER, TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

the owner of the bank. If this is to be taken as ai example,. illustrating a general principle there is an end of
the matter. But the Roman law is not like a deed or a
modern code prepaied uno flatu. History plays too large
a part to make it safe to generalize from a single passage
in so easy a fashion. Alongside of the rule as to rivers
we find that the right of alluvion is not recognized for
lakes and ponds, D. 41, 1, 12, a rule often repeated in the
civil law codes, e. g., Philippine Civil Code of 1889, Arts.
366, 367: 'Code Napoleon, Art. 550. Italy, Civil Code,
1865, Art. 454. Mexico, Art. 797. If we are to generalize, the-analogy of lakes to the sea is closer than that of
rivers.-We find further that In agris limitatis jus alluvionis locum non habet. And the .right of alluvion is
denied for the agrum manu captum, which was limitatum
in order that it might be known (exactly) what was
granted. D. 41, 1, 16. The gloss of Accursius treats
this as the reason for denying the jus alluvionis. If this
reason, again were generalized, it might lead to a contrary
result from the passage in the Institutes. Grotius treats
the whole matter as arbitrary, to be governed by local
rules, and both the doctrine as to rivers and the distinction
as to accurately bounded lands as rational enough. De
Jure B. & P. Lib. 2, cap. 8, 11,'12. A respectable modern
-writer thinks that it was a. mistake to preserve the passage concerning definitely bounded grants in the Digest,
1 Demangeat, Droit Romain, 2d ed. 441 ('antiquirt'
Puchta, Pandekten, § 165), but so far as we, have observed this is an exceptional view, and from the older commentators that we have examined down to the late
brilliant and, admirable work of Girard, Droit Romain,
4th ed. 324, this passage seems to be accepted as a part
of the law. At all events it shows that, as we have said,
it is unsafe to go much beyond what we find in the books:
And to illustrate a little further the uncertainty as to
the Roman doctrine we may add that Donellus mentions

KER v. COUDEN.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the opinion that alluvion from the sea goes to the private
owner only to remark that the texts cited do not support
it, De Jur. Civ. IV, c. 27, 1 Opera (ed. 1828), 839 n., and
treats the rule of the Institutes as peculiar to rivers, as
also Vinnius in his comment on the passage stating the
rule seems to do, while Huberus, on the other hand, thinks
that rivers furnish the principle that ought to prevail.
.Praelectiones, II, Tit. 1, 34.
The seashore flowed by the tides, unlike the banks of
rivers, was public property; in Spain belonging to the
sovereignpower. Inst. II, Tit. 1.3, 4, 5. D. 43, 8, 3. Partidas, III, Tit. 28, 3, 4. And it is a somewhat different
proposition from that laid down as to rivers if it should
be held that a vested title is withdrawn by accessions
to what was owned before. Perhaps a stronger argument
could be based on the rule that the title to the river bed
changes as the river changes its place. Part. III, Tit. 28.
Law 31. Inst. 2. 2, 23. D. 41.1.7, 5. But we are less concerned with the theory than with precedent in a matter
like this, whether we agree with Grotius or not in his general view. The Spanish commentators do not help us,
as they go little beyond a naked statement one way or
the other. It seems to us that the. best evidence of the
view prevailing in Spain is to be found in the codification
which presumably embodies it. The Law of Waters
of 1866, which became effective in the Philippines in
September, 1871, and the validity of which we see no
reason to doubt, after declaring like- the Partidas that the
shores (playas), or spaces alternately covered and uncovered by the sea, are part of the national domain and
for public use, Arts. 1, 3, goes on thus: "Art. 4. The
lands added to the shores by the accessions and accretions
caused by the sea belong to the public domain. When
they are not (longer) washed by the waters of the sea,
and are not necessary for objects of public utility, nor
for the establishment of special industries, nor for the

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

coast guard service, the Government shall [will?] declare

them property of the adjacent estates, in increase of the
same.")
Notwithstanding the argument that this article is
only a futile declaration concerning accessions to the
shore while it remains such in a literal sense, that is,
washed by the tide, we think it plain that it includes and
principally means additions that turn the shore to dry
land. These all remain subject to public ownership
unless and until the Government shall decide that they
are not needed for the purposes mentioned and shall declare them to belong to the adjacent estates. The later
provision in Article 9, that the public easement for salvage, &c., shall advance and recede. as the sea recedes
or advances, simply determines that neither public nor
private ownership shall exclude the customary public use
from the new place. The Spanish Law of Ports of 1880,
like the Law of Waters, asserts the title of the State although it confers private rights when there is no public
need.
The presumption that the foregoing provisions of the
Law of Waters express the understanding of the codifiers
as to what the earlier law had been, becomes almost
inexpugnable when we find that the other leading civil
law countries have adopted the same doctrine. The Code
Napoleon, after laying down the Roman rule for alluvion
in rivers, Art. 556, 557, adds. at the end of the latter
Article: "Ce .droit n'a pas lieu Al'6gard des relais des la
mer," which seems to have been adopted without controversy at the Conf6rence. See'further Marcad6, Explication, 5th ed., vol. 2, p. 439. And compare 2 Hall's
Am. Law Journal,. 307, 324, 329, 333. The Civil Code
of Italy, 1865, Art., 454, is to similar effect. See also,
Chile, Civil Code, Art. 650. The Supreme Court of
Louisiana in like manner confines the private acquisition
of alluvion to rivers and running 'streams, and denies

KER v. COUDEN.
223 U. S.

MCKENNA,

J., dissenting.

the private right in the case of lakes and the sea. Zeller
v. Yacht Club, 34 La. Ann. 837. And the provision of the
Louisiana Code, Art. 510, is like those of France, Italy
and Spain., The court of first instance below refers to
judgments of the Supreme Court of Spain that seems
to look in the same direction. We have neither heard
nor found anything on the other side that seems to us to
approach the foregoing considerations in weight, not to
speak of the respect that we must feel for the concurrent
opinion of both the courts below upon a matter of local
law with which they are accustomed to deal. Of course
wo are dealing with the law of the Philippines, not with
that which prevails, in this country, whether of mixed
antecedents or the common law.
As the case'was brought up on the single question that
we have discussed the judgment of the court below must
be affirmed.
Judgment aprmed.
MR., JUSTICE McKENNA, dissenting.
I cannot agree with the conclusion of the court. It
seems to be conceded that it is not necessarily determined
by the authorities which are cited. I think the better
deduction from them is that they only declare the con-,
stant integrity of the shore, and the dominion of the government over it whether it. recede or advance. When it
ceases to be washed by the tides or the seas it becomes
part of the upland and belongs to the owner of the upland. And this is but the application of the principle,
said to be of natural justice, that he who loses by the
encroachmnents of the sea shoud gain by its recession.
Banks v. Ogden, 2 Wall. 57, 67.

