THE SAN PEDRO.
223 U. S.

Syllabus.

construction and replacements, and in cividends in recent years.
For the reasons indicated, we direct that the decree be
Reversed, and the cause remanded to the District.Court
to refer the case to a competent and skilled master,
to report fully his findings upon all of the questions
raised by either party, separately, and with leave to
both parties to take any additional evidence they may
wish within a time to be fixed by the court, and that that
court upon such report proceed as equity shall require.
It is further ordered for the protection of all parties that
the injunction granted in the court below continue in
force until final decree there, upon condition that the
appellant enter into a new bond, with sureties satisfactory to the court below, to account for all overcharges
to consumers since the original restrainingorder in the
event the ordinance shall be sustained, and that if such
bond be not made within twenty days after the filing
of the mandate that the injunction stand dissolved.

THE SAN PEDRO. 1
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 155. Submitted December 22, 1911.-Decided February 19, 1912.
The manifest object of the fifty-fourth rule in admiralty cannot be
defeated solely because its enforcement might involve expense,
delay or inconvenience.
The limited liability proceedings under §§ 4283 et seq., Rev. Stat., is
Docket title: Metropolitan Redwood Lumber Co., Claimant of
the Steamer "San Pedro," Appellant, v. Charles P. Doe, Owner of the
American Steamer "George W. Elder," et al.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Appellant.

223 U. S.

in its nature exclusive of any separate suit against an owner on
account of the ship. The monition which issued after surrender and
stipulation for value requires every person to assert his claim in
that case.
One having a claim for salvage against a vessel whoe owners have instituted proceedings under §§ 4283 et seq., Rev. Stat., cannot proceed in admiralty in a separate suit, and must prove his claim in the
limited liability proceeding.
The issuing of an injunction in the limited liability proceeding is not
necessary to stop proceedings in other courts on claims against the
vessel or its owners. Power to grant an injunction exists under
§ 4283, Rev. Stat., but when the procedure required by rule 54 has
been followed, the monition itself has the effect of a statutory injunction.' Providence, & N. Y. Steamship Co. v. Hill Mfg. Co., 109
U. S. 578.
Qum,re: Whether liability for towage into port of a vessel after collision
is a claim like one for repairs by reason of the collision for which the
owners of the injured vessel may recover from guilty colliding vessel.
Under §§ 4283, 4284, Rev. Stat., as amended by § 18 of the act of
June 26, 1884, 23 Stat. 55, c. 12, any and all debts and liabilities of
the owner incurred on account of the ship without his privity or
fault are included in the limited liability proceeding, including claim
for salvage after collision. Richardson v. Harmon, 222 U. S. 96. '
Qure: Whether a highly meritorious salvage service, benefiting alike
the owner and creditors of a vessel, is entitled to preference from the
fund.

THE facts, which involve the construction of the statutes
limiting liability of vessel owners and practice and procedure thereunder, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. William Denman and Mr. Charles Page for appellant:
The cost of salving the San Pedro is a damage arising
from the collision and hence should be litigated in the
limitation proceeding. The Charles G. Lister, 174 Fed.
Rep. 288; The Cepheus, 24 Fed. Rep. 507; Marsden on
Collisions, 6th ed., 110.
The couri is obliged to take cognizance of the salvage
in the limitation proceedings for a variety of purposes.
' The damages collected from the negligent ship by the

THE SAN PEDRO.
223 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

injured one must be paid into the fund if the injured
vessel seeks a limitation. O'Brien V.Miller, 168 U. S. 299.
The damages recovered as compensation for the payment
of salvage would therefore be a part of the fund.
The liabilities of the owners of vessels arising from a
collision are to be litigated in a limitation proceeding just
as any other liabilities inflicted'-on the owner of a vessel
which has suffered injury.. Norwich Co. v. Wright, 13
Wall. 104.
As damages from the collision were to be adjudicated
in the limitation proceeding, the jurisdiction of the
District Court of the libel ceased as soon as the stipulation for value required by rule 54 was filed in the limitation proceeding.
The statutory injunction provided for in Rev. Stat.,
§4285, arises as well when a stipulation is given as upon a
surrender and ipso facto ousts the other courts of jurisdiction without the service of any writ on the parties litigant.
Providence S. S. Co. v. Hill Mfg. Co., 109 U. S.578, 600;
Butler v. Boston S. S. Co., 130 U. S. 527, 550; The Dimock,
52 Fed. Rep. 598; Morrison v. District Court of the United
States, 147 U. S.14.
Even if the San Pedro was in fault, the claim against
her owners for salvage is not a damage consequential from
the collision which could be recovered 'from the persons
wrongfully causing the collision. The salvage liability is
a damage consequent from the collision for which the
owner is liable, whether or not he can shift that liability
to some one else.
The real question is whether the collision is the proximate cause of the damages for.which the owners are liable
in the salvage suit and it must be patent beyond all cavil
that the collision was the sole cause.
There is no disputed question of fact involved in the
appeal.
The hardship to neither party can affect the question of

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Appellees.

223 U. S.

jurisdiction. Providence S. S. Co. v. Hill Mfg. Co., 109
U. S. 578.
The salvage proceeding here before the court is separate
and distinct from the proceeding for limitation of liability. An appeal in the one can in no way bring up the
record in the other.
If, when the salvage claimant subsequently appeared,
he was'dissatisfied with the amount of the stipulation, his
plain remedy was to move for an increase of the appraisement, a right which any claimant has. In re Morrison,
147 U. S. 14 at 35.
Mr. F. A. Cutler, Mr. F. R. Sweasey, Mr. J. N. Gilldt,
Mr. Aldis B. Browne, Mr. Alexander Britton and Mr.
Evans Browne for appellees:
Appellant, having participated in this separate salvage
proceeding throughout up to and including their stipulation of March 5, 1909, upon which date every issue has
been resolved and every essential element determined,
should not thereafter, while there was lacking but the
mere mechanical act of signing and filing a second decree
embodying merely the complete mathematical computations, be permitted to escape this award made after full
and fair hearing and force a new trial of the matters in,volved in another proceeding by virtue solely of the suggestion of pending limitation of liability proceedings.
The issuing of an injunction as an essential step in the
enforcement of the provisions of the statute has been
recognized in numerous cases. The Lotta, 150 Fed. Rep.
21.9; Delaware River Ferry Co. v. Amos, 179 Fed. Rep.
756, 758; In re Morrison, 147 U. S. 14, 35; Morgan v.
Sturges, 154 U. S. 256, 270; In re Providence &c. S. S. Co.,
20 Fed. Cas. No. 11,451; S. C., 6 Ben. 124; The H. F.
Dimock, 52 Fed. Rep. 598, 601; Norwich & N. Y. Trans.
Co. v. Wright, 13 Wall. *104;In re Long Island Transf. Co.,
5 Fed. Rep. 629.

THE SAN PEDRO.

223 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

The salvage claim is not a damage under provisions of
§§ 4283 et seq.; Norwich & N. Y. Tran. Co. v. Wright, 13
Wall. 104; The Doris Eckhoff, 30 Fed. Rep. 140.
Where, as in the present instance, the collision was
caused by negligence of appellant itself and no damages
whatever are recoverable against the owner of the other
vessel on account of payment of salvage or other loss,
there is no case of damage to appellant. The Charles G.
Lister, 174 Fed. Rep. 288; O'Brien v. Miller, 168 U. S. 299.
The provisions of § 4284 are not only limited in effect to
losses, suffered by others than the one petitioning for
limitation of liability, but deal solely with losses subject
to a pro-rata payment from the sum for which such owner
may be liable. In re Catskill, 95 Fed. Rep. 702.
Section 4285 is expressly limited to the liability of the
owner
for loss or destruction of any property, goods or
merchandise
if he shall transfer his interest in such vessel
and freight to a trustee for the benefit of such claimants.
Providence & N. Y. S. S. Co. v. Hill Mfg. Co., 109 U. S.
578.
This salvage claim being entirely independent of the
issues involved in the limitation of liability proceedings, is
not embraced within either the letter. or the spirit of
§§ 4283 to 4285, Revised Statutes.
The salvage services were subsequent to termination of
voyage.
Prior to the rendition of the salvage serviceq the steamer
San Pedro had been abandoned by her crew and was a
derelict.
The commissioner's report appraising the vessel was
based upon the value of the vessel immediately following
the collision and while she lay wrecked in the ocean.
The adoption by the court of this report, appraising the
vessel at a point in the ocean immediately after the wreck,
involves an implied finding of fact that the voyage was
broken up and terminated at that point. Place v. Norwich
VOL. ccxxiII-24

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.

Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

& N. Y. Trans. Co., 118 U. S. 468; The Pine Forest, 129
Fed. Rep. 700, 705; Gokey v. Fort, 44 Fed. Rep. 364; The
'Abbie C. Stubbs, 28 Fed. Rep. 719; The Giles Loring, 48
Fed. Rep. 463, 472; The Rose Culkin, 52 Fed. Rep. 328; The
Doris Eckhoff, 30 Fed. Rep. 140; The Great Western, 118
U. S. 520, 525.
A voyage is terminated by abandonment at sea. Carver,
Carriage by ,Sea, §§ 307-308; Spencer on Marine Co1lisions, § 220.
The stipulation should be in an amount equal to the
value of the ship at the time her voyage was terminated
and is to be estimated by deducting from the value at the
port of safety the value of the salvage services. Pacific
Coast Co. v. Reynolds, 114 Fed. Rep. 877; The Abbie C.
Stubbs, 28 Fed. Rep. 719; The Pine Forest-, 129 Fed. Rep.
705; The Anna, 47 Fed. Rep. 525; Benedict, Admiralty,
4th ed., § 371.
The District Court having, at the instigation of appellant, adopted a point of time immediately after the collision as the termination of the voyage, which fact is therefore determined for this appeal, that is the point of time
at which th, value of the vessel and freight pending is to
be fixed and also the point of time when the liability to
be limited must be ascertained. In re Meyer, 74 Fed. Rep.
881, 897, and cases cited.
Appellant is estopped by its own action in regard to the
appraisement from now endeavoring to force the court to
deduct' the amounof the salvage services from the salved
value of the vessel in fixing the amount of the stipulation
for value, and thereafter force the salvors to seek payment
for their services out of such stipulation for value.
MR, .JusTICE LURTON delivered the opinion of the
court.
In an independent libel proceeding instituted in the

THE SAN PEDRO.
223 U. S.

•371
3

Opinion of the Court.

District 'Court by the owner of the steamer Gporge W.
Elder, against the Metropolitan Lumber Company, the
claimant of the steamer San Pedro, the libellant, recovered a decree for services rendered in towing her to port
after she had been injured in a collisionwith the steamer
Columbia off the coast of California. This decree was
rendered at a time when there was pending in the same
court a separate proceeding for limitation of liability
brought by the Metropolitan Lumber Company, as owner
of the San Pedro.
,Before coming ,to the substantial questions, we may
notice certain 'objections to any judgment which shall
operate to set aside the decree in favor of the appellees.
It is said that the appellaint does not assail the decree in
respect to its merits or the amount of the allowance; -that
nothing but further delay, expense and inconvenience
will result if appellees are required to present and again
prove the claim in the liability cause; and, finally, it is
said that the pendency of the' other suit was not pleaded
until the case was about to be heard upon immaterial
objections to the commissioner's report.
Conceding all that can be said about the expense, delay
and inconvenience which will result if the salvage claimants are to be required to present their claim in the limited
liability case, yet far greater confusion must result if such
objections are enough to defeat the manifest object .of
the fifty-fourth rule. This court, in furtherance of the
apparent purpbse of Congress' to limit the liability of
vessel owners (Revised Statutes, §§ 4283-5), has, ,by that
rule, prescribed how an owner may avail himself of the
benefit of the statute. The very nature of the proceeding
is such that it must be exclusive of any separate suit
against an owner on account of the ship. The monition
which issues when the vessel has been surrendered, and
a -stipulation entered into to pay the value into court,,
requires every person to assert his claim in that case.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

The appellant, owner of the San Pedro, appears to have
proceeded strictly in compliance with the fifty-fourth
admiralty rule. There was a due appraisement of the
San Pedro and her pending freight and a stipulation entered into, with sureties, for the value so appraised, and
a monition duly issued, requiring all persons to present
their claims and make proof. In that situation, the jurisdiction of the court to hear and determine every claim
in that proceeding became exclusive. It was then the
duty of 'every other court, Federal or state, to stop all
further proceedings in separate suits upon claims to which
the limited liability act applied.
Nor is the issuance of an injunction necessary to stop
proceedings in separate or independent suits upon such
claims. Power to grant an injunction exists under § 4285,
Revised Statutes, when necessary to maintain the exclusiveness of the jurisdiction; but when the procedure provided by rule 54 has been followed and a monition has
issued "against all persons claiming damages
citing them to appear before said court and make proof of
their respective claims," etc., it is the duty of every other
court, when the pendency of such a liability petition is
pleaded, to stop. The very nature of the proceeding and
the monition has the effect of a statutory injunction.
-Indeed, that is the express declaration of the statute.
The view we take of the statutory injunction declared
by § 4285,. Revised Statutes, and of its application to
cases where the vessel has been surrendered and a stipulation entered into as provided .by admiralty rule 54, as a
proceeding tantamount to a "transfer" of the ship as
authorized by § 4285, Revised Statutes, is fully supported
by the leading case of Providence & N. Y. S. S. Co. v.
Hill Mfg. Co., 109 U. S. 578, 594, 599, 600 and 601. That
was a suit in a state court against the owner of a steamship
to recover for goods lost by the burning of a steamer.
While the suit was pending the owner filed his petition

THE SAN PEDRO.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

in the proper District Court for the benefit of the limited
liability statute. The proceedings seem to have been conducted in accordance with admiralty rule 54, but, in addition, the petitioners made application, as permitted by that
rule, for an order restraining the prosecution of "all and
any suits" against the owner in respect of claims subject
to the provisions of the act. The owner and defendant
in the suit pending in the state court thereupon, by plea,
set up the limited liability suit as a reason why the state
court should proceed -no further. This was overruled.
Later the defendant therein pleaded the final decree in
the liability suit as a bar to any decree in the state court
against him, as owner. This, too, was disregarded, and
a decree rendered against the owner for the claim for
damages caused by the burning of the steamer and the
plaintiff's goods. This was affirmed in the Supreme
Judicial Court of Massachusetts and brought here upon
writ of error. After a consideration of the meaning and
purpose of the limited liability act of 1851 (March 3,
1851, 9 Stat. 635, c. 43), §§ 4283, 4284 and 4285, Revised
Statutes, and of admiralty rule 54, the court said (p. 594):
"We have deemed it proper to examine thus fully the
foundation on which the rules adopted in December term,
1871, were based, because, if those rules are valid and
binding (as we deem them to be), it is hardly possible to
read them in connection with the act of 1851 without
perceiving that after proceedings have been commenced
in the proper district court in pursuance thereof, the prosecution pari passu of distinct suits in different courts, or
even in the same court by separate claimants, against
the ship owners, is, and must necessarily be, utterly repugnant to such proceedings, and subversive of their
object and purpose."
Later, the court added (pp. 599, 600):
"Proceedings under the act having been duly instituted
in this court, it acquired full jurisdiction of the subject-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

matter; and having taken such jurisdiction, and procured
control of the vessel and freight (or their value), constituting the fund to be distributed, and issued its monition to
all parties to appear and present, their claims, it became
the duty of all courts before which any of such claims
were prosecuted, upon being properly certified of the
proceedings, to suspend further action upon said claims."
"The operation of the act, in this behalf, cannot be
regarded as confined to cases of actual 'transfer,' (which
is merely allowed as a sufficient compliance with the law),
but must be regarded, when we consider its reason and
equity and the whole scope of its provisions, as extending
to cases in which what is required and done is tantamount
to such transfer; as where the value of the owners' interest
is paid into court, or secured by stipulation and placed
under its control, for the benefit of the parties interested."
It was urged in that case that by virtue of § 720, Revised
Statutes, the District Court had no authority to issue an
injunction. But as to this, the court said (p. 600):
"This view of the statutory injunction, and of its effect
upon separate actions and proceedings, renders it unnecessary to determine the question as to the legality of the
writ of injunction issued by the District Court. Although
,we have little doubt of its legality, the question can only
be properly raised on an application for an attachment for
disobeying it. As the writ was issued prior to the adoption
of the Revised Statutes, the power to issue it was not
affected by any supposed change of the law introduced
into the revision, by the 720th section of which the prohibition of the act of 1793 in regard to injunctions against
proceedings in state courts has this exception appended
to it: 'except in cases where such injunction may be
authorized by any law relating to proceedings in bankruptcy.' Under the rule of 'expressio unius' this express
exception may be urged as having the effect of exciud-

THE SAN PEDRO.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ing any other exception; though it is observable that the
injunction clause in the act of 1851 is preserved without
change in section 4285 of the Revised Statutes, and will
probably be construed as having its original effect, due to
its chronological relation to the act of 1793."
But after an intimation that § 720 did not apply, the
court added (p. 601):
"But, as before indicated, the legality of the writ of
injunction is not involved in this case. In our opinion
the state court, in overruling the plea of the defendants,
which set up the proceedings pending in the District Court,
and in ordering the cause to stand for trial; and again, on
the trial, in overruling as a defense the proceedings and decree of the District Court as set up in the amended answer,
disregarded the due effect, as well as the express provisions,
of the act of 1851, and therein committed error. It was
the duty of the court, as well when the proceedings pending in the District Court were pleaded and verified by
profert of the record, as when the decree of said court was
pleaded and proved, to have obeyed the injunction of the
act of Congress, which declared that 'all claims and proceedings shall cease."'
But it is contended that a salvage claim, such as the
one here involved is not a claim for "damages or injury
by collision" within the meaning of § 4283, Revised Statutes, and therefore not one to which the limited liability
act applies; that the damages there referred to are damages
by collision to other vessels and their cargo, and that the
expense of being towed to port is a claim like one for
repairs. It is also said that even if the vessel owners may
be able to include what they must pay for such a service
in the damages recoverable from the guilty vessel, it is
notwithstanding not a damage arising from collision within
the meaning of that section.
But we need not consider whether the claim is one
against the owner of the character described either in

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

223 U. S.

§ 4283 or the succeeding, §4284. Those sections have been
amended by the eighteenth section of the act of June 26,
1884 (23 Stat. 55, c. 121), so as to include "any and all
debts and liabilities" of the owner incurred on account
of the ship without his privity or fault. Richardson v.
Harmon, 222 U. S. 96.
The service was rendered to the res, benefiting alike
owner and creditors. The claim is, therefore, of a highly
meritorious character. But the question of preference in
payment out of the fund is one to be, determined in the
limited liability case. We, therefore, express no opinion
as to whether such a claim may be preferred or must share
pro rata with others.
The court below erred in proceeding to render a decree
after the pendency of the suit for a limitation of liability
was pleaded.
Decree reversed.
CUEBAS Y ARREDONDO v. CUEBAS Y ARREDONDO.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR PORTO RICO.

No. 159.

Submitted January 24, 1912.-Decided February 19, 1912.

Errors assigned_ s to finding of citizenship of a party dismissed from
the suit at instance of appellant are -not here for review except as
to the force and effect to be given to a decree pro confesso against
other defendants before dismissal of the bill.
Under the Foraker Act of April 12, 1900, 31 Stat. 85, c. 191, jurisdiction of the District Court of the United States was that of the
District and Circuit Courts of the United States; the additional
jurisdiction conferred by the act of March 2, 1901, 31 Stat. 953,
c. 812' did not extend the jurisdiction so as to embrace all controversies in which any litigant on either side is a citizen of the
United States or a subject of a foreign country.

