OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Counsel for Parties.

223 U. S.

CLASON v. MATKO.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
ARIZONA.

No. 178. Submitted February 26, 1912.-Decided March 11, 1912.
Where the statute provides for an agreed statement on which the case
can be submitted, a stipulation between the parties as to certain facts
will not be considered as an agreed statement superseding the
pleadings but only as an agreement relating to the facts enumerated
in the stipulation.
This court is not disposed to reverse a lower court on its construction
of a stipulation in the conduct of a case, even if the stipulation be
ambiguous.
While there may be a distinction between abandonment and forfeiture
of mining claims, there is no distinction as those terms are used in
§ 3241, Rev. Stat., of the Territory of Arizona.
That which is taken subject to a right cannot be a burden upon that
right.
Section 3241, Rev Stat., Arizona, was enacted pursuant to the power
given by § 2324, Rev. Stat. of the United States, and is not in conflict either with that section or with § 1857, Rev. Stat. of the United
States.
10 Arizona, 175, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the construction and constitutionality of the mining laws ol Arizona and the
validity of a mining location thereunder, are stated in the
opinion.

Mr. Edw. M. Cleary and Mr. Edw. J. Flanigan for appellant.
Mr. A. R. Serven and Mr. John McGowan for appellees.

CLASON v. MATKO.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Action to quiet title to a mining claim called the "Bangor." The action was brought in the District Court of
the First Judicial District, County of Pima, Arizona, by
appellees as plaintiffs against August Daley, Clason, appellant here, subsequently being made a party. It will
be convenient to refer to appellees as plaintiffs and, except where necessary to expressly distinguish appellant,
to include him with Daley under the designation of defendants.
The amended complaint alleged the location of the claim
byone Scott Turnerand therecording of the notice thereof,
a copy of which was annexed to the complaint. There
was an allegation of a claim of interest in the defendants,
and a prayer for judgment "establishing plaintiffs' estate
in and exclusive possession" of the claim and "debarring
and forever estopping defendants, and each of them, from
claiming any right or title" thereto.
The fourth amended answer of the defendants denied
the allegations of the complaint, except that Scott Turner
filed a notice of location, and alleged that the claim of the
plaintiffs had become forfeited on account of their failure
to do the necessary assessment work and that August
Daley entered upon and relocated the claim.
As a further defense it was alleged that the action had
been originally commenced against Daley as the sole defendant, and that in the first trial of the action a stipulation was entered into as follows:
"That all parties plaintiff and defendant are now and
at all the times mentioned in the pleadings have been
each citizens of the United States of America.
"That the, respective locations, upon which, as shown
by the pleadings herein, the parties plaintiff and defendant, base their rights to the 'Bangor' Mining Claim, were

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U.S.

each duly made, and that all acts required by the laws of
the United States, and the laws of the Territory of Arizona,
necessary to vest in the parties so locating good and valid
titles so far as valid location could vest the same, such as
mineral discovery, monumenting of claim, and recording
of location notices, etc., were each duly done and performed at the time of said locations, except that plaintiffs
do not admit that at the time of said location of defendant
Daley the ground was open to such location by reason
of failure to do assessment work for the years 1901 and
1902, or toresume work prior to the date of said location.'
The case 'went to trial, it is alleged, on the single issue
whether the claim was open to location, and resulted in a
judgment against- Daley. A new trial was granted, which
took place, and the agreement was recognized by counsel
and. the parties to be still in force and effect, and the same
issue was submitted to a jury as in the first trial to the
court, and a verdict and judgment went for defendant
Daley. The judgment was reversed by the Supreme
Court and the cause remanded for a new trial (10 Arizona,
175, 85 Pac. 'Rep. 721), the court saying (10 Arizona, 179):
Under the allegations in the defendant's crosscomplaint with respect to the relocation by the defendant
of the claim as a forfeited claim, the location notice of the
defendant would seem to be void, in failing to state that
the claim was located as forfeited or abandoned property,
as required by the statute, and would seem to afford the
defendant no ground for the relief claimed. Cunningham
v. Pirrung,9 Arizona, 288, 80 Pac. 329."
The defendants ever since the making and filing of the
agreement have relied on it as establishing the doing of
assessment work on the claims and the validity of the
claims. by reason thereof, the agreement never having
been rescinded or withdrawn.
As a further defense it was urged that the decision of
the Supreme Court of the Territory in Cunningham v.

CLASON v. MITKO.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Pirrung,in so far as it holds or construes paragraph 3241
of the Revised Statutes of Arizona (Revision of 1901),
as it existed prior to the amendment of 1907, to provide
that the relocation of a forfeited mining claim shall be
void or voidable when the relocation notice does not state
that the "whole or any part of the ground covered by
such relocation is relocated or located as forfeited ground,"
and that said statute, in so far as it justifies such interpretation, is contrary to the provisions of § 2324 of the
Revised Statutes of the United States in its general terms
and specifically to that portion thereof which provides
that upon failure to do assessment work therein required
such claim "shall be open to relocation in the same manner
as if no location of the same had ever been made," and
also contravenes the provisions of § 1851 of the Revised
Statutes of the United States, and the defendants specially
rely upon said provisions of the laws of the United States.
The defendants also filed a cross-complaint, which asserted title in them derived from a location of the claim,
a notice of which was attached.
The cross-complaint further alleged that the title of
the plaintiffs was derived from Scott Turner, but that
plaintiffs had no title by reason of the fact that the annual
assessment work had not been performed, that the ground
was open to relocation, that before work was resumed
Daley entered upon the land and duly located it as a
mining claim and performed all acts required to perfect
the location prior to any attempt of the plaintiffs to resume work thereon.. All of the separate defenses pleaded
were made part of the cross-complaint.
The location notice attached to the cross-complaint
did not state that the claim was located as forfeited or
abandoned property.
There was attached to the cross-complaint an amended
location notice signed by August Daley and Charles
Clason. It refers to the location by Daley and states

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

that such location was made as a relocation of forfeited
ground for the failure to do assessment work. It further
states that the amended notice of location was made,
without waiving any previous rights, to secure all of the
benefits of paragraph 3238 of the Revised Statutes of
Arizona (1901), and without waiving, but especially relying upon, the rights conferred upon Daley by his original
location by the laws of the United States. It also states
that Charles Clason was the owner of an undivided onehalf interest under Daley.
A demurrer was sustained to the cross-complaint, and,
defendants declining to amend, judgment was entered for
plaintiffs in accordance with the prayer of their complaint
upon the stipulation of facts which has been set out above.
The case was taken by Clason to the Supreme Court of
the Territory, where the judgment was affirmed.
The first question in the case is the effect of the stipulation. Appellant contends that all questions were "formally and expressly" admitted by it "pertaining to the
validity of the respective locations except the Single question, which was: Was the ground open to relocation on.
May 1, 1903, for plaintiffs' [appellees'] default in performing the work required by law? It covered, therefore, it is
further contended, all acts necessary to be done under the
laws of Arizona; that is, to come to the specific controversy in the case, the stipulation contained an admission
that the location notice complied with the laws of Arizona,
which necessarily includes compliance, it is contended,
"with section 3241 in any construction thereof."
The enumeration, it is urged, in the stipulation of certain acts cannot be considered "to have been intended to
be exhaustive, but merely illustrative of what the parties
considered necessary to make a valid location or relocation," and there was left open only the failure of plaintiffs
to do the assessment work. And this, it is insisted further,
was the construction of the parties through two trials,

CLASON v. MATKO.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and that its insufficiency is now urged in the face of that
fact and that defendants have expended money upon the
faith of the waiver of the defect in the location notice.
The trial court and the Supreme Court took a different
view of the stipulation and considered it as but a substitute for evidence, not waiving or supplying the defects of
the pleadings, and that, therefore, as the cross-complaint
contained no allegation of compliance with law, it was
insufficient. And both courts held further that the stipulation, as evidence, did not establish such compliance.
The Supreme Court explicitly, and the trial court impliedly, from its action in sustaining the demurrer to the
cross-complaint, took a different view of the stipulation
as indicated by the conduct of the parties. The "obvious purpose of the parties in filing the stipulation," the
Supreme Court said, "was manifestly to have it take the
place of testimony or other evidence upon the trial, and
not to supplant the pleadings in the case." The court
recognized that the parties could under the laws of the
Territory have agreed upon a statement of the case which
would have a substitute for formal pleadings, but, said
the court, "such was not the attempt in this case, as
appears from the stipulation itself and the conduct of the
parties in the proceedings subsequent to the entry of the
stipulation," both parties amending their pleadings after
the filing of the stipulation. The court concluded, therefore, that it was not an agreed case under paragraph 1390
of the Revised Statutes of the Territory, "but a stipulation appertaining merely to the matter of evidence upon
the trial."
The record seems to support this view. It is true that
it appears from the answer of the defendants that the
stipulation was filed before the trial of the action and that
the case was submitted and decided against defendants
on the single issue as to whether the claim was open to
relocation by Daley.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

A new trial was granted, upon what ground does not
appear. It does appear, however, that the case was again
submitted on the same issue, a judgment resulting for
Daley. It was reversed by the Supreme Court, the court
intimating that the defect in the cross-complaint in not
stating that the relocation by Daley was upon forfeited or
abandoned property, as required by the statute, would
seem to make the relocation void, and the intimation
was made to control or have effect in the new trial.which
was ordered. It was after this decision that the fourth
amended answer and cross-complaint were filed and the
demurrer which attacked the cross-complaint.
But if it be granted that the stipulation is ambiguous,
we should not be disposed to reverse the lower court on
its construction. It pertained simply-to- the conduct of
the trial and a dispute between counsel as to the effect of
an agreement between them, and its decision deprived the
defendants in the action of no right which they possessed.
We do not consider it necessary to review the cases cited
by appellant in which stipulations have been sustained
and the power of the parties recognized to. waive legal
or even constitutional rights.
The construction of the Supreme Court of § 3241 of
the Revised Statutes of the Territory is attacked. That
section required, before its amendment in 1907, that in
case of a relocation of a claim the location notice should
state if the whole or any part of the new location was
located as abandoned property, else it should be void.
The section is inserted in the margin.1
3241. (SEc. 11.) Such affidavit, when so recorded, shall be prima
facie evidence of the performance of such labor orthe making of such
improvements, and said original affidavit, after it has been recorded, or
a certified copy of record of same, or the record of same shall be received
as evidence accordingly by the courts of this territory. The relocation
of forfeited or abandoned lode claims shall only be made by sinking a
xew discovery shaft and fixing the boundary in the same manner and to

CLASON v. MATKO.
223 U. S.

653

Opinion of the Court.

The contention is that this section, properly considered,
applied only to "abandoned property" and did not apply
to forfeited property, and it is insisted that the distinction
between forfeited and abandoned property is well recognized and is "obliterated," by the court's construction.
Of course, there may be a distinction between the
abandonment of a claim and its forfeiture, but the question does not turn upon that distinction only, but upon
what the statute means, considering all of its words; and,
considering them all, we think they show quite clearly
that no distinction was intended. Section 3241 provides
for " the relocation of forfeited or abandoned lode claims "
-in other words, claims which have once been locatedand "the new locator's right is based upon the loss of the
possessory right acquired by the former locator," to quote
from Cunningham v.Pirrung,9 Arizona, 288 (80 Pac. Rep.
329), where the rule is announced. The same rule is repeated in subsequent cases, including that at bar. Score
v. Griffin, 9 Arizona, 295; Kinney v. Lundy, 11 Arizona, 75;
89 Pac. Rep. 496.
Even if we should concede that the statute is ambiguous,
we should certainly lean to agreement with the Supreme
Court of the Territory. Fox v. Haarstick, 156 U. S.674 ;
Armijo v. Armijo, 181 U. S. 558; English v. Arizona,
214 U. S.359; Santa Fe County v. Coler, 215 U. S.296, 305;
Albright v. Sandoval, 216 U. S.331.
The next contention of appellant is that if the statute
admits of the construction put upon it by the Supreme
the same extent as is required in making an original location; or the
relocator may sink the original discovery. shaft ten feet deeper than it
was at the date of the commencement of such location, and shall erect
new or make the old monuments the same as originally required. In
either case a new location monument shall be erected, and the location
notice shall state if the whole or any part of the new location is located
.as abandoned property, else it shall be void. (Rev. Stat. Ariz., 1901,
Tit. 47, p. 839.)

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

Court of the Territory it is unconstitutional and in conflict
with §§ 1857 and 2324 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States.
Upon what ground the statute is unconstitutional is
not stated, and we can put that objection aside and pass
to the asserted conflict with the Revised Statutes of the
United States. It is only necessary to consider § 2324.
Section 1857 expresses a general limitation of the powers
of the Territory by the Constitution and laws of the
United States. The other section directly concerns locations of mining ground.
The section permits the miners to make regulations
in regard to mining locations not in conflict with the
laws of the United States or of the State or Territory in
which the mining district is situated, "governing the loca.
. subject to the following requirements: On
tion,
each claim located after the tenth day of May, eighteen
hundred and seventy-two, and until a patent has been issued therefor, not less than one hundred dollars' worth of
work shall be performed or improvements made during
each year, . . . and upon a failure to comply with
these conditions, the claim or mine upon which such failure occurred shall be open to relocation in the same
manner as if no location of the same had ever been made."
Appellant contends "that the spirit and intention of
this enactment" is that upon the failure of the original
locator to comply with the provisions of the law "the
ground is open to relocation in the same manner as if
no location had ever been made," and that, therefore,
neither a State nor a Territory can impose conditions or
burdens upon the exercise of the right.
That cannot be said to be a burden upon a right to
which the right when taken is subject. The section gives
to the miners of a mining district and the State or Territory in which the district is situated the power to make
regulations "governing the location" of a mining claim,

CEDAR RAPIDS GAS CO. v. CEDAR RAPIDS. 655
223 U. S.

Syllabus.

subject to certain requirements. Those requirements may
not be dispensed with, but they may be supplemented,
-certainly to the extent (and we need go no farther in this
case) prescribed by the Arizona statute. It is a provision
strictly "governing the location," and is not repugnant
either to the spirit or the letter of the mining laws of the
United States. Butte City Water Co. v. Baker, 196 U. S.
119.
Judgment affirmed.

CEDAR RAPIDS GAS LIGHT COMPANY v. CITY
OF CEDAR RAPIDS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IOWA.
No. 163.

Argued February 29, 1912.-Decided March 11, 1912.

Where the general power reserved to regulate rates is only limited by
the Fourteenth Amendment, no franchise contract will be presumed
to imply that the municipality under its reserved right to regulate
rates must only reduce them to such a point that there will be a
margin to allow a discount for prompt payment.
A municipal ordingnce drawn in form of a contract to be accepted by
the franchisee, when accepted becomes a contract and is subject to
the reserved powers of the municipality as limited by the laws of
the State.
The practice and decisions of this court are that § 709 Rev. Stat.
does not give to a writ of error to the state court in a chancery case
the effect of an appeal from a judgment in such a case in the Federal courts and open the evidence for redxamination in this court.
Findings of the state court in cases either at law or in equity may depend upon questions that are redxaminable in this court, which, if
properly saved, must be answered; and this court may examine the
evidence in so far as necessary to do so in respect to rulings within
the appellate jurisdiction of this court. KansasCity Southern Railway
v. Albers Comnmission Co., ante, p. 573.
Quwre: Whether a legislative rate, not in itself too low, is confiscatory

