LINCOLN GAS CO. v. LINCOLN.
223 U. S.

Syllabus.

LINCOLN GAS AND ELECTRIC LIGHT CO. v.
CITY OF LINCOLN.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE- DISTRICT O9 NEBRASKA.

No. 83.

Argued December 6, 7, 111.-Decided February 19, 1912.

Every legislative rate case. presents three questions of prime importance: reasonable value of the plant; probable effect of the reduced
rate upon future net income; deductions from gross receipts as a
fund to preserve plant from depreciation.
A legislative rate for a public service corporation is presumed to be
sufficient to produce a fair return on the plant, and the burden of
showing that it is confiscatory rests upon those attacking it.
A public service c6rporation is entitled to a fair return upon the fair
value of the plant at the time of the inquiry as to reasonableness of
rates imposed, San Diego Land & Town Co. v. Jasper, 189 U. S. 439;
but in this case not decided what such a rate would be on a gas and
electric plant in Nebraska.
Where a legislative rate contest involves ascertainment by testimony
of experts and auditors of valuation of plant, capitalization, gross
receipts, net earnings, depreciation and other elements, the proper
practice is to refer the case at the outset to a skilled master, upon
whose report specific errors can be assigned and ruled upon. Chicago,
Milwaukee & St. Paul Railway v. Tompkins, 176 U. S. 167. '
What sum should be annually deducted from gross or net receipts of
a public service corporation for depreciation and replacement and
how it should be applied, are novel and grave problems, and, in the
absence of a full report as to every element involved, this court is
not justified in passing upon them.
The operation of an ordinance establishing a rate for gas will not be
enjoined unless complainant enters into a bond to account to consumers for all overcharges in case the ordinance is eventually sustained.
THE facts, which involve the validity of an ordinance of
the City of Lincoln, Nebraska, regulating charges for
gas furnished to consumers, are stated in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Appellant.

223 U. S.

Mr. Halleck F. Rose, with whom Mr. CharlesA. Frueauff,
Mr. Edmund C. Strobe and Mr. John F. Stout were on the
brief, for appellant:
Any deprivation of the right of a public utility company to a reasonable return upon the value of its property
devoted to the. public service, accomplished by legislative
adoption of inadequate rates, is a deprivation of property
without due process of law, and a confiscation thereof to
the public use without just compensation, and a denial
of the equal protection of the laws, in violation of the
Fourteenth Amendment. Chicago, M. & St. P. R. Co. v.
Minnesota, 134U. S. 418; Reagan v. Farmers' L. & T.
Co., 154 U. S. 362; Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466; San
Diego L. & T. Co. v. National City, 174 U. S. 739; Chicago,
M. & St. P. R. Co. v. Tompkins, 176 U. S. 167; Minneapplis & St. L. R.; Co. v. Minnesota, 186 U. S. 257;
Atlantic Coasi Line v. North Carolina Corp. Com., 206
U. S. 1.
Appellant's case as made by the- proofs, ought not to
be prejudiced by the circumstances that it sought injunctive relief in the first instance, without submitting to the
confiscatory rates. Willcox v. Consolidated Gas Co., 212
U. S. 40.
The inviolability of property, under the rule of the
Constitution, prohibits establishment of gas rates in
Lincoln, Nebraska, at a rate so low as to deprive the
capital employed in that service of a smaller rate of earning than eight per cent. Willcox v. Consolidated Gas Co:,
212 U. S. 40, 51; State Journal PrintingCo. v. Madison Gas
& Electric Co., 4 Wis. R. C. R. 464.
As to what is a reasonable rate of net earnings, see
Water Co. v. Des Moines, September 16, 1911, 192 Fed.'
Rep. 193; Havelock v.,Lincoln Traction Co., May 17,1911
(see Report Nebraska State Railway Commission for
1911), both holding that where the rate of interest on
fixed. interest-bearing securities in any given locality is

LINCOLN GAS CO. v. LINCOLN.
223 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

five per cent., a maximum return to the investors in elec-

tric railways Would not be unreasonable or excessive at
eight, per cent.
The prevailing rates of interest in the community
where the enterprise is executed cannot be wholly ignored.,
While the court has not committed itself to the doctrine
that earnings may not be reduced, in any case, below the
legal rate, there is reason and authority for the contention
that the fair return required by the Constitution must
not be less than the legal rate of interest. Brymer v. Butler
Water Co., 179 Pa. St. 251; Pa. R. Co. v. Philadelphia
County, 220 Pa. St. 115; Chicago Union Traction Co. v.
Board of Equalization, 114 Fed. Rep. 561; Louisville &
N. R. Co. v. Brown, 123 Fed. Rep. 951; Central R. Co.
v. R. Com., 161 Fed. Rep. 925; Milwaukee Electric R: &
L. Co. v. Milwaukee, 87 Fed. Rep. 585; Southern P. Co. v.
Railroad Commissioners, 78 Fed. Rep. 261; People v.
Tax Commissioner, 12 N. Y. Supp. 392, Spring Valley
Water Works v. San Francisco,124 Fed. Rep. 598.
That appellant's stocks and, bonds are in excess of the
cost of the plant is shown not to have added to the cost
of the service, nor increased the cost of operation and

maintenance.
In practical operation, the gas service furnished by
appellant is necessarily burdened with an annual depreciation charge, .exceeding $20,000. Appellant is not compensated for this necessary cost of the service under the
dollar rate; and the consequent burden upon appellant's
general revenues, from this cause, was not accounted for
in the opinion and decree of the Circuit Court.
Employment of the sinking fund method of computing
depreciation, whereby the public appropriates the earnings
accumulated at compound interest on each item of annual
depreciation during the life term of the equipment, is
neither lawful nor compatible with the system of valuing
the whole property for revenue purposes at its depre-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Appellant.

223 U. S.

ciated value. Knoxville v. Knoxville Water Co., 212 U. S.
13; Willcox v. Consolidated Gas Co., 212 U. S. 52.
The reduction of appellant's revenues by the municipal
regulations. adopted, and the occupation taxes levied, in
1906, was, on its face, so radical and destructive, in view
of appellant's past experience, that appellant could not
accommodate its business thereto. Insolvency or resistance of further rate reductions were its only alternatives.
The issue is whether the ordinance requiring the dollar
rate to become effective December 1, 1906, is valid; not
whether the lapse of time would develop conditions justifying that rate at some future date, but whether its enforcement at the time it was assailed by the bill and arrested
by injunction would have operated to confiscate the whole
or a part of appellant's fair and just capital earnings.
The valuation of $566,073.59 on which the Circuit
Court found appellant was entitled to a reasonable return,
is much less than the actual capital employed in its gas
service, as shown by the proofs.
There should be included in the valuation portion of
appellant's capital represented by the use of or interest
on money expended in construction of its plant during
the period of building, and until it was possible to put it
on some reasonable revenue basis to enable the plant to
carry its own interest or an equivalent capital earning
burden. The interest, or charge for use of the capital, is
incident to and a part of the cost of construction. If not.
allowed in the construction account, it is wholly lost to

the investor.

Brunswick District v. Maine Water Co.,

99 Maine, 371; Shepard v. Northern Pac. Ry. Co., 184
Fed. Rep. 809.
Some substantial sum should be allowed as a capital
investment for franchise rights, or "going value," or both.
The items of franchise and going value both represent
legitimate subjects for investment of the primary capital.

Monongahela Nay. Co. v. United States, 148 U. S. 311, 345;

LINCOLN GAS CO. v. LINCOLN.
223 U. S.

353

Argument for Appellees.

Waierworks v. Kansas City, 62 Fed. Rep. 853; Omaha v.
Omaha Water Co., 218 U. S. 202.
If capital valuations be tested by actual experience in
construction, or by the purchase price paid by the present
owner, the sum stated in the opinion of the lower court
must be greatly increased. Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 546,
547.
The validity of that part of the decree which arrests
the operation of the occupation tax ordinance, so far as
questioned by the city on jurisdictional grounds, should
be determined on this appeal.
Mr. Fred C. Foster and Mr. W. M. Morning for appellees:
The fixing of rates to be charged by public service
corporations is a legislative act, whether the rate is fixed
by direct act of the legislature, or by a subordinate body
or board exercising delegated authority. Knoxville v.
Water Co., 212 U. S. 1; McChord v. Louisville & N. R.
Co., 183 U. S. 483; Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466; Atlantic
Coast Line v. Nor. Car. Corp. Com., 206 U. S, 1; Saratoga
Springs v. Saratoga Gas Co., 191 N. Y. 123; Reagan v.
Farmers' L. & T. Co., 154 U. S. 362, 395; Knoxville v.
Water Co., 212 U. S. 1; Willcox V. ConsolidatedGas Co.,
212 U. S. 19.
The rate fixed by this ordinance not having been put
to a practical test, but having been suspended by this
injunction, .the ordinance will be upheld- unless the case
is one leaving no just or fair doubt that the rate, if enforced, would be confiscatory. Cases supra, and San
Diego Land Co. v. National City, 174 U. S. 739; San Diego
Land Co. v. Jasper, 189 U. S. 439. That is not this case.
In an investigation of the legality of maximum rates
fixed by law, to be charged by public service corporations,
two principal questions are to be considered: The present
reasonable value of the property or plant devoted by the
voL. ccxxlii-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Appellees.

223 U. S.

corporation to the public service; the net earnings probably arising under the new rate established. The new
rate permits the net earnings of the corporation which
would probably arise from the operation of its business
after deducting necessary and reasonable charges and
expenses to be a fair return upon the value of that which
it employs for the public convenience. Cases supra and
Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466; Grain Shippers v. Railroad Co., 8 I. C. C. Rep. 158; Steenerson v. Great Northern
Ry. Co., 69 Minnesota, 353; Danville v. Southern Ry. Co.,
8 I. C. C. Rep. 409; Redlands &c. Co. v. Redlands, 121
California, 365; American Asphalt Assn. v. Uintah Ry.
Co., 13 I. C. C. Rep. 207.
In estimating the present reasonable value of appellant's property devoted to the public service in the operation of its gas business, from whatever standpoint it is
discussed, it cannot exceed the amount found below.
It is the duty of a public service corporation to provide
a reconstruction fund to take care of new construction
and all permanent improvements, and these should not
be charged to operating expenses. il. Cent. R. Co. v. Int.
Com. Comm., 206 U. S. 441; Wyman, Pub. Service Corp.,
§ 1163.
Where items of this character have been paid for from
current receipts and charged to operating expense, they
should be excluded from consideration in estimating the
value of the property upon which the company is entitled to earn dividends, or excluded from the operating
expenses of a single year. San Diego Water Co. v. San
Diego, 118 California, 556, 574; Ill. Cent. R. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Com., 206 U. S. 441.
No part of a depreciation fund, accumulated by a public
service corporation from its receipts, can be added to
the capital upon which it is entitled to earn dividends,
and where this has been done the burden is on the company to show to what extent it has been done, in order

LINCOLN GAS CO. v. LINCOLN.
223 U. S.

-Argumeut for Appellees.

that it may be segregated in a rate investigation. Water
Co. v. Knoxville, supra; Louisiana Railroad Comm. v.
'CumberlandT. & T. Co.,' 212 U. S. 414.,
Capitalization affords no evidence of present value.
Knoxville v. Water Co., '12 U. S. 1; Smyth v. Ames, 169
U. S. 466; San Diego ,ater Co. V. San Diego, 118 California, 556; Water Co. v. Redland. (Cal.),' 53 Pac. Rep.
843; Southern Pac. Co. v. Bartine, 170 Fed. Rep. 725, 751;
San Diego L. & T."Co. v. Jasper, 189 U. S.439.
The income of the year succeeding the passage of the
ordinance is proper to be 'considered, even though the
ordinance has not been put into effect. Water, Co. v.
Knoxville, 212 U. S. 1, 14.
The value of the franchise should not be included'.f
Willcox v. Ga Co., 212 U. S. 19, distinguished; Wyman on
Public Service Corporations, § 1104.
In this case there is no evidence of franchise value.
Before, a public service corporation can successfully
attack a legislative rate as confiscatory, it must show that'
the effect of the operation of the rate will so reduce the
earnings from its entire business as to deprive it of a reasonable return upon the value of its entire property used
in the public service. St. Louis R. R. Co. v. Gill, 156
U. S. 649; People ex rel. v. Alton Ry., 176 Illinois, 512;
Delaware St. Grange v. N. Y. Ry. Co., 3 I. C. C.,Rep. 554;
Wilkesbarre v. Spring-Brook, 4 Lack. Leg. News. 367;
Steenerson v. Great Northern, 69 Minnesota, 353; M. & S.
R. Co. v. Minnesota, 186 U. S. 257; St. John v. Railway,
22 Wallace, 136; So. Pac. Ry. v. Railroad Co., 78 Fed. Rep.
236; Atlantic Coast Line v. Nor. Car. Corp., 206 U. S.1.
The' burden of proof is on the corporation to show
proper apportionment, and the right to segregate the two
departments of the corporation (if it exists at all) so as
to enable complainant to withdraw from this investigation
all of the property and earnings of the electrical department, imposes the, burden upon the company to make

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

full and detailed disclosure of the facts necessary to enable
the court to intelligently determine that apportionment.
Grand Trunk Ry. Co. v. Wellman, 143 U. S. 339, 345;
State v. Adams Express Co. (Neb.), 122 N. W. Rep. 691;
Steenerson v. Great Northern, 69 Minnesota, 353.
A sufficient showing must be made by a public service
company when it assails a rate as confiscatory, that it
cuts down its net income below the point of reasonable
compensation. Cases supra.
In Willcox v. Gas Co., supra, this court recognized the
strong probability that the earnings would increase under
the reduced rate as a factor to be considered.
Rates may be unreasonable and yet not confiscatory.
RailroadCommission v. Cumberland T. & T. Co., 212 U. S.
414, 420; San Diego Land Co. v. Jasper, 189 U. S. 439;
4outhern Pac. v. Bartine, 170 Fed. Rep. 727.
The court will not concern itself with the matter of
'alleged discrimination between customers, nor as to
whether the new rate might operate to require some customers to be carried at a loss, so long as the rate will yield
a reasonable rate of return on the entire business. Willcox
v. Gas Co., 212 U. S. 19; Nor. Pac. R. Co. v. North Dakota,
216 U. S. 273; St. Louis R. R. Co. v. Gill, 156 U. S. 649;
People ex rel. v. Alton Ry., 176 Illinois, 512; and other
cases, supra.
MR. JUSTICE LURTON

delivered the opinion of the

court.
This case involves the validity of an ordinance regulating the appellant's charges for gas furnished to consumers,
and forbidding a charge in excess of one dollar per thousand
feet. The bill assailed the rate as confiscatory, and, therefore, a taking of property without compensation. The
ordinance rests upon legislative power to regulate the
charges of such public service companies.

LINCOLN GAS CO. v. LINCOLN.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The sufficiency of the price prescribed to produce a
fair profit upon the value of the property employed in the
business is to be strongly presumed. The burden of
showing its confiscatory character rests, therefore, upon
the complaining company.
The court below, upon a final hearing, held that the
appellant had not made out its case and dismissed the
bill, with leave to renew the litigation, if, upon actual'
operation under the ordinance, the returns upon its business should not prove reasonably remunerative.. The
ordinance was never put in force. Within a few days
after it went into effect this bill was filed and an injunction, pendente lite, granted, which was continued in force
down to the final decree, and when this appeal was allowed,
was, by order of the court allowing it, continued pending_
the appeal, under a bond conditioned to account for all
over-charges if the ordinance should be sustained.
The case was not referred to a master, as is the usual
course in such cases, although there was a great mass of
conflicting evidence relating to the value of the plant,
cost of operation and gross and net income. Neither
did the court make specific findings of fact to which
specific objection could be made. Such facts as may be
said to constitute "findings of fact" appear in the way of,
large conclusions in the course of the opinion found in the
record.
In this, as in every other legislative rate case, there are
presented three questions of prime importance: First,
the present reasonable value of the company's plant engaged in the regulated business; second, what will be the
probable effect of the reduced rate upon the future net.
income from the property engaged in serving the public;
and, third, in ascertaining the probable net income under
the reduced rates pxescribed, what deduction, if any,
should be made from the gross receipts as a fund to preserve the property from future depreciation.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

The valuation fixed by the court is the main point of attack. That the company is entitled to a fair return upon
the valTre of the property at the time of the inquiry, is

the rule. San Diego Land & Town Co. v. Jasper, 189
U. S. 439, 442.
The court, as one means of finding the present value
of the gas-making plant, found that thepresent cost of
replacing it would. be $566,073.59. The items which
enter into this valuation, and the reason for reaching
this result, as stated in the opinion, are shown by the
paragraphs here set out:
"In determining fox what amount the plant could
be reconstructed, I have accepted in the main the testimony of complainant's- withnesses as being the most
satisfactory, and -I find that-the plant could be reconStucted for the following sums :
Coal gas apparatus ...........

$80,605 00

29,278 00
Water gas apparatus........ ....
Mains-in dirt streets ... .......... 90,578 00
130,027 00
Mains in paved streets ..........
Gas services, etc..

.

......... 107,106 82

....... 36,282 90
Gas meters in use.. .....
Meter connections............... 6,304 00
.. 16,500 00
Piping for gas ranges..... .....
$496,681
12,417
Engineering expenses (22%)......
Real estate...................... 4,000
Present value of buildings ......... 24,643
Contingent expenses in construction 25,000
3,000
Cost of organizing company .......

72
04
00
00
00
00

$565,741 76
"While the evidence as to the *depreciation is somewhat vague and- indefinite, I think, upon the items ag-

LINCOLN GAS CO. v. LINCOLN.
223 V. S.

Opinion of the Court.

gregating said $496,681.72, there should be deducted
for depreciation 10 per cent, amounting to the sum of
$49,668.17, making the total present valuation of the
plant $516,073.59; but it is apparent that, for the successful and economical operation of the plant, a certain
amount of working capital is required. This amount I
find to be $50,000, making the total value of complainant's investment, upon which it is entitled to a reasonable
return, $566,073.59.
"While it is true that the testimony shows that the
complainant has not such working capital but has purchased upon credit the supplies necessary to operate,
yet I think that, in determining what is a reasonable
compensation, a working capital should be considered."
But the appellant does not accept the valuation thus
fixed. It contends that there should be added to that the
following:
$2,225 00
Steam-boiler for water gas......
Under-estimate of present value of
buildings..............
10,000
10,000
Under-estimate of working capital..
Under-estimate of meter connections
6,102
Under-estimate contingent expense
of construction. ............
37,500 00
Interest on idle capital during construction.
................
40,000 00
Promotion of business, or going value
and franchise, as elements in replacement value............
100,000 00

Add court's valuation ............

205,852 00
566,073 59
771,925 59

The appellee, on the other hand, in support of the gen-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

eral decree dismissing the bill, joins issue upon each of
these items, and insists that if the court shall see fit to
go into the evidence, it will find that the plant has been
greatly over-valued. It particularly objects to the large
item of $107,000 for gas service, and to the item of $50,000
added to the value of the property as "working capital,"
and says that the incorrectness of this is seen in the admission that the appellant has in fact no such working
capital engaged in the business. Appellee further contends that the "expense of operation" in 1907 includes
reconstruction or replacement work, and that such items
enlarge the operating expenses of that year unduly and
correspondingly reduce the net income. If the expense
of operating the plant for that year is to be accepted as
the standard by which the operating expenses of future
years are to be estimated, the objection is serious if the
facts are as claimed.
The appellant further claims that the sum of $8,000
deducted from the net income, as a permanent protection
against future depreciation in the value of the plant,
is too small, and should be much larger. Upon this
there was conflicting expert testimony. Upon all of these
questions of valuation and of operating expense there is
much evidence, and much of it conflicting. The findings
of the court, as before stated, are of too comprehensive
a character to be of much help in dealing with the details
which are embraced.
But it is urged that even upon the valuation fixed by
the court the estimated future net income will be little
over five per cent., and, in consideration of the character
of the property and the high average interest rate prevailing in Nebraska, this is not a reasonable or fair return and demonstrates the confiscatory character of the
ordinance. But if the $8,000 first deducted from the receipts and laid aside as a permanent fund to meet future
depreciation be taken into account, the estimated future

LINCOLN GAS CO. v. LINCOLN.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

net income-with the rate in force will exceed six per
cent.
Nor did the Circuit Court hold that a net profit of five
and two-tenths per cent. would be a fair and reasonable
return upon the value of the property employed. What
the court found was, in substance, that at least an income of that amount was certain, aside from the amount
reserved for a permanent preservation fund. What the
court said was this:
"While complainant, I think, is entitled to at least
six per cent. upon the money invested, it does not appear
that the reduced rate would not yield that sum. It is
quite probable that the reduced rate would considerably
increase the consumption of gas and thus increase the
complainant's net profits.
"The record shows that in June, 1904, complainant
voluntarily reduced its rates from approximately $1.50
per thousand to $1.20, and the amount of gas consumed,
and net profits resulting, considerably increased. The
inquiry in cases of this character is not alone what has
complainant theretofore earned but it is what will be
the effect of the ordinance reducing the rate upon the
future net earnings of the company, and it devolves
upon complainant to show not that the past rates have
not produced a reasonable return but that the rate prescribed by the ordinance will not in future produce a
reasonable return."
This case is full of difficult and grave questions. Such
conclusions as to facts as are found in the court's opinion
are not helpful when, as here, errors- are assigned which
open. up substantially the whole case. The cause should
have gone at the beginning to a skilled master, upon whose
report specific errors could have been assigned and a
ruling from the court obtained.
In the case of Chicago, M. &c. Ry. v. Tompkins, 176
U. S. 167, 179, 180, this court was called upon to review

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 V. S.

a decree upholding a state-made railroad rate which
had been unsuccessfully attacked as confiscatory. In that
case, as in this, the matter had not been referred to a
master, but had been decided by the Circuit, Court upon
the whole of the evidence. It came to this court upon
such a variety of questions of fact and law as to practically
open up the whole case. Impressed with the seriousness
of the questions involved this court remanded the case
for a reference and report by a skilled master. As to this
practice, this court said:
"The.question then arises what disposition of the case
shall this court make. 'Ought we to examine the testimony, find the facts, and from those facts, deduce the
proper conclusion?
"It would doubtless be within the competency of this
court on an appeal in equity to do this, but we are constrained to think that it would not (particularly in a case
like the present) be the proper course to pursue. This is
an appellate court, and parties have a right to a determination of the facts in the first instance by the trial court.
Doubtless if such determination is challenged on appeal
it becomes our duty to examine the testimony and see
if it sustains the findings, but if the facts found are not
challenged by either party then this court need not go beyond its ordinary appellate duty of considering whether
such facts justified the decree. We think this is one of
those cases in which it is especially important that there
should be a full and clear finding of the facts by the trial
court. The questions are difficult, the interests are vast,
and therefore the aid of the trial court should be
had. . ... We are of opinion that a better practice
is to refer the testimony to some competent master,
to make all needed computations, and find fully the facts.
It is hardly necessary to observe that in view of the
difficulties and importance of such a case it is imperative
that the most competent and reliable master, general

LINCOLN GAS CO. v. LINCOLN.
223 3. S.

Opinion of the Court.

or special, should be selected, for it is not a light matter
to interfere witl the legislation of a State in respect to the
prescribing of rates, nor a light matter to permit such

legislation to wreck large property interests."
The question as to what sum, if any, upon the facts
of this case should be annually deducted from the net
income as a permanent maintenance or replacement
fund, is novel and presents a grave problem.
Conflicting expert evidence has been introduced presenting radically different theories as to the necessity, character
and amount of such a fund, and as to how it should be
created, preserved and expended. Some of this evidence
puts the sum to be annually deducted and set aside as
a permanent fund at five per cent. upon the value of the
plant at the time of deduction. It is obvious that if this
view is sound there will be little or nothing of the net income left for distribution among shareholders, and no
basis for legislative rate reduction now, and none likely
until such time as the income from the permanent fund
will keep up the plant. The work of reconstructing and
replacing old parts by new in a plant of this kind must,
in the very nature of things, be going on constantly.
Heretofore it seems to have been so well and continuously
done that the value of the plant as a whole has suffered
less than one per cent. per annum if the total depreciation
be distributed through the more than thirty years of
operation. So far as can be now seen, reconstruction and
replacement charges have, up to the present time, been
borne by current revenue, with the result that the revenue
remaining in the single year of 1907 showed a net surplus
of $73,851.83, a sum large enough, if distributed to shareholders upon the basis of the value of property engaged
in the business as claimed by appellant, to have paid a
dividend of 'ten per cent., and about fifteen per cent.
upon the valuation settled by the Circuit Court.
There is no finding as to the extent of the application

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

of the revenue of 1907 to reconstruction or replacement,
as distinguished from current repairs and operating expenses. It is, however, plainly inferable that the revenue
of that year was used to the extent necessary. If, in the
past, reconstruction and replacement charges have been
met out of current expenses, the fact must be taken into
consideration, both when we come to estimating future
net income and in determining what sum shall ,be annually
set aside to guard against future depreciation. This
doubtless influenced the court below in settling upon the
amount of $8,000 as a sufficient annual appropriation of
income as insurance against future. depreciation. But
if the constantly recurring necessity to do reconstruction
or replacement work was in 1907 met out of the current
income of that year, thereby diminishing the net income,
the fact should be given weight in estimating future net
income; otherwise there will be a double deduction on
that account, first, by paying such charges as they occur,
and thereafter by a contribution out of the remaining
income for the same object.
The facts found are not full enough to at all justify this
court in dealing with this problem of a replacement fund.
There should be a full report upon past depreciation,
past expense for reconstruction or replacement, and past
operating expenses, including current repairs. We should
be advised as to the gross receipts for recent years, and
just how these receipts have been expended. Then the
amount to be set aside for future depreciation will depend upon the character and probable life of the property
and the method adopted in the past to preserve the property. It can be readily seen that the amount to be annually set aside may be such as. to forbid rate reductions
because of the requirement of such a fund. The matter
is one first for a skilled master, who should make a full
report upon the value of the property, the receipts and
the expenses of operation and the sums paid out on re-

THE SAN PEDRO.
223 U. S.

Syllabus.

construction and replacements, and in cividends in recent years.
For the reasons indicated, we direct that the decree be
Reversed, and the cause remanded to the District.Court
to refer the case to a competent and skilled master,
to report fully his findings upon all of the questions
raised by either party, separately, and with leave to
both parties to take any additional evidence they may
wish within a time to be fixed by the court, and that that
court upon such report proceed as equity shall require.
It is further ordered for the protection of all parties that
the injunction granted in the court below continue in
force until final decree there, upon condition that the
appellant enter into a new bond, with sureties satisfactory to the court below, to account for all overcharges
to consumers since the original restrainingorder in the
event the ordinance shall be sustained, and that if such
bond be not made within twenty days after the filing
of the mandate that the injunction stand dissolved.

THE SAN PEDRO. 1
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 155. Submitted December 22, 1911.-Decided February 19, 1912.
The manifest object of the fifty-fourth rule in admiralty cannot be
defeated solely because its enforcement might involve expense,
delay or inconvenience.
The limited liability proceedings under §§ 4283 et seq., Rev. Stat., is
Docket title: Metropolitan Redwood Lumber Co., Claimant of
the Steamer "San Pedro," Appellant, v. Charles P. Doe, Owner of the
American Steamer "George W. Elder," et al.

