OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

223 U. S.

It follows, therefore, that the Circuit Court of Appeals
had authority to make a ruling which finally disposed of
the case; that the complainant then had the right to ask
it to certify the question of jurisdiction, and if that was
refused, might have applied to this court for a writ of
certiorari. Having failed successfully to prosecute these
remedies, the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals
remained conclusive upon the parties and binding upon
the Circuit Court and every other court to which the
case could by any possibility be taken. For these reasons,
the question as to whether there was a suit which was
removable cannot be considered and the appeal must be
Dismissed.

UNITED STATES v. ELLICOTT.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 85.

Argued December 7, 8, 1911.-Decided February 26, 1912.

The general rule governing appeals is applicable to appeals from the
Court of Claims.
A judgment is not generally treated as final until a motion for new
trial or rehearing, which has been entertained by the court, has been
disposed of; in such a case the time for appeal runs from the date of
such disposition. Kingman v. Western Manufacturing Co., 170 U. S.
675.
When there is an irreconcilable conflict between essential provisions
of a contract for building and the specifications, and the latter cannot
be ignored, the contract is void for uncertainty and unenforceable.
Where a bid has been accepted for government work after the advertisement necessary to give it validity, and the final contract contains specifications materially lessening the work and at variance
with the terms of the contract as advertised, the contractor cannot
recover damages because the Government abrogates the contract;

UNITED STATES v. ELLICOTT.
223 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

if the specifications are not binding on the Government, the contractor has no basis for recovery, ,and if they are binding the contract varies from the one advertised for and has no validity; and so
held as to a bid for barges for the Panama Canal Commission.
44 Ct. Cl. 127, and 45 Ct. Cl. 469, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the construction of a con-

tract for dredges for the Papaama Canal and the liability
of the United States for damages for abrogation of the
same, are stated in the opinion.
The Solicitor General, with whom Mr. Barton Corneau
was on the brief, for the United States:
This appeal was prayed in apt time.
The entry and entertainment of the motion for a new
trial suspended the judgment itself, and not merely the
running of the limitation as to appeals. The effect of the
motion was to make the judgment a mere order nisi, not
only from the time the motion was entered, but from the
date of the judgment itself. The entertainment of such
a motion relates back to the date of the rendition of the
judgment.
In Brockett v. Brockett, 2 How. 238; Memphis v. Brown,
94 U. S. 715; Aspen Mining & Smelting Co. v. Billings,
150 U. S. 31; Voorhees v. Noye Mfg. Co., 151 U. S. 135;
Kingman v. Western ManufacturingCo., 170 U. S. 675, 680,
681, a final judgment, and not merely a verdict, had been
rendered, so that the appellee's suggestion that a special
rule applies in the case of appeals from judgments of the
Court of Claims, because the motion for a new trial is
not made in such court until after final judgment, is without merit.
The writing executed by the parties expresses with
seeming clearness an agreement for the construction of
barges of th6 dimensions shown on the plan, but of materials of the size, weight, and character prescribed by
the specifications; and the fact that such construction

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for the United States.

223 U. S.

would require barges of greater weight than was noted
on the plan should not be permitted to alter the plain
meaning of the language used. Uarrison v. United States,
7 Wall: 688.
When the terms of a promise admit of more senses
than one, the promise is 'to be performed in that sense in.
which the promisor apprehended at the time the promisee
received: such is the established rule at law, as well as in
morals. White v.Hoyt, 73 N. Y. 505, 511.
The construction here urged is necessary to sustain
the validity of the instrument, for either that construction or the one urged by appellee must be adopted if the
instrument is to be given any meaning at all; and if the
latter construction (that is, the one urged by appellee)
should be adopted, the instrument would be void because
the Commission would have had no power to make such
a contract.
At most the impossibility of constructing a barge of
the proposed dimensions and specified materials without
exceeding the weight noted on the plan only renders the
meaning of the writing ambiguous and imposes on the
court the duty to ascertain by extrinsic evidence the true
intent of the parties. Accordingly, the Court of Claims
erred in holding as a matter of law that it was immaterial
in this case whether or not the evidence showed that the
minds of the parties never met. Walker v. Tucker, 70
Illinois, 527, 532; C. & 0. Canal Co. v. Hill, 15 Wall. 94;
Moran v. Prather, 23 Wall. 492; Reed v. Insurance Co.,
95 U. S. 23.
If the instrument must be construed as evidencing an
agreement, to construct the barges of lighter and smaller
materials than those specified, it is absolutely void, because the-Canal Commissioners had no authority to make
a contract for the construction of a barge which did not
conform, at least substantially, with the specifications as
to the weight and size of materials. See § 3709, Rev. Stat.;

UNITED STATES v. ELLICOTT.
223 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

Act creating the Isthmian Canal Commission, § 7, 32
Stat. 481; Joint resolution approved June 25, 1906.
This case does not fall within the exceptions to any
of the foregoing declarations of the rule requiring the letting of contracts of the present sort only after competitive
bidding. Dist. of Col. v. Bailey, 171 U. S. 161; McMullen
v. Hoffman, 174 U. S.639;. Whitney v. Hudson, 69 Michigan, 189; Nash v. St. Pauli 11 Minnesota, 174; Overshiner v. Jones, 66 Indiana, 452; Wickwire v. Elkhart,
144 Indiana, 305; People v. Board of Improvement, 43
N. Y. 227; People v. Van Nort,65 Barb. 331.
Garfield v. United States, 93 U. S. 242, is not pertinent.
The Commission had no authority, without readvertising, to enter into a contract for barges of a radically
different type from those originally specified. Fones
Hardware Co. v. Erb, 54 Arkansas, 645; Mazet v. Pittsburgh, 137 Pa. St. 548; Chippewa Bridge Co. v. Durand,
122 Wisconsin, 85; Packard v. Hayes, 94 Maryland, 233;
Detroit Free Press Co. v. Auditors, 47 Michigan, 135;
Littler v. Jayne, 124 Illinois, 123.
Even if the writing in question constituted a valid
contract to construct the barges of lighter and smaller
material than those specified, yet under all the facts and
circumstances of the case such contract was unconscionable. In no event, therefore, was appellee entitled to
more than nominal damages. Hume v. United States,
132 U. S. 406, 412, citing James v. Morgan, 1 Lev. 111;
Thornborow v. Whitacre, 2 Ld. Raym. 1164; Baxter v.
Wales, 12 Massachusetts, 365.
Mr. James Piper,with whom Mr. Francis K. Carey and
Mr. A. A. Hoehling, Jr., were on the brief, for appellees:
An appeal in this case was not applied for by defendant
within ninety days after the date of the judgment; and
the appeal prayed for and allowed was not from the judg-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Appellees.

223 U. S.

ment that was entered in the case, but was merely from
the order overruling the motion for a new trial.
The only judgment from which appellant could properly
appeal is the final judgment of the Court of Claims, and
no appeal will lie to this court from a mere order of the
Court of Claims overruling the motion for a new trial.
Kellogg v. United States, 19'Ct. Cl. 73; Court of Claims,
Rule 107.
Appellant could have filed at any time within ninety
days -thereafter an applicatiorn for the allowance of an
appeal, and such application would have temporarily suspended the further running of the time incident to the
filing, consideration and disposition of a motion for a
new trial. United States v. Ayres, 9 Wall. 609; Roberts v.
United States, 15 Wall. 384; Rules relating to appeals
from the Court of Claims.
To require an appellant to prosecute its rights within
the statutory period would impose no hardship upon the
losing party; whereas, to support the contention that, at
its own pleasure, the defendant party may absolutely
revive the entire statutory period of ninety days by the
filing of successive motions, is contrary to the language
of the statute and would impose a great wrong and an
unnecessary hardship upon the rights of appellee, as s6
adjudicated by the court.
The judgment should be affirmed.
The Court of Claims found there was a valid contract
that the United States breached, whereby appellee was
entitled to recover damages; these findings of fact are
conclusive, and the only question proper for review by
this court is whether or not the conclusion of law thereon
and the entry of judgment by the court in accordance
therewith, is supported and justified by the facts as so
found.
The record discloses that there were successive advertisements made by defendant for procuring these barges

UNITED STATES v. ELLICOTT.
223 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

because of the fact that the bids were in greater amount
than defendant desired to pay therefor. The present
contract, under a bid. which was satisfactory in price to
defendant, was entered into, but, while not in any way
departing from or changing the subject-matter of the
advertisement or specifications, did provide for a barge
lighter in framing aiad plates.
The advertisement simply called for proposals for furnishing and delivering six steel dump barges; hence no
contention can be made by defendant that there was any
departure in the contract from the subject-matter of the
advertisement.
So long as the subject-matter of the advertisement and
specifications be not departed from, there can be modifications or changes in respect of mere detailed matters
incident to such subject-matter. International Co. v.
United States, 13 Ct. Cl. 209; McKee v. United States, 12
Ct. Cl. 504.
The Isthmian Canal Commission has authority in law
to make a valid contract the terms of which modify the
exact terms or specifications accompanying an advertised
circular asking for proposals for work and materials.
As for the reasons for public advertisement and awarding the contract to the lowest bidder, see Dillon, Municipal
Corp., 5th Ed., 1911, §§ 802, 809.
There was no statute requiring the Isthmian Canal
Commission to advertise for bids and to award contracts
to lowest responsible bidder. The requirement rests on
a communication addressed to the Commission by the
President on April 1, 1905, p. 483 Proceedings of the
Isthmian Canal Commission, in response to which the
Commission adopted a set of resolutions, p. 492 Proceedings, which embodied the same language in regard
to letting contracts as contained in the President's communication.
Resolutions passed by the Commission could be altered
VOL. ccxxiii-3t

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Appellees.

223 U. S.

by the Commission. They have not the binding effect
of a statute.
Granting that the appellees were charged with notice
of the resolution, it is general in its terms. No time for
advertising is mentioned nor what the advertisement
should contain, wlhich certainly indicates that the Commission did not intend to restrict itself. Section 3709, Rev.
Stat.,
does not impose the limitations on the Commission
required
to support the Government's contention.
The members of the Isthmian Canal Commission are
not "ministerial agents," comparable to agents acting
for a city-or State in carrying out a defined piece of work
in a limited and defined manner.
There was a sufficient advertisement to promote econonfy and there was no fraud or collusion.
The modification was not so material that the barges
contracted for were not advertised.
These questions are not now open for review.
Convenience requires that the government officials
should be allowed some latitude to modify specifications
annexed to advertisements when the contract is made
and also to modify a contract after it is made.
The Government is contending for a decision which
will make it impracticable to carry.on its business. Modifications are the rule. The Government is pleading a technical disability contrary to what might be called the good
business faith of the situation, and, like all pleas of this
character, it is necessary that the disability complained
of should be clearly established.
In Harvey v. United States, a case which was heard four
times in the Court of Claims and twice in this court,
8 Ct. Cl. 501; 12 Ct. Cl. 141; 13 Ct., Cl. 322; 105 U. S.
671; 18 Ct. Cl. 470; 113 U. S.243; under similar conditions
to this the Supreme Court apparently adopted the lower
court's theory, that the contract was not invalid on account of a departure from bid and specifications, but held

UNITED STATES v. ELLICOTT.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

on equitable grounds that it should be reformed on account of having been entered into by mutual mistake.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of
the court.
Whether or not the United States is responsible in
damages because of a refusal to permit the carrying out
of an alleged contract made with a co-partnership, the
Ellicott Machine Company, who are appellees, for the
construction for the Isthmian Canal Company of six
steel dump barges is the issue here required to be decided.
From a judgment for ten thousand dollars entered in the
Court of Claims, in favor of the Ellicott Machine Company, because of the ref usil referred to, the United States
took this appeal.
It will conduce to a clear understariding of the controversy to fully summarize the facts found below, and
we proceed to do so.
After two unsuccessful attempts to procure satisfactory
proposals for the construction and delivery of the six
steel dump barges, the Isthmian Canal Commission, by
advertisement and specifications, dated May 29, 1906,
invited the proposals which culminated in the making
of the alleged contract. One of the clauses of the advertisement reads as follows:
"Preliminary inspection will be made at the point of
manufacture or purchase to determine whether the material meets the requirements set forth in the specifications and final inspection will be made at the point of
delivery as above."
In the specifications, among other things, it was recited as follows:
"The following specifications and requirements are
general only as indicating the class of construction desired.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

"Barges of heavy construction for rough service, built
in accordance with best modern marine practice, are desired.
"Bidders will be required to submit with their proposals plans in sufficient detail to show the proposed size
of members and details of construction."
*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

"The breadth of the barges should not be less than
25 feet nor more than 32 feet. They should have sufficient
depth and length to carry a full load of sand on a draft
of not more than 8 feet, and with not less than 30" freeboard wlen loaded. They will be rectangular in plan,
with rake at each end about 11" long. .
As shown by an excerpt in the margin, I the weight and
]FRAMING.

Floor beams forward and aft of the hoppers and in the rake should not
be less than 10" deep and extend in one piece to the turn of the bilges.
They will be spaced 24" center to center. Frames to be not less than
3 1/2" x 5 3/8" angles overlapping the floors not less than 18" and connected with them and to floor beams with proper gusset plates. Bilges
to be of as short radius as it is practicable to bend the angles and plates.
In addition to the transverse bulkheads mentioned above there will
be a watertight bulkhead at each end of each rake.
Transverse water-tight bulkheads will be made of 10.2 pound plate
with double-riveted lap joints, stiffened with vertical angle bars 3" x
3" x 5 1/6" spaced 2" apart, except that the plates forming the ends of
the hoppers will be of 21-pound plate, stiffened with 4" x 4" x 3/8"
angle bars spaced 2' apart.
In the space forward and aft of the hoppers there should be a central
longitudinal bulkhead of 10.2-pound plate, fastened at the top of the
floor beams and deck beams by 4" x 4" x 3/8 " angle; it will be stiffened
by vertical 3" x 3" x 5/16" angles, spaced 2' apart. This bulkhead
should extend from the hoppers to each end of the barges.
In addition to this bulkhead there will be 2 longitudinal lattice
trusses, one on each side midway from the center bulkhead to the side
of the hull. They will have top and bottom cords of 3" x 3" x 5/16"
angles riveted to each floor and deck beam, lattice bars to be 3" x 3"
x 5/16" angles made in double panels and joined top arid bottom with

UNITED STATES v. ELLICOTT.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

dimensions of the structural materials were prescribed
with much detail under the head of "Framing." In reply
to this advertisement appellee submitted a proposal to
construct the desired barges, "subject to specifications
of Circular 310-C, with such modifications as are here
shown on drawing No. 2105, dated June 7, submitted
herewith." The plan referred to, as so submitted, showed
the outline of a barge 101 feet 4 inches long, 30 feet wide,
and 10 feet 6 inches in height, and a note on it read as
follows:
"Capacity of Bins-350 Cu. Yards. Maximum Loaded
Draft When Carrying 350 Cu. Yds. Of Material Weighing 3240 Lbs. Per Cu. Yard, Not to Exceed 8'-0"."
After examination of the bids by F. B. Maltby, Division Engineer on the Canal Zone, that official returned
the bids to the general purchasing officer of the Commisproper gusset plates with not less than 3 rivets in each landing. These
trusses will extend from the hoppers to the rake.
In the rake there should be a 3" x 3" x 3/8" angle stanchion secured
to each deck beam and floor timber on line with the said trusses.
Deck beams to be of 5" x 3/8" Z bars spaced one to
each frame, each
beam to be attached to its frame by 5/16" gusset.
Gunwales to be not less than 4 1/2" x 4 1/2" x 7/16" angle running
inside the side plating and below the deck.
The hull plating should be 21-pound on the bottom; bilges should be
21-pound; the side plating may be of 18-pound plate and in not more
than 2 streaks.
The deck should have a checkered stringer streak on each side 30"
wide and about 7/16" thick; remaining deck may be of 15-pound
plating.
All plating to be worked "in" and "out" on longitudinal streaks;
longitudinal laps to be double-riveted. All girth seams to be doubleriveted to butt straps.
There should be a nosing or fender streak of 8" x 8" yellow pine,
supported by 4" x 4" x 3/8" angles top and bottom. This nosing
should extend entirely about the barge. On each side of the full length
there should be a second fender streak of the same section about 3' be-

low the deck.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

sion in Washington, accompanied by a letter dated June 26,
1906. Therein, among other things, Mr. Maltby said:
"It is noted that the drawing submitted by the Ellicott
Machine Works does not show any detail, as required
by the specifications. It is assumed, however (and we
should insist on it), that the framing will be in strict accordance with our specifications." A sketch was inclosed
"showing the desired arrangement of the hinges on the.
hopper doors and the method of securing timber lining to
hoppers," and various suggestions were made explanatory
of the details shown on this sketch. Thereupon D. W.
Ross, purchasing officer, prepared and transmitted to the
Ellicott firm a draft of contract for the construction and
delivery of the barges, but it was returned with the suggestion that article 1 thereof be rewritten, so as to provide
for the construction of"six steel dump barges in accordance with specifications
contained in Circular No. 310-C of the Isthmian Canal
Commission, dated May 29th, 1906; with such modifications as are shown on drawing No. 2105, dated June 7th,
1906, and subject to such amendments as to details of
hinges, hoisting gear and method of securing timber lining
to hoppers, as are described by letter of F. B. Maltby,
division engineer, dated June 26th, 1906, with the accompanying sketch, a copy of which specifications, drawing,
letter and sketch are attached herewith and form part
of this contract."
In the letter returning said draft of contract, it was
stated that"our drawing No. 2105 was not intended to show working
details, but solely to limit the conditions of displacements, load, and draft. As long as these are maiutained
we shall be pleased to follow such reasonable design of
working details in arrangement and distribution of material as Mr. Maltby or his inspector may require."
Claimant also, at the request of said Ross; addressed

UNITED STATES v. ELLICOTT.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

a letter, dated July 27, 1906, to Maltby, in which it submitted"print # 2105 revised July 27th, specifying details as
called for in your letter June 26th, 1906, of hinges, hoistin g gear and method of securing timber lining to hoppers."
In said letter this statement also was made:
"We have also inserted on the drawing a schedule of
displacement, load and draft showing a total net weight
for the barge of 260,000 pounds. You will note that this
corresponds with the note shown on print originally submitted with bid, and this weight may be distributed in
any way your representative may desire."
The alleged contract, the subject of this controversy,
was then executed, F. P. Shonts, chairman of the Commission, signing for the party of the first part. Following
a recital that "the Isthmian Canal Commission, for and
on behalf of the United' States of America and the said
Ellicott Machine Company, had covenanted and agreed,
to and with each other, as follows." The first article of
the contract was inserted, reading as follows:
"Article 1. That the :said Ellicott Machine Company
shall construct, erect, and deliver to the Isthmian Canal
Commission at Baltimore, Maryland, six (6) steel dump
barges, in accordance with specifications contained in
circular 310-C of the Isthmian Canal Commission, dated
May 29th, 1906, with such modifications as are shown
on drawing No. 2105, dated June 7th, 1906, and revised
July 27th, 1906; outlined in letter of Ellicott Machine Company dated July 27th, 1906, and subject to such amendments as to details of linges, hoisting gear, and method
of securing timber lining to hoppers as are described by
letter of F. B. Maltby, division engineer, dated June 26,
1906, with accompanying sketch, copy of which specifications, drawing, letters, and sketch are attached hereto
and form a part of this contract."
It was provided in article 3 as follows;

536

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

"Article 3. That the party of the first part, by its duly
authorized agent, shall have the right to inspect at any
time during the process of construction of these barges,
any and all material and workmanship used, or to be used,
in said construction, and such inspection of said barges,
and of the material used, or to be used, in the construction
thereof, and of the workmanship thereon, may be made
by the party of the first part, or its duly authorized agent,
at any place where said materials may be found, and at
the places of construction of said barges. In addition to
the above, when said barges, or either of them, are pronounced by the party of the second part to be completed
and ready for final inspection, such inspection may be
made by the party of the first part, by its duly authorized
agent, at the place or places where such barges, or either
of them, have been constructed, such inspection being for
the purpose of determining whether the same, or either
of them, meet the requirements set forth in the letters,
specifications, and blue print mentioned in artitle 1 hereof
and all of said inspections, whe ther preliminary or final; the
party of the first part, by its duly authorized agent, shall
have the right to reject any and all material used, or to be
used, in the construction of said barges, or either of them,
or in the workmanship thereon, When, in the judgment of
the party of the first part, by its duly authorized agent,
the same or any part thereof, does not conform to the requirements above mentioned."
In article 8, among other things it was provided as
follows:
"The barges herein contracted for shall be. completed
in accordance with the specifications, letter, and blue
print annexed hereto and made a part hereof, . .
By article 9 it was agreed that payment would be made
of the stipulated price for the six barges "upon their construction and delivery in accordance with the terms of
this contract and the papers attached hereto."

UNITED STATES v. ELLICOTT.

223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

It was provided in the last article of the contract as
follows:
"Article 12. If, at any time, during the prosecution of
this work, it shall be found advantageous or necessary
to make any change or modification in said barges, or
either of them, and this change or modification should
involve such alteration in the specifications as to character,
quantity, and quality, whether of labor or material, as
would ieither increase or diminish the cost of the work,
then such change or modification must be agreed upon
in writing by the contracting parties, the agreement setting forth fully the reasons for such change, and giving
clearly the quantities and prices both of material and
labor thus substituted for those specified in the original
contract, and before taking effect must be approved by
the chairman of the Isthmian Canal Commission: Provided, That no payment: shall be made unless such supplemental or modified agreement was signed and approved
before the obligations arising from such modification was
incurred."
Two days after the execution of the contract claimants
presented to the Government inspector of dredges a list of
materials intended to be used by them in the construction
of said barges, but upon examination of said list it was
found by said inspector of dredges that the dredges which
the claimants proposed to construct were different from
those described in circular letter and specifications 310-C,
set forth in the petition, the principal component parts
or members being reduced in weight, size and power of
resistance, and thereupon the same was disapproved by
the officers of the Government. Demand was thereupon
made that the claimants should adhere to the original
specifications, which they refused to do, and as a result,
the United States abrogated the contract.
Soon afterwards this suit was commenced. By the
petition judgment for thirty thousand dollars was de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.

Opinion of. the Court.

223 U. S.

manded as the "gains and profits, which claimants would
have made had they constructed the barges in accordance
with the contract as the terms of that instrument were
construed by the contracting firm." The Court of Claims,
as already stated, gave judgment against the United
States for the sum of ten thousand dollars. There is
no statement in the findings as to the loss sustained by
the claimants. Evidently, however, the conclusion to
award the sum stated was based upon the hypothesis
mentioned in the closing paragraph of the opinion of the
court' below, readi ng as follows:
"In consideration of all of the facts in the case, and in
view of the difference between the cost of doing certain
work and what claimants were to receive for it, making
reasonable deduction of the less time engaged and release
from the care, cost, risk, and responsibility attending a
full execution of the cohtract, the court decides that
claimants are entitled to recover as profits the sum of
$10,000, and accordingly judgment against the defendants
for said amount is hereby ordered."
A motion to dismiss the appeal first requires attention.
The facts are as follows:
The judgment against the United States was entered
on May 18, 1908. Eighty-four days afterwards, on
August 10, 1908, defendant filed a: motion for a new trial.
This motion was argued and submitted on November 23,
1908, and was overruled on January 4, 1909, in the term
which began on December 7, 1908. Seventeen days
afterwards, on January 21; 1909, the United States filed
a motion to amend the findings of fact; on February 8,
1909, the motion was argued and submitted; and on
February 15, 1909, the motion was overruled in part and
allowed in part. Ten days afterwards, on February 25,
1909, the United States made application for and gave
notice of an appeal "from the judgment rendered in the
above entitled cause on the fourth day of January, 1909."

UNITED STATES v. ELLICOTT.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The grounds for the motion to dismiss are these: (a)
that the appeal was not taken within ninety days after
judgment, (Rev. Stat., § 708), and (b) that the appeal
prayed for and allowed was not from the judgment of
January 4, 1909, "but was merely from the order overruling the motion for a new trial."
The motion is without merit. The general rule governing the subject of prosecuting error or taking appeals
from final judgments or decrees is, we think, applicable
to judgments or decrees of the Court of Claims, and that
rule treats a judgment or decree properly entered in the
cause as not fifial for the purposes of appeal until a motion
for a new trial or a petition for rehearing, as the case may
be, when entertained by the court, has been disposed of;
and the time for appeal begins to run from the date of such
disposition. Kingman v. Western ManufacturingCompany,
170 U. S. 675, 680, 681. It is, we think, also manifest
that the appeal was taken upon the hypothesis just stated
that the judgment entered did not become a final judgment for the purposes of appeal until the motion for a
new trial had been disposed of. Texas & Pacific Railway
Company v. Murphy, 111 U. S.488.
Coming to the merits. The claimant in effect reiterates
in the, argument at bar the position taken by the court
below in the opinions by it rendered, reported in 45 Ct.
Cl. 469 and 44 Ct. Cl. 127. We shall, therefore, dispose
of, the case by reviewing the opinions of the court below.
i In the opinion delivered upon the original hearing it
'was observed that "the litigation in this case resulted
from what seems to have been an apparent misunderstanding by the agents of the defendants, as to certain
changes in the terms of an original advertisement for bids
for the• jonstruction of the said six steel dump barges of a
specified size, strength, and weight," etc. It was, however,
held that the contract was clear and unambiguous in
terms, and that the evidence revealed "a degree of negli-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

gence on the part of the agents of the defendants from
which they cannot be allowed to extricate themselves by
the abrogation of a duly executed contract in order to shield
themselves from responsibility." The claimants, it was
said, in their second bid, made part of the contract, had in
detail specifically set forth the strength, weight and measurement of the barges, and that "the only difference in
the barges which the claimant proposed in its contract to
construct- under its bid was a difference in weight of
framing and plates from those contained in the advertisement of the defendant's bircular No. 310-C." The
claimants, however, it was. further observed, had called
the attention of the defendant to the great difference between its then bid and the prior bid, and before the execution of the contract had noted on the blue print submitted
by them and attached to the contract "the net weight
of the barges," and stated that "this weight was to
be distributed in such manner as the defendants might
instruct." The printed specifications, it was held, although made part of the contract, could not govern,
since the letter of claimants of July 27 and the blue print
would have to be entirely ignored. It was also said that
the materials proposed to be used by the claimants in
the construction of the barges, although "reduced in
weight, size; and power of resistance" from those prescribed by the specifications, did not constitute "a substitution of different strength *and material for those
provided in the specifications of the defendant as to the
manner of constructing the barges," butwas "rather a
modification thereof."
We have, however, reached the -conclusion, as well
,from the fact that the specifications were expressly made
part of the contract as from varioijs provisions of the con-tract which we have excerpted that it cannot in reason
be held that the. specifications .must be ignored, aid .as
they cannot,'. therefore, -be treated as having been abro-.-

UNITED STATES v. .ELLICOTT.
223 U. S.

541

Opinion of the.Court:

gated, it inevitably follows that the alleged contract should
have been held void for uncertainty.
It is, we think, in reason, impossible to construe the
"modifications" referred to in the first article of the contract as having relation to the dimensions, etc., of the
material so specifically described in the portions of the
specifications embraced under the heading "Framing,"
since in that event a clear inconsistency would arise between the terms of that article and the terms of the specifications, also constituting part of the contract. And
although this conclusion is, we think, so certain as to
require no additional demonstration than the mere consideration of the terms of the two provisions, its conclusiveness is in addition convincingly shown by an analysis
of the contract as a whole. The provision of article 3 in
regard to the right of the Government at any time during
the progress of the work on the barges to inspect all the
material furnished clearly imports that the contract had
precisely settled the character of such material. So also
does the provision in the same article in regard to final inspection, wherein it is provided "such inspection being for
the purpose of determining whether the same, or either
of them, meet the requirements set forth in the letters,
specifications, and blue prints mentioned in article 1
hereof, and all of said inspections, whether prliminary or
final, the party of the first part, by its duly authorized
agent, shall have the right to reject any and all material
used, or to be used, in the construction of said barges, or
either of them, or in the workmanship thereon, when, in
the judgment of the party of the first part, by its duly
authorized agent, the same or any part thereof, does not
conform to the requirements above mentioned. Again,
prominence is given in article 8 to the fact that, in the
construction of the barges, the specifications are to be given
effect, the provision being that "the barges herein contracted for shall be completed in accordance with the speci-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

fications, letter and blue print annexed hereto and made
a part hereof. . . ." So, also, in article 9, payment
is to be made only when the barges have been constructed
and delivered "in accordance with the terms of this contract and the papers attached hereto," of which papers
the specifications formed a part. Article 12 also clearly
negates the conception that it could have been intended
by the parties that material parts of the specifications
should be treated as not forming a portion of the contract,.
although declared by its terms to be a part thereof, since
the binding efficacy of the specifications as to material is
.therein emphasized. The article, in substance, provided
that no change or modification "involving an alteration
in the specifications as to character, quantity and quality,
whether of labor or material, as would either increase or
diminish the cost of the work" should be made unless
"agreed upon in writing by the contracting parties, the
agreement setting forth fully the reasons for such change,
and giving clearly the quantities and price both of material
and labor thus substituted for those specified in the original
contract," etc. Manifestly, this article was drawn upon
the conception, not that the contract did not, but that it
did, specifically provide as to what material should be
furnished for the work, and no other source could be
resorted to for light as to the material contracted to be
supplied than the specifications which it is* now urged
ought by construction to L : removed from the contract.
Thus viewing the contract as a whole and determining
that the specifications so far as the "Framing" schedule
is concerned should have been treated as unaffected by
the provisions of article 1, it is evident that there was
a conflict so irreconcilable between essential provisions of
the assumed contract as to render it impossible to enforce
it as an agreement-between the parties. This result of the
absolutely antagonistic and destructive character of essential provisions of the contract, one upon the other, can

ONTARIO LAND CO. v. WILFONG.
223 U. S.

• 543 "

Syllabius.

only be escaped by indulging in one of two hypotheses,
either that the terms of the advertisement and specifications as incorporated in the assumed contract overshadowed and virtually destroyed the proposals resulting from
the bid of the claimant, which also was incorporated in the
contract, or conversely that the proposals which the bid
embraced had the effect of setting at naught the provisions
of the specifications. But if the first assumption were
indulged in, it would clearly result that there was no-right
to recover, since that right is based upon the theory that
the specifications are not binding and need not be complied with; and if the second were indulged, the same
result would follow, since it would then come to pass that
the contract was so irresponsive to and destructive of
the- advertised proposals as to nullify them, and therefore
cause it to result that the contract was one made without
the competitive bidding which was necessary to give it
validity.
Under the circumstances, therefore,
the court erred in
treating the contract as a valid agreement and in awarding
judgment against the United States.
Judgment reversed.

ONTARIO LAND COMPANY v. WILFONG.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 160.

Argued January 24, 1912.-Decided February 26, 1912.

Where the bill attacks the constitutionality of the state law as applied
by the state court, and the application of a case heretofore decided
by this court runs to the merits, the motion to dismiss will be denied.
The refusal of the courts of the State to consider as essential to proceedings to foreclose tax liens certain ministerial duties, the omis-

