FAIRBANKS v. UNITED STATES.
223 U. S.

Syllabus.

FAIRBANKS v. UNITED STATES.
WARREN v. UNITED STATES.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
Nos. 112, 113. Argued January 18, 19, 1912.-Decided February 19, 1912.
The Nelson Act of January 14, 1889, 25 Stat. 642, c. 24, providing for
allotment of lands of Chippewa Indians in the White Earth Reservation was still effective as to those Indians who had not received
allotments thereunder when the Steenerson Act of April 24, 1904,
33 Stat. 589, c. 1786, was enacted and such Indians were not required to await proceedings under the Steenerson Act to obtain
their original allotments under the Nelson Act.
The Steenerson Act is part of a plan of legislation in regard to Indian
allotments and modified and changed the prior general allotment
acts of February 8, 1887, and February 28, 1891, by superseding
certain of their provisions and enlarging the quantity of land to be
allotted, and the scheme of legislation of which it is a part is to
have existence and continuity of action until its purpose shall have
been fulfilled. Oakes v. United States, 172 Fed. Rep. 304.
Under .the Nelson Act and the other acts relating to Indian allotments
in the White Earth Reservation, in force August 8, 1904, children
born on the reservation subsequent to the final order and who had
not had allotments were entitled to allotments of eighty acres.
Indians who had already received allotments under the Nelson Act
were not entitled prior to August 8, 1904, to make selections of
additional land under the Steenerson Act to the exclusion of one
who had not received any allotment under the Nelson Act.
In a, continuous proceeding in the Land Department under the Indian Allotment Adts all parties are chargeable with notice of the
different steps taken.
Quesre: Whether a decree can be made in a suit against the United
States by a party claiming a selection under Indian allotment acts
which would affect the rights of other claimants to the same land
who. are not parties to the suit.

THE facts, which involve the title to lands
in the White

Earth Indian Reservation, allotted under the Chippewa
Indian treaty of 1867, and various acts of Congress relating thereto, are stated in the opinion.

216

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

Mr. F. W. Houghton, with whom Mr. George B. Edgerton was on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Knaebel, with whom
Mr. S. W. Williams was on the brief, for the United States,
MR. JUsTiCE McKENNA'delivered

the opinion of the

court.
The appellants were plaintiffs in the court below, and
we shall so designate them.
The plaintiffs, one a minor (No. 112) and the other an
adult (No. 113), residing on the White Earth Indian Reservation, brought these actions to determine their rights, respectively, to allotments of land under the pro.visions of a
treaty with the Chippewa Indians proclaimed April 18,
1867, and- certain acts of Congress relating to such Indians.
The Government claims that two minor children of
Samuel Mooers, also Chippewa Indians, residing on the
reservation with their father, have been justly allotted
the lands on account of a superior right under the treaty
and acts of Congress. The cases were tried together and
a..decree was entered in each case in accordance with the
prayer of the plaintiffs, respectively. The decrees were
reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals and the bills
directed to be dismissed,. 171 Fed. Rep. 337.
The treaty:of March 19, 1867, and certain acts of Congress are elements in the controversy. The treaty provided that as soon as the location of the reservation should
have been approximately ascertained it should be suirveyed 'in conformity with the system of Government
surveys, and that any Indian of bands parties to the treaty,
either:.male or female, who should have 10 acres of land
under cultivation should be entitled -to a certificaie showing him to be entitled to 40 acres and. a like number of

FAIRBANKS v. UNITED STATES.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

acres for every additional 10 acreb cultivated until the
full amount of 160 acres should be certified. 16 Stat.
719, 721. This was denominated the "cultivation clause"
and many allotments of 160 acres were made under it.
On February 8, 1887 (24 Stat. 388, c. 119), Congress
passed an act "to provide for the allotment of lands in
severalty to Indians on the various reservations." The
first section of the act provided that where any tribe or
band of Indians had been or should be located upon any
reservation created for their use by treaty, act of Congress
or executive order, the President was authorized,. if the
reservation or any part thereof was advantageous for
agricultural and grazing purposes, to cause the reservation to be surveyed or resurveyed, and to allot the
lands in severalty as follows: To each head of, a family.
i of a section, to each single person over 18 years of age,
* of a section, a like fraction to an orphan child under
18 years, to each single person under 18 then living or who
might be born prior to the date of the President's order
directing allotment, - of a section. In ease of deficiency
the allotments were to be made pro rata. It was provided
further that where the treaty or act of Congress setting
apart the reservation provided for allotments in excess
of those designated the allotments should be made in the
quantities specified in such treaty or act.
This act was amended February 28, 1891 (26 Stat.
794, c. 383). The allotment to which each Indian was
to be entitled was made of a section of land. In case
of an insufficiency a pro rata allotment as near as might
be according to legal subdivision was provided. On
January 14, 1889 (25 Stat. 642, c. 24), an act was passed
entitled "An act for the relief and civilization of the Chippewa Indians in the State of Minnesota." It is known as
the-Nelson Act and provided for the appointment by the
President of three commissioners to negotiate with the
different bands of Chippewas for the cession of all their

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

lands except so much of the White Earth and Red Lake
Reservations as the Commissioner should deem necessary
for allotments to be made to the Indians. It also provided for the removal to the White Earth Reservation
of all but Red Lake Indians and for allotments to such
Indians on White Earth Reservation under the direction
of such commissioners.
Section 4 of the act provided for the survey of the lands
after the cession and relinquishment of the Indian title
and that upon the report of the survey the Secretary of
the Interior should appoint a sufficient number of competent examiners to go upon the lands thus surveyed and
personally make a careful, complete and thorough examination of the same by 40-acre lots for the purpose
of ascertaining upon which lots there was growing or
standing pine timber, and the tract upon which such timber was standing or growing should be termed pine lands.
The minutes of examination were directed to be- entered
in books showing with particularity the quantity of

timber to be estimated by feet and the quality of timber,
which estimates and reports should be filed with the Commissioner of the General Land Office as a part of its permanent records, and that officer should thereupon make
up a list of such lands, describing each 40-acre tract
separately, and opposite each description place the actual
cash value of the same according to his best judgment and
information, but such valuation should not be less than
$3 per thousand feet, board measure. The list should
.thereupon be transmitted to the Secretary of the Interior
for his approval, modification or rejection; as he may deem
proper. It is further provided that "all other lands acquired from the said.Indians on said reservation other than
pine lands are for the purposes of this act termed agricultural lands." There are provisions for the-sale of the pine
lands in 40-acre parcels, for the disposal to actual settiers only of the agricultural lands, antd that the money

FAIRBANKS v. UNITED STATES.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

received from both shall be deposited in the Treasury
of the United States for the benefit of the Indians.
There are amending acts which need not be noticed.
Then came the act.of April 28, 1904 (33 Stat. 539, c. 1786),
entitled "An Act to provide allotments to Indians on
White Earth Reservation in Minnesota." It is called
the Steenerson act. It authorized the President to allot
to each Chippewa Indian legally residing on the White
Earth Reservation, under the treaty or laws of the United
States, 160 acres of land. The act recited that it was enacted in accordance with the express promise made to the
Indians by previous acts and the treaty, and that the allotments should be made and the patents issued therefor
should be in- the manner and have the same effect as
provided in the acts of February 8, 1887, and February 28,
1891. And it was provided "that where any allotment
of less than one hundred and sixty acres has heretofore
been made, the allottee shall be allowed to take an additional allotment, which, together with the land already
allotted, shall not exceed one hundred and sixty acres."
There is a provision, in case of insufficiency, for pro rata
allotment, as follows: "That if there is not sufficient land
in said White Earth (diminished) Reservation subject to
allotment each Indian entitled to allotments under the
provisions of this Act shall receive a pro rata allotment."
These acts constitute the statutory law of the case.
The facts are as follows !On June 29, 1904, and June 30,
1904, respectively, the plaintiffs, Annie Fairbanks, through
her father, Warren, for himself, applied at the White
Earth Agency for an additional allotment of 80 acres
each, respectively, being the W. 2 and E., I of the N. W.
of section 15; T. 142, R. 39. 'The applications were under
the Steenerson Act, the plaintiffs having received their full
quota under the Nelson Act. The applications were refused, on the ground that they could not then be received.
-On August 8, 1904, Lewis and Alice Mooers, aged, re-

. 220

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.,

223 U. S.

spectively, four and six years, made application through
their father, Samuel Mooers, for an original allotment of
80 acres of land each under the Nelson act, the act of
Congress approved January 14,. 1889. The selection
for Lewis was .the same 80 acres applied for by Annie
Fairbanks; the selection for Alice the same 80 acres applied for by Warren. In the Mooers' application the
land was described as not pine land. At the time of the
applications the Indian' Agent was away, but his clerk
received the applications, marking the.land on the agency
plats as allotted to them, and made the usual entries on
the allotment roll. He made the allotment, therefore,
as far as he could.
Subsequently the agent required the clerk to cancel
the allotment on the ground that the lands were pine
lands and notified Mooers of such cancellation, which was
done by mail, and he. Was directed to select other lands for
his children.
On April 24, 1905, the allotments were commenced
on the reservation under the Steenerson Act, and on that.
date the plaintiffs, respectively, made application and were
allotted the lands in controversy, they being the same as
applied for by them on June 29th and 30th, 1904.
*Against the action of the agent . cancelling the allot_nents to Lewis and Aiice on August 8, 1904, Mooers appealed to "the Indian Office. The commissioner ruled in
favor of his contention and directed the agent to re-allot
the lands to, Mooers' children. The' agent, however,
suspended action pending an investigation, which resulted in the ,commissioner, under the directions of the
Secretary of -the Interior; revoking his ruling and sustaining the allotments to plaintiffs. Other lands were directed
to be allotted to the Mooers. Upon Mooers' appeal
the last decision of the commissioner was reversed and the
land directed to be allotted to his children.
-The commissioner in his letter directing the restoration

FAIRBANKS v. UNITED STATES.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of the allotment to the Mooers children, discussing the
right of selection of pine lands, said: "It is true that in
the early work of the Chippewa Commission in making
allotments on the White Earth Reservation the Office
did direct that only agricultural lands should be allotted,
reserving the pine lands for the common benefit of all
of the Indians of the reservation; but after the passage
of the Steenerson Act which contemplated the allotment
of all the lands of the reservation, such instructions
necessarily could have no application."
The order of the commissioner allotting the land to the
Mooers children, as we have seen, was reversed by the
then Secretary of the Interior, but not on the ground that
pine lands could not be selected. The ruling of the Secretary was on the ground that the selection by the Mooers
was premature. The Secretary said: "The testimony
shows that Mr. Mooers was at the Agency, arrived on Sunday, the day before the allotting began, but he did not
take his place in line until quite late, if at all, but seemsto have relied upon the fact that he haft designated to a
clerk at the Agency the particular lands which he desired,
even after he had been told that the selections would not
be recognized as against other claimants."
Secretary Garfield, in reversing the decision of his
predecessor, took the view that "the applications of the
Mooers children were for original allotments, were actually
allowed, and that there were no valid reasons against such
action." The Secretary also said that it was "plain that
there was no reason for laying upon Mooers the rule governing additional allotments'under the Steenerson act;"
that is, that Mooers should appear in line and take his
chances with other Indians. Concluding his opinion, the
Secretary said: "It appears that allotments have been
made to the Mooers children, for which Samuel A. Mooers
says'he did not apply. Our office will also adjust this.
matter accordingly,"

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

From these repeated changes in views and decisions
in the Interior Department we gain little light upon
the controversy between the parties so far as it depends
upon the interpretation of the statutes, and even the
Government in.this case is somewhat uncertain as to what
position it will ultimately take. "It might," it says,
"find occasion to reverse its former attitude by conceding
the plaintiffs'- claim or denying that any of the 'contestants
is entitled." But it concedes "that lands classified as pine
lands outside of the reservation which .had been ceded by
the Indians to be sold for their-benefit, were not allotable."
We may gather, notwithstanding the confusion, that
the department and all of the claimants regarded the Nelson Act as still effective as to Indians who had not received its benefits and the Steenerson Act as applying to
additional allotments, leaving only the question whether
allotments could be made of pine lands. If so, the allotments to the Mooers children were good, because selections under the Nelson Act were not required to wait for
proceedings Under the Steenerson Act. But notwithstanding the uncertainty and seeming confusion, the
question in the case is simple when certain elements are
kept in mind-that is, the distinction between the lands
ceded and those not ceded but reserved for allotments.
Section 1 of the Nelson Act provides for the negotiation
with the Chippewas "for the cession and relinquishment"
of their title to their reservations, "except White Earth
and Red Lake, and to all of those two which may not be
required to fill the allotments required by this and existing
acts." (Italics ours.) The land reserved for allotments
is the diminished reservation, to which we shall presently
refer, and ยง 3 provides for its allotment. Section 4 applies to the lands ceded, not those reserved for allotments,
and provides for the examination of the pine lands and
for their sale in 40 acre pieces. It provides also (ยง 6)
for the disposal of agricultural lands to. settlers under the

FAIRBANKS v. UNITED STATES.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

homestead laws at $1.25 per acre, the proceeds of which
and of the sale of pine lands to. be put into the Treasury
of the United States for the benefit of the Indians. ยง 7.
The department at first, as we have seen, regarded only
agricultural lands as allotable, making no distinction between ceded and the reserved part of the reservation. In
the reserved part (diminished reservation)-that is, the
part that was to be allotted, there was no distinction made
between pine land and agricultural lands. In the ceded
part there was a distinction, but only in the manner of
their disposition. Neither was allotable, not because of
their character, but because of their situation. The Indian
Department, as we have seen, took back its ruling and
even if it was not done under the compulsion of the Steenerson Act, plaintiffs might have no ground of complaint.
Certainly not if the first ruling was made under a misapprehension of the Nelson Act, as the Court of Appeals
strongly intimates. However, the department justifies
its last ruling under the Steenerson Act, and upon the
decision of the Court of Appeals sustaining that ruling
plaintiffs assign error.
It becomes necessary, therefore, to consider the Steenerson Act, and it may be well to repeat somewhat. The
Steenerson Act authorized the President to allot 160 acres
of land "to eah Chippewa Indian now legally residing
upon the White Earth Reservation under treaty or laws
of the United States." And it was provided that where
an allotment had theretofore been made of.less than 160
acres an additional allotment should be made, which,
together with the land already allotted, should not exceed
that amount. The act is very direct as to quantity and
there is no qualification as to the character of the land to
be allotted, and no classification of the lands to cause
misunderstanding. The general allotment act and the
act of February 28, 1891, are referred to, but only to adopt
the manner of the allotment and the effect of the patent.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S;

The provision is: "The allotment shall be, and the patent
issued therefor, in the manner and having the same effect
as provided in the general allotment act." The manner of'
allotment is one thing and the kind of land to be allotted
is another and cannot well be confounded, and we cannot hold that Congress did not observe or intend to make
the distinction.
It is contended further that the Mooers' children being,
respectively, 4 and 6 years of age, were not entitled to an
original allotment under the Nelson Act.
The lower courts disagreed as to this contention, the
Circuit Court supporting it and the Circuit Court of
Appeals deciding that it was untenable. Plaintiffs in
error urge that the. Circuit. Court of Appeals fell into error
by assuming that ยง 1 of the act of February 8, 1887, was
part of the Nelson Act, and hence decided that the power
of the President to make allotments which was given by
the former was a continuing power, and could be exercised from time to time in favor of those born upon the
reservatiorn subsequent to the first order. It is, however,
insisted that under the Nelson Act the power to make
allotments .was taken from the President and vested in
commissioners, and that the provision relied on by the
Circuit Court of Appeals was omitted from the act, and
it is insisted further that if it be considered part of the
act the whole of the provision must be considered, and
that it limits an allotment to -A of a section to any single
person then -living or who should be born prior to the
date of the order directing an allotment of lands. Undoubtedly, if that part of the provision had remained the
law an allotment of 80 acres could not have been made,
but plaintiffs in error concede that it did not remain the
law. It was superseded by the act of February 28, 1891,
and they admit that "the Land Department has treated
the act of February 28, 1891, as amending section 1 of
the act of 1887. By such amendment the classification

FAIRBANKS v. UNITED STATES.
223'U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

found in the act of February 8, 1887, is entirely omitted,
and the language is: 'To each Indian located thereon oneeighth of a section of land."' The conclusion that plaintiffs in error draw from that provision is that being on the
reservation at the instant of time the act was passed is a
necessary condition. But such conclusion misses the
meaning of the word "located." Of itself it has no reference to time. It has reference entirely to place and is
used to designate upon what Indians the powers given
by the act, when exercised, should operate---7that is, "to
each Indian located" on the reservation. The act was a
part of a scheme of legislation to have existence and continuity of action until its purpose should be completely
fulfilled. See Oakes v,United States, 172 Fed. Rep. 305.
This being so, the Steenerson Act is easily seen to be a
part of the plan of legislation, and, contrary to the contention of plaintiffs in error, did modify and change the prior
acts of Congress by superseding certain of their provisions
and enlarging the quantity of land to be allotted.
It is finally contended that Secretary Garfield had no
power to set aside the allotments to plaintiffs in error on
an ex parte appeal. In other words they were entitled to
notice and opportunity to be heard. Garfield v. Goldsby,
211 U. S.249. The only evidence offered to sustain the
contention is that of the. attorney who testified that he
appeared "before the department for Warren and Fairbanks in this case," and that he "did not learn until
after the decision had been rendered on the, rehearing or
appeal" that an appeal had been taken from the letter
or order of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs of July 13,
1906, in which the Commissioner directed the agent to
cancel the allotments to Warren and Fairbanks and to
restore the allotments to them. It may well be, as urged
by the Government, that such testimony does not preclude
the inference that other attorneys or Warren or the father
of the Fairbanks had notice. We, however, do not conVOL. ccxXi-15

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

sider the inference material. It is manifest that the proceedings were single and continuous-at one time the
Mooers prevailing, at others the plaintiffs in error, and
finally the Mooers; and all were chargeable with notice
of what was happening in regard to their rights. We have
seen that an allotment to the Mooers. children and that
to plaintiffs in error were made without notice. The
Mooers had a subsequent hearing, it is true, and the cancellation of the allotments to them ordered to be set aside.
The latter order was suspended and an investigation
instituted, upon which one Secretary decided in favor of
plaintiffs in error and another Secretary decided in favor
of the Mooers. The latter was considered as the final
decision, and plaintiffs in error have sought its review in
this proceeding.
It is objected by the Government that the Mooers children are necessary parties. The point was suggested by
the Court of Appeals, but passed by, as the court said,
because counsel.had not raised it. A doubt was expressed,
however, if a decree could be rendered seriously affecting
the rights of the Mooers children without their being
made parties. A query to the same effect was made in
Oakes v. United States, supra.

The jurisdictional act has this provision as to a, suit
brought under it: "'In said suit the parties thereto shall
be the claimant, as plaintiff, and the United States as
party defendant." It may well be contended, therefore,
that the United States stands in judgment for all opposing
claimants, not, it may be, excluding the power of the
court to permit them to come in, or, in its discretion, to
order them to be brought in. However, we axe not called
upon to decide the question. Upon the suit brought and
case made by plaintiffs we decide that they have no
grounds for the relief they pray.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.

