568'

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Syllabus.

282 U. S.

appeal from the district court. Lutcher & Moore Lumber
Co. v. Knight, 217 U. S. 257, 267; Delk v. St. Loitis &
S. F. R. ,Co., 220 U. S. 580, 588. And see Langnes v.
Green, supra. Accordingly, we have examined these assignments, some eight in number. One or more of them
involye questions which have been disposed of by the foregoing opinion. We find nothing in any of the others of
sufficient substance or materiality to call for consideration.
The judgment of 'the court of appeals is reversed
and that of the district court affirmed.
UNITED STATES v. LA FRANCA.
CERTIORARI TO T[E CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR TME

FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 711 Argued January 27, 1931.-Decided February 24, 1931.
1. Failure to enter an exception to an order of the District Court
overruling pleas of former jeopardy and res judicata does not
preclude their consideration on review, where the facts were agreed
to bystipulation entered of record. P. 570.
2. A tax on retail liquor dealing sought to be recovered under § 701,
par. 9, of the Revenue Act of 1924, which was passed in lieu of a
similar provision in the Act of 1918, repeated-in the Act of 1921,
is properly treated as having been imposed by an Act in force
prior to the enactment of the National Prohibition Act (1919).'
9
'P. 571.
3: The "tax" imposed by-§ 35, Title 2, of the National ProhibitionAct, which provides for the assessment and collection of l "tax"
in "double the amount now provided by law," upon evidence of an
illegal sale under the Act, is not a true tax but a penalty. P. 572.
4. A tax is an enforced contribution to provide for the support of
government; a penalty, as the word is here used, is an exaction by
statute as punishment. If an exaction be clearly a penalty, it
cannot 1e converted into a tax by calling it such. Id.
5. A statute must be construed, if fairly possible, so as to avoid not
only the conclusion that it is unconstitutional but also grave doubts
upon that score. P. 574. ,

UNITED STATES v. LA FRANCA.
568

Opinion of the Court.'

6. In § 5 of the Willis-Campbell Act (1921), by which laws and
penalties respecting taxation of and traffic in intoxicating liquor,
in force when the National Prohibition Act was enacted, are continued in force, with the proviso that, where any act violates any
such prior law and also the National Prohibition Act, conviction
under one shall be a bar to prosecution under the other, the word
"prosecution" must be construed to include a civil action to recover a penalty for an act declared to be a crime. P. 575.
7. Statutes amended are to be read, as to all subsequent occurrences,
as if they had originally'been in their amended form. P. 576.
8. A civil action to recover iaxes imposed by. R. S. § 3244 and § 701of the Revenue Act of 1924, and the additional taxes and penalties
provided by § 35, Title 2, of the National Prohibition Act, is barred,
under § 5 of the Willis-Campbell Act, by a prior conviction based
on the same transactions as the taxes. 1?. 575.
37 F. (2d) 269, affirmed.
CERTioRAmi,

281 U. S. 713, to review a judgment of the

Circuit Court of Appeals which reversed a judgment of the
District Court for the Government,, 26 F. f(2d) 706, in a
suit to recover from the respondent taxes and penalties.
Assistant Attorney General Youngquist, with whom
Solicitor General Thacher and Messrs. John J. Byrne and
PaulD. Miller were on the brief, forthe United States.
Mr. E. Howard Mcaleb, Jr., with whom Mr. E. Howard McCaleb was on the brief,, for respondent.
MR. JUSTicE, SUTH nIw delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Respondent was sued in a federal district court for Ronpayment of taxes and penalties. The petition alleged
that he had sold intoxicating liquor at various times in
his restaurant, and by reason thereof had become a retail
liquor dealer and incurred liabilities as follows: In the
sum of $37.50, retail liquor dealer's tax, under R. S.
§ 3244 for a period of nine months, doubled under § 35,

57Q

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

Title 2, of the National Prohibition Act; $4.68, penalty
imposed by R. S. § 3176, as amended, for failure to make
-and file a return as a retail liquor dealer; $1,500, special
tax under § 701 of the Revenue Act of 1924 for engaging
in the business of retail liquor dealer in Louisiana contrary to the law of that state, being for a period of nine
months and doubled under § 35; $500, penalty, in addition to the retail liquor dealer's tax imposed by § 35.
Prior to the commencement of the action respondent
had been convicted and fined upon an information filed
by the United States under the National Prohibition Act,
charging him with the same unlawful sales of intoxicating
liquor set forth in the petition as the basis for the imposition of the taxes and penalties sought to be recovered.
There is no dispute about the facts. They are alleged in
the petition and, in detail, made the subject of a stipulation of the parties in'the district court. Pleas of former
jeopardy and of res judicatawere overruled by the district
court, a jury was waived, and judgment for the United
States entered for the full amount sued for. The court of
appeals reversed the judgment on the ground that the
action was barred by § 5 of the Willis-Campbell Act.
37 F. (2d) 269.
The point is made that respondent failed to enter an
exception to the order of the district court overruling the
pleas, but, since the -facts were agreed to by stipulation.
entered of record, the failure to note an exception to the
order will not preclude their -consideration. Certainly
it does not. appear that an exception was necessary to
direct the mind of the trial court to the precise point
to afford opportunity for reconsideration, which is one
of the functions of an exception. United States v. U. S.
Fidelity Co., 236 U. S.512, 529; Fillip on v. Albion Vein
Slate Co., 250 U. S. 76,82. And an exception is not necessary to open for our consideration a question of law apparent on the record, as it is here, where there is nothing'

UNITED STATES v. LA FRANCA.
568

Opinion of the Court.

in the record to indicate waiver of the respondent's rights.
Denver v. Home Savings Banc, 236 U. S. 101, 103-104.
By § 35, Title 2, of the National Prohibition Act, c. 85,
41 Stat. 305, 317 (U. S. C., Title 27, § 52), it is provided
that the act"shall not relieve anyone from paying any taxes or
other charges imposed upon the manufacture or traffic
in [intoxicating] liquor. No liquor revenue stamps- or
tax receipts for any illegal manufacture or sale shall be
issued in advance, but upon evidence cf such illegal
manufacture or sale a tax shall be. assessed against, and
collected from, the person responsible for such illegal
manufacture or sale in double the amount now provided
by law, with an additional penalty of $500 on retail dealers
and $1,000 on manufacturers."
Section 5 of the Willis-Campbell Act, c. 134, 42 Stat.
222, 223 (U. S. C., Title 27, § 3), so far as pertinent here
provides:
"That all laws in regard to the manufacture and taxation of and traffic in intoxicating liquor, and all penalties
for violations of such laws that were in force when the
National Prohibition Act was enacted, shall be and continue in force, as to both beverage and nonbeverage
liquor, except such provisions of such-laws as are directly
in conflict with any provision of the National Prohibition
Act or of this Act; but if any act is a violation of any of
such laws and also of the National Prohibition Act or of
this Act, a conviction for such act or offense under one
shall be a bar to prosecution therefor under the other."
By § 701, par. 9, of the Revenue Act of 1924, c. 234, 43
Stat. 253, 327 (U. S. C., Title 26, § 206), it is provided
that every person carrying on the business of retail liquor
dealer, etc., in any state, etc., contrary tjo the laws of
such state, etc., or in any place where the carrying on of
such business is prohibited by local or municipal law, shall
pay in addition to all other taxes, $1,000. This section

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

was passed in lieu of a similar provision in the Revenue
Act of 1918, repeated in the Revenue Act of 1921.' The
government, accordingly, treats the item sought to be
recovered under § 701 as having been imposed by an act
in force prior to the National Prohibition Act. With that
view we agree.
Of the four items involved, two unmistakably are penalties, and are so denominated. The other two, notwithstanding they are called taxes, are in their nature also
penalties. Putting aside for later consideration the item
of $4.68, we consider, for the present, only the other three
items.
By § 35, supra, it is provided that upon evidence of an:
illegal sale under the National Prohibition Act, a tax shall
be assessed and collected in double the amount now provided by law. This, in reality, is but to say that a person
who makes an illegal sale shall be liable to pay a "tax"
in double the amount of the tax imposed by preexisting
law for making a legal sale, which existing law renders
it impossible to make. A tax is an enforced contribution
to provide for the support of government; a penalty, as
the word is here used, is an exaction imposed by statute
as punishment for an unlawful act. The two words are
not interchangeable, one for the other. No mere exercise
of the art of lexicography can alter the essential nature
of an act or a thing; and if an exaction be clearly a penalty
it cannot be converted into a tax by the simple expedient
of calling it such. That the exaction here in question is
not a true tax, but a penalty involving the idea of punishment for infraction of the law is settled by Lipke v.
Lederer, 259 U. S. 557, 561-562. See also Regal Drug'
Corp. v. WardeI1, 260 U. S. 386. There is nothing in
United States v. One Ford Coupe, 272 U. S. 321, or
Murphy v. United States, 272 U. S. 630, to the contrary.
The first of these cases was a proceeding to forfeit an
automobile because used in violation of law; the other

UNITED STATES v. LA FRANCA
568

Opinion of the Court.

was a suit in equity to enjoin the occupation and use of
premises for a year because used in thi commission of
offenses under the National Prohibition Act, and to abate
the maintenance as a nuisance. The distinction made by
these four cases is that in the first two, the purpose of the
proceedings was punishment; while, as to the other two,
the purpose in the first case was to enforce a simple tax,
not one which had been, as here, converted, by a change
of its nature, into a penalty, and in the second case the
purpose was prevention. Murphy v. United States, supra,
p. 632. Respondent already had been convicted and
punished in a criminal prosecution for the identical transactions set forth as a basis for recovery in the present action. He could not again, of course, have been prosecuted
criminally for the same acts. Does the fact that the
second case is a civil action, under the circumstances here
disclosed, alter the rule?
In Uidted States v. Chouteau, 102 U. S. 603, a distiller
and his sureties 'were sued upon a bond, one of the
breaches of which was that the distiller had removed
spirits from his distillery without first paying the tax
thereon. To this it was pleaded that before the suit was
brought two indictments had been found against the distiller for the same removals, and that upon the recommendation of the Attorney General the government had
accepted a specified sum in compromise and satisfaction
of the indictments, which were thereupon dismissed and
abandoned. The court held that the compromise was the
same in principle as a conviction in the criminal proceedings, and that the action was barred; and at page 611 said:
"Admitting that the penalty may be recovered in a
civil action, as well as by o criminal prosecution, it is still
as a punishment for the infraction of the law. The term
(pefialty' involves the idea of punishment, and its character is not changed by the mode in which it is inflicted,
whether by a civil action or a criminal prosecution. The

574

OCTOOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

compromise pleaded must operate for the protection of
the distiller against subsequent proceedings as fully as a
former conviction or acquittal. He has been punished in
the amount paid upon the settlement for the offence with
which he was charged, and that should end the present
action, according to the principle on which a former acquittal or conviction may be invoked to protect against
a second punishment for the same offence. To hold otherwise would be to sacrifice a great principle to the mere
form of procedure, and to render settlements with the
government delusive and useless,"
In United States v. McKee, 4 Dill. 128, where the
defendant was indicted, convicted and punished for conspiring with others to defraud the United States by unlawfully removing distilled spirits from their distilleries
without the payment of taxes, it was held by Mr. Justice
Miller and Judge Dillon, sitting together, that this constituted a bar to a civil suit to recover the penalty of
double the amount of the taxes of which the government
had been defrauded by means of the conspiracy, the transactions in both cases being the same. To the same effect,
see United States v. Gates, 25 Fed. Cas. 1263, Case No.
15,191.
In the light of these decisions it is clear that if the
Willis-Campbell Act be so construed aF to justify a recovery in this case, a grave question as to the constitutionality of the act will be presented. The decisions of this
court are uniformly to the effect that "A statute must be
construed, if fairly possible, so as to avoid not only the
conclusion that it is unconstitutional but also grave
doubts upon that score." United States v. Jin Fuey
Moy, 241 U. S. 394, 401; United States v. StandardBrewery, 251 U. S. 210, 220; Baender v. Barnett, 255 U. S.
224, 226. Doubts as to the meaning of the Willis-Campbell Act, in respect of the questions here for consideration,
therefore , must be resolved in acq v&- -,-vith this rule.

UNITED STATES v. LA YRANCA
568

575

Opinion of the Court.,

Section 5 of the act covtinues in force all laws in regard
to taxation of, and traffic in, intoxicating liquor and pen'alties for violations of such laws as were in force when
the Natioiial Prohibition Act was enacted; but with the
proviso that a conviction for an act or offense under one
shall be a bar to prosecution under the other. The question whether this proviso applies to the present case
turns mainly upon the scope and meaning of the word
"prosecution," since there is no doubt that respondent
had been convicted under the National Prohibition Act
of the offense of making the same illegal sales as those
alleged as a basis for the imposition of the "taxes" and
penalties sought to be recovered in the civil action. The
government contends that the word implies a criminal
proceeding and can not be extended to include a civil
action. But an action to recover a penalty for an act
declared to .be a crime is, in its nature, a punitive proceeding, although it take the form of a civil action; and
the word "prosecution" is not inapt to describe such an
action. In the McKee case, supra, Mr. Justice Miller
evidently held that opinion, since he used both the words
"offense" and "prosecution" in characterizing the civil
action there under consideration. In any event, we
should feel bound to resolve a greater doubt than we now
entertain in favor of that interpretation of the word so
as to avoid the grave constitutional question which otherwise would arise.
We find no merit in the contention of the government
that, as additional amounts resulted from doubling the
taxes imposed by R. S. § 3244 and § 701 of the Revenue
Act of 1924 and adding penalties, the civil action, in so
far as the additional -amounts are concemed, arose solely
under the National Prohibition Act, and not, as the WillisCampbell Act contemplates, under preexisting acts. )Except for these prior statutes, there- would be no basis for
seeking to impose a liability on respondent for the

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

amounts sued for in the civil action. Section 35 of the
act, in effect, amended the preceding statutes in the particulars stated; and, as thus amended, these statutes now
are to be read, as to all subsequent occurrences, as if they
had originally beeni in the amended form. Blair v. Chicago, 201 U. S. 400, 475; Pennsylvania Co. v. United
States, 236 U. S. 351, 362; Kelleher v. French, 22 F. (2d)
341, 347; Cumberland Tel. & Tel. Co. v. Memphis, 200
Fed. 657, 660-661; Farrellv. State, 54 N. J. L. 421, 423424; Russell v. State, 161 Ind. 481, 482. Th hold that the
acts of respondent in question were not violations of these
preceding laws as amended, as well as of the National
Prohibition Act, would be to give a narrow and strained
application to this provision of the Willis-Campbell Act,
and to raise the very doubts in respect of its constitutionality which we are bound to avoid if reasonably it can
be done.
The government seeks to draw a distinction between
the item of $4.68 and the other items, on the ground that
the former constitutes a penalty for failure to make and
file a return, and respondent was never charged with, or
convicted of, an offense involving that omission. Neither
the court of appeals nor the district court dealt with the
question. The decisions in both courts proceeded upon
the theory thatall of the items were subject to the same
rule; and the record plainly indicates that this was and
had been the theory of the government throughout until
it came to the preparation of its final brief in this court.
The distinction now made was not referred to in the government's petition for certiorari, or in the brief filed in
support of it. The point suggests questions which the
court of appeals should have been given an opliortunity
to decide, that is to say, whether a second jeopardy results
from the fact, if it be such, that the recovery of the penalty depends upon proof of the same criminal offense of
which respondent had theretofore been convicted; and

VARIOUS ITEMS v. UNITED STATES.

577

Syllabus.

568

whetlier requiring under penalty a return as a retail liquor
deAler, amounting, as it plainly does, to an admission of
cripinal liability, violates the rule against compulsory
self-incrimination. In this situation we do not now
feel called upon to consider or decide the point. If the
government, in view of the foregoing and of our decision
upon the questions in respect of which the.writ of certiorari was granted, shall still desire to press its contention,
it will be given an opportunity to do so by first presenting
it to the trial court.
The judgment of the court of appeals will be affirmed
and the cause remanded to the district court for further
proceedings in conformity with this opinion, without
prejudice to the further consideration and determination
by the district court of the question of liability. in respect
of the item of $4.68.
Affirmed.

VARIOUS ITEMS OF PERSONAL PROPERTY ET AL.
v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 114. Argued January 27, 1931.--Decided February 24, 1931.
1. There is no constitutional objection to the forfeiture of property
used in defrauding the United States of the exaction provided by
§ 600 (a) of the Revenue Ili of 1918, as amended (which imposes
a "tax, ) greater than and including the basic tax, on all distilled
spirits diverted to beverage purposes), whether such exaction be a
true tax or a penalty, or partly-vne and partly the other. P. 579.
2: Where a diversion was accomplished by the withdrawal of pure
alcohol, which was then specially denatured and in that condition
sold, to the contemplated end that, after it had passed into the
hands of purchasers, it -would be "cleaned" and finally used for
beverage purposes, it was a diversion of distled spirits to beverage
purposes under § 600 (a). P. 580.
22110 °-31-37

