704

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Counsel for Parties.

282 U. S.

The judgment will be reversed and the cause remanded
to the District Court for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.
SARANAC AUTOMATIC MACHINE CORPORATION v. WIREBOUNDS PATENTS COMPANY
ET AL.

_

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 51.

Argued January 13, 1931.-Decided February 24, 1931.

1. Patent No. 1,128,145 (Claim 25), granted to Inwood and Laven-"
berg, fot mecl~anical means of holding in proper relative positions
side piedes and.step-mitered end cleats, preformed and separate,
while joining thehf by stapling and wiring into a foldable boxblank,--held inValid for want of. invention. P. 711.
2. The. method of making the box-blanks out of separate, preformed
pieces, suitably held for stapling and wiring, was involved in and
disclosed by an earlier, and now expired, product patent to the
same persons. P. 709.
3. The present patent (Claim 25) covers only a mechanical means,
useful in pursuing that method but which did not in itself involve
invention. It can not be construed as embracing the method,
nor be given the effect of extending the monopoly, of the expired
patent. P. 714.
37 F. (2d) 830, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 281 U. S. 711, to review a decree holding a
patent valid and infringed and reversing a decree of the
District Court, which adjudged otherwise, 24 F. (2d) 872.

Messrs. Howard M. Cox and Amasa C. Paul for petitioner.
Mr. Laurence A. Janney, with whom Mr. Edward F.
Dunne, Jr., was on the brief, for respondents.

SARANAC MACH. CO. v. WIREBOUNDS CO. 705
704

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
In this case certiorari was granted, 281 U. S. 711, to resolve a conflict of decision between circuit courts of appeals with'respect to the validity of Claim 25 of Patent
No. 1,128,145, granted February 9, 1915, application filed
October 27, 1904, to Inwood and Lavenberg, for a machine
for making box blanks. In the present suit, brought by
respondents in the District Court for Western Michigan
to enjoin infringement of this and other patents, the District Court held the patent "invalid if infringed," and
entered a decree for petitioner, 24 F. (2d) 872, which the
Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit reversed, holding
Claim 25 valid and infringed. 37 F. (2d) 830. The Court
of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit had held the patent
invalid, Wirebounds Patents Co. v. Gibbons Box Co., 25
F. (2d) 363, affirming a decree without opinion of the
District Court for Northern Illinois..
The present suit was based odn three patents, all issued
to the same patentees: the machine patent, already referred to; No. 1,128,144, issued February 9, 1915, application filed October 14, 1904, for a "work holder," used in
connection with the box ,blank machine; and No.
1,128,252, issued February 9, 1915, application filed April
21, 1914, for a method of making wirebound boxes. The
first two were based upon-co-pending applications filed in
October, 1904, a~id the third upon a divisional application
cut out of the work holder application. Typical claims
are printed in the margin.1 A fofirth product patent, now
'-Machine Patent No. 1,128,145, Claim 25. A machine for maldng
box blanks comprising work-controlling means having cleat-positioning means to receive sectional cleats in parallel lines, and spacing
means to space cleats endwise from each other in each line, preparatory to connecting said cleats in their spaced relation, said workcontrolling means being arranged to receive side material to be secured
22110°-31----45

706

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

exPired and only indirectly involved, was No. 799,854,
issued to the same patentees September 19, 1905, application filed October 17, 1904 (reissued in 1907, No.
12,725), covering a specific form of box blank, which could
be produced by the use of the machine and method
patents, but also might be made without resort to either.
The court below, after pointing out that the three patents directly involved were all issued on the same day
and will expire at the same time, and that there could be
no commercially important infringement of any of the
patents which did not infringe the machine patent, limited its decision to determining the validity and infringement of Claim 25 of that patent. It gave the usual decree for injunction and accounting with respect to this
claim, and dismissed the bill as to the work holder and
method patents, but with leave to counsel to apply for
further consideration of any other claim of the patents in
suit if deemed necessary to settle the controversy. ND
to said cleats; fastener applying means for securing binding means
to the side material and cleats controlled by the work-controlling
means; means for relatively feeding the work-controlling means and
fastener applying mechanism for securing said binding means across
the intervals between said spaced cleats to secure them together in
their spaced relations to form a foldable blank.
Machine Patent No. 1,128,145, Claim 55. A machine for making
box blanks comprising a plurality of groups of work-controlling means,
each group for a separate individual side section of the box, and
comprising means to support cleats and side material in co~perative
relationship for being secured together to form a box side, and each
group having means to support its cleats and side material in a relationship to enable the same to be folded co6peratively with corresponding portions of a side section controlled by another group; and
means to secure wire binding to the respective side sections and to
provide wires for connecting one section and another in foldable
.relationship.
Work holder Patent No. 1,128,144, Claim 6. Work-controlling
means for use in the manufacture of wire bound boxes comprising,
in combination, cleat-positioning means to receive a plurality of

SARANAC MACH. CO. v. WIREBOUNDS CO. 707
704

Opinion of the Court.

such application was made; and it was conceded at the
bar that the disposition here of the issues raised with respect to Claim 25 will be, for all practical purposes, determinative of the case.
By the teachings of the Inwood and Lavenberg patents,
to which reference has been made, wirebound box blanks
may be produced, consisting usually of four panels which
may be conveniently folded and attached to box ends so
as to form strong, light weight, commercially useful boxes.
The blanks, before folding, comprise the panels of side
material in straight edged sheets of thin 'wood or veneer,
stapled, at each end, to cleats placed at right angles to the
side material, the staples straddling reinforcing wire.
The cleats, which, have previously been step-mitered or
bevelled, and which in practice are usually eight in number, one at each end of the four panels of side material,
are fastened to the side material in such position, with respect to it and to each other that, when the blank is
folded, the reinforcing wires serve as hinges; the ends
rows of cleats disposed substantially end to end; and cleat-spacing
means relatively adjustable to suit individual cleats of different
lengths to be received in said positioning means.
Method Patent No. 1,128,252, Claim 2. The method of making
wirebound boxes having individual cleats and individual side pieces
separated at the lateral corner edges of the completed box and connected by wires at said edges, which comprises assembling previously
formed individual cleats with the separate previously formed side
material for an individual side to provide a side unit of the box;
assembling additional such side units fo provide the other sides of
the box; securing to the cleats of each side unit a wire binding extending completely across said unit; connecting said side units by said
wire binding, while leaving the latter laterally flexible to accommodate
relative shifting of the separate meeting edges of the pieces of side
material, airanging said side units in box form; and completing the
continuity of the wire binding; whereby relative longitudinal shifting
of meeting edges of pieces of side material tends to bend the wirebinding out of normal alinement, and is resisted by the tensile strength
of the wire.

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

of adjoining cleats engage; and the panels form the four
sides of a box, with or without overlapping edges, as may
be preferred.
Before In ood and Lavenberg, the method of manufacturing box blanks, under the so-called Rosback patents,
had been to form a blank of 9 single sheet of side material,
stapled, at each of its two sides, to a single cleat. The
rigid blank formed by this first step was then prepared
for folding by a second and distinct mechanical procedure,
in the course of which each of the cleats was cut into four
separate cleats, step-mitered at their ends, and the single
sheet of side material scored. The blank was then capable of being folded by bending the side material along
the scored lines so that the adjacent ends of the cleats
would meet. Before any of their applications, Inwood
and Lavenberg appear to have devised a machine or work
holder for holding in position, and fastening, pre-formed
cleats to a single piece of side material; but that did not
wholly eliminate the second part of the earlier procedure,
by which the side material was scored before folding.
The final step which brought them -to their improved
method was taken only when both cleats and side panels,
assembled in position, were fastened into a foldable box
blank by a single operation. The difference between the
two methods was that the old taught the production of
foldable relationships by cutting the rigid box blanks.
Inwood and Lavenberg taught the new by assembling
and fastening together the separate elements. Their
method constituted an important advance over the old,
which had not been commercially successful. The new,
by the substitution of a single for a two-step procedure,
saved the expense and inconvenience of double handling,
and made it practicable to use cleats which could be preformed in quantities cheaply," and permitted the use for
that purpose of short and otherwise waste pieces of lumber. It eliminated certain mechani-al difficulties of the

SARANAC MACH. CO. v. WIREBOUNDS CO. 709
704

Opinion of the Court.

old meth6d of mitering and scoring the rigid blanks, and
resulted in a product with fewer defects and which folded
more easily than the forms produced by the earlier.
Numerous details of the new procedure had been taught
by the prior art. The idea of folding wire- or metalbound sides into a box was old. Averill (1900, No.
661,481) and Rosback (1898, No. 608,796) specifically
taught the binding of the sides together with wire. Howenstine (1891, No. 453,479), Hamilton (1887, No.
373,828), and others had developed the idea of using preformed cleats attached or to be attached to a plurality of
side sheets. Rosback had developed elaborate machines
for step-mitering (1898, No. 609,630; 1899, No. 623,258);
and for stapling box blanks (1898, No. 614,348; 1899, No.
630,303); and devices for feeding box blank material into
the stapling machine (1899, No. 625,958, No. 636,068).
The conception of Inwood and Lavenberg which was
new, was that the pre-formed cleats and side materials
could be assembled and so positioned with reference to
each other, that they could be stapled together to manufacture, in the single stapling operation, the finished product, the box blank ready for folding. This constituted an
important advance over the use of the rigid box blanks
in the two-step method of the prior art, which had been
developed by Rosback. The new method had a large and
immediate commercial success; and we assume, as the
court below held, that it involved invention. See The
Barbed Wire Patent, 143 U. S. 275, 283; Kremewtz v.
S. Cottle Co., 148 U. S. 556, 560; Minerals Separation,
Ltd. v. Hyde, 242 U. S. 261.
This conception is that of the reissue (product) patent,
held valid as a basic patent in Wirebounds Patents Co. v.
Chicago Mill & Lumber Co., 238 Fed. 929, and by the
Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals in Wirebounds Patents
Co. v. Gibbons Box Co., supra.. As it has now expired,
the public is free to use the new procedure of making

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

wirebound folding box blanks, so far as taught by that
patent. The patent is for a product, an improved wirebound box blank, foldable into a box with overlapping
sides. It describes the earlier two-step procedure by
which therigid box forms were first assembled and then,
by a second separate step, prepared for folding by sepmitering the cleats and scoring the side material. The
specification of the patent is: " Our invention relates to
certain improvements in wirebound boxes, especially of
that class in which the blanks constituting the four sides
of the box are assembled and secured in relative position
to each other- prior to folding by reinforcing wires, and
has for its object the assembling and fastening together
such parts constituting the completed blank so that the
same when folded will produce overlapping edges of the
side sheets." The drawifhgs of the patent, which show
a completed blank ready for folding, read with the specifications, indicate unmistakably that the advance,
achieved by the improvement over the existing method of
manufacturing box blanks, was in the process by which the
product of the patent could be made by assembling and
positioning pre-formed cleats and sides, so spaced that,
when stapled, they will fold to form the four sides of a
box.

Thus this patent completely discloses the invention of
Inwood and Lavenberg and the advance which it made
over the prior art. It taught all that was disclosed by
their method patent, for the method claimed is but the
process of the now expired reissue patent resulting in the
*product of the patent. As only the validity and infringement of the machine patent are now before us, it is unnecessary to consider whether, for the reason just state*d,
the later method patent is invalid, although granted on a
co-pending application, as was held in Mosler Safe & Lock
Co. v. Mosler, 127 U. S.354, 361, or whether it is invalid

SARANAC MACH. CO. v. WIREBOUNDS CO. 711
704

Opinion of the Court.

because of the delay in filing the divisional application, as
was held by the District Court below.
All else embodied in the machine and work holder pat-

ents, we think, involved not invention, but the application of mechanical skill to the solution of the problem of
devising suitable mechanical means for the manufacture
of foldable box blanks by the process or method disclosed

by the reissue patent.
The prior art had taught how to construct a machine
which would fasten with staples the elements of the box
blank of the reissue patent. That of Rosback, No. 614,348
and No. 625,958, used for stapling the rigid box forms of
the earlier art, consisted of a stapler, stationary guides for
directing the sheets and cleats, and an endless chain with
attached pushers for feeding the materials along the
guides to the stapler. Once it became apparent that an
improved method could be employed in manufacturing
the completed box blank by assembling all its pre-formed
elements and holding them in their appropriate relative
positions while they were being fed through a stapling
machine, it was equally apparent that the new method
could be used only by resort to some appropriate mechanical means for holding the elements of the blank in position until fastened. But the solution of that problem
was, we think, obvious, involving only the adaptation of
familigr mechanical means for holding cleats and sides in
place, and requiring no more than the mechanical skill of
the calling. That, we conclude, was all Inwood and
Lavenberg achieved by their work holder and machine
patents; and it is all that petitioner has done in the adaptation of the Rosback machine which it employs in the use
of the method which it is now free to make.
The work holder patent cesoribes and claims a portable
work holder, embracing two parallel channels in which
are placed the pre-formed cleats, their ends engaging space

12

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

blocks of such size, shape, and location as to hold the.
cleats in appropriate position.. The box 'sides, resting
upon the cleats so engaged, are positioned by the space
blocks and held in place by clamps. The work holder,
with the assembled elements of the box blank thus held in
position, is then passed through the stapling machine,
which staples together wire, sides, and cleats. Claim 25
of the machine patent, it will be observed, relates only to
cleat treatment. The mechanism which it claims could
be operated to make box blanks having multiple preformed cleats and a single piece of side material. It obviously would not, without some modification, hold both
cleats and .separate side panels in appropriate relAtive positions for stapling, and so could not be used for making
boxes by the improved method. As other claims, of the
machine patent may be taken to' supply this deficiency,
we assume, for present purposes, that Claim 25, with others of the machine patent, is broad enough to embrace thr
essential elements of the work holder, and that the work
holder is an exemplification of them. The machine patent, aside from the work controlling means, consists generally of a stapling head surmounting a table with feed
roller mechanism for pushing the work holder under the
stapler.
We think that the machine and work holder patents,
read separately or together, apart from such disclosure
as they make of the process or method of the reissue patent, disclose only the results of the application of mechanical skill to the development of a convemient mechanism for using the method. Petitioner, by the adaptation
of the Rosback machine which it uses to produce the box
blank of the reissue patent, has done no more. It has
increased the number of pushers to that requnired for the
-desired number of assembled separate elements-cleats
and side material. The pushers are spaced at appropriate distances and used in conjunction with a detent or
hold back,' so that, by the co-operation of the pushers

SARANAC MACH. CO. v. WIREBOUNDS CO. 713
704

Opinion of the Court.

and hold back, cleats and side material are held in appropriate positional relationship as they pass under the stapler.
By this multiplication of pushers, the Rosback machine
did for each panel only what it had previously done for
the single rigid box blank. In making the latter, as well
as the former, the pushers performed a positioning function, a fact which, alone, challenges the patentability of.
respondents' machine claim. With the old blank, as well
as the new, the pushers could not be placed at random,
and cleats and side materials both had to be brought into
appropriate relative positions. Moreover, the spacing of
the panels with reference to each other in box- or cratemaking machines of the Rosback type, by the use of a
plurality of spaced pushers on the same endless feed chain,
was old. Such an arrangement, where the pushers performed this positioning function, is shown in Greenstreet
(1895, No. 547,486; 1897, No. 579,574); and Lipps &
Springer (1905, No. 801,998).
The pushers and hold back, like the channels and space
blocks of the work holder, are familiar mechanical means
for holding materials in position while work is being done
upon them. Given the method of the reissue patent,
failure to adapt these obvious means to the solution of
the problem in hand would, we think, have evidenced a
want of ordinary mechanical skill and familiarity with
them. Their adaptation to the new use was not the creative work of the inventive faculty. It was "but the display of the expected skill of the calling, and involves only
the exercise of the ordinary faculties of reasoning upon the
materials supplied by a special knowledge, and the facility
of manipulation which results from its habitual and intelligent practice." Hollister v. Benedict Mfg. Co,; 113
U. S.59, 72, 73; Concrete Appliances Co. v. Gomery, 269
U. S. 177; Aron v. ManhattanRy. Co., 132 U. S. 84, 90.
The court below upheld the validity of the machine
patent because it had contributed to the market success
of the product, which could not have been attained with-

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282U.S.

out an automatic machine for its manufacture, and because it thought that the "dominating new result" was
to be found in the combination of machine elements. In
considering the objection that the machine patent did not
involve invention, it said, p. 836:
"It has been suggested that the disclosure made by
the method patent left no room for invention in the
machine patent. This suggestion cannot be of force, since
the patents were copending and one is not prior art as
against the other, even-if they had not both been issued
on the same day ....

If by the suggestion it is meant

that the primary thought was 'in the method and that
little or no invention was needed to make a machine,
once the method had been conceived, that may be true;
but that, cannot militate against the validity of the
machine patent when the two are practically simultaneous, for in such case the concept involved in the
method is an important and perhaps a vital part of the
machine invention. The concept which underlies and
precedes the machine may or may not involve an independently patentable method; in either event alike the
machine is patentable."
But this, we think, does not meet the objection, which,
more precisely stated, is that the machine and work holder
patents, fairly read, do not embrace a patent for the dominating new result, the process of the reissue patent, but
are patents for a particular combination of mechanical
means, useful, as is that of petitioner, in availing of the
process, but which, as we have said, does not involve invention. That the new result is not so embraced is apparent from respondents' insistence, to establish the
seniority of the machine invention over that shown by the
reissue patent, upon the early use, to which we have referred, of the Inwood and Lavenberg machine for stapling
a plurality of pre-mitered cleats to 'a single piece of side
material. But such use of the machine invention did not

SARANAC MACH. CO. v. WIREBOUNDS CO. 715
704

Opinion of the Court.

disclose or involve the conception of the reissue patent of
producing foldable relationships in one step, which, as
we have said, is the new result.
The machine and work holder patents describe and
claim only a combination of mechanical elements enumerated and arranged as stated in Claim 25, as we have
construed it. This combination, which had been found
suitable for manufacturing blanks with a plurality of
pre-formed cleats and a single piece of side material, was
suitable for using the process of the reissue patent, as is
the combination used by petitioner. Such possibilities of
use might be spelled out of the machine and work holder
patents by one skilled in the art and familiar with the
process described in the reissue patent. But nowhere do
they describe or claim, as the invention of the patent, the
new method or procedure of Inwood and Lavenberg,
which was their improvement on the prior art. That is
told in full in the reissue patent, and it is there that the
dominating new result appears. Obviously, from what
we have said, if the method concept which underlay and
preceded the machine had not been independently patentable, the machine could not have been. For the same
reasons, the machine cannot be patentable merely because
it is capable of use in applying a conception independently
patentable.
The question therefore is not one of reliance upon the
prior art of the reissue patent as against a co-pending
patent, or of double patenting, or of the overlapping of
specific and generic patents. It is the attempted extension of the monopoly of the expired reissue patent in
Inwood and Lavenberg's invention by resort to the machine patent, and to the work holder from which the described invention had been subtracted by division, and
which cover, not the invention of the reissue patent, but
a mechanical device which does not involve invention.
Reversed.

