374

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Statement of the Case.

282 U. S.

conduct for the Commission. But the appellant's rights,
as respects procedure, depend not alone ,on the alleged
requirements of the Act, but on the adeqiiacy of the
hearing in fact afforded him; and his substantive rights
under the statute depend upon the public interest, convenience or nec.essity in view of all the facts adduced and
circumstances appearing before the Commission. We are
not advised what sort of hearing was held, nor what facts
were proved. If the proceeding was an unfair one, as
lacking adequate notice, full hearing, or development of
all relevant facts, appellant had a remedy provided by
the-statute, which in the orderly processes of the administration of the law he was bound to pursue. To answer
the question as framed we should have to treat the proceedings before the Commission as irrelevaiit; to hold
that body's interpretation of the language-of the act as
applied to appellant in all the circumstances of his case
as of no Inoment; and to ignore his admitted failure to
avail himself of the right of review conferred by the statute. The question need not be answered.
The certificate is dismissed."
AMERICAN BOND AND MORTGAGE COMPANY
ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 210. Argued December 5, 1930.-Decided January 5, 1931.
Certificate presenting substantially the same questions as in White v.
Johnsonj ante, p. 367, dismissed on the authority of that case.
CERTIFICATE

from the Circuit Court of Appeals, on an

appeal from a decree of the District Court enjoining the
operation of a broadcasting station in violation of the
provisions of the Radio Act.

FAWCUS MACHINE CO. v. UNITED STATES.
374

375

Syllabus.

Mr. George W. Swain, with whom Messrs. Frank H.
Scott and Edward B. Hayes were on the brief, for American Bond and Mortgage Company et al.
Solicitor General Thacher, with whom Messrs. Charles
H. Weston and William G. Davis, Special Assistants to
the Attorney General, were on the brief, for the United
States.
MR. JusTIcE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The same Circuit Court of Appeals which certified questions in White v. Johnson, ante, p. 367, also certified six
questions in this case. While they are differently phrased,
they are in substance the same.
Here a suit in equity was brought by the United States
to restrain the proprietor of a broadcasting station from
disregarding an order of the Federal Radio Commission,
revoking its license, and from operating in defiance of the
provisions of the Radio Act. As in the other case, the
appellants admittedly failed to avail themselves of the
right of appeal afforded by the Act.
The reasons stated in the White case for not answering
the questions therein certified apply here.
The certificate is dismissed.
FAWCUS MACHINE COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 40. Argued December 12, 1930.-Decided January 5, 1931.
1. Administrative regulations contemporaneously construing a statute
and made for its enforcement under an express general authoriza,tion contained therein, and which are not unreasonable or inconsistent with the statute, will not be overruled except for weighty
reasons. P. 378.

