216

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Syllabus.

282 U.S.

WILLCUTS, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL
REVENUE; v. BUNN.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 22. Argued December 2, 1930.-Decided January 5, 1931.
1. The profits derived by an investor in municipal bonds from their
sale by him at a higher price are taxable as income under the
Revenue Act of 1924. P. 223.
2. Federal taxation of such profits is not unconstitutional as a tax
on state instrumentalities. So held where it did not appear that
the bonds had been issued at a discount so that the gain derived
from their resale could be considered to be in lieu of interest.
P. 224.
3. The power to tax is no less essential to our governmental system
than the power to borrow money. To preserve the latter, it is not
necessary to cripple the former by exempting subjects which fall
within the general application of-, non-discriminatory tax laws,
where their taxation lays no direct burden upon a governmental
instrumentality, and exerts only a remote, if any, influence upon
the exercise bf the functions of government. P. 225.
4. In the case of the bonds of a State or its political subdivisions, the
subject held to be exempt from federal taxation is the principal and
interest of'-the bonds. Such obligations being contracts of the
State or subdivision, a tax upon the amounts payable by their
terms has been regarded as bearing directly upon the exercise of
the governmental borrowing power. P. 226.
5. But sales of such bonds by'.their owners, after they have been
issued, are transactions distinct from the governmental contracts
in the bonds; and the profits on such sales are in a different category of income from the interest payable on the bonds. P. 227.
6. Sales of such bonds by those who have invested in them cannot
be deemed inseparably connected with the exercise of the borrowing.power ofthe State, so as to make immune from federal taxation
the profits of the sales. P. 228.
7. Before the power of Congress to lay the excise in question can
be denied as imposing a burden upon the State's borrowing power,
it must be made to appear that the burden is real, not imaginary;
substantial, not negligible. Pp. 230, 234.

WILLCUTS v. BUNN.
216

217,

Argument for Petitioner.

8. The .assertion that such taxes operate to burden governmental
power to borrow, is at variance with uniform and long established
practice. The history of income tax legislation is persuasive, if
not controlling, unon this question of practical effect. Pp. 232, 234.
35 F. (2d) 29, reversed.

280 U. S. 551, to review a judgment affirming a recovery by the present respondent in his suit against
the Collector for money paid the latter, under protest, as
an additional income tax.
CERTIORARI,

Assistant Attorney General Youhgquist, with whom
Attorney, General Mitchell, and Messrs. J. Louis Monarch and Morton Poe Fisher, Special Assistants'to the
Attorney General, Clarence M. Charest, General Counsel,
and T. H. Lewis, Jr., Special Attorney, Bureau of Internal Revenue; were on the brief, for petitioner.
When bonds are sold by a municipality, the price is the
then market price. The prospect of profit in excess of the
interest or discount is not held out as an inducement.
Possible profit from resale, as well as possible loss, depends upon eventualities. It is one of the risks accepted
by the owner. The interest on the bond comes to the
owner without further effort on his part. It is an exact
obligation. of the municipality, met with regularity. But
gains or losses from sale by the owner result from a combination of factors, including business judgment and
sagacity in purchases and sales. The gain, briefly, is derived from a combination of capital, industry, and skill.
Tax Commissioner v. Putnam, 227 Mass. 522, 531. And'
the tax upon income, including such gain, is not a tax
upon any sum received pursuant to the contract provisions of the bond. It is submitted that the use of the
general term "income" in certain of the opinions of this
Court dealing with the immunity of obligations of the
States from taxation by the United States, or vice versa,

218

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Argument for Petitioner.

282 U. S.

is not controlling on the question of the immunity of the
particular sort of "income" represented by such a gain.
The rulings of the Treasury Department (0. D. 647,
3 C. B. 123; O. D. 737, 3 C. B. 49; O. D.762, 4C. B. 31)
have consistently held that where. a municipality originally issues a bond at a discount and redeems it at par,
the return represented by the discount is interest in another form and not taxable; but the exemption has been
limited to the amount of the discount, and profit resulting to the holder from the sale has-been held taxable.
The court below held that a tax upon income, to the
extent that it includes gain from the sale of exempt securities, is an unwarranted interference with and burden
upon the exercise by the municipality of the vital function of borrowing money. This conclusion was based
upon the premise that the tax would have an economic
effect upon the price of -such securities. The theory is
applicable to the present case only if the United States
is restrained by a rule, without exception, to the effect
that it can not levy'any tax which may, to the slightest
perceptible degree, place a burden upon the marketing
of municipal securities, or to such degree render them less
saleable. -Plummer v. Coler, 178 U. S. 115, 136, 137,
demonstrates that the rule is by no means so stringent.
See also Orr v. Gilman, 183 U. S. 278; Greinerv. Lewellyn, 258 U. S. 384.
The relation of the tax to the security in this case is
more remote than a tax on transfers of decedents' estates
measured by a value which. includes exempt securities.
The injury here is neither obvious nor appreciable. The
borrowing capacity of States and municipalities has not
been curtailed. See National Life Ins. Co. v. United
States, 277 U. S. 508, 532.
The cost to States, counties, and cities of borrowed
money has remained practically constant in a rising money

WILLCUTS v. BUNN.
216

Argument for Respondent.

market. Grimes & Craigue, Principles of Valuation, 1928,
p. 204.
See Nauts v. Slayton, 36 F. (2d) 145, 147; Flint v. Stone
Tracy Co., 220 U. S. 107; Macallen Co. v. Massachusetts,
279 U. S. 620; Metcalf & Eddy v. Mitchell, 269 U. S. 514,
523; Heinerv. ColonialTrust Co., 275 U. S. 232; Gillespie
v. Oklahoma, 257 U. S. 501.
The broad provisions of the income tax laws were intended to include income generally. Irwin v. Gavt, 268
U. S. 161, 166. It is clear that § 213 (a) of the Revenue
Act of 1924, is broad enough to require gains from the sale
of municipal securities to be included in gross income.
The provisions of the Constitution will not preclude such
tax inless the burden is obvious and appreciable. Every
presumption is in favor of the constitutionality of an Act
of Congress. Nicol v. Ames, 173 U. S. 509; Stratton's
Independence v. Howbert, 231 U. S. 399; St. Louis S. W.
Ry.v. Arkansas, 235 U. S. 350, 369.
Mr. CharlesBunn for respondent.
The fundamental basis of the exemption of instrumentalities of States from federal taxation (and vice versa)
is no doubt still the necessity of self-preservation announced in Collector v. Day, 11 Wall. 113. But this
Court has made it clear that there are certain instrumentalities of States so closely connected with their existence
as independent Governments that any tax upon them by
the United States is void. Metcalf & Eddy v. Mitchell,
269 U. S.514, 524.
Where the instrumentality is of this class, exemption
does 'not depend upon degree of burden. Gillespie v.
Oklahoma, 257 U. S.501, 505; Metcalf & Eddy v. Mitchell, supra,p. 522. In this class fall municipal securities.
Weston v. Charleston,2 Pet. 449, 468; Pollock v. Farmers
Loan & Trust Co., 157 U. S.429, s. c., 158 U. S.601.

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Argument for Respondent.

282 U. S.

This Court has not made close distinctions between
income generally and the special form of income strictly
known as interest. In several cases where the income
was held to be exempt it was not interest at all. Gillespie
v. Oklahoma, supra; Choctaw & Gulf R. Co. v. Harrison,
235 U. S. 292. And in other cases where the income was
strict interest the Court has generally rested the exemption on the broader ground, that it was income. Pollock
v. Farmers Loan & Trust Co., 157 U. S. 583-586, 601-604
652, 653, s. c., 158 U. S. 61&, 666, 680, 693.
Nor has this Court made close distinctions as to' the
manner in which income from exempt instrumentalities
is made. The principle is 'not that payments made by
the municipality are free from tax because so paid, but
that "the right to tax the contract, to any extent, when
made must operate upon the power to borrow before it is
exercised, and have a sensible influence upon the contract.
The extent of this influence depends upon the will of a
distinct government. To any extent, however inconsiderable, it is a burden on the operations of the government." Weston v. Charleston,2 Pet. 449, 468.
It is therefore clearly settled that any direct tax by
either Government on income from the public secifrities
of the other is prohibited. The remaining question is
whether the income in this case was in fact derived from
the municipal securities in question or whether it was,
as claimed by the petitioner, "derived from a combination
of capital, industry and skill."
Respondent is not a dealer in securities. He bought
these bonds for cash, and as investments. He held them
for five years. It is very difficult in fact to assign the
profit which he realized upon the sale td anything except
the securities themselves. It was simply a portion of the
income which he made by the investment of his capital.
In Eisner v. Macomber,252 U. S. 189, at p. 207, this Court
defined "gain derived from capital." Within that defini-

WILLCUTS v. BUNN.
216

Argument for Respondent.

tion, this income was derived from the capital invested in
these securities, and not from industry or labor.
The contention that a direct tax on the income from
municipal securities is void is not weakened by a demonstration that Federal Estate Tax may be imposed on the
transfer of state bonds (Greiner v. Lewellyn, 258 U. S.
384), or vice versa (Plummer v. Coler, 178 U. S. 115), or
that a State may tax bank shares at a value based in part
on the bank's holding of federal securities (Van Allen v.
Assessors, 3 W Hl. 573), or that Congress may tax banks
although part of their deposits are state funds (Manhattan Co. v. Blake, 148 U. S.412), or that a corporation
excise tax may be measured by net income which includes
interest from tax exempt, securities (Flint v. Stone Tracy
Co., 220 U. S. 107). In all these cases the tax is on a
legitimate .andseparate subject of taxation, and is not held
improper (subject to the limitation enforced in Macallen
Co. v. Massachusetts, 279 U. S. 620) because part of the
measure of the tax results from property which would be
exempt if taxed directly. So no doubt it would be proper
to impose an excise tax on the business of dealing in securities, measured by the profits of the .business, although"
some of the securities dealt in were municipals. But that.
is not this case.
The tax is illegal because it is in fact an appreciable
burden upon the borrowing power of the States. It cannot be disputed that the usual inducements to an investment purchase of securities are two: the direct return in
dividends or interest expected, and the hope of profit by
increased value of the security itself. The second inducement is no doubt most present in the case of common
stocks, but that it is absent in the case of fixed income
-securities is not a safe assumption. The State, like other
solvent borrowers, may sell securities either at high coupon rates at par or at a premium, or at low coupon
rates at a discount below par. Most private borrowers

222

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Amicus Curiae.-

282 U. S.

find it good business to adopt the latter plan. The
reason obviously is that the certain increment of value
as bonds approach maturity induces lenders to accept a
lower direct interest return. Also, in a time of generally
high interest rates, fixed interest securities are favored by
.competent investors'because they know that, as the going
rates of interest decline, the value of the security itself
is certain to increase. That increment in many cases can
only be realized by sale. A tax upon it is a tax on a gain
that the investor hopes to make by his investment.
Necessarily it tends to compel a higher coupon rate upon
state bonds than would otherwise be needed. It is a
burden on the State, only one step less direct than a tax
on the interest itself.
This was the view of both the courts below, and. was
quite recently the view of the Treasury Department as
to federal securities, as evidenced by bills prepared by the
Department and recommended by the Secretary to the.
Congress, to authorize the sale of Treasury bills, noninterest bearing, upon a discount basis. See United
States Daily, Apr. 23, 1929, pp. 429, 435, Apr. 25, 1929,
p. 457. The bills were passed in an amended form. Act
of June 17, 1929, c. 26, 46 Stat. 19. But the form in
which they were prepared by the Department demonstrates its expert view that taxation by the States on the
profits made by sale of federal secuiities would affect
adversely the excellent market which such securities command. The burden works both ways, and, if this conclusion of the Treasury was right, it follows that federal
taxation of gains made on sale of municipal securities is
a burdeil on the States. As such, it is invalid.
Messrs. Joseph E. Warner, Attorney General of Massachusetts, R. Ammi Cutter, Assistant Attorney General,
and Henry F. Long, Commissioner of Corporations and

WILLCUTS v. BUNN.
216

Opinion of the Court.

Taxation, by special lave of Court, filed a brief on behalf
of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts as amicus curiae.
Messrs. Hamilton Ward, Attorney General of New
York, and Henry S. Manley, Assistant Attorney General,
by special leave of Court, filed a brief on behalf of the
State of New York as amicus curiae.
MR. CH IEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
The respondent, .Charles W. Bunn, in the years 1919
and 1920, purchased for cash, as investments, bonds issued
by various counties and citie in the Stte of Minnesota.
In January, 1924, he sold these bonds, realizing a net
profit of $736.26. Upon this net profit, less a net loss of
$41.20" suffered by him on similar bonds held less than
two years, the Commissioner of Internal Revenue determined an additional income tax in the amount of
$85.44. The plaintiff paid this amount, to the Collector,
under protest, and claimed a refund upon the ground that
the tax was illegal because assessed upon income from
municipal bonds. The claim was rejected and this suit
was brought against the Collector to recover the money
paid.
The complaint, alleging these facts, charged that the
Revenue Act of 1924, if thus applied, was unconstitutional and void in that the tax was laid upon the instrumentalities of States. Demurrer to the complaint was
overruled by the District Court, and, the defendant having declined to plead further, judgment was entered for
the plaintiff. The judgment was affirmed by the Circuit
Court of Appeals, and this Court granted a writ of
certiorari.
The Rleyenue Act of 1924 (c. 234, see. 213, 43 Stat. 253,
267, 268, U. S. C. Tit. 26, sec. 954) clearly authorized the

224

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

tax. The Act included in the term "gross income" the
gains and profits derived from " sales, or dealings in property, whether real or personal." See Irwin v. Gavit, 268
U. S. 161, 166. The Act gave an express exemption to
"interest upon the obligations of a -State, Territory or
any .political subdivision thereof," but this exemption was
not extended to profits realized on the sale of such obligations, and the statement of the Government is not challenged that it has been the uniform practice of the Treasury Department in administering the federal income tax
acts to include in taxable income the gain derived from
the sale of state and-muni~ipal bonds.
The authority of the Congress to lay a tax on the profit
realized by an investor from the sale or conversion of
capital assets in general is not open to dispute and is not
disputed. That is a matter of governmental policy and
not of constitutional power.1 The question raised here is
not because the securities sold were capital assets but
because they were governmental in character.
The question is further limited by the fact that it does
not appear that the securities were issued at a discount,
so that the gain derived could be considered to be in lieu
of interest. Whatever questions might arise in cases of
that sort are not now before the court.2 The present case
is, simply one of profit obtained from purchase and sale,
without qualification by any special circumstances.
The well-established principle is invoked that a tax
upon the instrumentalities of the States is forbidden by
I Merchants'.Loan and Trust Co. v. Smietanka, 255 U. S. 509, 519,
520; Goodrich v. Edwards, 255 U. S. 527; Walsh v. Brewster, 255

U. 2 S. 536.

ItIfappears that the Treasury Department has ruled that where a
municipality originally issues a bond at a discount and redeems it at
par, the return represented by the discount is interest in another form
and is not taxable. See 0. D. 647, Cumulative Bulletin No. 3, July- December, 1920
p. 123; 0. D.'737, id. p. 49; 0. D. 762, Cumulative
Bulletin No. 4, January-June, 1921,'p. 31.

225

WILLCUTS v. BUNN.
Opinion of the Court.

216

the Federal Constitution, the exemption resting upon
necessary implication in order effectively to maintain our"
dual system of government.3 The familiar aphorism is
"that as the means and instrumentalities employed by the
General Government to carry into operation the powers
granted to it are exempt from taxation by the States, so
are those of the-States exempt from taxatign by the General Government." Ambrosini v. United States, 187
U: S. 1, 7. And a tax upon the obligations of a State or.
of its political subdivisions falls-within the constitutional
prohibition as a tax upon the exercise of the borrowing
power of the State. Pollock v. Farmers' Loan & Trust
Company, 157 U. S.429, 584-586; id., 158 U. S. 601, 618;
National Life Insurance Company v. United States, 277
U. S.508, 521.
The limitation of this principle to its appropriate applications is also important to the successful wdrking of
our governmental system. The power to tax is no less
essential than the power to borrow money, and, in preserving the latter, it is not necessary to cripple the former
by extending the constitutional exemption from taxation
to those subjects which fall within the general application
of non-discriminatory laws, and where no direct burden is
laid upon the governmental instrumentality, and there is
only a remote, if any, influence upon the exercise of the
functions of goverinment. This' distinction has had abundant illustration. Thus, while the salary of an officer of
the State cannot be taxed by the Federal Government,
the compensation paid by a State or a municipality to a
3 Collector v. Day, 11 Wall. 113, 127; United States . Railroad
Company, 17 Wall. 322' 327; Mercantile Bank v. New York, 121
U. S. 138, 162; Pollock v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Company, 157
U. S. 429, 584-586; id., 158 U. S. 601, 618; Ambrosini v. United
States, 187 U. S. 1, 17; .Metcalf & Eddy v. Mitchell, 269 U. S. 514,
523; National Life Insurance Company v. United States, 277 U. S.
508, 521.
'

22110°-31-15

226

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.

Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

consulting engineer, who is neither an officer nor an employee of governmet for Work on public projects, may
be'subjected to a, federal income tax. Metcalf & Eddy v.
Mitchell, 269 U3. S. 514, 524. No constitutional implications prohibit a non-discriminatory tax upon the property
of an agent of government merely because it is the property of such an agent and used in the conduct of the
agent's operations and necessary for the agency. McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 436; Railroad Company
v. Peniston, 18 Wall. 5,33; CentralPacific RailroadCom.pany v. California, 162 U. S. 91, 126; Baltimore iShipbuilding Company v. Baltimore, 195 U. S' 375, 382; Choctaw, Oklahoma & Gulf Railroad Company v. Mackey,
256 U. S. 531, 537. The Congress may tax state binks
upon the average afifunt of their deposits, although deposits of state funds by state officers are included. Manhattan Company V.Blake 148 U. S. 412. Both the Con-:
gress and the States have the power to tax transfers or
successions in case of death, and this power extends to
the taxation by a State of bequests to the United States,
and to the taxation by the Congress of bequests to States
or their municipalities. United States v. Perkins, 163
U. S.,625; Snyder v. Bettman, 190 U. S. 249, 253, 254.
In the case of the obligations of a State or of its political
subdivisions,, the subject held to be exempt from federal
taxation is the principal and interest of the obligations.
Pollock v. Farmer Loan& Trmst Company, supra. These
obligations constitute the contract made by the State, or
by its political agency pursuant to its authorify, and a
tax upon the amounts-payable by the terms of the contract has therefore been regarded as bearing directly. upon
the exercise of the borrowing power of the government.
In Weston. v, Charleston,2 Pet. 449, 468, 469, where the
tax, laid under an ordinance of the city council upon
United States stock which had been issued for loans made
to the United States, was held invalid, the pyinciple was

WILLCUTS v. BUN.N.
216

227

Opinion of the Court.

thus stated by-Chief Justice Marshall: "The right to tax
the Contract to any extent, when made, must operate upon
the power to borrow, before it is exercised, and have a sellsible influence on the contract. The extent of this influence depends on the will of a distinct government. To
any extent, however inconsiderable, it is a burden on the
operations of government. . . . The tax on government stock is thought by this Court to be a tax on the
contract, a tax on the power to borrow money on the
credit of the United States,, and consequently, to be repugiant to the constitution." This language was applied
by the Court in Pollock v. Farmers'Loan & Trust Company, supra,(157 U. S. at p. 586) in holding invaid federal taxation "on the interest" from municipal securities.
But it does not follow, because a tax on the interest
payable on state and municipal bonds is a tax on the
bonds and therefore forbidden, that -the Congres cannot
impose a non-discriminatbry excise tax upon the profits
derived from the sale of such bonds. The sale of the
bonds by their owners, after they have been issued by
the State or municipality, is a transaction distinct from
the contracts made by the government in the bonds themselves, and the profits on' such sales are in a different
category of income from that of the interest payable 'on
the bonds. Because the tax in question is described as an
"income tax" and the profits on sale, are included in
"income," the distinction is not lost between the nature
of a tax applied to interest and that of a tax applied to
gains from sales. The federal income tax acts cover taxes
of different sorts. Brushaber v. Union Pacific Railroad
Company, 240 U. S. 1, 17; Stanton v. Baltic Mining Company, 240 U. S. 103, 114. The tax upon. interest is levied
upon the rTturn which comes to the owner of the security
according to the provisions of the obligation and without
-any further transaction on his part. The tax falls upon
the owner by virtue of the mere fact of ownership, regard-

228

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

less of use or disposition of the security. The tax upon
profits made upon purchases and sales is an excise upon
the result of the combination of several factors, including
capital investment and, quite generally, some measure of
sagacity; the gain may-be regarded as "the creation of
capital, industry and skill.
Tax Commissioner v.,Putnam, 227 Mass. 522, 531.
The tax not being on the obligations of the State or
municipality, or on the investment therein, as such, the
question is whether the tax must nevertheless be held to
be invalid because sales by investors are- to be deemed
inseparably connected with the exercise of the borrowing
power of the State. When the Constitution prohibits
States fromlaying duties on imports, the prohibition not
only extends to a tax upon the act of importing, but also
to one upon the occupation of the importer or upon the
articles imported. A tax on the sale of an *article,.irmported only f6r sale, is a tax on the article itself. Browh
v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419, 444. Siniilarly, with respect
to federal taxation of articles exported. from any State,
the constitutional inhibition gives immunity to the process of exportation and to the transactions and documents
embraced in that process. Fairbankv. United States, 181
U. S.283; United States v. Hvoslef, 237 U. S. 1; Thames
& Mersey Marine Insurance Company v. United States,
237 U. S.19. Only on that construction can the constitutional safeguard be maintained. Again, when the United
States has assumed duties with respect to Indian lands,
A State cannot impose an -occupation-or privilege tax on
operations conducted'-in or upon such lands by lessees
who have been constituted federal instrumentalities for
the purpose of discharging the Government's obligation,
Choctaw, Oklahoma & Gulf Railroad Company v. Harrisnn, 235 U. S.292, 298, or upon the leases themselves or
capital stock representing them, Indian Territory Illumi-

WILLCUTS v. BIOIN.
216

229

Opinion of the Court.

nating Oil Company v. Oklahoma, 240 U. S. 522, 530, or
uppn the net income of such a lessee, Gillespie v. Oklahoma, 257 U. S. 501, 504. See, also, Jaybird Mining
Company v. Weir, 271 U. S. 609, 612.' These cases are
not analogous to the one under consideration. If the tax
now in question is to be condemned, it must be because of
practical consequences and not because purchases and
sales by private owners of state and municipal bonds are a
part of the State's action in borrowing monek . It would
be far-fetched to say 'that such purchases and sales a.
instrumentalities of the State. They are not transactions
made directly or indirectly in behalf of the State or in the
course of the performance of any duty of the State. Sales
are merely methods of transferring title to the obligation,
that is, the right to receive performance of the promise of
the, State -or municipality.
That a transfer of government bonds is not inseparably
connected with the exercise of the Government's borrowing power so as to make the transfer per se immune from
taxation is clearly demonstrated by the decisions upholding non-discriminatory taxation laid upon the transmission of such securities upon the death of the owner. This
Court has decided that a State may lay a transfer tax upon
a legacy although it consists entirely of bonds of the
United States, Plummer v. Coler, 178 U. S. 115, and that
the Congress may tax the transfer of the net assets of a
decedent's estate although municipal bonds are included
in determining the net value, Greiner v. Lewellyn, 258
U. S. 384. In Plummer v. Coler, subra (p. 125), the tax
of the State was sustamned, despite the provision of the
Act of Congress under which the bonds were issued that
they should be exempt "from taxation in any form by
or under State, municipal, or local authority." Id, pp. 134,
4Compare McCurdy v. United States, 246 U. S. 263; Shaw v.
Gibson-Zahniser Oil Corporation,276 U. S. 575, 578, 579.

230

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the-Court.

282 U.S.

135; Act of July 14, 1870, c. 256, sec. i, 16 Stat. 272; Rev.
Stat., sec. 3701; U. S. C., Tit. 31, sec. 742. See, also Orr v.
iklman, 183 U. S. 278, 289; Blodgett v. Silberman, 277
U. S. 1, 12, 13. And'in Greiner v. Lewellyr, supra (p.
387), the Court said that "the estate tax . . . like
the earlier legacy or succession tax, is a duty or excise,
and not a direct tax like that on income from municipal
bonds. Pollock v. Farmers' Ldan & Trust Company,
supra. . . . Municipal bonds of a State stand in this
respect in no different position from money payable to it.
The transfer upon death is taxable, whatsoever the character of the property transferred and to whomsoever the
transfer is- made. It follows that in determining-the
amount of decedent's net estate municipal bonds were
properly included." On similar grounds, as the Federal
Government has power to t x transfers of property by
gift inter vivos, Bromley v. McCaughn, 280 U. S. 124,
there would seem to be no question of its constitutional
authority to include in such taxation gifts of state or
municipal securities.
It is urged, however, -that a federal tax on the profits of
sales of such securities should be deemed, as a practical.
matter, to lay such a burden on the exercise of the State's
borrowing power as to make it necessary to deny tQ the
Federal Government the constitutional authority to impose the tax. No facts as to actual consequences are
brought to our attention, either by the record or by argument, showing that the inclusion in the federal tax of
profits on sales of state and municipal bonds casts any
appreciable burden on the States' borrowing power. We
are left to the inadequate guidance of judicial notice. It
may be considered to be a matter of common knowledge
that the bonds of States and their municipalities are for
the most part purchased for investment. But while, in
the.language of the tax act regarding dedu~tions-for losses,
the purchase of municipal- bonds for investment, as in the

WILLCUTS v. BU/NN.
216

Opinion of the Court.

case of other investments, may be regarded as "entered
into for profit " as distinguished from mere personal use,
it mar be doubted whether the prospect on the part of the
ordinary investor of obtaining profit on the resale of such
obligations is so important an element in inducing their
acquisition that a federal tax laid on such profits, in common with profits derived from the sales of pther property,
constitutes any substantial interference with the fuiictions
of state governments. While the tax is laid on gains,
there is also a deduction for losses on. sales, and whether
investors in such securities would consider it an advantage
if both provisions were eliminated is a matter of.mere
speculation.. It must be remembered that we are dealing,
not with any express constitutional restrictiQn, but only
with an asserted implication. The constitutional provisions authorizing the Congress to lay taxes (Article I,
Section 8; Sixteenth Amendment), are certainly broad
enough to cover the tax in question, and before wo cani
restrict their application upon the ground of a burden cast
upon the State's borrowing power, where the tax is not laid
upon the contracts made by the State in the exercise of
that power, or upon the amounts payable thereunder, but
is laid upon the result of distinct transactions by private
owners, it must clearly appear that a substantial burden
,upon the borrowing power of the State would actually be
imposed. But we have nothing but assertion and conjecture. The assertion might as easily be made as to the
necessity of the complete immunity of such securities from
federal taxation in the case of estate taxes, and, if mere
conjecture were sufficient as to the possibility of a burden
being cast by the tax on the essential authority of the
State, it could be as readily .entertained in the one case as
in the other. Indeed, the existence of the illegal burden
might be. more easily assumed in the case of the estate
tax, where the entire value of the securities, and not
merely gains on sales, are taken into the reckoning in
determining the amount of the tax.

232

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

There is, however, an outstanding fact, more important
than any possible conjecture. That fact is found in uniform and long-established practice. This practice clearly
indicates that neither the Federal Government nor the
States have found a tax on the profits of the sales of their
securities to be a burden on their power to borrow money.
So far as we are advised, the Federal Government has not
at any time deemed it to be necessary to exempt from
taxation the profits realized by owners on the sale of its:
obligations, with, the exception, recently made, of shortterm Tr easury bills issued on a discount basis and payable
without interest.5 Such profits are included in the general
5 In Gray v. Darlington,15 Wall. 63, where the question related to
the federal tak under the Act of March 2, 1867, 14 Stat. 477, 478,'
upon the profits on the sale of bonds of the United States, the po.t
of the decision was that the statute applied only to annual "gains,
profits and income" and did not extend to the increase in value of
the bonds which had taken place in several prior years and was rea*
ized in the preceding year. But it was not questioned that annual
gains or profits on the sale of government bonds -were taxed by the
Act. See Hays v. Gautey Mountain Coal Co., 247 U. S. 189, 191.
In 0. D. 729, Cumulative Bulletin No. 3, July-December, 1920,
pp. 123, 124, the Treasury Department ruled: "In the case of Treasury certificates of indebtedness which are offered by the Government at par and accrued interest and not at a discount, only the
coupon interest can be considered exempt from normal tax, and from
surtax to the extent provided by the act approved September 24,
i917. Where such certificates are subsequently purchased at a discount, the difference between the purchase price and the par value of
,the certificates received at maturity is profit subject to both normal
tax and -surtax. The subscriber for Treasury certificates who sells
them at a discount sustains a deductible loss, which is the difference
between the par value of the certificates and the selling price. Any
gain or L- on the sale of Treasury certificates of indebtedness prior to
maturity should be determined in accordance with section 202 of the
Revenue Act of 1918."
'In the 71st Congress, 1st session, an amendment was proposed to
section 5 of the Second Liberty Bond Act as amended (40 Stat. 290,

WILLCUTS v. BUNN.
216

Opinion of the Court.

phrase "gains, profits and income" from "sales, or dealings in property," in the Act under consideration. And
we understand that under all federal income tax acts,
these or similar words have been construed invariably by
the administrative authorities as including profits derived
from the sale of state and municipal bonds. The present
case appears to be the first in which the tax in this respect
has been assailed. No State has ever appeared at the Bar
of this Court to complain of this federal tax, and it is not
without significance that in the present instance the
U. S. C., Tit. 31, § 754), providing for the issue of Treasury bills "on
a discount basis and payable at maturity without interest" and that
[subdivision (b)] all certificates of indebtedness and treasury bills
issued thereunder "both as to principal and interest, and any
gain frdm the sale or other disposition thereof shall be exempt from all taxation (except estate or inheritance taxes) now or
hereafter imposed by the United States, or by any local taxing
authority; and no loss from the sale or other disposition thereof shall
be allowed as a deduction, or otherwise recognized, for the purposes of
any tax now or hereafter imposed by the United States or any of its
possessions!' H. R. 1648, 71st Cong., 1st sess. The committee reports in the Senate and House of Representatives state that the
amendment, in relation tq both certificates of indebtedness and the
new Treasury bills, "provides that gain from the sale of 'either shall
be tax exempt, with the necessary supplementary provision that any
loss shall not be recognized. Inasmuch as these are short-term obligations, any advance in price will as a practical matter represent
nothing more than interest!" 71st Cong., 1st sess., H. R. Rep. No.
13, Sen. Rep. No. 9, The words above italicized were, however,
dmitted in the act as passed. Act of June 17, 1929, c. 26, 46 Stat.
19, 20. By Act of June 7, 1930 (c. 512, 46 Stat. 775), a similar provision as to ta-x on profits on sales, but limited to the short-term
Treasury bills issued at a discount, was enacted. The committee
report in the House of Representatives stated that the reason for
this enactment was found in the special nature of such Treasury bills.
71st Cong., 2d sess., H. R. Rep. Nos. 1609 and 1759. Aside from
these Treasury bills, the federal tax on profits on sales of federal
securities has not been changed.

234

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Syllabus.

282 U. S.

.States of New York and Massachusett do appear here
as amici curiae in defense of the tax.'
The history of income tax legislation is persuasive, if
not controlling, upon the question of practical effect.
Plummer v. Coler,supra,(pp. 137,138). Before the pdwer
of the Congress to lay the excise tax in question can be
denied in the view that it imposes a burden upon the
States' borrowing power, it must appear that the burden
is real, not imaginary; substantial, not negligible. We
find no basis for that conclusion, nor. any warrant for
implying a constitutional restriction to defeat the tax.
Judgment reversed.
URAVIC, ADMINISTRATRIX, v. F. JARKA
COMPANY, INCORPORATED, ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW YORK.

No. 32. Argued December 8i 1930.-Decided January 5, 1931.

Section 33 of the Merchant Marine Act, which, in connection with
the Employers' Liability- Act, gives an action at common law to,
6

Undoubtedly each of these States has in view the circumstance
that it subjects to its own income taxation the gains derived from
'the sale of federal securities, and it does not desire, in the absence
of an applicable legislative restriction, t6 be'depri, ed of that source
of revenue as-a corollary of a decision against the power of the Federal
Government to tax the gains derived from the sale of state s6curities.
The State of New York disavows any claim that "the tax in ques-.
tion has any appreciable tendency to burden its fiscal operations" or
those of its municipalities. The State of Massachusetts contends
that: "1. The non-discriminitory taxation of all gains derived from
the use of business knowledge and of human ingenuity in dealings
in intangible property can have no material effect to impair the
ability of a government to issue its bonds and obligations, even if
gains from the sale of such bonds are subjected to the tax. 2. The
history of the exemption of state instrumentalities from Federal
- taxation and of the exemption of Federal instrumentalities from state
taxation reveals that the doctrine of exemption has protected governmental obligations only from taxation of :the principal amount of
such obligations and of the stated interest upon such obligations."

