, O'GORMAN & YOUNG v. HARTF'D INS. CO. 251
249

Syllabus.

would' yield something less than 7% on the approved
valuation of the property devoted to public use.
Having again heard the cause upon pleadings and
affidavits the court held that the valuation placed upon
the property by the Railroad Commission was too low.
and contrary to the evidence; also that the Commission's
estimate of operating expenses was too low and contrary
to the evidence; and further that the Commission's order
if enforced would cause confiscation. Accordingly, it entered a final decree restraining the defendants from taking
any steps to enforce the order.
After examining the findings and conclusioni and the
record upon which they axe based, we can find no adequate
reason for disapproving the result reached by the court
below.- Its decree will be affirmed.
The facts are peculiar; the applicable principles of law
have been stated in former opinions here. To enter upon
a detailed discussion of them at this time-vould serve no
useful purpose.
• Affirmed.

O'GORMAN AM) YOUNG, INCORPORATED, v.
HARTFORD FIRE INSURANCE COMPANY.
SAME v. PHOENIX ASSURANCE COMPANY,
LIMITED.
APPEALS FROM TBE COURT OF ERRORS AND APPEALS OF NEW
JERSEY.

Nos. 12 and 13. 1930.-Decided
Argued April January-5,
30, 1930. Reargued
October 30,
1931.

1. Thq business of insurance is so far affected with a public interest
that the State may regulate the rates, and likewise the relations of
those engaged in the business. P. 257.

252

OCTOBER TERM; 1930..
.'Argument for Appellant.-

.282U.S.

2. A New.Jersey statute declaring that-rates of insurance against
the hazards of fire shall be reasonable, and maldng it unlawful for
a fire insurance company to allow a commission to any person' for
acting as its local agent respecting such insurance, in excess of thit
allowed to any of its local agents on such risks.in the State, upheld,
upou the record in the case, as within;-he. power of the State to
regulate such rates. P. 257.
3. A state statute, dealing with a subject clearly within the police
power, can not be declarect void upon the ground +hat the specific
method of regulation prescribed by it is unreasohable, in the absence
of any factual foundation in the record:to overcome the presumption, of constitutdonality. Id.
4. It does not appear upon the face of the statute here in question,
or from facts of which the Court must take -judicial notice, that,
in New Jersey, evils do not exist in the businesq of fire insurance.
for which the statutoryprovsion is an appropriate remedy. P. 258.
105 N. J. L. 642, affirmed.

APPFAs from judgments affirming judgments against
the appellant in actions which it brought against the.
Insurance Companies to recover moneys claimed tq be
due to it for services as local agent. See also 105 N. 3. L.

645.
Mr. Walter Gordon Merritt, with #u.0m Mr. George
C. Austin was on the brief, for appellant.
The State has no power to regulate the amount of compensation to be paid fire insurance agents. Tyson & Bro.
v. Banton, 273 U. S. 418, 434; Wolff Packing Co. v. Industrial Court, 262 U. S. 522, 534, s. c. 267 U. S. 552, 566;
Liggett Co. v. Baldridge, 278 U. S. 105, 111; Adkins v.
Children'sHospital,261 U. S. 525; Truaq;v. Corrigan,257
U. S. 312, 338; Adair v. United ,States, 208 U. S. 161,
174-175;. Coppage v. Kandas, 236 U. S. 1, 14; Meyer v.
Nebraska, 262 U. S. 390, 400; Ribnik v. McBride, 277
U. S. 350; German Alliance Ins. Co., v. Lewis, 233
U. S. 389..
Price fixing or wage fixing cannot -be sustained exeeIt
under extraordinary 'circumstances. -The burden of. prov-

O'GORMAN & YOUNG v. HARTF'D INS. CO. 253
251

Argument for Appellant.

ing the facts to justify such a law rests upon those who
urge its validity.
The Legislature is without power.to prohibit private
contracts as to the amount of compensation to be paid by
employers to their adult employees. Wilson v. New,
243 U. S.332; Adkins v. Children'sHospital, supra; Wolff
Packing Co. v. Industrial Court, supra; Tyson & Bro. v.
Banton, supra; Ribnik v. McBride, supra; Tagg Bros.-&
Moorhead v. United States, 280 U. S. 420; Plummer v.
Railroad,31 F. (2d) 123, 124; Northwestern NationalIns.
Co. v. Fishback, 130 Wash. 490; NiagaraFireIns, Co. v.
Cornell, 110 Fed. 816,-821; O'Neil v. Providence Amusement Co, "42 R. I. 479; Northwestern Bell Tel. Co. v.
Spillman, 6 F. (2d) 663.
The power to regulate rates to be charged the public
does not imply' power to invade the field of private management. United Gas Co. v. Railroad Commission, 278
U. S. 300, 320; Banton v. Belt Line, 268 U. S. 413, 421;
'Southwestern Tel. Co. v. PublicService Comm., 262 U. S.
276, 289; Wolff Packing Co. v. Industrial Court, supra;
Chicago, M. & St. P. R. Co. v. Wisconsin, 238 U.S.491501; Interstate Commerce Comm. v. Chicago G. -W. Ry.,
Co., 209 U. S.108; Lake Shore Ry.'Co.v. Smith, 173 U. S.
684, 691; GreatNorthernRy. v. Minnesota,238 U. S.340;
Havre de Grace & Perryville B. Co. v. Towers, 132 Md.
16; Importers and Exporters v. Rhoades, 239 N. Y. 420,
426.
The New Jersey statute is arbitrary and unnecessary,
because' the declared purpose of promoting reasonable
insurance rates can be accomplished by the simple and
direct means of rate regulation, and is not in fact promoted by regulating the compensation of insurance agents.
Liberty of contract cannot be arbitrarily and unnecessarily interfered with under the guise, of protecting the
public. Jay Burns Baking Co. v. Bryan, 264 U. S. 504;

254

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

.282

U. S.

Liggett Co. v. Baldrge 278 U. S. 105; Fairmont Creamery Co. v. Minnesota, 274 U. S. 1, 11; Meyer v. Nebraska,
262 U. S. 390, 399-400; Chicago, B. & Q.1R. Co. v. McGuire, 219 U- S. 549, 569; Seattle Trust Co. v. Roberge,
278 U. S. 116, 121; McLean v. Arkansas, 211 U. S. 538;
Lawton v. Steele, 152 U. . 133; Lochner v. New York,
198 U. S. 45; Adair v. United States, 208 U. S. 161.
Assuming legislative power to regulate the compensation of fire insurance agents, the regulation in this case
is. an arbitrary and unconstitutional exercise of such
power.
And see Fairmont Creamery Co. v. Minnesota, 274
U. S. 1; Williams v. StandardOil Co., 278 U. S. 235, 244.
The statute is void for indefiniteness. United States v.
'Cohen Grocery Co.., 255 U. S. 81, 89; Connally v. General
ConstructionCo., 269 U' S. 385, 390; Cline v. Frink Dairy
Co., 274 U. S. 445, 453.
Mr. Ralph E. Lur for appellees.
The State has power to regulate the amount of commissions to be paid fire insurance agents. German Alliance Ins. Co. v. Lewis, 233 U. S. 389, 413; LaTourette v.
'McMaster, 248 U. S. 465-467; McCarterv. Firemen'sIns.
Co., 74 N. J. Eq.. 372.
The statute is not an arbitrary exercise of the power.
German Alliance Ins. Co. v. Lewis, supra; Chicago, B. &
Q. R. Co.-v. McGuire, 219 U. S. 549, 569.
It is clearly 'within the. province of the Legislature to
determine the means to achieve the desired result.
AIR.

JusTic

BRANDEIS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
These cases, which are here on appeals from the'highest
,court of New Jersey, were argued together: T.ey present
the qiiestion ,whether the folkodwing statutory, provison,

O'GORMAN & YOUNG v. HARTF'D INS, CO. 255
251

Opinion of the Court.

effective March 29, 1928,, is consistent with the due
process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment:
"In order that rates of ihoutance against the hazards
of fire shall be reasonable 'itshall be unlawful for any
such insurer licensed in this State to-.
allow . . any
commission . . in excess of a reasonable-amount, to
any person-for acting'as its agent in respect to any class
of such insurance, nor,
to allow . . any commission
.
to any person for acting as its local agent in
respect to any class of such insurance, in excess of that
. I. allowed to any one of its local agents on such risks
in this State." (New Jersey Laws 1928, c. 128, p. 258.)
In each case, O'Gorman and Young, Inc., a domestic
dorporation licensed as an insurance'broker, sues a licensed
foreign fire insurance company to recover a balance alleged to be due for services performed as local agent at
Newark after the effective date of the statute. In the
Phoenix Assurance Company case, the complaint is on
a contract terminable at will, made prior to the enactment
of the statute, by which the company agreed to pay to the
agent twenty-five per cent. of the premiums. In the
Hartford Fire Insurance Company case, the complaint
is on a contract, made after the enactment of the statute,
by which the defendant agreed to spay as compensation
"what such services were reasonably worth"- and the
complaint alleges that the services were reasonably worth
twenty-five per cent. of the premiums. Each complaint
alleges that the defendant has paid the plaintiff only
twenty per cent. of the premiums. Each answer admits
the facts alleged in the complaint. As a defense, it sets
up the statute and the fact that the defendant had at
the date of its enactment, and. ever since has had, several
persons acting as its local agents within the State to whom
the compensation allowed in respect to the same class of
business has been only twenty per cent. of the premiums.

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

Each case was heard upon a motion to strike out the
answer and for judgment on the ground that the statute
is void under the due process clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment. In each case the trial court denied the motion and entered judgment against the plaintiff, the facts
alleged in the answer being admitted. In an opinion discussing the question presented, that court said:
"Our statute provides that the'rates for fire insurance
'shall be reasonable.' Since the commissions paid to local
agents naturally' enter into the cost of such insurance to
the public, and therefore infltience the rates which must
be charged to the public for such insurance, it is within
the police power of the state to require that the commis-.
sions must be reasonable, otherwise such-large commissions might be allowed as to impair the financial stability
of the insurance companies, and thus imperil their ability
to meet their financial obligations to their policy holders.
"Since twenty per cent. is the amount of commissions
paid to some of its local agents, the effect of this legislation is to determine that a commission in excess of that
is unreasonable. The presumption is in favor of the reasonableness of the law until the contrary- is made to
appear.
"In the facts or argument, there is nothing to overcome
that presumption. . . ." 105 N. J. L. 645.1
"It is the settled practice in New Jersey that where the subject

regulated is properly within the scope of the police power of the
State, a charge of discrimination or lack of reasonable relation between the object of the act and the means employed, must be supported by facts in the record sufficient to overcome the general
presumption of constitutionality. Hopper v. 'Stack, 69 N. J. L.
562; Meehan v. Board of Excise Commissioners, 75 N. J. L. 557, 562;
Commercia Trust Co. v. Hudson County Board, 86 N. J. L. 424,
'affirmed, 87 N. J. -L.179; State v. Sutton, 83 N. '. L. 46, 49, affirmed,
87 N. J. L 192, 193, affirmed, 244 U. S.' 258; Public Service By. Co.
v. Public Utility Commissioners, 89 N. J. L. 24, 27, 28, affirmed, 254
U. S. 394; compare Thorne v. Town of Kearny, 100 N. J. L. 228,
aarmed sub. nom. Thornme v. Casale, 101 N. J. L. 418.

O'GORMAN & YOUNG v. HARTF'D INS. CO. 257
Opinion of the Court.

251

On that, opinion the, Court of Errors and Appeals
affirmed the judgments of the trial court. 105 N. J. L.
642. We think it was right in so doing.
The business of insrance is so far affected with a public
,interest that the Siate may regulate the rates, German
Alliance Insurance Co.v. Lewis, .233 U. S. 389; and likewise the relations of those engaged in thp business, La
Tourette v..McMaster, 248 U. S. 465; Stipcich v. Metropolitan Life Insurance Co., 277 U-i. S.311, 320. Compare
McCarter v. Firemen's Insurance Co., 74 N. J. Eq. 372,
382. The agent's compensation, being a percentage of
the premium, bears a direct relation to thd rate charged
the insured., The percentage commonly allowed is so large
that it is a vital element in the rate structure and may
seriously affect the adequacy of the, rate. Excessive commissions may result in an unreasonably high rate level or
in impairment of the financial stability of the, insurer.
It was stated at the bar'that the commission on some
classes of insurance is as high as thirty-five per cent.
Moreover, lack of a uniform scale of commissions allowed
local agents for the same service may encourage unfair
discrimination among policy holders by facilitating the,
forbidden practice of rebating. In the field of life insur-.
ance, such evils led long ago to legislative limitation of
agents' commissions.2
The statute here questioned deals with a subject clearly
within the scope of the police power. We are asked to
declare it void on the ground that the specific method of
regulation prescribed is unreasonable and-hence deprives
the plaintiff of due process of law. As underlying questions of fact. may condition the constitutionality of legislation of this character, -the presumption of constitutional2 Laws of New York, 1906, c. 326, § 97, pp. 794-797; Insurance
Law of New York., (Baldwin), 1930 Edition,. § 97, pp. 96-101. See
-

Report ".of Joint (Armstrong) Insurance Investigating Committee,
Feb. 22, 1906, pp. 399-417; Laws of -New Jersey, 1927, c. 167, pp.

324, 325; 1928, c. 128, p. 257. 22110°-31-17 -

.,Z8

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.

SVAN DEvATER, McRxxow.s, SuiTuAND and Buroa, JJ.,
dissenting.

282 U.S.

ity must prevail in the absence of some factual foundation
-ofrecord for overthrowing the statute." It does not appdar upon the- face 6f- the statute, or from any facts of
which the court must take judicial notice, that in New
Jersey evils did not exist in the, business of fire insurance
for which this statutory provision was .an appropriate
remedy, 5he action of the legislature and of the highest
court of the State indicates that such evils did exist.' The
record is barren of any allegation of fact tending to show
unreasonableness.
Affirn ed.
Separate opinion of MR. JusTicE VAw DVATF,
MR. JrsnOE SuTmE Aw

JusTrcE McREYwoLDs,

MR .

and

Mu. 'JUSTIcE BUTLER.
We are of opinion that the judgments below should be

reversed.
The Appellees (defendants below) are separate fire
insurance companies. The facts are not in dispute; both.
3 Close

v. Glenwood Cemetery, 107 UM S. 466, 475; Powell v.
Pennsylvania, 127 U, S. 678, 685; Lindsley v. Natural Carbonic Gas
Co., 220 U. S. 61,79, 83; Chicago Dock Co. v. Fraley, 228 U. S. 680,
687; Rast v. Van Ddin n & Lewis Co., 240 U. S. 342, 357; Wampler
v. Lecompte, ante, p. 172. Compam MinnesotaRate.Cases, 230 U. S.
352, 461; Henry Wolf Bikl, "Judicial determination of facts affecting the constitutional validity of legislative action." 38 Harv. I;.
Rev. 6.
'Compare Heath & Mulligan Mfg. Co. v. Worst, 207 U. S. 338,
355; Wlch v. Swasey, 214 U. S. 91, 108; Laurel Hill Cemetery v.
San Francisco, 216 U. S. 358, 365; Adams v. Milwaukee, 228 U. S.
572, 583; Barrett v. Indiana, 229 F. S. 26, 29; Patsone v. Pennsylvania, 232 U. .-138, 144; Price v. Illinois, 238 U. S. 446, 452; Bunting v. Oregon, 243 U. S. 426, '438; Dominion Hotel r. Arizona, 249
U. S. 265, 268. The alleged existefice of such evils throughout the
United States led recently to an enquiry by the, National Convention of Insurance Commissioners. See report of proceedings at
annual meeting Sept. 9, 1930. The United States Daily, Supplement
Seut P3, 1930.

O'GORMAN & YOUNG v. EARTF'D INS. CO. 259._
VAx DEVAiN'ER, MCRwOLDS, SuT]HEAwD and BUTLER, JJ.,

251

dissenting.

records present like circumstances and questions of law.
It will suffice here to point out the essentials disclosed inNo., 12.
O'Gorman and Young, a New Jersey corporation, under_
proper license-transacts business as 'an insurance broker ,
For many years it has been the agent of appellee,'a Connecticut -corporation authorized to issue fire policies in
New Jersey. Prior to March 29, 1928, the agreement of
employment provided that for negotiating and selling such policies the agent. should receive 25%o of prescribed premiums. On that day the original contract -was changed
and now itprovides that the agent shall be paid ' what such services were reasotiably Worth."
Acting under this modified arrangement, O'Gorman and'
Young negotiated and gold policies upon which the premiums amounted to $2,454.61. As reasonable 'compensation, demand was ndd for $613.68-25% of the
premiums. The Insurance Company paid $490.92, 20%,
and denied further liability.
Thereupon (October, 1928), Asserting that its services
were reasonably worth 26% of the premiums, O'Gorman
and Young brought an action against the Insurance Company in the Circuit Coukt, Es~ex County; New Jersey, to
recover $122.76. ' The complaint sets out. the foregoing
facts afid asks fbt- judghent; it says nothing concerning
any New Jersey statute.The answer admits the allegations of the complaint
except; "defendant denies that it owes the plaintiff the
sum of $122.76 as in said complaint alleged for the reasons hereinafter in this answer sdt forth." They are set
out.in the three paragraphs .itimediately below.
Chapter 128* Act-of the New Jersey Legislature approved March 29, 1928, .provides (Section 1) -"In order
_

*OHA>MER 128.
An Act to amend an act entitled "A further supplement to an act
entitled 'An act to provide for the regulation and incorporation 6f

260
VAN

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
MvArF,

McRPntNOIDs, STHE.AN1

dissenting.

and "BUTLER, JJ.,

282 1.S.

that rates for: insurance- against the hazards of fir6 shall
be reasonable it shall be unlawful for any such insurer
licensed in this State to directly or indirectly pay or allow,
or offer or agpee to alloW, any commission or other corninsurance companies and to regulate the transaction of insurance
business in this State,' approved April third, one thousand nine hundred and two," which said supplement was approved March eighteenth, one thousand nine hmndred and thirteen,
Bs rr, m'A*CTED by tfte Snate and GeneralAsseinbly of the $tate of
New Jersey:
1. Section one of the act of which this act is amendatory be and
the same is .hereby amended so that the same shall read as follows:
* 1. No corporation, firm, association, individual or aggregation of
individuals, hereinafter called "insurer," doing the business of insur-.
ance within this State shall fix or mak6 any rate or schedule of rates,
or charge, demand, collect or receive, directly or indirectly, or through
any special rate, tariff, dravback, rebate, concession, device or subterfuge, a rate for insurance, which discriminates unfairly betweep
risks" within this State of essentially the same hazard, nor shall any
insurer agains t6e hazards of fire or legal liability of employers make
any such insurance within this State except in accordance with general basis schedules, embodying, basis rates, charges, credits, terms,
conditions, permits, standards and other data necessary to the compuration of. equitable rates and rules of practice for such insurance,
vhich general basis schedules, embodying basis rates, charges, crdits,
terms, conditions, permits, standards and -other data used for the
determination of rates shall be filed by such insurer or its agent or
expert duly authorized, with the Commissioner of Banking and Insurance within three months after this act goes into effect, or with
the amendments to such general basis schedules which may be filed
with the Commissioner of Banking and Insurance from time to time
thereafter. Any one or more of such insurers singly or jointly may
efnploy for the maldng of such general' basis schedules and rates and
the.filing of the same the service.5 of such experts as it, or they, may
deem.advisable for such purpose. In order that rates'for insurance
against the hazards of fire shall be reasonable it shall be 'unlawful
for any such insurer licensed in this State fo' directly or indirectly
pay or allo*, ,or offer or agree to allow, any commission or other
compensation or anything of value, in excess-of a reasonable amount,
to any person for acting asits agent in respect to any class of such
insurance, nor to directly or indirpPtly pay or allow, or offer or agree

O'GORMAN & YOUNG v. HARTF'D INS. CO. 261
Vw DTAmmR, McRE

251

OLDS, SUTHERLAND

and

BUTLER, JJ.,

dissenting.

pensation-or anything of value, in excess of a reasonable
amount, to any person for acting as its agent in respect to
any class of such insurance, nor to directly or indirectly
pay or allow, or offer or agree to allow, any commission or
to allow, any commission or other compensation or anything of value,

to any person for acting as its local agent in respect to any class of
such insurance, in excess of that offered, paid or allowed to any one
of its local agents on such risks in this State. On the written complaint of any insurer or any agent licensed in this State, that there
has been any violation of the provisions of this act, or when the
commissioner deems it mecessary without such complaint, the commissioner shall inquire whether or not there has been any violation
of the provisions of this act in the' commissions paid or payable on
such risks in this State.
Every such insurer or agent shall, within ten days after written
demand therefor, furnish to any person, upon whose property or risk
a rate has been made by said insurer, or to his authorized representative, full information as to such rate, and if such property or
risk be rated by schedule applying particularly to each risk, a copy
of such schedule, and shall provide such means as may be approved
by the Commissioner of Banking and Insurance whereby any person
or persons affected by such rate may be heard on an application for
a change in such rate. Whenever it is made to appear to the satisfaction of the Commissioner of Banking and Insurance that any such
rate or general basis schedule or amendment thereof discriminates
unfairly between risks within this State of essentially the same hazard
or that any insurer tfas made any insurance within this State at any
rate not in accordance with the general basis schedule or amendment
thereof filed by it, he may, after a full hearing, either before himself
or before any salaried employee of the Department of Banking and
Insurance whose report he may adopt, order such discrimination
removed, or such rate corrected in accordance with such general
basis schedule or amendment thereof; and all such insurers affected
thereby shall forthwith comply with such order; nor shall such insurers or any of them remove such discrimination by increasing the
rates on any risk or class of risks affected by such order unless it is
made to appear to the satisfaction of the Commissioner of Banking
and Insurance that such increase is justifiable.
This supplement shall not apply to any contract of life insurance,
nor to any contract of insurance upon or in connection with marine
or transportation risks or hazards other than contracts for automo-

262

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.

VAN DnvAmm, MCREwNOLDs, SUAMur
dissenting.

N, and BumzR, JJ.,
282 U.S.

other compensation or anything of value, to any person
for acting as its local agent in respect to any class of, such
insurance, in excess of that offered, paid or allowed to any
one of its local-agents on such risks in this State."
Also -(secti-on-.2)>-'Any-insurer, agent-expert, person
or corporation violating any of the provisions of this act
shall be subject to a,penalty offive hundred dollarp for
each and every violation to be sued for and recovered by
the Commissioner of Banking and Insurance, or by any
citizen of this'State and paid to the State Treasurer. In
case. any, insurer is convicted of, a violation of this act,
every local agent of he insdrer in this State shall be
bile insurance, nor to contracts of insurance upon property or risks
located without this State,''norl to contracts of title insurance or
I
'
mortgage guaranty.
2. Sectioii' to of, the act of which 'his act is amefidatory'be and
the same P hereby amended so that the same shall read as follows:
2. Any insurer, agent, expert, person or corporation violating any
of the provisions of this act shall be subject to a penalty of five
hundred dollars foi each 'and every -violation to' be sued for and
recovered by the Commssioner of Banking'and Insurance, or by
any citizen 'of this Stdte ' and paid to the State Treasurer. In case
ahy insurer"is convicted of a violation of this act every local-agent
of the insurer in this State bhall be entitled' to the same commission
or compnsatiotn, or other thing of value, for business done for the
insurer during the calendar year'in which the disdrimination 'took
place, on risks inthis State, and any local agent may recover from
the insurer in any court of competent jurisdiction, the amount-of
such excess 'commissin - or 'compensation, or other thing 6f value,
if any, lx-iwhich' he may become .entitled under the provisions of
this act.
If any'section, provisions' or part of this act be questioned in any
c6urt of competent jurisdcfion, 'and declared to be unconstitutional,
the said section, clause or part shall be exscinded and the remainder
of the actshall continuein full force and effect.
3. This act shall take effect' immediately.
Passed March 29, 1928.

O'GORMAN & YOUNG v. HARTF'D INS. CO. 263
VA1g DEvAN=, MCRuYOLDS, SuHERAND

251

and BuTmnn, JJ.,

dissenting.

entitled to the same commission or compensation, or other
thing of value, for business done for the insurer during
the calendar year in which the discrimination took place,
on risks in this State, and any local agent may recover
from the *nsurer in any court of competent jurisdiction,
the amount of such excess commission or compensation,
or other thing of value, if any, to which he may become
entitled under the provisions of this Act."
" On and subsequently to March 29, 1928, this defendant had and now has several persons acting as its local
agents duly authorized to represent it in writing fire insurance in the State of New Jersey; that the commission
'allowed by'this defendant to its said several agents so
acting as aforesaid in respect to the class of insurance
mentioned in the said complaint was, on said last men-.
tioned day and from thence hitherto and now is, twenty
per centum on each premium charged; that pursuant to
the terms of the said statute*it became and was unlawful
on and after March 29, 1928,-to pay to the plaintiff herein
the commission of twenty-five per centum of the premium
charged, theretofore paid by this defendant to the' said
plaintiff."
Admitting that since March 29, 1928, a commission of
20% had been regularly allowed by the Insurance Company to certain agents in New Jersey and asserting the
invalidity of the Act of that date because of conflict with
^the Fourteenth Amendment, complainant moved to strike
out the answer as- insufficient. This motion was denied
and final judgment went for the defendant upon the
I
pleadings and admission.
The Circuit Court (Judge Dungan) said-'
"The other question is whether or not the act deprives
the-'plaintiffof 'its property without due process of law,'
and therefore is a violation of the 14th Amendment to
the Federal Constitution.

264

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.

V w DEVANTmR, McPoxn

s SunERT.AN

dissenting.

and Bummn, JJ.,
282 U. S.

"Federal and State laws are in favor of the regulation
of- the business affairs of persons and corporations which
affect the public interest, and there are federal and state
decisions in almost every state in this country upholding
the constitutionality of such laws, 'provided they are -reasonable. Of ''ourse the mere statement in the law itself
as to the reasonableness of its provisions-does not -make
them so, but that is a question to bedecided sometimes by
the Court and sometines by a jury. Whether or not the
business of a fire insurance company is affected with a
public interest is not an open'question in this state. In
McCarter,Attorney General v. Firemen's Ins. Co., 74 N.
J. Eq. 372 (at p. 383), our Cont of Errors and Appeals
said, 'The business of the defendants [insurance companies] is in point of fact one that directly, affects the
interests of the public, and such public interest has been
recognized as'a subsisting one by the Legislature of this
State, and that in point of law, the business of the
defendants is affected with a public interest.'
I" If the regulations prescribed are reasonable, they are
valid. Our statute provides that the rates for fire insurance 'shall be reasonable.' Since the commissidns paid
to local agents naturally enter into the cost of such insurance to the public, and therefore influence the rates which
must be charged to the public for such insurance, it is
within the police power of the State to require that the
commissions must be reasonable, otherwise such large
-commIssions'might be allowed as to impair the financial
stability of the insurance companies, and thus imperil
their ability to meet their financial obligations to their
policy holders.
"Since twenty per cent. is the amount of commissions
paid-to some of its local agents, the effect of this legislation is to determine that a commission ini excess of that is

O'GORMAN & YOUNG v. HARTFD INS. CO. 265
VAw DzVANrER, MtR-mmoLs, SUTHERLAND and BUTrLM, JJ.,

251

dissenting.

unreasonable. The presumption is in favor of the reasonableness of the law until the contrary is made to
appear.
"In the facts or arguments, tmere is nothing to overcome that presumption, and therefore the answers should
not be stricken out as an unlawful deprivation of the
plaintiff of his property without due process of law."
The Court of Errors and Appeals affirmed the questioned judgment "for the reasons expressed in the opinion
by Judge Dungan in the Circuit Court."
The matter for our consideration comes to this: A foreign in'surance Company, licensed to operate in New"Jersey, employed an agent and agreed to pay reasonable
compensation. The agent demanded 25% of the premiums collected. The Company paid 20% of these and
successfully resisted the claim for more upon the sole
.ground that "since twenty per cent. is the amount of
commissions paid to some of its local agents, the effect of
this legislation [Act March 29, 1928] is to determine that
a commission in excess of that is unreasonable." Ab-,
stractly stated, the principal paid "A" commissions at
the rate of 20%; therefore, it has been held, solely because
of the Act nothing above 20% can be recovered by "B,"
who claims under a contract fair on its face and not expressly inhibited, which definitely provides for reasor 2ble
compensation.
It cannot rightly be said that the burden of establishing any underlying disputable fact rests upon the appellant before it can successfully challenge the validity of the
questioned enactment. This is not a proceeding to enjoin
enforcement of a statute because of alleged discrimination
or other circumstance, the existence of which requires consideration of facts not known to the court. Opinions in
cases of that character are not in point. The court below

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
VANm DEVAN=ER, McREYNosS, SUTHEmuAND

dissenting.-

and Buim-, JJ.,
282 U.S.

ruled, in effect, that without regard to any evidence which
'might -be presented, the complainant, although relying
upoli a contract fair upon its' face; could recover nothing
above the rate allowed to another agent-that the statute
restricted the right to contract for services for reasonable
cmpensation. And We must determine 'whether, thus
construed, and in the absence of any emergency, the statute necessarily conflicts with the Fourteenth Amendment.
Is such legislation permissible in- the .ordinary circumstances of which the court ust take 'judicial notice?
Under German.Aliancq'Ins. Co. V. Lewis, 233 U.S. 389,
the appellant does not 'deny that -because of the public
interest involved reasonable rates for issuing fire insurance l policies may be fixed-by statute. But that decision
"marks the eitreme: limit' to which this court has thus
far gone in sustaining pricL-fixing legislation." Tysn &
Bro. v. Banton, 273 U. S. 418,-434.
The German Alliance Company questioned the Walidity•
of an order by the Su#6iimtehdent of Insurance of Kansas
which undertook to reduce its duly 'announced basic sched-'
ule' of' rates. The' definite point for decision was thus
stated: *"Whether a contract 'of fire insurance is. private,
and as such 'has constit-utional immunity from regulation.
Or, to state it differently and to express ati antithetical
proposition, is the business of' insurance so ,far affected
with a public interesf as t juistify legislative regulation
of its rates? And we mean a broad and definite 'public
interest." An dfirmative afiswer followed:
The decision is authoritative as to' the point o ruled,
but not otherwise. Nothing there determined would permit regulation of all the undertakings of an 'insurance
company. Here .we are not dealing directly with a contract to insure. And certainly it'does not follow that be&cause the State has power to regulate the rate for insur-

O'GORMAN &'YOUNG v. HARTF'D INS. CO. 267
VAN DEVANTER, MclRfnOmas, SuTHIXAND and BUTLER, JJ.,

251

dissenting.

ance she may control every agreement having-any possible
relation' thereto.
The public has no direct, immediate interest in the
agency contract here set up. Its concern ib with rates.
Like any other expense item, brokers' commissions may
ultimately affect the rate charged for policies; but this
is true of the wages of office boys, printers, bookkeepers,
actuaries, officers; the price paid for pens, ifik, or other
supplies--indeed whatever expense may be incurred.
Broadly speaking, the funds of an insurance company
come from premiums collected; and necessarily all 'disbursements are made therefrom and, therefore, in some
sense may be said to affect the necessary rate of charge..
The State may not permit a foreign Insurance Company to do business within her limits upon condition that
it shall submit to deprivation of rights guaranteed by the
Constitution. Western, Union Tel. Co. v. Kansas, 216
U. S. 1; Hanoverlns.Co. v. Harding;272 U. S. 494,508.
This Court has steadfastly upheld the general right to
enter into private contract and has definitely disapproved
attempts to fix prices by legislative fiat, "Freedom of
contract is, nevertheless, the general rule and restraint
the exception; and the exercise of legislative authority
to abridge it can be justified only by the existence of exceptional circumstances." "That the right to contract
about one's affairs is apart of the liberty of the individual
protected by this clause, [of the Fourteenth Amendment]
is settled by the decisions of this court and is no longer
open to question." Adkins v. Children's Hospital, 261
U. S. 525, 545, 546. Adair v. United States, 208 U. S. 161,
174, 175; Coppage v. Kansas, 236 U. S. 1, 14; Wilson v.
New, 243 U. S. 332; Adams v. Tanner, 244 U. -S.590;
Truax v. Corrigan,257 U. S. 312,338; Meyer v. Nebraska,
262 U. S. 390; Wolff Co. v. Industrial Court, 262 U. S.

268

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.

VAN DvANTER, McREYNOLDS, SuTrmuIAN
dissenting.

and BuTimR, JJ.,
282 U.S.

522; Tyson & Bro. v. Banton, supra;Ribnik v. McBride,
277 U. S. 350; Liggett Co. v. Baldridge,.278U, S. 105, 111.
Also it must be accepted as settled that the right to
regulate a business does not necessarily imply power to
fix the scale for services therein, or to trespass on the
duties of private management. Adams v. Tanner, supra;
Truax v. Corrigan,supra; Tyson & Bro. v. Banton, supra;
Southwestern Bell Tel. Co.-v. Public Service Commission,
262 U. S. 276, 289; Wolff Co. v. Industrial Court; supra.
Even if it be admitted that the power of the legislature
to~establish reasonable rates for insurance necessarily presupposes existence of the right to command or inhibit
what is essential to the accomplishment of that end, certainly this implied right extends to ,nothing which does
not clearly appear to benecessary for such purpose.
The statute under review does not prescribe a schedule
of rates or point out the basis for determination of reasonable rates; it leaves with each company the primary -right
and duty of deciding upon rates to be demanded. But
it inhibits payment to any agent, irrespective of the worth
of his services and without regard to any contract with
him, of anything in excess of what may be actually paid
to another agent. As construed, it declares that the
smallest compensation voluntarily paid to any agent shall
thereby become reasonable for every other agent. And it
permits an agent who has been paid'according to his agreement to recover more if he can show that some other
agent has received greater compensation.
The objections to the statute,no extraordinary conditions having been disclosed, by the defendant, should be
obvious. It goes far, beyond the mere, regulation of -the
business of insurance and interferes-directly with the
right of insurers to control the conduct of their internal
affairs; it restricts the right of both 'company and agent
to make reasonable private agreements in respect of com-

O'GORMAN & YOUNG.v. HARTF'D INS. CO. 269
251

VAN D.VANER, McRlYNOLDS, SUT I:uAin
dissenting.

and BuTImm, JJ.,

pensation for ordinary services; and the restrictions have
no immediate or necessary'relation to the maintenance of
insurance rates fair to the public.
The difference between regulation and management is
pointed out in the cases cited above. Congress has power,
for example, to regulate interstate commerce; but generally, at least, it may not say what shall be paid to -employees or interfere with the freedom of the parties to
contrabt in'respect of wages. This was distinctly pointed
out in. Wilson-v. New, 243 U. S. 332, 347--:'YIt is also
equally true that as the right to fix by agreement between
the carrier and its employees a standard of wages to' control their relations is primarily piivate, the establishment
and giving effect to such agreed on standarc-is not subject
to be controlled or prevented by public authority."
In order to justify the denial of the right to make private contracts, some special circumstances, sufficient to
indicate the necessity therefor must be shown by the party
relying upon, the denial. Here the right freely to agree
upon reasonable compensation has been abridged; and
no special circumstances demanding such action have'
been disclosed. Under the construction placed upon. the
statute, no agent can make an enforcible agreement with
an insurance company definitely fixing his compensation.
Always the company can defeat his claim for the agreed
amount, reasonable in fact, by paying less to. another
agent.
The inability of the company to make enforcible agreements with necessary agents has no appreciable relation to
fair rates. One agent's efforts often produce much more
valuable results than those of another. Such interference
with the freedom of the parties hinders the proper conduct of the business and may ultimately cause increased
rates. The statute prescribes no definite rate of compensation; under it no two companies are required to pay

.270

OCTOBER TERM. 1930.
Syllabus.

-

28213. S.

at the same rate for like servicei in the same locality; and
competition for business is necessarily abridged. And in
-order to operate at all -at some points, the insurer may
find it necessary to pay agents much more than prudent
management would require, and beyond the real value of
their .services at such places.
Although agents are -usuallypaid a specified percentage
t imited to that
-of premiums collected, the statute is noi
situation. -Certainly we <cannot' say that exercise by the
companies of the ordinary right'freely to contract touching compensation for services will tend materially to interfere 'withl-reasonable rates for ibgiance. Rates constitute the matter of public concern, not the compensation
of employees or representatives, which is, after all, only
an item of expense. And, so far as we can see, this legislation will afford no 1rotection ,to those who -wish to
insure.

The statute' before us'goes far beyond the usual provisions of slite laws concerning theinsurance business.
We,are advised that a similar one was enacted by the
State of Mississippi in 1924 and by the State of Louisiana
in 1926. Diligeqt counsel have disclosed no others. The
restrictions' are novel and lack the, sanction of general
assent and practical'eip iernce.
In our view the statute is arbitrary, unreasonable and
beyond the power of the legislature.
STANGE v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO TZIE CObJT OF CLAIMS.

N o. 23.

-

Argued December 2, 3. 1930.-Decided January 5, 1931.

Section 250 (d) of the Revenue Act of 1921, referring to income and
excess p~ofits taxes under earlier Acts, provides that the amount
due under any return made under such Acts shall be determined
and assessed within five years after the return was fled, unless the

