VARIOUS ITEMS v. UNITED STATES.

577

Syllabus.

568

whetlier requiring under penalty a return as a retail liquor
deAler, amounting, as it plainly does, to an admission of
cripinal liability, violates the rule against compulsory
self-incrimination. In this situation we do not now
feel called upon to consider or decide the point. If the
government, in view of the foregoing and of our decision
upon the questions in respect of which the.writ of certiorari was granted, shall still desire to press its contention,
it will be given an opportunity to do so by first presenting
it to the trial court.
The judgment of the court of appeals will be affirmed
and the cause remanded to the district court for further
proceedings in conformity with this opinion, without
prejudice to the further consideration and determination
by the district court of the question of liability. in respect
of the item of $4.68.
Affirmed.

VARIOUS ITEMS OF PERSONAL PROPERTY ET AL.
v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 114. Argued January 27, 1931.--Decided February 24, 1931.
1. There is no constitutional objection to the forfeiture of property
used in defrauding the United States of the exaction provided by
§ 600 (a) of the Revenue Ili of 1918, as amended (which imposes
a "tax, ) greater than and including the basic tax, on all distilled
spirits diverted to beverage purposes), whether such exaction be a
true tax or a penalty, or partly-vne and partly the other. P. 579.
2: Where a diversion was accomplished by the withdrawal of pure
alcohol, which was then specially denatured and in that condition
sold, to the contemplated end that, after it had passed into the
hands of purchasers, it -would be "cleaned" and finally used for
beverage purposes, it was a diversion of distled spirits to beverage
purposes under § 600 (a). P. 580.
22110 °-31-37

578

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

3. Proceedin6 under, R. S. §§ 3257 and 3281, to forfeit a dis0ery,
used in defrauding the United Statei of the tax on spirits imposed
by § 600 (a), Revenue Act of 1918, are not barred, under § 5 of
the Willis-Campbell Act or the Fifth Amendment, by the prior
conviction of the owner of a conspiracy to violate the National
Prohibition Act, involving the transactions set forth in the libel.
P. 580.

4.'The Court is not required to go outside the record to consider a
question-not considered by the court beldw nor referred to in the
apjlication'for certiorari, and in respect of which no instructions to
the jury were asked or given. P. 582.
40 F. (2d) 422, affirmed.

CEitTioRARI, post, p. 818, to review a judgment affirming
-v.judgment of the District Court declaring a forfeiture of
p..remises to the Government in a proceeding under R.. S.
§§ 3257 and 3281.
Mr. Lewis Landes for petitioners.
Assistant Attorney General Youngquist, with whom
Solicitor General Thacher and Messrs. John J. Byrne .and
Paul D. Mlr
were on the brief, for the United States.

MIR. JuSTiC SurHzRLAND delivered the opinion of the
Court.
• This was a proceeding, under R. S.§§ 3257 and 3281,
by'1he United States to forfeit a distillery, warehouse and
denaturing plant of the Waterloo Distilling Corporation
on the ground that the corporation had conducted its distilling business upon the premises with intent to defraud,
and had defrauded, the government of the tax on the
spirits distilled, in consequence of which the premises
had become forfeited to the government. The fraud
alleged was the withdrawal of alcohol ostensibly for nonbeverage but in 'reality for beverage purposes, without
payment of the tax on spirits diverted to beverage purposes imposed by § 600 (a) of the Revenue Act of 1918 as
amended, The corporation denied any violation of law.

577

VARIOUS ITEMS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

579

Evidence was introduced by the government tending to
support the libel. The government admitted that, prior
to the filing of the libel, the corporation and others had
been indicted and convicted for conspiring to violate provisions of the statute, involving the transactions set forth
in the libel as a basis for the forfeiture. A motion to dismiss the libel on the ground that the forfeiture proceedings were therefore barred was denied by the district
court. There was a verdict for the government and judgment declaring a forfeiture of the premises to the government. This judgment was affirmed by the court below.
40 F. (2d) 422.
The only .questions arising upon the record which we
deem it necessary to consider are two in number: (1)
whether under § 600 (a) of the Revenue Act of 1918, as
amended, there was a diversion of distilled spirits to
beverage purposes; (2) whether a conviction df a conspiracy to violate § 600 (a) barred the proceedings to forfeit the premises.
First. By § 600 (a), as amended, U. S. C., Supp. III,
Title 26, § 245 (4), it is provided:
"On and after February 26, 1926, on all distilled spirits
which are diverted to beverage purposes or for use in
the manufacture or production of any article used or
intended for use as a beverage there shall be levied and
collected a tax of $6.40 on each proof gallon or wine gallon when below proof, and a proportionate tax at a like
rate on all fractional parts of such proof or wine gallon,
to be paid by the person responsible for such diversion.
If a tax at the rate of $2.20, $1.65, or $1.10 per proof
or wine gallon has been paid upon such distilled spirits
a credit of the tax so paid shall be allowed in computing
the tax imposed by this paragraph."
Included in the $6.40 is the basic tax of $2.20, which is
not a penalty but a true tax. Only the remaining part
of the $6.40 may be regarded as a penalty; but, whether

580

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

the exaction be a tax or a penalty or partly one and partly
the other, there-is no constitutional objection to enforcing
it by forfeiture of the offending property. See United
States v. One Ford0o"pe, 272 U..§. 321, 328-329.
The alleged diversion was accomplished by the withdrawal of pure alcohol, -which was then specially denatured and made -unfit-to drink, and in that condition was
sold. Petitioners contend that this was a diversion not
of distilled spirits, but of denatured alcohol, and, there
fore, not within the reach of § 600 (a). But upon the
evidence and the instructions of the court it was open to
the jury to. find that the alcohol was specially denatured
-to the contemplated end that, after it had passed into the
rhaids of pur hasers, it would be "cleaned" and finally
used for beverage purposes. In that view it is entirely
accurate to say that the alcohol was diverted to beverage
purposes, the-special denaturing being only an'intervening
* step.
"Second. In United States v. La Franca,ante, p. 568,
we. hold 'that, under :§ 5 of the Wilis-Campbell Act, a
civil action to redover taxes, which in fact are penalties,
ii punitive in character and barred by'a prior conviction
of the defendant for a-criminal offense involving the same
transactions. This, however, is not that case, but a proPeeding in rem to forfeit property used in committing an
offense. At common law, in many cases, the tight of
forfeiture did' not attach until the offending person had
'been convicted and the record of conviction produced.
But that doctrine did not apply, as this court in an early
case pointed out, where the right of forfeiture was "created by statute, in rem, cognisable on the revenue side
of the exchequer. The thing is here primarily considered
-as the offender, or rather the offense *is attached pri*marily to the thing; and this, whether the offense be
mauin prohibitum, or malu.n in se." The Palnyra, 12

VARIOUS ITEMS v. UNITED STATES.
577

581

Opinion of the Court.

Wheat. 1, 14. In that case the forfeiture was of a vessel
in admiralty. But in Dobbins's Distillery v. United
States, 96 U. S. 395, the property seized was a distillery
in the hands of a lessee. The acts or omissions of the
lessee with inteiit to defraud the revenue were unknown
to the owner. Nevertheless, it was held that the distillery
was subject to forfeiture. The court after referring to
The Palmyra, supra, and to the statute which provided
for the forfeiture of the property in consequence of the
unlawful acts of the distiller with intent to defraud, said
(p. 401):
"Nothing can be plainer in legal decision than the
proposition ,that the offence therein defined is attached
primarily to the distillery, and the real and personal property used in connection with the same, without any regard
whatsoever to the personal misconduct or responsibility
of the owner, beyond what necessarily arises fron the fact
that he leased the property to the distiller, and suffered
it to be occupied and used by the lessee as a'distillery."
To the same effect, see Goldsmith-GrantCo. v. United
States, 254 U. S. 505, 510-512; United States v. Five Boxes
of Asafoetida, 181 Fed. 561, 564. And compare Murphy
v. United States, 272 U. S. 630, 632.
A forfeiture proceeding under R. S. 3257 or 3281 is
rn rem. It is the property which is proceeded against,
and, by resort to a legal fiction, held guilty and condemned as though it were conscious instead of inanimate
and insentient. In a criminal prosecution it is the wrongdoer in person who is proceeded against, convicted and
punished. The forfeiture is no part of the punishment
for the criminal offense. Origet v. United States, 125
U. S. 240, 245-247. The provision of the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution in respect of double jeopardy
does not apply. United States v. Three Copper Stills;
47 Fed. 495, 499; United States v. Olsen, 57 Fed. 579, 582
et seq.; Sanders v. Iowa, 2 Iowa (Clarke ed.) 230, 278.

• 582

OCTOBER, TERM, 1930.
Syllabus.

282 U. S.

It- is said that included in the decree of forfeiture is an
isimd not "bonded" or used as a means of ingress or
egress to, but entirely separate from, the distilling premises. Our attention, however, is called to nothing in *the
record which appears to verify these statements. ' No instructions to the jury were asked or given on the subject,
nor was it considered by the court below or referred to in
the application for certiorari. In these circumstances it
is unreasonable to expect us to consider the question.
,We iave not overlooked other contentions made by petitioner, but, in so far as they are not met by what already
has beensaid, we find it unnecessary to consider them for
lack of substance.
Judgment affirmed.
COOLIDGE wr AL., TRUSTEES, v. LONG,:COMMISSTONER OF CORPORATIONS AND TAXATIO$
OF MASSACHUSETTS.
APRPEAL FROM THE PROBATE COURT OF NORFOLK COUNTY,
-MASSACHUSETTS.

NoiS.33 and 34. Argued December 8, 1930.-Decided February 24,
1931.
By voluntary deeds of trust, a husband and wife transferred real and
personal property, owned by them severally in certain proportion§,
to trustees, in trust to pay the income in those proportions to the
settlors during their joint lives and then the entire income to the
survivor of them, and, upon the death of the survivor to divide the
principal equally,among the settlors' five sons, provided that, if any
of the sons should predecease the survivor of the settlors, the share
of that son should go to those entitled to take his intestate property
under the statute of distribution in force at the death of such survivor. The deeds reserved no power of revocation, modification or
termination prior to the death of the survivor of the settlors. After
both settlors had died, the State imposed succession taxes upon the
remainder interests of the sons, under a statute passed before the
deaths of the settlors but after the creation of the trusts (Gen. Iaws

