458

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Counsel for Parties.

282U.S.

the appellate court. The route to that end was obvious,
easy, inexpensive. He deliberately failed to defend his
assertion of'right by appealing. He has been guilty of
unreasonable'delay and has not brought himself within
the beneficent provisions of te statute.
The judgment below must be

Affirmed.
LOUISIANA v. MISSISSIPPI.
No. 8, original. Argument commenced and suspended, and cause
referred to a Special Master,, October 8, 1928. Submitted on defendant's exceptions to the' report of the Special Master, January
5, 1931.-Decided February 2, 1931.
1. In a suit'to establish a part of the boundary line, of Louisiana
and Missimssipp between Willow 'Point and adjacent territory in
the former and T6wnship 9 North, Range 8 West,-in the latter
State, where the Mississippi River forms what is known as Albemarle Bend, the Court, after an examination of the document6ry
and oral evidence, sustains the master in finding:
(1) That changes in the, course of the river which occurred
at the'place in question between the years 1823 and 1912-13,
by which a considerable area was added to the Louisiana shore,
were by gradual erosions and accretions, and not by avulsibns.
P. 462.
(2) That a change in 1912-13 by which the river, shifting to
the west, cut off a large part of this area, was due to an avusion .
P. 465.
(3) 'That Mississippi did not by possession or exercise of
sovereignty or dominion acquire right or title to the disputed
territory. P. 466.
2. 'pon these facts, the boundary is the thread of the main channel
of the river as it was immediately prior to the avulsion of 1912-13.
P. 467.

FwAL' E ARN o Of an original suit to establish part of
an hiterstate bound a7,y
Messrs. GerardBrandon,Percy Saint, Attorney General
of Louisiana, John Dale, Robert Ash, Philip Hough, John

LOUISIANA v. MISSISSIPPI.
458

Opinion of the Court.

Dale, Jr., and L. D. Dale were on the brief for the State
of Louisiana.
Messrs. George T. Mitchell, Attorney General of Mississippi) H. H. Creekmore, Pat Henry, Rufus Creekmore,
E. C.Sharp, and Rush H. Knox were on the-brief for the
State of Mississippi.
MR. JusTIcE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The bill seeks a decree locating and establishing a portion of the boundary line of Louisiana ahd Mississippi,
between Willow Point and adjacent premises in the former, and lands in Township 9 North, Range 8 West, in
the latter state, where the Mississippi River forms what
is known as Albemarle Bend.
In 1823 the thread of the navigable channel of the river
was the true boundary line, and is correctly located by
surveys made by the Mississippi River Commission in
1823 and 1824. At that time the territory now in dispute
was within Mississippi and consisted of an island (then
known as Tullos Island, which lay to the east of the thread
of the river and was separated from the Mississippi mainland by a chute) and certain portions of the mainland
east thereof. Prior to 1882 the island was renamed
"Island No. 98."
The complainant asserts:
That between 1823 and 1913 erosions occurred which
ate away all of Tullos Island and large portions of the
Mississippi shore;
That accretions attached to the.Louisiana shore;
That the river, -and consequently the interstate boundary line, gradually and imperceptibly moved eastwardly
and northwardly a distance of five or six miles;
That the accretions to the Louisiana shore became the
territory of complainant;

460

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U.S,

That in 1912-1913 the river suddenly changed its
course, cut across the bar formed by the said accretions
on the Louisiana side, and by avulsion formed a new
channel to the west, severing from the Loiisiana shore a
large portion of the accretion theretofore formed;
That as the last change was by avulsion the boundary
line remained and now is at the thread of the extreme
easterly and northeasterly channel of the river as it was
in 1912-1913.
The Mississippi River Commission surveyed the river
in 1882, and admittedly its chart mace from that survey
correctly shows the shore lines and bar lines and other
relevant data as of that year. A further survey was made
by the Commission, and a plotting taken therefrom in
1894, and a similar survey and plotting shows the river
as it was in 1912-13. These demonstrate that the river
had moved to the eastward from its position in 1823, each
survey placing it considerably east of its location at the
time of the next earlier one.
The respondent avers:
That the complainant has failed to show how the change
in the channel came about between the surveys of 18231824 and that of 1882;
That as complainant has the burden of showing that the
change took place by accretion rather than by avulsion,
and has failed to carry that burden, it can make no claim
for the land added to the Louisiana shore prior to 1882';
That subsequent to 1882 the river above the point in
controversy cut into the Louisiana bank above and along
the northern border of Willow Point, was deflected in a
northeasterly direction, so that instead of striking Tullos
Island it curved around the head of what then remained
of the island (as it is shown on the survey of 1882) and
enlarged the chute between that island and the Mississippi
shore. forming a new chaxinel there;

LOUISIANA v. MISSISSIPPI.
458

Opinion of the Court.

That subsequently the old channel, which had run to
the west of the island, filled up, and thereby the island
became attached to the Louisiana shore;
That the new channel running to the north and east of
what was'left of Tullos Island added by accretion to the
easterly side of the island and cut farther into the Mississippi shore until 1912-13, when the river suddenly
abandoned the new channel and returned to the old
1882 channel;
That thereby what theretofore had been Tullos Island
again became an island separated from the Louisiana
shore, although greatly enlarged over its dimensions in
1882 by the accretions added to its easterly side.
As an additional and alternative, defense Mississippi
asserts that its title to the disputed territory cannot now,
be assailed because of long continued possession and exercise of sovereignty and dominion, with the acquiescence of
Louisiana.
On the issues thus made testimony was taken before
a commissioner, and was referred to Thomas G. Haight,
a member of the bar of this court, as special master, With
direction and authority to report his findings of fact, conclusions of law, and recommendations for a decree. He
has filed his report, recommending a decree in accordance
with the contentions of the complainant. The respondent has filed exceptions.
The parties are in agreement as to the applicable legal
principles. The exceptions raise no questions of law,
but go solely lo the correctness of the master's fact findings and conclusions. We have, therefore, examined the
proofs, consisting of documentary evidence and oral testimony, to determine whether the *master's findingg are
in accord therewith. In brief he finds:
1. That the changes between 1823 and 1912-13 were
by gradual erosion of the Mississippi shore and gradual
accretions to the Louisiana shore, and not by avulsions.

462

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S:

2. That the change in 1912-13 was due to an avulsion.
3. That the accretions up to the avulsion of 1912-13
and thereafter, so long as the current flowed in the
easterly channel as it was prior to the avlsion, became
Louisiana, territory.
4. That the avulsion of 1912-13 did not change the
boundary line.
5. That Mississippi did not by possession or exercise
of sovereignty or dominion acquire right or title to the
disputed territory; and as a consequence of the foregoing,
6. That the present true boundary line is the middle
of zthe havigable channel prior to the avulsion of 191213, as that channel was when the current ceased to flow
therein by- reason of the formation of the new channel
by the avulsion of 1912-13, and the filling of the former
channel.
There is no challenge of findings 2 and 4.
The whole
controversy 'revolves about the correctness -of findings
-1 and 3 as to the physical changes which actually took
place, and finding 5 as to the exercise of dominion by the
respondent.
I. With respect to the physical changes which have
taken place in the location of the Mississippi River, the
proofs m-ay conveniently be divided into two parts,those which apply to the period prior to 1882, and those
which have to do with that between 1882 and 1912.
It was impossible to procure much or very persuasive
oral evidence as to. conditions prior to 1882. The master
had before him, however, the charts of the Mississippi
River Commission of 1823-24 and-of 1882, and plats from
surveys 'made in 1866 and 1870. By -comparing these
and noting facts deducible from them, he concluded, that
the river moved eastward from its -1823 channel -to its
1882 channel gradually and not by avulsion. He found
that the Louisiana shore was eroded above Albemarle

LOUISIANA v. MISSISSIPPI.
458

46a

Opinion of th Court."

Bend and extended to-the eastward by accretions at Willow Point: He further'found that while this' was occur-"
ring the eastward sweep of the river gradually cut ;awaFy
the greater portion of Tullos Island.. Ddring all of thistime theriver remained of approximately the same'widti,
thus negativing Mississippi's contention as to the possibility of the change in the channel being sudden 'and by
avulsions of nature: His conclusions w'ere'also -sup.ported -by the relative locations of sand bars and river
banks at the dates of the successive surveys. In 1882 a
towhead, so-called, had been formed on the sand bar created by the accretions to the Louisiana shore, which was.
named "Newman's Towhead" because the owner of the
Louisiana mainland at the point from which the bar had
made out was a man named Newman. On this towhead
there had sprung up a growth of willow and cottonwood
timber.
From an examination of the proofs and a checking
of
the processes of reasoning and leduction adopted by the
master we are satisfied that his findings on this branch
of the case are justified; and that the contention of
Mississippi that he has relied upon mere inferences, which
do not rise to the dignity of affirmative proofs, is not
well founded.
A more serious controversy, complicated by conflicting
oral testimony, is disclosed as to what occurred between
1882 and 1912. The complainant adduced proofs tending to show that the eastward and northeastward moVement of the channel continued after 1882. Theie further tend to~show that by 1894 all that was left of Tullos
Island in 1882 had been washed away, and that the main•
channel of the river was in part where that island had
formerly been and in part east of its location; that the
eastward movement of the river and the direction of the
current to the east eroded a substantial portion of the

464

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

former Mississippi mainland; that from 1894 to 1912
this movement eastward continued until whole sections
of Township 9 North, Range 8 West, in Mississippi, had
caved away; that in periods of high water in 1912 and
1913 the river overflowed the bar extending out fron the
Louisiana shore to Newman's Towhead and took a southwesterly course, cutting across the accretions theretofore
formed and leaving the eastern portions of the bar, including the towhead, an island; that a portion of this new
island occupied the location 'of what was, formerly Tullos
Island. Thus complainant claimed, that, prior to 1912,
the old island had been washed away by the eastward
progress of the river channel, and had been replaced by
accretions along the westerly side of the river adjacent
to Louisiana.
Respondent offered evidence tending to show that while
the river reached the extreme easterly position averred by
the complainant, it did so niot by washing away Tullos
Island and moving eastwardly over the former location of
that island, but by swinging around to the north and east
of that island, enlarging and scouring out the former chute
or narrow channel between the island and the Mississippi
mainland; that thereafter the river added 'by accretions
to the eastern side of what was left of the island, and that
the old channel to the west of it gradually filled up.
If the weight of the evidence is with the complainant,
the territory in controversy belongs to Louisiana; if the
contrary be found, the disputed territory, originally within
the boundaries of Mississippi, so remains.
There is much conflicting testimony as to the location
of the main channel between 1890 aid 1912; as to whether
Tullos Island was scoured away; as to the character of
the soil and timber on the island; as to whether the
alleged clay soil of the island disappeared and was afterwards replaced by a sand bar formed by accretion; as to.

LOUISIANA v. MISSISSIPPI.
458

465

Opinion of the Court.

whether the original virgin timber which was on it fell
into the -river and disappeared with it, or in part still
stands as mute evidence that the island was never entirely
washed way.
Mindful of the fact that the special master did not see
and hear the witnesses, we have felt it incumbent upon
us to study the proofs, documentary and oral, to examine
the deductions made therefrom, and thereby totest the
stated conclusions. The preponderance of the evidence
supports the master's finding that from 1882 to 1894 the
river moved eastwardly, caving away Tullos Island along
its western shore, until it had wiped out that island; that
the continued eastward movement caved the Mississippi
shore, at the same tinme adding to the accretions which
had already formed on the Louisiana shore opposite Willow Point; and that the bar was continuous from the
old high bank on the Louisiana side to the end of Newnian's Towhead. Thus by 1912 an area five or six miles
in length and se.ver4I miles in width had been added to
the Louisiana shore.
As matters stood in 1912 and 1913, the boundary line
between the states was the thread of the navigable channel far to the eastward of the present channel. As above
stated, there is no controversy as to what occurred in
1912-13. The river by a sudden avulsion made a shortcut to the west of Albemarle Bend, as it then was; and
subsequently the channel in the old bend to the eastward
of the new channel silted and filled until it entirely closed
at the upper end. This sudden avulsion did not change
the boundary line between the states.
H. It remains to discuss the proofs bearing upon the
master's fifth finding. The survey of 1882 discloses that
accretions attached to the Louisiana shore had at that
time extended to the eastward so far as to cover a portion
of the territory formerly belonging to Mississippi. The
-

22110*--31-30

466

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

1894 survey shows taese,-accretions covering a much
larger portion, and that of 1912-13 shows a still greaterextension over former Mississippi territory. The New.mans, who lived on Willow Point, Louisiana, had a house
'about one, hundred yards east of the 1824 mainland, between the levee and the stream, and just above Albemarle Bend proper. It must, therefore, have been built
on accretions formed subsequent to 1824. Itcaved into
the river in 1905. The master found that the possession
of the Newmans extended at least to those accretions
which had attached to the shore up to the time that their
house was destroyed. The disputed territory is low
alluvial land subject to overflow at times of high water
and is not protected by levees or dikes. Upon portions
of it cottonwood and willow 'timber has "grown. The
land.is not fitted for cultivation-or settlement except in
a haphazard way. It took its name from the Newman
family and was known as the "Newman Towhead."
After the avulsion of 1912-13 severed a large,portion of it
from the Louisiana shore the successors in title of the
Newmans leased th6 cut-off portibn of it, lying to the:
eastward of the new channel, to one Towns.' *The lease
described it as part of the Bell and Willow Point plantations, located in East Carroll Parish, Louisiana. Tt was
occupied under the lease for six or eight years for the
pasturing of hogs.
The first knowledge that complainant's witnesses had
of any claim on behalf of Mississippi or its citizens was
shortly before this action vas brought. It appears that
in or about 1923 Mississippi sold some .of the land in
question for delinquent iaxes. On the'assessment rolls of
Issaquena County, Mississippi, the purchasers at these tax
sales first appeared as owners in 1925-1926. The respond-

LOUISIANA v. MISSISSIPPI.
458

467

Opinion of the Court.

ent put in evidence assessment rolls for certain years between 1848 and 1926. They show that after 1883 certain
of the lands within the original boundary of Tullos Island
are marked "'in river," or "in Mississippi River," and
from time to time these lands so designated were assessed
for taxation, sometimes for nominal amounts and sometimes for substantial sums. At times "Island No. 98"
appears as a separate item on the rolls, although the surveys show that at those times the island had disappeared.
It is described as of greatly varying sizes in different years.
The evidence to be drawn from this source is quite contradctory and fails to show any dominion by Mississippi
over the disputed territory.
The record sustains the master's finding* that there is
no proof that Louisiana or its citizens knew of or acquiesced in any purported dominion of Mississippi over the
disputed territory. The respondent has failed to meet
the test laid down in Michigan v. Wisconsin, 270 U. S.
295, with respect to exercise of sovereignty and dominion
over the disputed territory, and acquiescence by complainant in such alleged possession. The master's fifth
finding is sustained.
A decree should be entered as recommended by the
master, appointing a commission to locate the thread of
the main channel of the Mississippi River as the same was
immediately prior to the avulsion of 1912-13;" and the
line when so located is decreed to be the boundary between the states, between latitude 320 39' on the north
and the division line between Issaquena and Warren
Counties, Mississippi (as extended westward), on the
south. The parties are accorded forty days within which
to submit a decree in accordance with this opinion..
I
It is so ordered.

