LANGNES v. GREEN.
Syllabus.

LANGNES, OWNER OF THE DIESEL HALIBUT
VESSEL "ALOHA," v. GREEN, CLAIMANT.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR TE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 38. Argued January 7, 8, 1931.-Decided February24, 1931.
-1. In a proceeding by a ship-owner to limit liability under R. S.
§§ 4283-4285, as against a claim of damages for personal injury, the
question whether the injury was occasioned with his privity' and
knowledge is not jurisdictional but appertains to the merits of his
petition. P. 534.
2. Upon review of a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals in an
admiralty case, a respondent in certiorari, though he did not crosspetition for the "writ,may seek to sustain the decree upon a, ground
which the court below rejected as well as upon that which it
accepted. P.535.
3. Where a ship-owner, in a petition in the District Court to limit
liability under R. S. §§ 4283-4285, though alleging fear of other
'claims, set up none except an action for personal injuries.which was
then pending, on the eve of trial, in a state court, and where the
nature of the accident and other circumstances of the case were
,such as to give rise to the presumption that no other claims existed
and reflect doubt upon the allegation that others were feared, geld:
(1) That the state court had jurisdiction of the action, under.
Jud. Code, § 24 (3), and, in the exercise of its common law powers
therein, was competent to entertain a claim of the shipowner for
limitation of liability and aff6rd him appropriate relief under the
federal statute dealing with that subject. P. 539.
(2) The District Court also had jurisdiction of ,the petition before it, but to be exercised in accordance with a sound discretion
with regard to what was right and equitable. P. 540.
. (3) Sound discretion required that the District Court permit the
action in the state court to proceed, so thaA the claimant's .right,
to a common law remedyi might not be destroyed, retaining, however, the petition for limited liability to be dealt with if the petitioner's right to such limitation were brought in question in the state.
court, or if the case otherwise assumed such form 'n that court as to
bring it within the exclusive power of a Court'of Admiralty.' P. 541..

532

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

(4) Iti restraining the state court action and in adjudicating for
itself the question' of liability, the District Court committed an
abuse of discretion reviewable by the Circuit Coulrt of Appeals and
by this Court. P. 541.
35 F. (2d) 447, reversed.

CERarIou~ , 281 U. S. 708, to review a decree which reversed a decree of the District Court, 32 F. (2d) 284; in a
proceeding in admiralty to limit liability. ,The District
Court adjudicated the claim against the petitioning shipowner upon the merits and in his favor. The court below directed that the petition be reversed for want, of

jurisdiction.
Mr. Robert E.Bronson,with whom Messrs. IraBronson
and H. B.Jones were on the brief, for petitioner.
'Mr. Winter S. Martin, with whom Mr. Samuel B.
Bassett was on the brief, for respondent'
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Petitioner, as sole owner of the fishing vessel "Aloha,",
on February 24, 1928, brought a proceeding in the federal district court for the western district of Washington,
praying a limitation of liability under R. S., §§ 4283,
4284, 4285 (U. S. C., Title 46, §§ 183, 184, 185), which
are copied in the margin.* It was stipulated by the
*Sec. 4283. The liability of the owner of any vessel, for any
embezzlement, loss, or destruction, by any person, of any property,
goods, or merchandise, shipped or put on board of such vessel or
for any loss, damage, or injury by collision, or for any act, matter,
or thing, loss, damage, or forfeiture, done, occasioned, or incurred,
without the privity, or knowledge of such owner or owners, shall in no
case exceed the amount or value of the interest of such owner in such
vessel, and her freight then pending.
Sec. 4284. Whenever any such embezzlement, loss, or destruction
is suffered by several freighters or owners of goods, wares, merchandise, or any property whatever, on the same voyage, and the whole
value of the vessel and her freight for the voyage, is not sufficient

LANGNES v. GREEN.
,531

533

Opinion of the Court.

parties that the vessel was of no greater value than the
sum of $5,000. After setting forth -that petitioner was
the sole owner of the vessel and that the vessel was seaworthy in all respects, the petition alleged, among other
things, that the respondent on October 11,' 1927, had commenced an action in a superior court of the State of Washington against'petitioner to recover damages in the sum
of $25,000 for personal injuries suffered, while employed
upon said vessel. The petition for a limitation of liability was filed four months later while that action was
pending, and, it is said and not denied, within two days
before the date set for the'-trial in the state court. Following the filing of the petition .the federal district court
issued an order restraining further proceedings in the
state court, and a monition to all claimants to present
their claims within a time fixed. The respondent, in
response to the monition, filed his claim in the amount.
of $25,000 for damages resulting from the personal injuries
referred to above. No other claim was filed.
Thereupon, respondent moved to dissolve the restraining order upon the ground that the state court had jurisdiction of the cause; that there was only one possible
to make compensation to each of them, they shall receive compensation from the owner of the vessel, in proportion to their respective
losses; and for that purpose the freighters and owners of the property,
and the owner of the vessel, or any of them, may take th6 appropriate proceedings in any court, for the purpose of apportioning the
sua for which the owner of the vessel may be liable among the parties
entitled thereto.
Sec. 4285. It shall be deemed a sufficient compliance on the part
of such owner with the requirements of this Title relating to his liability for any embezzlement, loss, or destruction of any property,
goods, or merchandise, if he shall transfer his interest in such vessel
and freight, for the benefit of such claimants, to a trustee, to be appointed by any court of competent jurisdiction, to act as such trustee
for the person who may prove to be legally entitled thereto; from
and after which transfer all claims and proceedings against the owner
shall cease.

OfCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

claimant and one owner; andthat petitioner, therefore,
might claim and obtain the advantage and benefit of the
limitation of liability statute by proper pleading in the
action pending in the state court. This niotion the district court denied, and the cause in respect of respondent's
claim was tried. Upon the hearing the district court, determined that it should first i'nquire whether there -was
any liability, and.if there was, then, whether it should be
limited; and, at the conclusion'of respondent's evidence
without taking evidence on the part of petitioner, the
court held that there was no liabilir and entered a decree
accordingly. 32 F. (2d) 284. -Reslondent appealed to
the circuit court of appeals; and that court reversed the
decree and remanded the case to the district court with
directions to dismiss it for wbnt of jurisdiction. 35 F.
(2d). 44t.
in -he court of appeal the Adcree was assailed upon
the grounds'(1) that, there being -butone possible claim
and one owner, the' ship owner, should have sought ,his
remedy for a limitatibn of liability by proper pleading. in
the state coi r; aid -(2) that the record disclosed the
privity and knowledge of? the owner in respect of the
matters aftd things by which the injury to respondent resulted; *,The court rejected the first contentioh upon the
authority of White v.Island Transportation Co., 233 U.
S. 346; but sustained the second, holding that the pleadings and' evidence-disclosed that the injury complained of
was occasi6ned with the privity and knowledge of the
ship owner, and consequently the district court was without jurisdiction.
We are of opinion that the second contention, upon
which the decree below was predicated, did not'present a
jurisdictional question. The district court had jirisdiction to pass' upon the sufficiency of the pleadings and to
dedide the qu'estion upon the evidence; and a determination thereof either way, whether right or wrong, .would

LANGNES v. GREEN.
531

Opinion .of the Court.

have been a determination by that court upon the meritsin the proper exercise of its jurisdiction. Binderup v.
Pathe Exchange, 263 U. S. 291, and cases cited; Moore v.
N. Y. Cotton Exchange, 270 U. S. 593, 608. In the Binder-up case the rule was stated as follows (p. 305):.
"Jurisdiction is the power to decide a justiciable controversy, and includes questions of law as well as of fact.
A complaint setting forth a substantial claim under a
federal statute presents a case within the jurisdiction of
the court as a federal court; and this jurisdiction cannot
be made to stand or fall upon the way the court may
-chance to decide an issue as to the legal sufficiency of the
facts alleged any more than upon the way it may decide
as to the legal sufficiency of the facts proven. Its decision
either way upon either question is predicated upon the
existence of jurisdiction, not upon the absence of it.
Jurisdiction, as distinguished from merits, is wanting only
ivhere the claim set forth in the complaint is so unsubstantial as to be frivolous or, in other words, is plainly without
color of merit. [Citing cases.] In that event the claim
of federal right under the statute is a mere pretence and,
in effect, is no claim at all"
But we deem.it unnecessary to consider the second contention further, since the conclusion to which we have
come rests upon the first contention, in respect of which,
for reasons presently to be stated, we are of opinion both
courts below were in error.
The preliminary objection is urged by petitioner, that,
since the decision below upon this point was against respondent and he has not applied for certiorari, the point
is not open here for consideration; 1 ut the objection is
without merit, as a brief review of the decisions of this
court will disclose.
-In Irvine v. The Hesper, 122 U. S. 256, 266, the rule
was announced without qualification that an appeal in
admiralty from the district court to the circuit court

536

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

vacated the decree of the former and opened the case
for a trial de nova in the latter court. At page 267 the
court said:
"We do not think that the fact that the claimants did
not appeal from the decree of the District Court alters
the rule. When the libellants appealed, they did so in
view of the rule, and took the risk of the result of a trial
of the case de novo. The whole case was opened by their
appeal, as much as it would have been if both parties
had appealed, or if the appeal had been taken only by
the claimants."
In Reid v. Fargo, 241 U. S. 544, 548, in an opinion by
Mr. Chief Justice White, this conclusion was reaffirmed;
and attention was called to the fact that a full and convincing review of the authorities on the subject was contained in the opinion of the court of Appeals for the second
circuit in Munson S. S. Line v. Miramar S. S. Co., 167
Fed. 960. In the more recent case of Standard Oil Co.
v. Southern Pacific (do., 268 U. S. 146, 155, the rule was
again stated in these words:
. "On appeal in admiralty, there is a trial de novo. The,
whole case was opened in the Circuit Court of Appeals
by the appeal of the Southern Pacific Company as much
as it would have been if the Director General had also
appealed."
The question then arises: What is the scope of inquiry
in this court when the case is brought up by certiorari
from the circuit court of appeals? It has been decided
that upon writ of error from an intermediate appellate
tribunal we are not limited to a consideration of the
points raised by the plaintiff, but "must enter the judgment, which should have' been rendered by the court
below on the record then before it." Baker v. Warner,
231 U. S. 588, 593. And' in Delk v. St. Louis & San
Francisco R. Co., 220 U. S. 580, 588, following Lutcher
& Moore Lumber Co.v. Knight, 217 U. S. 257, 267, it

LANGNES v. GREEN.
531

537

Opinion of the Court.

was held that on certiorari, likewise, the entire record is
before this court with power to review the action of the
court of appeals and direct such disposition of the case
as that court might have done upon the writ of error
sued out for the review of the circuit (now district) court.
In Watts, Watts & Co. v. Unione Austriaca, 248 U. S. 9,
21, it was said that, "This court, in the exercise of its
appellate jurisdiction, has power not only to correct error
in the judgment entered below, but to make such disposition of the case as justice -may at this time require ";
and "the rule is the more insistent, because, in admiralty,
cases are tried de novo on appeal." See also Dorchy v.
Kansas, 264 U. S.286, 289.
The authorities relied upon by petitioner are not to the
contrary. They contain no challenge to the rule laid
down in the decisions cited immediately above, but proceed upon the theory that the court is not bound to consider objections to the decree urged by respondent, in the
absence of cross petition for certiorari. In Warner Co. v.
Independent Pier Co., 278 U. S.85, 91, where the authorities are collected, it is said:
"Objections to the decree below were offered by counsel
for respondents in their briefs and arguments here. But
no application for certiorari was made in their behalf and
we confine our consideration to errors assigned by the
petitioner."
- n Hubbard v. Tod, 171 U. S.474, 494, the court disposed of the matter by saying:
"And as respondents did not apply, for certiorari,, we
shall confine our consideration of the case to the examination of errors assigned by petitioner."
In Federal Trade Comm. v. Pacific Paper Assn., 273
U. S. 52, respondents, without presenting a cross petition
for certiorari, sought a reversal of a distinct portion of the
decree. This court, in declining to consider the matter,
said (p. 66):

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

"A party who has not sought review by appeal or writ
of error will not be heard in an appellate court to question the correctness of the decree of the lower court.
This is so well settled that citation is not necessary. The
respondents are not entitled as of right to have that part
of the decree reviewed. [Citing cases.] And, assuming
power, we are not moved by any persuasive consideration
to examine the parts of the commission's order to which
respondents object."
These decisions'simply announce a ruld of practice which
generally has been followed; .but none of them deny the
power of the court to review objections urged by respondent, although he has not applied for certiorari, if the court
deems there is good reason to do so. In the present case,
however, it is not. necessary to consider this rule of practice because the respondent offers no objection to the decree of the court of appeals. In that court he attacked
the decree of the district court upon the two grotinds
above stated, and the circuit court of appeals sustained
the attack but upon one of such grounds only. Respondent here defends that decree upon the ground upon which
it was based, and, in addition, 'continues-to urge the rejected ground, not to overthrow the decree, but to sustain
it. Htis right to do so is'beyond successful challenge, quite
apart from the fact that this is a proceeding in admiralty,
and is here from an'intermediate appellate court. United.
States v. American By. Exp. Co., 265 U. ,S. 425, where at
page 435 it-is said:
* "It is true that a party who does not appeal from a
final decree of the trial court cannot be heard in opposition thereto when the case is brought here by the appeal
of the adverse party. In other words, the appellee may
not attack the decree with a view either*to enlarging his
own rights thereunder or of lessening the rights of his
adversary, whether what he seeks is to correct an error
or to supplement the decree with respect to a matter not

-LANG1ES v. GREEN.
531

1539

Opinion of the Court.

dealt with below. But it is likewise settled that the appellee may, without taking a cross-appeal, urge in support of a decree any matter appearing in 'the record,
although' his argument may involve an attack upon the
reasoning of the lower court or an insistence upon matter
overlooked or ignored by it. By the claims now in question,, the American does not -attack, in any respect, the
decree entered below. It -merely asserts additional
*grounds why the decree should be affirmed."
. And, obviously, the right or duty of this court to consider these additional grounds will neither be affected by
their rejection in the court below, nor be made to depend
upon the effect finally given to them here.'
. We proceed, then, to inquire what disposition the court,
of appeals should have made of the case in respect of. the
point- under consideration upon the record which wis
before that court. Section 24 (3) 'f the Judicial Code,
U, S. C., Title 28, § 41 (3), confers upon the district
courts of the United States admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, "saving to suitors in all cases the right of a common-law remedy where the common law -is
competent to
give it." ' The provisions of the statute in respect of limitation of liability confer upon the"owner of a vessel in-a
variety of cases, including the present case, when loss is
occasioned without the privity or knowledge of the owner,
the right to limit his liability to the value of his interest
in the vessel and her freight then pending. That the action brought in the stite court was authorized by the first
of the statutes referred to is plain. That the petition of
the owner in the present case was properly brought, and
that the federal court. had jurisdiction to entertain it,
whether there -was a plurality of claims or only one, is
equally clear." White v. Island TransportationCo., supra,
p. 351. The situation, then, is that one statute gave respondent the right to a common law remedy, which he
properly sought in the state court; and another statute

540

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

gave pefitioner the right to seek a limitation of liability
in the federal district court. Needless to say that if. the
case for a limitation of liability assumes such a form that
only a federal court is competent to afford relief, the jurisdiction of that court is exclusive and must be exerted
to dispose of the entire cause; and the action in the state
court may not be further prosecuted.
Here the petition alleged that petitioner feared oler
claims, but no other claims were filed in response to the
monition; the time therefor had expired and default had
been noted; and nothing appears to suggest the possibility
of any other claim. On the contrary, not only does a presumption fairly arise from the nature of the accident and.
all the surrounding circumstances that no other claim
exists, but they are such as to reflect doubt upon the
good faith of the allegation that petitioner was in fear of
other claims; and the fact that petitioner delayed his
proceeding for. four months after the commencement of
the state action and until two days before the date set
for the trial is confirmatory. of that view. In this situation, while there is some conflict among the decisions of
the lower federal courts, this court has accepted the view
that, "In a state court, when there is only one possible
claimant and one owner, the advantage of this section
[§ 4283] maybe obtained by proper pleading. The Lotta,
150 Fed. 219, 222; Delaware River Ferry Co. v. Amos,.
179 Fed. 756." Carlisle Packing Co. v. Sandanger, 259
U. S. 255, 260. See also Steamboat Co. v. Chase, 16 Wall.
522, 532-533.
Upon the present record, the necessary result of this
holding is that the state court, in the action there pending
and in the due course of the exercise of its common law
powers, was competent to entertain a claim of the ship
owner for a limitation of liability and afford him appropriate relief under the statute dealing with that subject.
Compare Loughin v. McCaulley, 186 Pa. 517. Notwith-

LANGNES v. GREEN.
531

Opinion of the Court.

standing this, however, the ship owner was free to invoke
the jurisdiction of the federal district court (White v.
Island TransportationCo., suj.ra); and, that having been
done, the question which arose was not one of jurisdiction,
but, as will later more fully appear, was whether as a matter of discretion that jurisdiction should be exercised to
dispose of the cause.
The term "discretion" denotes the absence of a hard
and fast rule. The Styria v. Morgan, 186 U. S. 1, 9.
When invoked as a guide to judicial action it-means a
sound discretion, that is to say, a discretion exercised not
arbitrarily or wilfully, but wvith regard to what is right
and equitable -under the circumstances and the law, and
directed by the reason and conscience of the judge to a
just result.
In the case now under review the problem presented
to the district court by the motion of respondent was
quite simple. Upon the face of the record the state court,
whose jurisdiction already had attached, was competent
to afford relief to the petitioner. The difference in the
effect of adopting one or the other of the two alternatives
presented to the district court was obvious. To retain
the cause would be to preserve 'the right of the ship
owner, but to destroy the right of the suitor in the state
court to. a common law remedy; to remit the cause to
the state court would be to preserve the rights of both parties. The mere statement of these diverse results is sufficient to demonstrate the 'Justic of the latter course; and
we do not doubt that, in the exercise of a sound discretion,
the district court, following that course, should' have
granted respondent's motion to dissolve the restraining
order so as to permit the cause to proceed in the state
court, retaining, as a matter of precaution, the petition
for a limitation of liability to be dealt with in the possible
but (since it must be assumed that respondent's motion was not an idle gesture but was made with full

542

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U.S.

appreciation of the state court's entire lack of admiralty
jurisdiction) the unlikely event that the right of petitioner to a limited liability might be brought into question mi the state court, or the case otherwise assume such
form in that court as to bring it within the exclusive power
of a court of admiralty. The failure to ,do this, in our
opinion, constituted an abuse of discretion subject to the
correcting power of the appellate court below and of this
court.
In The Lotta, 150 Fed. 219, cited as authority for the
rule laid down in the Sandanger case, .Judge Brawley, a
capable admiralty judge, dealt with the same question in
the manner here suggested and delivered an opinion
which seems to us entirely sound. In that case an action
had been brought, in a state court against the owner of
the Lotta by an administrator to recover damages for the
death of his son. The right to maintain such an action
was conferred by state statute. Pending the prosecution of that action the owner of the Lotta filed a petition
in the federal district court for a limitation of liability,
and by an ex parte proceeding had the Lotta appraised,
paid the appraised value into the registry of the court,
and obtained an injunction restraining the prosecution
of the action in the state court. After referring to the
provision of law saving to suitors the right of a common
law remedy, Judge Brawley said that the plaintiff had
the right to pursue his remedy in the state court unless
the act providing for a limitation of liability clearly deprived him of it; that where there was only a single
claim there was no need for the adoption of the peculiar
and exclusive jurisdiction of the admiralty court; and
that an answer setting up the limitation of liability would
give the ship owner the relief to which he was entitled.
It appearing there, as it appears here, that only one claim
had been presented, and that the time fixed by the monition had expired, the court said (p. 222-223):

LANGNES v. GREEN.
531

Opinion of the Court.

"The owner of the vessel, therefore, can by answer in
the state court set up as a defense that he is not liable beyond the value of the vessel, and that value, may be determined as appropriately and as easily in that court as
in this. In the ex-parte proceedings here the vessel has
been appraised by appraisers chosen bk the petitioner,
and, while there may be no reason to question the fairness
and fullness of such appraisement, the plaintiff is entitled
to be heard on that question, and in the usual course of
the common-law proceeding that issue can be fairly tried.
"All that the petitioner can fairly claim is that he should
not be subject to a personal judgment for an indefinite
amount and beyond the value of his interest in the Lotta
and her freight. There is no reason to doubt that this
proper defense may be availed of in the state court, and
if there is an ulterior purpose, and -petitioner's object in
invoking the jurisdiction of this court is to escape a jury
trial and take the case away from the common-law jurisdiction, that purpose should receive no countenance here;
for the act which gives this court its admiralty and maritime jurisdiction saves to suitors in all cases the right of
the common-law remedy where the common law is competent to give it, and good faith requires that this proviso
shall have its full and fair effect."
Thereupon an order was entered dissolving the injunction against the prosecution of the action in the state
court, but retaining the petition for a limitation of liability, for the reason, as the court said, that "if it should
het'eafter appear in the course of the proceeings in the
state court'that a question is raised as to the right of petitioner to a limited liability, this court has exclusive cognizance of such a question . . . and the decision -upon
the question of, the injunction is predicated upon the assumption that that question is not involved in the suit
in the state court, and that the only questions to be de-

544

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

cided there are, first, whether the defendant is liable at
all, and, if so, as to the value of the vessel and her freight,
which is the limit of defendant's liability." See also
DelawareRiver Ferry Co. v. Amos, 179 Fed. 756.
Disposition of the matter, so as to allow the action to
proceed in the state court, finds warrant in like principles
which have been applied in other kinds of cases. Admiralty courts, for example, have complete jurisdiction
over suits of a maritime nature between foreigners.
Nevertheless "the question is one of discretion in every
case, and the court will not take cognizance of the case if
justice would be as well done by remitting the parties to
their home forum." The Maggie 'Hammond, 9 Wall.
435, 457; The Belgenland, 114 U. S. 355, 368; Charter
Shipping Co, v. Bowring, Jones & Tidy, 281 U. S.. 515,
517. See also, generally, Watts, Watts & Co. v. Unione
Austriaca,supra; and compare the opinion of the district
court upon the point in the same case, 224 Fed. 188, 191.
So, while the courts of this country have and may entertain jurisdiction of actions between nonresident foreigners
for torts committed in a foreign country, they will exercise such jurisdiction in their -discretion and only in special cases. Dewitt v. Buchanan, 54 Barb. 31, 34. And
see also National Telephone Mfg. Co. v. Du Bois, 165
Mass. 117, 118; Harrisv. PullmaA, 84 Ill. 20, 27.
The decrees of both courts below must be reversed and.
the cause remanded to the district court for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.

