BAIN PEANUT CO. v. PINSON.
493

-Statement of the Case.

subjected to great embarrassment and serious hazards in
the enforcement of contractual rights dir'ectly arising out
of and connected with such commerce." See, also, International Text Book Co. v. Pigg, supra, at pp. 112, 114;
Buck Stove Co. v. Vickers, 226 U. S. 205, 215, 216;
Dahnke-Walker Milling Co. v. Bondurant, supra.
We are of the opinion that the provisions of the statutes
of Arkansas, as applied in this case, are in conflict with the
commerce clause.
Judgment reversed.

BAIN PEANUT COMPANY OF TEXAS

Er AL. v.

PINSON ET AL.
APPEAL FROT THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS FOR THE
ELEVENTH JUDICIAL DISTRICT, STATE OF TEXAS.
No. 49. Argued January 12, 1931.-Decided February 24, 1931.
1. A judgment of an intermediate state court upholding the constitutionality of a Aate statute over objections based on the Federal Constitution, and as to which the Supreme Court of the State dismissed

an application for a writ of error "for want of jurisdiction," held
reviewable here, it appearing that, under the local law, the effect
(though not the form) of the action of the Supreme Court was to
affirm the judgment of the intermediate court on the constitutional
question. P. 500.
2. A state law allowing suits to be brought against private corporations in any county in which the cause of action arose, but against
individuals, in like cases, only in the counties where they reside, held
not repugnant to the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment. P. 501.
19 S.W. (2d) 203, affirmed.
APPEAL from a judgment of the Court of Civil Appeals,
of Texas, affirming recovery by Pinson and Guyger from
che Peanut Company in an action on a contract. For
earlier phases of the litigation see 273 S. W. 655; 287 id.
87; 292 id. 204; and 294 id. 536. After the argument
here, the appeal was ordered dignmissed for want of juris-

500

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

diction. See post, p. 811. It now appearing from an
explanatory statement by the Supreme Court of Texas
that its- jurisdiction over the constitutional question was
in fact exercised, the dismissal is set asid6, but the judgment is affirmed upon the merits.
Mr. B. q. Mansell, with 'whom Mr. B. L. Agertonr was
on the brief, for appellants.
Messrs. Gib Callaway and Mark Callaway submitted
for appellees.
M. JusmcE HOLMES delivered the opinion, of the
Court.
The Bain Peanut Company; a corporation of Texas,
was sued in Comanche County of that State, being the
county in which the cause of action arose. Its principal
office was in Tarrant County, Texas. In due form it
raised the question whether the statute of Texas (subdivision 24, Article 1830, R. S. 1911, now subdivision 23,
Article 1995, R. S. 1925) that allowed suits against pri-,
vate cof-porations to be broughi in any'county in which
the cause of action arose, was valid under the Fourteenth
Amendment of the Constitution when unincorporated individuals are assumed not to be "subject to suit outside
their domiciliary counties in ' similar situation." We understand the Supreme Court of the State to have upheld

the constitutionality of the statute, although at first we
were misled by the form of the order dismissing the application for a writ of error "for want of jurisdiction." A
certificate from the Court executed since the question of

our jurisdiction was before us satisfies us that the form
was adopted in cpmpliance with the Court's -interpretation of a statute, and that -vhile the Court was of opinion
that the judgment sought to be brought up was correct
'in upholding the statute, yet, since it also regarded the

BAIN PEANUT CO. v. PINSON.
499

Opinion of the Court.

opinion as incorrect in its declaration of the law, its duty
was to adopt the above quoted form. The judgment below stood affirmed in fact against the fully stated objection of the appellant, and justice requires that the objection should be dealt with, although at first it seemed
as if the Supreme Court was acting upon local grounds of
procedure with which we have nothing to do, except when
used as a cloak, Which was not the case here.
Coming then to the merits, we are of opinion that the
judgment was right. The interpretation of constitutional principles must not be too literal. We must remember that the machinery of government would not
work if it were not allowed a little play in its joints. In
deciding whether a corporation is denied the equal protection of the laws when its" creator establishes a more.
extensive venue for actions against it than is fixed for
private citizens, we have to consider, not a geometrical
equation between a corporation and a man, but whether
the difference does injustice to the class generally, even
though it bear hard in some particular case, which is not
alleged or proved here. Louisville & Nashville R. Co. v.
Barber Asphalt Paving Co., 197 U. S. 430, 434. Patsone v. Pennsylvania, 232 U. S, 138, 144. This it is for
the corporation to make out. The range of the State's
discretion is large. Armour & Co. v. North Dakota, 240
U. S. 510, 516, 517. The question seems to be answered
by CincinnatiStreet Ry. Co. v. Snell, 193 U. S. 30, 36, 37,
which lays down that, if the protection of fundamental
rights by equal laws equally administered is enjoyed, the
Constitution does not forbid allowing one person to seek
a forum from which another in the same class is excluded.
But without asserting a universal proposition, it is obvious that there is likely to be such a difference between
the business done by a corporation and that done by a
private person that the State well may take it into account when it permits a corp6ration to be formed. That

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Argument for Petitioner.

282 U. S.

the provision in question is reasonable is made more probable by the fact that it had been adopted and sustained
not only in Texas but in other States. Grayburg Oil
Co. v. Powell, 118 Texas 354; Lewis v. South Pacific Coast
R. Co., 66 Cal. 209; Cook v. W. S. Ray Mfg. Co., 159 Cal.
694; Central Georgia Power Co. v. Stubbs, 141 Ga. 172;
Begley v. Mississippi Valley Trust Co., (Mo.) 252 S. W.
84; MorrimacVeneer Co. v. McCalip, 129 Miss. 671, 683.
We cannot say that it is not.
Order dismissing,appeal vacated and judgment
affirmed.
ALABAMA, v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 82. Argued January 29,, 1931.-Decided February 24, 1931.
A suit against the United States by a State to recover the amotnt of
a privilege tax, with interest. and penalty, the tax being based on
a sale by the United States of surplus power generated at its hydroelectric plant in the State, held not within the jurisdiction conferred
on the Court of Claims by Jud. Code, ยง 145, over claims foundedupon the Constitution, upon any contract, express or implied, with
the Government, or for damages arising in cases not sounding in
tort. P. 506.
69 Ct. Cls- 340; 38 F. (2d) 897, reversed.
* CERTIORARI, 281' U. S. 718, to review a judgment dismissing on the merits a claim which, the opinion holds,
should have been dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

Messrs. Thomas E. Knight, Jr., Attorney General of
Alabama, and Oscar W. Underwood, Jr., with whom
Messrs. A. A. Evans and Charlie C. McCall, Assistant
Attorneys General, and H. C. Kilpatrick were on the brief,
for petitioner.
In the exercise of granted powers by the Federal Government and of reserved powers by a State, the two
sovereignties are upon an equality. Collector v. Day, 11

