BROAD RIVER CO. v. SO. CAROLINA.
175

Argument for Petitioners.

gravity had been exemplified in various methods for centuries, and that-long prior to the patent there in suit the
principle had been applied to various substances such as
grain, coal, crushed stone, sand, and iron ore, and said
[p. 1841:
"The observations of common experience in the mechanical arts would lead one to expect that once the
feasibility of using 'wet' concrete in building operations
was established, the mechanical skill of those familiar
with engineering and building problems would seek to
make use of known methods and appliances for the convenient handling of.this new building material."
Here'it appears that the use of compressed air for conveyance of granular and plastic materials had long been
known and practised; so that the cited'case is clear authority against invention in the instant cases.
The decree in No. 3 is reversed and the cause remanded
with instructions to dismiss the bill of complaint. The
decree in No. 4 is affirmed.
No. 3, reversed.
No. 4, affirmed.
BROAD RIVER POWER COMPANY ET A. v. SOUTH
CAROLINA Ex RUL. DANIEL, ATTORNEY GENERAL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREI:E COURT OF SOUTH3 CAROLINA.

No. 528 (1929 Term). Argued on Rehearing, December 3, 4, 1930.Decided December 15, 1930.
Upon rehearing of this cause, .the Court, though divided up.on the
reasons, adheres to the view that the writ of certiorari should be
dismissed for want.of jurisdiction. See 281 U. S. 537.

Mr. George M. LePine, with whom Messrs. C. Edward
Paxson, W. C. McLain and Win. Marshall Bullitt were
on the supplemental brief, for petitioners.

188

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Argument for Petitioners.

282 U.S.

Even if the statute incorporating the Consolidated
Railway and Electric Company created one unified franchise for street railway and electric service, the State
could not require operation of the railway at a loss.
This Court is definitely committed to the rule that a
State cannot fix a non-compensatory rate on one product
on the theory that the losses produced can be absorbed in
charges for other products. Northern Pacific R. Co. v.
North Dakota, 236 U. S. 585; Norfolk & Western Ry. v.
West Virginia, 236 U. S. 605; Chicago; M. & St. P. B.
Co. v. Public Utilities Comm., 274 U. S. 344.
The rule that a public service company may not be
compelled to serve, even in a branch of its business, at arate which is confiscatory, which was asserted in Northern
Pacific R. Co. v. North Dakota, supra, is based on the
principle that a utility is entitled to, compensation for
the use of its property devoted to suchb branch, of its
business, and that to require service without compensation constitutes confiscation. When, therefore, it appears,
as in the case at bar, that varying rates of fare have
been tried and found not to be compensatory, and that
no rte of fare can be compensatory, to require service
at any rate of fare (for there must be some established
rate) must be deemed to constitute confiscation.
As a branch of utility service, the electric light and
power business is far more distinct from street railways
than wheat traffic was from coal traffic in the North
Dakota case.
In the case at bar did the Court mean to hold that electric light and power consumers could by increased light
and power rates be made to bear the losses in street railway operation, so that the total receipts from the unifiek
franchise would be compensatory for the unified investment? If so, what becomes of the doctrine of the North
Dakota case?

BROAD RIVER CO. v. SO. CAROLINA.
187

Argument for Petitioners.

-It is true that the case at bar is not a rate case, but in
view of the certainty that street railway service by this
company must be given at an operating loss, the case of
Northern Pacific R. Co. v. North Dakota, supra, and the
principle on which that case was decido are directly
applicable.
The fundamental basis of that decision is that the
power of the State to regulate rates (and service) is
founded upon its police power, which extends to property
which is employed in a public business, and reasonable
regulations are to be sustained, while unreasonable regulations are in conflict with the property rights of the
owners and are to be set aside.
That it is the dedication of the property to a public
use, and not any contractual relation, which authorizes
the State to make reasonable regulatiops as to the service
which shall be rendered in the mauagement of the property so dedicated, is evident 'from other decisions of this
Court. These cases establish the rule that, once property has been devoted to a particular public-use, the State
may make reasonable regulations governing that use, and
may require service to be rendered in connection with
that use, though pecuniary loss must unavoidably be incurred, but that a State may not require property devoted
to one public use to be applied to a different public use,
and may not prevent the withdrawal of property devoted
to a particular public use when the property can be operated only 'at a loss. Che8apeake & 0. Ry. Co. -v.
Public Service Comm., 242 U. S. 603; Wolff Co. v. Industrial Court, 262 U. S. 522.
The real basis for the obligations which arise in the
case of a railway is the dedication of the property to a
public use .by putting the railway in operation under a
legislative grant, rather than a contract relation which
exists, from the- charter itself. Cf. Atlantic Coast Line
R. Co. v. CorporationComm., 206 U. S. 1.

190

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Argument for Petitioners.

-

282 U.S.

Applying this rule to the case at bar, it becomes evident that when the railway company constructed its line
of railway in the city streets it dedicated the same to the
carriage of passengers, and so long as it continued in that
business it could not refuse to perform any railway service
required of it, and it could not withdraw that property
from the public servi6e unless continued operation could
only be had at a loss; when it engaged in the electric
light bnd power business it dedicated its electric properties to the rendition of electric services, in the same way
and subject to the same limitations, and the same limitations apply to its gas properties, but the power of regulation which a State possesses over private propjerty
devoted to public use gives no warrant for requiring that
an electric property lawfully devoted to a particular public use, such as furnishing light and power, shall be devoted, to" a further public use, such as carrying passengers on a street railway. Distinguishing: United Fuel
Gas Co. v. Railroad Comm., 278 U. S.300; St. Louis &
San FranciscoRy. Co. v. Gill, 156 U. S.649; Puget Sound
Traction Co. v. Reynolds, 244 U. S. 574.
If. the contention of the State of South Carolina and
the decision of the state court are to be sustained 'n the
ground that the busness of the company must be treated
as onepublic servic6 enterprise, then, as held in Texas v.
Eastern Texas R. Co., 264 U. S. 79, that property must
be considered to have been devoted as one entire property
to the use of the public "on condition that the public
shall supply sufficient traffic on a reasonable rate basis
to yield a fair return," and this means that if losses are
incurred in the street railway they must be made up out
of the electric rates. This results in requiring consumers
of electricity to pay a portion -f the cost of transportation of street car passengers, who may be an entirely
different set of persons. Any such decision is contrary
to the decision in the case of Northern Pacific R. Co. v.

BROAD RIVER CO. v. SO. CAROLINA.
187

Argument for Petitioners.

North, Dakota, 236 U. S. 585, and the other decisions
which have followed it.
The principles contended for by petitioners have the
sanction of other courts. Mt. Carmel Pub. Util. Ca. v.
Public Utilities Comm., 297 II. 303; Illinois Trust & S&
Bank v. Doud, 105 Fed. 123.
No binding effect can be given by this Court to the decision of the South Carolina court as to the effect of the
consolidhted charter or the existence or construction of
alleged contracts, but this Courtmust reach its own independent conclusion thereon,
It is true that where a case involves both federal and
non-federal questions, and a non-federal -ground of decision has fair support, this Court will not inquire whether
the decision of the state court is right or wrong (VandaliaR. Co. v. Indiana,207 U. S. '359; EnterpriseIrrigation District v. Canal Co., 243 U. S. 157,) but if the nonfederal ground is without substantial support, constitutional issues will not be permitted to be evaded. Ward
v. Love County, 253 U. S. 17; Leathe v. Thomas, 207
U..S. 93.
Again, where property rights are claimed to have
been interfered with, the nature and scope of those rights
is a state 'questiofi. Sauer v. New York, 206 U. S. 536;
Fox River Paper Co. v. Railroad Commission, 274 U. S.
651. But where it becomes necessary to consider whether
a State is depriving, or attempting to deprive, a litigant
of property without due process of law in violation of the
Fourteenth Amendment, and the question turns on the
existence and terms of an asserted contract, this Court
determines for itself whether there is a contract and what
-are its 'ferms. Louisville & N. R. Co. v. Palmes, 109 U. S.-244,255; Stearns v. Minnesota, 179 U. S. 223; Texas v.
Eastern Texas R. Co., 264 U. S. 79, 86-87; Georgia Ry.
& Power Co. v. Decatur, 262 U. S. 432; Appleby v. New
York,.271 U. S. 364; Louisiana Ry. & Nay. Co. v. New

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U.S.

Orleans, 235 U. S. 164; Douglas v. Kentucky, 168 U. S.
488; St. Paul Gas Co. v. St. Paul, 181 U. S. 142; Atlantic,
Coast Line R. Co. v. Goldsboro, 232 U. S.548; New York
Elec. Lines v. Empire City Subway Co., 235 U. S. 179.
The statute creating the Consolidated Railway and
Electric Company did not create a unified franchise for
street railway and electric service.
The evidence conclusively shows that the street railway system in question cannot be operated except at a
devastating loss.
The statutes, ordinances and private contracts set up
by the -State do not jubtify a requirement that the street
railway in question be operated.
Mr. Irvine F. Belser, with whom Messrs. John M. Daniel, Attorney Gexheral of South Carolina, Cordie Page,
Assistant Attorney General, Joseph L. Nettles, City Attorney of Columbia, S. C., H. N. Edmunds, and C. T.
Graydon were on the supplemental brief, for respondents.
PER CUMM.
At the last term the writ of certiorari in this cause was
dismissed for want of jurisdiction. 281 U. S. 537. A
rehearing afterwards was ordered by the Court and the
rehearing recently has been had. Upon this further consideration the Court adheres to the view that the writ of
certiorari should be dismissed for want of jurlsdiction, but
the members of the Court differ in the reasons which lead
to that decision:
Mm. Jus'icE-V" DEvANER, IR. JtUSTrCE McRtyWoLns, M2. JusTicE Su ILA)
and MR. JusTIcm
Bunihm concur in this disposition of the case, upon the
rehearing, for the following reasons: The state court
found that .the petitioners here "did not make a bona
fide effort to make the street railway business a success,"
but planned to discontinueit and pursued a course tend-

BROAD RIVER CO. v. SO. CAROLINA.
187

Opinion of the Court.

ing to depress the business and make it unremunerative;
that "if the street car system had been properly maintaihed, as it could and should have been, the same would
have been patronized by the public generally"; and that
the "street railway system can be made to yield a fair
return if properly managed and properly maintained."
These findings, although opposed to part of the evidence,
have such support in other parts that they should be
accepted here. In the presence of such findings, so supported, it is apparent that on the present record petitioners are not in a position to maintain that enforced
operation of the street railway system will be in contravention of rights secured by the due process of law clause
of the Fourteenth Amendment. An essential basis in
matter of fact for the right sought to be asserted under
that constitutional provision is wanting; and as this is
true regardless of whether the electric street railway
franchise be independent or so unified with other franchises as to be interdependent, there is no present need
to consider or determine its status in that regard.
The CIimF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE HOLMES, AIR. JUSTICE
BRANDEis and MR. JUSTICE STONE adhere to the views
expressed in the opinion heretofore delivered. 281 U. S.
.537.
*Mb.JusTIcE ROBERTS, considering himself disqualified,
took no part in the decision of this case.
22110°-31

1S

