OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Syllabus.

FLORIDA

ET AL.

282 U. S.

v. UNITED STATES ET AL.

BROOKS-SCANLON CORPORATION ET AL. v. SAME.
WILSON LUMBER COMPANY OF FLORIDA v.

SAME.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.

Nos. 16, 17, and 18. Argued October 30, 31, 1930.-Decided
Jailuary 5, 1931.
1. An order of the Interstate Commerce, Commission requiring a
railroad to increase its intrastate rates throughout an entire State
to correspond with interstate rates prescribed by'the Commission
for potential traffic in the same commodity between points in a
limited region of that State and point in an adjacent State, cannot
be sustained under § 13 (4) of the Interstate Commerce Act as
an execution of the power to remove undue prejudice "as between
persons or localities in intrastate commerce on the one hand anr
interstate . . . commerce on the other hand," in the absence of
explicit findings by the Commission justifying such extension of
the order. P. 208.
2. An order of the Commission fixing certain interstate rates and
requiring an increase of intrastate rates to the same level, which
was made after hearing the parties interested, including the States
concerned, should not be.upset merely because of the manner in
which the 15roceeding was initiated or because of the generality of
the complaint., if findings based on evidence show that in substance
the order was within the Commission's authority. P. 209.
3. The power over rates "made or ivaposed by authority of any
State," which is conferred upon the Commission by § 13 (3) and
(4) of the Interstate Commerce Act to protect interstate commerce
from unjust discrimination, applies to rates which were initiated by
a carrier and not affirmatively prescribed by the State, bt which
were published under its laws and are maintained subject to its
authority. P. 209.
4. The general provisions of § 13 (4) prohibiting "unjust discrimination against interstate commerce," and authorizing, the Commission to establish intrastate rates to prevent such discrimination, is
to be considered in the light of the affirmative duty of the Com-

FLORIDA v. UNITED STATES.
194

Syllabus.

mission under § 15 (a) to fix rates and take other important steps
to maintain an adequate national railway system. P 210. ,
5. The effective operation of the Act requires that intrastate traffic
should pay a fair proportionate share of the cost of maintenance.
And if there is interference with the accomplishment of the purpose of the Congress because of a-disparity between intrastate
rates and interstate rates, the Commission is authorized to end
the disparity by directly removing it. P. 211.
6. The propriety of an exertion of this authority must be tested
by its relation to the purpose of the grant and with regard to the
principle that whenever the federal power is exerted within what
would otherwise be the domain of state power, the justification
of the exercise of the federal power must clearly appear. P. 211.
7. The mere existence of a disparity between particular rates on
intrastate and interstate traffic does not warrant the Commission
in prescribing intrastate rates. P. 211.
8. If the action of the Commission is not simply for the removal of
undue prejudice against interstate commerce as between persons
or localities, and the Commission undertakes to prescribe'a statewide level of intrastate rates in order to avoid an undhe burden,
from a revenue standpoint, upon the interstate carrier, there
should be appropriate findings upon evidence to support an order
directed to that end. P. 212.
9. In the present instance (where the Commission did not undertake
to establish a statewide level of interstate rates) to sustain the
order fixing statewide intrastate rates, there should have been
findings, supported by evidence, of the essential facts as fo the
particular traffic and revenue, and as to the effect of the intrastate
rates, both existing and as prescribed, upon the income of the
carrier, which would justify the conclusion that the order was
needed to avoid an undue burden on the carrier's revenues and a
consequent interference with the maintenance of an adequate
transportation system. A general statement that the intrastate
rates resulted "in unjust discrimination against interstate commerce," will not suffice. P. 212.
10. A finding that the existing intrastate rates on the particular
traffic were not remunerative or reasonably compensatory, does
not justify the order. P. 214.
11. In dealing with unjust discrimination as between persons and
localities in relation to interstate commerce, the question is one of
the relation of rates to each other; but in considering the authority
of the Commission to enter the state field and to change a scale of

196

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Argument for Appellants.

282 U. S.

intrastate rates in the interest of the carrier's revenue, the question
is that of the relation of rates to income., P. 214.
12.- he raising of rates does not necessarily increase revenue; it may
reduce it by discouraging patronage. Id. '
13. In the absence of basic findings essential tq support the Commission's order, the Court is not called upon to examine the
evidence in order to resolvd opposing contentions as to whit it
shows or to spell out and state such conclusions of fact as it may
permit. Beaumont, S. L. & W. By. Co. v. United States, ante,
p. 74, distinguished. P. 215.
30 F. (2d) 116; 31 id. 580, reversed.

APPFALS from decrees of the District Court upholding
an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission reduciig intrastate rates, in three suits to set it aside.
Mr. FredH. Davis, Attorney General of Florida, for the
State of Florida et al.
The primary issue before the Commission was the interstate rate; the intrastate rate was involved only inc4dentally in its relationship to the interstate rate.
The proceedings were adversary proceedings of limited
scope in: which it was unlawful for the Commission to
exercise power under § 13 (4) in its relation with § 15a.
It was unlawful for the Commission to exercise fedeial
power with respect to intrastate rates beyond the sphere
in which interstate rates were prescribed. The power
under § 13 in its ':dovetail relation" with § 15a is not a
direct, but is an incidental power, in its essence the. same
power that was invoked in the original Shreveport base.
Railroad Commissionv. Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co., 257 U. S.
563; Colorado v. United States, 271 U. S. 153.
It is to be conclusively presumed that Cohgress .did not
intend this incidental power to be exercised with respect
to intrastate rates except (a) in territory where the direct
federal power with respect to interstate rates and rate
levels has been exercised, and (b) where a substantial
evil has been clearly shown to exist, and (c) then only to

FLORIDA v. UNITED STATES.
194

Argument for Appellants.

the extent necessary to remedy the particular evil in the
particular case in hand.
The only appropriate proceeding for the entry of an
order prescribing intrastate rates for application, "within
and throughout" a State "without exception" is in a
direct attack upon the level of the intrastate rates in a
proceeding instituted either (a) upon the petition of the
carrier, or (b) upon an order of the Commission, entered
for that purpose, itself either instituting such proceeding or extending the scope of a pending complaint for
that purpose.
Even if it be conceded that the "new power" conferred
upon the Commission by § 13 (4) authorizes it, in conjunction with its duty under § 15a, to prescribe intrastate
rates in a proceeding where the level of the interstate
rate was the primary issue, an intrastate order statewide
"without exception" is not appropriate to a proceeding
where the primary "relief desired" and granted covered
only a small portion of the State.
Neither the showing before the Commission nor the
investigation made by it was sufficient to warrant imposing its will upon a sovereign State, statewide and without exception. Interstate Commerce Comm. v. Louisville
& N. R. Co., 227 U. S. 88; Illinois Central R. Co. v. Public
Utilities Comm., 245 U. S. 493, 510; American Express
Co. v. South Dakota, 244 U. S. 617, 625; Railroad Commission v. Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co., 257 U. S. 563, 580.
An order of the Commission must be set aside, even
when in form within the delegated power, if it be shown
that in substance there has been a misuse or abuse of the
power delegated. Interstate Commerce Comm. v. Union
Pac. R. Co., 222 U. S. 541, 547; Lawrence V. St. Louis,
S. F. Ry. Co., 274 U. S. 588.
Comparison of the case at bar with the Wisconsin Rate
Case, 257 U. S. 563, demonstrates that the prerequisites

198

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Argument for Appellants.

292 U.S.

present in the latter for superseding the state power are
absent here.
Mr. Henry P. Adair, with whom Messrs. Charles ,E.
Cotterill, August G. Gutheim, and H. Plant Osborne were
on. the brief, for the Brooks-Sdanlon Corporation et al.
Mr. J. V. Norman for the Wilson Lumber Company of
Florida.
The order of the Commission was beyond the scope of
the issues raised in the proceeding before it; it was made
without any substantial evidence to support it.
A mere difference in rate levels, interstate as compared
with intrastate, is not sufficient to justify an order increasing the intrastate rates within and throughout the
entire State.
The fact that the rates on logs intrastate within Florida
are lower than certain interstate rates in the same general
territory of movement on other low grade commodities
constitutes no justification for a statewide order increasing the intrastate rate on logs.
The order was made with6ut the full hearing required
as precedent thereto by the Interstate Commerce Act.
Interstate Commerce Comm. v. Louisville & N. R. Co.,
227 U. S. 88, 91; Mew England Divisions Case, 261 U. S.
184, 200; Baltimore& 0. R. Co. v. United States, 264 U. S.
258, 265.
The order was beyond the scope of the Commission's
statutory power. There was no evidence that the Florida
intrastate rates constituted a burden upon or unjust discrimination against interstate commerce.
The Commission, in condemning existing rates and in
fixing rates for the future, is not authorized to "supplement" the facts shown of record before it, or to rely upon
"the -comm'on knowledge and skill in rate matters that
the Interstate Commerce Commission, the Georgia and

FLORIDA v. UNITED STATES.
194

Argument for the United States.

Florida state commissions, and the railroads must have in
such matters."
The Commission was without power to regulate the intrastate rates because they were voluntarily initiated and
maintained in effect by the carrier and were not rates
"made or imposed by authority of any State" within the
description of § 13 (3) and (4) of the Interstate Commerce Act.
The order was in contravention of the Federal Constitution.
Assistant to the Attorney General O'Brian,with whom
Solicitor GeneralThacher and Messrs. Charles H. Weston,
Special Aisistant to the Attorney General, and Daniel W.
Knowlton, Chief Counsel, Interstate Commerce Commission, were on the brief, for the United States and Interstate Commerce Commission.
Paragraph (4) of § 13 of the Interstate Conimerce Act
authorizes the Commission to remove any undue discrimination against interstate commerce caused by an intrastate rate, and paragraph (3) of § 13 provides that the
State shall*be notified if any rate "made or imposed"
by state authority is brought in issue before the Commission. This directory provision is not a jurisdictional
limitation on the Commission's power under paragraph
(4). Its authority under the latter extends to any intrastate rate, whether or not made or imposed by state
authority. Even if the directory provision be a jurisdictional limitation, the Commission could deal with these
Florida log rates under § 13 (4), since they were made or
imposed by the State of Florida.
The terms of § 13 (4), its purpose as construed in Wisconsin Railroad Comm. v. Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co., 257
U. S.563, and its interpretation in decisions of the Commission clearly indicate that it permits the Commission,

200

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Argument for the United States.

282 t. S.

in any proceeding authorized by the Act where undue
discrimination against interstate commerce is in~issue, to
act against any offending intrastate rate. The Commission therefore was authorized by the statute to make a
finding in this case of undue discrimination against interstate commerce, although the proceeding before the Commission was not initiated for the sole purpose of increasing
an intrastate rate, and although it did not involve the
entire rate structure of a State.
The complaint filed with the Commission charged that
these Florida log rates caused undue discrimination
against interstate commerce in violation of § 13 (4) and
asked relief against this violation. The intervention of
certain railroads raised the same issue, and it was indirectly raised by the answer of the Atlantic Coast Line.
The complainant alonb could not waive this issue, and
it also did not intend so to do. The examiner who conducted the hearing considered and passed upon it. Full
opportunity was given to present evidence and arguments on it, and the Commission's order directed to the
removal of undue discrimination was based on a full
hearing.
Where an order of the Commission interferes with a
rate which has been put into effect in the affirmative
exercise of the rate-making power of a State, a higher
degree of proof may be required to sustain it than is
required on a court review of other orders oi the Commission. This requirement, if it exists, does not apply to the
Commission's order increasing these Florida intrastate log
rates, since they were not put into effect by any exercise
of the State of Florida's rate-making power. Where an
order of the Commission, as in this case, merely trenches,
in the interest of interstate commerce, on the traditional
reserved powers of the State, it is binding when supported
by substantial evidence. Colorado v. United States, 271'

FLORIDA v. UNITED STATES.
194

Argument for Atlantic Coast Line.

U. S. 153. But whatever the degree of proof required,
there was here convincing proof, in the form of a showing of the carrier's costs in transporting logs intrastate in
Florida in relation to its revenue therefrom under the
assailed rates, in the form of extensive and pertinent comparisons with other rates, and in the form of direct testimony, that the rates under attack were so low as to cause
undue discrimination against interstate commerce.
Mr. Robert C. Alston, with whom Messrs. F. B. Grier,
Carl H. Davis, and W. E. Kay were on the brief, for the
Atlantic Coast Line Railroad Company.
The question involved is one of discrimination,, and
burden on interstate commerce, and that is a question of
fact. VirginianRy. v. United States, 272 U. S. 658.
Finding by the Commission of unreasonable discrimination, being supported by substantial evidence, will not
be reviewed by,the Court. Virginian Ry. v. United States,
supra; Tagg Bros. & Moorhead v. United States, 280 U.
S. 420; New England Divisions Case, 261 U. S. 184, 204.
The Commission had the power to enter the order because the Florida intrastate rates were unduly preferential of intrastate shippers and unduly prejudicial against
interstate shippers and shipments and against localities
and against interstate commerce, and unduly preferential
of a particular description of traffic. Minnesota Rate
Cases, 230 U. S. 352; H1ouston, E. & W. T. Ry. v. United
States, 234 U. S. 342; American Express Co. v. Caldwell,
244 U. S. 617; Wisconsin Railroad Comm. v. Chicago, B.
& Q. R. Co., 257 U. S. 563; Illinois CentralR. Co. v. Public Utilities Comm., 245 U. S. 493; Colorado v. United
States, 271 U. S. 152, 162; Railroad Commission v. Southem Pacific, 264 U. S. 331, 347; Texas & Pac. Ry. Co. v.
Gulf, C. & S. F. Ry. Co., 270 U. S. 266, 277; United States
v. Village of Hubbard, 266 U. S.. 474; Missouri Pac. R.
Co. v. Boone, 270 U. S. 466.
-

202

QCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

Congress has exclusive power to deal with the relation
of interstate and intrastate rates. Shreveport Case, 234
U. S. 354; Dayton-Goose Creek Ry. v. United States, 263
U. S. 456, 477.
The disadvantage at which the Cunmer scale of rates
placed the competitors of Florida manufacturers- in the
selling market constituted discrimination.
MR. CHIF
the Court.

JusTIcE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

The State of Florida and-tfe members of its Railroad
Commission (appellants in No. 16) brought suit in the
District Court to restiain the enforcement of that part of
an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission which
dealt with certain intrastate rates of the Atlantic Coast
Line Railroad Company in Florida. The order, made
August 2, 1928, required the Railroad Company to establish carload rates for logs (except walnut, cherry, and
cedar) in intrastate commerce "within the State of
Florida" which should be the same as the rates prescribed
by the Interstate Commerce Commission as reasonable
for transportation in interstate commerce from points in
the northern portion of Florida to destinations in Georgia,.
The order in that respect was assailed as being outside the
scope of the issues raised in the proceeding in which the
order was entered and without substantial evidence to
support it, and as extending beyond the statutory authority of the Commission and the limits of federal power
under the Constitution.
Suits for similar relief were brought by the BrooksScanlon Corporation and other corporations (appellants
in No. 17) and by the Wilson Lumber Company (appellant in No. 18), manufacturers and shipper of lumber in
Florida. The Public Service Commission of Georgia was
permitted to intervene, and the three suits were consoli-

FLORIDA v. UNITED STATES.
194

Opinion of the Court.

dated and heard before a court of three judges as required
by the applicable statute.
The court was of the opinion that the order of the Commission touching iritrastate rates could be construed as
being limited to points of origin on the Atlantic Coast
Line Railroad in the northern part of Florida, as the Com-,
mission had confined its order to these points of origin in
fixing interstate rates. Taking the view that, if construed
so as to apply to intrastate rates throughout the State,
the order would probably be invalid, the pourt sustained
it upon the narrower construction. Decrees were entered
accordingly in January, 1929, dismissing the bills. 30.
Fed. (2d) 116.
Thereupon the Interstate Commerce Commission
amended its order,by inserting additional exceptions of
logs, and also with respect to intrastate rates, "for the
purpose of clarification," by substituting for the phrase
"within the State of Florida" the words "within and
throughout the entire State of Florida, without exception." Petitions for rehearing and for leave to file supplemental bills were then presented to the District Court
and were granted. The Atlantic Coast Line Railroad
Company was allowed to intervene. On the rehearing,
both the original and supplemental bills were dismissed.
31 Fed. (2d) 580. The court upheld the amended order
of the Commission as to intrastate rates, in its statewide
operation, not "because of undue prejudice to shippers
,Ind localities, or because of undue discrimination against
the particularinterstate commerce " in the described logs,
but solely upon the ground that the order was aimed at a
discrimination "against general interstate commerce,"
caused by intrastate rates which were so low as to throw
an undue burden upon the interstate .revenubs of the
carrier.
From the decrees entered accordingly the present
appeals are brought.

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

The proceeding before the Interstate Commerce Commission was begun by the filing 9f a complaint hy 'the
Georgia Public Service Commission against the Atlantic
Coast Line Railroad Company. The complaint stated
that its object was to secure reasonable rates on logs from
points on the Railroad Company's line within Florida to
all deptinations on its line in Georgia, and to remove any
unjust discrimination found to exist as provided in the
Interstate Commerce Act. The complaint alleged that
there was competition between mills and consumers in
Georgia and those in Florida in the-purchase and transportation of logs from points in Florida to destinations in
Georgia. The intrastate log rates of that railroad in
Florida, and its interstate log rates between Florida and
Georgia, for distances up to 170 miles were set forth, and
it was alleged that the interstate rates greatly exceeded
the intrastate rates for like distances upon traffic moving
under substantially similar conditions. The complaint
charged that the interstate rates were unjust and unreasonable in violation of section 1, were unjustly'discriminatory in violation of section 2, and were unduly prejudicial
to the interstate shipper and preferential in favor of the
intrastate shipper in violation of section 3, of the Interstate Commerce Act. It was also charged that the carrier's intrastate rates in Florida gave unreasonable preference to intrastate shippers in that State and were unduly
prejudicial to interstate shippers in Georgia, causing an
unjust discrimination against interstate commerce in
Violation of section 13 of the Act. The complainants
asked for an order requiring the Atlantic Coast Line Railroad. Company to desist from the described violations of
the Act, and prescribing just, reasonable, and non-discriminatory interstate rates to be charged by the defendant
carrier for the transportation of carload shipments of logs
from all Florida points to all destinations in Georgia, and
that the measure of such rates should be no higher than

FLORIDA v. UNITED STATES.
194

Opinion of the Court.

those concurrently in effect for the same kind of property
moving in intrastate commerce in Florida.
The State of Florida was notified of the proceeding, and
the Florida Railroad Commission appeared in.defense of
the Florida intrastate rates. There were a number of
interveners, including shippers of logs in intrastate commerce in Florida, Georgia lumber companies, and railroad
companies operating in Florida and between Florida and
Georgia, and all parties were fully heard.
In its report, the Interstate Commerce Commission
Atated that while the complainant assailed the rates from
all Florida points, the record showed that, so far as interstate ra-es were concerned, relief was desired only 'with
respect to the rates on logs "from that portion of Florida
lying riorth of and including Jacksonville, Gainesville,
Burnett's Lake, and High Springs," described as north
Florida, "to destinations in Georgia for distances mt
exceeding 170 miles." The Commission pointed out that
the Florida intrastate rates under attack were published
for carload lots for 170 miles and less. The history of
these rates was reviewed. With certain modifications and
extensions, they were what was generally known as the
"Cummer scale," which had originally been established
by contract between a prede.cessor railroad company and
a lumber company. This contract, the obligations of
which were assumed by the Atlantic Coast Line Railroad
Company, expired in 1918 and was not renewed. Meanwhile, in 1914, the Railroad Company had entered into a
similar contract with the predecessor in interest of the
intervener Brooks-Scanlon Corporation, and this contract
was to continue in effect-until certain timber, tributary
to the line of the railroad, had been transported. Accordingly, the Railroad Company filed schedules with the
Florida Railroad Commission extending the Cummer scale
for described distances. The State Commission refused to
permit the proposed rates to become effective because

206

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282TJ. S.

they were applicable only on trainloads and were not
available to all shippers. That Commission further advised the Railroad Company that the rates were too low
-and such as might be deemed confiscatory. The rates
Were republished to apply on carloads over all of the
Company's lines in Florida. These rates, extended with
respect to distances and modified by certain increases and
reductims, have been continued by the Railroad Company for the purpose of complying with its contractual
obligations and not because it has considered the scale to
be a proper one for general application on intrastate traffic
within Florida.
While not admitting that the interstate rates were
unreasonable, the Railroad Company submitted to the
Interstate Commerce Commission a proposal for, their revision. The Commission made a tabular comparison of
the existing *interstate and intrastate rates and the proposed interstate rates from north Florida, and after a
further statement of the evidence concluded that the interstate rates thus proposed were reasonable.
The Commission then made the following findings as to
interstate and intrastate rates:
"We find that the interstate rates on logs, except walnut, cherry, and cedar, in carloads, from points on defendant's lines in Florida north of and including Jacksonville, Gainesville, Burnett's Lake, and High Springs, to
destinations on its lines in Georgia for distances-not exceeding 170 miles are, and for the -future will be, unreasonable to the extent that they exceed, or may exceed, the
following distance scale ,of rates in cents per 100 poundS,
minimum weight 40,000 pounds, which rates we find are,
and will be reasonable: [inserting schedule]
"We further find that the Florida intrastate fates assailed, which are lower than the interstate rates herein
found reasonable for corresponding distances, result, and

FLORIDA v. UNITED STATES.
194

207

Opinion of the Court.

will result, in undue preference and advantage of shippers
of intrastate traffic within the State of Florida, in undue

prejudice to shippers of interstate traffic from points in
the State of Florida to points in the State of Georgia, and

in unjust discrimination against interstate commerce.
"We further find that said undue preference and advantage, undue prejudice, and unjust discrimination can
and should be removed by the establishment of rates for

intrastate application within Florida which shall correspond with the rates herein found reasonable for interstate application from Florida to Georgia.
"We further find that whether the aforesaid rates pertain to transportation in interstate commerce or to transportation in intrastate commerce the transportation
services in each instance are performed by defendant
under substantially similar circumstances and conditions."
The order of the Commission, entered upon this report,
after prescribing the interstate rates from northern Florida to Georgia, continued with respect to intrastate rates
in Florida as follows:
"It is further ordered, That said defendant be, and it
is hereby notified and required to cease and desist from
practicing the undue preference and- advantage, undue
prejudice, and unjust discrimination found in said report
to exist in the relation of intrastate and interstate rates
and to establish, put in force, and maintain rates for the
transportation of logs, except walnut, cherry, and cedar,
in carloads, minimum weight 40,000 pounds, in intrastate
commerce within the State of Florida which shall be the
same as those prescribed in the next preceding paragraph
hereof as reasonable for transportation in interstate commerce from points in the State of Florida to destinations'
in the State of Georgia."
This order, as already stated, was amended so as definitely to provide that the requirement as to intrastate

208

OCTOBER TERM, i930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

rates should apply throughout the entire State of Florida,
without exception. In making this amendment there
was no further report or finding of the Commission.
We agree with the conclusion of the District Court that,
on the facts that have been found by the Commission, the
order with respect to intrastate rates in its statewide
application cannot be sustained by reason of a proper
determination of undue prejudice "as between. persons, or
localities in intrastate commerce on the one hand and
interstate . . . commerce on the other hand." Interstate
Commerce Act, sec. 13 (4). The limitation of the Com'mission's finding as to interstate rates, and of the order
prescribing them, to transportation from. points in the
northern part of Florida to points in Georgia, defined the
interstate commerce which was deemed to be concerned.
All of this commerce was potential, no actual movement
from Florida to Georgia having been shown. It would be
an eitreme and unwarranted assumption that to protect
this interstate commerce from unjust discrimination as
between persons or localities, it was necessary to alter the
existing rates for the transportation of logs between all
points whatever within Florida. Such a conclusion would
not only require evidence to support it but findings of
appropriate definiteness to express it. Illinois Central
Railroad Company v. State Public Utilities Commission,
245 U. S. 493, 507, 508; Railroad Commission of Wisconsin v. Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Railroad Company,
257 U. S. 563, 579, 580; New York v. United States, 257
U. S. 591, 600. The District Court, again examining the
record upon the rehearing, reaffirmed its opinion that
there was nq such evidence, and it is sufficient on this
appeal .to observe that there are no findings of proper
explicitness to that effect. Recognizing that the statewide order of the Commission as to intrastate rates was
upheld only because the intrastate rates were deemed to

FLORIDA v. UNITED STATES.

209

Opinion of the Court.

194

be so low as to cause "undue discrimination against the
carrier's general interstate commerce," the Government
and the Commission have addressed their argument before
this Court to the defense of the order upon that ground.
Dealing with the order in this aspect, we may briefly
dismiss the appellants' preliminary objections in relation
to the scope of the proceeding and the adequacy of the
hearing before the Commission. As the Florida Railroad
Commission appeared in defense of the intrastate rates,
and the Railroad Company, the rates of which were in
question, and other parties in interest, both shippers and
carriers, were heard, the question now presented relates to
the substance of the determination of the Commission and
its support in the evidence rather than to*mere matters
of pleading and procedure. In making its order, the Commission could exercise all the authority conferred by the
Interstate Commerce Act for the purpose of removing
stLch unjust discrimination as was found to exist. If the
Commission had made adequate findings supported by evidence upon the point under consideration, we should not
be disposed to conclude that the order must be upset because of the manner in which the proceeding was initiated
or of the generality of the allegations of the complaint.
Nor do we find that the order exceeds the authority of
the Commission in the view that the intrastate rates under consideration were not "made or i:mposed" by authority of the State within the meaning of section 13 (3) of
the Act. While the "Cummer scale" of rates was not
prescribed by the Florida Railroad Commission and was
not the result of any affirmative action on its part, these
rates were maintained in intrastate commerce subject to
the authority of the State and were published as required
by its laws. These rates may thus be regarded as made
by the authority of the State and within the purview of
the Act unless its provisions disclose an intention to ex22110o-31---14

210

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

elude intrastate rates of this sort. But it is clear that the
fundamental purpose of the Congress in enacting section
13, subdivisions (3) and. (4), was to reach intrastate rates
that were f6und to result in unjust discrimination against
interstate commerce. It was not the fact that the rate
was affirmatively prescribed by the State, but that it was
maintained as an intrastate rate, and as-such was inimical
to the proper interests of interstate commerce, that led
the Congress to give to the Interstate Commerce Commission express authority to take cognizance of that rate and
to prescribe the intrastate rate that should be charged
thereafter in order to remove the undue discrimination.
See Board of Railroad Commissioners v. Great Northern
Railway Company, 281 U. S. 412, 424-428. The provision of section 13 (3) for notice to, and conference with,
the authorities of the State, is important not only where
-the rates have been prescribed by the State, but also
where they are in force with the permission of the State
and, as intrastate rates, would otherwise be subject to
the jurisdiction of the State. To hold, -assome of the appellants urge, that there can be no adjustment of intrastate rates by the Interstate Commerce Commission so
far as may be needed to protect interstate commerce until
the State itself has first "sat in judgment on the isstie of
the lawfulness bf those intrastate rates" would be to impose a limitation not required by the terms of the statute
and repugnant to the grant of authority.
The power of the Congress to authorize the Interstate
Commerce Commission to establish intrastate rates in
order to remove an unjust discrimination against interstate commerce is not open to dispute. Houston, East &
West Texas Railway Company v. United States,'234 U. S.
342; Illinois Central Railroad Company v. State Public
Utilities Commission, supia; Railroad Commission of
Wisconsin v. Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Railroad
Company, supra; Arkansas Railroad Commission v. Chi-

FLORIDA v. UNITED STATES.
194

211

Opinion of the Court.

cago, Rock Island & Pacific Railroad Company, 274 U. S.
597; Alabama v. United States, 279 U. S. 229. In the
exercise of this power, the Congress has given to the Commission authority not only to remove anundue prejudice
as between persons or localities, but to establish a statewide level of intrastate rates when this is found to be necessary to accomplish the purpose of the statute. In
construing the statute this Court has held that the general
provision of section 13 (4) prohibiting "unjust discrimination again'st interstate commerce" and authorizing the
Commission to establish intrastate rates to prevent such
discrimination, is to be read in connection with section
15a, both of which were added by Transportation Act,.
1920 (sees. 416, 422, 41 Stat. 484, 488). There is what this
Court has called a " dovetail relation" between the two
provisions. The authority granted by section 13 (4) is
thus to be considered in the light of the affirmative duty
of the Com-aission to fix rates and to take other important
steps to maintain an adequate national railway system.
As intrastate rates and the income from them.must play
a most important part in maintaining such a system, the
ffective operation of the Act requires that intrastate
traffic should pay "a fair proportionate share" of the
cost of maintenance. And if there is interference with the
accompishment of the purpose of the Congress because of
a disparity of intrastate rates as compared with interstate
rates, the Commission is authorized to .end the disparity
by directly removing it, RailroadCommission of Wisconsin v. Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Railroad Company,
supra; New York v. United States, supra (pp. 585, 586).
The question in the present cases, then, is not one of
authority, but of its appropriate exercise. The propriety
of the exertion of the authority must be tested by its relation to the purpose of the grant and with suitable regard
to the principle that whenever the federal power is exerted
within what would otherwise be the domain of state

212

'OCTOBER TERM, 1930..
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

power, -the justific~tion of the exercise of the federal
power must clearly appear., Illinois Central Railroad
Company v. State Public Utilities Commission, supra.
The Commission has no general authority to regulate
intrastate rates and the mere existence of a disparity between particular rates on intrastate and interstate traffic
does not warrant the Commission in prescribing intrastate
rates. Arkansas Railroad Commission v. Chicago, Rock
Island & Pacific Railway Company, supra. If the action
of the Commission is not simply for the removal of undue
prejudice against interstate commerce as between persons
or localities, and the Commission undertakes to prescribe
a statewide level of intrastate rates in order to avoid an
undue burden, from a revenue standpoint, upon the interstatte carrier, there should be appropriate findings upon
evidence to support an order directed to that end. Thus,
in RailroadCommission of Wisconsin v. Chicago,Burlington & Quincy RailroadCompany, supra (at p. 566) where
the question related to the general level of intrastate passenger fares, there were findings as to the effect of the
maintenance of the intrastate fares upon the revenues of
the carriers, warranting the ultimate finding of undue discrimination against interstate commerce as a vhole.
Similar facts were shown in New York v. United States,
supra (at p. 601). In the present instance, the Commission did not undertake to establish a statewide level of
rates for the interstate transportation of logs, and in order
to sustain the statewide order as to intrastate rates (as'one
needed to avoid an indue burden on the revenues of the
carrier and a consequent interference with the maintenance of an adequate transportation system) it must
appear that there are findings, supported by evidence, of
the essential facts as to the particular traffic and revenue,
and the effect of the intrastate rates, both as existing and
as prescribed, upon the income df the carrier, which would
justify that conclusion.

FLORIDA v. UNITED STATES.
194

Opinion of the Court.

In the paragraph, which w6 have quoted, containing
the ultimate finding of the Commission with respect to
the unjust discrimination caused by the existing intrastate
rates as between persons and localities, there is a coneluding clause that the intrastate rates result "in unjust
discrimination .against interstate commerce." This general. statement in the language of the statute, neither
standing alone nor taken in its context, could be regarded
as sufficient to support a statewide order from the standpoint of income, in the absence of supporting findings of
fact as to the revenue from the traffic in question.
In its report, the Commission stated that the Florida
Railroad Commission, and the interveners from that State,
had contended that the intrastate rates were remunerative
to the carrier. The State Commission introduced a cost
study to support its contention, and the carrier also submitted evidence as to the cost of transporting logs on its
line. The Interstate Commerce Commission said that
both cost studies were based on "arbitrary assumptions"
and that neither could be accepted "to show the approximate actual cost of transporting logs in single carloads
intrastate throughout Florida." The. Commission made
a comparison of "present interstate and intrastate rates
and the proposed interstate rates from north Florida in
cents per 100 pounds, and the earnings thereunder per car
of 50,000 pounds for distances to 170 miles." The "earnings" thus set forth were merely the amounts receivable
per car for. the given number of pounds under the rates
for the prescribed distances. The Commission also stated
that the carrier had shown, that the earnings finder the
Florida intrastate rates on logs were materially lower than
the earnings under the interstate rates from Florida to
Georgia on brick, ,sand, lime and cement. Comparing
the Florida intrastate rates on logs with other intrastate
rates and with interstate rates, thp Commission reached
the conclusion that the intrastate rates assailed were less
than reasonably compensatory.

214

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

But to justify the Commission in the alteration of in-

trastate rates, it was not enough for the Commission
merely to find that the existing iitrastate rates on the
particular traffic were not remunerative or reasonably
compensatory. The authority to determine the reasonableness per se of intrastate rates lay with the state
authorities and not with the Interstate Commerce Com-,
mission. In dealing with unjust discrimination as between persons and localities in relation to interstate commerce, the question is one of the relation of rates to each
other. In considering the authority of the Commission
to enter the state field and to change-a scale of intrastate
rates in the interest of the carrier's revenue, the question
is that of the relation of rates to income. The raising of
rates does not necessarily increase revenue. It may in
particular localities reduce revenue instead of increasing
it, by discouraging patronage.' Railroad Commission oj
Wisconsin v. Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Railroad
Company, supra. The Commission stated in its report
that witnesses for the Florida interveners had testified
"that any material increase in the Florida intrastat*e rates
would either cause them to move their plants to the
timber or abandon operations," and that in -either event
the carrier would lose considerable traffic.
The Commission made no findings as to the revenue
which had been derived by the carrier from the traffic
In the Florida Fertilizer Case, 151 I. C. C.602, the Interstate
Commerce Commission, in refusing to order an increase in the Florida
intrastate rates on fertilizer, said: "Furthermore, it is not certain
that if the Florida intrastate rates were increased to the interstate
level, additional revenue would accrue to the carriers, for if the
prophecies of the interior plants and of the Floiida commission are
justified, practically all shipments would be made from the ports with
the result that the total chrges-would probably be no greater than

they now are,"

FLORIDA v. UNITED STATES.
194

Opinion of the Court.

in question, or which could reasonably be expected under
the increased rates, or that the alteration of the intrastate
rates would produce; or wvas likely to produce, additional
income necessary to prevent an undue burden upon the
carrier's interstate revenues and to maintain an adequate
transportation service.
The question is not merely one of the absence of elaboration or of a suitably complete statement of the grounds
of the Commission's determination, to the importance of
which this Court has recently adverted.(The Beaumont,
Sour Lake &.Western Railway Company v. Uiited States,
ante, p. 74), but of the lack of the basic or essential findings required to support the Commission's order. In the
absence of such findings, we are not called upon to examine the evidence in order to resolve opposing contentions as to what it shows or to spell out and state such
conclusions of fact as it may permit. The Commission is
the fact-finding body and the Court examines the evidence
not to make findings for the Commission but to ascertain
whether its findings are properly supported. If the facts
as to intrastate transportation of logs in Florida are such
as to justify an order as to intrastate rdtes in order to end
an unjust discrimination as against interstate commerce
either as between persons and localities, or because of an
undue burden upon the revenues of the carrier, the Interstate Commerce Commission is still at liberty, acting
in accordance with the authority conferred by the statute,
to make such determinations as the situation may require.
We conclude that-the portion of the order of the Commission which is now under review, with respect to intrastate rates, is not supported by the findings of the Commission and this part of the order must be set aside.
Decrees reversed.

