OXFORD PAPER CO. v. THE NIDARHOLM.
675

681

Statement of the Case.

through excess of caution, has mistakenly stated the act
to be a -violatioii oTboth ยง 148 and ยง 29. See Williams v.
United States, 168 U. S. 382.
Affirmed.
OXFORZD PAPER COMPANY v. THE NIDARHOLM.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 58. Argued January 20, 1931.-Decided February 24, 1931.
1. The Court need not consider objections to the decree below raised
by a respondent who did not ask certiorari. P. 684.
2. Under a time charter party in the usual "government form,"
which .placed at the charterer's disposal "the whole reach of the
vessel's holds, decks and usual places of loading," and provided that
"charterers ... load, stow, and trim the cargo at their expense
under the supervision of the captain," the charterer is responsible,
at least to the extent of the one-half of the damage decreed below,
for a loss of cargo caused, a half hour after the departure of the
ship and while it was still in smooth waters, by the collapse of defective stanchions, which had been erected by the charterer for its
own convenience to facilitate stowing the deck load; and this,
whether or not the topheaviness of the vessel, caused by faulty stowage, was a contributory cause. Olsen v. United States Shipping
Co., 213 Fed. 18, distinguished. P. 684.
3. The owner's duty to the .charterer to provide a seaworthy and
cargo-worthy ship at the beginning of the voyage does not extend
to the furnishing of safe cribbing; the warranty applies only to
the ship and to such equipment as is called for by the charter
party. P. 685.
4. The master, under his duty of supervision of cargo stowage, is not

bound to prevent the charterer from stowing the deck load in such
manner as to expose it to dangers ordinarily incident to the transportation of deck loads and not peculiarly within his prevision.
P. 685.
34 F. (2d) 442, 36 F. (2d) 227, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 281 U. S. 712, to review a judgment which
reversed a judgment of the District Court, 26 F. (2d) 92,

682

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

in favor of the petitioner in an admiralty suit in rem to
recover damages for loss of part of a cargo.
Messrs. John W. Lowrance and Nathanr W. Thompson
for petitioner.
Mr. Robert E. Goodwin for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

Petitioner, charterer of the Steamship "Nidarholm,"
brought this admiralty suit in rem in the District Court
for Southern Maine, to recover damages for the loss of
part of a cargo of pulpwood from the deck of the vessel,
where it had been stowed by the charterer. The time
charter party, which was in the usual "government form,"
see GolcarS. S. Co. v. Tweedie Trading Co., 146 Fed. 563,
placed at the charterer's disposal "the whole reach of the
vessel's holds, decks and usual places of loading," and
provided that "charterers . . load, stow, and trim the
cargo at their expense under the supervision of the captain." .The question was whether, under these clauses
of the charter party, the ship was liable for the loss,
although one of its causes was the failuie of the charterer
to make the deck load secure. Judgment for the lihellant,
petitioner here, in the District Court, 26 F. (2d) 92, was
reversed by .the Court of Appeals for the First Circuit,
which divided the loss. 34 F. (2d) 442; rehearing denied,.
36 F. (2d) 227. This Court granted certiorari, 281 U. S.
712, on a petition which relied in part on an alleged conflict of the decision below with that of the Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit, in Olsen v. United States
Shipping Co., 213 Fed. 18.
The District Court found the facts as follows. The
Nidarhoim was chartered by petitioner for the purpose of
carrying pulpwood from its plant at Murray, Nova Scotia,
to Portland, Maine. In loading for the voyage in ques-

OXFORD PAPER CO. v. THE NIDARHOLM.
681

683

Opinion of'the Court.

tion, petitioner, after the hold was filled, piled the logs
of pulp wood, cut in two-foot lengths, on the deck to a
height of 17 feet. The deck load was secured by a crib,
which petitioner constructed by erecting, at intervals
along the rail, stanchions about 20 feet long and from 8
to 10 inches in diameter at the butt.* The stanchions
were held in position by wire rope lashings. When the
ship backed from the .dock, she had a list to starboard of
about 5 degrees; but as she proceeded on her -voyage,
the list shifted to the port side, and increased to between
10 and 14 degrees. Within a half hour of her departure,
and while she was still in smooth water, the stanchions
broke, first on the port side, then on th6 starboard; and
the deck load above the rails spilled into the sea. The
court concluded that faulty stowage of the deck load had
rendered the ship topheavy and unseaworthy, and held
that, since this was a breach of the duty to supervise
loading which the charter party had placed on the captain, the ship was responsible for the loss.
The Court of Appeals accepted the District Court's
finding that the ship was topheavy and unseaworthy
because of improper loading, and its conclusion that this
was a fault for which the master was responsible, but
stated that the question was whether tfe charterer was
also at fault. It pointed out that the cribbing was no
part of the equipment which the vessel was under an obligation to furnish; that the chaiterer had erected it and
chosen the material of which, it was constructed; and that
all the stanchions gave way at a time when the stress
caused by the list of the ship was less than that which
would be occasioned by the normal roll of the vessel at
sea. These findings are supported by evidence.
Whether the court considered the topheaviness of the
ship, caused by the fauilty stowage, and the defective
cribbing to be joint contributing causes of the loss, or
thought the latter the proximate cause, is not clear. But

684

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

it reached the conclusion, without referring to any supporting facts, that the construction of the cribbing was a
joint undertaking carried out by the charterer and the
vessel, for the failure of which both were at fault, and
decreed that the loss be divided.
As respondent did not ask certiorari, the only question
we shall consider is whether the court below was wrong
in denying the asserted liability of the ship for the entire
loss. Warner Co. v. Independent Pier Co., 278 U. S. 85,
91.
By the terms of the charter party there was an affirmative warranty of seaworthiness on the part of the vessel
which would otherwise have been implied. The Caledonia, 157 U. S. 124, 130, 131. This warranty extends to
unseaworthiness of the ship due to faulty stowage of cargo,
Corsarv. Spreckles, 141 Fed. 260, even though the charterer himself, subject to supervision of the captain, loads
the vessel, The Seguranca,250 Fed. 19. The charterer is
entitled to rely on the master, in the exercise of his expert
knowledge and judgment, to control the disposal of cargo
so as to avoid dangers to it from any consequent unseaworthiness of the vessel. Olsen v. United States Shipping
(o., supra; The Oakley C. Curtis, 4 F. (2d) 979;. certiorari denied, 267 U. S. 599; The Dana, 190 Fed. 650; ocf.
(orsar v. Spreckels, supra; The Thames, 61 Fed. 1014.
Respondent argues that the responsibility of the ship,
'when loaded by the charterer, is limited to faulty stowage
of cargo which endangers the ship, and that when the
cargo alone is imperilled, as is contended was the case
here, ensuing loss must be borne by the charterer. See
Elder & Dempster Co. v. Paterson,Zochonis & Co., (1924)A. 0. 522, 560-562; Reed & Co. v. Page, Son & East,
(1927) 1 K. B. 743, 754-756; cf. The Oakley . (Curtis,
smpra, p. 981.
, We are not aware of any case in which the rule thus
s*adly stated has been applied so as to relieve the ship

OXFORD PAPER CO. v. THE NIDARHOLM.
681

685

Opiion of the Court.

from liability for damage to cargo exposed,, by bad stowage, to sea perils peculiarly within the, specialized knowledge and experience of the master. But it is unnecessary to pass on the question here for, independently of it,
we think the ship cannot be held responsible for the loss
imposed on petitioner by the decree below.
Whether or not the topheaviness of the Nidarholm be
taken to have contributed to the loss, the collapse of the
stanchions was also a contributing cause; and for the latter petitioner is responsible at -least to the extent of the
one-half of the damage imposed on it below, unless there
was a duty on the ship to guard against the defective construction of the cribbing.
The owner's duty to provide a seaworthy and cargoworthy- ship at the beginning of the voyage did not extend to the defective cribbing. That warranty applies
only to the ship and such equipment as is called for by
the charter party. Cf. The Santona, 152 Fed. 516, 518.
The cribbing was an enlargement of the ship's structural
capacity for cargo beyond what she would otherwise
naturally and reasonably take, which the vessel was not
required to provide, and which was constructed by the
charterer for its own convenience, to facilitate its stowage of cargo. The ship owed no duty to furnish the
cribbing such as would relieve the charterer from the consequences of the failure to make it safe.
Even though the master's duty of supervision of cargo
9towage might, for some purposes and under other circumstances, be deemed to extend to the erection of this
structure as a means of stowing the deck load, still we
think there was no duty of ship or master to prevent the
charterer from loading the pulpwood in such manner as.
to expose it to dangers ordinarily incident to the transportation of a cargo on deck, and not peculiarly within
the prevision of the master. See Lawrence v. Minturn,
17 How. 100, 115. The charterer knew, as well as the

686

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

master, that the ship would heel or roll at sea, and that
the cribbing must be made sufficiently strong to hold the
cargo on deck. We see no more reason for imposing
responsibility on the ship for such an omission by the
charterer than for the master's failure to prevent the
charterer from stowing cargo in such manner that it is
damaged by heat, The Thomas P. Beal, 11 F. (2d) 49; or
in defective containers, The Oakley C. Curtis, supra,
p. 982; or in such contact with other cargo that it suffers
injury, cf. Elder & Dempster Co. v. Paterson,Zochonis
4 Co., supra. See also Lawrence v. Minturn, supra.
In the cases particularly relied upon by petitioner, the
sole cause of the loss appears to have been the unseaworthiness of the ship. See The Seguranca, and The
Dana, both supra. This was also the case with the part
of the deck load of logs in Olsen v. United States Shipping
Co., supra,jettisoned by the master to avoid danger to the
ship, which, due to the excessive deck load, had listed 24
degrees, although no heavy weather had been encountered.
Another part of the cargo of logs had been loaded by the
charterer on the forward deck. As the loading was not
completed until dark, the crew did not lash these logs, as
they had those on the after deck. This part of the cargo
spilled overboard when the master moved the ship without lashing the deck load. The court hdld the vessel
liable, saying that she " . . . .was unseaworthy' as to her
-forward deck load, a thing which it was the duty of the
master to prevent." But it did not appear that the charterer had assumed any duty of lashing the deck loads; and
it is evident that the moving of the vessel before the logs
were lashed, ready for the voyage, exposed them, by act of
the master, to a peril within his knowledge and control.
The case is thus distinguishable from the present, where
the erection of the defective stanchions was the charterer's
act, and where it does not appear that the defect was
known to the master.
Affirmed.

