OCTOBER TERM, 1930.,
Syllabus.

282 U. S.

to do business within a state. In those cases the judgment of this Court in no way'restricts the further exercise
of the legislative power of the state in any constitutional
manner. Here the Commission is ousted from the exercise of power which Congress has given it, and an order
is sanctioned authorizing an issue of securities which it
cannot be said the Commission has approved, and which
this Court does not purport to say is appropriate under
the statute.
MR. JUSTICE, HOLiEs and

Mr. JUSTICE

BRANDEIS concur

in this opinion.
GO-BART IMPORTING COMPANY ET'AI,. v. UNITED

STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURflT OF APPEALS FOR THE
'SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 111.

Argued November 25, 1930.-Decided January 5, 1031.

1. A warrant issued by a United States Commissioner, addressed
only to the Marshal and his deputies, and based upoxi, and reciting
the substance of, a complaint that was -verified merely on information and belief and that did not state an dffetse;--held invalid
on its face, and no authority to prohibition officers to make an
arrest. P. 355.
2. Acting under color of an invalid warrant of arrest, and falsely
claiming to have a search warrant, prohibition agents entered the
,office-of a company, placed under arrest two of its officeis, and
made a general search of the premises. They compelled by threats
-of force the opening of a desk and safe, and seized therefrom and
from other parts of the office, papers and records belonging to the
company and its officers. The officers of the company were arraigned before a United States Commissioner, and by him held on
bail further to answer the complaint (U. S. C., Title 18, § 591),
while the seized papers were held under the control of the United
States Kttorney in the care and custody of the prohibition agent
in charge. The company, and its two officers individually, before

GO-BART CO. v. UNITED 'STATES.
344

345

Syllabus.

an information or indictment had been returned against them,
applied to the District Court for an order to enjoin the use of the
seized papers as evidence and directing their return. On a rule
against the United States to show cause, the United States Attorney
appeared and opposed the motion and an affidavit of the agent in
charge was also filed in opposition. The applications were denied.
Held:
(1) In the proceedings before him, the Commissionek acted
merely as an officer of the District Court in a matter of which it
had authority to take control at any time. P. 353.
(2) Notwithstanding the order to show cause was addressed to
the United States alone, the proceeding was in substance and effect
against the United States Attorney and the prohibition agent in
charge, the latter being required by the Prohibition Act to report
violations of it to the-former and being authorized by the statute,
subject to the former's control, to conduct such prosecutions; and
both these officers were subject'to the proper exertion of the disciplinary powers of the court. P. 354.
(3) The District Court had jurisdiction summarily to determine
whether the evidence should be suppressed and the papers returned
to the petitioners. 'P. 355.
(4) The compan j being a stranger to the proceedings before
the Commissioner, the order of the District Court as -to it was
final and appealable. P. 356.
(5) There being no information or indictment against the officers
of the company when the application was made, and nothing to
show that any criminal proceeding would ever be instituted in that
court against them, it follows that the order was not made in or
dependent upon any ease or proceeding pending before the court,
and therefore the order is to them was appealable. Id.
(6) The Fourth Amendment forbids every search that is unreasonable, and is to be liberally construed. P. 356.
(7) Assuming that the facts of which the arresting officers had
been previously informed were sufficient to justify the arrests
without a warrant, nevertheless the uncontradicted evidence requires a finding that the search of the premises was unreasonable.
Marronv. United States, 275 U. S. '192, distinguished. P. 356.
(8) The District Court is directed to enjoin the United States
Attorney and the agent in charge from using the papers as evidence
and to order the same returned to petitioners. P. 358.
4 F. (2d) 593, reversed.

346

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Argument for Petitioners.

CERTIORARI,

282 U.S.

281 U. S. 719, to review a judgment of the

Circuit Court of Appeals which affirmed in part a judgment of the District Court denying applications for an
order to suppress and return evidence alleged to have
been illegally obtained.
Mr. Edward F. Colladay,with whom Messrs. Benjamin
B. Pettus and Joseph C. MeGarraghywere on the brief,
for petitioners.
The arrest of petitioners was illegal.
The warrant of arrest was, based upon an insufficient
complaint. Even assuming the warrant to have been
properly issued,' the arrest under it was nevertheless invalid because it was not executed by a United States
Marshal or one of his deputies.
No felony or misdemeanor had been committed or carried on in the presence of the officers. They had no
reasonable grounds for believing that a felony had, been
committed. Reasonable or probable cause does not exist
where the officer obtained his information solely from a
superior officer who in turn obtained it from the unsworn
statement of another. Probable cause which is insufficient as the basis for a warrant of arrest is insufficient to
justify an arrest without a warrant.
The search and'seizure vere unreasonable and violated
the Fourth and Fifth Amendments. A general explora-tory-search made without the authority of a search warrant is illegal. Boyd'v. United States, 116 U. S. 616;
Weeks v. United'StaSes, 232 U. S.383; Silverthorne Lumber Co. v. United States, 251 U. S.385; Gouled v. United
States, 255 U. S.298; Carroll v. United States, 267 U. S.
132.
In Marron v. United States, 275 17. S. 192, no general
search'was made. The documents seized were incidentaly
discovered.

GO-BART CO. v. UNITED STATES.
344

Argument for the Ujnited States.

The seizure of books and papers located on premises
where an arrest is made is illegal where the books and
papers are not the means or fruits of the crime, but are
merely private papers of the petitioners. Citing: United
States v. Kirschenblatt, 16 F. (2d) 202, 203; Kirvin v.
United States, 5 F. (2d) 285; United States v. Spallino,
21 F. (2d) 567; United States v. Epstein, 33 F. (2d) 982.
A search to secure evidence to be used against defendants in a criminal proceeding is within the constitutional
prohibition. An unlawful search and seizure may not be
justified by what is found.
The books and papers should be returned to petitioners
and the evidence obtained through the seizure should be
suppressed.
Solicitor General Thacher, with whom Assistant Attorneys General Youngquist and Sisson and Messrs. John J.
Byrne and Mahlon D. Kiefer, were on the brief, for the
United States.
The possession of an invalid arrest warrant does not
render illegal an arrest which may lawfully be'made without it. Stallings v. Splain, 253 U. S. 339; Marron v.
United States, 275 U. S. 192.
The arrests could lawfully be made without a warrant.
Ledwith v. Catchpole, Cald. Cas. 291, 294-295; Samuel
v. Payne, 1 Dougl. 359. See also remarks of Lord Tenterden in Beckwith v. Philby, 6 Barn.. & Cres. 635, 638; 1
Hale P. C. 587-588; 2 Hawk. P. C., 6th ed., 118-119; 4
Bl. Com. 293. Holley v. Mix, 3 Wend. 350; Burns v.
Erben, 40 N.-Y. 463, 466; Reuck v. McGregor,3 Vroom.
70, 74; Kurtz v. Moffitt, 115 U. S. 487; Brady v. United
States, 300 Fed. 540, certiorari denied, 266 IT. S. 620;
Wakely v. Hart, 6 Binney 316; Rohan v. Sawin, 5 Cush.
281, 284-285; Suell v. Derricott,161 Ala. 259, 273; Brish
v. Carter,98,Md. 445.

348

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U.S.

The arrests being lawful, the contemporaneous search
of the immediate premises under the control-of the persons arrested, and the seizure of the books and papers
here in controversy as things used to carry on the criminal enterprise, were likewise lawful. Carroll v. United
States, 267 U. S.' 132; Agnello v. United States, 269 U. S.
20; Marronv. United States, 275 U. S. 192.
To argue that the ledger in the Marron case was lawfully seized, but that the books and papers in this case
were not, is to assert that if the conspirators here had
confined the record of their transactions to one volume,
its seizure would be lawful,'but that because, owing to the
magnitude of their operations, their illegal dealings were
recorded in a liumber of books and papers, the latter were
immune from seizure.
MR. JusTicE BuTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.
In a criminal proceeding before a United States commissioner in the Southern District of New York in which
Gowen, Bartels and others are defendants, the petitioners
applied to the district court for an order enjoining the use
as evidence of books and papers alleged to have been
seized and taken from petitioners in violation of the'
Fourth and Fifth Amendments and directing their return.
The court made an order that the United States showcause why the relief prayed should not be granted. The
United States attorney appeared and opposed the motion,
and affidavits of W. J. Calhoun, special agent in charge of
special agents of the Bureau of Prohibition, and certain
of his subordinates were filed in opposition. The district
court denied the applications. The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed as to the United States attorney and held
that as to the-special agent in charge the order to show
cause should have been discharged. 40 F. (2d) 593.
Petitioners' applications to the district court, which are
in form affidavits, set forth the following:

GO-BART CO. v. UNITED STATES.
344

349

Opinion of the Court.

June 5, 1929, Calhoun went before the United States
commissioner and, in order to have a warrant issued for
the arrest of Gowen, Bartels and others, yerified and filed
a complaint. He alleged, upon information and belief,
that beginning January 1, 1929, and continuing down to
the filing of the complaint Gowen, Bartels and other defendants conspired in that district to commit, a nuisance
against the United States, that is to say, to possess, transport, sell and solicit and receive orders for intoxicating
liquor in violation of the National. Prohibition Act, and
that, in pursuance of the conspiracy and to effqct its
objects, one Heath purchased an automobile on May 23,
1929. See 27 U. S. C., §§ 33, 35. The complaint did not
specify any building, structure, location or place or set
forth any particulars or other overt act or show any connection between the purchase of the automobile and any
offense referred to in the complaint. On the same day
the commisioner issued a warrant in the usual form commanding the marshal of the district and his deputies to
apprehend the persons so accused and to bring them before the commissioner or some judge or justice of the
United States to be dealt with according to law.
On the next day Calhoun's subordinates, prohibition
agents O'Brien, Collins and Sipe, went to the petitioning
company's office at No. 200 Fifth Avenue. Bartels, the
secretary-treasurer of the company, was there when they
entered. O'Brien said he had a warrant to search the
premises and exhibited a paper which he falsely claimed
was such a Warrant. The agents arrested Bartels, searched
his person and took papers therefrom. While they were
there Gowen, the presidelit of the company, came to the
office. O'Brien told him that he had a warrant for his
arrest and a warrant to search the premises. The agents
arrested and searched Gowen and took papers from him.
They took his keys and by threat of force compelled him
to open. a desk and safe, searched and took papers from

350

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

them, searched other parts of the office and took thekefrom other papers, journals, account books, letter files,. insurance policies, cancelled, checks, index cards and other
things belonging respectively to Gowen, Bartels and the
company. For brevity these will be referred to herein as
"papers."
Gowen and Bartels were on the same day arraigned before the commissioner and held on bail further to answer
the complaint. A date was set for the examination, hearing has been postponed from time to time and no examination has been had. The paperis so seized were taken to the
office of Calhoun in the Sub-Treasury Building where
they were examined by him and the United States attorney and their subordinates, and such pap6ers have since
been kept and held there, as is later herein shown, under
the control of the United States attorney in the care and
custody of the special agent in charge, for use as evidence
against Gowen and Bartels.
Soon after the seizures were made each of the petitioners brought a suit in equity in the federal court for that
district against the special agent in charge and the United
States attorney, to enjoin them from using such papers
as evidence and to have them returned. The court dismissed these suits on the ground that the pi-oper remedy
was by motion in the criminal proceedings.
Then Gowen and Bartels, each in his own behalf, and.
the company, acting throdgh Bartels, made these applications. The court made its order that the United States
show cause why an injunction should not issue restraining it and its officers from using as evidence the papers
so seized and why an order should not issue directing
their return.
- In opposition, the affidavit of one Braidwood was submitted. It tends 'to show that in 1927 and 1928 petitioners and others acting together engaged in the unlawful
sale of intoxicating liquor, that at the company's office.

GO-BART CO. v. UNITED STATES.
344

Opinion of the Court.

they exhibited and took orders for intoxicating- liquor
some of which was delivered there and some elsewhere,
and that in April,. 1929, he reported these facts to Calhoun. Calhoun's affidavit states that Braidwood had so
reported and that by independent investigations he had
corroborated such statements and thus knew that a conspiracy unlawfully to sell intoxicating liquors in 1928 and
1929 had been entered into and overt acts in furtherance
thereof had been performed within-the district and that
he believed the petitioners had been parties to such conspiracy, that prior: to the day of the arrests he communicated such statements and belief to O'Brien and assigned
him to further investigate the case.
O'Brien's affidavit states: From the information given
him by Calhoun he believed petitioners and others had
so conspired. Calhoun described to him the company's
office in detail and the personal appearance of Gowen'and
Bartels. On June 6, 1929, he took a certified copy of the
complaint and warrant "for the, purpose of reference as
to the names of the various defendants" and went to petitioners' office. It-consisted of a suite of three rooms fitted
up with office.furniture including desks, filing cabinets
and a safe. He told Bartels and Gowen that he was an
under arrest.
officer of the United States and placed them
for such conspiracy. No warrant was "served" upon
either of them. The office was searched and there were
found and taken therefrom approximately a dozen'bcttles
of assorted intoxicating liquor, a large number -of memoranda, books of account, records, filing cases, and other
papers all of -which pertained to unlawful dealings by
Gowen and Bartels in intoxicating liquors.
O'Brien's affidavit also states that the papers so -seized
are of such quantiiy and bulk that it is impracticable to
attach'copies to. the affidavit, that such papers are "spe'cifically incorporated herein by reference and made a part
hereof and are further made available for inspection at

352

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

any time, if desired by the Court, in connection with the
consideration of this order to show cause."
In reply to O'Brien's affidavit petitioners submitted
affidavits of Gowen, Bartels and other defendants who
were arrested at the company's office on that occasion and
affidavits of other persons who were present during some
part of the time that the prohibition agents were there.
These affidavits show that O'Brien said he had a warrant
of arrest and produced a paper which several of these
affiants say they read and believe to be the warrant issued
by the commissioner, a copy bf which was filed with the
moving papers. As to these details there is no conflict in
the evidence.
The district court refused to sustain the contention that
no use was made of the warrant and accepted the statements that O'Brien claimed to have warrants for the
arrests and searches. The Circuit Court of Appeals did
not definitely express opinion as to that matter. We have
examined the evidence. It iequires a finding that O'Brien
did so claim, that he had the warrant issued by the commissioner or a copy of it and that when he arrested Gowen
and Bartels he claimed and purported to act under the
warrant. No warrant for the search of the premises was
issued.
The orders dismissing petitioners' suits in equity are
not before us. The question whether the district court
had jurisdiction summarilyto deal with petitioners' applications, while not brought forward by the parties, arises
upon the record, was considered by the Circuit Court of
Appeals and suggested-during the argument here.
United States commissioners are inferior officers.'
United States v. Allred, 155 U. S. 591, 594. Rice v. Ames,
.1 As to the office of United States commissioner see: § 4, Act ofMarch 2, 1793, 1 Stat. 334; § 1, Act of February 20, 1812, 2 Stat.
679; Act of March 1, 1817, 3 Stat. 350;. §§1, 2; Act of August 23,
1842, 5 Stat. 516; R. S., § 627; §§ 19, 20 and 21, Act of May'28,
1896, 29 Stat. 184. United States v. Maresca,266 Fed. 713, 719.

GO-BART CO. v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

344

180 U. S. 371, 377, 378. Cf. Ex parte Hennen, 13 Pet.
230, 257, et seq. The Act of May 28, 1896, 29 Stat. 184,
abolished commissioners of the circuit courts, authorized
each district court to appoint United States commissioners, gave to them the same powers and duties that commissioners of the circuit courts had, required such appointments to be entered of record in the district courts,
provided that the commissioners should hold their office
subject to removal by the court appointing them (28
U. S. C., § 526) and required them to keep records of proceedings before them in criminal cases and deliver the
same to the clerks of the courts on the commissioners'
ceasing to hold office. Id., § 529. They are authorized
by statute iii respect of numerous matters 2 and the relations between them and the district courts vary as do
their official acts. Cf. United States v. Allred, ubi supra.
Grinv. Shine, 187 U. S. 181, 187. Todd v. United States,
158 U. S. 278, 282. Collins v. Miller, 252 U. S. 364, 369.
United States v. Berry, 4 Fed. 779. Ex parte Perkins, 29
Fed. 900. The Mary, 233 Fed. 121.
We need not consider what power the district court may
exert over the commissioners dealing with matters unlike
2

The powers and duties of United States commissioners include:
To arrest and imprison, or bail, for trial (18 U. S. C., § 591; see
also §§ 593-597) and in certain cases to take recognizances from
witnesses, on preliminary hearings (28 U. S. C., § 657); to issue
warrants for and examine persons charged with being fugitives from
justice (18 U. S. C., § 651); to hold to security of the peace and for
good behavior (28 U. S. C., § 392); to issue search warrants (18
U. S. C., §§ 611-627; 26 U. S. C., § 1195); to take bail and affidavits
in civil causes (28 U. S. C., § 758); to discharge poor ;onvicts imprisoned for non-payment of fines (18 U. S. C., § 641); to institute
prosecutions under laws relating to the elective franchise and civil
rights and to appoint persons to execute warrants thereunder (8
U. S. C., §§ 49, 50); to enforce arbitration awards of foreign consuls
in disputes between captains and crews of foreign vessels (28 U. S. C.,
§ 393); to summon master of ship to show cause why process should
not issue against it for seaman's wages (46 U. S. C., § '603); to take
oaths and acknowledgments. 5 U. S. C., § 92.' 28 U. S. C., § 525.
22110°-31--23

OCTOBER TERM 1930.
OpiniW.of the Court.

282 U. S.

that now before us. Here the commissioner acted under
R.'S., § 1014, which provides that for any erime or offense
against the United States, the offender may by any justice
or judge of the United States or by:any commissioner of
the circuit court to take bail (now United States commissioner) be arrested and imprisoned, or bailed, as the base
may be, for trial before such court of the United States
as by law has cognizance of the offense. 18' U. S. C.'
§ 591. All the commissioner's acts and the things done
by the prohibition officers in respect of this matter were
preparatory and preliminary to a consideration of the
charge by a grand jury and, if an indictment should be
found, the final disposition of the case in the district court.
The commissioner acted not as a court, or as a judge of
any court, but as a mere officer of the district court-in proceedings of which that court had authority to take control
at any time. Todd v. United States, ubi supra. (Jollings
v. Miller, ubi supra. 'United States v. Berry, suprd.
United States v. Casino, 286 Fed: 976, 979.
Notwithstanding the order to show cause was addressed
to the United States alone, this is in substance and effect
a proceeding against the United States attorney andqthe
speci l agent in charge. The special' agent in charge was
the prosecuting witness. It was his duty under the
statute to report violations to the United States attorney.
Donnelleyv. United.States, 276 U'1S. 505. And he was
authorized, subject to the control of the United States
attorney, to "conduct the prosecution at the committing
trial for the purpose of having the offenders held for the
action of a grand jury," 27 U.S. C., § 11. It is immaterial
whether he intended or was personally to conduct the
prosecution before the commissioner. As the Unied
States attorney had control of the prosecution 'before the
commissioner, whether conducted by his assistants or prohibition agents, the papers were held subject to his control
and direction although in the immediate care and custody

GO-BART CO. v. UNITED STATES
344

Opinion of the Court.

of the prohibition officers. He and they voluntarily came
before the court to defend the seizure, the retention and
proposed use of the papers and so in effect became parties
to the proceeding. By making the papers a part of
O'Brien's affidavit they brought the papers within the
power of the court and constructively into its possession,
if indeed the papers had not already come within its
reach. In so far as it purports to run against the United
States, the form of the order may be treated as a mere
irregularity.
The United States attorney and the special agent in
charge, as officers authorized to conduct such prosecution
and having ,control and custody of the papers for that
purpose, are, in respect of the acts relating to such prosecution, alike subject to the proper exertion of the disciplinary powers of the court. And on the facts here
shown it is plain that the district court had jurisdiction
summarily to determine whether the evidence should be
suppressed and the papers returned to the petitioners.
Weeks v. United States, 232 U. S.. 383, 398. Wise v.
Henkel, 220 U. S. 556,.558. "SilverthorneLumber Co. v.
United States, 251 U. S. 385, 390. Cogen v. United States
278 U. S. 221, 225. United States v. Mills, 185 Fed. 318.
United States v. McHie, 194 Fed. 894, 898. United States
v. Lydecker, 275 Fed. 976, 980. United States v. Kraus,
270 Fed. 578, 580. Cf. Applybe v. United States, 32 F.
(2d) 873, 874.
The Government concedes that the warrant did not
authorize O'Brien or other prohibition agents to make the
arrests. The complaint, which in substance is recited in
the warrant, was verified,merely on information and belief
and does not state facts sufficient to constitute an offense.
Ex parteBurford, 3 Cranch 448, 453. Rice v. Ames, supra,
374. Byars v. United States, 273 U. S. 28. United States
v. Cruikshank, 92 U. S. 542, 558. United States v. Hess,
124 U. S. 483. United States v. Ruroede, 220 Fed. 210,

356

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion .of the Court.

282 U. S.

2i2, 213. The warrant was improvidently issued and invalid on its face. It does not-purport to authorize anyone
other 'than the marshal and his deputies.
The company is not inentioned in the complaint or warrant and is a stranger to the proceeding before the commissioner. Unquestionably the order of the district court
as to it was final and appealable. Cogenr v. United States,
ubi "supra. Ex parte Tiffany, 252 U. S. 32. Savannah v.
Jesup, 106 U. S. 563. GumbeZ v. Pitkin, 113 U. S. 545;
When the application was made, no information Or indictment had been found ,or returned against Gowen or
Bartels. There was nothing to show that any criminal
proceeding would ever be instituted in that court against
them-. Post v. United States, 161 U. S. 583, 587. And; as
above shown, the complaint does not state an offense. It
follows that the order of the district court was not made
in or dependent upon any case or proceeding there pending and therefore the order as to them was appealable.
Cogen v. United States, ubi supra. Perlman v. United
States, 247 U. S. 7, 13. Burdeau v. McDowell, 256 U. S.
465.
Without pausing to consider the matter, we assume, as
held by the lower courts, that the facts of which Calhoun
and O'Brien. had been informed prior to the arrests are
sufficient to, justify the apprehension without a warrant
of Gowen and Bartels for the conspiracy referred to in
Braidwood's affidavit and on that basis we treat the
arrests as lawful and valid.
No question is here raised as to the search of the persons. There remains for consideration the question
whether the search of the premises, the seizure of the
papers therefrom and their retention for use as evidence
may be sustained. The first clause of the Fourth
A gefidment declares: "The right of the people to be se-

GO-BART CO. v. UNITED STATES.
344

Opinion of the Cour,

cure in their persons, houses, papers, and effects, against
unreasonable searches and seizures shall not be violated."
It is general and forbids every search that is unreasonable; it protects all, those suspected or known to be offenders as well as the innocent, and unquestionably
extends to the premises where the search was made and
the papers taken. Gouled v. United States 255 U. S.298,
307. The second clause declares: "and no Warrants shall
issue, but upon probable cause, supported by*Oath or
affirmation, and particularly describing the place to be
searched, and the persons or things to be seized." This
prevents the issue of warrants on loose, vague or doubtful bases of,fact. It emphasizes the purpose to protect
against all general searches. Since before the creation
of our government, such searches have been deemed obnoxious to fundamental principles of liberty. They are
denounced in the constitutions or statutes of every State
in the Union. Agnello v. United States, 269 U. S.20, 33.
The need of protection against them is attested alike by
history and present conditions. The Amendment is to
be liberally construed and all owe the duty of vigilance
for its effective enforcement lest there shall be impairment of the rights for the protection of which it was
adopted. Boyd v. United States, 116 U. S. 616, 623.
Weeks v. United States, supra, 389-92.
There is no formula for the determination of reasonableness. Each case is to be decided on its own facts and
circumstances. It is not, and could not be, claimed that
the officers saw conspiracy being committed. And there
is no suggestion that Gowen or Bartels was committing
crime when arrested. In April, 1929, Braidwood reported
to Calhoun the existence of a conspiracy and that in pursuance of it sales and deliveries of intoxicating liquor had
been made in 1927 and 1928. The record does not show

358

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

any criminal overt act in 1929. Calhoun's description to
O'Brien of the company's office in detail and of Gowen
and Bartels shows that he knew the place and offenders.
Notwithstanding he had an abundance of information and
time to swear out a valid warrant, he failed to do so.
O'Brien falsely claimed to have a warrant 'or the search
of the premises and he made the arrests under color of
the invalid warrant. *Bypretension of right and threat of
force he compelled Gowen to open the desk and the safe
and-with the others made a general and apparently unlimited search, ransacking the desk, safe, filing cases and
other parts of the office. It was a lawless invasion of the
premises and a general exploratory search. in the hope
that evidence of crime might be found. Federal Trade
Commission v. American Tobacco Co., 264 U. S. 298, 306.
Plainly the case before us is essentially different from
-Marron v. United States, 275'U. S. 192. There, officers
executing a valid search warrant for intoxicating liquort
found and arrested one Birdsall who in pursuance of a
-conspiracy was actually engaged in running a saloon. As
an incident to the arrest they seized a, ledger in a closet
* where the, liquor or some of it was kept and some bills
beside the cash register. These things were visible and
'accessible and in the offender's immediate custody. There
*was no threat of force or general search or rummaging of
the place.
The uncontradicted evidence requires a finding that
here .the search of the premises was unreasonable. Silverthorne Lumber Co. v. United States, supra. Marron v.
United States, supra, 199. United States v. Kirschenblatt, 16 F. (2d) 202. The judgments below must be
reversed and the case remanded to the district court with
directions to enjoin the United States attorney and the
special agent in charge from using the papers as evidence
nd tW order the same returned to petitioners.
Reversed.

