CROOKS v. HARRELSON.
44

.

Syllabus.

United States, 234'U. S. 600, United States v. American
oil Co., 262 U. S. 371, Binderup v. Pathe Exchange, 263
U. S. 291, and Anderson v. Shipowners Assn., 272 U. S.
359, will suffice, we think, to show the challenged arrangement conflicts with the Sherman Act.
The court below erred in reaching a different conclusion and its decree must be reversed. The cause will be
remanded for further proceedings in conformity with this

opinion.
Reversed.
CROOKS, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE,
v. HARRELSON ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO

E CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 24. Argued October 31, 1930.-Decided November 24, 1930.
1. Section 402 of the Revenue Act of 1918 provides that the value of
the gross estate of a decedent shall be determined by including
the value at the time of his death of all propprty "(a) To the
extent of the interest therein of the decedent at the time of his
death which after his death is subject to the payment of the
charges against his estate and the expenses of its administration
and is subject to distribution as part of his estate." Held that the
requirements that a property interest, to be included, shall be subject to the payment of the charges against the estate and the expenses of administration must be taken, as they are expressed, in
the conjunctive; that charges against the estate and expenses of
administration are different and distinct things, and that when, by
the state law, an interest in real estate, though subject to the
former, is not subject to the latter, it forms no part of the gross
estate for the purpose of the federal estate tax. United States v.
Field, 255 U. S. 257. P. 58.
2. To-justify departure from the letter of an Act of Congress as
leading to absurd results, the absurdity must be so gross as to
shock the general moral or common sense; there must be something to make plain the in'tent of Congress that the letter shall

56

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U.S.

not prevail; it is not enough merely that hard and objectionable
or absurd consequences, which probably were not in the contemplation of the framers, are produced by the act of legislation.

P. 59.
3. Unless the Constitution be violated, Congress 'may select the
subjects of taxation and qualify them differently as it sees fit; 'and
if it does so in plain terms it is not within the province of the
Court to modify the law by construction. P. 61.
4. The general rule requiring adherence to the letter applie with
peculiar strictness to a taxing act. Id.
5. In Missouri the real estate of a decedent cannot be sold to pay
expenses of administration, nor can its proceeds, when sold to pay
debts and legacies for which the personal estate is insufficient,

be used to pay expenses of administration. Id.
35 F. (2d) 416, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 281 U. S. 706, to a judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals affirming a judgment, 28 F. (2d) 510,
recovered by the present respondents in an action against
the CollectorI for money exacted as a part of an estate tax.
Mr. Claude R. Branch, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, with whom Solicitor General Thacher,
Assistant Attorney General Youngquist, Mr. Sewall Key
and Miss Helen R. Carloss, Special Assistants to the Attorney General, Messrs. Clarence M. Charest, General
Counsel, and William T. Sabine, Jr., Special Attorney, Bureau of Internal Revenue, and Mr. Erwin N. GHswold,
were on the brief, for petitioner.
Messrs. Frank S. Bright and S. L. Swarts, with whom
Messrs. Massey Holmes, L. C. Connally, and H. Stanley
Hinrichswere on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JU.STICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Benjamin H. Harrelson, a resident -of Missouri, died
testate in 1920, leaving within'the State property and
assets which included real property valued at over
$269,000. The Commissioner of Internal Revenue, upon

CROOKS v. HARRELSON.
55

Opinion of the Court.

a final audit and review of the federal estate tax return
of the executors made under the Revenue Act of 1918,
included the real property as a part of the gross estate
for the purpose of computing the tax. The executors paid
$37,762.20, the amount attributable to the value of the
real property, and subsequently claimed a refund thereof
on the ground that the value of the decedent's real property having its situs in Missouri was not, under the law
of that State and the terms of the federal statute, properly subject to an estate tax, and the amount was, therefore, illegally assessed and collected. The estate having
been closed and distributed and the executors discharged,
plaintiffs (respondents here), as sole beneficiaries and distributees, brought this action in a federal district court
against the defendant (petitioner here) to recover the
amount so paid and claimed, together with interest. Defendant demurred to the complaint on the ground that
the facts stated were not sufficient to constitute a cause
of action. The district court overruled the demurrer and,
defendant having declined to plead further, rendered judgment against him for the sum claimed, with interest and
costs. 28 F. (2d). 510. Upon appeal the circuit court of
appeals affirmed the judgment. 35 F.- (2d) 416.
A correct determination of the question presented requires consideration of the provisions of 1§402 of the Revenue Act of 1918, c. 18, 40 Stat. 1057, 1097-8, the relevant
portion of which follows:
"Sec. 402. That the value of the gross estate of the
decedent shall be determined by including the value at
the time of his death of all property, real or personal,
tangible or intangible, wherever situated"(a) To the extent of the interest therein of the decedent at the time of his death which after his death is
subject to the payment of the-charges against his estate
and the expenses of its administration and is subject to
distribution as part of his estate;"

58

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U.S

The court below held-(1)° that by the express provisions of the foregoing section, the value of the interest of
a decedent in any property at the time of his death may
not be included in the gross estate for the purpose of the
tax unless there be a concurrence of the requirements
there set forth, namely, (a) that the- interest of the, decedent be subject to the payment of the charges- against
his estate, (b) that such interest be subject to the expenses
of administration, and (c) that such interest. be subject
to distribution as part of his estate; and (2) that by the
law of Missouri such interest in real property is not subject to the expenses of administration, and, therefore, the
requirement in that respect is notmet. Both propositions.
are controverted by the petitioner. ,
First. The meaning of the provision in question, considered by itself, does not seem to us to be doubtful.
The value- of the interestof the decedent is not to be included unless it "is subject to the payment of the charges
against his estate and the expenses of its administration "--not one or the other, but both.' We find nothing
in the context or in other provisions of the statute which
warrants the conclusion that the word "and" was used
otherwise than in its ordinary sense; and to construe the
clause as though, it said,:" to the payment of charges and
expenses, or either of them," as petitioner seems to contend, would be to add a material element to the requirement, and thereby to create, not to expound, -a provision
of law. Nor will it do to say that the words, "charges
against his estate," include expenses of administration, for
plainly they are different and distinct things, generally so
classified in the settlement of estates of decedents, and
so regarded by Congress, as evidenced by the discriminating terms of the statute.
A similar question was presented to this court and decided in United States v. Field, 255 U. S. 257. It was
there held that the interest of the decedent, Mrs. Field,

CROOKS v. HARRELSON.
55

Opinion of the Court.

was 'ndt taxable under § 202 (a) of the Revenue Act of
1916, regnacted as clause (a) of § 402 now under review,
because it was not her property at the time of her death,
nor subject to distribution as part of her estate. The
court said (p. 262):
"The conditions expressed in clause (a) are to the effect
that the taxable estate must be (1) an interest of the
decedent at the time of his death, (2) which after his.
death is subject to the payment of the. charges against
his estate and the expenses of its administration, and
.(3) is subject to distribution as part of his estate. These
conditions are expressed conjunctively; and it would be
inadmissible, in construing a taxing act, to read them as
if prescribed disjunctively. Hence, unless the appointed
interest fulfilled all three conditions, it was not taxable
under this clause."
It is to be observed that the court, by combining under
one head the provision in respect of charges against the
estate and that in respect of expenses of administration,
treated clause (a) as containing three conditions instead
of four; but this does not alter the fact that, whether
stated separately or in combination, the second condition
.contains two distinct requirements, expressed conjinctively, and may not be read as though stated disjunctively. It seems clear enough that the Fied case is decisive of the question and requires us to hold that if the
value of the interest of the decedent now being considered
is not subject, under the law of Missouri, to the expenses
of administration, it forms no part of' the gross estate for
the purpose of the federal estate tax.
It is urged, however, that if the literal meaning of the
statute be as indicated above, that meaning should be rejected as leading to absurd results, and a construction
adopted in harmony with what is thought to be the spirit
and purpose of the act in order to give effect to the intent
of Congress. The principle sought to be applied is that

OCTOBER TERM. 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U.S.

followed by this court in Holy Trinity Church v. United
States, 143 U. S. 457; but a consideration of what is there
said will- disclose that the principle is to be applied to
override the literal terms of a statute only under rare
and exceptional circumstances. The illustrative cases
cited in the opinion denionstrate that to justify a departure from the letter of- the law ulon that ground, the
absurdity must be so gross as to shock the general moral
or common sense. Compare Pirie v. Chicago Title and
Trust Company, 182 U. S. 438, 451-452. And there must
be something to make plain he intent of Congress that
the letter of the statute is hot to prevail. Treat v. White,
181 U. S. 264, 268.
Courts have sometimes exercised a high degree of ingenuity in the eff.ort to find jastification for wrenching
from the words of a statute a meaning which literally they
did not bear in order to escape consequences thought to
be absurd or to entail great hardship. But an application of the principle so nearly approaches the boundary
between the exercise of the judicial power and that of
the legislative power as to call rather for great caution
and. circumspection in order to avoid usurpation of the
latter. Monson v. Chester, 22 Pick. 385, 387. It is not
enough merely that hard and objectionable or absurd
consequences, which probably were not within the con.templation of the framers, are produced by an act of
legislation. Laws enacted with good intention, when put
to the test, frequently, and to the surprise of the law
maker himself, turih out to be mischievous, absurd or
otherwise objectionable. But in such case the remedy lies
with the law making authority, and not with.the courts.
See In re Alma Spinning Company, L. R. 16 Ch. Div. 681,
686; King v. Commissioners, 5 A. & E. 804, 816; Abley v.
Dale, L. J. (1851) N. S. Pt. 2, Vol. 20, 233, 235. And see
generally Chung Fook v. White, 264 U. S. 443, 445;
Commr. of Immigrationv. Gottlieb, 265 U. S. 310,313.

CROOKS v. HARRELSON.
55

Opinion of the Court.

In support of the clain that a literal construction is
not admissible, it is said that by other provisions of § 402
certain interests in real property, such as dower, etc., are
made subject to the tax without regard to the conditions
set forth in subdivision (a), and that this results in an
incongruity amounting to an absurdity. But unless the
Constitution be violated, Congress may select the subjects of taxation and qualify them differently as it sees
fit; and if it does so in plain terms, as it has done here,
it is not within the province of the court to modify the
law by construction. In any event, conceding that the
conditions assailed have produced the incongruous results
complained of, they fall far short of that degree of absurdity contemplated by the Holy Trinity Church case,
or by any other decision of this court.
Finally, the fact must not be overlooked that we are
here concerned with a taxing act, with regard to which
the general rule requiring adherence to the letter applies
with peculiar strictness. In 'United States v. Merriam,
263 U. S. 179, 187-188, after saying that "in statutes
levying taxes the literal meaning of the words employed
is most important, for such statutes are not to be extended by implication beyond the lear imp'ort of the
language used," we quoted with "approval the words of
Lord Cairns in Partington v. Attorney-General, L. R. 4
H. L. 100, 122, that "if the Crown, seeking to recover the
tax, cannot bring the subject within the letter of the law,
the subject is free, however apparently within the spirit
of the law the case might otherwise appear to be. In
other words, if there be admissible in any statute, what
is called an equitable construction, certainly such a construction is not admissible in a taxing statute, where you
can simply adhere to the words of t1ie statute."
Second. It is conceded by the petitioner, as it must
be, that at common law real estate cannot be sold to pay
expenses of administration, and that this rule of the common law is in effect in Missouri unless modified by statute.

62

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U.S.

It is further conceded that there is no statute which permits real estate to be sold merely to pay such expenses.
One contention, however, is that an executor or administrator may be authorized by the proper court to sell
real estate to pay debts and legacies if the personal estate
is insufficient; and -that upon such sale the executor or
administrator is entitled to a commission on the proceeds'
of the sale, which takes priority over the payment of
debts against the estate. As to this it is sufficient- to say,
as the court below said, that this commission is not an expense of administration, but -an expense incidental to the
sale of the lands. The Missouri Court of Appeals, in
Elstroth v. Young, 94 Mo. App. 351, 355-356, held that,
the proceeds of the sale of lands so made could not
be used to make good deficiencies in the expenses of
administration.
The further contention that if the personal estate has
been consumed by administration expenses and real estate
is sold to pay debts and legacies, as a practical matter,
real estate has been .sold because of administration expenses, we put aside as inconsequential. In the case
supposed it is perfectly evident that the real estate has
been sold not to pay administration expenses, but to pay
debts and legacies, and that fact is in no wise altered because the sale was necessitated by the consumption of the
personalty for such expenses. The cause of the sale must
not be confused with its purpose.
Nothing would be gained by a review of the numerous
decisions of -the Missouri courts. They are set forth and
fully and well considered by the court below, and we
entirely agree with that court's conclusion that these
decisions establish "that real estate of a decedent in that
state cannot be sold for the payment of expenses of
administration, nor can the proceeds of land sold to pay
debts be lawfully used to pay expenses of administration."

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. COLTS.
55

Statement of the Case.

We have not failed to note the decision of the Court of
Claims in Steedmam v. United States, 63 C. Cls. 226, as
well as the decision of the Board of Tax Appeals in ,Bartlett v. Commissioner, 16 B. T. A. 811, 816, but in so far
as they conflict with the foregoing conclusions, they are
disapproved.
Judgment affirmed.
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. COLTS.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

1o. 96. Argued October 23, 1930.-Decided November 24, 1930.
1. Article III, § 2, cl. 3, of the Constitution, which provides that
"The trial of all crimes, except in cases of impeachment, shall, be
by jury," must be interpreted in the light of the common law, according to which petty offenses might be proceeded against summarily before a magistrate sitting without a jury. P. 72.
2. It is settled that there may be many offenses called "petty offenses" which do not rise to the degree of "crimes" within the
meaning of Article III, and in respect of which Congress may dispense with a jury trial. Id.
3. Whether a given offense is to be classed as a crime, so as to
require a jury trial, or as a petty offense, triable summarily without a jury, depends primarily upon the nature of the offense.
P. 73.
4. Driving at a forbidden rate of speed and so recklessly "as to
endanger property and individuals," in violation of the District of"
Columbia Traffic Act, is an offense which is maum in se and of a
serious character, amounting to a public nuisance indictable at
common law, and is a "crime " within the constitutional guarantee
of trial by jury. Art. III, § 2, cl.
3. Id.
38 F. (2d) 535, affirmed.

U. S.716, to review a judgment of the
Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia, reversing
a judgment of the Police Court, which had denied to the
CERTmORAR, 281

