CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
BEIDLER

:T AL.,

EXECUTORS, v. SOUTH CARO-

LINA TAX COMMISSION.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.

No. 2.

Argued October 22, 1928. Reargued October 23, 24, 1930.Decided November 24, 1Q30.

1. A resident of Illinois died in that State owning a majority of the
shares of a South Carolina corporation and also debts owed him by
the corporation on unsecured open account partly for advances
made by him to the corporation and partly for dividends previously declared on his shares. South Carolina, besides taxing the
transfer of the shares, undertook to tax the transfer of the indebtedness, claiming this jurisdiction because of the local domicile
of the debtor corporation and upon the ground that the indebtedness had acquired a "business situs" in South Carolina. Held
that the South Carolina tax on the transfer of the indebtedness was
void under the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Pp. 7 et seq.
2. It is now established that the mere fact that the debtor is domiciled within the State gives it no jurisdiction to impose an inheritance or succession tax upon the transfer of the debt from a
decedent who is domiciled in another State. P. 7.
3. Open accounts fall within this principle. P. 8.
4. A conclusion that debts have acquired a situs for taxation other
than at the domicile of their owner must have evidence to support
22110'-31-1

1

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Argument for Plaintiffs -inError.

282 U.S.

it, and it is the province of the Court to inquire whether there is
such evidence when the inquiry is essential to the enforcement of a
right suitably asserted under the Federal Constitution. P. 8.
5. The evidence in this case affords no adequate basis for a finding
that the indebtedness had a business situs in South Carolina. It
proves the existence of the debts and the facts that the decedent
creditor was largely interested in the affairs of the corporation; bit
it shows nothing which derogates from the existence of the corporation as such, transacting its business as such, with corresponding
rights and liabilities. P. 9.
6. The interests of a corporation in its property and of a shareholder of the corporation in his shares are distinct property
interests. Id.
Reversed.

EROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of South
Carolina, which sustained on appeal a transfer tax levied
by the South Carolina Tax Commission on the transfer of
credits belonging to a decedent's estate. The plaintiffs in
error were the executors of the will.
Mr. P. F. Henderson, with whom Mr. Arthur B.
Schaffner was on the brief, for plaintiffs in error.
The Supreme Court of South Carolina relied implicitly
upon Blackstone v. Miller, 188 U. S.189. But, since.the
date of the decision below, this Court, in a series of notable
cases, has overruled Blackstone v. Miller, and established a
new general rule. Blodgett v. Silberman, 277 U. S. 1;
Farmers Loan & Trust Co. v. Minnesota, 280 U. S.204;
Baldwin v. Missouri,281 U. S.586.
Under the rule of Blackstone v. Miller, double inheritance taxation updn an intangible was possible in certain
circumstances. Under the new rule, but one inheritance
tax may be levied upon an intangible, and that only at
the domicile of its ownerWe have here a mere open book account-the plainest
type of intangible. There is not even a note, or a bond, or
a security deed or mortgage, which might be kept in a
third State to complicate the matter. Mr. Beidler kept

BEIDLER v. SO. CAR. TAX COMMISSION.

3

Argument for Plamtiffs in Error.

a complete set of books in Chicago, which alone were the
controlling evidence of the debt.
The only taxable situs of the debt was in Illinois, in
which State, the record shows, a large inheritance tax was
levied and paid. To allow South Carolina now to levy a
tax would be to visit another tax ,upon the same transfer,
which, as we understand it, is contrary to the new rule.
It may be that intangibles may acquire a business situs
justifying taxation away from the domicile of their owner.
See Cooley on Taxation (4th ed.) ยง 466; Adamsv. Colonial
Mortgage Co., 82 Miss. 263; Reat v. People, 201 Ill. 469;
Jamison v. Commonwealth, 120 Va. 137; Liverpool &
L. & G. Ins. Co. v. Board of Assessors, 221 U. S. 346, New
Orleansv. Stempel, 175 U. S. 309. But here there can be
no such pretense. No business of lending existed. Mr.
Beidler owned a controlling interest in the corporation
and advanced it money from time to time, which it repaid
in part from time to time. At most, there was a series of
separate credits,-not a business. Liverpool & L. & G.
Ins. Co. v. Board of Assessors, 221 U. S.'346.
Further, it is a fact that these advances had practically
ceased in 1920, more than three years before Beidler's
death. If lending to a single debtor, and that one a company which he controlled, could in any event constitute
the doing of business by him in South Carolina, that
business had ceased long before his death.
The debt was really a liability of the company (to be
deducted in considering the value of its stock) and not an
asset; but if, a- the court below seemed to think, the fact
that Beidler's money was allowed to remain with the company increased the company's efficiency, and hence the
value of Beidler's stock in some indefinite and unascertained manner and amount, then this fact would be reflected in the value of the stock in his hands when he
'died, and in the property tax assessed by South Carolina
against the company.

4

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

282 U.S.

Mr. J. Fraser Lyon, with whom Mr. John M. Daniel,
Attorney General of South Carolina, was on the brief, for
defendant in error.
The defendant in error resubmits for consideration the
brief used on the first argument and asks the Court to
reaffirm the rule laid down in Blackstone v. Miller, 188
U. S. 189, for the reasons found in the dissenting opinions
in Baldwin v. Missouri, 281 U. S. 586. See also, Liverpool & L. & G. Ins. Co. v. Board of Assessors, 221 U. S.
346; Maguire v. Trefry, 253 U. S. 12; Maxwell v. Bugbee,
250 U. S. 525; Bullen v. Wisconsin, 240 U. S. 625; MetropolitanL. Ins. Co. v. New Orleans, 205 U. S. 395; Baker v.
Baken-Eccles Co., 242 U. S. 394.
Remedies for the collection of the debt in other States
do not affect the right of South Carolina to tax. The
executors do not have title to the debts until they have
complied with the laws of South Carolina. Dial v. Gary,.
14 S. C. 573; Merchants Nat. Bank v. Tax Commissioft,
121 S. E. 142.
The debt and the dividend owed by the company to
the deceased were sufficient to give this State jurisdiction
to appoint an administrator, who could lawfully have
thken charge 6f the stock upon which the tax has been
paid and enforced payment of the debt and the dividend
in the courts of this State.
The coming into this State of the executors appointed
by the Illinois court, exercising the rights and privileges
accorded them by ยง 20 of the South Carolina Inheritance
Tax Act, was tantamount to taking out ancillary l6tters
in this State.
It is very serious to the State to have its power to tax
diminished, especially when new and greater demands are
being made by the public upon its treasury. The best
minds are exercised to find sources from which revenues
may be raised for schools, good roads, the care of the
insane and the sick, and the innumerable other demands

BEIDLER"v. SO. CAR. TAX COMMISSION.
1

5

Argument for Defendant in Error.

upon a civilized State. Standing alone, such considerations should, perhaps, have no weight in interpreting the
Constitution. But when such matters are very seriously
pressing and there is a substantial doubt as to the State
not having power in this respect, the doubt should be
resolved in favor of the State to tax. Unless there is a
clear and positive inhibition to exact this tax, it is urged
that such a necessary and fundamental need of the State
should not be denied.
It is said in Baldwin v. Missouri, 281 U. S. 586, that the
succession takes place in the State of domicile. We suggest that no succession takes place until the property is
reduced to possession in the State where located,-in the
State the laws of which give vitality to the contract and
will compel payment of the debt-the domicile of the
debtor. Wyman v. United States, 109 U. S. 654; Frick v.
Pennsylvania,268 U. S. 473, 493.
The business situs of the debt and dividends is in South
Carolina. The tax may be enforced in this State, the
debtor may be compelled to pay here, and the proceeds of
the debt may not be distributed until local creditors are
satisfied in preference to others. The statute creates a
lien upon this property to secure the payment of the tax.
Illinois has no jurisdiction of the thing-the debt and die
dividend-until the laws of South Carolina shall have been
satisfied and the debt and dividend delivered to the executors for distribution under the will, which is given force
and effect in South Carolina in accordance with the law
of the State. Cf. Frick v. Pennsylvania, 268 U. S. 473,
497.
It is assumed that, if a business situs had been shown in
Missouri, the decision in Baldwin v. Missouri would have
been in favor of the State. Assuming this, the Court is
requested to scrutinize the statement of the accountr appearing in the record.
If either South Carolina or Illinois should be denied the
right to tax in this case, we urge that it is but fair and in

6

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U.S.

accordance with natural justice that this debt and dividend held, managed and controlled, and in part earned,
in South Carolina, and given vitality and the power to
enforce payment by her laws, should be required to contribute to the support of the government of this State,
regardless of the domicile of the owner. Cf. Safe. Deposit & Trust Co. v. Virginia,280 U. S. 83, 92.
In assailing the constitutionality of a state statute, the
burden rests upon the assailant to establish that it in-;
fringes the constitutional guarantee which he invokes.
Toombs v. Citizens Bank, 281 U. S. 643; Corporation
Commissionv. Lowe, 281 U. S. 431.
Messrs. Seth T. Cole and William Dale O'Brien, by
special leave of Court, filed a brief on behalf of the Tax
Commission of the State of New York, as amicus curiae.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGBES delivered the opinion of
the Court.
On March 4. 1924, Francis Beidler, a resident of Chicago, Ill., died in that State, leaving a will by which he
bequeathed a portion of his personal property to his wife
and children directly, and gave the residue in trust for
their benefit and for charitable uses. The will was probated in Illinois, and Francis Beidler, II, and George
Engelking, the appellants, qualified as executors.
At the time of the death of the testator, he owned 8,000
shares of the capital stock of Santee River Cypress Lumber Company, a corporation organized under the lws of
South Carolina and doing business in that State. The
remainder, 7,000 shares, were owned by the testator's wife
and children. In addition, the Santee River Cypress
Lumber Company was indebted to the testator in the sum
of $556,864.22, for advances made by him to the company,
and in the sum of $t4,672 for dividends previously declared on his shares. The indebtedness was an open un-

BEIDLER v. SO. CAR. TAX COMMISSION.
1

Opinion of the Court.

secured account which was entered upon the books of the
company kept in South Carolina. The testator also kept
a complete set of personal books in Chicago upon which
appear entries of the amounts due him by the company
except the item of dividends.
The total amount of the indebtedness for advances and
dividends, $621,536.22, was included by the.Attorney General of Illinois in the computation of the value of the
decedent's estate for the purpose of fixing the inheritance
tax payable to that State.
The executors filed with the South Carolina Tax Commission, as required by the Inheritance Tax Law of South
Carolina, an affidavit setting forth all the above-mentioned assets. The payment of the succession tax to the
State of South Carolina with respect to the shares of
stock owned by the testator in the Santee River Cypress
Lumber Company was not contested by the xecutors,
and by agreement the value of these shares was fixed at
$204 per share, or $1,632,000. The South Carolina Tax
Commission also levied a tax upon the transfer of the
indebtedness, overruling the claim of the executors that
the State of South Carolina had no jurisdiction to impose
such a tax and that the levy of it would constitute a deprivation of property without due process of law in violation
of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Federal Constitution. This contention was renewed upon the appeal of
the executors to the Supreme Court of the State of South
Carolina. That court sustained the action of the Tax
Commission with respect to the taxability of the transfer
of the indebtedness, and the executors bring this appeal
to review that part of the judgment.
In reaching its conclusion as to the validity of the tax,
the state court relied chiefly upon the decision of this
Court in Blackstone v. Mler, 188 U. S. 189. That decision has been overruled, and it is now established that the
mere fact that the debtor is domiciled within the State

8

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U.S.

does not give it jurisdiction to impose an inheritance or
succession tax upon the transfer of the debt by a decedent
-who is domiciled in another State. Farmers Loan &
Trust Company v. Minnesota, 280 U. S. 204; Baldwin'v.
Missouri, 281 U. S. 586. The transfer is taxable by the
State-of the domicile of the deceased owner. Blodgett v.
Silberman, 277 U. S. 1. Open accounts, including credits
for cash deposited in bank, fall within this principle, and
its application is not defeated by the mere presence of
bonds or notes, or other evidences of debt, within a State
other than that of the domicile of the owner. Baldwin v.
Missouri, supra.
It is sought to sustain the tax by South Carolina upon
the ground that the indebtedness had what is called a
"business situs" in that State, and the state court adverted
to this basis for the tax. In FarmersLoan & Trust Company v. Minnesota, supra, this Court reserved the question of business situs, saying: "New Orleans v. Stempeb
175 U. S. 309, Bristol v. Washington County, 177 U. S.
133, Liverpool & L. & G. Ins. Co. v. Orleans Assessors, 221
U. S. 346, recognize the principle that choses in action
may acquire a situs for taxation other than at the domicile
of their owner if they have become integral parts of some
local business. The present record gives no occasion for
us to inquire whether such securities can be taxed a second
time at the owner's domicile." But a conclusion that
debts have thus acquired a business situs must have evidence to support it, and it is our province to inquire
whether there is such evidence when the inquiry is essential to the enforcement of a right suitably asserted under
the Federal Constitution.''-Kansas City Southern Railway Co. v. "AlbersCommission Co., 223
U. S. 573, 591-593; Creswill v. Knights of Pythias,225 U. S. 246, 261;
Northern Pacific Railway Co. v. North Dakota, 236 U. S. 585, 593;
Ward v. Love County, 253 U. S.17, 22; Davis v. Wechsler, 263 U. S.
22, 24; Railroad Commission v. Eastern Texas R. R. Co., 264 U. S. 79,

.BEIDLER v. SO. CAR. TAX COMMISSION.
1

9

Opinion of the Court.

In the present case, beyond the mere fact of stock ownership and the existence of the indebtedness, there is no
evidence whatever, having any bearing upon the question,
save a copy of the decedent's account with the corporation, taken from his books which were kept by him in his
office at Chicago. The various items of debit and credit
inthis account, in the absence of any further evidence, add
nothing of substance to the fact of the indebtedness as set
forth in the agreed statement and afford no adequate basis
for a finding that the indebtedness had a business situs in
South Carolina.
That the decedent was largely interested in the affairs
of the corporation is apparent; he owned a majority of
its stock, but nothing is shown which derogates from its
existence as a corporation, transacting its business as such,
with corresponding corporate rights and liabilities. The
interest of the decedent as a stockholder was a distinct
interest,2 and the estate of the decedent has been taxed by
South Carolina upon the transfer of his stock according to
its agreed value. With respect to the items of indebtedness of the corporation to the decedent, the latter appears
upon the record simply as a creditor, with his domicile in
Illinois.
For these reasons, the judgment of the state court, so
far as it relates to the taxation of the transfer of the debts
in question, must be reversed and the cause remanded for
further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
S6; New York Central R. R. Co. v. New York.& Pennsylvania Co.
271 U. S. 124, 126; Ancient Egyptian Order v. Michaux, 279 U. S.
737, 745.
2 Van Allen v. Assessors, 3 Wall. 573, 584; Hawley v. Malden, 232
IT. S. 1, 12; Eizer v. Macomber, 252 U. S. 189, 214; Rhode Island
Trust Co. v. Doughton, 270 U. S. 69, 83.

10

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Syllabus.

282 U.S.

AIR. JUSTICE HOLMES: The decisions of last term cited
by the CHIEF JusTICE seem to sustain the conclusion
reached by him. Therefore MR. JUSTICE BRANDEis and
I acquiesce, without repeating reasoning that did not
prevail with the Court.
STRATTON, SECRETARY OF STATE OF ILLINOIS,
v. ST. LOUIS SOUTHWESTERN RAILWAY COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 6.

Argued January 16, 1930. Reargued October 28, 1930.Decided November 24, 1930.

1. A questibn of jurisdiction necessarily presented by the record must
be decided, although not raised by the parties. P. 13.,
2. Decisions of the Court require the following conclusions as to the
purpose and.effect of Jud. Code, ยง 266, as amended:
(a) In its original form, the statute sought to make interference
by interlocutory injunction with the enforcement of state legislation, upon the ground of unconstitutionality, a matter for the adequate hearing and full deliberation which the presence of a court of
three judges, as therein provided, was likely to secure; and to
minimize the delay incident to review upon appeal of orders granting or denying interlocutory injunctionf in this grave class of cases.
1
P. 14.
(b) These purposes were not altered by the amendment of February 13, 1925, (43 Stat. 938), by which the provision for the
presence of three judges was made to apply also to the final hearing
in the District Court, and by which final decres, ' granting or denying permanent injunctions in such cases, were also made appealable
directly to this Court. Id.
(c) The statute applies only where there is a substantial claim of
invalidity under the Federal Constitution and where an application
for an interlocutory 'injunction, for the purposes contemplated by
*thestatute, is made and pressed. P. 15.
(d) If an interlocutory injunction is not sought by the plaintiff,
a single judge may hear and determine the case, and an appeal
from the final decree will lie to the Circuit Court of Appeals under
Jud. Code, ยง 128. Id.

