CONCORDIA INS. CO. v. .SCHOOL DIST.
Syllabus.

CONCORDIA INSURANCE COMPANY OF MILWAUKEE v. SCHOOL DISTRICT NO.

98 OF

PAYNE COUNTY, OKLAHOMA.
ROYAL INSURANCE

COMPANY, LIMITED,
SAME.

v.

NATIONAL FIRE INSURANCE COMPANY v. SAME.
FIRE ASSOCIATION OF PHILADELPHIA v. SAME.
CERTIORARI TO TEE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
TENTH CIRCUIT.
Nos. 278, 279,. 280, and 281. Argued January 15, 1931.-Decided
February 24, 1931.
1. Upon demurrer all allegations of the complaint which are sufficiently pleaded must be taken as true. P. 550.
2. Allegations of complaint held sufficient to constitute waiver of, or
estoppel against setting up, condition in policy requiring insured to
furnish verified proofs of loss. P. 548.
3. A stipulation in a fire insurance policy, that any waiver to be
effective must be written upon or attached to the policy, does not
apply to a waiver, after the loss occurs, of stipulations in respect of
things to be done after the loss as prerequisites to adjhstment and
payment. Scottish Union & Nat. Ins. Co. v. Rncampment Smelting Co., 166 Fed. 231, disapproved. P. 551.
4. Although it is well established that a federal court will follow the
decisions of the highest court of a State construing a state statute,
yet where, prior to the judgment of the District Court, the decisions
of the highest state court are in such confusion that its view in
respect of the meaning of the applicable statute can not definitely
be determined, the District Court is free to construe the statute for
itself. P. 552.
5. A decision of the highest court ot a State construing a state statute,
rendered more than a year after a judgment of a federal district
court, can not be given a retroactive effect in respect of the latter
so as to "make that erroneous which was not so when the judgment of that court was given." P. 553.
22110o-31-35

546

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Argument for Petitioners.

282 U2S.

6. In the absence of an authoritative -state decision to the contrary,
there was nothing in Oklahoma Comp. Stat., §§ 5972 and 5973,

which required a federal district court to depart from the rule
recognized by this Court in respect of theallowance of interest;
* and, upon the record in these cases, suits to recover upon policies of
insurance for loss and-damage by fire, the allowance of interest from
the date when the liability accrued was justified. P. 554.
40 F. (2d) 379, affiried.
CERTioRARI, post, p. 817, to review judgments of the Circuit Court of Appeals affirming judgments in favor of'the
respondent in four suits brought"to recover upon policies
of insurance for loss by fire. The cases had been removed
.from a state court to the District Court on the ground of
,diversity of citizenship.

Mr. F. A, Rittenhouse, with whom Mr. H. C. Thurcan
was on the brief, for petitioners.
in, support of the proposition that waivers-of proof of.
,loss must be in writing under the Oklahoma standard fire
insurance contract (Comp. Stats. Okla., 1921, § 6767),
they cited Northern Assurance Co. v. Grand View Bldg
"Assn., 183 U.Si 308; Imperial Fire Ins. Co. v. County of
Coos, 151 IU. S. 452; Riddlesbargerv,Hartford Fire Ins.
"Co., 7 Wall. 386; Lumber Underwritersv. Rife, 237 U. S.
695; Penman v. St. Paul Fire& MarineIns. Co., 216 U. S.
311; Thompson v. Phoenix Ins. Co., 136 U. S. 287;
Scottish Union & Nat. Ins. Co. V4 'Encampment Smelting
Co., 166 Fed. 231; Missouri-PacificRy, Co. v. Western
"Assurance Co., 129 Fed. 610; San Francisco Savings
Union, v. Western Assurance Co., 157 Fed. 695; Bank of
South Jacksonville v. Hartford Fire Ins. Co., 1 F. (2d)
43; Harrisv. North British & Mer. Ins. Co., 30 F. (2d)
94, certiorari denied 279 U. S.852; HartfordFireIns. Co.
v, Empire Coal Min.-Co., 30 F. (2d) 794; People's Bank
* v. Aetna Ins. Co., 74 Fed. 507.'
. Also, among other cases, on the proposition that where
-a - policy of insurance contains a standafd provision re-

CONCORDIA INS. CO. v. SCHOOL DIST.
545

547

Opinion of the Court.

quiring that a waiver be in writing, oral evidence caniot
be introduced to establish a waiver: Northern Assurance
Co. v. Grand View Bldg. Assn., 183 U. S. 308; Limiber
Underwritersv. Rife, 237 U. S. 605; New York Lifc Ins.
Co. v. Fletcher, 117 U. S. 519; Imperial Assurance Co. v.
County of Coos, 151 U. S. 452.
Mr. Frank G. Anderson, with whom Messrs. R. J1.
Rainey, Streeter B. Flynn, and Chester H. Lowry were on
the brief, for respondent..
MR. JusTice. SUTiaERiAwD delivered the opinion of the
Court.
These cases, involving identical questions, arose in the
State of Oklahoma and were removed from a state court
to a federal district court where they were consolidated
and tried. They were brought to recover upon -separate
policies of insurance issued by the petitioners, respectively, for loss and damage sustained by fire. A jury in
the trial court found the issues in favor of respondent,
and judgment was entered for the amount of the verdict
with an additional sum for interest from the date when
the liability accrued. Upon appeal to the circuit court
of appeals, that court struck from the transcript the bills
of exceptions, and the consolidated causes were disposed
of as upon demurrers to the amended complaints. 40 F.
(2d) 379.
Certiorari from this court Was asked upon two grounds,
(1) that the court below had construed a statute of Oklahoma, relating to the allowance of interest, contrary to the
construction put upon it by the state supreme court; and
(2) that there was a conflict between the decision below
and one rendered by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Eighth Circuit in respect of the contention that the requirement contained in the policies that proofs of loss
must be furnished within sixty days could not be waived
except in writing.

48 ':

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

We consider these grounds in the reverse order.
First. Each of the policies provided that in case of fire
Immediate notice in writing oX any loss should be given to
the company, and wvithin sixty days a statement should
be rendered, signed and sworn to by the insured, setting
forth the time and origin of the fire, the interest of insured
and others in the property, the cash value of the items
and amount of loss upon each, and other particulars; that
tho company should not be held to have waived any proAion or condition of the policy by any requirement, act
or proceeding on its part relating to the appraisal, or any
exarination provided for; that the loss should not become
payable until sixty days after the notice, ascertainment,
estimate,-and.proof -of loss had been received by the cofLpahy, including an award by an appraiser when appraisal
had been required; that no person, unless duly authorized
in ivriting, should be deemed an agent of the insurer in*
any matter relating to insurance; that no officer, agent, or
other'representative should have power to waive any provision or condition of th6 policy except such as by the
terms. of the policy might be the subject of agreeiaeni
endorsed thereon or added thereto; and that no waiver
should be effec ive unless written upon or attached to the
policy.
The. comp laints contained pleas of waiver and estoppel,
the-substance of which we, adopt from the opinion of the
court below [p.*382J:
"T e -amended complaints alleged that on January 2,
.1926,- and, within two or three hours after the fire had
destroyed the building and furniture and fixtures therein,
the plaintiff notified appellants' agents of the fire and the
e;tent .of the damage and destruction, with' the fE'uest

that they notify -their comapanies. That within two or
three days thereafter the appellants selected named 'persons to represent them and authorized such persons to
investigate the fire and make estimates as to the value

CONCORDIA INS. CO. v. SCHOOL DIST.
545

549

Opinion of the Court.

of the property destroyed aid settle for the loss; that
these adjusters for the insurers visited the scene of the fire
and made examinations as to the value of the property
destroyed and the circumstances surrounding the fire, and
had plaintiff furnish them with the items of the property
destroyed, the plans and specifications of the building,
which plaintiff furnished, and requested pjaintiff to furnish assistance to a building contractor selected and
appointed by the insurers and their' adjusters, who was to
make estimates of the value of the property destroyed and
collect information as to its condition at "the ti-ne of the
loss; that thereafter on the 27th day of February, 1926,
which was the 56th day after thefire, the said adjusters
and the members of plaintiff's board of trustees held a
meeting at the scene of the fire; that said building contractor was at said meeting; that said meeting was held
for the purpose of discussing the settlement and adjustment of the loss'sustained by plaintiff; that thereupon all
of the insurers, acting through their said adjusters and
agents, stated to plaintiff's board that they had made full
and complete investigation as to the fire and the market
value of the building and furniture and fixtures therein
destroyed by said fire and had obtained all and the correct
information thereon, that there was no question as to th
loss upon the furniture and fixtures in the sum of
$3,400.00 and that appellants were then and there ready
to pay plaintiff that sum for its loss on the furniture and
fixtures; that said insurers, through their adjusters and
agents, at the same time stated that said building was
overvalued and could be replaced for the sum of approximately $53,000, and then offered the sum of approximately $56,000 as full payment for all of the loss to both
said buildings and furniture and fixtures destroyed; that
plaintiff declined to accept said amount and requested the
insurance companies, through their adjusters, to replace
said building, this however the insurers refused to do;

S550

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

that plaintiff's board at said meeting contended that the
value of the building was $75,000; that the value of the
.building and its replacement cost were the only matters
discussed as to which there was any disagreement; no
bbjection was made at any time that proofs of loss had
not -been furnished by the plaintiff and there was no
request for the same; that the insurers at said meeting,
by their conduct in offering to pay the full amount of
insurance upon the furniture and fixtures and in offering
to pay the sum of $53,000 for the loss of the building, led
the plaintiff to believe that the only matter in dispute
was the market and replacement value of the building, the
appellants contending bn the one haid that the market
and replacement value was the sum of $53,000 and the
plaintiff contending that the value was $75,000, and. that
by reason of the facts stated appellants *aived the furnishing of proofs of loss in strict accordance with the.
provisions, of the policies and are estopped to set up anil
claim such failure to furnish proofs; that appellants,
through the examinations and efforts of their adjusters
dnd the assistance of plaintiff's board rendered at the
request of the adjusters obtained all the information
which could have been obtained had proof of loss been
furnished in strict, conformity to the policies and the said
adjusters led the plaintiff to believe that theyhad all the
information desired with reference to said loss."
Upon demurrer these allegations must,be taken as true.
And, unless the. stipulation contained in the:policy. that
any waiver to be effective must be written upon or attached to the policy stands in the way, it is clear that
the facts alleged are sufficient to constitute a waiver of,
or, what amounts to the same thing, an estoppel against
setting. up, the condition requiring verified proofs of loss
to be furnished within sixty days.. See Firemen's Ins.
Co. v. Brooks, 32 F. (2d) 451, 452; ContinentalIns. Co.
v. Fortner,25-.F. (2d) 398, 401, et seq. Cf.'-Insurance

CONCORDIA INS. CO. v. SCHOOL DIST.
545

551

Opinion of the Court.

Co. v. Wolff, 95 U. S. 326, 333. That the stipulation does
not stand in the way is settled by the great preponderance of federal and state decisions. The rule deducible
from these authorities is that such a stipulation has reference to those provisions and conditions which constitute
part of the contract of insurance, and does not apply to
a waiver, after the loss occurs, of stipulations in respect
of things to be done subsequent to the loss as prerequisites
to adjustment and payment. It is enough to cite as examples-ContinentalIns. Co. v. Fortner, supra, p. 402;
Home Ins. Co. v. Hightower, 22 F. (2d) 882, 885; Twin
City FireIns. Co. v. Stockmen's Nat. Bank, 261 Fed. 470,
476.
With some exceptions, the cases decided by this court,
relied upon by petitioners (e. g., Lumber Underwritersv.
Rife, 237 U. S. 605), merely apply the familiar principle
that parol proof may not be received to vary the terms
of a written instrument; and nothing in any of them is
in conflict with the rule as above stated. Scottish Union
& Nat. Ins. Co. v. Encampment Smelting Co., 166 Fed.231, supports petitioners' contention; and it was because of the conflict created by that case that the certiorari here was granted. We cannot accept the theory
of that case. It is out of harmony with the general current of authority, and with the views we have expressed.
A late decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Eighth Circuit clearly indicates that if the same question
were again before that court the Scottish Union case
would not be followed. HartfordFireIns. Co. v. Empire
Coal Min. Ca., 30 F. (2d) 794, 802.
Second. The trial court allowed interest upon the
amount of the loss beginning sixty days from the last date
upon which proofs of loss were due under the terms of
the policies. The contention is that the allowance of interest in a case of this kind is controlled by § 5972, Compiled Oklahoma Statutes, 1921, and that that statute as

552

OCTOBER TERM, 1930
Opinion of the Court.

2821. S.

construed by the State Supreme Court does not allow
interest prior to the rendition of judgment. The section
referred to reads:
"Any person who is entitled to recover damages certain,
or capableof being made certain by calculation, and the
right to recover which is vested in him upon a particular
day, is entitled also to recover interest thereon from that
day, except during such time as the debtor is prevented
by law, or by the act of the creditor from paying the
debt."
The general rule that a federal court will follow the
decisions of the highest court of a state construing a state
statute is, of course, well established. The difficulty here is
that, prior to the judgment of the federal district court in
this case allowing interest, the decisions of the Supreme
Court of Oklahoma were in such confusion that the view
of that court in respect of the meaning of the statute,
as applied to the present case, could not definitely be
determined.
In City of Chickasha v. Hollingsworth,56 Okla. 341, it
was held that interest could not be recovered upon unliquidated damages where a judgment on verdict was
necessary in order to ascertain the amount; and that decision was followed in St. Paul Fire & Marine Ins. Co. v.
Robison, 72 Okla. 269, where the action was under a hail
insurance policy to recover for damages to a crop of cotton. On the contrary, in City of Oklahoma City v. Hoke,
75 Okla. 211, it was held that, in an action for the destruction of crops due to an overflow caused by the maintenance
of a dam, damages and interest from the time of the
injury must be allowed on the ground that the value of the
property destroyed was susceptible of computation. And
again in HartfordFire Insurance Co. v. Bernard,99 Okla.
44, in an action upon a fire insurance policy for unliquidated damages, it was held that, since the amount could
be ascertained by calculation based on the reasonable

CONCORDIA INS. CO. v. SCHOOL DIST.
545

5 53

Opinion of the Court.

mat1iet value of the property insured, interest should be
allowed from the time when the insurance company shbuld
have satisfiel the claim. In the still later case of Midland
Valley R. Co. v. Price, 127 Okla. 106, where the-action
was for death of cattle caused by the negligence of a common carrier, and damage for the loss was. based on the
market value, it was held hat interest was recoverable
from the date of the injury.
From an examination and comparison of these cases and
others it is evident that-the federal trial court could not
say that the State Supreme Court definitely had so construed the statute ag to deny to the insured the iight to
recover interest from the date when payment for thd loss
should have been made; and the federal court was free
to construe the statute for itself.
Petitioners, however, rely upon Americans Eagle Fire
Ins. Co. v. Lively, 142 Okla. 246, as finally having settled
the question in harmony with their contention. Whether
it does so is, at least, doubtful. The action there was
upon a fire insurance policy, the property destroyed consisting mostly of library books and some household furniture. In disposing of the question of interest the court
said [p. 247]:
"Considering the nature of the property destroyed and
the difficulty in ascertaining the actual or fair value
thereof, we think interest should not have been allowed
until the claim was reduced to judgment."
Assuming this to be a correct exposition of the statute
as applied to that gase, it does not follow, in the light of
some of the other decisions digested above, that the same
rule would be applied to the destruction of a house,. the
replacement or fair value of which could be ascertained
without much difficult . But that inquiry may be put
aside, since the decision was handed down on April 8,
1930, more than a year after the present judgment had
been entered by the federal district court,. and whatever

*554

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

may be the prospective effect of this last decision it cannot be given a retroactive effect in respect of the judgment of the federal district court so as to "make that
erroneous which was not so when the judgment of that
court was given." Morgan v. Curtenius, 20 How. 1, 3;
Pease v. Peck, 18 How. 5957 598; Roberts v. Bolles, 101'
U; S! 119, 128-129; Burgess -. Seligman, 107 U. S. 20, 35;
Edward Hines Trustees v. Martin,268 U. S. 458; Fleisch.?nann Co. v. Murray, 161 Fed. 162.
The circuit court of appeals thought'that the matter of
interest was controlled by § 5977, Compiled Oklahoma
.Statutes, 1921, which provides:
"The detrimei.t caused by the breach of an obligation to pay money only is deemed to be the amount
due by the terms of the obligation, with interest thereon."
Here the insurance companies had admitted their
liability in the sum of $3,400 for furniture and fixtures
and in the sum of $53,000 for the building, the latter
amount being based upon what they insisted would be
the cost of replacement. -The only dispute between the
parties was as to the latter item. Respondent contended
that the value of the building was $75,000, but expressed
* a willingness and desire to have petitioners make the replacement. Under the terms of .the insurance contracts
the companies became-liable to pay the amount of the
loss not later than sixty days after proof of loss, or within
one hundred and twenty days in all from the date of the
loss. In the light of these facts it is immaterial whether
§ 5972 or § 5977 be invoked. In the absence of an
authoritative state decision to the contrary, there was
nothing in either which required the trial court in rendering its judgment to depart from the rule in respect of the
allowance of interest which this court had recognized,
namely, that, even in a' case of unliquidated damages,
to arrive at fair compensation,
"when
necessary
in order
the court
in the exercise
of -a sound discretion may include
-

STORY PARCHMENT CO. v. PATERSON CO.
545

555

Syllabus.

interest or its equivalent as an element of damages."
Miller v. Robertson, 266 U. S. 243, 257-259, and cases
cited. See also Standard Oil Co.. v. United States, 267
U. S.76, 79; Bernhard v. Rochester German Ins. Co., 79
Conn. 388, 397. Under the facts disclosed by the record,
the principles established by these decisions fully justified
the allowance of interest made by the district court in
this case,
Judgment affirmed.
STORY PARCHMENT COMPANY v. PATERSON
PARCHMENT PAPER COMPANY ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

FIRST CIRCUIT.
No. 57.

Argued January 19, 20, 1931.-.Decided February 24, 1931.

1. On review by certiorari, respondents, without necessity of a crosspetition, may invoke as an additional ground for sustaining the
judgment of the lower court a ground which that court had found
against them. P. 560.
2. In an action under the Sherman Anti-Trust Act, on an issue as to
whether there was evidence of a conspiracy or combination to
monopolize interstate trade, this Court, upon examination of the
record, finds evidence sufficient to preclude interference with concurrent findings of courts below. P. 560.
3. Evidence ;held sufficient to show that petitioner in an action for
damages under Sherman Anti-Trust Act was injured in its business
and property as result of respondents' unlawful combination.
P. 560.
4. Assumption indulged by the appellate court, that respondents'
acts would have been the same if they had been acting independently of one another, rejected as unsound, in light of evidence and
instruction warranting finding by jury that price-cutting and resulting lower prices were directly attributable to unlawful combination. P. 561.
5. Characterization of verdict under Sherman Act, which included
damages measured by difference between amounts actually realized
by petitioner and what would have been realized by it from sales at

