74

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Syllabus.

282 U.S.

Campbell, 82 Conn. 671, 677; Mercer v. Corbin, 117 Ind.
450; Belk et al. v. People, 125 Ill. 584, 589-590; Kennedy
v- Way, Bright. (Pa.) 186, 188. Such an act properly cannot be described otherwise than as a grave offense-a
crime within the meaning of the third Article of the Constitution-and as such within the constitutional guarantee
of trial by jury.
Judgment affirmed.

BEAUMONT, SOUR LAKE & WESTERN RAILWAY
COMPANY ET AL. v. UNITED STATES n-T AL.
UNITED STATES ET AL. v. BEAUMONT, SOUR
LAKE & WESTERN RAILWAY COMPANY ET AL.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNrIED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.

Nos. 44 and 45.

Argued October 20, 1930.-Decided November 24,
1930.

1. In fixing divisions of joint rates under § 15 (6) of the Interstate
Commerce Act, the facts specified in that section, and others necessarily or properly to be taken into account, are to be considered
having regard to the duty of the Commision under § 15 a (2) to
establish and adjust rates so that the carriers as a whole, in each
rate group or territory that the Commission may designate, will,
under management and expenditures such as are there specified,
earn as nearly as may be a fair return upon the aggregate value
of their operating property. P. 82
2. Section 15 (6) requires the Commission to consider the condition
of each carrier and to determine whether the division of each
joint rate is unreasonable, or otherwise repugnant to the specified
standards, and what division will for the future-be just, reasonable
and equitable; the Commission may not change an existing division
unless it finds that division unjust or unreasonable. Id..
3. But the Commission need not under all circumstances take specific evidence as to each rate of every carrier. When considering
divisions of numerous joint rates applicable to traffic passing
through gateways between different territories, the Commission

BEAUMONT, S. L. & W. RY. v. U. S.
74

75

Syllabus.

may make the required determinations and establish the bases
for divisions between groups of carriers in the respective territories
upon evidence which it reasonably may deem typical and to have
sufficient probative weight to justify the necessary findings and
the order in respect of each rate. That is to say, such typical
evidence may sufficiently disclose the facts necessary to enable
the Commission duly to consider the divisions of each joint rate
to be received by every carrier. P. 82.
4. Where the evidence before the Commission is sufficient to disclose, as to each carrier, all the facts specified in § 15 (6) and to
furnish an adequate and reasonable basis for the proper divsion
of each of the joint rates applicable to the traffic involved, the
mere fact that carriers and divisions were dealt with on an average or group basis does not indicate that the Commission did not
properly consider each carrier and rate, or that it did not duly
take into account the facts specified in § 15 (6), or that it failed
to obey the statute in any respect. P. 83.
5. General statements in the reports of the Commission to the effect
that, in reaching its conclusions, it considered all the pertinent
evidence, add nothing to the prima facie presumption that generally
attends its determinations. P. 86.
6. In support of an order dividing joint rates as between two territorial groups of carriers on the basis of the general mean of the
conditions of the several carriers constituting each group, the reports of the Commission showed that its findings as to average
group conditions taken as a whole were sustained by the evidence,
but there was other evidence before it showing, as between individual carriers in each group, so wide a iange of rates of return
that, if approximate similarity in that respect was essential to the
order, its basis could not be sustained. Held.
(1) The failure of the Commission specifically to report the
facts and give the reasons upon which it justified the use of the
average or group basis is condemned. Complete statements by the
Commission showing the grounds upon which it rests its determi.
nations in cases like this are quite as necessary as opinions of lower
courts setting forth the reasons for their decisions in analogous
cases; and this Court has recently emphasized their duty fully to
state the ground on -which they act. P. 86.
(2) Failure in this was not excused by the fact that the carriers presented evidence on a group basis or by omission of carriers, in their petition for rehearing, to object to the use of
averages. P. 87.

76

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Counsel for Parties.

282 U.S.

(3) A sound basis for a rule or formula prescribing the divisions is essential to compliance with the Act, and carriers suing
to set the order aside upon the ground that the divisions are unreasonable are not estopped from assailing .the ayerages or groups
adopted. P. 87.
.7. The evidence in this case leads to the opinion that, notwithstanding the wide differences in rates of return between carriers, the
basis adopted will not, on that account, result in unjust and
unreasonable divisions. Id.
8. In a suit to set aside an order of the Commission fixing divisions
of joint rates, a contention that the prescribed divisions are conflscatory, in violation of the Fifth Amendment, has no foundation
in the record if there is no allegation in the complaint, or evidence
to show, that any division to any of the complaining carriers will
not yield a sum equal to the operating expenses chargeable to the
service covered by it plus a -reasonable return on the property
value fairly attributable to that service. P. 88.
9. Joint rates between eastern and southwestern points were subject
to an established primary division at points orl the Mississippi
River. In a proceeding under § 15 (6), the Commission sought to
make just subdivisions of revenues on transportation west of the
river, assuming the validity of the joint rates and the primary divisions. Held that carriers which were parties to the joint rates but
which participated only in the transportation and revenues east
of the river, need not be made parties to the proceeding. P. 89.
10. The District Court, upon dismissing a bill by carriers to annul
an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission fixing divisions of
joint rates, has authority in its discretion to stay the enforcement
of the prescribed divisions pending appeal; and discretion was
not abused in this case. Pp. 90-92.
36 F. (2d) 780, affirmed.

APPF,As from a decree of a District Court of three
judges dismissing the bill in a suit brought by carriers to
*set aside an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission prescribing divisions of joint rates; and from an order
staying enforcement of the divisions until determination
here.
Messrs. F. H. Moore and Samuel W. Moore, with whom
Messrs. W. E. Davis, E. T, Miller, M. G. Roberts, J. R.

BEAUMONT, S. L. & W. RY. v. U. S.
Opinion of the Court.

74

Bell, G. H. Muckley, H. H. Larimore, C. S.. Burg, J. -R.
Turney, and Robert Thompson were on the brief, for the
Southwestern Lines.
Mr. E. M. Reidy, with whom Solicitor General Thacher,
Assistant to the Attorney General O'Biian, Messrs.
Charles H. Weston, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, and Daniel W. Knowlton were on the brief,
for the United States and the Interstate Commerce'
Commission.
Mr. Frank H. Towner, with whom Messrs. Silas H.
Strawn, P. F. Gault, K. F. Burgess, Ralph M. Shav, J.
Carter Fort, G. M. Swan Arom, A. H. Lossow, K. L.
Richmond, and L. H. Strasser were on the brief, for the
Western Trunk Carriers.
MR. JusTiCE B

=TIER

delivered the opinion of the Court.

This is a suit brought in the District Court for the
Western District of Missouri by appellants, carriers in
southwestern territory, against the United States to annul
and set aside an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission prescribing divisions of joint rates applicable to
certain freight traffic between points in that territory and
points in. western trunk line territory or via western lines
to and from points in eastern territory. The Commission
and certain western- trunk line carriers intervened.. The
ease was tried before a court of three judges. 28 U. S. C.,
§ 47. It sustained the order and dismissed the petition.
36 F. (2d) 789. The southwestern lines appealed. 28
U. S. C., § 345 (4). The court stayed the enforcement of
the prescribed divisions until determination here. The
United States and Interstate Commerce Commission
appealed from that order.
The Commission's order complained of was made in proceedings, instituted October 8, 1923, by the Commission

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U.S.

on its own motion. Its report defines western trunk line
territory to include Iowa, Minnesota, Wisconsin, the Upper Peninsula of Michigan, Illinois, North Dakota, South
Dakota, and that part of Missouri on and north of the
main line of the Missouri Pacific between Kansas Cityand
St. Louis; it defines the southwestern territory to include
Texas, Arkansas, Oklahoma, that part of Louisiana west
Of the Mississippi river, and so much of Missouri as is
south of the above mentioned line of the Missouri Pacific.
Twelve western trunk lines and thirty-two southwestern
lines were parties to this investigation. The former, carriers in'-That territory having little or no mileage in the
southwest, demanded increases and were by the Commission called complainants; the latter, carriers in the southwest having little or no mileage in the other territory,
merely sought to retain the existing divisions and were
called defendants. The: Santa Fe and Rock Island, named
as defendants, have important lines in both territories.
The former regarded itself as a southwestern carrier; the
latter-remained neutral. The investigation was as to the
reasonableness of divisions of joint rates on freight traffic
b~tween points on lines of respondents in southwestern
territory and points on lines of respondents in western
trunk line 'territory moving through Kansas City or St.
Louis in- Missouri, East St. Louis, Cairo, Gale or Thebes
in Illinois,' and of divisions of the joint rates accruing
to respondents on traffic moving through such gateways
between such points in southwestern territory and points
in- eastern territory that lie east of the Illinois-Indiana
state line.
The Commission made a report (148 1 C. C. 457) in
which among other things it found (p. 477):
Existing divisions were established for the most part
about 35 years ago and conform to no logical or consistent
basis. They are considerably more favorable to the western trunk lines in case of' oil and lumber than in case of

BEAUMONT, S. L. & W. RY. v. U. S.
74

Opinion of the Court.

other trffic. Transportation conditions have changed
materially since most of the divisions were established and
the changes have benefited the southwestern lines more
than they have those in the other group. And the trend'
is distinctly in favor of the former. In respect of density
of traffic, transportation conditions are more favorable in
western trunk line territory, but conditions vary in different parts of that territory and are considerably more
favorable in Illinois than in the other States included in
that region and are progressively less favorable from east
to west. The difference in 'transportation conditions is
reflected in the level of rates in the two territories. it
is not possible from the record to determine just What
the average difference is but it appears to be greater than
the difference in average transportation- conditions. This
is particularly true of the class rates which are constructed
upon somewhat different theories in the two territories
and are in process of revision in the western trunk line
territory. The cost of operation per ton mile including
all expenses, charges and a fair return on investment
probably does not average as much as 20 per cent higher
in the southwestern territory than in the other group.
On the whole the financial condition of the western trunk
lines is not as good as that of the southwestern lines.
The report continues (p. 478):
"The divisions here in issue are'dealt with of- record
on a group basis. They are, in other words, the divisions
'in the aggregate' north and south of the' gateways
named, and no question is raised with respect to the divisions of individual carriers. In our opinion the divisions
in issue are not just, reasonable, and equitable. Many
of them are unjust to complainants, and some of them are
unjust to defendants. To cure their defects, they must
be readjusted upon a consistent basis which will as nearly
as practicable reflect, in the light of all the facts of record,
the differing conditions in the two territories."

80 -

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U.S.

The Commission found that divisions for the future
should be made as follows: The joint rates applicable to
traffic moving'to' or from points in Illinois and Wisconsin
should be divided in the proportions that the first-class
rate on the southwestemrscale for the length of haul
south of the gateway and 80 per cent. of such rate for the
length of haul north Of the gateway, respectively, bear
to-the total of such assumed rates. Similarly, the joint
rates on traffic to or from other points in western trunk
h'u'e territory should be divided by taking for the northern
'hiuf 87 (instead of 80) per cent. of such assumed rate.
The wetern trunk lines' share of joint rates applicable on
the traffic -to or from points in the territory east of the
Illinois-Indiana line should be determined in like manner
on the basis of 80 per cent. of the assumed rate for. the
,northern haul and by deducting 10 cents from that portion Where differentials are used in the construction of
the joint rates, they should be deducted before prorating
and added to the division accruing to the carriers in the
region where they apply. These rules or formulas were
ade subject to some exceptions which need not be given.
The report states that the assumed rates are intended
to reflect general differences in transportation conditions.
The factor of 80 per cent. gives the southwestern carriers
an advantage of 25 per cent., and the use of 87 per cent.
makes a difference in their favor of about 15 per cent.
-The Cofmmission found that complexity in the bases to
be employed is not desirable, that the differentiation provided for would produce sufficiently accurate and reasonable results and that divisions made in the manner specified will for the future be just, reasonable and equitable.
The southwestern lines presented a petition for rehearing which was denied. But the Commission made an additional report, 156 I. C. C. 94, and modified its findings
as to jont rates, applicable to traffic to and from points

BEAUMONT, S. L. & W. RY. .v. U. S.

81

Opinion of the Court.

74

in Illinois and Wisconsin or in the eastern territory by
changing the factor attributable 'to the haul north of
the gateways other than Kansas City from 80 to 75 per
cent. of the assumed rate, "andby increasing from 10 cents
to 15 cents the amount to be deducted from the western
lines' proportion of joint rates applicable to and from
points in eastern territory.
On the same day that it announced its second report,
June 10, 1929, the Commission iiade the order. As to
the joint rates in question, it directs that the " just,
reasonable and equitable divisions in the aggregate north
and south of said gateways" shall be made in accordance
with the Iindings and formulas above mentioned. Divisions made on the bases prescribed, while decreasing the
western trunk lines' shares on some shipments, will increase them on many more, and it is estimated that the
order will operate to give those lines about $3,000,000 annually, *over and above what would be yielded to them
under existing divisions. This is much less than one per
cent. of the total freight operating revenues of the southwestern carriers.
The appellants contend that the Act requires the Commission to determine the divisions of each carrier upon a
consideration of its own rights and needs, and does not
authorize the Commission to base its order upon group
conditions or upon average conditions in the group.
Section 15 (6) provides that whenever, after full hearing, the Commission is-of opinion that divisions of joint
rates are or will be unjust, unreasonable, inequitable or
unduly preferential or prejudicial as between parties
thereto, the Commission shall by order prescribe the just,
reasonable and equitable divisions thereof to be received
by the several carriers. "In so prescribing and determinhig the divisions of joint rates, fares and charges, the
Commission shall 'give due consideration, among other
220o-31-----6

82

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 IU.S:

things, to the efficiency with, which the carriers concerned
are operated, the amount of revenue required to pay their
respective operating expenses, taxes, and a fair return on
their railway property held for and used in the service
of transportation, and the importance to the public of the.
transportation services of such carriers; and also whether
any particular participating carrier is an originating, intermediate, or delivering line, and any other fact"or circumstance which would ordinarily, without regard to the
mileage haul, entitle one carrier to a greater or less proportion than another carrier of the joint rate, fare or
charge." 49 U. S. C., § 15 (6).
The facts specified above and others necessarily or properly to be taken into account are to be considered having
regard to the duty of the Commission, § 15a (2), to establish and adjust rates so'that the carriers as a-whole in each
rate group or territory that the Commission may designate
-will, under management and expenditures such as are
there specified, earn as nearly as may be a, fair return upon
the aggregate value of their operating property.
The Commission by § 15 (6) is required to consider the
condition of each carrier and to determine whether the
division of each joint rate is unreasonable or otherwise
repugnant to the specified standards and what division
will for the future be just, reasonable and equitable.
United States v. Abilene & So. Ry. Co., 265 U. S. 274,
291. The Commission may not change an existing division unless it finds that division unjust or unreasonable.
Brimstone R. R. Co. v. United States, 276 U. S. 104, 115.
Cf. Interstate Commerce Commission v. Louisville &
Nashvitle R. R., 227 U. S. 88, 92. But it need not under
all circumstances take specific evidence as to each rate
of every carrier. When considering divisions of numerous joint rates applicable to traffic passing through gateways between different territories the Commission may

BEAUMONT, S. L. & W. RY. v. U.S.
74

83

Opinion of the Court.

make the required determinations and establish the bases
for divisions between groups of carriers in the respective
territories upon evidence which it reasonably may deem
typical and to have sufficient probative weight to justify
the necessary findings and the order in respect of each
rate. That is to say, such typical evidence may sufficiently
disclose the facts necessary to enable the Commission duly
to consider the divisions of each joint rate to be received
by every carrier. New EnglandDivisions Case, 261 U. S.
184, 191, 196, 199. Brimstone R. R. Co. v. United States,
supra, 116.
The evidence before the Commission is sufficient to disclose as to each carrier all the facts specified in § 15 (6)
and to furnish an adequate and reasonable basis for the
proper division of each of the joint rates applicable to the
traffic here involved. The mere fact that carriers and
divisions were dealt with on an average or group basis
does not indicate that the Commission did not properly
consider each carrier and rate or that it did not duly take
into account the facts specified in § 15 (6) or that it failed
to obey the statute in any respect.
Appellants assert that the order is based solely upon a
comparison of average conditions of widely dissimilar
carriers comprising each group and that its enforcement
will bring about divisions so unjust and arbitrary as to be
beyond the Commission's power. They show by the record that in each group there are carriers that earn little
or no return, others that earn substantial amounts and
some that make relatively high returns. They strongly
emphasize that the prescribed divisions will operate in
some instances to transfer substantial sums from very
weak carriers in southwestern territory to prosperous ones
in vestern territory, and insist that mere comparison- of
returns demonstrates that divisions on a group basis will
be unjust and arbitrary. It seems to us that the table

84

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
282 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

included in the first report (p. 476), and others'received
in evidence' show as between individual Varriers in each
'The Commission found that ratei of return for individual carriers,
namely, the principal Chicago-St. Louis and Chicago-Kansas City
lines and the prominent southwestern lines, were as follows in 1922 to
1925, inclusive:
1924'
1925
1923
1922
Per
Per
Per
Per
Western Trunk Lines:
Cent
Cent
Cent
Cent
Chicago & Alton ............. 1.05
3.59
2.86
2.87
C. & E. I ....................
3.03
3.82
1.62
2.37
C. B. &Q ....................
4.52
4.29
4.80
4.60
C. G. W ................... .19
1.54
1.59
1.48
C. M.& St.P..................
1.90
2.81
2.57
2.27
Illinois CentraL ...............
5.92
5.17
4.76
4.76
Wabash ..................... 1 .77
3.84
3.85
4.84
",outhwestern Lines:

A. T. & S.F ...............
G. C
S.F ..................

.61
6.05

5.17
5.67

4.63
9.04

5.16
7.55

H. & T. C ...... .......... 4.30

4.44

5.28

4.33

H. E. & W..T .............. 2.26

1.75-

1.91

7.21

I. G. N ................... 2.87
4.98
5.63
4.52
K. C. M. & 0 ............. , Deficit
.22 Deficit
.24
K. C. M. & 0. of Texas ....... Deficit Deficit
2.41
.47
K. C. S ....................
2.88
2.60
2.85
3.49
M. K. T..
...............
4.72
3.78
4.29
4.96
M. K. T. of Texas ............
1.63
1.56
5.03
3.28
Mo., Pac .....................
2.09
2.21
3.81
4.14
St, L. S. F ...................
3.99
4.72
5.05
5.23
St. L. S. W ................... 7.05
7,44
4.97
4.81
St. L. S. W. of Texas ......... Deficit Deficit
1.33
1.46
Texas & Pacific..2.72
3.84
4.15
4.11
The appellants in theii lrief'suggest that the record shows similar
data as to other carriers who were respondents before the Commission:
-'Rate
of Return
1922- 1923 ' 1924
1925
Per
Per
Per
.Per
Western trunk line' respondents:
Cent
Cent Cent Ceat
Chicago & 1orthwestern Ry. Co...
3.47 ' 3.04 3.23
4.14
Chi., St. P., Mpls. & Omaha .......
4.11. 3.32
3.73
3.46

BEAUMONT, S. L. & W. RY. v. U. S.
74

85

Opinion of the Court.

group so wide a range of rates of return that, if approximate similarity in that respect is 'essential to the order,
its basis cannot be sustained.
"Average" as used in the report manifestly is not intended to refer to an arithmetical calculation, the quo-Rate
Western trunk line respondents--Con.

of Return

1922

1923

1924

1925

Per

Per

Per

Per

Minmieapolis & St. Louis ..........
1.32
1.22 Deficit
.36
Mpls., St. P. & S. Ste. Marie ......
3.31
3.75
3.04 4.10
Q., 0. & K. C. R. R ............. Deficit Deficit Deficit Deficit
Southwestern respondents:
Gulf Coast Lines .................
6.85
8.52 9.68 9.79
The Beaumont, Sour Lake &

West. Ry.Co.
New Orleans, Tex. & Mexico Ry.
Co.
St. Louis, Brownsville & Mex.
Ry. Co.
Ft. Worth & Denver City Ry. Co..
Sou. Pac. Lines in Tex. and La....
Galveston, Harrisburg & S. A.
Ry. Co.
Houston & Shreveport R. R. Co.
Louisiana Western R. R. Co.
Morgan's La. & Tex. R. R. &
S. S. Co.
Texas & New Orleans R. R. Co.
*Houston & Tex. Central R. R. Co.
*Houston East & West Tex. R. R.
Co.
Kansas, Okla. & Gulf Ry. Co.....
Louisiana Ry. & Navigation Co....
San Antonio & Aransas Pass Ry...
Vicksburg, Shreveport & Pacific...

7.40
2.35

8.63
2.43

10.52
3.97

9.19
3.27

2.80
1.31
.17 Deficit
.39 Deficit Deficit Deficit
.95
3.12
2.71
**
3.39
6.16
4.00 5.01

*The rates of return of the Houston & Texas Central R. R. Co. and
Houston East & West Texas R. R. Co. were shown, in the Commission's table, but the rates of return for the other respondents which
form parts of the Souihern Pacific System were excluded.
"Included as part of Southern Pacific Lines in 1925.

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U.S.

tient of a sum divided by the number of its terms. It is
rather to be understood as an estimated general mean of
the conditions of- the several carriers constituting each
group arrived at by the exercise of judgment upon the
facts shown by the evidence. The reports satisfactorily
show that the findings as to average group conditions
taken as a whole are sustained by substantial and persuasive evidence. Bi*t they do not deal with the important
question whether, under the evidence and having regard
to the wide dissimilarities between rates of return earned
by individual carriers in each territory, the use of the
average or group basis is justified and whether it will produce unreasonable divisions. The general statements in
the reports to the effect that the Commission in reaching
its conclusions considered all the pertinent evidence add
nothing to the prima facie presumption that generally
attends determinations of the Commission. Bluefield Co.
v. Public Service Commission, 262 U. S. 679, 688-689.
The Commission's failure specifically to report the facts
and give the reasons on which it concluded that under
the circumstances the use of the average or group basis
is justified leaves the parties in doubt as to a matter
essential to the case and imposes unnecessary work upon
the courts called upon to consider the validity of the order.
Complete statements by the Commission showing the
grounds upon which its determinations rest are quite as
necessary as are opinions of lower courts setting forth
the reasons on which they base their decisions in cases
analogous to this. Wichita R. 1. v. Public Utilities Commission, 260 U. S. 48, 58. And we have recently emphasized the duty of such courts. fully to state the grounds
upon which they act. Virginian Ry. v. United States, 272
U. S. 658, 675. Lawrence v. St. Louis-San FranciscoRy.,
274 U. S. 5S8, 591-592. Arkansas Commission v. Chicago,
R. L & P. R. Co., 274 U. S. 597, 603. Hammond V.
Schappi Bus Line, 2"75 U. S. 164, 171. -Cleveland, C., C.

BEAUMONT, S. L. & W. RY. v. U. S.
74

Opinion of the Court.

& St. L. Ry. v. United States, 275 U. S. 404, 414. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co. v. United Staies, 279 U. S. 781, 787.
And the Commission is not excused by the fact that the
carriers presented evidence on a group basis or by- the
omission of the southwestern lines in their petition for .
rehearing to object to the use of averages. The proceedings before the Commission were for the determination of
what divisions are and for the future will be reasonable.
Here the issue is whether the Commission's amended determinations and the order based on them are valid. Appellants are not estopped from assailing the averages or
groups adopted. A sound basis for the.rule or formula
prescribing the divisions is essential to compliance with
the Act.
Witf this criticism of the reports, we turn to what is
shown by the record. A. study of the facts that may be
gleaned from the latter leads to the opinion that, notwithstanding the wide differences in rates of return between carriers the basis adopted will not, at least on that
account, result in unjust and unreasonable divisions. The
Commission must consider the financial condition of the
carriers but it is not required to makethat the only test.
And it did not take the average of the rates of return
as the sole or principal factor for making the divisions.
As to each carrier, operating and other conditions were
shown and presumably considered by the Commission
in deciding whether average or group conditions might
appropriately be used. It is not shown that the order
will require any service to be rendered at less than cost.
It is impossible to make divisions that will yield the same
rate of profit to each carrier or upon every commodity
or shipment moved by it. The average cost of service
was apparently given much weight. It is not suggested
that the operating expenses of each carrier attributable
to the traffic in question vary as does its rate of return
on its business as a whole. Nor does it appear that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U.S.

carriers having the highest rates of return from their total
business or from that in the territory in Fhich they belong, move the traffic in question at, comparatively low
costs. Returns from total business of a carrier and the
cost of handling the traffic covered by the joint rates are
not dependent upon the same facts; the relation between
them is slight and remote. For aught that appears the
carriers having little or no return on their total business
may move the traffic in question at low costs and realize
a satisfactory percentage of profit on that part of their
business.
Other things being equal, divisions made on the mileage
basis will be the same as those made on the basis of relative costs. The Commission found that existing divisions
give southwestern lines over 30 per cent. more than their
mileage prorate and the order leaves them substantially
more than would divisions on that basis. This indicates
that the Commission considered the relatively high costs
at which the southwestern lines, or some of them, moved
the traffic in question. The fact that average conditions
affecting cost of transportation in the two groups have
changed and are still growing more favorable to the southwestern lines tends to justify a reduction of their existing
divisions. The greater density found in western trunk
line territory makes for lower costs, and that is shown
to have been taken into account. Appellants have not
sustained their contention.
Appellants claim that the Commission's order, if enforced, will operate to deprive them of their property
without due process d law in violation of the Fifth
Amendment to the Constitution.
It is well-established by the decisions of this court that,
in order to invoke such constitutional protection, the facts
relied upon to prevent enforcement of rates prescribed by
governmental authority must be specifically alleged and
from them it must clearly appear that the enforcement

BEAUMONT, S. L. & W. RY. v. U. S.
74

.Opinion of the Court.

of the measure complained of will, necessarily deny to
tfe' utility the just compensation safeguarded to it by
the Constitution. Aetna Insurance Co. v. Hyde, 275
U. S. 440, 447-8, and cases cited. Here the joint rates
themselves are not assailed as too low, but the claim
is that the prescribed divisions are confiscatory. The
same rules as to pleading and proof apply to orders
prescribing divisions as to laws fixing rates. There is no
allegation in the complaint, or evidence in the record
to show, that any division to any of the appellants will
not yield operating expenses chargeable to the service
covered by it plus a reasonable return on property value
fairly attributable to that service. There is no foundation
in the record for the contention.
Appellants contend that the provision of the order that
applies to the division of revenue derived from traffic
between points in the eastern territory and points in the
southwestern territory is unlawful because the eastern
carriers were not before the Commission and for lack of
evidence to show whether the divisions received by them
are just.
Section 15 (6) empowers the Commission to determine
and prescribe divisions of joint rat6s "as between the carriers parties thereto" and iequires it when so doing to
consider the condition and needs of each participating
carrier. The eastern carriers are parties to the joint rates
covering the whole movement. The reasonableness of
such rates is not involved. Every carrier, and there may
be many, participating in the haul is entitled to its just
share. The record, and especially testimony given in the
District Court, shows that there is and long has been a
primary division of such joint rates, one part for the carriers participating in transportation east of the Mississippi river and the other part for those hauling to or from
that point. Cf. Terminal R. R. Assn. v. United States,
266 U. S. 17, 30. The proceedings here under considera-

90

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion, of the Court.

282 U.S.

tion involve only the subdivision of that part of the revenue accruing to southwestern lines and western trunk
lines for service performed west of the "breaking" point
at Mississippi river crossings. The eastern carriers are
not at all concerned in this subdivision. In proceedings
concerning subdivisions of revenues assigned to the western
part of the service, it is competent for the Commission
to assume validity of the joint rates, their primary divisions and the subdivisions to cover the haul east of the
river. The Act does not require all questions concerning
all divisions of such joint rates to be determined in one
proceeding. United States v. Abilene &* So. Ry. Co.,
supra, 282. New England Divisions Case, supra, 201.
There was no defect of parties.
In their brief appellants suggest other grounds on which
they claim the order should be annulled. But we think
them plainly misufficient - to warrant reversal hnd that,
in view of what already has been shown in this opinion,
they do not merit separate discussion.
The cross appeal was taken by the United States and
the Interstate Commerce Commission; the other appellees, western trunk lines, did not join therein. The
investigation was pending for more than five years before
the first report was announced, December 10, 1928. No
order was then made. The Commission allowed the carriers 60 days within which to agree on readjustments. In
the repqrt on rehearing, June 10, 1929, the Commission
characterized the issues as important and the questions
raised as relatively new and difficult. The order was
made on the same day to take effect August 1, 1929. Before that date this suit was commenced, and the Commission postponed the taking effect of the order until
December 1, 1929. Inthe meantime the case was tried
and decided. It is clear that the Commission did not find
that any emergency existed.

BEAUMONT, S. L. &W. RY. v. U. S.
74

Opinion of the Court.

The decree dismissing the case was entered November
27, petition for appeal was filed that day and allowed
November 30. Appellants applied for a stay. The time
elapsing between the decree and the postponed effective
date of the Commission's order was not sufficient to permit the giving of notice to appellees. The court found
that novel and important questions concerning which
there was serious doubt were presented by the assignment
of errors; that if appellants, pending the appeal, paid
the prescribed divisions and the order finally should be
annulled they would be in danger of not being able to
recover back the amounts in excess of existing divisions
because of the financial condition of some of the western
trunk line carriers; that as the prescribed divisions did not
apply to all joint rates between the two territories, confusion and large useless expenditures would result if the
order were enforced pending the appeal and the decree
should be reversed; that the public interest would not
suffer in any manner by reason of the stay and that the
rights of the western trunk lines could be protected by
bond. The stay was granted on appellants' giving a bond
for $3,00000 for the protection of the carriers to whom
the order required payments of higher divisions.
Western trunk lines applied to have the stay vacated.
After hearing and consideration of the showing and arguments made by the parties, the court reaffirmed its earlier
findings and conclusions and further found that since the
court's decision the interested carriers including appellants
had worked diligently to establish the various percentages to be used in making the new divisions and that the
work could not be completed for several months. After
reviewing the situation the court said that the stay if
continued in force would operate to save the carriers
much labor and expense whether the appeal should be
successful or not.

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Syllabus

282 U. S.

Undoubtedly the court had authority in its discretion,
upon entry of the decree dismissing the bill, to stay the
enforcement of the prescribed divisions pending appeal.
Virginian Ry. v. United States, .supra,669. Omaha &
C. B. St. By. Co. v. Int. Com. Comm., 222 U. S. 582.
Cumberland Tel. Co. v. Pub. Serv. Comm., 260 U. S. 212,
219.' Cotting v. Kansas City Stockyards Co., 82 Fed. 860,
857. The court considered, and it cannot be said without
reason, that the questions raised by the assignments of
error are novel and doubtful. Unlike the situation presented in Virginian Ry. v. United States, supra, postponement of the taking effect of the order would inflict no
loss upon the public--producers, shippers or consumers.
It would not unfavorably affect the business of the carriers
and, if the wester4 trunk lines should ultimately be held
entitled to the higher divisions, they could be protected
by bond. 'We think it clear that the court did not abuse
its discretion in granting the stay.
The decrees are affirmed.
ALUMINUJM CASTINGS COMPANY v. ROUTZAHN,
INDIVIDUALLY AND AS COLLECTOR OF IN-TERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO, THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTB3 CIRCUIT.
No. 7. Argued February 25, 1930.

Reargued October 28, 29, 1930.-

Decided November 24, 1930.
Title HI, § 12 (a) of the Reveilue Act of '1916 provides that net
income and profits in the case of a domestic corporation 'shall
be ascertained by deducting fronx gross income expenses, interest
and taxes paid,' and losses sustained, during the' calendar year;
.section 13 (b) provides that the return in every case shall state
such data as are appropriate and in the opinion of the Commissioner necessary to determine the. correctness of -the het income

