KLEIN v. BOARD OF SUPERVISORS.
Argument for Appellant.

KLEIN v. BOARD OF TAX SUPERVISORS OF JEFFERSON COUNTY, KENTUCKY.
APPEAL FROM THE COVJRT OF APPEALS OF KENTUCKY.

No. 11.

Argued October 29, 30, 1930.-Decided November 24, 1930.

1. In Kentucky, corporate shares are not taxed to their owner if at
least 75% of the total property of the corporation is taxable in
Kentucky and the corporation pays the taxes thereon; but if less
than 75% of the corporation's propertv is taxable in Kentucky,
the shareholder is taxed upon the full value of his shares. Held
that this classification is not unreasonable and does not deny the
equal protection of the laws to shareholders who are taxed. P. 22.
2. The property of shareholders in their shares, and the property of
the corporation, are distinct property interests. A State may tax
the coporation and also tax the shareholders, but is under no constitutional obligation, taxing the one, to tax the other also. P. 23.
'3. To tax a shareholder upon the full value of his shares when a part
only of the corporation's propertyis, within the State, is not to tax
"property outside of the jurisdiction of the
State. P. 24.
4. If a corporation is a fiction, it is a fiction created by law with intent
that it shall be acted on as if true. The corporation is a person,
and its ownership is a nonconductor that makes it impossible to
attribute an interest in its property to its members. Id.
5. The Fourteenth Amendment does not require that land and stock
in corporations be taxed at the same rate or by the same test. of
value. Id.
230 Ky. 182, affirmed.

AYPEAL from a judgment of the Court of ,Ajpeals of
Kentucky which affirmed a judgment sustaining on appeal
an assessment made by a county board of tax supervisors.
Mr. Edmund F. Trabue, with whom Messrs. Junius C.

Klein, John P. Haswell, Blakey Helm, and John .
Mi~liken were on the brief, for appellant.
The State of the shareholder's domicile taxes his shares
on the assumption that every share represents an aliquot

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Argument for Appellant.

282 U.S.

•part'6o'all the property of the corporation, wherever situate. The assumption that the shares pre themselves
property, and property located within the State, is the
veriest and most mischievous fiction. Safe Deposit &
Trust Co. v. Virginia,280 U. S. 83.
Upon the assumption of the State's right to tax shares
of its citizens, regardless of the paternity of the corporation, or the location of its-property, the State has no just
right to tax the shares at a.rate in excess of the ratio of
property of the corporation within the State to all its
property in all the States, if at all. Bethlehem Motors
Co. v. Flynt, 256 U. S. 421. See Ward Baking Co. v.
Fernandino,29 F. (2d) 789; Campbell Baking Co. v. City,
19 F. (2d) 159.
The doctrine that a State has no jurisdiction to tax the
property of a foreign corporation situated outside the
State is now well established. Citing and discussing cases.
Upon principle, how could it ever have been supposed
that taxation of the corporation's property and taxation
also of the shares of its shareholders was not double taxation? It is especially in the imposition of multiple inheritance taxes that the absurdity has been most plainly
exposed; but such multiple taxation has been upheld upon
the -round that inheritance taxes were excises, and not
property taxes, and, consequently, not protected by the
Fourteenth Amendment. This doctrine was announced
in Magoun v. Illinois Trust & Savings Bank, 170 U. S.
283; Blackstone v. Miller, 188 U. S. 189, and in Wheeler v.
Sohmer, 233 U. S. 434; but this Court called a halt on
the extension of the doctrine in Frick v. Pennsylvania, 268
U. S. 473, and has now definitely condemned multiple
taxation in inheritance tax cases in FarmersLoan & Trust
Co. v. Minnesota, 280 U. S. 204, overruling Blackstone v.
Miller, supra.
Assuming the propriety of taxing shares and also taxing
the property of the corporation, the State of the share-'

KLEIN v. BOARD OF SUPERVISORS.
19

Argument for Appellant.

holder's domicile has no right arbitrarily to select those
corporations whose stockholders are to be taxed and omit
to tax the stockholders of the others. Middendorf v.
Goodale, 202 Ky. 118; Louisville Gas & E. Co. v. Coleman,
277 U. S. 32; Siler v. Board'of Supervisors, 221 Ky. 100.
That the statute under which the complaining stockholders were taxed discriminates agaimst them is illustrated by the history of legislation on the subject in
Kentucky. The first statute exempted the shares if the
corporation paid taxes on all its property in Kentuckyhow much or how little the corporation might have in
this State-provided the property was held for corporate
purposes; the next statute taxed the shares where the
corporation did not pay taxes in Kentucky on at least onefourth of its total property, and the present statute taxes
the shares except where the corporation pays taxes in
Kentucky on 75% or more of its total property. Obviously, the legislature took no note of any ratio between
the corporation's property in Kentucky and its property
elsewhere.
While a proper classification for taxation. might be reasonably based upon the ratio of net assets in the State to
total net assets, no proper classification can be based upon
gross assets. Gross assets mean nothing in such a problem..
Classification for taxation must rest upon some ground
of difference having a fair and substantial relation to the
object of the legislation. Stebbins v. Riley, 268 U. S. 137;
Air-Way Electric Co. v. Day, 266 U. S. 71; Liggett Co. v.
Baldridge,278 U. S. 105; Macallen,Co. v. Massachusetts,
279 U. S. 620; Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419; Flint
v. Stone-Tracy Co., 220 U. S. 107; Bekins Van Lines v.
Riley, 280 U. S. 80. Louisville Gas & E. Co. v. Coleman,
277 U. S. 32, and Quaker City Cab Co. v. Pennsylvania,
277 U. S. 389, are.decisive of this case. Distinguishing:
Flint v. Stone-Tracy Co., 220 U. S. 107; New York v.

22

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Cour.

282 U.S.

Latrobe, 279 U. S. 421; InternationalShoe Co. v. Shartel,
279 U. S. 429; White River L. Co. v. Arkansas, 279 U. S.
692; Kidd v. Alabama, 188 U. S. 730; Ohio Oil Co. v.
Conway, 281 U. S. 146.
Mr. M. B. Holifield, Assistant Attorney General of
Kentucky, with whom Messrs. J. W. Cammack, Attorney
General, and Samuel B. Kirby, Jr, Assistant Attorney
General, were on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JusTIcE HoLMES delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is an appeal from a judgment of the Court of
Appeals of Kentucky affirming the validity of a State tax
and the constitutionality of the statutes under which the
tax was imposed. 230 Ky. 182.
Holders of stock in a corporation generally are required
to list their shares for taxation, but it is provided that
"the individual stockholders of a corporation, at least
seventy-five per cent (75%) of whose total"property is
taxable in Kentucky, shall not be required to list their
shares for taxation so long as the corporation pays taxes
on all its property in Kentucky" &c. Kentucky Statutesj
§ 4088. Ed. Carroll, 1930. Acts 1924, c. 116, § 2 pp. 402,
406. The appellant contends that this section makes the
tax contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment. The appellant owned shares in the Standard Sanitary Manufacturing Company, a New Jersey corporation, les than
seventy-five per cent of whose total property wa 'taxable
in Kentucky. He was taxed as contemplated and he says
that the discrimination between himself and holders of
stock in a corporation paying taxes on more than seventyfive per cent of all their property is arbitrary and denies
to him the equal protection" of the laws.
This contention was so thoroughly disposed of by the
Court of Appeals that it is not necessary to deal with the

KLEIN v. BOARD OF SUPERVISORS.
19

Opinion of the Court.

argument for the appellees that if § 4088 is invalid the
general tax law stands unaffected and unqualified and the
appellant still must pay the tax. It will be enough to
present an abridgment of the considerations that prevailed. There is no doubt that a State may tax a corporation and also tax the holders of its stock. Tennessee v.
Whitworth, 117 U. S. 129, 136. The owners are different
and, although the-appellant calls it a mischievous fiction,
the property is different. While no doubt the property
and expectations of the corporation are the backbone of
the value of the shares, yet the latter may get additional
value from another source. In this case the appellant
alleges that the price of shares was much enhanced by
rumors of a stock dividend, which of course would have
added nothing to the property of the corporation. On the
other hand there is no constitutional obligation to tax both
the corporation and the holders of its stock. See Kidd v.
Alabama, 188 U. S. 730, 732. If the corporation having
all its property in the State has paid taxes upon the whole,
usually it would be just not to tax the stockholders in
respect of values derived from what already has borne its
share. And what would be true in the case supposed
would be- true when the corporation was paying for the
great body of its property although some small fraction
happened to be outside of the State. Thus we come to
the usual question of degree and of drawing a line where
no important distinction can be seen between the nearest
points on the two sides, but where the distinction between
the extremes is plain. Hudson County Water Co. v.
McCarter,209 U. S. 349, 355. Numerous illustrations are
cited by the Court below, e. g., McLean v. Arkansas, 211
U. S. 539, 551. Booth v. Indiana, 237 U. S. 391, 397.
Miller v. Strahl, 239 U. S. 426, 434.
We agree with the Court of Appeals that there could
have been no question if the statute had said ninety per
cent and that fixing seventy-five was equally plainly "a

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U.S.

reasonable effort to do justice to all in view of the way all
ourother assessments are made." "
The appellant, pursuing his notion that shares of stock
represent an interest in the property of the corporation,
insists that if taxed at all he should be taxed only in the
ratio of the property in the State to the entire property of
the corporation; that to tax him for the whole value is to
tax property outside of the jurisdiction of the State. But
it leads nowhere to call a corporation a fiction. If it is
a fiction it is a fiction created by law with intent that it
should be acted on as if true. The corporation is a person and its ownership is a nonconductor that makes it impossible to attribute an interest in its property to its
members. Donnell v. Herring-Hall-MarvinSafe Co., 208
U. S. 267, 273. The stockholders ii some circumstances
can call on the corporation to account, but that is a very
different thing from having an interest in the property
by means of which the corporation is enabled to settle
the account. The principle of justice that leads to the
exemption that has been dealt with could not be insisted
upon as a matter of constitutional right and it is reasonable for the legislature to confine it to well marked cases,
rather than to press it to a logical extreme. Of course it
does not matter here that in an earlier year the exemption
was greater than now.
It is alleged as a distinct point of objection, though perhaps less earnestly pressed, that appellant's stock was assessed at its full selling price whereas land was taxed at
seventy-five per cent of its sale value. There is nothing
in the Fourteenth Amendment that requires land and
stock to be taxed at ,the same rate or by the sane tests
and the Court of Appeals thinks that the Board of Tax
Commissioners "judged that seventy-five per cent of the
sale values represented about fairly the cash value of Teal
estate." Whether this be so or not we see no constitutional ground for complaint.
Judgment affirmed.

