BURNET v. SANFORD & BROOKS CO.
Syllabus.

BURNET, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE, v. SANFORD & BROOKS COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 31.

Argued December 5, 8, 1930.-Decided January 5, 1931.

1. In its income tax returns for 1913-16, the taxtayer included in
gross income for each year payments received in that year under
a dredging contract with the United States and deducted for
each year e. genditures made by the taxpayer during that year
in performing the contract. The sum of the expenditures exceeded
the sum of the payments received. The work was abandoned,
and, in 1920, as the result of a suit on the contract for breach of
warranty, tle taxpayer received from the United States as compensatory damages an amount equal to such excess. It did not
appear that the taxpayer ever filed returns on the accrual basis,
or otherwise sought the benefit of the statutory provision in that
regard or of Treasury regulations which, with respect to certain
long-term contracts, allowed report of all receipts and expenditures
on account of a particular contract in the year in which the work
was completed, or report each year of the estimated profit corresponding to estimated expenditures of that year. Held:
(1) That, under the Revenue Act of 1918, the money received
in 1920 was properly included by the Commissioner as part of
the gross income for that year in ascertaining the taxable income
for that year. P. 363.
(2) That a judgment in effect eliminating this money from the
1920 computation upon the condition that the taxpayer amend
the earlier returns by omitting therefrom the deductions of related
expenditures, was erroneous. P. 362 et seq.
2. Receipts from the conduct of a business enterprise are 'to be
included in the taxpayer's return as a part of gross income, regardless of whether the particular transaction results in net profit.
P. 364.
3.- The excess of gross income over deductions in this*case does not
any the less constitute net income for the taxable period because
the taxpayer, in an earlier- period, suffered net losses in its business which were in some measure attributable to expenditures made
to produce the net income of the later period. Id.

360

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Argument for Respondent.

282 U. S.

4. The familiar and practical system of taxing annually the net income resulting from all transactions within the tax year, rather than
the gains derived from particular transactions, is sustained by the
Sixteenth Anendment. P. 365.
35 F. (2d) 312, reversed.

-ERTi0RA i, 281 U. S. 707, to review a judgment- reversing an order of the Board of Tax Appeals which sustained an assessment of income and profits taxes.
Mr. Claude R. Branch, Special Assistant to the Attorney
--General, with whom Solicitor General Thacher, Assistant
Attorney General Youngquist, and Messrs. Sewall Key
and Andrew D. Sharpe, Special Assistants to the Attorney
General, Erwin IV.Griswold, and Clarence M. Charest,
General Counsel Bureau of Internal Revenue, and Prew
Savoy, Special Attorney, were on the brief, for petitioner.
'Mi.HarryN. Baetjer for respondent.
Income only can be taxed, and income implies gain.
Eisner v. Macomber, 252 U. S. 189; Doyle v. Mitchell
Bros. Co., 247 U. S.179; Inland Products Co. v. Blair,31
F. (2d) 867; Bowers v. Kerbaugh-Empire Co., 271 U. S.
170; Tennant v. Smith, A. C. 151; Marshall v. Commissioner of Internal Revenue, 10 B. T. A. 1140; United
States v." Supplee-Biddle Co., 265 U. S. 189; Merchants
Loan & T. Co. v. Smietanka, 255 U. S.509.
The judgment represents no payment at unit prices and
was in no sense a payment made pursuant to the contract
which provided for payment at a fixed price per cubic
yard.of earth removed. United States v. Atlantic Dredging Co,, 253 U. S. 2.
No requirement as to method of establishing income
subjeeit to tax can- convert a reimbursement into a gain.
Estoppel cannot prevail against respondent.
Since the jurisdiction of the Circuit CoUrt of Appeals
to render a decision requiring that amended returns be
filed for the years 1913-1916 eliminating the deduction

BURNET v. SANFORD & BRQOKS CO.
359

361

Opinion of the Court.

claimed in those years in aggregate amount equal to the
amount of the judgment, was questioned for the first time
in the petition for certiorari, this Court should refuse to

consider it.
Section 274 (g) of the Act of 1926 is not applicable to
the case, and the Circuit Court of Appeals had jurisdiction to render its decision directly affecting tax liability
for the years 1913 to 1916.
Messrs. CharlesD. Hamel, RichardS. Doyle, and Braiard Avery, by special leave of Court, filed a brief as amid
curiae.
AT. JUSTICE STOZiE delivered the opinion of the Court.
In this case certiorari was granted, 281 U. S. 707, to review a judgment of the Court of Appeals for the Fourth
Circuit, 35 F. (2d) 312, reversing an order of the Board of
Tax Appeals, 11 B. T. A. 452, which had sustained the action of the Commissioner of Internal Revenue in making
a deficiency assessment against respondent for income and
profits taxes for the year 1920.
From 1913 to 1915, inclusive, respondent, a Delaware
corporation engaged in business for profit, was acting for
the Atlantic Dredging Company in carrying out a contract for dredging the Delaware River, entered into by
that company with the United States. In making its income tax returns for the years 1913 to 1916, respondent
added to gross income for each year the payments made.
under the contract that year and deducted its expenses
paid that year in performing the contract. The total expenses exceeded the payments received by $176,271.88.
The tax returns for 1913, 1915 and 1916 showed net losses.
That for 1914 showed net income.
In 1915 work under the contract was abandoned, and
in 1916 suit was brought in the Court of Claims to recover
for a breach of warranty of the character of the material

362

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

to be dredged. Judgment for the claimant, 53 Ct. Cis.
490, was affirmed by this Court in 1920. United States v.
Atlantic Dredging Co., 253 U. S. 1. It held that the recovery was upon the contract and was "compensatory of
the cost of the work, of which the government got*the
benefit." From the total recovery, petitioner received in
that year the sum of $192,577.59, which included the
$176,271.88 by which its expenses under the contract had
exceeded receipts from it, and accrued interest amounting
to $16,305.71. Respondent having failed to include these
amounts as gross income in its tax returns for 1920, the
Commissioner made the deficiency assessment here involved, based on the addition of both items to gross income -forthat year.
The Court of Appeals ruled that only the item of interest was properly included, holding, erroneously as the
government contends, that the item of $176,271.8S was a
return of losses suffered by respondent in earlier years and
hence was wrongly assessed as income. Notwithstanding
this- conclusion, its judgment of reversal and the conse-,
quent elimination of this item from gross income for 1920
were made contingent upon the filing by respondent of
amended returns for the years 1913 to 1916, from which
were to be omitted the deductions of the related items of
expenses paid in those, years. Respondent insists that
as the Sixteenth Amendment and the Revenue Act of
1918, which was in force in 1920, plainly contemplate a
tax only on net income or profits, any application of the
statute which operates to impose a tax with respect to the
present transaction, from which respondent received no
profit, cannot be upheld.
If respondent's contention that only gain or profit may
be taxed under the Sixteenth Amendment be accepted
without qualification, see Eisner v. Macomber, 252 U. S.
189, Doyle v. Mitchell Brothers Co7,247 U. S. 179, the
question remains whether the gain or profit which is the

BURNET v. SANFORD & BROOKS CO.
359

Opinion of the Court.

subject of the tax may be ascertained, as here, on the
basis of fixed accounting periods, or whether, as is pressed
upon us, it can only be net profit ascertained on the basis
of particular transactions of the taxpayer when they are
brought to a conclusion.
All the revenue acts which have been enacted since the
adoption of the Sixteenth Amendment have uniformly
assessed the tax on the basis of annual returns shbwing
the net result of all the taxpayer's transactions during a
fixed accounting period, either the calendar year, or, at the
option of the taxpayer, the particular fiscal year which he
may adopt. Under §§ 230, 232 and 234 (a) of the Revenue Act of 1918, 40 Stat. 1057, respondent was subject
to tax upon its annual net income, arrived at by deducting from gross income for each taxable year all the ordinary and necessary expenses paid during that year in carrying on any trade or business, interest and taxes paid,
and losses sustained, during the year. By §§ 233 (a) and
213 (a) gross incomie " includes . . . income derived
from

.

.

.

businesses

.

.

.

or the transaction of

any business carried on for gain or profit, or gains or
profits and income derived from any source whatever."
The amount of all such items is required to be included
in the gross income for the taxable year in which received
by the taxpayer, unless they may be, properly accounted.
for on the accrual basis under § 212 (b). See United
States v. Anderson, 269 U. S. 422; Aluminum Castings
Co. v. Routzahn, ante, p. 92.
That the recovery made by respondent in 1920 was
gross income for that year within the meaning of these
sections cannot, we think, be doubted. The money received was derived from a contract entered into in the
course of respondent's business operations for profit.
While it equalled, and in a loose sense was a return of,
expenditures made in performing the contract, still, as
the Board of Tax Appeals found, the expenditures were

364

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

made in defraying the expenses incurred in the prosecution of the work under the contract, for the purpose of
earning profits. They were not capital investments, the
cost of which, if converted, must first be rest6red from
the proceeds before there is a capital gain taxable as income. See Doyle v. Mitchell Brothers Co., supra, p. 185.
That such receipts from the conduct of a business enterprise are to be included in the taxpayer's return, as a
part of gross income, regardless of whether the particular
transaction results-in net profit, sufficiently appears from
the quoted words of § 213 (a) and from the character of
the deductions allowed. Only by including these items
of gross income in the 1920 return would it have been
possible to ascertain respondent's net income for the period covered by the return, which is what the statute
taxes. The excess of gross income over deductions did
not any the less constitute net income for the taxable
period because respondent, in an earlier- period, suffered
net losses in the conduct of its business which were in
some measure attributable to expenditures made to produde the net income of the later period.
Bowers v. Kerbaugh-Empire Co., 271 U. S. 170, on
which respondent relies, does not support its position. In
that cage the taxpayer, which had lost, in business, borrowed money, which,was to be repaid in German marks,
andwhich Was later repaid in depreciated currency, had
neither made a profit on the transaction, nor received any
money or property which could have been made subject
to the tax.
But respondent insists that if the sum which it recovered is the income defined by the statute, still it is not
income, taxation of which without apportionment is permitted by the Sixteenth Amendment, since the particular
transaction from which it was derived did not result in
any net gain or profit. But we do not think the amendment is to be so narrowly construed. A taxpayer may be
in receipt of net income in one year and not in another.

BURNET v. SANFORD & BROOKS CO.
359

365

Opiniou of the Court.

The net result of the two years, if 'combined in a single
taxable period, might still be a loss; but it has, never been
supposed that that fact would relieve him from a tax on
the first, or that it affords .any reason for postponing the
assessment of the tax until the end of a lifetime, or for
some other indefinite period, to ascertain.more precisely
whether the final outcome of the period, or of a given
transaction, will be a gain or -a loss.
The Sixteenth Amendment was adopted to enable the
government to raise revenue by taxation. It is the essence
of any system of taxation that it should produce revenue
ascertainable, and payable to the government, at regular
intervals. Only by such a system is it practicable to'produce a regular flow of income and apply methods of accounting, assessment, and collection capable of practical,
operation. It is not suggested that there has ever been
any general scheme for taxing income on any other basis.
The computation of income annually as the net result of
all transactions within the year was a familiar practice,
and taxes upon income so arrived at were not unknown,
before the Sixteenth Amendment. See Bowers v. Kerbaugh-Empire Co., supra,p. 174; PacificInsurance Co. v.
Soule, 7 Wall. 433; Pollock v. Farmers'Loan & Trust Co.,
158 U. S., 601, 630. It is not to be supposed that the
amendment did not contemplate that Congress might
make income so ascertained the basis of a scheae of taxation such as had been in actual operation within the
United States before its adoption. While, conceivably, a
different system might be devised by which the tax could
be assessed, wholly or in part, on the basis of the finally
ascertained results of particular transactions, Congress is
not required by the amendment to adopt such a system
in preference to the more familiar method, even if it were
practicable. It would not necessarily obviate the kind of
inequalities of which respondent complains. If losses
from particular transactions were -to be set off against

366

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U.S.

gains in others, there would still be the practical necessity
of computing the tax on the basis of annual or other fixed
taxable periods, which might result in the taxpayer being
required to pay a tax on income in one period exceeded by
net losses in another.
Under the statutes and regulations in force in 1920, two
methods were provided by which, to a limited extent, the
expenses of a transaction incurred in one year might be
offset by the amounts actually received from it in another.
One was by returns on the accrual basis under § 212 (b),
which provides that a taxpayer keeping accounts upon
any basis other than that of actual receipts and disbursements, unless such basis does not clearly reflect its income,
may, subject to regulations of the Commissioner, make
its return upon the basis upon which its books are kept.
See United States v. Anderson, and Aluminum Castings
Co. v. Routzahn, supra. The other was under Treasury
Regulations (Art. 121 of Reg. 33 of Jan. 2, 1918, under
the Revenue Acts of 1916 and 1917; Art. 36 of Reg. 45,
Apr. 19, 1919, under the Revenue Act of 1918) providing
that in reporting the income derived from'certain long
term contracts, the taxpayer might either report all of the
receipts and all of the expenditures made on account of a
4 c6ntract in the year in which the work was
particuldi
completed, or report in each year the percentage of the
estimated profit corresponding to the percentage of the
total estimated expenditures which was made in that year.
The Court of Appeals said that the case of the respondent here fell within the spirit of these regulations. But
the court did not hold, nor does respondent assert, that it
ever filed returns in compliance either with these regulations, or § 212 (b), or otherwise attempted to avail itself
of their provisions; nor on this record do any facts appear
tending to support the burden, resting on the taxpayer, of
establishing that the Commissioner erred in failing to

WHITE v. JOHNSON.
359

367

Syllabus.

apply them. See Niles Bement Pond Co. v. United States,
281 U. S. 357, 361.
The assessment was properly made under the statutes.
Relief from their alleged burdensome operation which
may not be secured under these provisions, can be afforded
only by legislation, not by the courts.
Reversed.

WHITE v. JOHNSON ET AL.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 29.

Argued December 5, 1930.-Decided January 5, 1631.

1. Upon.certificate the Court will not answer questions of objectionable generality; and a question is improper which is so broad and
indefinite as to admit of one answer under one set of circumstances
and a different answer under another. P. 371.
2. A question certified which inquires merely whether the, employment
of tangible property in an existing business begets in the proprietor a "property" in the continuance of the business, within'
the meaning of that word as used in the .Fifth Amendment, is too
broad and indefinite, and need not be answered. P. 371.
3. The Court is not required to answer questions certified which are
contingent upon an affirmative response to another question which
it has declined to answer. P. 372.
4. Where the answer to a question certified involves merely an
examination of an Act of Congress and a determination whether
on its face it violates the Fifth Amendment, it is an academic
question, which neither this Court nor the court below is authorized
to answer. P. 373;
5. Where a question certified, which involves the validity of the
Radio Act of 1927, in respect of its alleged failure to provide a
specific method of procedure or to furnish a standard of conduct
for the Commission in the matter of applications for renewids of
broadcasting licenses, is so framed that to answer it the Court
would have to treat the proceedings before the Commission ii
the complainant's case as irrelevant, to disregard the Commission's
interpretation of the language of the Act as applied to him under

