EDUCATIONAL FILMS CORP. v. WARD.
375

Syllabus.

called-Revenue Act of 1918 was not.passed until February, 1919, and made changes in the rates. But the 1917
act was in force, and required the payment of the same
sort of taxes, and petitioner concedes it accrued its taxes
for 191-8 and set them up in a reserve at the end of the
year. The Act of 1918 was retroactive and replaced the
prior act of.October 3, 1917, and taxpayers understood that
the policy of the United States with respect to income
and profits tax was continuous. In February, 1919, the
Treasury promulgated Decision 2791, applicable to the
1917 Act, and in substance the same as Article 845, which
was issued under the 1918 Act on April 17, 1919. The
taxes in question were provided for by an act passed in
February, 1919, but they were for the year 1918. The act
was passed in ample time to allow the taxpayer to readjust its accounts for that year by including these taxes;
and, since its books were kept on an accrual basis, it was
necessary that this should be done in order clearly to
reflect the income for 1918.
United States v. Woodward, 256 U. S. 632, on which
petitioner relies, is clearly distinguishable on the grounds
stated in United States v. Anderson, 269 U. S. 422, 441.
We cannot hold that the regulation on which the Commissioner relied was unreasonable or in conflict with the
provisions of the statute. The judgment is
Affirmed.

OF
CORPORATION
FILMS
EDUCATIONAL
AMERICA v. WARD, ATTORNEY GENERAL OF
NEW YORK, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 350. Argued December 1, 1930.-Decided January 12, 1931.
A New York statute taxes each domestic orporation of certain classes
"for the privilege of exercising its fialichise in this State." The
tax-is payable in advance for each year beginning November 1st,

80

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Syllabus.

282 U. S.

and'is at a specified rate on so much of the corporation's entire
net income for its preceding fiscal year as is, under other provi"sions, allocated to its business carried on within the State. 'Net
income is defined, by amendments, as embracing income from any
source, and entire net income as meaning the total net income,
"including all dividends received on stocks and all interest received
from federal, state, municipal or other bonds." The income upon
which the tax was measured in the present case was derived in
part as royalties from copyrights granted by the United Stales.
Held:
1. Assuming that federal copyrights and the income therefrom
are immune from state taxation as instrumentalities of the federal
government, the tax here, in so 'far as measured by income from
the copyright royalties, is not void as a tax on federal instrumentalities. P. 386, et seq.
2. Te nature of the-tax inust be determined by its operation
rather than by particular descriptive language applied to it. P. 387.
3. Since the tax 'can be levied only where the corporation both
seeks, or exerc~es, the privilege of doing business in one year
and has been in receipt of 'net income during its preceding fiscal
year, the tax, obviously, is nob exclusively on income apart from
the franchise. P. 388.
4. The state power to tax corporate franchises and the immunity of federal instrumentalities from taxation, should be given
such a practical construction as vill not unduly restrict the power
of the government imposing the tax, or the exercise of the functions of the government which may be affected by it. Pp. 388, 391.
5. There is a logical and practical distinction between a tax
laid directly upon all of any class of government instrumentalities,
which the Constitution impliedly forbids, and a tax such as the
present, which can in no case have any incidence unless the taxpayer enjoys a privilege which is a proper object of taxation, and
which would not be open to question if its amount were arrived
at by any other non-discriminatory method. P. 391.
6. The rule that a non-discriminatory tax upon corporate
franchises is valid, notwithstanding "the inclusion of tax-exempt
property or income in the measure of it, is applicable to this case,
since it can not be said that the present tax, viewed .in the light
of actualities, imposes 4any such real or direct burden on the
federal government as to call for the application of a different
rule. P. 392.

EDUCATIONAL FILMS CORP. v. WARD.
379

Argument for Appellant.

7. The rule applied in Macallen CJo. v. Massachusetts is inapplicable here, because there is nothing to show that the tax was
aimed at copyrights, the royalties being included merely because
of the general language of the statute as it'was before the reference
to federal bonds was introduced by amendment. P. 393.

41 F. (2d) 395, affirmed.
APPEAL from a decree dismissing the bill in a suit to
enjoin the New York Tax Commission from collecting a
tax on the appellant corporation.

Messrs. Benjamin P. Dewitt and Roger Hinds,-with
whom Mr. Siegfried F. Hartman was on the brief, for
appellant.
Since the income upon which the disputed tax is based
consists of royalties from United States copyrights, it is
immune from taxation by the State. McCidloch v.
Maryland,4 Wheat. 316, 432; People ex rel. Edison-Co.v.
Assessors, 156 N. Y. 417; People ex rel. N. Y. Tel. Co.
v. Neff, 15 App. Div. 8, 13, affirmed 156 N. Y. 701.
People ex rel. Aluminum Co. v. Knight, 174 N. Y. 475;
Long v.Rockwood, 277 U. S. 142.
The tax, particularly when considered from the standpoint of immunity of federal instrumentalities, is in substance and effect, and in practical operation, a tax on
income. People ex rel. Alpha Portland Cement Co. v.
Knapp, 230 N. Y. 48, 57, 62; Macallen Co.v. Massachusetts, 279 U. S. 620, 629; Weston v. Charleston,2 Pet. 449;
De La Vergne Co. v. Tax Commission, 211 App. Div. 227,
affirmed 241 N. Y. 517. Distinguishing: People ex rel.
Bass, Ratcliff & Gretton v. Tax Commission,232 N. Y. 42,
affirmed 266 U. S.271.
The decisions of this Court with respect to the Wisconsin and Massachusetts corporation excise taxes show
that there is no inconsistency in holding (as the New
York courts have done) that a given tax may be for a
privilege and still, in substance and effect, be a tax on

382

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Argument for Appellant.

282 U. S.

income. Northwestqrn Ins. Co. v. Wisconsin, 247 U. S.
132; Northwestern Ins. Co. v. Wisconsin, 275 U. S. 136;
Alpha Portland,Cement Co. v. Massachusetts, 268 U. S.
203; Baltic Mining Co. v. Massachusetts, 231 U. S. 68;
S. S. White Dental Co. v. Commonwealth, 212 Mass. 35;
Macallen Co. v. Massachusetts, 264 Mass. 396, s. c. 279
U. S. 620, 634. Cf. Aberdeen Savings & L. Assn. v. Tax
Commission, 57 Wash. 255; Quicksafe Mfg. Corp. v.
Graham (Tenn.), 29 S. W. (2d) 253.
Under the authority of the Macallen case, Article 9-A
of the tax law is unconstitutional in so far as the tax is
based on income from federal instrumentalities. Cf.
Quicksafe Mfg. Corp. v. Graham,supra.
The New York tax cannot, we submit, be an excise as
to income from some federal instrumentalities and an
income tax as to dthers.
An attempt to distinguish the New York tax from the
Massachusetts tax passed on in the Macallen case is, that
the income upon which the tax is based under the New
York law is that for the preceding calendar or fiscal year.
Under the New .York law the tax is payable each year in
advance for the year beginning November 1st. Thus,
in paying its tax in New York a corporation is paying a
tax for the succeeding year based on its income for the
preceding year. It might well be argued that this elabrate and artificial separation of income year. from tax
., ear indicates that the New York legislature in framingthe tax law was deliberately trying to conceal the fact
that it intended to tax all income-including exempt income. Suffice it to say that, under the tax laws held unconstitutional in Washington and Tennessee, the income
upon which the tax is based is, as under the New York
law, that of the preceding year, and the Supreme Court
of each of those States, nevertheless, held the tax unconstitutional in so far as it reached exempt income. So,

EDUCATIONAL FILMS CORP. v. WARD.
379

Argument for Appellant.

too, in California, the income upon which the tax is based
is that of the preceding year and yet the State Board
of Equalization expressed the opinion that the tax is
unconstitutional.
There are at least four considerations not applicable
-to the Massachusetts tax indicating that the New York
tax is a tax on income and not an excise or franchise tax:
(1) The New York law itself uses various expressions
indicating that it is essentially a tax on income. (2) In
Massachusetts the highest court held that the tax was
an excise and not an income tax. (3) The Massachusetts
tax is collectible only when the corporation has in fact
been engaged in doing business during the taxable year.
By contrast, the New York tax is levied upon every domestic business corporation, regardless of whether or not
the privilege is availed of. People v. Jersawit, 263 U. S.
493. (4) In Massachusetts the tax is measured only in
part by net income.
The decisions in Flint v. Stone Tracy Co., 220 U. S.
107, and earlier cases, are inapplicable to the statute here
involved. The tax in the Flint case was a special excise
tax.. It wes not, like the New York tax, one variously
denominated "a tax based on indome" or "a tax upon
entire net income," payable for the privilege of exercising
a franchise and declared by the courts to be "in practical
operation a tax on income." Neither the statutory language nor any court decision admitted of any characterization of the tax in the Flint case as a tax on income,
even an indirect one.
Furthermore, unless the tax in the Flint case had been,
of a certainty, an excise, and by no possibility a tax of
income even "in substance and effect," if would have been
void in toto-for at that time (1909) the Sixteenth
Amendment had not been adopted.

384

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U.S.

Among the later decisions of this Court referred to in
the Macallen case as preserving the immunity from state
taxation, of federal instrumentalities, are the following:
Gillespie v. Oklahoma, 257 U. S. 501, 505; Clallam County
v. United States, 263 'U. S. 341; Jaybird Mining Co. v.
Weir, 271 U. S. 609; Northwestern Ins. Co. v. Wisconsin,
275 U. S. 136; MillerY. Milwaukee, 272 U. S. 713; Panhandle Oil Co. v. Mississippi,277 U. S. 218; Long v. Rockwood, 277 U. S. 142; National Ins. Co. v. United States,
277 U. S. 508; State ex rel. Mo. Ins. Co. v. Gehner, 281
U. S. 313.
In the Macalen case the New York Tax Commission
(appellees in the present case) filed a brief, as amid curiae,
insisting that whatever decision should be reached would
"doubtless apply, with like force to the State of, .New
York." The. States of Washington and California, were
also among those States which, as amici curiae, filed briefs
in support of the petition for re-hearing in the Macallen
case. Cf. Aberdeen Savings & L. Assn. v. Tax Commission, 57 Wash. 225; Quicksafe Mfg. Corp. v. Graham,"29
S. W. (2d) 253.
The fact that the basis of the tax is net income rather
than gross income does not justify the inclusion of income
from federal instrumentalities.
Mr. Wendell P. Brown, Assistant Attorney General of
New York, with whom Mr. Hamilton Ward, Attorney
o General, was on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JusficE SToNE delivered the opinion of the Court.

This is an appeal under § 238 of the Judicial Code from.
a decree of a District Court of three judges for Southern
New York, 41 F. (2d) 395, which dismissed, on the merits,
the bill of complaint by which appellant, a New York
corporation, sought to restrain appellees, the New York
State Tax Commission, from the collection of a tax, on

EDUCATIONAL FILMS CORP. v. WARD.

385

Opinion of the Court.

379

the ground that the taxing statute, as applied, infringes
the federal Constitution.
Section 209 1 of Article 9-A of the New York Tax Law
lays an annual tax on every domestic. corporation of certain classes "for the privilege of exercising its franchise
in this state in a corporate or organized capacity." The
tax is payable in advance for each year beg'ining November 1st, and is at the rate of 42% of so much of the corporation's entire net income for its preceding fiscal year
as is, under other sections, allocated to the business carried
1 § 209. [Laws N. Y. 1929, c. 385.] Franchise tax on corporations
based on net income. For the privilege of exercising its franchise
in this state in a corporate or organized capacity every domestic
corporation, and for the privilege of. doing business in this state,
every foreign corporation, except corporations specified in the next
section, shall annually pay in advance for the year beginning November first next succeeding the first day of July in each and every
year an annu4 franchise tax, to be computed by the tax commission
upon the bais of its entire net income, as defined in subdivision
three of section two hundred and eight of the tax law, for its fiscal
or the calendar year next preceding, as hereinafter provided, which
entire net income is presumably the same as the entire net inncome

which such corporation is required to report to the United States,
plus any income received as dividends on stocks or any interest

received on bonds of any character, and without deduction for taxes
paid on either profits -or net income to the government of the
United States or for any specific deduction allowed by any other
authority, except that the entire net income of a corporation not
organized under the laws of any state within the 'United States
which shall be taken as the basis of computation by the tax commission shall be the entire net income in fact and determined as
hereinbefore provided rather than the amount earned in the United
States or the amount returned to the United States Treasury
Department, or as otherwise provided by section two hundred and
fourteen of the tax law. However, in determining the entire net
income, for purposes of equitable taxation under this article of
the tax law, the tax commission may include income from any
source, provided only that the assets from which the income arose
shall be included in any segregation for the purpose of computing
the tax.
22110*31-25

386

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

on within the state. By § 209 the net income embraces
"ihcome from any source," and "is presumably the same
as the entire net income" reported for income taxation to
the United States, "plus ... dividends on stocks or any
interest received on bonds of any character." Subdivision
3 of § 208 provides: "The term 'entire net incdine'
means the total net income, including all dividends received on stocks and all interest received from federal,
state, municipal or other bonds .. , ." Appellant's bill of
complaint sets up that during its fiscal year ending June
30, 1929, it was the owner of copyrights granted by the
United States upon motion picture films, and had received
royalties from the licensing of them. It challenges the
tax Assessed against it under the statute, for the year beginning November 1, 1929, so far as it is measured by the
amount of the royalties.
Appellant's contention is based on two propositions,
both essential to its conclusion that the tax. is invalid.
They are, first, that the copyrights and all income derived
from them are immune from state taxation since they,
like patents, are instrumentalities of the federal government, taxation of which the Constitution impliedly forbids, see Long v: Rockwood, 277 U. S. 142; and, second,
that the present tax, measured by net income, is void, so
far as the measure includes income from the copyrights,
because a tax on federal instrumentalities. 2
For present purposes it is enough if we direct our attention to the second proposition. At the outset appellant
contends that the tax, although stated in the taxing ac t
2

The equity jurisdiction to enjoin collection of -the tax is not

challenged. The legal remedy provided by the statute for the
recovery, of taxes after payment falls short of adequacy in at least
two. respects. Refund, if any, is expressly without interest. § 219 (d).
See Procter & Gamble Distribyting Co. v. Shern4, 2.F. (2d) 165;
Southern. daifornia Telephone Co. v. Hopkins, 13 F. (2d). 814, 820,
aff'd. 2"!5 -U.S. ?93, If judicial review of the action of the state

EDUCATIONAL FILMS CORP. v. WARD.
379

Opinion of the Court.

to be on corporate franchises, is in reality a tax on income,
and as such falls within the class of taxes which concededly
may not be directly imposed on federal instrumentalities.
In support of the contention, it points to the language of
the statute, (§§ 214 (a) and 214 (8), dealing with the
pomputation of the tax), and to an opinion of the New
York Court of Appeals, (Alpha Portland Cement Co. v.
Knapp, 230 N. Y. 48, 57), which refer to the tax as one
"upon income."
So far as these considerations are of weight, they are
counterbalanced by the later pronouncement of the same
court in People ex rel. Bass, Ratelifi & Gretton v. Tax
although we have
Commission, 232 N. Y. 42, 46: "...
said in another connection (People ex rel. Alpha P. C. Co.
v. Knapp, supra, p. 57) that 'the tax imposed upon this
franchise must be held in practical operation to be a
tax upon the income . . . This tax is equivalent to a
tax upon relator's income,' it is primarily a tax levied for.
the privilege of doing business in the state."
But the nature of a tax must be determined by its
operation rather than by particular descriptive language
which may have been applied to it. As was said in
Macallen Co.v. Massachusetts, 279 U. S. 620, 625, 626,
a. .. neither state courts nor legislatures, by giving the
tax a particular name, or by using some form of words,
can take away our duty to consider its nature and effect.
this Court must determine for itself by independent
S1.*.
inquiry whether the tax here is what, in form and by the
decision of the state court, it is declared to be . . . " On
tax commission in assessing the tax results in a determination that

such a6tion was illegal, the statute calls for the credit of so much
of the tax as was illegally exacted, or refund at the direction of
the commission. But it is at least doubtful whether any refund
can be compelled. § 219 (d). See Gorham Mfg. Co. v. Travis,

274 Fed. 975, aff'd. 266 U. S. 265; Dawson v. Kentucky Dsilleries
Co., 255 U. S.288, 295, 296.

388

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

'282 U. S.

appeal from the state court in People ex rel. Bass, Ratcliff
&'Gretton.v. Tax Commision, supra, this Court upheld
the tix anddefined its nature, saying, 266 U. S. 271, 280:
"It is'not a direct tax upon the allocatec&income of the
corporation in a given year,, but a tax for the privilege
of doing business, in one year measured by the, allodated
income accruing from -the busines in the preceding year.
.See New-York v. Jersawit, 263 U. S. 493, 496." See also
Home Insurance Co. v. New York, 134 U. S.594; People
ex rel. United States Aluminum Printing Plate Co. v.
Knight, 174 N. Y. 475; Anderson v. Forty-two Broadway
Co', 239 U. S.69.
If we look to the operation of the present statute, it is
plain that it can haveno application independent of the
ccorporation's enjoyment of the privilege of exercising its
-franchise. If appellant had ceased to do business before
November 1, 1929, it would not Jave been subject to anytax under this statute, although it had received, duriig
its preceding fiscal year, income which the statute makes
the measure of the tax. Since it can be leved only when
the corporation both seeks or exercises the privilege of
'.doing business in one year and has been in receipt of net
income during its preceding fiscal year, the tax, whatever
descriptive terms are properly applicable to it, obviously
is not exclusively on income apart from .the franchise.
.Hence we pass to the chief objection urged against it, that
such a tax, however described, and even though deemed
to be a t~x on franchises, is invalid so far as it is measured
by income derived from' a federal instrumentality.
Under the Constitution the privilege of exercising the
corporate franchise is the legitimate object, and the immunity of federal instrumentalities from taxation, a legitimate restriction, of the state power to tax. To give both
to the power and to the immunity such a practical construction as will not unduly restrict the power of the
government imposing the tax, or the exercise of the fune-

EDUCATIONAL FILMS CORP. v. WARD.
379

389

Opinion of the Court.

tions of the government which may be affected by it, is
*the problem necessarily involved in determining the
extent of. the immunity. See Metcalf & Eddy v. Mitchell,
269 U. S. 514, 523, 524. So far as it concerns the power
of a state to impose a tax on corporate franchises, the
problem has long since ceased to be novel. While this
Court, since McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, has
consistently held that the, instrumentalities of either government, or the income derived from them, may not be
made the direct object of taxation by the other, Weston
v. City Council of Charleston,2 Pet. 449; Dobbinsv. Commissioners of Erie County, 16 Pet. 435; Home Savings
Bank v. Des Moines, 205 U. S. 503; Indian Oil Co. v.
Oklahoma,240 U. S. 522; FederalLand Bank v. Crosland,
261 U. S. 374, it has held with like consistency that the
priviInge of exercising the corporate franchise is no less
an appropriate object of taxation by one government
merely because the corporate property or net income,
which is made the measure of the tax, may chance to in.clude :the obligations of the other, or the income derived
from then The constitutional power of one government
to reach this permissible'object of taxation may not be
curtailed because of the indirect effect which the tax may
have upon the other.
The precise question now presented was definitely
answered in Flint v. Stone Tracy Co., 220 U. S. 107, 162,
et seq., which upheld a federal tax, levied upon a corporate
franchise granted by a state, but measured by the entire
corporate income, including, in that case, income from
tax exempt municipal bonds. In reaching this conclusion, the Court reaffirmed the distinction, repeatedly
made in earlier decisions, between a tax, invalid because
laid directly on governmental instrumentalities or income
derived from them, and an excise which is valid becanse
imposed on corporate franchises, even though the corporate property or income which is the measure of the

390

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

tax embraces tax exempt securities or their income. See
Society for Savings v. Coite, 6 Wall. 594; ProvidentInstituton y. Massachusetts, 6 Wall. 611; Hamilton (o. v.
Massachusetts,"6Wall. 632; Home Insurance Co. v. New
York, supra.
Upon a like principle other forms of excise tax have been
upheld, although the statutory measure of the tax included securities constitutionally immune from any form
of direct taxation. A state inheritance or legacy tax is
valid, although measured by the value of United States.
bonds which are transmitted. Plummer v. Coler, 178,
U. S. 115. See also Orr v. Gilman, 183 U. S. 278; Blodgett
'v. Silberman, 277 U. S. 1; cf. Greiner y. Lewellyn, 258
U. S. 384; Willcuts, Collector,v. Bunn,' ante, p. 216. By
parity of reasoning an inheritance tax may be levied by
a state on a bequest to the United States, United States
v. Perkins, 163 U. S. 625, and by the United States on a
bequest to a municipality. Sinyder v. Bettman, 190 U. EF
249. Similarly, state laws, taxing to stockholders, at
full value,, shares in national banks, are upheld, although
the banks own tax exempt United States .bonds. Van
Allen v. Assessors, 3 Wall. 573, 583; People v. Commissioners, 4 Wall. 244, 255; Peoples NationalBank of Kingfisher v. Board of Equalization,260 U. S. 702; Des Moines
National Bank v. Fairweather,263 U. S. 103, 112 et seq.
A tax on net income is not a forbidden tax on exports
because it includes receipts from exports in the computation of the income, Peck & Co. v. Lowe, 247 U. S. 165;
Barclay'& Co. v. Edwards, 267 U. S. 442; nor is the
inclusion in a state income tax of receipts from interstate
commerce a prohibited burden on commerce United
"States Glue' Co. v. Oak Creek, 247 U. S. 321; Shaffer v.
Carter,252 U. S. 37, 57; cf. InterboroughRapid Transit
Co. v. Sohmer, 237 U. S. 276, 283, 284. It has been held
that a state tax upon the franchise of'.a corporation,

EDUCATIONAL FILMS CORP. v. WARD.
379

Opinion of the Court.

measured by its receipts from transportation, properly
apportioned to the business done within the state, is
valid, although including receipts from interstate commerce. Maine v. Grand Trunk Ry. Co., 142 U. S. 217;
cf. Galveston, Harrisburg & San Antonio Ry. Co. v.
Texas, 210 U. S. 217. A state may not tax tangible
property located beyond its boundaries, Union Transit
Co. v. Kentucky, .199 U. S. 194; but it may measure a tax
on franchises of domestic corporations by corporate property, even though without the state. Kansas City, F. S.
& M. Ry. Co. v. Kansas, 240 U. S. 227; Cream of Wheat
Co. v. Grand Forks, 253 U. S. 325. So well settled is
this last mentioned application of the doctrine that an
excise may be measured by tax-immune property, that an
appeal in which such a tax was assailed on the very
grounds urged here, was dismissed per curiam during the
present term.' Nebraska ex rel. Beatrice Creainery Co.
v. Marsh, post, p. 799.
It is said that there is no logical distinction between a
tax laid on a proper object of taxation, measured by a
subject matter which is immune, and a tax of like amount
imposed directly on the latter; but it may be said with
greater force that there is a logical and practical distinction between a tax laid directly upon all of any class of
government instrumentalities, which the Constitution
impliedly forbids, and a tax such as the present which can
in no case have any incidence, unless the taxpayer enj6ys
a privilege which is a proper object of taxation, and which
would not be open to question if its amount were arrived
at by any other non-discriminatory method.
This Court, in drawing the line which defines the limits
of the powers and immunities of state and national governments, is not intent upon a mechanical application of
the rule that government instrumentalities are immune
from taxation,. regardless of the consequences to the op-

392

OCTOBER TERM, -1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

erations of government. The necessity for marking those
boundaries grows out of our Constitutional system, under
which both the'federal and the state governments exercise their authority over one people within the territorial
limits of the same state. The purpose is the preservation
to each government, within its own sphere, of the freedom
to carry on those affairs committed to it by the Constitution, without'undue interference by ihe other. McCulloch v. Maryland,supra, p. 405; The Collectorv. Day,
11 Wall. 113, 125; Railroad Co. v. Peniston, 18 Wall. 5,
31; South Carolinav. United States, 199 U. S. 437, 461;
Flint v. Stone Tracy Co., supra, pp. 154, 172; Metcalf &
Eddy v. Mitchell, supra,pp. 523, 524.
Having in mind the end sought, we cannot saythat the
rule applied by this Court for some seventy years, that a
non-discriminatory tax upon corporate franchises is valid,.
notwithstanding the inclusion of tax exempt property or.
income ip-the measure of it, has failed of its purpose, or
has worked so badly as to require a departure from it now;
or that the present tax, viewed in the light of actualities,
iiposes any such real or direct burden on the federal
government as to call for the application of a different
rule.
The decision of this Court in Macallen Co. v. Massachusetts, supra, upon which appellant relies, was not such a
departure. That case did not overrule Flint v. Stone
Tracy Co., supra. . Instead, the opinion rested the decision
on the distinguishing fact that the tax exempt securities
were included in the measure of the franchise tax by vir-"
tue of an amendment to the taxin statute which, it was
held, Was specifically intended to reach the income from
tax exempt national and municipal bonds which had previously not been included in the measure of the tax. The
-case was thus brought within the purview of 'Miller v.
Milwaukee, 272 -U.S. 713, in which this Court had stated,
with respect to a state tax on income, no franchise or

EDUCATIONAL FILMS CORP. v. WARD.
379

Opinion of the Court.

privilege tax being involved [p. 715]: "If the avowed
purpose or self-evident operation of a statute is.to follow
thd bonds of the United States and to make up for its
inability to reach them 'directly by indifectly achieving
the same result, the statute must fail- even if but'for its
purpose or special operation it would be perectly good."
But, as the Court in that case was careful to point out,
in language later quoted with approval in M, eallenco.v,
Massachusetts,p. 631, "A tax very well inay be up~ldagainst any casual effect it may have upon the bonds of
the United States when passed With a different intent and
not aimed at them.. "It cannot be said that the present tax was aim
at
copyrights. Appe) ant insists that it is, for the same reason as the tao held invalid in Macallen Co. v. Maaachw.
setts, supra, in -that amendments of the taxing act, sufficiently broad to include income from tax. ijimune.
property. in the measure of the tax, were specifically
intended to accomplish that result. Reference is made to
the legislative history of the statute. In People ex rel.
Standard Oil Company v. Law, 237 N. Y. 142, it was held
as a matter of statutory construction that the "entire net
income" specified by the act then in force was gross
income as defined by the applicable provisions of the
federal income tax law, less specified deductions, and that
consequently income from state and municipal bonds and
some federal bonds was not included in the measure of the
fam After that decision subdivision 3 of §' 208 was
amended, Laws N. Y. 1924,.c. 329, to include in the defini-.
tion of income "all interest received from federal, state,
municipal or other bonds "; and § 209 was amended, Laws
N. Y. 1927, c. 479,.so as to include in the measure of te
tax "income from any source."
But the statute, before these amendments, was- suf4 .
ficiently broad to include income from copyrights within
the measure of the tax; and neither before nor after the

394

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.

SuTHmLAND, Vx DEVANTm and Burixn, JJ., dissenting. 282 U.S.

amendments did it make any mention of copyrights or
their income. There is nothing to suggest that the legislature could at any time have had in mind the addition
of income from copyrights to the measure of the tax, or
that the statute or the amendments were adopted "for
the very purpose of subjecting" it "pro tanto to the burden of the tax," which was declared to be the vice of the
statute in Macallen Co. v. Massachusetts, swpra, p. 631.
That. the royalties play some part in the measure of the
tax is the result of the application of the general language
of. the statute to particular circumstances to which the
statute-makes no specific reference. In this respect, the
present statute differs in no substantial way from that
upheld in Flint v. Stone Tracy Co., supra.
Affirmed.
MR. JusTiCE SuT =aRAN, dissenting.
MR. JusTIcsi V D.vAWrsn, MR. JusoD B _msn and
myself entertain a different view.
The duty of this court to examine taxing acts to see
that the use of federal tax-exempt subjects as a measure
for taxes imposed in terms upon taxable subjects is not a
cloak, under which the former in substance and effect
are taxed, was never more imperatife than now, when,
by reason of increased and increasing public expenditures,
states and municipalities are driyen to search in every
direction for additional sources of revenue.
The self-evident operation of the provisions of the New
York tax law is to cause the tax here in question to fall
on an instrumentality of the United States. The statute
necessarily exacts tribute from the income derived from
that instrumentality. The amount of this tax is the
same, and its effect, in every respect, is the same as
though it had been imposed upoji the income in precise
terms. Were it not for Flint V. Stone Tracy Co., it wouldbe difficult to suggest any reason for ignoring the rule so

EDUCATIONAL FILMS CORP. v. WARD.
379 SuTamuAN, WAx

DEvXNTR

395,

and BuTmIR, 33., dissenting.

often laid down in the earlier cases, that the validity of
the tai will depend not on what is named as the subject
of ttio'tax, but on its effect. MacaleA Go. v. Massachusett&,279 U. S. 620, 625-627.
It is true that this court in the Macdlen case did not
overrule the Flint case, but it did characterize that case
as" the extreme example" of the doctrine that a tax may
be measured by income, although a part of such income
is derived from nontaxable property. But.the Macallen
case
mefinitely determined that such a tax must be held
to be invalid if the legislative purpose to lay the tax upon
the nontaxable subject be "fairly inferable from a consideration of the history, the .surrounding circumstances,
or the statute itself considered in all its parts." In the
present- case, we are of opinion that the legislative purpose, though not as clear as it is in respect of income
derived from federal bonds, is "fairly inferable" in respect
of copyrights. And, although it may be conceded that a
tax measured by income derived from copyrights does not
impose a burden upon the exercise of a vital power of
the federal government, as it would in the case of federal
bonds, it is, nevertheless, a tax falling upon income which
is exempt in virtue of an implied prohibition of the federal
Constitution. Long v. Rockwood, 277 U. S.142.
A former act of the state had been held not to reach
certain federal bonds (People ex r~l. Standard Oil Co. v.
Law, 237 N. Y. 142, 149), and that act was amended so
ds to include "all interest received from federal, state,
municipal or other bonds." The amendment by definite
words thus clearly manifests the legislative purpose to
include in the measure of the tax, income derived from
federal bonds of every description, and thereby to disregard the exemption of federal instrumentalities from
state taxation. -So far then as federal bonds are concerned the case falls precisely within the test laid down
in the Macallen case, and substantially within the facts

OCTOBI E1 M 1 30.
SU7HRL& D, VA

DTVA nm and BuTinn, JJ., dissenting. 282 U. S.

of that case. The legislature, however, was not content
with this, but lafer amended the taxing act so as to include in the measure of the tax "income'-from any.
source." The history of these amendments, successivelybroadening the terms of the statute, fairly justifies the
inference that the aim, of the legislature was to reabh
income from every source, including that derived from
all varieties of nontaxable subjects, and, therefore, necessarily including copyrights and patents. That aim the
state cannot make effective consistently with constitulional principles long respected and vital to the preservation of our dual system of government.
What was said by this court-in Home Savings Bank v.
Des Moines, 205 U. S.503, is peculiarly apposite. In
that case a statute of Iowa provided that "Shares of stock
of state and savings banks and loan and trust companies
shall be assessed to such banks and loan and trust companies and not to individual stockholders." The statute
was assailed on the ground that the tax, though in form
upon shares of stock, was in fact upon the property of
the banks, etc., and invalid because the Value of United
States bonds which they owned was included in the
valuation of the property assessed to them. The court,
looking through the words of the act to its purpose and
effect, sustained the contention of the banks. In deciding
the question the court said (p. 509):
"'It is conceded and cannot be disputed that these securities are beyond the taxing power of the State, and the
only question, therefore, is whether in point of fact the
State has taxed them. The first step useful in the solution
of this question is to ascertain with precision the nature
-of the taxin controversy, and upon what property it was
levied, and that step must be taken by an examination
of the taxing law as interpreted by the Supreme Court
of the State. A superficial reading of ihe law would lead

EDUCATIONAL FILMS CORP. v. WARD.
379

Sumxsim,

VAw

Dzw.nrm and BUT=,t,

-397

JJ., dissenting.

to the conclusion that the tax authorized by it is a tax
upon the share§ of stock.- The assessment is'expressed to
be upon 'shares of stock of state and savings banks and
loan and trust companies.' But the true interpretation of
the law cannot rest upon a single phrase in it: All its
parts must be considered in the manner pursued by this
court in New Orleans v. Houston, 119 U. S. 265, 278, and
Home Insurance Co. v. New York, 134 U. S. 594, with the
view of determining the end accomplished by the taxation,
and its actual and substantial purpose and effect.. We
must inquire whether the law really imposes , tax upon
the shares of stock as the property of their owners, or
merely adopts the value of those shares as the measure
of valuation of the property of the corporation, and'by
that standard taxes that property itself."
And at page 521:
"If by the simple device of adopting the value of corporation shares as the measure of the taxation of the
property of the corporation that property loses the
immunities which the supreme -law gives to it, then

national securities may easily be taxed, whenever they
are owned by a corporation, and the national credit has
no defense against a serious wound."

That the principle, "an act may become unlawful when
done to accomplish an unlawful end," applies to statutes

imposing taxes is well established. Federal Land Bank v.
Crosland,261 U.'S. 374, 378.

• But wholly apart from extrinsic circumstances the
statute itself in terms seems clearly to impose an income
tax. The tax is not one upon the privilege of doing
business, but it is an annual tax for the privilege of doing
business, to be computed upon the basis of the net income
for the year next preceding. The highest court of the
state, in People ex rel. Alpha P. C. Co. v. Knapp, 230 N. Y.
48, 57, so held in an opinion by Judge Cardozo, from the

398

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.

SunumIND, VAN DEvAmm

and

Bumnn,

JJ., dissenting.

282 U.S.

reasoning of which it is hard to escape. After citing and
discussing pertinent decisions of this court, he concludes:
"Tested by these precedents, the tax. imposed upon
this franchise must be held in prabtical operation to be
a tax upon the income. Such, indeed, it would be in
form as well as in substance, if the legislature had not
stated (sec. 209) that the privilege of doing business'
was the consideration for the payment. Nothing but
that recital stands between the statute and conceded
invalidity. How the legislature itself -looked upon the
substance of the burden is indicated by other provisions
of the same and later statutes. The tax is to be in lieu
of all other taxes on personal property or capital stock
(Tax Law, sec. 219-J). It is to be in lieu of all other
taxes upon income (sec. 350, subd. 7). There surely was
no intention that all mercantile and manufacturing corporatibns, foreign and domestic, should in very truth be
exempt from taxes upon property so fundamental in importance as capital and the fruits of capital. The reason
for the apparent exemption was that, under the form of
a tax upon the franchise, the property of such corporations had already been subjected to its share of public
burdens.
"I think, therefore, that in substance, though .not in
form, in tendency, though not in name, this tax is equivalent to a tax upon relator's income."
There is nothing in the later case of People ex rel. Bass,
Ratcliff & Grettonv. Tax Commission, 232 N.Y. 42, which,
in our opinion, challenges Judge Cardozo's cogent view.
That case involved the question whether income which
arose in part from property outside the State of New York
could be constitutionally included in the basis for computing the tax. The court held it could, being "based on a
comparison of the total assets with the assets in New
York." The court quoted what Judge Cardozo had said
in the preceding case, that "'the tax imposed upon this

INTERNATIONAL PAPER CO. v. U. S.
379

399

Syllabus.

franchise must be held in practical operation to be a tax,
. . This tax is equivalent to a
upon the income.
tax upon relator's income "; and then added, "it is primarily a tax levied for the privilege of doing business in
the state!' This amounts to nothing more than a repetition in brief of what Judge Cardozo, more at length,
already had said, namely, that in practical operation the
tax is one upon income for the privilege of doing business;
and it leaves the conclusion set forth in the quotation we have made from the Knapp case wholly without
modification.

These views, we submit, require a reversal of the judgment below.
INTERNATIONAL PAPER COMPANY v. UNITED

STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 37.

Argued January 7, 1931.--Decided January 19, 1931.

1. Section 120 of the National Defense Act of 1916, which empowered
the President, in time of war, to place obligatory orders with corporations for any product or material required, of the kind usually
produced by them, was sufficient authority for taking the right
held by a lessee to make use of part of the water in a power
canal, such taking being accomplished by requisitioning from the
power company owning the canal all the electrical power e~pable
of being produced by the use of all waters capable of being
diverted through its intake for its plants and machinery, connected
therewith. P. 406.
2. A requisition by the Government upon a, power compaihy for the
production of all the electrical power capable of being produced
through the full use of the waters of its intake canal, including
the use to which a lessee of the company was entitled under rights
which by state law were a corporeal hereditament and real estate,
held a taking for public use of the water rights of such lessee, and
that the latter is entitled to compensation therefor, notwithstanding that, by an agreement made between the Government and
the power company at the time of the requisition, the Government

