740

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Syllabus.

282 U. S.

LOUISVItLE & NASHVILLE RAILROAD COMPANY
ET A. v. UNITED STATES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.
No. 333.

Argued January 15, 16, 1931.-Decided February 25, 1931.

The Interstate Commerce Commission ordered interstate carriers to
desist from the practice of hauling each other's private, or office,
cars free or at other than published tariff rates, and amended its
regulations to provide that a car pass may be issued only for cars
owned by the issuing carrier or held by it under lease for use in
its business as a common carrier. Held:
1. The findings of the Commission sustain its conclusion that (as
a matter of fact) it is unjustly discriminatory to haul private cars
of other carriers free, while charging for the movement of the private
cars of individuals or of corporations not carriers. P. 748.
2. Such discrimination is not saved from the condemnation of
§ 3 (1) of the Interstate Commerce Act by the fact that the car
hauled free belongs to another railroad and is occupied by its officials engaged about its business and whose" free transportation as
passengers is permitted by §§ 1 (7) and 22 (1) of the Act. P. 749.
3. Nor can it be said (on the facts found by the Commission)
that, so far as the transportation of the private car itself is ncerned, the service is not rendered under substantially similar
circumstances and conditions whether the occupants have passes
or pay for their transportation as passengers. P. 753.
4. On the findings of 'the Commission, there is no ground for
treating the private car of one carrier, when being hauled by
another carrier, as a facility of the hauling carrier and not as
property being transported by it for the owner. P. 754.
5. Section 6 (1); requiring that the provisions as to published
tariffs shall apply to all traffic, transportation and facilities defined
in the Act, and § 3 (1), prohibiting discriminations, clearly embrace the practice in question when they are-applied to the facts
as now found by the Commission, and §§ 1 (7) and 22 (1) clearly
'do not justify it. P. 757.
6. The Act being thus free from ambiguity, it can not be construed as permitting the practice merely because the practice has
been in good faith pursued by the carriers since a -time antedating
the Act, without correction by the .Commission or by Cbngress." Id.
Affirmed,

LOUISVILLE & N. R. CO. v. U. S.
740

Opinion of the Court.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court, of three
judges, dismissing a bill to set aside, in part, two orders
of the Interstate Commerce Commission. The court
below delivered a per curiam opinion which seems not to
have been reported.

Mr. Alfred P. Thorn, with whom Messrs. Edward S.
Jouett, R. V. Fletcher, John J. Cornwell, Robert B.
Tunstall, H. A". Quigley, and Alfred P. Thorn, Jr., were
on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. Daniel W. Knowlton, Chief Counsel, Interstate
Commerce Commission, with whom Solicitor General
Thacher and Mr. Elmer B. Collins, Special Assistant to
the Attorney General, were on the brief, for the United
States et al.
Mr. CCrEF JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of
the Court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the District Court,
constituted as required by statute, dismissing the petition of the appellants to set aside, in part, two orders of
the Interstate Commerce Commission, which were made
on November 4, 1929, and July 30, 1929, respectively.
The first mentioned order was made in a proceeding
instituted by the: Commission in December, 1925, on its
own motion, for an investigation concerning the use of
private passenger-train cars, including so-called office cars.
A questionnaire was sent to all Ciass I and Class II carriers, and to switching and terminal carriers, calling for
information "as to private passenger-train cars owned,
leased or operated, the movement or use of such cars as
were transported free or at less than tariff rates on home
and foreign lines, and the occupants of such cars on respective trips." Returns were made by 387 carriers covering the calendar years 1923, 1924 and 1925. In July,
1928, a proposed report was served upon appellants and

742.

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U.S.

all other carriers. Exceptions were filed by the Association of Railway Executives on behalf of its members,
including the appellants; argument was heard and the
matter: submitted to' the Commission. Its report was
issued on June 21, 1929, setting forth the Commission's
findings and conclusions. 155 I. C. C. 775. • After waiver
by the carriers of further hearing before the Commission,
the order in question was entered requiring' the carriers
named, including these appellants, "to cease and desist,
on or before January 15, 1930, and thereafter to abstain,
from the transportation or movement of private passenger
-train cars, including so-called office cars, of another carrier free or at other than published tariff rates."
, The other order of the Commission under attack, that
is, the order of July 30, 1929, amended the Commission's
regulations, governing the form and recording of passes,
by the insertion of the following: "A car pass may be issued only for cars owned by the issuing carrier or held
by it under lease for use in its business as a common car.rier. It may not be issued for other cars. This provision
is not to be construed as prohibiting the issuance of passes
for cars _of lines operated as a part of the same system.
See -In the Matter of Private Passenger Train Cars, 155

I C. C. 775."

The case was tried in the District Court on the facts
detailed in the report of the Commission -as to the practices of the carriers, and as to these facts there was no dispute. The court concluded that the practice condemned
by the Commission was a matter within its jurisdiction,
and that, the order being supported by substantial evidence, the court was without power to interfere.
The evidence before the Commission consisted of the
returns of the carriers to its questionnaire. These returns
contained a vast amount of statistical data, differing in
details but practically the same in substance, which were
'eviewed and tabulated in the Commission's report. The
Commission found, in substance, that carriers transported

LOUISVILLE & N. R. CO. v. U. S.
740

743

Opinion of the Court.

free of charge the private, or office, cars 2 of other carriers
when occupied by persons for whose transportation it was
lawful to issue a pass; that carriers also provided-accessorial transportation of such cars free of charge when they
were moved " deadhead" to stations where they were to
be occupied, or to their home stations after occupancy,
and also in switching and storing the cars. The wide extent of the practice and the abuses attending it were
shown.2 The Commission referred to the proposal of the
1
The Commission's report and order described the cars in question
as private passenger-train cars, or private bassenger cars, including
so-called office cars. The reference is to the private, or office, cars
of carriers as ,distinguished from cars privately owned by persons
and corporations other than railroad companies.
2
The Commission's report states (in part): "The returns show
that a substantial portion of the total mileag of private passengertrain cars, including so-called office cars, herein referred, to collectively as private cars, was on the lin'es of carriers other than those
owning the cars. The private cars thus moved over foreign lines
were transported without charge. In other words, a pass was issued
covering transportatioii of the private cars similar to that issued
for the transportation of certain classes of persons as provided for
in sections 1 and 22 of the act....
"It will be understood that a private car includes a kitchen, dining
room, staterooms, and observation or sitting room, together with
storage space and sleeping quarters for the cook and attendants.
The facilities thus provided for those traveling in private cars excel
the facilities of the 'ordinary coach or Pullman car.
"The returns ... show that the occupants of private cars are
not restricted to officials and employees of the carriers but include
in a large number of cases the families, relatives, and friends of
railway officials traveling on passes or on tickets that would in most
cases entitle them only to transportation in the ordinary coach."
(The report cites many instances of the movenent of such cars
when in charge of the wives of officials and the widows of deceased
efficials.) ...
" There is also a substantial use of private cars, both on home
and foreign lines, by directors of carriers. ..
"The movement of private cars to resorts commonly patronized
by those seeking recreation w amusement, and located on foreign

744

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U.S.

carriers to undertake the correction of such abuses, and
stated that the Commission was concerned primarily with
the Iegalitr of the free transportation of the private cars
of other carriers.
With respect to the transportation of privately owned
cars, that is, -of cars owned by others than carriers, or of
cars chartered for the exclusive use of special parties, the
Commission found that such cars were transported in '-There is also an extensive use of:
lines, is'very noticeable.'...
private cars by-short lines,- industrial roads,-and lines owned, controlled, or used in the interest of some particular business. The
mileage of private cars used by the latter lines is largely on foreign
lines, and in numerous instances the home stations of the cars and
the movements thereof are so far removed from'the vicinity of the
owning road that it is difficult to conceive the circumstances under
which such movements 'could have been in the interest of or connected with the operation of the road owning the car ....
-'The returns show that asubstantial portion of the total mileage
of privA6 cars, especially on foreign, lines, was what is commonly
mileage, that is, the cars were not
referred to as 'deadhead'
bceupied, except in some instances by an attendant. The purpose
of such mbvements-is to return the cars to their home stations or
t move them to aations where they are to'be occupied.... The
returns show numerous instances where private cars were deadheaded to and from off-line shops without charge. Also worthy of
consideration'is 'the matter of free switching service and free storage
for private ears. A large number of the private. cars covered by the
retins are held at off-line stations when not in use. Many are so
held at New York and the returns indicate that the matter of
storage and switching of these cars is of considerable importance from
the standpoint of operating expenditures. In numerous cases cars
were rented from-th6 Pullman Company by officers of carriers, and
such cars "were moved Nithout charge by the carriers ...
" The private&cars of railroad officials are intended to be offices
on wheels for those whose duties require considerable travel over
the line' and when used for that purpose are an important facility
for carrying on the business of the road. It is seldom, however,
that these-duties necessitate a movement of the car over other lines.
In some cases such a movement may be justified for business reasons; for example, 'where it avoids 'a very circuitous haul over the

LOUISVILLE & N. R. CO. v. U. S.
740

745

Opinion of the Court.

senger trains under tariffs which provided for certain minimum revenues,' and that these charges were intended to
cover the service of transporting the cars, that is, "to
home line. But the returns to our questionnaire indicate that pri
vate cars are often used for other than business purposes by railroad
officers, their relatives, and friends. Moreover, they appear to be
used in some instances for the benefit of an industry which' controls
the railroad. In other instances, their use in entertaining shippers
may be for the purpose of obtaining business for the railroad. These
and other abuses are apparent from the returns, but we are here
concerned primalily with the legality of the free transportation of
the private cars of other carriers." 155 I. C. C., pp. 776, 778, 779,
781, 782, 783.
3 The Commission stated: "Special, privately 6wned, or chattered
cars for the exclusive use of special parties are transported in passenger trains under tariffs which provide for certain minimum revehues. In the case of sleeping and-parlor cars, charges for a one-way
movement are based on the authorized fare for each passenger, with
a minimum of 25 adult fares, but not less than $42 for the car
and party. The charges for a round-trip mo.e.ent are'siilar,
except the 25 fares are doubled or must-be for' the roufid trip, and
the minimum revenue is $84. In either case, the surcharge must be
paid for each passenger, with a minimum of 25 surcharges, but this
is not used in computing the minimum revenue per car, When a car
is moved empty or in charge of porter or other attendants, charges
are assessed on the basis of 10 regular adult one-way fares, plus
the authorized fare for each porter or attendant, except- ot more
than three employees of common carriers may be carried free. In
this case also the minimum revenue is -42, including fares of attendants, but the surcharge is not collected. In some of the tariffs'the
charges for empty movements apply to carrier-owned as well Os
privately owned equipment. The tariffs also provide for application
of the minimum, fares and revenue -on carrier-owned cars equiptped
for certain special purposes, such as advertising, exhibition, instruction, and the like. These are the provisions generally in effect,
although there may be variations on individual lines. The term
privately owned cars is not defined in the tariffs, but its obvious
meaning is cars owned by others than the carriers. Apparently a
private car owned by an individual' even though a railroad official
would be subject to the tariff charges on privately 'owned cars..."
155 I. C. C., pp. 787, 788.

746

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 1. S.

compensate for the movement of the 'car rather than its*
contents.4'! The Commission concluded that the transportation of the private cars of other carriers free, or at
less-than-published rates,'while-making charges for.-the
movement of privately owned or chartered cars, was unjustly discriminatory.
Treating the private6 r. office, cars of other carriers as
property, to which the provisions of the Interstate Commerce Act applied, and considering that the free transportation.of property was lawful only in the exceptions provid-ed'in section 22 of the Interstate Commerce Act, the
Commission concluded that the tran'pbrtation of such
cars free, or at other than published tariff rates, was a violation of the Act. The Commission pointed out that its
finding," does not extend'to the point of saying that it is"
unlawful for private cars of one carrier to be transported
over the lines of other carriers, but is, confined to the asserti6n that under existing law the transportation of priyate cars onfoleig lines should be paid for through the
assessment of a just and reasonable charge." 155 I. C. C.
p.'79

.

The conclusions, of the Commission were thus summarized in its order of November 4, 1929:.
' 1.. That the transportation or movement of private
passenger cars,'including so-called office cars, of one car4
: Theb
Commi sion sa Iid.on this poIint; "'As heretofore pointed out,
the tariffs provide certain 'minimum fares and revenues for the
movement. of special, privately owned, or chartered cars, which are
evidently intended to cover the service of Lransportmg the car. This
is apparent ftom the fact that the charges are the same whether the
car is occupied by i passenger or 25., Fspeially in the case of cars
moving empty or in charge of porter, it is manifest that the nmimum
fares and, revenue are intended to compensate for the movement
of the ca rather than its contents. Apparently the only material
difference between the cars on which these, minimum charges apply
and the private,,cars of, other carriers is the matter of whoi owns
or is using them." 155 I. C. C., p. 792.

LOUISVILLE & N. R. CO. v. U. S.
740

Opinion of the Court.

rier subject to the Interstate Commerce Act by another
such carrier free or at other than published tariff rates is
contrary to the provisions of the Interstate Commerce
Act;
"2. That it is unjustly discriminatory and unduly pref,erential and prejudicial to haul such private cars of other
carriers free, or at less than published tariff rates, while
charging certain minimum fares and revenues for the
movement of privately owned or chartered cars; and
"3. That the transportation of persons in such private
passenger cars, including berth and other accommodations, at the rate charged passengers provided only with
ordinary coach accommodations is unjustly discriminatory and unduly preferential and prejudicial."
Appellants state that they 'are not attacking the third
of these propositions; that is, there is no effort in this suit
to set aside that part of the Commission's order which
relates to the transporting of revenue passengers in
business cars at the rate charged passengers holding tickets
which are good only in the coach. The appellants say
that it is the purpose of the carriers to remove this discrimination in some satisfactory way.
The first two propositions are those in controversy,
The appellants confine their complaint in this Court -to

the -aspect of the Commission's order which holds unlawful the movement by a carrier subject to the Act" of the

private or business car of another such carrier when such
car is occupied by a person using, and lawfully entitled to
use, free transportation." A similar position is taken with
respect to the other order of the Commission (of July 30,
1929), amending *the Commission's regulations as to,
passes.
With the premise that the Commission has no authority
except that delegated to it by the Congress, the appellants contend (1) that the movement under consideration
"is not a shipment of property subject to section 6 of the

748

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of ihe Court.

282 U. S.

Interstate Commerce Act, which relates to property shipments"; and-'(2) that " the transaction' here involved
does-not violate he discrimination provisions" of the Act.
We may first consider the question of unjust discrimination. It is not open to dispute that, there is discrimination in fa . '-The findings of the Comision are decisive
updn that point. The tariffs of, the cariers provide.for
certain minimum fares and revenues for the movement of
the' private cars of individuals, and of corporations other
than th6se of other carriers. These charges; as the Commission foind, cover the service of fransporting the car
and'-fot simply the passengers. ' "Apparently," said the
Commission, " the only material difference between the
cars on which these minimum' charges apply and the
private cars of Other carrisrs is the matter of who owns
or is using them."' The Commission found that this' discrimination is +unjiutand, so far as this 'is a question of
fact, it does not 'appear that the finding lacks adequate
support. The appellants emphasize the convenience to
railroad- dficials of the exisfink practice. It is said thai
much of + ail oad officer's time is spent in traveling, not
only o4er his' own lines, but6'po
ints on the lines of other
railroads, in connection with questions of management
and operatibn, as well as of financial hand other executive
policies of imp rtance io"all the railioads; - that he must
attend' meeftings' and- conferences, and hearings before
Commissions; that during such journeys, which frequently cover long periods, he' is handling mail and businjess d6ctiments, and is giving attention to the conduct of
hils'railroad work; and that 'he must' ake with him volu minous papers, and office assistants. It'is also-pointed
out that inspection of the iproperties of other carriers is'
necessary to good management and has high educational
VAlue. But, if it be assumed that the existing practice
is a convenience tO railroad officials; 'still it does not appear thatthe c6nveniene
de is essentially
.
one peculiar to

LOUISVILLE & N. R. CO. v. U. S.
740

Opinion of the Court.

their case. The finding of the Commission is that, while
the use of private cars of railroad officials as "offices on
wheels for 'those whose duties require considerable travel
over the line," is an important facility for carrying on the
business of the road, "it is.
seldom, however, that these
duties necessitate a movement of the car over other lines."
And it is a matter of common knowledge that there are
large enterprises, other than railroads, extending throughout the country, or large portions of it, and requiring
executive supervision; that there are numerous meetings
and conferences, held in different parts of the country, of
national organizations representing undertakings which
are nation-wide in scope; and that those charged -vith
administrative responsibilities in important activities
must give appropriate attention to them while on their
travels in the discharge of their duties or in the promotion of the interests confided to their care. Discrimination by a carrier with respect to the movement of private
cars over its line, in favor of the officials of other railroad companies, and against all others who may desire
the transportation of such private cars for their convenience, would require evidence to justify it (unless it can be
deemed to lie outside the purview of the statute) and that
evidence islacking. We perceive no ground for disturbing the finding of the Commission as to unjust discrimination, unless it can be said as matter of law that there
was none; that is, that the difference in treatment was
one which was sanctioned by the Interstate Commerce
Act. It is the contention of the appellants that the practice has this sanction.
The legislative history of the Interstate Commerce Act
shows clearly that the evil of discrimination was the principal thing aimed at. Senate Report No. 46, 49th Cong.,
1st sess., p. 215. See Kansas City SouthernRy. Co.v.Albers
Commission Co., 223 U. S.573, 597. This Court has said
that the language of the Act "is certainly sweeping enough

750

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

to embrace all the discriminations of the sort described
which it was within the power of Congress to condemn." '
The Shreveport Case, 234 U. S. 342, 356. Section 3 provides that "it shall be unlawful for any common carrier...
to make or give any undue or unreasonable preference or
advantage to any particular person, company, firm, corporation, or locality, or any particular description of
traffic, in any respect whatsoever." The prohibition, of
course, does not reach the exceptional cases for which provision is made by sections 1 and 22 of the Act with respect
to passes.' These provisions relate to the transportation,
' Sec. 2., If any common carrier subject to the provisions of this
chapter shall, directly or indirectly, by any special rate, rebate, drawback, or other device, charge, demand, collect, or receive from any
person or persons a greater or less compensation for any service rendered, or to be rendered, in the transportation of passengers or property or the transmission of intelligence, subject to the provisions of
this chapter, than it charges, demands, collects, or receives from any
other person or persons for doing for him or them a like and contemporaneous service in the transportation or transmission of a like
kind of traffic or message under substantially similar circumstances
and conditions, such common carrier shall be deemed guilty of unjust
discrimination, which is prohibited and declared to be unlawful".
U. S. C., Tit. 49, § 2.
"See. 3 (1). It shall be unlawful for any common carrier subject
to the provisions of this chapter to make or give any undue or unreasonable preference or advantage to any particular person, company, firm, corporation, or locality, or any particular description of
traffic, in any respect whatsoever, or to subject any particular person,
company, firm, corporation, or locality, or any particular description
of traffic, to any undue or unreasonable prejudice or disadvantage
in any respect whatsoever." U. S. C., Tit. 49, § 3.
6 " Sec. 1....
(7) No common carrier subject to the provisions
of this chapter, shall, directly or indirectly, issue or give any interstate free ticket, free pass, or free transportation for passengers,
except to its employees and their families, its officers, agents, surgeons,
physicians, and attorneys at law; to ministers of religion, traveling
secretaries of railroad Young Men's Christian Associations, inmates
of hospitals and charitable and 'eleemosynary institutions, and per-

LOUISVILLE & N. R. CO. v. U. S.
740

751

Opinion of the Court.

free or at reduced rates, of the persons and property there
described. Neither section provides for the free transportation of private cars. If discrimination, which would
sons exclusively engaged in charitable and eleemosynary work; to
indigent, destitute and homeless persons, and to such persons when

transported by charitable societies or hospitals, and the necessary
agents employed in such transportation; to inmates of the National
Homes or State Homes for Disabled Volunteer Soldiers, and of Soldiers' and Sailors' Homes, including those about to enter and those
returning home after discharge; to necessary caretakers of live stock,
poultry, milk, and fruit; to employees on sleeping cars, express
cars, and to linemen of telegraph and telephone companies; to Railway Mail Service employees, post-office inspectors, customs inspectors, and immigration inspectors; to newsboys on trains, baggage
agents, witnesses attending any legal investigation in which the
common carrier is interested, persons injured in wrecks and physicians and nurses attending such persons: Provided, That this provision shall not be construed to prohibit the interchange of passes
for the officers, agents, and employees of common carriers, and their
families; nor to prohibit any common carrier from carrying passengers
free with the object of providing relief in cases of general epidemic,
pestilence, or other calamitous visitation: And provided further,
That this provision shall not be construed to prohibit the privilege
of passes or franks, or the exchange thereof with each other, for
the officers, agents, employees, and their families of such telegraph,
telephone, and cable lines, and the officers, agents, employees, and
their families of other common carriers subject to the provisions of
this chapter: Provided further, That the term 'employees' as used
in this paragraph shall include furloughed, pensioned, and superannuated employees, persons who have become disabled or infirm in
the service of any such common carrier, and the rermains of a person
killed in the employment of a carrier and ex-employees traveling
for the purpose of entering the service of any such common carrier;
and the term 'families' as used in this paragraph shall include the
families of those persons named in this proviso, also the families 'of
persons killed, and the widows during widowhood and minor children
during minority of persons who died, while in the service of any
such common carrier. . . !' U. S. C., Tit., 49, § 1 (7).
"See. 22. (1) Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the carriage,
storage, or handling of property free or at reduced rates for the

752

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

otherwise be unjust and condemned by the Act, can be
deemed to be saved by the exceptions stated, it must be
either because the transportation of a private car is to be
regarded as incidental to the free transportation of a passenger who may hold a pass, or because the transportation
of a private car occupied by a passenger with a pass is
not a service rendered under circumstances and conditions substantially similar to those of the transportation
of a private car with passengers paying fares.
Neither of these propositions is tenable. The pass
which the statute allows is in lieu of the passenger's fare
and is for the transportation of the passenger. The terms
of the statutory permission go no further. Passes may be
given under the statute to a variety of persons, including
not only the principal officers of railroad companies but
the agents and employees of common carriers, and their
families, including among others, -for example, furloughed
and superannuated employees, and those who have become disabled or infirm in the service of a carrier, and also
"the families of persons killed, and the widows during
United States, State, or municipal governments, or for charitable
purposes, or to or from fairs and expositions for exhibition thereat,
or the free carriage of destitute and homeless persons transported
by charitable societies, and the necessary agents employed in such
transportation, or the issuance of mileage, excursion, or commutation
passenger tickets; nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prohibit any common carrier from giving reduced rates to ministers of
religion, or to municipal governments for the transportation of indigent persons, or to inmates of the National Homes or State Homes
for Disabled Volunteer Soldiers, and of Soldiers' and Sailors' Orphan
Homes, including those about to enter and those returning home
after discharge, under arrangements with the boards of managers of
said homes. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent
railroads from giving free carriage to their own officers and employees,
or to prevent the principal officers of any railroad company or
companies from exchanging passes or tickets with other railroad com." U.S. C., Tit. 49,
panies for their .officers and employees;

§ 22 '(1).

LOUISVILLE & N. R. C.
740

v. U. S.

753

Opinion of the Court.

widowhood and minor children during minority of persons who died, while in the service of any such common
carrier." It would hardly be thought a reasonable contention that the transportation of a private car should be
deemed incidental to the free transportation of all the
persons in the categories mentioned. But so far as the
pass per se is concerned, the hauling of a private car occupied by such a person is as much, and as little, incidental to the pass in one case as in any other. Even in
the case of a railroad official, it appears that if he owns the
private car, its transportation would be subject to the
tariff charges on privately owned cars, (155 I. C. C. p.
788). The distinction, then, must be found, not in the
fact that a pass may be issued for the transportation of
the passenger, or that the passenger is a railroad official,
but in the fact that the private car in'which the holder of
the pass is traveling belongs to another carrier. We find
nbthing in the terms of the statute recognizing such a
differentiation. See New York, N. H. & H. R. Co. v.
Interstate Commerce Comm., 200 U. S. 361; Interstate
Commerce Comm. v. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co., 225 U. S.
326, 341, 342.
Nor can it be said that so far as the transportation of
the private car itself is concerned, the service is not rendered under substantially similar circumstances and conditions whether the occupants have passes or pay for their
transportation as passengers. The circumstances and conditions relating to the transportation of the cars, as such,
are alike. The cars are hauled between the same points,
on the same line, in the same or like passenger trains, and
in the same manner.
The appellants' contention rests largely upon the long
.continuance of the practice of the carriers to transport
the private, or office, cars of other carriers free of charge,
and upon the fact that the Interstate Commerce Commission has not only not interfered with the practice here22110°-31-

8

' 754

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court,

282 U. S.

tofore, but has apparently sanctioned it by its regulations
in recognizing passes for such cars. The argument based
on this asserted sanction is addressed both to the conclusion of the Commission that the movement of such
cars free, or at other than published tariff rates, is contrary to the provisions of the Interstate Commerce Act,
and to the conclusion of the Commission as to unjust
discrimination. It is said that in view of the nature of
the subject of the transportation, and especially in the
light of past administrative construction, the Act should
be construed as not forbidding the free transportation of
the cars in question, and that, if it is lawful to move the
carrier-owned car free, no unlawful discriminatory conditions arise from the difference of treatment of privately
owned cars. In this view, the right of free transportation
of the cars in question is made the fundamental consideration and we pass to the examination of that
question.
Supporting their contention in this respect, the appellants argue that the movement of the private, or office, car
of another carrier is not a shipment of property; that
such a car in the movement under consideration is to be
regarded as a facility of the carrying line, ranking as its
own for the purposes of the service. The Commission
dealt with the question when railway equipment generally
may be transported without charge. The Commission
said that, of course, a carrier may transport its own property without the payment of tariff charges; that, likewise,
property which is hired or rented for the performance of
its common-carrier duties may be transported in the same
way as property which it owns. The Commission reviewed the terms on'which freight cars and passenger
cars move over foreign lines. It found that "so long as
a car is being handled for revenue purposes, it is in service and not subject to.charges; but when it is transported

LOUISVILLE & N. R. CO. v. U. S.
740

Opinion of the Court.

solely for the benefit, of the owning line, the latter must

pay for such transportatofi 6n another line." The Commission further found that 'the criterion for determiningwhen a passenger car is in service would'seem to be the
same as in the case f a freight car; that is, wheth-r the
car is being handled for revenue purposes in the interest
of all' the carriers in the through route or solely for the
benefit of the owning line." 155 I. C. C., pp. 786, 787.
After referring to the tariff charges for the movement of
"special, privately owned, or chartered cars for the exclusive use of special parties" when transported in passenger
trains, 7 the Commission reached the, following conclusion:
"It will be seen from the foregoing that tariff charges
are provided for the transportation in freight trains of
both carrier and privately owned cars of all kinds, when
they are handled solely for the benefit of the owner and
not for revenue purposes. It would not be seriously urged
that such transportation could be rendered free if an attendant or other person having a pass should ride in the
car. The tariffs also provide minimum charges for the
transportation in passenger trains of special, privately
owned, or chartered cars for the exclusive use of special
parties. Apparently these minimum charges would not
be lessened or affected in any way if a'person or persons
having passes should ride in the car. All of these charges
show that there is nothing in the nature of railway equipment which justifies its transportation without charge,
except when it is being handled for revenue purposes in
the interest of the carrier performing the service. Even,
then the revenue from a passenger car used exclusively
by a special party must be sufficient to warrant its transportation. .

.

. The transportation of a private car of

another carrier is ordinarily for the benefit of the owning
line or its officials and not for revenue purposes. While
7

See Note 3.

756

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 V.S.

ticket passengers may sometimes occupy such a car, they
do so by invitation, and the carrier performing the transportation is not at liberty to make use of the car by putting other passengers in it. The returns to our questionnaire indicate that it is seldom, if ever, that the number
of ticket passengers is sufficient to make the hauling of
the private car -of another carrier profitable to the carrier
performing the service. This is further indicated by the
additional fact that such passengers apparently do not
pay the surcharge, which is assessed on persons riding in
Pullman and rivately owned or chartered cars. Indeed,
the few ticket passengers: sometimes riding in the private
car of another carrier could probably be accommodated
in other equipment that must be hauled anyhow, and the
transporting carrier would receive more revenue if they
rode in an ordinary Pullman car. Under these circumstances a carrier hauling the private -car of another line
can not be said to have hired its use, as it would have no
interest in doing so and pays no rental therefor. Even
if car hire should be provided on private cars, it would
obviously be a mere subterfuge which could not change'
the legality of the practice. Our conclusion is that the
transportation of the private car of another carrier is not
of such advantage to the carrier performing the service
as to warrant its peformance without charge, on the same
principle as the free handling of revenue-producing equipment." Id., pp. 788, 789. On the findings of the Commission, we perceive no ground for the conclusion that
the cars in question are to be treated merely as a facility
of the carrying line and not as property transported.
The Commission referred to the argument that the carriers had always hauled the private cars of other lines
without charge, and that this practice had been well
known to the Commission and had been expressly approved by it. Endeavoring to meet the contention that
the Commission in its conference rulings and pass regula-

LOUISVILLE & N. R. CO. v. U. S.
'740

Opinion of the Court.

tions of 1917 had prescribed a form of pass for railway
officials and employees, which included the word "car,"
and which, as the carriers asserted, applied to foreign-line
cars, the Commission said that the form of pass should be
given a construction in harmony with the law and that the
Commission "never intended to approve the practice of
issuing passes for the private cars of other lines." There
is; however, no question as to the long-continued practice
of transporting the private cars of other lines without
charge, and it would seem that the form of pass prescribed
by the Commission was available and was used in this
practice. The Commission stated that this was the first
time that the lawfulness of the practice. of issuing passes
for foreign-line private cars had been brought in issue before it, but the Commission recognized that the practice
prevailed at the time of the passage of the Act to Regulate Commerce and had been continued. It appears that
prior to this proceeding, the Commission had not attempted to disturb it.
The Act has been repeatedly amended, and has been
reenacted, without any change directed to the correction
of this practice. It is strongly urged that in the light of
these circumstances the administrative construction
should be determinative. The principle is a familiar one
that in the interpretation of a doubtful or ambiguous
statute the long continued and uniform practice of the
authorities charged with its administration is entitled to
great weight and will not be disturbed except for cogent
reasons. Logan v. Davis, 233 U. S. 613,, 627; Kern River
Co. v. United States, 257 U. S. 147, 154; Swendig v. Washington WaterPower Co., 265 U. S. 322, 331; United States
v. Minnesota,270.U. S. 181, 205; Wisconsin v. Illinois, 278
U-. S. 367, 413. But that principle does not go far enough
to control the decision here. There is no ambiguity in the
requirement of section 6 (1) of the Act that its provisions
as to published tariffs "shall apply to all traffic, transpor-

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

tation, and facilities defined in this Act." Whether the
private, or office, cars of other carriers are to be deemed
property transported, or a facility of the carrying line,
depends upon the circumstances of the carriage as matters
of fact, and when the facts have been resolved by the
Commission upon evidence, there is no escape from the
application of the broad provision of the statute. Similarly, there is no ambiguity, so far as the terms of the
provision of section 3 (1) are concerned, in its prohibition
of discriminations, when it has been found as a fact that
these cars are transported for the benefit of the owning
line and do not belong in the category of the facilities of
the carrying line, and that transporing them free of
charge constitutes an unjust discrimination, as compared
with the tariff charges for the transportation of privately
owned cars. Nor are the provisions of sections 1 (7) and
22 (1) to be deemed ambiguous by reason of the omission of private, or office, cars owned by carriers from the
specification of persons or property that may be carried
free. The omission simply takes the cars out of the provisions of the sections. Whatever doubt or uncertainty'
attached to the application of the provision of the Act to
the transactions under review lay in the appreciation of
the facts, and appropriate action thereon, and not in the
interpretation of the terms of the law after the facts have
been ascertained. Thus, in American Express Co. v.
United States, 212 U. S. 522, it was argued by the appellants that the custom of express compahies to issue sich
passes as were there-in question was one of long standing
and presumably known to Congress; that there was no
record of any protest against it to or by the Interstate
Commerce Commission, or to Congress, nor any suggestion in any speech or report that it was supposed to be
,detrimental to the public interest, or that it was intended
to be prohibited; that there was no direct or express pro-

LOUISVILLE & N. R. CO. v. U. S.
740

Opinion of the Court.

hibition in the statute, but, on the contrary, the Interstate
Commerce Act recognized and always had recognized that
the granting of similar privileges to the officers and employees of railroad companies was consistent with sound
public policy. (p. 523.) And this Court stated in its
opinion that the facts were not seriously in dispute, and
showed that it had been the custom of express companies
for many years to issue franks such as were embraced in
the proceeding. (p. 529.) But this Court held that, in
view of the all-embracing prohibition of the Act, it could
not be doubted that the transportation of property, such
as was shown in that case, upon franks issued by the express companies, was within the terms of the Act. If the
practice could be deemed to be lawful, the Court said that
the right must be founded upon some exception incorporated in the statute. The Court found no such exception and gave effect to the Act according to its terms.
Long continued practice and the approval of administrative authorities may be persuasive in the interpretation of doubtful provisions of a statute, but cannot alter
provisions that are clear and explicit when related to the
facts disclosed. A failure to enforce the law does not
change it. The good faith of the carriers in the transactions of the past may be unquestioned, but that does not
justify the continuance of the practice.
We are of the opinion that the order of the Commission
of November 4, 1929, was within its authdrity. For similar reasons, we conclude that the Commissi6n had power
to revise its regulation as to passes in the manner provided by the order of July 30, 1929.
Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNoLDs and MR. JusTiCE SUTHERLAN are of opinion that the decree of the court below

should be reversed.

