OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Syllabus.

282 U.S.

with the Commissioner, we think that, in the light of the
procedure above outlined, his approval of the schedule of
credits and refunds must be taken to be the final exercise
of that discretion and the allowance of the credit. This
construction of the act brings about uniformity in administration, as it makes the allowance of credits and
refunds simultaneous.
It results that even though the second claim for refund
filed by the respondent be treated not as an amendment.
of its original claim of 1923, but as a new and independent
claim, it was filed within four.years of the payment of the
tax, since that payment must be taken to have occurred
on the date of the allowance of the credit by the Commissioner's signature approving the schedule of refunds and
credits. Such approval was given as respects the credit
to respondent on September 6, 1923, which was within
four years of the date of the filing of the second claim
The views herein -expressed make it unnecessary to
decide whether the later claim may propery be considered an amendment of the original claim for refund.
The judgment of the Court of Claims is
Affirmed.
UNITED STATES v. BOSTON BUICK COMPANY.
SAME v. IRON CAP COPPER COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE. CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

Nos. 42 and 43.- Argued January 8, 9, 1931-Decided February 2,

1931.
1. Interest on a credit allowed a taxpayer because of overpayment
of income and excess profits taxes must be computed accordingto
the statutory provision for interest in force at the time of such
- allowance. P. 478.
2. The allowance of credits in these cases was the Commissioner's
approval of the schedule of refunds and credits which had been

UNITED STATES v. BOSTON BUICK CO.
476

477

"Opinion of the Coui .

forwarded to him by the Collector.
ante, p. 468. P. 478.
35 F. (2d) 560, affirmed.

United States v. Swift & Co.,

CERTIORARI, 281 U. S.709, to review affirmances of two
recoveries by taxpayers, in the District Court (see 27 F.
(2d) 395; 31 id. 628), in actions for interest upon overpayments of income and profits taxes. The overpayments
had been applied as credits against taxes due for other
years.
Assistant Attorney General Rugg, with whom Solicitor
General Thacher and Messrs. Claude R. Branch, Special
Assistant to the Attorney General, Charleg R. Pollard,
Bradley B. Gilman, and Clarence M. Charest, General
Counsel Bureau of Internal Revenue, and Ralph E. Smith
were on the brief, for the United States.
Mr. Charles W. Mulcahy, with whom Mr. Robert N.
Miller was on the brief, for' the Boston Buick Company.
Mr. Burton E. Eames for the, Iron Cap Copper
Company.
MR. JUsTIcE ROBERTS delivered th' opinion of the
Court.
These cases involve the same. question as United States
v. Swift & Co., ante, p. 468; namely, what constitutes the
allowance of a credit to a taxpayer who has overpard his
income or profits taxes. The issue is made on facts somewhat different from those involved in. that case. It is
whether interest to be paid on the amounts credited to the
taxpayers shall be calculated as provided by ยง 1324 of the
Revenue Act of 1921 (42 Stat. 316) or by ยง 1019 of the.
Revenue Act of 1924 (43 Stat. 346). Interest runs from
different periods under these acts. As the allowance
made by the Act of 1924 is more favorable to the taxpayers in these cases, they claimed interest on their credits

478

OCTOBER TERM 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U.S.

under that act. The Commissioner awarded them interest under the Act of 1921. The date of the allowance of
the credits becomes important because we have held that
interest on refunds and credits must be computed according to the statutory provision in force at the time of their
allowance. United States v. Magnolia Petroleum Co.,
276 U, S. 160; Blair v. Birkenstock, 271 U. S. 348.
Upon audit of respondents' returns for 1918 it was
disclosed that their taxes had been overassessed for that
year. In March, 1924, the Commissioner approved
schedules which informed the Collector of the overassessments and instructed him to check the same against the
taxpayers' accounts, determine whether to abate in whole.
or M part, determine any overpayment, and apportion
the same as between credit and refund. In July,: 1924,
the Collector. completed his work, as to both taxpayers'
accounts, and- executed and forwarded to the Commissioner schedulds of refunds and' credits attached to the
schedules of overassessments. The Commissioner placed
his certificate of approval on the schedules of refunds
and credits ob July 31 and August 7. The Revenue Act
of 1924 beame effective June 2, 1924. If the credits
were allowed after the effective date of that statute the
respondents are entitled to interest computed in accordance with ยง 1019 of that act; if before, they are entitled
.to interest computed as provided by ยง 1324 of the Revenue-Act of 1921. The District Court held that the provisions of the 1924 act applied, -and the. Circuit Court of
Appeals affirmed its judgments. On petition of the
United States this court issued writs of ceftiorari in both
cases.
In view of the. decision in United States v. Swift.& Co.,
supra, we hold that the Commissioner's approval of
the schedule of refunds and credits constituted the allowance, and that interest is to be computed as required by
the Act of 1924.
The judgmeits are
Af irmed.

