760

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Syllabus.

282 U. S.

KANSAS CITY SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY
ET AtL. v. UNITED STATES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT' COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN -DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.

No. 517. Argued January 16, 1931.--Decided February .25, 1931.
1. The pendency in a District Court of a suit by carriers under the
Urgent Deficiencies Act of October 22, 1913 (U. S. C., Title 28,
§ 43) to set aside an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission
does not prevent the District Court of another district from entertaining jurisdiction of a suit foi the same relief brought, in
accordance with the venue provisions of the Act, by other carriers
entitled to attack the order. P. 762.
2. When such a suit has been brought in one venue, carriers entitled
to attack the order in another venue may intervene in that suit.
- U. S. C., Title 28, § 45a. P. 763.
3. When two such suits to set aside the "same order have been
brought in different venues, the District Court in the later suit is
to exercise a sound discretion in determining whether'to proceed or
to await the.outcome of the earlier one, to the end that there shall
not be a multiplicity of suits without substantial reason. P. 763.
4. Sound discretion was not abused in the present case by proceeding,
to judgment, since the pendency of the earlier suit was not raised
until the defendants set up the decree therein as an affirmative
defense in this one, several months after this suit was begun and
on the day of final hearing. P. 764.
5. A common carrier dealing with transportation that is subject to
the Interstate Commerce Act cannot escape its statutory obligations by calling itself a private carrier as to such transportation;
-and this applies to transactions with other carriers. P. 764.
6. Order of the Interstate Commerce Commission directing carriers
to desist from transporting free the private, or office, cars of
other carriers, sustained on the authority of Louisville & Nashville
R. Co. v. United States, ante, p. 740. P. 764.
7. Objection that the Commission's order regulates movements of
office cars in intrastate commerce, rejected because not made in the
bill and because no reason for construing the order as intended to
embrace transportation not within. the purview of the Interstate
Commerce Act is disclosed by the record. P. 765.
Affirmed.

KANSAS CITY SOU. RY. v. U. S.
760

Opinion of the Court.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court, of three
judges, dismissing a bill to set aside, in part, two orders
of the Interstate Commerce Commission. The court
below delivered a per curiam opinion which seems not to
have been reported.
Mr. Samuel W. Moore, with whom Messrs. Frank H.
Moore and Cyrus Crane were on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. Daniel W. Knowlton, Chief Counsel, Interstate
Commerce Commission, with whom Solicitor General
Thacher, Assistant to the Attorney General O'Brian, and
Mr. Nelson Thomas were on the brief, for the United
States et al.
MR. CHIEF JusTIcE HUGHES delivered the opinion of
the Court.
This suit was brought to set aside two orders of the
Interstate Commerce Commission of November 4, 1929,
and July 30, 1929, respectively (155 I. C. C. 775), relating to the transportation by carriers subject to the Interstate Commerce Act of private passenger-train cars, including so-called office cars, of other carriers free or at
other than published tariff rates. The orders are the
same as those under review in Louisville & Nashville R.
Co. v. United States, ante, p. 740. Treating the two orders, which deal with the same subject matter , as substantially one requirement, the appellants challenge it" so
far as it prohibits the movement of an office car of another
carrier upon such {erms as the interested parties may mutually agree upon, when such office car is occupied exclusively by officers and employees of the company owning
the car and traveling upon business in connection with
the operation of their own railroad." They also object
to so much of the order as, purports to regulate movements which are-strictly intrastate. The District Court,

762

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

constituted as required by'statute, sustained the orders
of the Commission and dismissed the petition.
This suit in the District Court for the Western District
of Missouri was begun in February, 1930, sometime after
the suit of the Louisville & Nashville R. Co., supra, assailing tha same orders, was brought in the District Court
for the Western District of Kentucky. The petitioners
in both suits were parties to the proceeding in which the
orders of the Commission were made. The United States
and the Interstate Commerce Commission made no reference in their answers in the present case to the pendency
of the earlier suit, but after decree in that suit the Commission amended its answer herein, setting up that decision as an affirmative defense. The defense was that the
Urgent Deficiencips Act of October 22, 1913 (c. 32, 38
Stat. 208, 219-221; U. S. C. Tit. 28, §§ 43-47) which
transferred to the several District Courts the jurisdiction
to enjoin orders of the Commission, a jurisdiction formerly vested in the Comimerce Court, was not intended
to create conflicting jurisdictions among the several District Courts and, after the jurisdiction of one District
Court had been unsuccessfully inv;oked to enjoin an order
of the Commission, to permit the jurisdiction of another
District Court subsequently invoked to be exercised for
a similar purpose.
It is unnecessary to review the history of the legislation
authorizing suits to be brought to set aside orders of the
Interstate Commerce Commission. The effect of the Urgent Deficiencies Act was to redistribute the jurisdiction
of the Commerce Court. Vicksburg, Shreveport & P. Ry.
-Co.v. Anderson-Tully Co., 256 U. S. 408,414. The venue
provisions of the Urgent. Deficiencies Act (U. S. C., Tit.
28,§ 43) are as follows:
"The venue of any suit brought to enforce, suspend,
or set aside, in whole or in part, any order of the Interstate Commerce Commission shall be in the judicial dis-

KANSAS CITY SOU. RY. v. U. S.
760

Opinioni of the Court.

trict wherein is the residence of the party or any of the
parties upon whose petition the order was made, except
that where the order does not relate to transportation or
is not made upon the petition of any party the venue shall
be in the district where the matter complained of in the
petition before the commission arises, and except that
where the order does not relate either to transportation
or to a xnatter so complained of before the commission
tht matter covered by the order shall be deemed to arise
in the district where one of the petitioners in court has
either its pinbipatl jfice or its principal operating office.
In e sbuch transportation relates to a through shipment
the term 'destination' shall be construed as meaning
final destination of such shipment."
We find no provision of the applicable statutes which
deprives a District Court of jurisdiction of a suit brought
by a party entitled to attack an order of the Interstate
Commerce Commission in accordance with these provisions as to venue. But the existence of jurisdiction does
not mean that it must be exercised and that grounds
may not be shown for staying the hand of the Court.
Compare Langnes v. Green, ante, p. 531. The appellants,
upon proper application could, have been allowed to
intervene in the earlier suit brought for the same purpose
in the District Court for the Western District 'of Kentucky (U. S. C., Tit. 28, § 45a) and coild have presented
there all of their grounds of attack upon the orders in
question. The orders of the Interstate Commerce Commission may apply throughout the country, and there
may be cases where the convenience of the parties and
the interests of. justice may make appropriate separate
suits by different parties affected by the same order. The
question is thus one for the sound discretion of the District Court, in which such a suit is brought, to determine
whether it should be-permitted to continue or proceedings
therein should be stayed, pending the final outcome of

764

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

an .earlier suit for the same purpose, to the end that there
may not be a multiplicity of suits without substantial
reason. As, however, the defendants here did not raise
the question of the pendency of the earlier suit until the
day of final hearing, several months after the suit was
begun, we see no reason for disturbing the action of the
District Court in this respect.
Upon the merits, the appellants present the argument
that a railway company, in the transportation or movement- of an office car of another carrier, acts in the capacity of a private carrier, or bailee, and retains full freedom of contract in relation to such transportation. There
is no doubt that common carriers subject to the Interstate
Commerce Act may have activities which lie outside the
performance of their duties as common carriers and are
not subject to the provisions of the Act. Santa Fe, Pres"cott& P. Ry. Co. v, GrantBrothers Constr.Co., 228 U. S.
177, 188; Terminal Taxicab Co. v. Public Utilities Comm.,
241 U. S. 252. But a common carrier dealing with transportation that is subject to the Act cannot escape its
statutory obligations by calling itself a private carrier as
to such transportation. This applies to. its transactions
with other carriers. See New York, N. H. & H. R. Co. v.
Interstate Commerce Comm., 200 U. S. 361, 391, 392;
Interstate Commerce Comm. v. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co.,
225 U. S; 326, 341, 342. 'Upon grounds which have been
stated in the opinion of the Court in the Louisvlle &
Nashville case, supra, we have concluded that, in view of
the facts found by the Commission, the transportation
of the cars in question falls within the provisions of the
Interstate Commerce Act, and that the order of the Commission in directing' the carriers to cease and desist from
transporting such cars free or at less than published transportation rates was within its authority.
With respect to the contention that the Commission's
order undertakes to regulate movements of office cars in

ABIE STATE BANK v. BRYAN.
760

765

Syllabus.

intrastate commerce, it is enough to say that no such complaint was made in the petition in this suit. The Commission's order is construed as intended to apply to transportation within the purview of the Interstate Commerce
Act, and no different application of it is disclosed by the
record.
Decree affirmed.
ABLE STATE BANK v. BRYAN, GOVERNOR OF
NEBRASKA, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF NEBRASKA.
No. 63. Argued January 22, 23, 1931.-Decided February 25, 1931.
1. A decision of this Court, rendered soon after the enactment of a
state law by which state banks were assessed for the establishment
and maintenance of a common fund for the protection of depositors, and upholding it as a then valid police regulation, does not
preclude banks on whose behalf the question was litigated from
maintaining a subsequent suit-to test the validity of later assessments in the light of later experience. P. 772.
2. The State Supreme Court, deciding that the state bank guaranty
law was not repugnant to the Fourteenth Amendment, ruled also
that the plaintiff banks were estopped by their conduct from
assailing its validity. Held that the latter. is not an independent
non-federal ground broad enough to sustain the judgment but is
interwoven with the federal question, and, therefore, this Court
has jurisdiction to review the case. P. 772.
3. The principle that a police regulation, valid when adopted, may
become invalid because in its operation it has proved to be confiscatory, implies that the right of protest when the regulation
becomes intolerable is not forfeited by darlier compliance with it.
P. 776.
So held where state banks, after defeat of their effort to have
the state bank guaranty law declared unconstitutional, endeavored
to do business under it and therein advertised -its purposes and
the contemplated advantages that led to its enactment, but -later,
in the light of further eperience, sued again to have it set aside.
4. On appeal from a. state court, this Court takes judicial notice of
statutes of that State, including those passed after the appeal was
taken. P. 778.

