520

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Counsel for Parties.

282 U. S.

the simple expedient of purchasing exempt ones with borrowed funds and paying $10,000 interest thereon, would
escape all taxation upon receipts from both 'sources. It
was proper to make provision to prevent such a possibility. The classification complained of is not arbitrary,
makes no improper discrimination, does not. result in defeating any guaranteed exemption, and was within the
power of Congress. The fact that respondent engaged in
the business of buying and selling is not important. See
Willcuts v. Bunn, ante, p. 216.
Reversed.
FULLERTON'LUMBER COMPANY v. CHICAGO,
MILWAUKEE, ST. PAUL & .PACIFIC RAILROAD
COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 47. Argued January 9, 1931.-Decided February 24, 1931.
Where a carrier accepts a check for the amount of freight charges,
and a loss is suffered as a result of its unjustifiable delay in presenting it, the bank in the meantime having failed, the question
whether the shipper is relieved of liability depends upon the general
law applicable to payment by check and not upon any provision
of the Interstate Commerce Act. P. 521.
36 F. (2d) 180, reversed

CERTIORARI, 281 U. S. 709, to review a judgment of the
Circuit Court of Appeals which -affirmed a judgment of
the District Court in favor of he railroad company in an
action to recover freight charges.
Mr. Stanley S. Gillam for petitioner.
Mr. A. C. Erdall,with whom Messrs. F. W. Root, 0. W.
Dynes, and C. 0. Newcomb were on the brief, for
respondent.

LUMBER CO. v. CHICAGO, M., ST. P. & P. R. CO. 521
Opinion of the Court.

520

IR. JusTIcE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The Chicago, Milwaukee, Saint Paul &'Paific Railroad
Company brought this action in the federal coirt for
Minnesota to recover frnm the Fullerton Lumber Company freight charges on a carload of coal shipped, to it.
The case was tried without a jury. The defence was payment. It appeared that, upon delivery of the car, the
carrier had, as customary, accepted the defendant's check
oh a local bank for the amount of the charges; that it had
delayed presenting the check for payment; and that meanwhile the bank had failed. The defendant contended
that it was relieved from liability because of the carrier's
unjustifiable delay in presenting the check. The trial
court ruled that the Interstate Commerce Act requires that
a carrier's charges be paid strictly in currency; and that
since the check had not been paid, the defendant was liable
even if the carrier's failure to receive the money was due
wholly to its own negligence. Judgment entered for the r
carrier -was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals. 36'
F. (2d) 180. This Court granted a writ of certiorari,
281 U. S. 709.
It has long been settled that payment of a carrier's
charges must be made in money; and that the payment
must be cash as distinguished from credit.1 The purpose
Conference Ruling No. 207 of Interstate Commerce Commission
(September 15, 1906); Louisville & Nashville R. Co. v. Mottley, 219
U. S. 467, 476; Chicago, Indianapolis& Louisville Ry..Co. v. United
States, 219 U. S. 486; Chicago & North Western Ry. Co. v. Lindell,
281 U. S. 14, 16. Compare Ex parte No. 73, 57 I. C. C. 591, 596;
63 I. C. C. 375; 69 I. C. C. 351. Rules promulgated June 4, 1920,

permitted the carrier to extend credit for ninety-six hours after delivery, and provided that "the mailing [within this prescribed pe-

riod] by the shipper of valid checks, drafts, or money orders which
are satisfactory to the carrier," should be deemed -proper payment.Ex parte No. 73, Rule 5, 57 I. C. C. 596, 596b.

522

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Syllabus.

282 U. S.

of the requirement is solely to prevent rebates or unjust
discrimination and to ensure observance of the tariff rates.
Compare Chicago & North Western Ry. Co. v. Lindell,
281 U. S. 14, 16. The Interstate Commerce Act does not
in terms prescribe that the charges shall be paid in
money; that is, in coin or currency. There is no reason
for denying to the parties the convenience and safety incident to making payment, in accordance with the prevailing usage of business, by means of a check payable on
demand drawn on a going bank in which the drawer has
an ample deposit.
Whether in the case at bar the defendant is liable depends, not upon any provision of the Interstate Commerce Act, but upon the rules of law generally applicable
to payment by check. These, and other questions which
have been argued, need not be considered by us.
Reversed.
UNITED STATES ET AL. v. ATLANTA, BIRMINGHAM & COAST RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.

No. 88. Argued January 29, 30, 1931.--Decided February 24, 1931.

1. A passage in a report of the Interstate Cqmmerce Commission
specifying the maximum amount the Commission finds may be
included by a railroad company in its balance sheet statement as
representing investment in newly acquired road and equipment,
and notifying the 6ompany that it will be expected to adjust its
accounts in accordance with the findinj within. 60 days from service of the report, is not an "order" of the Commission, and
Jurisdiction of a suit to annul it is not conferred on the District
Court of three judges by the Urgent Deficiencies Act of October
22, 1913. P. 527.
Such a report can not be considered as an order, for purposes of
attack, by_ reading it in connection' with an earlier certificate of

