OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U.S.

liability is imposed is the common carrier. The'statute is
not like the Hours of Service Act of March 4, 1907, c. 2939,
§ 3, 34 Stat. 1415; Code, 'Title 45, § 63; that in terms extends the liability to officers and agents. It seems to us
plain that as between the Board of Harbor Commissioners
and California the carrier here is the State, by which it
is agreed that the Road was owned and operated, which
received such pay as was required for the work that was
done, and which did the work for the purpose of facilitating the commerce of its principal port. The principal and
its agents cannot both be the' common carriers aimed at.
One is and the other is not subjected to the penalty. One
is superior, the other inferior. The superior is the one
that operated the road and the one whose commands the
others were bound to obey.
The suit is brought against the appellants individually.
This is conceded by the Government and sufficiently appears from the declaration and from the judgment against
them by name, entered"after they had ceased to be members of the Board. Manifestly if we are right in what we
have said the judgment is wrong and we are relieved from
the duty of considering whether the Safety Appliance Act
should be construed to embrace the State.
An answer to other questions proposed is unnecessary
because of our conclusion that the judgment against the
defendants cannot be sustained.
Judgment reversed.
PARAMOUNT

FAMOUS LASKY CORPORATION
v. UNITED STATES.

ET A.

APPEAL..ROA1 THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 83. Argued October 27, 1930.-Decided November 24, 1930.
Ten corporations, competitors in the business of supplying the
film prints used by exhibitors of motion pictures throughout the
Union and controlling 60% of that business, agreed amongst themselves to contract with exhibitors for future exhibition of pictures

PARAMOUNT FAMOUS CORP. v. U. S.
30

31

Syllabus.

only -by a standard form of contract which, in connection with
certain rules, required, among other things: That disputes and
claims under the contract be submitted to a board of arbitration;
that the award be accepted as conclusive; that, upon failure of the
contracting exhibitor to submit to arbitration or to abide by an
award, the distributor party to that.contract, and all others having
like contracts with such exhibitor, must demand security from him
on each of their contracts; that those to whom he failed to pay
security within a time fixed must suspend service under their contracts until he paid it or complied with the award; that when
service under a contract had been so suspended ten days, the distributor party might cancel it; and that no distributor, having so
suspended service, should resume it before the exhibitor furnished
the security or obeyed the award. Held:
1: That the necessary and inevitable tendency of the agreement
and combination is to produce material and unreasonable restraint
of interstate commerce in violation of the Sherman Act. - P. 41.
2. The fact that the standard exhibition c~ntract and rules of
arbitration were evolved after six years of discussion and experimentation does not show that they were either normal or reasonable regulations. The arrangement existing between the parties is
unusual and necessarily and directly tends to destroy the kind of
competition to which the public has long looked for protection.
P. 43.
3. Th6 Sherman Act seeks to'protect the public against evils
commonly incident to the unreasonable destruction of competition,
and no length of discussion or experimentation amongst parties to
a combination which produces the inhibited result can give validity
to their action. Id.
4. It may be that arbitration is well adapted to the needs of the
motion picture industry; but when under the guise of arbitration
parties enter into unusual arrangements which unreasonably suppress normal competition their action becomes illegal. Id.
5. In order to establish violation of the Sherman Act it is not
necessary to show that the challenged arrangement suppresses all
competition between the parties or .that the parties themselv6s are
discontented with the arrangement. The interest of the public in
the preservation of competition is the primary consideration.
P. 44.
6. The prohibitions of the statute cannot be evaded by good
motives. Id.
34 F. (2d) 984, affirmed.

32

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Argument for Appellants.

282 U.S.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court condemning

an agreement and combination of appellants under the
Sherman Act.
Messrs. Cornelius W. Wickersham -and John W. Davis,
with whom Messrs. Henry W. Taft, Paxton Blair,Arthur
L. Fisk, Jr., and Gabriel L. Hess were on the brief, for
appellants.
The standard contract and rules of arbitration, having
been evolved after six years of discussion and experimentation, are reasonable and normal regulations for the intelligent conduct of the industry; so that whatever restraint they produce falls short of unlawful coercion.
Chicago Board of Trade v. United States, 246 U. S. 231,
238; United States v. American Tobacco Co., 221 U. S.
106, 179; Maple FlooringAssn. v. United States, 268 U. S.
563, 583; United States v. Addyston Pipe Co., 85 Fed. 271,
283, affirmed, 175 U. S. 211, 248.
That the contract was discussed at a trade practice
conference and approved by the Federal Trade Commission is evidence of its reasonableness.
The impetus toward standardization came from the
exhibitors themselves. A uniform contract had become a
trade necessity. They were largely responsible for its
terms. These aim to combat specific evils and are reason'ably commensurate with the necessities of the case.
The proced--re adopted and the standardization resulting are in line with a current industrial trend. Arbitration is well 'adapted to the needs of the motion picture
industry. The necessity for the speedy termination of
disputes results from the concatenation of interests in
each particular film. Not only is the carrying on of
litigation a costly process, involving the retention by the
distributors of local counsel in scores of different towns
where a dispute with an exhibitor might *arise, but it is
costly by reason of its slowness. For during the pendency

PARAMOUNT FAMOUS CORP. v. U. S.
Argument for Appellants.

30

of a suit over a film, the distributor can do nothing to
mitigate his damages, and by the end of the/litigation the
film may have a greatly reduced rental value or none at
all. Similarly, an exhibitor at the end of a litigation
may find himself forced to exhibit a picture so ancient
that its exhibition would injuriously affect his good will.
Arbitration has an ethical aspect; it ha _ stabilized the
industry, improved its moral tone and eliminated causes
of friction. Current public policy, as manifested in recent
statutes, favors arbitration.
The manner in which the contract and rules have
worked out in practice, and the significant absence of
complaints, reflect their reasonable character. There has
been no reduction of competition.
The enforcement methods are reasonable and have been
trade.
applied fairly by the film boards of
It is not at all uncommon, in the case of a credit bureau
or association, for all -the members of the association,
either by agreement or following their individual business
judgment, to refuse to deal with a Icustomer listed as delinquent. This practice has over and over again been
sanctioned by the courts and is regarded as perfectly
proper. United States v. Fur Dressers Assn., 5 F. (2d)
869; Putnal v. Inman, 76 Fla. 553; Brewster v. Miller's
Sons Co., 101 Ky. 368; Reynolds v. Plumbers' Assn., 30
Misc. 709, 63 N. Y. Supp. 303; Delz v. Winfree, 6 Tex. Civ.
App. 11; Woodhouse v. Powles, 43 Wash. 617. Cf. Cement Mfrs. Assn. v. United States, 268 U. S. 588, 604;
United States v. King, 229 Fed. 275, 278.
The exhibitors have given unequivocal evidence of their
endorsement of the contract and rule§. The decree is inconsistent with the facts stipulated of record as well as
with the court's findings of fact.
The injunction should be directed solely against the
so-called "supplemental agreements."
22110'-31-3

34

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Argument for the United States.

282 U.S.

Assistant to the Attorney General O'Brian, with whom
Attorney General Mitdhell and Messrs. Claude R. Branch,
Charles H. Weston, and C. Stanley Thompson, Special
Assistants to the Attorney General, were on the brief,
for the United States.
The distributors of motion picture films, who together
control the business of distribution, have agreed not to
contract with any exhibitor for the future exhibition of
films unless the exhibitor accepts the arbitration provi-"
sions of the standard exhibition contract. These provisions require the exhibitor to submit all claims or controversies arising under that contract to arbitration
according to the rules of arbitration incorporated therein.
These provisions and rules further permit and require
enforcement of arbitration and arbitration awards by a
simultaneous demand, by every distributor having a contract with an exhibitor who has not complied with an.
arbitration award on any contract with a distributor, fo;
payment of security on every existing contract and, if the
required security is not paid, for suspension of service on
his contracts. The distributors also may cancel any contract upon which service has been so suspended for a
period of ten days. This Court has frequently held that
similar combinations not to deal, or to deal only on conditions imposed by the combination, constitute an illegal
restraint of trade. EasternStates Lumber Assn. v. United
States, 234 U. S. 600; Anderson v. Shipowners Assn., 272
U. S. 359; Montague & Co. v. Lowry, 193 U. S. 38;
Loewe v. Lawlor, 208 U. S. 274; Binderup v. Pathe Exchange, 263 U. S. 291; Thomsen v. Cayser, 243 U. S. 66;
Addyston Pipe Co. v. United States, 175 U. S. 211; Cement Mfrs. Assn. v, United States, 268 U. S. 588; Wolff
Company v. Industrial Court, 262 U., S. 522; In re Debs,
158 U. S. 564, 581; Majestic Theatre Co. v. United
Artists Corp., 43 F. (2d) 991.

PARAMOUNT FAMOUS CORP. v. U. S.
30

Argument for the United States.

The means adopted by appellants to enforce such arbitration by a concerted demand for the payment of security, to be followed by suspending service on the contract
if security is not forthcoming, is also an unreasonable
restraiit of trade. This Court has indicated that it is
illegal for members of a trade group to agree not to extend
credit to customers whose accounts with any member of
the group are overdue. Cement Mfrs. Assn. v. United
States, 268 U. S. 588.
The arbitration provisions of the standard exhibition
contract and the manner in which they have been enforced are unfair and unjust to the exhibitors. All exhibitors outside the State of New York--are compelled to
arbitrate under the law of a foreign jurisdiction. The
situation of distributors in so arbitrating is very different,
since they are large companies guided by New York
counsel Distributors can always appear in person before
the arbitration boards, which sit in certain central cities
where the distributors have exchange managers. Exhibitors, on the other hand, i-very many cases can not afford
the time or money necessary to travel to these cities to
present their arbitration cases in person. The secretary
of the arbitration board participates in their deliberations
and frequently the secretary of the board is the secretary
of the local film board, an association of the local exchange
managers of the distributors. The distributor representatives on the arbitration boards are chosen by a highly
organized group in constant personal contact with each
other. There is no comparable organization or personal
contact of the exhibitors from whom exhibitor members
of the arbitration boards are selected. In addition, the
general counsel of the distributors' national organization
has influenced the decisions of the arbitration boards by
constant interpretation, instruction, and advice to the
distributor members of these boards. The records of an

36

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the. Court.

282 U.S.

arbitration board which were stipulated to be typical of
the operation of other arbitration boards show that almost
all claims presented by distributors were decided in their
favor, although exhibitors were successful in only a little
over half of the claims presented by them and also, and
perhaps more important, that over ninety-four per cent.
of the claims on which the board acted -were filed by
distributors.
The history and antecedents of the arbitration pro;
visions of the standard contract indicate that a great
majority of the exhibitors whose theaters are not owned
or controlled by distributors or producers disapprove these
provisions.
MR. Jus cE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
By this proceeding the United States seek* to prevent•
further violation of Section 1, Act of Congress approved.
July 2, 1890 (Sherman Act), c. 647, 26 Stat. 209, through
an alleged combination and conspiracy to restrain interstate commerce in motion picture films.
Appellants are the Paramount Famous Lasky Corpora,tion and nine other Corporations (Distributors), producers and distributors throughout the Union of sixty per
cent of the films used for displaying motion pictures by
some 25,000 theatre owners (Exhibitors); the Motion
Picture Producers and Distributors of America, a corporation with class "B" membership composed of the abovementioned Distributors; and thirty-two Film Boards of
Trade, which severally function within certain defined
Regions.
Each Distributor produces and then distributes films
through its own exchanges maintained in thirty-two centrally located cities-Albany, Atlanta, Chicago, Los
Angeles, etc. Each of these exchanges has a manager and
under his supervision contracts are made for the use of

PARAMOUNT FAMOUS CORP. v. U. S.
30

Opinion of the Court.

his Distributor's films within the designated territory or

region and thereafter placed in the hands of the Exhibitors. Other Distributors, who with Appelants control
98% of the entire business, also have managers with like
duties in the same cities. In each Region all of these
managers are associated through and constitute the entire
membership of the local Film Board of Trade.
Under the. common practice, in the Spring, when most
of the pictures are still only in contemplation, each Distributor announces its intended program of distribution
for twelve months. After this announcement Exhibitors
are solicited to enter into written contracts for permission
to display such of the pictures as they desire. And as no
Distributor can offer enough pictures to supply the average Exhibitor's full requirement, he must deal with
several
Under an agreement amongst themselves Appellant
Distributors will only contract with Exhibitors according
to the terms of the Standard Exhibition Contract, dated
May 1, 1928. Ordinarily neither party gives security for
compliance with such agreements, by cash deposit or
otherwise.
This Standard Contract is an elaborate document, covering eight pages of the record. Under it the Distributor
licenses the Exhibitor to display specified photo plays at
a designated theatre on definite dates. Provision is made
for cash payment three days in advance of any shipment,
time and place of delivery, return of the prints, etc., etc.
Section 18 (copied in the margin)* provides in substance
that each party shall submit any controversy that may
*Eighteenth. The parties hereto agree that before either of them
shall resort to any court to determine, enforce or protect the legal
rights of either hereunder, each shall submit to the Board of Arbitration (established or constituted pursuant to the Rules of Arbitration
filed with the American Arbitration Association, 342 Madison Avenue,
New York City, bearing date May 1, 1928 and identified by the sig-

38

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U.S..

arise to a Board of Arbitration, in the city where the Distributor's Exchange is located, established under and controlled by written rules adopted May 1, 1928; accept as
conclusive the findings of this Board; and forego the right
to trial by jury. And fur ther:
"In the event that the Exhibitor shall fail or refuge to
consent to submit to arbitration any claim or controversy
arising under this or any other Standard Exhibition Connatures of the Contract Committee appointed at the 1927 Motion
Picture Trade Practice Conference, a copy of which will be furnished
to the Exhibitor upon request in the city wherein is situated the exchange of the Distributor from which the Exhibitor is served or if
there be no such Board of Arbitration in such city then to the Board
.of Arbitration in the city nearest thereto (unless the parties hereto
agree in writing that such submission shall be made to a Board of
Arbitration located in another specified city), all claims and controversies arising hereunder for determination pursuat to .the said Rules
of Arbitration and the rules of procedure and practice adopted by'
such Board of Arbitration.
The parties hereto further agree to abide by and forthwith comply
with any decision and award of such Board of Arbitration in any such
arbitration proceeding, and agree and consent that any such decision
or award shall be enforceable in or by any court of competent jurisdiction pursuant to the laws of such jurisdiction now or hereafter in
force; and each party hereto hereby waives the right of trial by jury
upon any issue arisihg under this contract, and agrees to accept as
conclusive the findings of fact made by any, such Board of Arbitration, and consents to the introduction of such findings in evidence in
any judicial proceeding.
In the event that the Exhibitor shall fail or refuse to consent to
submit to'arbitration any claim or controversy arising under this or
any other Standard Exhibition Contract which the Exhibitor may
have with the Distributor or any other distributor or to abide by and
forthwith comply with any decision or award of such Board of Arbitrati.on upon any such claim or controversy so submitted, the Distributor may, .at its option, demand, for its protection and as security
for the performance by the Exhibitor of this and all other existing
cont#i'ts between -the parties hereto, payment by the Exhibitor of an
adcitional stum not exceeding $500 under each existing contract, such
sum to be retained by the Distributor until the complete performance

-

PARAMOUNT FAMOUS
30

dORP. v. U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tract which the Exhibitor may have with the Distributor
or any other distributor or to abide by and forthwith
comply with any decision or award of such Board of Arbitration upon any such claim or controversy so submitted,
the Distributor may, at its pption, demand, for its protection and as security for the performance by the Exhibitor
of this and all other existing contracts between the parties
hereto, payment by the Exhibitor of an additional sum not
exceeding $500 under each existing contract, such sum to
of all such contracts and then applied, at the option of the Distributor, against any sums finally due or against any damages detefinined
by said Board of Arbitration to be due to the Distributor, the balance
'if any to be returned to the Exhibitor; and in the event of the Exhibitor's failure to pay such additonal sum within seven (7) days
after demand, the Distributor may by written notice to the Exhibitor
suspend service hereunder until-said sum shall be paid and/or terminate this contract.
In the event that the Distributor shall fail or refuse to consent to
the submission to arbitration of any claim or controversy arising
under this or any other Standard Exhibition Contract providing for
arbitration which the Distributor may have with the Exhibitor, or to
abide by and forthwith comply with any decision or award of such
Board of Arbitration upon any such claim or controversy so submitted, within the number of days specified in-Article TwentySecond
opposite the name of the City in which such Board of Arbitration is
located, the Exhibito4 may at his option terminate this and any other
existing contract between the Exhibitor and the Distributor by mailing notice by registeied mail within two (2) weeks after such failure
or refusal, and in addition the Distributor shall not be entitled to
redress from such Board of Arbitration upon any claim or claims
against any exhibitor until the Distributor shall have complied with
such decision, and in the meanwhile the provisions of the first paragraph of this Article Eighteenth shall not apply to any such claim or
claims.
Any such termination by either party, however, shall be without
prejudice to any other right or remedy which the party so terminating
may have by reason of any such breach of contract by the other
party.
The provisions of this contract relating to arbitration shall be construed according to the law of the State of New York.

40

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U.S.

be retained by the Distributor until the complete perfor'mance of all such contracts and then applied, at the option
of the Distributor, against any sums finally due or against
any damages determined by said Board of Arbitration to
be due to the Distributor, the balance, if any to be returned to the Exhibitor; and in the event of the Exhibitor's.failure to pay such additional sum within seven
(7) days after demand, the Distributor may by written
notice to the Exhibitor suspend service hereunder until
said sum sal be paid and/or terminate this contract."
-The Rules of Arbitration provide for a Board, three of
whom shall be members of the local Film Board of Trade
and three proprietors or managers of theatres in its region.
This Arbitration Board shall have power to determine the
controversy, nake findings, direct what shall be done with
respect to the dispute; "and shall fix the maximum
amount" (not exceeding $500) which each Distributor
may demand as security pursuant to .the arbitration clause
in the event of the failure of the Exhibitor to submit to
arbitration or to comply with the award. The secretary
of the Board of Arbitration is required to notify the secretary of the Film Board of Trade of the name and address
of each Exhibitor found to have refused to arbitrate or
comply with an award, and the maximum amount of
security (not above $500) found by the Board. "On
receipt of 'any such notice, each member having a contract
(or representing a distributor having a contract) containing the arbitration clause with any such exhi~itor shall
demand payment by such exhibitor of such sum as in the
judgment of such member or distributor shall be sufficient to protect such member or distributor in the performance of each contract with such exhibitor. Said
sum shall not exceed the actual value of any print thereafter. to be delivered under each such contract plus the
maximum amount fixed by the Board of Arbitration as

PARAMOUNT FAMOUS CORP. v. U. S.
30

Opinion of the Court.

aforesaid. Thereafter each distributor (represented in
the membership) to whom such exhibitor shall have failed
within seven (7), days to pay the amount of security so
demanded by such distributor shall proceed to suspend
service under each such contract until such exhibitor shall
have furnished such security or complied with the decision
of such Arbitration Board. If service under any such
contract shall be so suspended for a period of ten days
such contract, at the option of the distributor, may then
be cancelled. No member or distributor having so suspended service under any such contract with such exhibitor shall thereafter resume service under any such
contract unless and until such exhibitor shall have'furnished said security to such member or distributor or shall
have coinplied with the decision of the Arbitration Board.
Upon the happening of either of such events service under
such contract shall be promptly resumed by such member
or distributor."
The record discloses that ten competitors in interstate
commerce, controlling sixty per cent of the entire film
business, have agreed to restrict their liberty of action by
refusing to contract for display of pictures except upon
a Standard Form which provides for compulsory joint
action by them in respect of dealings with one who fails to
observe such a contract with any Distributor, all with the
manifest purpose to coerce the Exhibitor and limit the
freedom of trade.
The United States maintain that the necessary and
inevitable tendency of the outlined agreement and combination (described with greater detail in the opinion
below) is to produce material and unreasonable restraint
of interstate commerce in violation of the Sherman Act.
Eastern States Lumber Assn. v. United States, 234 U. S.
600, 614; Binderu v. Pathe Exchange, 263 U. S.291, 312.

'The court below accepted this view and directed. an ap-

42

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U.S.

propriate injunction against future action under the
unlawful plan. We agree with its conclusion and the
challenged decree must be affirmed.
The Appellants claim: (1) The Standard Exhibition
Contract and Rules of Arbitration dated May 1, 1928,
iaving been evolved after six years of discussion and
experimentation, are reasonable and normal regulations;
so that whatever restraint follows falls short of unlawful
coercion. '(2) Arbitration is well adapted to the needs of
the motion picture industry. (3) The manner in which
the Contract and Rules have worked out in practice, and
the sigiificant absence of complaints, reflect their reasonable character. (4) The decree is inconsistent with the
stipulated facts, also with the Court's findings of fact.
"Founded upon broad conceptions of public policy, the
prohibitions of the statute [Sherman Act] were enacted to
prevent not the mere injury to an individual which would
arise from the doing of the prohibited acts, but the harm
to the general public which would be occasioned by the
evils which it was contemplated would be prevented, and
h1ence not only the prohibitions of the statute but the
remedies which it provided were co-extensive with such
conceptions." Wilder Mfg. Co. v. Corn Products Co., 236
U. S. 165, 174. "The purpose of the Sherman Act is to
prohibit monopolies, contracts and combinations which
probably would unduly interfere with the free exercise of
their rights by those engaged, ,orwho wish to engage, in
trade and commerce--in a word to preserve the right of
freedom to trade." United States v. Colgate & Co., 250
U. S. 300, 307. "The fundamental purpose of the Sherman Act was to secure equality of opportunity and to
protect the public against evils commonly -incident to destruction of competition through monopolies and combinations in restraint of trade." Ramsay Co. v. Bill Posters
Assn., 260 U. S: 501, 512. "The Sherman Act was in-

PARAMOUNT FAMOUS CORP. v. U. S.
30

Opinion of the Court.

tended to secure equality of opportunity and to protect the
public against evils commonly incident to monopolies and
those abnormal contracts and combinations which tend
directly to suppress the conflict for advantage called competition-the play of the contending forces ordinarily engendered by an honest desire for gain." United States
v. American Oil Co., 262 U. S. 371, 388.
The fact that the Standard Exhibition Contract and
Rules of Arbitration were evolved after six years of discussion and experimentation does not show that they were
either normal or reasonable regulations. That the arrangement existing between the parties cannot be classed
among "those normal and usual agreements in aid of
trade and commerce" spoken of in EasternStates Lumber
Assn. v.United States, supra, 612, is manifest. Certainly
it is unusual and we think it necessarily and directly tends
to destroy "the kind of competition to which the public
has long looked for protection." United States v. American Oil Co., supra, 390.
The Sherman Act seeks to protect the public against
evils commonly incident to the unreasonable destruction
of competition and no length of discussion or experimentation amongst parties to a combination which produces the inhibited result can give validity to their action.
Congress has so legislated "as to prevent resort to practices which unduly restrain competition or unduly obstruct the free flow of such commerce, and private choice
of means must yield to the national authority thus
exerted." EasternStates Lumber Assn. v. United States,
supra, 613.
It may be that arbitration is well-adapted to the needs
of the motion picture industry; but when under the guise
of arbitration parties enter into unusual arrangements
which unreasonably suppress normal competition their
action becomes illegal.

44

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
'Syllabus.

282 U.S.

In order to establish violation of the Sherman Act it
is not necessary to show that the challenged arrangement suppresses all competition between the parties or
that the parties themselves are discontented with the
arrangement. The interest of the public in the preservation of competition is the primary consideration;
The
prohibitions of the statute cannot ". . . be evaded by
good motives, The law is its own measure of right and
wrong, of what it permits, or forbids, and the judgment
of the courts cannot be set up against it in a supposed
accommodation of its policy with the good intention of
parties; and it may be, of some good results." Standard,
SanitaryMfg. Co. v. United States, 226 U; S. 20, 49.
Upon examination of the record we cannot say that
the decree of the court below is inconsistent with the stipulated facts or with proper regard to what that court
held in respect of the facts,
The challenged decree must be
,_
Afflrmed.
UNITED STATES v. FIRST NATIONAL PICTURES,
INCORPORATED, ET AL.
APPEAL -FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OFt THE UNITED STATES
-FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

'No. 95. Argued October 27, 28, 1930.-Decided November 24, 1930.
Ten*competing corporations, which controlled 60% of the business of
supplying the motion picture films used by theatres throughout the,
Union and had agreed amongst themselves 'upon a standard form
of licensing contract for dealing with exhibitors (see Paramount
Corporationv. United States, ante, p. 30;) thereafter combined with
other distributors, who with themselves controlled 98% of the film
distribution, in establishing certain rules. Under these, whenever a
theatre changed hands, the credit and business arrangements of the
new proprietor were inquired into, partly through an elaborate
questionnaire addressed to him, special attention being given to his
willingness and agreement to assume contracts for film service exist-

