DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. COLTS.
55

Statement of the Case.

We have not failed to note the decision of the Court of
Claims in Steedmam v. United States, 63 C. Cls. 226, as
well as the decision of the Board of Tax Appeals in ,Bartlett v. Commissioner, 16 B. T. A. 811, 816, but in so far
as they conflict with the foregoing conclusions, they are
disapproved.
Judgment affirmed.
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. COLTS.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

1o. 96. Argued October 23, 1930.-Decided November 24, 1930.
1. Article III, § 2, cl. 3, of the Constitution, which provides that
"The trial of all crimes, except in cases of impeachment, shall, be
by jury," must be interpreted in the light of the common law, according to which petty offenses might be proceeded against summarily before a magistrate sitting without a jury. P. 72.
2. It is settled that there may be many offenses called "petty offenses" which do not rise to the degree of "crimes" within the
meaning of Article III, and in respect of which Congress may dispense with a jury trial. Id.
3. Whether a given offense is to be classed as a crime, so as to
require a jury trial, or as a petty offense, triable summarily without a jury, depends primarily upon the nature of the offense.
P. 73.
4. Driving at a forbidden rate of speed and so recklessly "as to
endanger property and individuals," in violation of the District of"
Columbia Traffic Act, is an offense which is maum in se and of a
serious character, amounting to a public nuisance indictable at
common law, and is a "crime " within the constitutional guarantee
of trial by jury. Art. III, § 2, cl.
3. Id.
38 F. (2d) 535, affirmed.

U. S.716, to review a judgment of the
Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia, reversing
a judgment of the Police Court, which had denied to the
CERTmORAR, 281

64

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Argment for Petitioner.

282 U.S.

respondent a jury trial upon an information against him
charging reckless driving.
Mr. Robert E. Lynch, with whom Messrs. Wm. W.
Bride and Robert P. Reeder were on the brief,, for
petitioner.
The respondent had" no right to trial by jury in this
case unless the Constitution gave him that right.
Congress may require the trial of petty offenses without
a jury. Callanv. Wilson, 127 U. S. 540; Schick v. United
States, 195 U. S. 65.
In Callan v. Wilson, the defendant was sentenced to
pay a fine of twenty-five dollars or undergo inprisonment
for thirty days; but that was not the maximum which
might have been imposed. "It is what sentence can be
imposed under the law, not what was imposed, that is
the material consideration." United States v. Moreland,
258 U: S. 433. While no statute dealt with conspiracy
directly, Rev. Stats., Dist. Col., § 92, provided that laws
which were in force in Maryland on February 27, 1801,
should continue in force within the District of Columbia,
and conspiracy was a common-law misdemeanor in Maryland, State v. Buchanan, 5 H. & J. 317, (see Bishop,
Criminal Law, 9th ed., I, 452; Russell, Crimes, 7th ed.,
I, p. 10,) and, therefore, in the District of Columbia.
One who was convicted of that offense Could not have
been sentenced to the penitentiary, Rev. Stats., Dist, Col.,
§ 1144, but he could have been sentenced to jail, Rev.
Stats., Dist. Col., §§ 1049, 1054; and imprisonment for a
common4aw misdemeanor was at the discretion. of the
court and was not limited to one year. See United States
v. Marshall, 17 D. C. 34; Palmer v. Lenovitz, 35 App.
D. C. 303. The offense was being punished as a commonlaw offense, for which very serious punishment might have
been imposed. The case was, therefore, unlike the present
one, for here the offense, which was forbidden by statute.

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. COLTS.
Argument for Petitioner.

63

cannot be punished by a larger fine than one hundred dollars or by a longer imprisonment than thirty days. The
essential point of similarity, as found by the court below,
is simply the fact that reckless driving was also an offense
at common law.
It is true that in CaIlan v. Wilson the Court referred
to the common law as determining whether an offense
was of the class or grade which was triable by a jury at
common law. It substantially said that the clauses-of
the Constitution which provide for trial by jury are to
be read in the light of the rule of the common law,
which requires trial by jury in criminal cases but exempts
petty offenses from this requirement. But the Court-did
not take the position that all offenses must remain for
all time as they were at common law. It did not deny
that Congress may provide serious punishment for acts
which were regarded as innocent a hundred ahd forty
years ago, and punish lightly, or not at all, acts which
were regarded as. serious crimes by our ancestors. Certainly, if offenses which were once petty are to be punished severely, a trial by jury must be allowed; and it
must be equally true that, if Congress decides that an
offense shall be given a petty punishment, persons who
are accused of such acts may be tried as for petty offenses.* As said in People v. Craig, 195 N. Y. 190;, It Ls
not the mere name of a crime but the punishment therefor that characterizes it." The decision Mn Callan v.
Wilson, does not deny the power of Congress to erect its
own standards- as to the seriousness of offenses at thie
present day, to limit the punishment accordingly, and to
order the trial of an offense which it treats as petty by
summary procedure.
In Schicb v. United States, 195 U. S. 65, the only punishment provided for the offense was a fine of fifty dollars.
The Court said that the offense was a petty one for which
Congress might have required trial by the judge alone.
22110o--31--5

66

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Arg ment. for Petitioner.

282 U.S.

Its statements that the Constitution does not require jury
trial of petty offenses, and that the nature of the offense
and theamount of the punishment deternne whether the
offense is serious or petty, mark the extent of the holding,
for it cannot be supposed that the Court intended to class
all misdemeanors as petty offenses.
The -Courthas thus conceded that the Constitution does
not require trial by jury in the case of petty offenses,but
it-has not shown precisely what offenses are to be classed
as, "petty."
,'Before the Constitution was adopted there 'were many•
offenses, both in England and America, in the trial-for
which no jury was allowed, These included, not on6ly
offenses., which might be punished y fines, but many
others in which corporal punishment or imprisonment
might, be imposed. *Blackstone, Commentaries, IV, 280;
Paley, Summary Convictions, Introduction; Webb, Eng..
lish Local Government: Parish and County, 419; Jentk,
Short History of English Law, Eng. ed, 153, 154; Frankfurter and Corcoran, Petty: Federal Offenses.and the Constit ional Guaranty of Trial by Jury, 39 Harv. L. Rev.
925, 929.
Iii the American Colonies and States there were 'many
instances of 'laws for the trial of criminal offenses which
did not provide for the-participation of juries except, if
at all, on appeal.
-Article III and the Sixth- Amendment, established the
right to trial by jury in criminal prosecutions; but there
is nothing in the terms used, or in the circumstances or
discussions attefiding theii adoption, which'shows a requirement-of trial byj'ii- more comprehensive than was,
6bserved throughout the States at the time.
Decisions of many state courts support the position
that an offense such as is here involved, for which the
maximum 'punishment is -a' fine of one hundred dollars"
or-impAsnnjent of thirty days, may be tried by summary

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. COLTS.
63

Argument for Petitioner.

procedure. State v. Parker, 87 Fla. 181; Bray v. State,
140 Ala. 172; State v. Broms, 139 Minn. 402; State v.
Anderson, 165 Minn. 150; Byers v. Commonwealth, 42
Pa. St. 89; People v. Harding,189 N. Y. Supp. 657; Duffy
v. The People, 6 Hil's Rep. 75; Bell v. Nebraska, 104
Neb. 203; Latimer v. Wilson, 103 N. J. L. 159; McGear v.
Woodruff, 22 N. J. L. 213; State-v. Glenn, 54 Md. 572.
The offense of reckless driving in the District of Columbia, as defined in the Traffic Act, is a municipal offense,
notwithstanding the fact that the law was enacted by the
Congress of the United States. It was not created in a
criminal statute but by the Traffic Act of 1925, which
deals simply with local traffic conditions. The offense is
a common one. In a city of scarcely more than five
hundred thousand inhabitants there are almost seventeen
hundred charges of reckless driving tried before the one
court in a single year. (Report of the Comrmissioners
of the District of Columbia for the year ended June 30,
1929, p. 14.) And, as shown by the state cases herein
cited, the maximum punishment for a violation of this
portion of the Act is relatively light. In view of these
circumstances, a charge of reckless driving may properly
be tried without a jury.
The Traffic Act deals exclusively with the District of
Columbia and is a statute in the, nature of a municipal
regulation. Congress was dealing solelywith local conditions. It said that the operation of an automobile
in a certain manner constituted.ieckless driving. There
is nothing in the reports or debates prior to the enactment of the statute to indicate that Congress was attempting to revamp the common law offense of "fast" driving
in a "crowded or populous street." Because the offense
of reckless driving today may have one, or even more,
elements similar to a common law offense, that fact does
not make it a common law offense.

68

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Argument for Petitioner.

,282 U.S.

Assuming, without conceding, that, at the time of the
'adbption of the Constitution, the charge of-reckless driving was triable only by -jury, it is submitted that, in recenttimes, the offense hasbeen merely a petty one." The
determination of what punishments shall be considered
infamous is affected -by changes in public opinion from
one. age, to another. Ex parte Wilson, 114 U. S. 417;
Mackin V. United States, 117 U. S. 348; United States v.
Moreland, 258 U. S. 433., It is cear from the foregoing
decisions of this"Court that a breach of the peace-consisting of fast drivihg so as to-endanger the lives %nd
safety of the' citizens was not an indictable offense at
common law. Distinguishing United States v. Hart, 1
Pet. C.. 390.
At -the present day, all men
women travel much
Imore rapidly than was possible inand
1787. Doubtless there
'has been 'an accompanying change in the attitude of the.
public towards reckless' diivig and'in the effect of cor
v'ction upon an offender's standing i the community.
This' change in public opihion may be an important consideration in'determining whether the offense should now'
be''regarded' as a"petty one. _'The' fact that there are
seventeen hundred aiTests for reckless driving in the District of Columbia in a single year, shows not only the
need for as expeditious a trial as i compatible with law
and with -justice, but that -the offense 'is not being
regarded as a major one at the present time.
The Court of Appeals seized the phrase " indictable ' offense at,common law" as used in United States v. Hart,
I Pdt. C. C. 390, and concluded the offense of reckless
driving defined, in the Traffic Act' was an "indictable offense" and' therefore a "crime." as that term is understood in Article III, § 2, cl. 3,'of the Constitution. But
the o.e.nse 'of fast driving over a crowded and populous
street at such a rate or in such manner as to endanger the
safety of the inhabitants"'- is quite different from the of-

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. COLTS.
63

Argument for Respondent.

fense prohibited by the Traffic Act and known as reckless driving. The first can only be committed where the
vehicle attains a speed which is designated fast and over
a crowded or populous street. The offense of reckless
driving may be committed although the operator of the
vehicle is not proceeding fast, and it may be committed
upon a street that is not crowded or populous, and irrespective of whether the operation of the vehicle amounts
to a breach of the peace or not.
Mr. William B. O'Connell,with whom Messrs. Harry T.
Whelan'and Louis L. Whitestone were on the brief, for
respondent.,
If the offense is a criminal offense, there can be no question but that the defendant is entitled to a trial, by jury.
The language of the Constitution and of the Sixth Amendment is not susceptible of any-other interpretation.
The offense is not so petty that it should be tried by a
summary proceeding. The driving of an automobile in
the manner set out in the information would have
amounted to a common" nuisance at common law, and
would therefore have been an indictable offense, and one
entitling a defendant to a trial by jury. Blackstone's
Commentaries, Book IV, p. 166. See also United States
v. Hart, 1 Pet. C. C. 390.
Has Congress: ihe power to fix arbitrary limit, of punishment as the test for determining the right of a defendant to a trial by jury in a criminal case? If Congress
can draw a line at which jury trials begin and end, there
are innumerable federal statutes punishing a great many
misdemeanors,-. especially the National Prohibition Acf,
that Congress could very summarily enforce.
The nature of the offense is not the only criterion of
the right to a trial by jury; there is also the punishment
which may be prescribed. If this is a "petty offense,"
it would seem that the framers of the Constitution placed

70

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U.S.

a greater value on $20.00 than they did upon ninety days
of personal liberty.
That the offense may be tried by a summary proceeding
in some States is not denied; and that this was true in
most of the colonies before the-adoption of the Constitution, is not denied. But the limitations upon States
are not those upon the federal government. It is the
very purpose of the Constitution to prevent the federal
government from taking undue liberties with the citizens
of the States. Decisions of state courts have no bearing
whatever on this case. Barron v. Baltimore, 7 Pet. 243.
If Blackstone's definition is the true test, (Blackstone's
Commentaries, Book IV, p. 5), the offense charged here
is certainly a crime, and it comes, therefore, within the
scope of offenses referred to in the Constitution. That
there are many or few of these offenses, is of no importance. No one would seriously urge that a defendant be
denied a jury trial solely for the purpose of making prose:
cution convenient to the Government.
MR. -JusTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
An information filed in the Police Court of the District
of Columbia charged the respondent, Colts, with havmg
operated upon various streets, contrary to the statute set
forth below, "a certain motor vehicle at a greater rate
of speed than twenty-two miles an hour over said public
highway[s] recklessly, that is to say at a greater rate of
speed than was reasonable and proper, having regard to
the width of said public highway[s], the use thereof, and
the traffic thereon, in such manner and condition so as to
endanger property and individuals." Respondent was arraigned, pleaded not guilty, and demanded a trial by jury.
The demand was denied, and he was put upon trial before
the judge without a jury and found guilty. "Upon writ

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. COLTS.
63

Opinion of the Court.

of error the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia
reversed the judgment, holding that respondent, under the
federal Constitution, was entitled to a jury trial. With
that conclusion we agree.
The acts of Congress passed for the government of the
District provide that prosecutions in the police court
shall be on information; that where the -accused would
be entitled to a jury trial under the Constitution, trial
shall be by jury unless waived; and that in cases where
the accused would not by force of the Constitution be
entitled to a trial by jury, trial shall be by the court without a jury, unless, in cases where the fine or penalty may
be more than $300 or imprisonment more than ninety
days, the accused shall demand a trial by jury, in which
case the trial shall be by jury. D. C. Code (1930), Title
18, c. 4, § 165.
Section 9 of the District of Columbia Traffic Act, 1925,
as amended, D. C. Code (1930), Title 6, c. 9, § 246,
provides:
"(a) No vehicle shall be operated upon any public highway in the District at a speed greater than twenty-two
miles per hour except in such outlying districts and upon
such highways as the director may designate. ...
"(b) No individual shall operate a motor vehicle over
any public highway in the District (1) recklessly; or (2)
at a rate of speed greater than is reasonable. and proper,
having regard to the width of the public highway, the
use thereof, and the traffic thereon; or (3) so as to endanger any property or individual; or (4) so as unnecessarily or unreasonably to damage the public highway.
"(c) Any individual violating any provision of this section where the offense constitutes reckless driving shall,
upon conviction for the first offense, be fined not less
than $25 nor more than $100 or imprisoned not less than
10 days nor more than 30 days; and upon conviction for

72

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U.S.

the second or any subsequent offense such individual shall
be fined not less than $100 nor more than $1,000, and shall
be7 imprisoned not less than 30 days nor more than one
year, and the clerk of the court shall certify forthwith
such conviction to the director, who shall thereupon revoke the operator's permit of such individual.
"(d) Any individual violating any provision of this
section except where the offense constitutes reckless driv-'
'ing, shall, upon conviction for the first offense, be fined
not less than $5 nor more -than $25; upon conviction for
the second offense, such individual shall be fined not less
.than $25 nor more than $100; upon conviction for the
third offense or any subsequent offense such individual
shall be fined not less than $100 nbr more than $500,-and
shall be imprisoned not less than 30 days nor more.thhn
one year, and the clerk of the court shall certify forthwith such conviction to the director, who shall thereupon
revoke the operator's permit of suqh individual."
It will be seen that the respondent is not charged merely
with the comparatively slight offense of exceeding the
twenty-two mile limit of speed, subdivision (a), or merely
with driving recklessly, subdivision (b) (1); but with the
grave offense of having driven at the forbidden rate of
speed and recklessly, "so as to endanger property and
individuals."
By § 165 of the D. C. Code, outlined above, the Constitution is made the test-as, of course, it must beto determine whether the accused be entitled to a jury
trial. Article HI, § 2, cl. 3, of the Constitution provides
that "The trial of all crimes, except in cases of impeach±nent, shall be by jury." This provision is to be interpreted in the light of the common law, according to which
petty offenses might be proceeded against summarily before a magistrate sitting without a jury. See Callan v.
Wilson, 127 U. S. 540, 557. That there may be. many
offenses- called "petty offenses" which do not rise to the

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. COLTS.
63

Opinion of the Court.

degree of crimes within the meaning of Article III, and
in respect of which Congress may dispense'with a jury
trial, is settled. Schick v. United States, 195 U. S. 65.
And see Natal v. Louisiana,139 U. S.621,'624; Lawton v.
Steele, 152 U. S. 133, 141; State v. Rodgers, 91 N. J. L.
212, 214.
Whether a given offense is to be classed as a crime,
so as to require a jury trial, or as a petty offense, triable
summarily without a jury, depends primarily upon the
nature of the offense. The offense here charged is not
merely malum prohibitum,but in its very nature is malum
in se. Iiwas an indictable offense at common law, United
States v. John Hart, 1 Pet. C. C. 390, 392, when h6rses,
instead of gasoline, constituted the motive power. The
New Jersey Court of Errors and Appeals, in State v.
Rodgers, supra, has discussed the distinction between
traffic offenses of a petty character, subject to summary
proceedings without indictment and trial by jury, and
those of a serious character, amounting to public nuisance
indictable at common law' and its examination of the
subject makes clear that the offense now under review
is of the latter character.
An automobile is, potentially, a dangerous instrumentality, as the appalling number of fatalities brought about
every day by-its operation-bear distressing witness. To
drive such an instrumentality through the public streets
of a city so recklessly " as to endanger property and individials " is an act of such obvious depravity that to
characterize it as a petty offense would be to shock the
general moral sense. If the act of the respondent described in the information had culminated in the death
of a human being, respondent would have been subject
to indictment for some degree of felonious homicide. Nash
v. United States, 229 U. S.373, 377; 1 Whar. Cr. Law,
§§ 343 et seq., 353-356; 1 Bish. New Cr. Law, § 313 et
seq.; Story v. United States, 16 F. (2d) 342, 344; State v.

74

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Syllabus.

282 U.S.

Campbell, 82 Conn. 671, 677; Mercer v. Corbin, 117 Ind.
450; Belk et al. v. People, 125 Ill. 584, 589-590; Kennedy
v- Way, Bright. (Pa.) 186, 188. Such an act properly cannot be described otherwise than as a grave offense-a
crime within the meaning of the third Article of the Constitution-and as such within the constitutional guarantee
of trial by jury.
Judgment affirmed.

BEAUMONT, SOUR LAKE & WESTERN RAILWAY
COMPANY ET AL. v. UNITED STATES n-T AL.
UNITED STATES ET AL. v. BEAUMONT, SOUR
LAKE & WESTERN RAILWAY COMPANY ET AL.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNrIED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.

Nos. 44 and 45.

Argued October 20, 1930.-Decided November 24,
1930.

1. In fixing divisions of joint rates under § 15 (6) of the Interstate
Commerce Act, the facts specified in that section, and others necessarily or properly to be taken into account, are to be considered
having regard to the duty of the Commision under § 15 a (2) to
establish and adjust rates so that the carriers as a whole, in each
rate group or territory that the Commission may designate, will,
under management and expenditures such as are there specified,
earn as nearly as may be a fair return upon the aggregate value
of their operating property. P. 82
2. Section 15 (6) requires the Commission to consider the condition
of each carrier and to determine whether the division of each
joint rate is unreasonable, or otherwise repugnant to the specified
standards, and what division will for the future-be just, reasonable
and equitable; the Commission may not change an existing division
unless it finds that division unjust or unreasonable. Id..
3. But the Commission need not under all circumstances take specific evidence as to each rate of every carrier. When considering
divisions of numerous joint rates applicable to traffic passing
through gateways between different territories, the Commission

