OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Syllabus.

282 U.S.

Having regard to the rule of strict construction to be
applied to waivers by the United States of its sovereign
immunity from suit, the clause reasonably may be read
merely as a direction to the Commissioner to send the
notice to claimant without making the failure so to do
have the effect of enlarging the period for suing as otherwise definitely prescribed.
The permission to each of the plaintiffs to bring suit
expired two years after his claim was disallowed.
Judgments reversed.
CONNECTICUT v. MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 12, Original.

Argued January 5, 6, 1931.-Decided February
24, 1931.

1. This Court will not exert its extraordinary power to control the
conduct of one State at the suit of another, unless the threatened
invasion of rights is of serious magnitude and established by
clear and convincing evidence. P. 669.
2. The burden of proof in such cases is much greater than that
generally imposed on a private party seeking to enjoin another.'
P. 669.
3. Pursuant to Acts of her legislature, and subject to limitations
fixed by the Secretary of War, Massachusetts proposes to divert water from streams within her territory, the Ware and Swift
Rivers, which are tributaries of the Connecticut, a navigable river
flowing through Massachusetts and thence through the State of
Connecticut. The diverted water will be conducted out of the
Connecticut River watershed, to the Boston district, where it will
be used for drinking and other domestic purposes. That district
will be faced by a water shortage in the near future and the
tributaries referred to were selected, after elaborate research, as
the source of new supply, rather than sources in the eastern
part of Massachusetts which are polluted or liable to become so.
Connecticut sought to enjoin the diversion, for herself and as
parens patHae. Held, upon the facts as found by a Master and
accepted by the Court:

CONNECTICUT v. MASSACHUSETTS.
660

Counsel for Parties.

(1) The controversy is not necessarily to be determined, by the
common law of riparian rights, which prevails in both States.
'P. 669.
(2) Suits of this kind are to be determined on the basis of
equality of right, which means, not that there must be an equal
division of the waters of the stream among the States through
which it flows, but that the principles of right and' equity shall be
applied, having regard to the constitutional equality of the States,
and that, upon a consideration of the pertinent laws of the contending States, and all other relevant facts, this Court will determine what is an equitable apportionment of the use of such waters.
P. 670.
(3) The facts do not show that any real or substantial injury
or damage will presently result to Connecticut from the proposed
diversions. P. 672.
(4) The possibility that hydro-electric works in Connecticut,
which, as now existing, will not be affected by the proposed diversions, might be enlarged in the future so as to use the whole capacity of the river, is not ground for enjoining the diversions. P. 673.
(5) The proposed diversions by Massachusetts should not be
enjoined. P. 673.
(6) Inasmuch as the diversions intended by Massachusetts are
limited to the tributaries in question, Connecticut has no occasion
to ask for an injunction against future diversions from other
tributaries. P. 673.
(7) Connecticut's bill will be dismissed without prejudice to her
right to maintain a suit against Massachusetts whenever it shall
appear that substantial interests of Connecticut are being injured
through h material increase of the amount of the waters of the Ware
and Swift diverted by or under the authority of Massachusetts
over and above the quantities authorized by the Acts of the legislature as heretofore limited by the War Department. P. 674.
FiNAL HEARI NG of an original suit upon exceptions to

the report of the Special Master.
Messrs. Ernest L. Averill, Deputy Attorney General of
Connecticut, and Benedict M. Holden, with whom Mr.
Benjamin W. Alling, Attorney General, was on the brief,
for complainant.

662

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

Mr. Bentley W. Warren, Special Assistant Attorney
General of Massachusetts, with whom Messrs. Joseph E.
Warner, Attorney General, Gerald J. Callahan,R. Ammi
Cutter, and Manley 0. Hudson were on *the brief, for
defendant.*
MR. JusTIcE BUTL-ER delivered the opinion of the Court.
The State of Connecticut brought this suit against the
Commonwealth of Massachusetts to enjoin her from diverting waters from the watershed of the Connecticut
river to provide water for Boston and neighboring cities
and towns.
Legislation of Massachusetts authorizes diversion into
the Wachusett reservoir of the flood waters of the Ware
river, c. 375, Laws 1926, and of certain waters of the
Swift river, c. 321, Laws 1927. The watersheds of these
rivers are about midway between the Boston district and
the westerly boundary of the Commonwealth. They are
tributaries of the Chicopee; all are non-navigable streams
wholly within Massachusetts. The Chicopee empties
into the Connecticut just above Springfield. The latter'
rises in Canada and northern New Hampshire. It flows
between New Hampshire and Vermont through Massachusetts and Connecticut into Long Island Sound. It
is about 345 miles long and drains 11,300 square miles
of which 1,395 are in Connecticut.
The complaint alleges:
Connecticut and Massachusetts recognize the common
law doctrine that riparian owners have the right to the
undiminished flow of the stream free from contamination
or burden upon it. Connecticut appears as owner of
riparian lands and of the bed of the river and as parens
The interesting and'elaborate arguments in this case were much
concerned with the facts, and could not be faithfully represented
here ivithout exceeding space.1imits.
*

CONNECTICUT v. MASSACHUSETTS.
660

663 "

Opinion of the Court.

patriae. The proposed diversion will take water tributary
to the Connecticut entirely out of its watershed, will impair navigability of that stream, will take flood waters
and thereby cause damage to agricultural lands that axe
subject to yearly inundation. The Connecticut is now
heavily burdened with offensive matter put into the river'
in Massachusetts and requires all the water that naturally
comes down the river to prevent it from becoming a nuisance and menace to public health. The diversion will
destroy property of Connecticut and of its inhabitants
without due process of law and cause injury for which
there is no adequate remedy at law. The diversion presently proposed is only a portion of that covered by the
plan adopted by Massachusetts which includes the acquisition of the waters of other tributaries of the Connecticut.
By its answer and amendments thereto Massachusetts
denies that the proposed diversion will cause any injury
o1 damage, and avers that the amount of water to be
taken is negligible when compared with the flow of the
river where it enters Connecticut, that an emergency
exists in Massachusetts constituting a justification for a
reasonable use of such waters, that the serious injury to
the people of the Commonwealth if diversion be prohibited compared to the trivial damage possibly caused to
Connecticut and its people if diversion be permitted should
lead a court of equity to give substitutional relihf rather
than that specifically prayed, that Connecticut's contention that the diversion will interfere with navigation is
not open in the absence of proof that Massachusetts has
diverted or actually proposes to divertmore water than is
permitted by the War Department, that the proposed
diversion is in all respects a reasonable use of the waters
in question and that the project will stabilize the flow
of the river and result in benefit to Connecticut and the
lower riparian owners.

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

By its reply, Connecticut denies Massachusetts'
affirmative allegations and alleges that there is no
necessity for the diversion and that there is an adequate
supply of water in the eastern part of Massachusetts.
The Court appointed Charles W. Bunn of Minnesota as
special master and authorized him to take and report to
the Court the evidence together with his findings of fact,
conclusions of law and recommendations for a decree.
The master filed his report and the evidence introduced
by the respective parties. It shows that he heard arguments in their behalf, and sets forth his findings and conclusions with a recommendation that the bill be dismissed
and that (if it be held that lack of present purpose further to develop power at King's Island does not warrant
denial of injunction on that ground) the decree contain
a provision for the protection of the owner of the dam
and power at that place. Connecticut filed numerous exceptions. Massachusetts made no objection to the report. The Court has heard the arguments of counsel
and considered their briefs fo and against the exceptions and upon the final submission of the case.
The report shows that Connecticut sought to prove
that any subtraction from the flow of the Connecticut
river thr6ugh that State will cause serious damage to the
State and its people in that it will impair the navigability
of the stream, lessen productivity of river bottom lands
by diminution of inundation during times of high water
in each year, diminish the power capable of development
at King's Island, diminish the run of shad in the river
and decrease its capacity to discharge and destroy sewage.
The brief substance of the master's findings of fact
follows:
Boston and the surrounding metropolitan area are faced
with a serious water shortage in the near future and there
is need for a large quantity of additional water. That
district includes 35 cities and towns having a population

CONNECTICUT v. MASSACHUSETTS.
660

Opinion of the Court.

of 1,900,000. Other nearby cities and towns are likely
in the future to depend on that district for water supply.
The total population concerned is now 2,860,000 and it
is estimated that it will reach 4,572,000 within forty-years.
There is no serious dispute about the need of the region
to provide presently for additional water.
Massachusetts applied to the Secretary of War (Act of
March 3, 1899, ยง 10, 30 Stat. 1151) for authority to make
the proposed diversions. After hearing both sides and
examining the facts, the Secretary permitted diversion of
the flood waters of the Ware in excess of 85 million gallons per day between October 15 and June 15 and prohibited the taking of any water except during that period.
He permitted diversion of all waters of the Swift except
enough to maintain a flow therein of 20 million gallons
per day; but he required that, during the period from June
1 to November 30 there shall be released from the impounding dam 110 cubic feet per second (71 million gallons per day) whenever the flow of the Connecticut at
Sunderland, Massachusetts (a town 20 miles north of the
confluence of the Chicopee and Connecticut) is 4650 cubic
feet per second or less, and 70 cubic feet per second (45
million gallons per day) when the -flow is more than 4650
and less than 4900 cubic feet per second. The Secretary
found that the discharge at Sunderland of 4650 cubic feet
per second corresponds to an average gauge height at
Hartford of two feet and that a discharge of 4900 cubic
feet per second corresponds to 2.1 gauge height at
Hartford.
The annual flow of the Connecticut at the Massachusetts-Connecticut boundary is about 17,000 cubic feet per
second, approximately 11,000 million gallons a day. The
watershed above that boundary is 9,915 square miles.
The drainage of the Ware at the point of diversion on that
river is 98 square miles and that of the Swift at the point
of diversion is 186 square miles. The diversion permitted

666

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

by the Secretary will furnish about 191 million gallons
per day. The Massachusetts Acts do not authorize the
diversion of any waters other than the Ware and Swift
and as to these the record shows that (as far as counsel
can commit it) Massachusetts proposes to abide by the
War Department requirements and restrictions.
The total area subject to such diversions is 2.93 per
cent. of the watershed above Connecticut. The permitted
diversions represent an average yearly subtraction from
the flow of the Connecticut at the state line of about two
per cent; but 94 per cent. of. this occurs when the Hartford gauge reads above 3.5 feet'which means *11.5 feet
depth of water. The Government has heretofore sought
to maintain 10 feet of water below Hartford. A War Department project. contemplates a 12 foot channel. (On
that bottom level, 3.5 feet on the gauge would mean' 13.5
feet of water.)
Dredging is required every year to maintain a channel
of 10 feet over numerous bars below Hartford. Navigation is difficult when the depth falls below 10 feet. There
is no difficulty when there is 12 or even 11 feet. The required release of water from the Swift river reservoir during periods of low water will somewhat benefit navigation.
The maximum diversions are at high water and lessen
depth five to six inches. At medium stages the diversion
is less and at very low stages the flow is increased. The
diversion will not perceptibly or materially interfere with
navigation.
The height of floods will be lessened from one to six
inches. Because of the diversion, small pieces of hay
land will fail to receive flood waters. It is impossible to
determine from the evidence to what extent that will
occur. The lessening of spring floods will have its advantages and disadvantages; it will reduce some damages
and increase others. The damage to the hay land is not
shown to be of serious magnitude; and, far from being

CONNECTICUT v. MASSACHUSETTS.
660

Opinion of the Court.

established by clear and convincing evidence, it is not
shown by evidence making it possible of computation or
proving that it is large.
There is shown one possible development of power.
It is at King's Island in Connecticut where 4,000 horsepower is now produced. The owner has been authorized
by the Federal Power Commission to build a higher damto develop approximately 50,000 horsepower. It is not
shown that the company has determined so to do, or that
the necessary capital has been arranged for. The present use of the water for power purposes will not be disturbed by the diversion. If waterpower shall be developed to the extent of 50,000 horsepower, the diversion
will cause an injury of $80,000.
Connecticut failed to establish that the taking of flood
waters will be materially injurious to the shad run 6r
that the diversion will perceptibly increase the pollution
of the river.
The legislative determination to use the waters of the
Ware and Swift was nmade and the Acts of 1926 and 1927
were passed as the result of long-continued and careful
study. Connecticut submits two plans to show that the
northeastern part of Massachusetts has abundant supplies
of water for the Boston district.
The first involves combining water from 15 watersheds on the Assabet, Sudbury, Shawsheen and Ipswicli
rivers. The plan involves pumping and also treatment
of the water for its purification. From an engineering
standpoint it is inferior to that adopted for the WareSwift development. And, while a considerable amount
of water from these sources may be made available, most
of it is of a, quality much inferior to the waters of the
Ware and Swift. And the amount would be inadequate
and constitute only a part of the needed supply. The
operation of the plan would be of uncertain duration
and might have to be abandoned.

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

the second plan is based on the taking of water from
the Merrimack. That stream drains a large watershed
mainly in New Hampshire. It is polluted and the pollution is practically beyond the control of Massachusetts.
There is no certainty of its improvement or that it will
not become worse. Ujnquestionably, polluted water may
be made wholesome by proper treatment. A considerable amount of industrial waste from mills, cellulose
plants, tanneries, rendering works and gas works, of which
there are many in New Hampshire, is peculiarly difficult
to eliminate from water. The necessary treatment of
waters so polluted involves several processes--storage for
30 to 90 days in a large reservoir, aeration, filtration,
chlorination. These introduce a human element subject
to weaknesses and failures of human nature. Instances
of breakdowns are given. There is a small element of
danger involved in every -elaborate. system of water puri-P
fication. With a single exception, all the witnesses expressed preference for a supply of originally pure water
over a purified polluted one. Lawrence is the only city
in Massachusetts using Merrimack water for drinking.
It consumes an extraordinary amount of bottled water
the cost of which in 1916 was about 55 per cent. of the
amount paid for public water for all purposes. The plan
contemplates the taking of 200 million gallons per day
from the Merrimack at Tyng's Island, just below the New
Hampshire line. That is about one-quarter of its flow.
Factories below the proposed takeout would be liable to
suffer damage from the diversion. The stream is navigable
below Haverhill and it is not certain whether the taking
of that amount would be permitted by the Government.
The master says: "I find the taking from the Merrimack ought not to be imposed upon the Boston District. Because first the water is a folluted water and
Massachusetts has no adequate control of the pollution
or adequate remedy to cure it; that the water is of quality

CONNECTICUT v. MASSACHUSETTS.
660

Opinion of the Court.

much inferior to the Ware and Swift and the proposed
project inferior from an engineering standpoint to the
reservoir and tunnel which the Ware and Swift develop-,
ment involves."
The Massachusetts legislation confines itself to the
taking of certain waters of the Ware and Swift. The
Secretary of War has imposed additional limitations.
Massachusetts declares that she intends to divert no more
water than the Secretary of War permits and that she
will in every way follow the conditions he imposes.
The exceptions filed by Connecticut need not be set
forth or considered in detail. The governing rule is that
this Court will not exert its extraordinary power to control the conduct of one State at the suit of another, unless
the threatened invasion of rights is of serious magnitude
and established by clear and convincing evidence. New
York v. New Jersey, 256 U. S. 296, 309. Missouri v. Illinois, 200 U. S.496, 521. The burden on Connecticut to
sustain the allegations on which it seeks to prevent Massachusetts from making the proposed diversions is much
greater than that generally required to be borne by one
seeking an injunction in a suit between private parties.
North Dakota v. Minnesota, 263 U. S.365, 374. There
has been brought' forward no adequate reason for disturbing the master's findings of fact. They are amply
sustained by the evidence and are adopted by the Court.
Connecticut suggests that, under the common law in
force in both States, each riparian ownif has a vested
right in the use of the flowing waters and is entitled to
have theni to flow as they were wont, unimpaired as to
.quantity and uncontaminated as to quality. It maintains that the taking of waters from the Ware and Swift
infringes vested property rights in that State which cannot be taken without its consent against the will of the
owners., And it insists that this Court, following the law
enforced by each of the States within its own boundaries,

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
. Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

should grant injunction against any diversion from the
watersheds of these rivers.
But the laws in' respect of riparian rights that happen
to be effective for the time being in both States do not
necessarily constitute a dependable guide or just basis for
the decision of controversies such as that here presented.
The rules of the common law on that subject do not obtain in all the States of the Union, and there are variations in their application. The doctrine of appropriation
prevails in some States. And every State is free to change
its laws governing riparian ownership and to permit the
appropriation of flowing waters for such purposes as it
may deem wise. United States v. Rio Grande Irrigation
Co., 174 U. S. 690, 702.
For the decision of suits between States, federal, state
and international law are considered and applied by this
Court as the exigencies -of the particular case may require: The determination of the relative rights of contending Statep in respect of the use of streams flowing
through them does not depend upon the same considerations and is not governed by the same rules of law that
are applied in such States for the solution of similar questions of private right. Kansas v. Colorado, 185 U. S.
125, 146. A~id, while the municipal law relating to like
questions between individuals is to be taken into account,
it is not to be deemed to have controlling weight. As
was shown in Kansas v. Colorado, 206 U. S. 46, 100, such
disputes are to be settled on the basis of equality of right.
But this is not to say that there must be an equal division of the waters of an interstate stream among the
States through which it flows. It means that the principles of right and equity shall be applied having regard
to the "equal level or plane on which all the States stand,
in point of power and right, under our constitutional system" and that, upon a consideration of the pertinent laws

CONNECTICUT v. MASSACHUSETTS.
660

Opinion of the Court.

of the contending States and all other relevant facts, this
Court will determine what is an equitable apportionment
of the use of such waters. Wyoming v. Colorado, 259
U. S. 419, 465, 470.
The development of what Mr. Justice Brewer, speaking for the Court in Kansas v. Colorado, 206 U. S. 46, 98,
refers to as interstate common law is indicated and its application for the ascertainment of the relative rights of
States in respect of interstate waters is illustrated by Missouri v. Illinois, 200 U. S. 496; Kansas v. Colorado, supra;
Wyoming v. Colorado,supra,and Wisconsin v. Illinois,278
U. S. 367; 281 U. S. 179. Two of these cases are much
like the one at bar.
Kansasv. Coloradowas a suit to prevent the latter from
withholding waters of the Arkansas river from flowing as
they were wont through Kansas. The common law rule
as to riparian ownership was then generally recognized in
Kansas while in Colorado the doctrine of appropriation
prevailed. The Court held that the upper State was not
entitled to use the waters of the Arkansas flowing therein
as it chose regardless of resulting conditions or impairment of the right to the use of such waters in the lower
State. It was shown that, without diversion from the
watershed, the waters of the Arkansas in Colorado were
and for many years had been used to irrigate and make
productive what theretofore had been barren lands. It
was found that the resulting diminution of the flow of the
river caused perceptible injury to a portion of the valley
in Kansas but that it had been of little, if any, detriment
to the great body of the valley. The Court held (206
U. S. at p. 114) that the rule of equality of right forbade
interference with the existing withdrawals of water in
Colorado.
In Wyoming v. Colorado the former sued to prevent a
diversion of the waters of the Laramie river which rises

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U.S.

in Colorado and flows into Wyoming. Both States are
in the arid region and apply the doctrine of appropriation.
Wyoming objected on the ground that the diversion was
to another watershed. The Court held (p. 467) that:
"The principle of such diversions being recognized in
both States, its application to this interstate stream does
not in itself afford a ground for complaint, unless the practice in both be rejected in determining what, as between
them, is reasonable and admissible as to this stream,
which we think should not be done." The problem there
presented was expressed as follows (p. 467): "We are
thus brought to the question of the basis on which the
relative rights of these States in the waters of this interstate stream should be determined. Should the doctrine
of appropriation,. which each recognizes and enforces
within her borders, be applied? Or is there another basis
which is more consonant with right and equity?" After
an elaborate discussion of" the facts, the Court said
(p. 470): "We conclude that Colorado's objections to the
doctrine of appropriation as a basis of decision are not
well taken, and that it furnishes the only basis which is
consonant with the principles of right and equity applicable to such a controversy as this is."
It is very clear that, under earlier decisions here, the
strict rules for which Connecticut contends are not necessarily controlling in this case. There is nothing in the
master's findings of fact to justify an inference that*any
real or substantial injury or damage will presently result
to Connecticut from the diversions by Massachusetts authorized by the Acts of 1926 and 1927 as limited and defined by the Secretary of War. No discussion is required
as to the effect of the proposed diversion upon the navigability of the river, agriculture, fish life or pollution in
Connecticut.

CONNECTICUT v. MASSACHUSETTS.
660

673

Opinion of the Court.

The proposed taking of the waters of the Swift and
Ware will not affect the present dam, works or production of power at King's Island. While the owning company has secured authority to build the higher dam, it
has not resolved so to do. It is not found and there is
nothing to show that it intends to construct any dam
or works of a kind or capacity that, if now in use, would
be injuriously affected by such diversion. At most there
is a mere possibility that at some undisclosed time the
owner, were it not for the diversion, might construct additional works capable of using all of the flow of the river
including the waters proposed to be taken by Massachusetts. Injunction will not issue in the absence of actual
or presently threatened interference. The facts disclose
no basis for relief in respect of that property. New York
v. Illinois, 274 U. S. 488. New Jersey v. Sargent, 269
U. S. 328, 331, 338.
Drinking and other domestic purposes are the highest
uses of water. An ample supply of wholesome water is
essential. Massachusetts, after elaborate research, decided to take the waters of the Ware and Swift rather
than to rely on the sources in the eastern part of the
Commonwealth where all are or are liable to become polluted. We need not advert to other considerations, disclosed by the evidence and findings, to show that the proposed use of the waters of the Ware and Swift should not
be enjoined.
Connecticut maintains that the presently proposed
diversion will not be adequate for the future needs of
the Boston district and that the size and character of
the works as well as legislative reports and other circumstances disclose an intention on the part of Massachusetts, when the need shall arise, to draw from other
rivers--Millers, Deerfield, Quaboag and Westfield-tribu-"
tary to the Connecticut and iisists that the decree should
22110 -31---43

674

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

restrain Massachusetts forever from increasing its diversion to an amount in excess of what the Secretary of War
has already indicated would cause no damage to the navigation of the Connecticut.
The scope of the project is that shown by the Acts as
limited by the determination of the War Department.
It involves no diversion from streams other than the Ware
and Swift. Massachusetts declares that she intends to
and must obey these findings of the War Department.
Her statements before the master and here clearly negative any threat, intention or purpose to make any diversion of water in excess of that specified or otherwise than
as set forth in the determinations of the War Dogartment.
Injunction issues to prevent existing or presently threatened injuries. One will not be granted against something
merely feared as liable to occur at some indefinite time in
the future. New York v. Illinois, supra. New Jersey v.
Sargent, supra.
Connecticut's bill of complaint will be dismissed without prejudice to her right to maintain a suit against
Massachusetts whenever it shall Appear that substantial
interests of Connecticut are being injured through a material increase of the amount of the waters of the Ware
and Swift diverted by or under the authority of Massachusetts over and above the quantities authorized by the
Acts of 1926 and 1927 as heretofore limited by the War
Department. Each party will pay its own costs, onehalf of the expenses incurred by the special master and
one-half the amount to be fixed by the Court as his
compensation.
Counsel for Massachusetts will prepare
a form of decree in consonance with this decision and furnish a copy
to counsel for Connecticut within fifteen days; and, within
ten days after such submission, the draft decree together
with suggestions in behalf of Connecticut, if any, will
be submitted to the Court.

