PRUSSIAN v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

PRUSSIAN v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 448. Argued January 6, 7, 1931.-Decided February 24, 1931.
1. A forged endorsement of the payee's name on a genuine government draft is not a forgery of an " obligation of the United
States," within the meaning of § 148 of the Criminal Code, (R. S.
§ 5414). P.. 677.
So held in view of the rule of strict *construction applicable to
criminal statutes; the restrictive effect of Criiial Code, § 147,
which defines obligations of the United States as including checks
and drafts but is silent as to endorsements; history of the legislation, and th6 fact that Congress has specifically punished forgery
of endorsements on pension checks and money orders.
2. Section 29 of the Criminal Code, which punishes the forgery of
"any deed, power of attorney, order, certificate, receipt, contract,
or other writing," for the purpose -of obtaining or receiving from
the United States, or any of its officers or agents, any sum of
money, applies to the act of forging an endorsement of the payee's
name on a genuine government draft. P. 679.
3. As the writings specified in § 29 have no common characteristic
from which may be inferred a purpose to restrict the statute to
any particular class of writings, the addition of the words "other
writing" to the enumeration must be taken as intending to include
all writings of every class if forged for the purpose of obtaining
money from an officer of the United States. P. 679.
,4.An indictment under § 29 charging forgery of an endorsement on
a government draft for the purpose of obtaining and receiving a
sum of money from the officer of the United States on whom it
was drawn, need-iot allege in addition an intent to defraud the
United States. P. 680.
5. An indictment for a single act under one penal provision is not
rendered defective for uncertainty or repugnancy by alleging, erroneously, that the act violated another provision also. P. 680.
42 F. (2d) 854, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, post, p.

824, to review a judgment sustaining

an indictment under which the petitioner was convicted
in the District Court for forgery.

676

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

Mr. Harold L. Turk, with whom Messrs. Sam Rosenwein, P. F. Seigenfeld, and Walter B. Milkman were on
the brief, for petitioner.
Assistant Attorney General Sisson, with whom Solicitor
General Thacher and Messrs. ClaudeR. Branch and James
A. Wharton, Special Assistants to the Attorney General,
W. Marvin Smith, and Paul D. Miller were on the brief,
for. the United States.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

Prussian, the petitioner, was convicted in the District
Court for, Eastern New York of forging an endorsement
purporting to be that of a payee of a government draft.
At the trial, by motions to dismiss and in arrest of judgment, the sufficiency of the indictment was challenged on
the ground that the offense charged was the forging of
an obligation of the United States in violation of § 148
of the Criminal Code, U. S. C., Title 18, § 262, and that
the endorsement alleged to have been forged was not such
an obligation. The Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit affirmed the judgment, holding that the indictment sufficiently charged a violation of that- section.
42 F. (2d) 854.
Certiorari was asked on the ground, among others, that
the decision below conflicted with decisions of the Court
of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, Gesell v. United States,
1 F. (2d) 283; Lewis v. United States, 8 F. (2d) 849. See
also White v. Levine, 40 F. (2d) 502. .In accord with the
decision below are Hamil v. United States, 298 Fed. 369,
and Alvarado v. United States, 9 F. (2d) 385; cf. United
States v. Jolly, 37 Fed. 108; DeLemos v. U.nited States,
91 Fed. 497. Because of the conflict the petition was not
opposed by the government, although it suggested that
the indictment might also be upheld as charging a forgery
of a "writing, foi the purpose of obtaining , ., . from the

PRUSSIAN v. UNITED STATES.
675

Opinion of the Court.

United States . . . any sum of money" under § 29 of
the Criminal Code, U. S. C., Title 18, § 73. This Court
granted the petition, limiting review to the question
whether the indictment stated an offense under the
Criminal Code.
The indictment charged the forging by petitioner of
"a certain obligation of the United States " described as
the endorsement on a draft, drawn by a disbursing clerk
of the United States Treasury upon the Treasurer of the
United States and issued to the payee, "by falsely making and forging the name of the payee ... on the back
of said draft." It set out a copy of the draft and the
endorsement, and alleged that together they constituted
a forged obligation of the United States. The indictment also set up that the endorsement was "for the purpose of obtaining and feceiving from the Treasurer of
the United States a sum of money," and was tated to
be in violation of both §§ 29 and 148 of the Criminal Code.
Under § 148, "whoever, with intent to defraud, shall
falsely make, forge, counterfeit, or alter any obligation
or other security of the United States" is guilty of a
criminal offense. Section 147 provides: "The words
'obligation or other security of the United States' shall
be held to mean all... checks, or drafts for money drawn
by or upon authorized officers of the United States."
It is apparent that the draft drawn on the Treasurer
by an authorized officer is an " obligation . . . of the
United States" both in common parlance and by the
express definition of § 147. But to extend the meaning
of that phrase so as to embrace the endorsement on the
government draft is to enlarge the statutory definition,
and would be possible only by a strained construction of
the language of §§ 147 and 148, inadmissible in the interpretation of criminal statutes, which must be strictly
construed. See Fasulo v. United States, 272 U. S. 620;
United States v. Salen, 235 U. S.237.

.678

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

The writing described in the indictment, when issued
by the drawer, was a check or a draft. The added endorsement was in itself neither a check nor a draft. We
need not stop to consider the argument advanced -that the
obligation upon the draft does not become complete until
it is endorsed, see Hamil v. United States, supra, p. 371
for it overlooks the circumstance that the meaning of
"obligation" in § 148 is narrowed by the definition in
§ 147 to -specifically enumerated wT~tten instrumentg,
including checks or drafts for money, which are complete,
as such, within the statutory definition and in common
understanding, at least when issued to the payee by an
authorized officer of the government. The endorsement
was at most the purported obligation of the endorser, not
of the United States, and a purported transfer of the title
of the draft to the endorsee. - In neither -ispect was the
endorse'menf itself an .obligation ol thet United States as
ddfined by ,,lt47" or such a part of the draft as to con-stitute the ;o irig df the endorsement a forgery of the
draft.
If the point were doubtful, the doubt would be resolved
by a consideration of the purpose and higtory of the Act
of which § 148"is a part, and a comparison of it with related provisions of the Criminal Code. Its purpose has
been declared by thi Court to be the protection of thebonds-or currency of the United States, and not the punishment of any fraud,oirwrong on individuals. Dunbarv.
United States, 156,U. S. i85, 193; cf. United States v.
Turner, 7 Pet. 132, 136; United-Statesv. Stewart, 4 Wash.
C. C. 226. Section 148 is a reenactment of § 18 of the
Act of April 10, 1816, 3 Stat. 266) 2-75; which made-punishabl the forgery of bills, notes, orders or checks of the
Bank of the United States. The legislation took subs ,antially its present form in the Act of June 30, 1864 (c. 172,
13 Stat. 218, 221, 222), § 10 of which (later R. S. § 5414)
extended its penal provisions to the forgery of "any obli-

PRUSSIAN v. UNITED STATES.
675

Opinion of the Court.

gation or security of the United States," and § 13 of which
(later R. S. § 5413) defined obligations of the United
States substantially as in the present § 147. Before the
enactment of the 1864 prototype of § 148, the purpose
of the 1816 act had been declared, in United States v.
Turner, supra, to be "to guard the public from false and
counterfeit paper, purporting on its face to be issued by
the bank "; and it had been held to be inapplicable to a
forged endorsement upon a genuine post note of the Bank.
United States v. Stewart, supra. In the light of this history, the omission of any reference to endorsements in
§ 148 is not without significance; and it is worthy of note
that Congress later enacted laws specifically punishing
forgery of endorsements on pension checks and money
orders. Title 38, U. S. C., § 128; Title 18, U. S. C.,
§347.
But we think the indictment is to be sustained 's charging an offense under § 29 of the Criminal Code, which
punishes the forgery of "any deed, power of attorney,
order, certificate, receipt, contract, or other writing, for
the purpose of obtaining or receiving . . from the
United States, or any of their officers or agents, -any sum
of money." The indictment alleges specifically and with
certainty the forgery of thd endorsement on the draft, for
the purpose of obtaining a sum of money from the Treasurer of the United States, and charges a violation of § 29.
We think the endorsement was a "writing " within that
section. Its language is "comprehensive" and "all-embracing." Cf. United States v. Davis, 231 U. S. 183, 188.
The writings enumerated have no common characteristic
from which a purpose* may be inferred to restrict the
statute to any particular class of writings. The addition
of "other writing" to the enumeration was therefore not
for the purpose of including writings of a limited class,
but rather of extending the penal provisions of the statute
to all writings of every class if forged for the purpose of

680

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U.S.

obtaining money from an officer of the United States.
See Howgate v. United States, 7 App. D. C. 217, 232, 233;
cf. United States v. Lawrence, 13 Blatch. 211. It has
been generally assumed by the lower federal courts that
§ 29 covers the forging of an endorsement. United States
v. Winters, 5 F. (2d) 321; Gesell v. United States, supra,
pp. 287, 288; White v. Levine, supra; Bailey v. United,
States, 13 F. (2d) 325; Lewis v. United States, supra; cf.
United States v. Albert, 45 Fed. 552; DeLemos v. United
States, supra. But see, contra, Hamil v. United States,
supra, p.- 372; cf. United States v. Wilson, Fed. Cas. No.
16,732.
-Petitioner asserts that the indictment is defective in
that it does not charge that the forgery was with intent
to defraud the United States. See White v. Levine, supra,
p. 503. No such averment is required by the language of
§ 29 relating to forged endorsements. Other provisions
of § 20 punish the uttering of a forged writing, or presenting any such writing to an officer of the United States in
support of any claim, "with intent to defraud: the United
States." But the present indictment is not under either
of those provisions. The charge is forgery of the endorsement, which is punishable by the different provision, now
in question, if committed merely "-or the purpose of obtaining or receiving" from an officer or agent of the
United States any sum of money. This imports an intent to defraud the United States, which the indictment
sufficiently charges in the language of the statute.
Nor is the present indictment defective, as is urged,
because its material allegations are uncertain or repugnant. The accused was left in no uncertainty that he was
charged with only a single act, that of forging the endorsement for the specified purpose. 1irhe judgment here
would constitute an unmistakable bar to any future prosecution for the same offense. The validity of the indictment is therefore not affected by the fact that the pleader,

OXFORD PAPER CO. v. THE NIDARHOLM.
675

681

Statement of the Case.

through excess of caution, has mistakenly stated the act
to be a -violatioii oTboth § 148 and § 29. See Williams v.
United States, 168 U. S. 382.
Affirmed.
OXFORZD PAPER COMPANY v. THE NIDARHOLM.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 58. Argued January 20, 1931.-Decided February 24, 1931.
1. The Court need not consider objections to the decree below raised
by a respondent who did not ask certiorari. P. 684.
2. Under a time charter party in the usual "government form,"
which .placed at the charterer's disposal "the whole reach of the
vessel's holds, decks and usual places of loading," and provided that
"charterers ... load, stow, and trim the cargo at their expense
under the supervision of the captain," the charterer is responsible,
at least to the extent of the one-half of the damage decreed below,
for a loss of cargo caused, a half hour after the departure of the
ship and while it was still in smooth waters, by the collapse of defective stanchions, which had been erected by the charterer for its
own convenience to facilitate stowing the deck load; and this,
whether or not the topheaviness of the vessel, caused by faulty stowage, was a contributory cause. Olsen v. United States Shipping
Co., 213 Fed. 18, distinguished. P. 684.
3. The owner's duty to the .charterer to provide a seaworthy and
cargo-worthy ship at the beginning of the voyage does not extend
to the furnishing of safe cribbing; the warranty applies only to
the ship and to such equipment as is called for by the charter
party. P. 685.
4. The master, under his duty of supervision of cargo stowage, is not

bound to prevent the charterer from stowing the deck load in such
manner as to expose it to dangers ordinarily incident to the transportation of deck loads and not peculiarly within his prevision.
P. 685.
34 F. (2d) 442, 36 F. (2d) 227, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 281 U. S. 712, to review a judgment which
reversed a judgment of the District Court, 26 F. (2d) 92,

