BINGHAM v. BRADLEY.
.241. U. S.

Counsel for Appellant.

BINGHAM v. BRADLEY, UNITED STATES MARSHAL FOR TEE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF
ILLINOISr
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 592.

Submitted April 4, 1916.-Decided June 5, 1916.

This court will not presume that the demanding government will
suiffer a person surrendered pursuant to treaties of 1842 and 1889,
with Great Britain to be tried for any offense other than that
for which he is surrendered.
Where the commissioner had jurisdiction, the offense is within the
treaty, and if he acts upon competent and adequate evidence,- his
finding cannot be reversed on habeas corpus.
One ot the objects of § 5271, Rev. Stat., providing for admission
in evidence in extradition proceedings of properly authenticated
copies of depositions and proceedings, is to obviate the necessity
of confronting the accused with the witnesses against him; and neither
that section, nor Article X of the Treaty of 1842, should be so construed as to require the demanding government to send its citizens
to the country where the fugitive is found to institute legal proceedings: such a construction would defeat the object of the treaty.
A fair observance of the extradition treaties with Great Britain requires
in this case that the accused be surrendered, all the objections being
technical; and, as the- order was made by a commissioner having
jurisdiction, on evidence furnishing reasonable ground for belief
that the accused had committed a crime hi Canada which is an offense within the treaty both there and in Illinois where -be was
found, it should be affirmed..
THE facts, which involve the validity of an order of an
United States Commissioner holding a person for extradition under the Treaties of 1842 and 1889 with Great
Britain, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. William Dillon for appellant.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

Mr. Benjamin S. Minor, Mr. Almon W. Bulkley, Mr.
Clair E. More, Mi. Hugh B. Rowland and Mr. Colley W.
Bell for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE PiTNEY delivered the opinion of the 'court.
This is an appeal from a final order of the District Court
denying an application for a writ of habeas corpus in an
extradition case. The facts are to be gathered from the
petition for the writ and the exhibits therein referred to
and made a part of it, which include a sworn complaint
by the British Consul General at Chicago, applying on
behalf of the Government of the Dominion of Canada for
the extradition of appellant to Montreal, certain ex parte
affidavits taken in Montreal and a complaint made and
warrant issued against appellant in that city, an abstract
of the oral testimony taken before the United States
Commissioner at Chicago, and the warrant of commitment
issued by the Commissioner, under which appellant is
held in custody.
The complaint of the Consul General sets forth on information and belief that appellant, in the month of
February, 1915, was guilty of the crime of receiving and
retaining in his possession money to the amount of $1,500
in bills of the Bank of Montreal, the property of that bank,
knowing the same to have been stolen; that a warrant
has been issued by the police magistrate of the City of
Montreal for the apprehension of appellant for the crime
mentioned; that appellant is guilty.of the indictable offense
of receiving money knowing it to have been stolen, and
is a fugitive from justice from the District of Montreal,
Province of Quebec, and Dominion of Canada, and is
now within the territory of the United States; that the
offense of which he is charged is an offense within the
treaties between the United States and Great Britain;
and that deponent's information is based upon duly au-

BINGHAM v. BRADLEY.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

thenticated copies of a warrant issued by the police magistrate of Montreal and of the complaint or information
upon which that warrant was issued, and upon certain
depositions of witnesses submitted to be filed with the
present complaint. The reference is to the Montreal
affidavits, which set forth in substance that in the month
of September, 1911, a branch of the Bank of Montreal at
New Westminster, British Columbia, was broken into
and a large sum of money ($271,721) stolen from the bank,
including a considerable number of $5 bills of the Bank
of Montreal, seventy-eight of these being identified by
their numbers; that on February 10, 1915, in the City of
Montreal, appellant purchased a diamond ring from one
Eaves, a jeweler, and paid for it $250, of which $245 was
composed of new Bank of Montreal $5 bills, more than
thirty of these being identified by the numbers as among
those stolen; that on February 9, 1915, one Wakefield
purchased in Montreal some travelers' checks, paying for
them in part with fifty new $5 bills of the Bank of Montreal, of which twenty or more were identified as being
a part of the stolen money; and that on February 10, 1915,
Wakefield procured from a firm of bankers in Montreal an
exchange of Canadian bills for American currency, the
exchange including fifty new $5 bills of the Bank of Montreal, of which fifteen or more were identified as being a
part of those stolen.
Appellant having been apprehended, a hearing was had
before the United States Commissioner, at which the
above-mentioned documents were introduced and testimony was given tending to show that appellant and
Wakefield were together in Montreal on the ninth and
tenth of Febr'uary, 1915, cooperating in' the exchange of
the stolen bills for travelers' checks and United States
currency; and that on the evening of February 10 they
left Montreal together in a manner indicating an intent
to evade detection, and went to Chicago, where almost

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

immediately they began systematic efforts to procure the
exchange of Bank of Montreal bills for United States
currency.
The Commissioner deeming the evidence sufficient to
sustain the charge, the warrant of commitment was issued,
the proceedings and evidence being certified in due course
to the Secretary of State, pursuant to § 5270, Rev. Stat.
Under the applicable provisions of our treaties with
Great Britain (Treaty of Aug. 9, 1842, Art. X; 8 Stat.
572, 576; Treaty of July 12, 1889, Art. I; 26 Stat. 1508,
1509), there is included among the extraditable offenses
that of "receiving any money, valuable security, or other
property, knowing the same to have been embezzled,
stolen, or fraudulently obtained."
In behalf of appellant it is objected that while the criminal code of Canada defines as indictable offenses (a) the
receiving or retaining in possession anything obtained by
any offense punishable on indictment, knowing it to have
been so obtained, and (b) the receiving or retaining in
possession any money or valuable security or other thing,
the stealing whereof is declared to be an indictable offense,
knowing the same to have been stolen, the offense charged
in the complaint filed and in the warrant issued in Montreal and in' the Consul General's complaint is that of
receiving and retaining in his possession money, etc.,
knowing it had been stolen. The argument is that the
Canadian statute treats receiving and retaining as distinct
offenses, connecting them with the disjunctive "or,"
while the complaints treat the two acts as together constituting one offense. Properly interpreted, however,
they charge the commission of both offenses; and if only
one, that of receiving, etc., is extraditable by the treaty,
this does not render appellant's detention unlawful, since
it is not to be presumed that the demanding government
will suffer him to be tried or punished for any- offense
other than that for which he is surrendered, in violation

BINGHAM v. BRADLEY.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of Article III of the Treaty of 1889. Kelly v. Griffin,
ante, pp. 6, 15.
It is insisted that the Consul General's complaint does
not allege that the offense was committed in Canada,
that the evidence relied upon raises no presumption that
appellant committed anywhere the offense of receiving
stolen property knowing it to be stolen (the offense specified in the treaty), and that it raises no presumption that
appellant committed the offense in Montreal or anywhere
in the Dominion of Canada.
The criticism upon the complaint is unsubstantial. It
is fairly to be inferred from what is stated that the crime
was committed in Canada, and it is distinctly averred
that appellant is a fugitive from justice from the District
of Montreal, in that Dominion, and that the offense with
which he is charged is an offense within the treaties between the United States and Great Britain. Besides this,
it is stated that deponent's information is based upon
authenticated copies of a warrant issued by the police
magistrate of Montreal and of the complaint upon which
that warrant was issued, and upon certain depositions
submitted and to be filed with the present complaint; the
depositions being those taken in Montreal. It is clear
that the intent was to charge that the offense was committed in Canada.
As to the effect of the evidence: The Commissioner
doubtless held that the fact of possession, taken in connection with the other facts of the case, raised a presumption either that appellant was a party to the burglary or
that he afterwards obtained possession of the bills with
guilty knowledge. Appellant disputes the inference, and,
assuming it to be well founded, insists that there is nothing
in the law of probabilities to sustain an inference that
"possession by a man during a visit of a few days to
Montreal of goods that were stolen more than three years
previously in British Columbia makes it more probable

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

that he received the goods in Canada than that he received
them in the United States." There is nothing in the
evidence to require the inference that appellant was
paying a brief visit to Montreal. It appears that he has a
brother who is in business in Chicago, and that he himself
was in that city in the summer of 1914, and, on three
occasions, with intervals of several weeks, exchanged
Canadian money there for United States currency. This is
consistent with the inference that he was then exchanging
part of the stolen money, but does not require the inference that he had a fixed place of abode in Chicago. The
stolen bills that were in appellant's possession in Montreal
in February, 1915, are not shown to have been 'removed
from the Dominion after the time they were stolen from
the bank in September, 1911. As it was a reasonable
inference-they being "new bills"-that they had never
before been used in exchange, and because so many of
them were found together in the hands of appellant and his
confederate three and a half years after the
burglary, it:
was further inferable that they had been retained during
the intervening period with the purpose of awaiting such
opportunity .for passing them as might come from relaxed
vigilance on the part of the authorities; and since the
Dominion of Canada is the natural and convenient market
for bills of the Bank of Montreal, it was inferable that the
bills had not been taken out of the Dominion since the
time they were stolen; and, if not, it followed that appellant must have been wichin the Dominion when he received them. That they were received with knowledge
that they had been stolen, might be inferred from the fact
of the burglary coupled with the suspicious circumstances
(only a part of which we have referred to) attending the
efforts to exchange them for other forms of property.
The Commissioner deemed the evidence sufficient to
sustain the charge (Rev. Stat., § 5270), and since he had
jurisdiction of the subject-matter and of the accused, and

BINGHAM v. BRADLEY.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the offense is within the treaty, his finding cannot be reversed on habeas corpus if he acted upon competent and
adequate evidence. McNamara v. Henkel, 226 U. S. 520,
523.
It is insisted that the Montreal affidavits, essential to
show that the alleged offense was committed within the
Dominion, were incompetent because taken ex parte, in the
absence of appellant and without opportunity for crossexamination. The Treaty of 1842 provides in Article X
that extradition shall only be had "upon such evidence of
criminality as, according to the laws of the place where the
fugitive or person so charged shall be found, would justify
his apprehension and commitment for trial, if the crime or
offence had there been committed." Section 5271, Rev.
Stat., as amended by act of August 3, 1882, §§ 5 and 6
(c. 378, 22 Stat. 215, 216), provides that any depositions,
warrants, or other papers or copies thereof, shall be adnissible in evidence at the hearing if properly authenticated so as to entitle them to be received for similar
purposes by the tribunals of the foreign country, and that
the certificate of the principal diplomatic or consular
officer of the United States resident in the foreign country
shall be proof of such authentication. The Montreal
affidavits, complaints, warrant*, etc.,' are properly authenticated in accordance with this provision. It is one of the
objects of § 5271 to obviate the necessity of confronting
the accused with the witnesses against him; and a construction of this section, or of the treaty, that would require the demanding government to send its citizens to
another country to institute legal proceedings would
defeat the whole object of the treaty. Rice v. Ames, 180
U. S. 371, 375; Yordi v. Nolte, 215 U. S. 227, 231.
All of the objections savor of technicality. And since
the jurisdiction of the Commissioner is clear, and the
evidence 'abundantly sufficient to furnish reasonable
ground for the belief that appellant has committed within

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Statement of the Case.

241 U. S.

the Dominion of Canada a crime that is an offense under
the laws of the Dominion, as well as under those of Illinois
(2 Jones & Add. Ill. Stat. Ann., § 3892), and is covered by
the terms of the treaty, and that he is a fugitive from

justice, a fair observance of the obligations of the treaty
requires that he be surrendered.
221 U. S. 508, 512.

Glucksman v. Henkel,
Final order affirmed.

NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY v.
DUNLEVY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 290.

Argued May 14, 15, 1916.-Decided June 5, 1916.

A party to an action does not after final judgment still remain in court
and subject without further personal service to whatsoever orders
may be entered under the title of that cause.
Interpleader proceedings brought by a garnishee are not essential concomitants of the original action in which the judgment was rencer-d
on which the garnishment is based, but are collateral and requiie
personal service on the judgment debtor.
In Pennsylvania, a judgment debtor is not a party to a garnishment
proceeding to condemn a claim due him from a third person, nor is
he bound by a judgment discharging the garnishee.
Any personal judgment which a state court may render against one
not voluntarily submitting to its jurisdiction, and who is not a citizen of the State, nor served with process within its border, no matter
what the mode of service, is void because the court has no jurisdiction over his person.
214 Fed. Rep. 1, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the effect of a garnishee proceeding in one State and pleaded in an action in another
State, are stated in the opinion.

