DUEL v. HOLLINS.
241 U. S.

Syllabus.

borders, no matter what the mode of service, 'is void,
because the court had no jurisdiction over his person.
Pennoyer v. Neff, supra; Freeman on Judgments, 4th ed.,
§ 120a; Black on Judgments, 2d ed., §§ 904 and .905.
We axe of opinion that the proceedings in the Pennsylvania court constituted no bar to the action in California and the judgment below is accordingly
Affirmed.

DUEL v. HOLLINS.
WIENER, LEVY & CO. v. HOLLINS.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

SECOND CIRCUIT.
Nos. 352, 353.

Argued May 4, 5, 1916.-Decided June 5, 1916.

A bankrupt firm of brokers having, prior to bankruptcy carried on
marginal transactions for several different customers in shares of
stock of the same corporation amounting in the aggregate to more
than the number of shares of that stock in their possession at the
time of the bankruptcy, and none of such shares being identified as
the particular shares carried for any of the respective customers, but
all of whom demanded their full quota of shares and offered to pay
the amount due thereon, held that:
Brokers and their customers stand in the relation of pledgee and
pledgor.
In dealings between brokers and customers stock certificates issued
by the same corporation lack individuality; they are, like receipts for
coin, to be treated as indistinguishable tokens of actual values.
As between themselves, after paying the amount due the broker on a
marginal transaction, the customer has a right to demand from the
broker delivery of stock purchased for his account and such a delivery may be made during insolvency without creating a preference.
The fact that the bankrupt broker in this case did not have sufficient shares of stock of a corporation on hand at the time of his

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U.S.

bankruptcy to satisfy the demands of all of his customers entitled
to shares of that particular stock held not to prevent such customers
from obtaining any of such shares, and require that all of such shares
go into the general estate, but held that all of such customers were entitled to such shares and on demanding the same and paying the
amounts respectively due thereon, should participate pro rata in a
division of the shares actually on hand.
219 Fed. Rep. '544, reversed and 212 Fed. Rep. 317, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the relative rights of the trustee in bankruptcy of a firm of brokers and various customers entitled to shares of stocks carried on margin by
such brokers, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Frederick W. Longfellow, with whom Mr. Lewis L.
Delafield was on the brief, for appellant in No. 352.
Mr. Stuart McNamara, with whom Mr. Carl A. de
Gersdorff was on the brief, for appellants in No. 353.
Mr. William C. Armstrong, with whom Mr. Charles K.
Beekman was on the brief, for appellees.

MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of
the court.
Hollins & Company, brokers and members of the New
York Stock Exchange, went into bankruptcy November 13, 1913.
On October 13, 1912, they purchased for appellant
Duel a hundred shares of Amalgamated Copper Company stock-" Copper "-and received certificates therefor which they subsequently disposed of by deliveries on
account of sales for customers.
October 25, 1912, they purchased for one Bamberger
thirty shares of "Copper," received a certificate therefor
and pledged this for their own benefit with the National
Bank of Commerce.

DUEL v. HOLLINS.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

February 25, 1913, they purchased for appellants
Wiener, Levy & Company fifty shares of "Copper" and
received a certificate. About June 13, 1913, this passed-:
out of their control "for and in behalf of another customer."
Prior to November 1, 1913, they were directed to purchase for one Landau a hundred shares of "Copper,"
and their books charge them as carrying this number for
his account.
At the close of business November 7, 1913, they were
responsible to customers for two hundred and eighty
shares of "Copper "-Bamberger thirty, Duel one hundred, Wiener, Levy & Company fifty, Landau one hundred; and they held in actual possession-"in the box"only two certificates for fifty shares each. November 10,
1913, they used these in making delivery on a short sale.
On the same day that sale was "covered" and on November 11 they received and placed in their box a certificate
(No. 29373) for one hundred shares.
When bankruptcy occurred (November 13) their entire liability to "long" customers on account of "Copper" arose from purchases of two hundred and eighty
shares as above narrated; and they actually held only
certificate No. 29373, received two days before. To
secure their own loans they had on pledge with Kings
County Trust Company and National Bank of Commerce,
respectively, certificates for fifty and thirty shares; and
they also had an outstanding short sale of one hundred
shares.
In the deposition of Allaire, bankrupts' cashier, it is
said:
"The said certificate No. 29373 was never marked or
otherwise identified by Hollins & Co. as the property of
any particular person or customer, or placed in any envelope bearing any indication that the said stock was
held for the special account of any particular customer or

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

person, and no nemorandum appears upon the books or
records of Hollins & Co. to the effect that said stock was
purchased or held for the special or particular account of
any one customer or person.
"It was the practice of Holins & Co. to use certificates
of stock on hand in making deliveries thereof, indiscriminately and without regard to particular certificates
or certificate numbers, excepting only cases where customers deposited certificates of stock standing in their
own names as margin for their own accounts, where such
certificates were usually retained in kind, but at nol time
from the 1st day of November, 1913, until and including the 13th day of November, 1913, were there any certificates for Amalgamated Copper stock standing in the
name of any customers.
"Certificate No. 29373 representing 100 shares of
Amalgamated Copper stock was not purchased or received for the account of any member of the firm of
Hollins & Co., or for the personal account of said firm
as a whole, but was received from the Stock Exchange
Clearing House in the usual course of business as representing the balance of Amalgamated Copper stock due
said firm on balance on said date."
The record indicates that all transactions in question
were made in pursuance of the usual contracts for speculative purchases and sales of stock upon margins.
By timely petitions appellants claimed that in adjusting their accounts for final settlement with bankrupts'
estate they were entitled to have allotted to them respectively 100/280 and 50/280 of' the one hundred shares
of "Copper" represented by certificate No. 29373. The
District Court, Southern District of New York (212 Fed.
Rep. 317), oustained their position and ordered accordingly, but the Circuit Court of Appeals reached a different
conclusion and reversed the order. 219 Fed. Rep. 544.

DUEL v. HOLLINS.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The facts of the present case differ in some respects
from those presented in Gorman v. Littlefield, 229 U. S.
19; but we think a logical application of principles there
approved requires disagreement with the Circuit' Court
of Appeals and approval of order in the District Court.
In view of our former opinions it must be taken as
settled: That bankrupts and their customer stood in the
relation of pledgee and pledgor. That in their dealings
stock certificates issued by same corporation lacked individuality and, like fac-simile -storage receipts for gold
coin, could properly be treaed as indistinguishable tokens
of identical values. That as between themselves, after
paying amount due brokers, the customer had a right
to demand delivery of stocks purchased for his account;
and such delivery might' have been made during insolvency without creating a preference. Richardsonv. Shaw,
209 U. S. 365; Thomas v. Taggart, 209 U. S. 385; Sexton
v. Kessler, 225 U. S. 90; Gorman v. Littlefield, 229 U. S.
19.
Summing up the doctrine of Richardson v. Shaw concerning legal relationship between customer and broker
in buying and holding shares, we said in Gorman v. Littlefield (pp. 23-24): " It was held that the certificates of
stock were not the property itself, but merely the evidence
of it, and that a certificate for the same number of shares
represented precisely the same kind and value of property
as another certificate for a like number of shares in the
same corporation; that the return of a different certificate or the substitution of one certificate for another
made no material change in the property right of the
customer; that such shares were unlike distinct articles
of personal property, differing in kind or value, as a horse,
wagon or harness, and that stock has no earmark which
distinguishes one share from another, but is like grain
of a uniform quality in an elevator, one bushel being of
the same kind and value as another. It was therefore

528

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 1.S.

concluded that the turning over of the certificates for
the shares of stock belonging to the customer and held by
the broker for him did not amount to a preferential transfer of the bankrupt's property."
And we there further declared (pp. 24-25): "It is therefore unnecessary for a customer, where shares of stock
of the same kind are in the hands of a broker, being held
to satisfy his claims, to be able to put his finger upon the
identical certificates of stock purchased for him. It is
enough that the broker has shares of the same kind which
are legally subject to the demand of the customer. And
in this respect the trustee in bankruptcy -is
in the same
position as the broker. Richardson v. Shaw, supra. It
is said, however, that the shares in this particular case
are not so identified as to come within the rule. But it
does appear that at the time of bankruptcy certificates
were found in the bankrupt's possession in an amount
greater than those which should have been on hand for
this customer, and the significant fact is shown that no
other customer claimed any right in those shares of stock.
It was, as we have seen, the dtty of the broker, if he sold
the shares specifically purchased' for the appellant, to
buy others of like kind and to keep on hand subject to
the order of the customer certificates sufficient for the
legitimate demands upon him. If he did this, the identification of particular certificates is unimportant. Furthermore, it was the right and duty of the broker, if he sold
the certificates, to use his own funds to keep the amount
good, and this he could do without depleting his estate
to the detriment of other creditors who had no property
rights in the certificates held for particular customers.
No creditor could justly demand that the estate be augmented by a wrongful conversion of the property of
another in this manner or the application to the general
estate of property which never rightfully belonged to the
bankrupt."

DUEL v. HOLLINS.
241 U. S.

Pii-E and HUGHES, JJ., dissenting.

When the bankruptcy which occasioned Gorman v.
Littlefeld took place the broker's box contained certificates, not specifically allotted, for three hundred and
fifty shares of the designated stock and the appellant's
claim for two hundred and fifty was the only. one presented by a customer. We held that under the circumstances no more definite identification was essential, and
approved his contention. If in the instant cause a certificate for two hundred and eighty shares of "Copper"
instead of one hundred had been on hand the four customers for whom that number were -purchased might
successfully claim them under rule approved in Gorman's
case. And merely because the one actually in the box
represented insufficient shares fully to.satisfy all'is not
enough to prevent application of that rule so far as the
circumstances will permit. The District Court properly
awarded to appellants their pro rata parts of the one
hundred shares.
Decree of Circuit Court of Appeals reversed, and decree
-

of District Court affirmed.

MR. JUSTICE PITNEY, with
TICE HUGHES, dissenting:

whom concurred MR. Jus-

In Gorman v. Littlefield, 229 U. S. 19, the reasoning
embodied in the following extract from the opinion (p. 24)
was, as I take it, essential to vindicate the conclusion
reached by the court: "It is said, however, that the shares
in this particular case are not so identified as to come
within the rule. But it does appear that at the time of
bankruptcy certificates were found in the bankrupt's
possession in an amount greater than those which should
have been on hand for this customer, and the significant
fact is shown that no other customer claimed any right

in those shares of stock. It was, as we have seen, the
duty of the broker, if he sold the shares specifically pur-

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
PITNEY and HUGHES, JJ., dissenting.

241 U. S.

chased for the appellant, to buy others of like kind and
keep on hand subject to the order of the customer certificates sufficient for the legitimate demands upon him.
If he did this, the identification of particular certificates
is unimportant."
In the present case, it does not appear that at the time
of the inception of the bankruptcy proceedings certificates
were found in the brokers' possession equal in amount
to those which should have been on hand; several customers are laying claim to the shares that were on hand;
and it affirmatively appears that the brokers, having
sold the shares specifically purchased for these customers,
had not bought others of like kind, nor kept on hand certificates sufficient for the claims of the customers upon
them. Not only was no stock kept on hand' to answer
the claims aggregating 280 shares, but it affirmatively
appears that the 100 shares that were on hand were not
acquired with intent to make restitution. The deposition
of Allaire, the only man having knowledge upon the subject, was that -Certificate No. 29,373, representing 100
shares of Amalgamated Copper Stock, ."was received
from the Stock Exchange Clearing House in the usual
course of business as representing the balance of Amalgamated Copper Stock due said firm on balance on said
date"-the date being one unconnected with any transaction for account of the appellants or either of
them.
It is one thing to infer an intent to make restitution
to a customer when the acts have been done that are
necessary to effect restitution; it is an entirely different
matter to infer an intent to make restitution when no
restitution has in fact been made. The presumption of
an intent to restore fractional interests in this case
must rest on the merest fiction; and such a fiction ought
not to be indulged in cases of this character, where it
will inevitably result in creating a series of arbitrary

VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

preferences, contrary to the equity of the Bankruptcy
Act.
I think the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals (219
Fed. Rep. 544) ought to be affirmed, and am authorized
to say that MR. JusTicE HUGHES concurs in this dissent.

COMMONWEALTH OF VIRGINIA v. STATE OF
WEST VIRGINIA.
PETITION FOR. A WRIT OF EXECUTION.
No. 2, Original.

Submitted June 5, 1916.-Decided June 12, 1916.

A State should be given an opportunity to accept and abide by the
decision of this court; andin a case in which the legislature has not
met in regular session since the rendition of the decision, motion for
execution will be not granted, but denied without prejudice to' renew
after the next session of the legislature.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. John Garland Pollard, Attorney General of the
State of Virginia, for complainant.
Mr. A. A. Lilly, Attorney General of the State of West
Virginia, with whom Mr. John H. Holt was on the brief,
for defendant.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of
the court.
In the original cause of Commonwealth of. Virginia v.
State of West Virginia, on June 14, 1915, a decree was
rendered in favor of Virginia and against West Virginia for
the sum of $12,393,929.50 with interest thereon at the rate

