WHITE v. UNITED STATES.
241 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

WHITE, RECEIVER OF COWARDIN, BRADLEY,
CLAY & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 309.

Argued April 19, 1916.-Decided May 1, 1916.

As the plans annexed to the contract for construction of a filtration
plant and reservoir showed a roadway around the reservoir, as also
did plans subsequently furnished the contractor, and the engineer
in charge of the work, gave the grade lines of such roadway, and
the voucher for the first payments included work thereon, held, that
although there was ambiguity in the contract, the roadway was
included in the contract and the contractor is entitled to be compensated for work done thereon in accordance with the terms of

the contract.
48 Ct. Cl. 169, reversed.
APPELLANT is the receiver of the firm of Cowardin,
Bradley, Clay & Company, and the successor of one John
D. McClennan. The latter filed in the Court of Claims
a petition, subsequently amended by appellant, praying
a judgment against the United States for the sum of
$43,510, the amount due that company on a contract for
labor and materials furnished for the construction of a
filtration plant in the District of Columbia.
The court found, among other things, that there is a
driveway running completely about the reservoir, which
is an irregularly shaped body of water, comprising the
western and southern part of the filtration plant. The
starting point of "the roadway" (so-called by the court),
its course and termination are stated.
The set of plans attached to the written contract and
by its terms made a part of the agreement included certain
plans showing the roadway bordering the reservoir west
of the filter beds. One of the plans (sheet 2) was a draw-

OCTOBER TERM, 191.
Statement of the Case.

241 U. S.

ing showing the work in general sections; another plan
(sheet 4) was a general plan and showed finished surfaces;
and general plan No. 1 showed the entire projected plant.
All of these plans indicated a roadway, and sheet No. 16
also indicated a roadway.
. Afterwards two supplemental plans, relating to the
roadway and giving details as to grades, were furnished
the contractor.
Appellant's predecessor, McClennan, began work on
the roadway in January or February, 1904. It d6es. not
appear that the contractor was ordered in terms by the
Government engineers to build the roadway but it is
shown that when he commenced work on it the engineers
gave him the line of the toe of the slope and from time
to time furnished him with the lines showing the direction
of the road and the stakes showing the grade, and that the
work was done under their inspection as to the lines,
slopes, and the character of the material allowed to be
deposited thereon.
The contractor began to build the roadway by filling
with earth excavated from other parts of the work, and
he continued to fill in and build the roadway in accordance
with the plans and under the inspection of the engineers
until February 14, 1905, and had been paid at various
times about $12,000 on account of the work done on
estimates made by the Government. The first payment
was on voucher, month of March, 1904, covering all work
done on the road up to the end of February, 1904, for
"embanlnent (A, item No. 2), 13,000 cubic yards, at
30 cents, less 10 per cent. retained, amounting to $3,510."
Except for said voucher no separate estimates were made
of the amount of fill placed in the roadway, the work done
thereon being included in the regular monthly estimates
with the work done on other portions of the filtration
plant.
Shortly' after McClennan was appointed receiver in

WHITE v. UNITED STATES.
241 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

August, 1903, he made arrangements with the Soldiers'
Home authorities, at a considerable cost, to dispose of
waste material on the Soldiers' Home grounds under
certain conditions, the terms of which, so far as the amount
of material to be placed thereon is concerned, were never
carried out. The roadway was just as convenient a place
as any to dispose of waste material and the cost of putting
it there was no more than it would have been to have
placed it on the Soldiers' Home grounds.
McClennan, he then being receiver, was informed by
the engineer officer in charge on behalf of 'the United
States that he would not allow any further payments for
work done on the roadway. For a short time afterward
and pending negotiations regarding the matter with the
engineer officer appellant continued dumping material that
he wanted to dispose of on the roadway. He finally discontinued work thereon, at which time about 6,000 cubic
yards of fill was necessary to complete the roadway. It
was subsequently finished by the UnitediStates without
further cost.
In the final settlement there was deducted from the
amount paid a sum equal to such of the fill in the roadway
as had been paid for at the rate of 30 cents per cubic yard,
amounting to about $12,000.
"On or about February 15, 1904, the Government
engineer in charge had cross sections taken over the line
of the roadway in question, which cross sections were used
in computing the amount of work done by the contractor
thereon outside of the lines allowed and paid for in the
final estimate, and the amount of fill so made and not paid
for was found to be 67,578 cubic yards, which at 30 cents
per cubic yard amounts to $20,273.40."
From these facts the court concluded that appellant
was not entitled to recover and dismissed the petition.
Judgment was entered accordingly and this appeal was
then prosecuted.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

Mr. Chauncey Hackett for appellant.
Mr. Assistant Attorney GeneralHuston Thompson for the
United States.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA, after stating the facts as above,
delivered the opinion of the court.
It appears from the findings that the plans showed a
roadway bordering the reservoir. This finding seems to be
contested by the Government, the contention being that
where the roadway was to be placed was "merely marked"
and no detail whatsoever as to its exact location or dimensions was shown by the plans. The finding, however,
is more specific. One of the plans showed the work in
general sections and indicated the roadway; another
showed finished surfaces, with the roadway thereon;
still another showed the entire filtration plant, the road
again being indicated, and it was marked again on another
plan. Such persistent repetition must have had other
purpose than mere designation, and, besides, there were
supplemental plans furnished the contractor relating to
the roadway, giving detail as to grades. And, further,
the engineer in charge gave the "toe of the slope" to the
contractor and "from time to time furnished him with
the lines showing the direction of the road and the stakes
showing the grade." "The lines, slopes, and the character of the material allowed to be deposited thereon"
were under his inspection.
The force of these findings is added to by the fact that
the engineer first in charge and under whom the work
was commenced on the roadway drew the plans and his
action was their interpretation. It was not inadvertent.
The hrst payment to the contractor was on a voucher
which contained the work on the road as an item of liability, and, though subsequent, vouchers omitted such

WHITE v. UNITED STATES.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

specification, work on the roadway was included in the
regular monthly estimates. And this continued until a
new engineer came upon the scene. With him came
controversy. He not only introduced a new construction
of the contract but so far reversed the construction and
action of his predecessor as to deduct in the final settlements the amounts allowed by the latter.
Undoubtedly the contract has ambiguity and to present
and resolve the ambiguity in detail would require a precise and literal examination of the contract. Such examination would greatly and, we think, uselessly prolong
this opinion. We should be brought nevertheless to a
few broad determining considerations.
The contention of the Government is based upon what
is said to be the purpose of the contract, which, it is
further said, "so far as appellant was concerned [italics
counsel's], was the construction of the filtration plant
proper." The appellant, in opposition, declares that the
contract enumerated three kinds of fills "and all other
fills and embankments shown by the plans or directed
to be made by the engineer officer in charge." Though
some doubts beset appellant's contention and some considerations bear against it, there are others which determine for it. The most important of the considerations
against it is the charge by the Government that the
contractor was paid for every yard of excavation and
that the dirt excavated had to be deposited somewhere
and the roadway "was just as convenient a place as any
to dispose" of it. And this is given strength by the fact
that the contractor had arranged, at a considerable cost,
with the Soldiers' Home authorities to dispose of waste
material on the grounds of the Soldiers' Home.
But there is the countervailing consideration to which
we have adverted, that is, of the action of the engineer
first in charge, and it was he who drew the contract. He
was there for direction. He considered that the roadway

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

241 U. S.

was part of the scheme. He directed and superintended
its construction. And it was a systematic structure, not
a mere dumping place or deposit for iaterial. It was
constructed upon lines, slopes and grades and of selected
materials. Further, in continued manifestation of his
judgment that the contract included it and in approval
of its conformity to the contract, he directed payment
for it. There is nothing which reflects upon the sincerity
of his judgment and it is necessarily the important factor
in determining the responsibility of the Government.
Whether the roadway was necessary or accessory to
the filtration plant is not important to consider. We may
observe, however, that it was subsequently finished by
the United States, and manifestly deemed desirable.
Judgment reversed and cause remanded with directions
to enter judgment for appellant on the findings and in
accordance with this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the consideration and decision of this case.

DE LA RAMA v. DE LA RAMA.
ERROR TO AND APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE
PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.
No. 216.

Submitted April 18, 1916.-Decided May 1,"1916.

The rule that local practice, sanctioned by the local courts, should not
be disturbed, appliod in this case to the union of two causes of action,
one of divorce and the other separation of the conjugal property,
and both within the jurisdiction of the Court of First Instance of
the Philippine Islands.
An objection to the competency of the presiding judge which was not

