LAMAR v. UNITED STATES.
241 U. S.

Syllabus.

seems to be claimed by the plaintiff in error, but on the
contrary is in accord with what actually was there decided.
Other questions are discussed in the briefs, but as they
are not Federal but essentially local they cannot be reexamined by us.
Judgnent affirmed.

LAMAR v. UNITED STATES.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 895. Argued April 4, 1916.-Decided May 1, 1916.
The Circuit Court of Appeals has no power to compel a party, who has
prosecuted both a direct appeal from this court under § 238, Judicial
Code, and a writ of error from the Circuit Court of Appeals, to elect
which method he will pursue, and, in default of his withdrawing
the direct appeal, to dismiss the writ of error.
While the general rule, when this court reverses a decision of the
Circuit Court of Appeals wholly on the question of its jurisdiction,
is to remand the case to that court without passing upon the merits,
this court has the power to, and, in exceptional cases such as the
present, will, determine the merits.
While a penal provision may not be enlarged by interpretation, it must
not be so narrowed as to fail to give full effect to its plain terms, as
made manifest by its text and context.
A member of the House of Representatives is an officer of the United
States within the meaning of § 32 of the Penal Code.
Section 32 of the Penal Code prohibits and punishes the false assuming,
with the intention to defraud, to be an officer or employee of the
United States; and also the doing in the falsely assumed character
of any overt act to carry out the fraudulent intent whether it would
have been legally authorized had the assumed capacity existed or not.
The indictment in this case clearly charges the fraudulent intent under§ 32 of the Penal Code and is sufficient under § 1025, Revised
Statutes.
There was proof in this case of intent to defraud, and to establish

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Argument for Lamar.

241 U. S.

criminality under § 32, Penal Code; and there was no error in refusing an instruction to acquit and in submitting the case to the jury.
There was no lack of jurisdiction of this case in the District Court
because the trial was presided over by a judge of a different district

assigned to the court for trial conformably to the act of October 3,
1913, c. 18, 38 Stat. 203.

THE

facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court,

and of the Circuit Court of Appeals, the construction of
§ 32 of the Penal Code, and the power of assignment of a
judge of one District to preside over the District Court of
another district under the Act of October 3, 1913, are
stated in the opinion.
Mr. A. Leo Everett and Mr. Francis L. Kohlman, with
whom Mr. H. B. Walmsley was on the brief, for David
Lamar:
A congressman is not an officer of the United States.
Bowen's Documents of the Constitution; 1 Farrand
Records of the Fed. Conv., p. 376; 3 id., pp. 597-599--62C;
Blount's Case, Wharton's St. Trials, 200; Story's Comm.
on Const.,, 1st ed., § 791; Tucker on Const., § 199; Cong.
Rec., 1914, p. 8831; H. R., 63d Cong., 2d Sess., Rep.
No. 677; United States v. Germaine, 99 U. S. 508; United
States v. Mouat, 124 U. S. 303; United States v. Smith,
124 U. S. 525; Burton v. United States, 202 U. S. 344;
Kelly v. Common Council, 77 N. Y. 503; N. Y. Public
Officer's Law, § 2, Art. 1; Am. & Eng. Enc., 2d ed., tit.,
"Public Officers," p. 322; United States v. Wiltberger, 5
Wheat. 76; Hackfield v. United States, 197 U. S. 442;
Martin v. United States, 168 Fed. Rep. 198; United States
v. Barnow, 239 U. S. 74; United States v. Ballard, 118
Fed. Rep. 757; Mackey v. Miller, 126 Fed. Rep. 161.
It was not charged or proven that the defendant pretended to act "under the authority of the United States."
United States v. Curtain,43 Fed. Rep. 433; United States
v. Bradford, 53 Fed. Rep. 542; United States v. Taylor,
108 Fed. Rep. 621; United States v. Ballard, 118 Fed.

LAMAR v. UNITED STATES.
241 U. S.

Argument for Lamar.

Rep. 757; United States v. Brown, 119 Fed. Rep. 482;
United States v. Farnham, 127 Fed. Rep. 478; Littel v.
United States, 169 Fed. Rep. 620; United States v. Barnow,
239 U. S. 74.
The indictment is defective in failing to describe the
circumstances of the offense. United States v. Carll, 105
U. S. 611; Evans v. United States, 153 U. S. 584; United
States v. Hess, 124 U. S. 483; Keck v. United States, 172
U. S. 434; Moore v. United States, 160 U. S. 268; Bartell
v. United States, 227 U. S. 427; Martin v. United States,
168 Fed. Rep. 198.
There was no proof of an intent to defraud.
The District Court in which the defendant was tried
under an indictment charging him with the commission
of a crime, had no jurisdiction in view of the provisions of
the Sixth Amendment.
The designation of a judge from a district in one circuit
to hold a district court in another circuit trespasses upon
the executive power of appointment in that it permits a
United States District Judge to hold court in a district
to the court of which he was not nominated by the President and confirmed by the Senate.
This court will at all times and may upon its own motion inquire into the jurisdiction of the court below.
Ball v. United States, 140 U. S. 118; Chicago &c. Ry. Co.
v. Willard, 220 U. S. 419; Ex parte Lange, 18 Wall. 163;
Ex parte Nielsen, 131 U. S. 176; Ex parte Seebold, 100 U. S.
371; ForeRiver Ship Co. v. Hagg, 219 U. S. 275; Jud. Code,
§ 18; Judiciary Law, § 2; Kentucky v. Powers, 201 U. S.
1; Kansas v. Colorado, 200 U. S. 46; Marbury v. Madison,
1 Cranch, 138; McDowell v. United States, 159 U. S. 596;
Mackey v. Miller, 126 Fed. Rep. 161; M. C. L. Ry. v.
Swann, 111 U. S. 379; Nashville v. Cooper, 6 Waters, 247;
Norton v. Shelby County, 118 U. S. 448; Sheldon v. Sill,
8 How. 441, No. 8448; 2 Story on Const., p. 1557; Teel v.
Chesapeake Ry., 204 Fed. Rep. 918.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Argument for the United States.

241 U.S.

The Solicitor General, with whom Mr. Robert Szold was
on the brief, for the United States:
Section 32, Crim. Code, prohibits the false assumption
*or pxetense to be a member of Congress.
The legislative history of the act reinforces this
view.

A member of the House of Representatives is an officer
of the Government of the United States and acting under
its authority.
Members of Congress hold "office," and a member of
Congress is an "officer." 2 Bouvier's Law Dict., p. 540,
ed. of 1897; Swafford v. Templeton, 185 U. S.487, 492;
The Floyd Acceptances, 7 Wall. 666, 676; United States v.
M-aurice, 2 Brock. 96, 102.
The Revised Statutes of the United States recognize
members -of Congress as such officers. Revised Stat.,
§§ 1756, 1759, 1786, 2010.
Decisions of state courts and state statutes recognize
members of the state legislatures as "state officers." The
analogy is complete. Morril v. Haines, 2 N. H. 246, 251;
Shelby v. Alcorn, 36 Mississippi, 273, 291; State v. Dillon,
90 Missouri, 229, 233; Rev. Stat., N. Y., 1829, v. 1, p. 95.
A member of Congress is a Federal and not a state
officer. Eversole v. Brown, 21 Ky. Law Rep. 925, 927;
State v. Gifford, 22 Idaho, 613, 632-633; State v. Russell,
10 Ohio Dec. 255, 264.
Other decisions of this court do not contravene'the
proposition here contended for.
It is not necessary that defendant's pretense be to act
lawfully under the authority of the United States. Littell
v. United States, 169 Fed. Rep. 620; United States v. Ballard, 118 Fed. Rep. 757; United States v. Barnow, 239 U. S.
74.
The indictment sufficiently particularizes the circumstances of the offense.
The defendant's objection is not one of substance, but

LAMAR v. UNITED STATES.
241 U.S.

tot

Opinion of the Court.

of form.' Evans v. United States, 153 U. S. 584; United
States v. Barnow, supra.
All substantial rights of defendant were observed.
Bartell v. United States, 227 U. S. 427; Durland v. United
States, 161 U. S. 306.
Section 1025, Rev. Stat., controls. Armour Packing
Co. v. United States, 209 U. S. 56; Ledbetter v. United
States, 170 U. S. 606.
The proof of the intent to defraud was-ample.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE. WHITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
Charged in the trial court (Southern District of New
York) by an indictment containing two counts, with
violating § 32 of the Penal Code, the petitioner was convicted and on December 3, 1914, sentenced to two years'
imprisonment in the penitentiary. The trial was presided
over by the District Judge of the Western District of.
Michigan assigned to duty in the district conformlably to
the provisions of § 18 of the Judicial Code as amended
by the Act of Congress of October 3, 1913 (c. 18, 38 Stat.
203). To the conviction and sentence in January following
error was directly prosecuted from this court, the assignments of error assuming that there was involved not only
a question of the jurisdiction of the court as a Federal
court, but also constitutional questions. For the purpose
of the writ one of the district judges of the Southern District of New York gave a certificate as to the existence
and character of the question of jurisdiction evidently
with the intention of conforming to § 238 of the Judicial
Code.
After the record on this writ had been filed in this court.
a writ of error to the conviction was prosecuted in May,
1915, from the court below. In September following that
court, acting on a motion to dismiss such writ of error on

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

the ground that its prosecution was inconsistent with the
writ sued out from this court, entered an order providing
for dismissal unless the plaintiff in error within ten days
elected which of the two writs of error he would rely upon
and subsequently before the expiration of the time stated
the court declined to comply with the request of the
plaintiff in error that the questions at issue be certified to
this court. On October 29, 1915, the election required of
the plaintiff in error not having been made, the writ of
error was dismissed.
On January 31, 1916, the writ of error prosecuted from
this court came under consideration as the result of a
motion to dismiss, and finding that there was no question
concerning the jurisdiction of the trial court within the
intendment of the statute and no constitutional question,
the writ was dismissed for want of jurisdiction. 240 U. S.
60. Thereupon the plaintiff in errqr in the court below
asked that the cause be reinstated and heard and upon
the refusal of the request an application was made to this
court for leave to file a petition for mandamus to compel
such action and if not, for the allowance of a certiorari,
and although the former application was denied, the case
is here because of the allowance of the latter remedy.
Primarily the question is, Was it the duty of the court
below to exercise jurisdiction? As under the statute it is
indisputable that there was jurisdiction and the duty to
exert it unless the conditions existed which authorized a
direct writ of error from this court, it follows that the
dismissal by this court of the direct writ for want of jurisdiction affirmatively determined that there was jurisdiction in the court below and error was committed in not
exerting it unless by some neglect to avail of proper procedure or because of some line of inconsistent conduct the
right to invoke the jurisdiction of the court below was lost.
As we have seen, the assumed existence of the latter cause
was the basis of the refusal to exercise jurisdiction, that is,

LAMAI v. UNITED STATES.
?A1 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the inconsistency which it was assumed resulted from
prosecuting the direct writ of error from this court and
subsequently suing out the writ of error from the court
below from which it was deduced that there was a duty
to elect between the two as a prerequisite to the right to
ask at the hands of the court below the exertion of the
jurisdictional authority cast upon it by law. But if the
exercise of the assumed duty of election which was imposed had resulted in the abandonment of the writ from
the court below, there would have been nothing left upon
which the jurisdiction of that court could have been exerted, and it is hence apparent that in substance the order
was but a direction that the plaintiff in error abandon the
direct writ prosecuted from this court as a prerequisite to
his right to invoke the action of the court upon the writ
pending before it. But aside from the demonstration of
error which arises from the mere statement of this inevitable result of the order made by the court below, it is
equally clear that such order rested upon a misconception
arising from treating as one, things which are distinct,
that is, the existence of authority to compel the abandonment of one of two valid and available remedies because
of their inconsistency, leaving therefore the one not abandoned in force, and the want of power to compel an election
of one of two remedies where the exertion of judicial power
alone could determine which of the two was available and
where therefore the exercise of the election ordered in the
nature of things involved the power to destroy all relief
and thus frustrate the right of review conferred by the
statute by one or the other of the remedies. As in view
of this distinction it clearly results that the determination
of the plaintiff in error to abandon under the order of the
court one or the other of the two writs of error could not
have validated the writ not abandoned if it was not authorized by law, it must follow that the election to which
the order of the court submitted the plaintiff in error was

110

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.,

241 U. S.

not real and therefore afforded no basis for the refusal of
the court to determine the validity of the writ of error
pending before it and to decide the case if it deemed it
had jurisdiction. Indeed, if it be conceded that the situation arising from the pendency of the two writs created
doubt, that concession would not change the result since
we are of opinion that the power to have certified to this
-court the jurisdictional or other questions as to which the
doubt existed was the remedy created by the statute to
meet such a situation and to obviate the possibility of
denying to the plaintiff in error the right to a review which
again it must be borne in mind the statute gave under one
or the other of the two writs.
Correcting the error committed by the court below
by its order of dismissal, the case on its merits is within
our competency to decide as the result of the operation of
the certiorari. As, however, it is clear that the questions
on the merits, as demonstrated by the previous judgment
of dismissal of the direct writ of error, are of a character
which under the statute if they had been disposed of by
the court below in the discharge of its duty would have
been finally determined, and as it is equally apparent
that none of the questions except the one of jurisdiction,
that is, the duty of the court below to have decided the
cause, are within the exceptional considerations by which
certiorari is allowed, it follows that in order to give effect
to the statute our duty would be as a general rule having
corrected the error resulting from the dismissal and having
afforded a remedy for the failure of the court below to
exercise jurisdiction, to go no farther and remand the
case so that the questions at issue might be finally disposed of. Lutcher & Moore v. Knight, 217 U. S. 257. But
while not in any degree departing from the general rule, we
think it is inapplicable here because of the serious doubt
which may have been engendered by the certificate as to
the jurisdictional question given by the district judge,

LAMAR v. UNITED STATES.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the-Court.

although it is now established that there was no foundation whatever for allowing it, and because of the resulting
complexity of the question as to whether the jurisdiction
of this court had not attached to the subject-matter and
excluded the advisability if not the power on the part of the
court below to certify to this court the question of which
writ of error was paramount, when of necessity a certificate
involving the solution of that question had already been
made by the district judge. We therefore dispose of the
merits, restating the case so far as may be essential.
The section of .the Penal Code charged to have been
violated punishes anyone who "with intent to defraud
either the United States or any person, shall falsely assume
or pretend to be an officer or employee acting under the
authority of the United States, or any Department, or
any officer of the Government thereof, and shall take upon
himself to act as such, or shall in such pretended character demand or obtain from any person or from the
United States, or any Department, or any officer of the
Government thereof any money, paper, document, or
other valuable thing," etc. The indictment charged that
at a stated time the petitioner "unlawfully, knowingly
and feloniously did falsely assume and pretend to be an
officer of the Government of the United States, to-wit, a
member of the House of Representatives of the Congress
of the United States of America, that is to say, A. Mitchell
Palmer, a member of Congress representing the Twentysixth District of the State of Pennsylvania, with the intent,
then and there, to defraud Lewis Cass Ledyard," and
other persons who were named and others to the grand
jury unknown, "and the said defendant, then and there,
with the intent and purpose aforesaid, did take upon himself to act as such member of Congress; against the peace,"
etc., etc.
We consider the contentions relied upon for reversal
separately.

112

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

1. It is insisted that no offense under the statute was
stated in the indictment because a member of the House
of Representatives of the United States is not an officer
acting under the authority of the United States within the
meaning of the provision of the Penal Code upon which the
indictment was based. This contention is supported by
reference to what is assumed to be the significance in one
or more provisions of the Constitution of the words "civil
officers," and reliance is specially placed upon the ruling

made at an early day in the Blount Case (Wharton's
State Trials, p. 200) that a Senator of the United States
was not a civil officer subject to impeachment within the
meaning of § 4 of Article II of the Constitution. But, as
previously held in sustaining the motion to dismiss the
direct writ of error, the issue here is not a constitutional
one, but who is an officer acting under the authority of the
United States within the provisions of the section of the
Penal Code under consideration? And that question
must be solved by the text of the provision, not shutting
out as an instrument of interpretation proper light which
may be afforded by the Constitution and not forgetting
that a penal statute is not to be enlarged by interpretation,
but also not unmindful of the fact that a statute because
it is penal is not to be narrowed by construction so as to
fail to give full effect to its plain terms as made manifest
by its text and its context. United States v. Hartwell, 6
Wall. 385, 395; United States v. Corbett, 215 U. S. 233, 242,
243.
Guided by these rules, when the relations of members
of the House of Representatives to the Government of
the United States are borne in mind and the nature and
character of their duties and responsibilities are considered, we are clearly of the opinion that such membersare embraced by the comprehensive terms of the statute.
If however considered from the face of the statute alone
the question was susceptible of obscurity or doubt-which

LAMAR v. UNITED STATES.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

we think is not the case-all ground for doubt would 61e
removed by the following considerations: (a) Because
prior to and at the time of the original enactment in question the common understanding that a member of the
House of Representatives was a legislative officer of the
United States was clearly expressed in the ordinary, as
well as legal, dictionaries. See Webster, verbo office;
Century Dictionary, verbo officer; Bouvier's Law Dietionary (edition of 1897) Vol. 2, page 540, verbo legislative
officers; Black's Law Dictionary (2nd edition) page 710,
verbo legislative officer. (b) Because at or before the same
period in the Senate of the United States after considering
the ruling in the Blount Case, it was concluded that a member of Congress was a civil officer of the United States
within the purview of the law requiring the taking of an
oath of office. (Cong. Globe, 38th Congress, 1st session,
pt. 1, pp. 320-331.) (c) Because also in various general
statutes of the United States at the time of the enactment in question a member of Congress was assumed to
be a civil officer of the United States. Revised Statutes,
§§ 1786, 2010, and subdivision 14 of § 563. (d) Because
that conclusion is the necessary result of prior decisions of
this court and harmonizes with the settled conception of
the position of members of state legislative bodies as expressed in many state decisions. The Floyd Acceptances,
7 Wall. 666, 676; Ex parte Yarbrough, 110 U. S. 651, 654;
Wiley v. Sinkler, 179 U. S. 58, 64; Swafford v. Templeton,
185 U. S. 487, 492; People v. Common Council, 77 N. Y.
503, 507-508; Morril v. Haines, 2 N. H. 246; Shelby v.
Alcorn, 36 Mississippi, 273, 291; Parks v. Soldiers' Home,
22 Colorado, 86, 96.
2. But it is urged, granting that a member of Congress
is embraced by the word officer, yet no offense was stated
since it was not charged that in pretending to be an; officer
the accused did an act which he would have been authorized to do under the authority of the United States had he

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

possessed the official capacity which he assumed to have.
In other words, the proposition is that the first clause of
the section prohibits the falsely assuming or pretending
to be an officer with intent to defraud and as such officer
taking upon himself to act under the authority of the
United States, that is, to do an authorized act. The
contention which the proposition covers was insisted upon
not only in the demurrer which was overruled, but by
requests to charge and exceptions to the charge given.
While it is undoubtedly true that the construction asserted finds some apparent support in one or more decided cases in district courts of the United States (United
States v. Taylor, 108 Fed. Rep. 621; United States v.
Ballard, 118 Fed. Rep. 757;' United States v. Farnham,
127 Fed. Rep. 478), we are of opinion that it misconceives
the statute and fails to give it proper effect because when
rightly construed the operation of the clause is to prohibit
and punish the falsely assuming or pretending, with intent
to defraud the United States or any person, to be an
officer or employee of the United States as defined in
the clause and the doing in the falsely assumed character
any overt act, whether it would have been legally authorized had the assumed capacity existed or not, to carry
out the fraudulent intent. Briefly stated, we conclude
this to be the meaning of the clause for the following
reasons: (a) Because the words "acting under the authority of the United States" are words designating the
character of the officer or employee whose personation
the clause prohibits since if the words are thus applied,
the clause becomes coherent and free from difficulty,
while if on the other hand they are applied only as limiting and defining the character of the overt act from which
criminality is to arise, confusion and uncertainty as to
the officer or employee whose fraudulent simulation is
prohibited necessarily results. (b) Because the consequence of a contrary construction would be obviously

LAMAR v. UNITED STATES.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to limit the application of the clause as shown by its
general language and as manifested by the remedial purpose which led to its enactment. (Cong. Rec. vol. 14,
pt. 4, p. 3263, 47th Cong. 2d Sess.) (c) Because to adopt
a contrary view would be absolutely inharmonious with
the context, since it would bring into play a conflict
impossible of reconciliation. To make this clear it is to
be observed that the last clause of the section makes
criminal the demanding or obtaining in the assumed
capacity which the first clause prohibits, "from any person or from the United States, . . . any money, paper,
document, or other valuable thing, . . ." We say which
the first clause prohibits because there is no reexpression
of the prohibition against assuming or pretending contained in the first clause except as that prohibition is
carried over and made applicable to the second by the
words "or shall in such pretended character demand,"
etc. As it is obvious that the acts made absolutely criminal by the second clause are acts which may or may not
have been accomplished as the result of exerting in the
pretended capacity an authority which there would have
been a lawful right to exert if the character had been real
and not assumed, it results not only that the conflict
which we have indicated would arise from adopting the
construction claimed, but the error of such contention
as applied to the first clause is conclusively demonstrated.
Indeed the consideration thus given the contention
in question was unnecessary because its error is persuasively if not conclusively established by the ruling
in United States v. Barnow, 239 U. S. 74. In that case
the accused was charged under both clauses of the section
with having on the one hand falsely assumed to be an employee of the United States acting under the authority
of the United States, "to wit, an agent employed by the
government to sell a certain set of books entitled 'Messages and Papers of Presidents"' and with having taken

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

upon himself to act as such by visiting a named person
for the purpose of carrying out the intended fraud, and
on the other hand under the second clause of the section
with having by means of the same false personation obtained a sum of money. The case came here to review
the action of the court below in sustaining a demurrer to
the indictment as stating no offense because there was no
authorized employee of the character which had been
falsely assumed and no legal authority therefore to have
done the overt acts with which either count was concerned. The judgment was reversed under the express
ruling that the existence of the office or the authority
was. not essential as the assuming or pretending to be
and act as an officer or employee of the United States
was within the purview of the statute and necessarily embraced within its prohibitions.
3. It is urged that the indictment is defective because
of its failure to describe the circumstances of the offense.
It suffices to say that after considering them we think
that the many authorities cited to support the contention
are wholly inapplicable to the conditions disclosed by
the record and we are further of opinion that those conditions make it clear that the contention is devoid of
merit. We say this because it will be observed from the
text of the indictment which we have previously reproduced that it clearly charges the illegal acts complained
of and the requisite fraudulent intent, states the date
and place of the commission of the acts charged and gives
the name and official character of the officer whom the
accused was charged with having falsely personated. It
is moreover to be observed that there is not the slightest
suggestion that there was a want of knowledge of the
crime which was charged or of any surprise concerning
the same, nor is there any intimation that any request
was made for a bill of particulars concerning the details
of the offense charged. Under this situation we think that

LAMAR v. UNITED STATES.

241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the case is clearly covered by § 1025, Revised Statutes.
Connors v. United States, 158 U. S. 408, 411; Armour
Packing Co. v. United States, 209 U. S. 56, 84; New York
Central R. R. v. United States, 212 U. S. 481, 497; Holmgren v. United States, 217 U. S. 509, 523.
4. It is insisted that there was no proof whatever tending to show an intent to defraud or to establish criminality
under the section relied upon and therefore there should
have been an instruction to acquit. In so far as the
proposition concerns the absence of proof of the doing
of an overt act which was authorized by law and therefore
relates to the wrongful construction of the statute which
we have previously pointed out, it is disposed of by what
was said on that subject. As to the want of any evidence
justifying the submission of the case to the jury on the
question of the criminal intent relied upon or of the acts
charged, we content ourselves with the statement that
after a close scrutiny of the record we are of the opinion
that the contention is wholly without merit and that
the case was clearly one where the proof was of such a
character as to justify its being submitted to the jury for
its consideration.
5. Finally we come to consider a contention not raised
in the trial court, not suggested in the court below while
the case was there pending and before the order of dismissal which we have reviewed was entered, and not even
indirectly referred to in this court when the case was
pending on the direct writ of error which writ was, as we
have seen, dismissed because it presented for consideration
no question of jurisdiction and none arising under the
Constitution. Indeed the contention now relied on was
for the first time urged in a supplemental brief filed on the
present hearing. The proposition is that the trial court
had no jurisdiction, in fact that no such court eisted,
because the trial was presided over by the District Judge
:of the Western District of Michigan assigned to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

Southern District of New York conformably to the statute
(Oct. 3, 1913, c. 18, 38 Stat. 203) and that the effect of
such assignment under the statute was virtually to
destroy the Southern District of New York by creating a
new district whose boundaries were undefined, thus
violating the rights secured to the accused by the Sixth
Amendment since he was subjected to trial in a district
not established when the offense with which he was
charged was committed. In fact the further contention is
made that to assign a judge of one district and one circuit
to perform duty in another district of another circuit was
in substance to usurp the power of appointment and
confirmation vested by the Constitution in the President
and Senate. As to the first of these contentions, we think
it suffices to say that it rests upon a construction of the
words of the statute authorizing the assignment of a
judge of one district and circuit to duty in another district
and circuit which is wholly unfounded and which rests
upon a premise conflicting with the practice of the Government under the Constitution substantially from the
beginning. As to the second contention, we think merely
to state it suffices to demonstrate its absolute unsoundness.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the consideration and decision of this case.

