KANSAS CITY SOUTHERN RY. CO. v. JONES.
241 U. S.

181

Opinion of the Court.

KANSAS CITY SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY
v. JONES, ADMINISTRATRIX.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
LOUISIANA.
No. 492. Argued April 3, 4, 1916.-Decided May 1, 1916.
In the trial of an action under the Federal Employers' Liability Act
defendant is denied a Federal right if he is denied a fair opportunity
to show, in accordance with proper practice, negligence attributable
to the employee in diminution of damages; nor, in the absence of a
settled local rule of practice requiring counsel to announce in advance
the purpose for which evidence is tendered, can evidence as to contributory negligence be excluded because tendered without notice
that it is restricted to diminution of damages.
When evidence can be introduced for one purpose only it is unnecessary
for counsel in offering it to go through the idle form of announcing
its purpose.
137 Louisiana, 178, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the validity of a judgment for
damages recovered by the representative of an employee
of an interstate carrier in the state court and under the
Federal Liability Act, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. S. W. Moore, with whom Mr. F. W. Moore and
Mr. J. D. Wilkinson were on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Leon R. Smith, with whom Mr. Newton C. Blanchard
and Mr. Otis W. Bullock were on the brief, for defendant
in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the

opinion of the

court.

Claiming under the Federal Employers' Liability Act
(April 22, 1908, c. 149, 35 Stat. 65; April 5, 1910, c. 143,

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

36 Stat. 291), defendant in error brought this suit in a
state court against the railroad company to recover damages resulting from her husband's death by accident while
employed as engineer on a passenger train. A loaded car,
having escaped from the switching crew, ran down a long
grade, struck his engine with great violence as it was
rounding a curve near the Shreveport yard, and killed him;
The company denied negligence on its part but interposed no plea setting up the defense of contributory negligence. A jury found for the administratrix and judgment
thereon was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State.
During cross-examination of the fireman, counsel attempted to show that the engineer was negligent in not
having his train under proper control. The court sustained an objection "to any evidence as to contributory
negligence as same is not pleaded." Proper. exception was
taken and duly noted. Thereupon, the record recites,
"counsel for plaintiff asks that this objection and ruling
and bill of exceptions be made general to apply to all such
evidence and it is so ordered." Upon rehearing the Supreme Court held evidence of contributory negligence,
though not pleaded and inadmissible to defeat a recovery,
should have been received in mitigation of damages if
offered for that specific purpose. But it said the evidence
in question was properly excluded because tendered without restriction.
We have been cited to no authority showing a settled.
local rule requiring counsel, without inquiry by the court,
to announce in advance the purpose for which evidence
is tendered. Earlier cases in Louisiana lend support to
the contrary and commonly approved practice. Thompson v. Chauveau, 6 Mart. N. S. 458, 461; Hitchcock v.
North, 5 Robinson, 328, 329; Fortunich v. New Orleans,
14 La. Ann. 115; Caspar v. Prosdame, 46 La. Ann. 36.
See McAfee v..Crofford, 13 How. 446, 456; Buckstaff v.
Russell, 151 U. S. 626, 636; Farnsworthv. Nevada Co., 102

KANSAS CITY SOUTHERN RY. CO. v. JONES. 183
241 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

Fed. Rep. 578, 580; Hubbard v. Allyn, 200 Massachusetts,
166, 171; Mighell v. Stone, 175 Illinois, 261, 262.
It is declared by the act of Congress upon which the
suit is based :"Sec. 3. That in all actions hereafter brought against
.any such common carrier by railroad under or by virtue
of any of the provisions of this Act to recover damages
for personal injuries to an employee, or where such injuries
have resulted in his death; the fact :that the employee
may have been guilty of contributory negligence shall not
bar a recovery, but the damages shall be diminished by
the jury in proportion to the amount of negligence attributable to such employee.
Manifestly, under this provision a defendant carrier
has the Federal right to a fair opportunity to show in
diminution of damages any negligence attributable to the
employee.
The state Supreme Court upheld the railway company's
claim of right to show contributory negligence under its
general denial; but the trial court emphatically denied this
and positively excluded all evidence to that end. As,
under the Federal statute, contributory negligence is no
bar to recovery, the plain purpose in offering the excluded
evidence was to mitigate damages. In such circumstances
it was unnecessary to go through the idle form of articulating the obvious. If timely objection upon the ground
ultimately suggested by the Supreme Court had been
sustained, it could have been easily obviated; but counsel
had no reason to anticipate such a ruling and certainly,
we think, were not required to do so at their peril.
Plaintiff in error has been improperly deprived of a
Federal right. The judgment below is accordingly reversed and the cause remanded for further proceedings
not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.

