DAVIS v. OHIO.
241 U. S.

Counsel for Partiqs.

STATE OF OHIO ON RELATION OF DAVIS v. HILDEBRANT, SECRETARY OF STATE OF OHIO.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OHIO.

No. 987. Submitted May 22, 1916.-Decided June 12, 1916.
Whether the guarantee 'of a republican form of government has been
disregarded by the action of the people of a State in amending its
Constitution presents no justiciable controversy, but involves the
exercise by Congress of the authority vested in it by the Constitution.
Under the referendum amendment of 1912 to the constitution of Ohio,
the people of that State having disapproved of the state redistricting
law passed after Congress had enacted the apportionment act of
1911, and the state court having held that under the referendum
amendment the legislative liower was reserved in the people to be
expressed by referendum held, that:
The decision of the highest court of the State, that under such
amendment the legislative power of the State is now vested not
only in the General Assembly but also in the people by referendum
and that a law disapproved by the referendum was no law, is conclusive here.
Nothing in the act of Congress of August 8, 1911, 37 Stat. 13,
apportioning representation among the States, prevents the people
of a State from reserving a right of approval or disapproval by
referendum of a state act redistricting the State for the purpose
of congressional elections.

facts, which involve the construction and effect
of the referendum amendment of 1912 to the constitution
of the State of Ohio, are stated in the opinion.
THE

Mr. Sherman J. McPherson for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Edward C. Turner, Attorney General of the State
of Ohio, Mr. Edmond H. Moore and Mr. Timothy S. Hogan,
for defendants in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

241 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the

court.
By an amendment to the constitution of Ohio adopted
September 3, 1912, the legislative power was expressly
declared to be vested not only in the Senate and House
of Representatives of the State, constituting the General
Assembly, but in the people in whom a right was reserved
by way of referendum to approve or disapprove by popular vote any law enacted by the General Assembly.
And by other constitutional provisions the machinery
to carry out the referendum was created. Briefly they
were this: Within a certain time after the enactment of a
law by the Senate and House of Representatives and its
approval by the Governor, upon petition of six percentum
of the voters the question of whether the law should become operative was to be submitted to a vote of the people
and if approved, the law should be operative, and if not
approved, it should have-no effect whatever.
In May, 1915, the General Assembly of Ohio passed an
act redistricting the State for the purpose of congressional
elections by which act twenty-two congressional districts
were created in some respects differing from the previously
established districts, and this act after approval by the
Governor was filed in the office of the Secretary of State.
The requisite number of electors under the referendum
provision having petitioned for a submission of the law
to a popular vote, such vote was taken and the law was
disapproved. Thereupon in the Supreme Court of the
State the suit before us was begun against state election
officers for the purpose of procuring a mandamus directing
them to disregard the vote of the people on the referendum
disapproving the law and to proceed to discharge their
duties as such officers in the next congressional election
upon the assumption that the action by way of referendum
was void and that the-law which was disapproved was

DAVIS v. OHIO.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

subsisting and valid. The right to this relief was based
upon the charge that the referendum vote was not and
could not be a part of the legislative authority of the
State and therefore could have no influence on the subject of the law creating congressional districts for the
purpose of representation in Congress. Indeed it was in
substance charged that both from the point of view of the
state constitution and laws and from that of the Constitution of the United States, especially § 4 of Article I
providing that "The Times, Places and Manner of holding Elections for Senators and Representatives shall be
prescribed in each State by the Legislature thereof; but
the Congress may at any time by Law make or alter such
Regulations except as to Places of choosing Senators",
and also from that of the provisions of the controlling
act of Congress of August 8, 1911 (c. 5, 37 Stat. 13) apportioning representation among the States, the attempt
to make the referendum a component part of the legislative authority empowered to deal with the election of
members of Congress was absolutely void. The court
below adversely disposed of these contentions and held
that the provision as to referendum was a part of the
legislative power of the State, made so by the Constitutioni, and that nothing in the act of Congress of 1911 or
in the constitutional provision operated to the contrary
and that therefore the disapproved law had no existence
and was not entitled to be enforced by mandamus.
. Without going into the many irrelevant points which
are pressed in the argument and the various inapposite
authorities cited, although we have considered them all,
we think it is apparent that the whole case and every real
question in it will be disposed of by looking at it from
three points of view-the state power, the power of Congress, and the operation of the provision of the Constitution of the United States referred to.
1. As to the state power, we pass from its consideration,

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

since it is obvious that the decision below is conclusive
on that subject and makes it clear that so far as the State
had the power to do it, the referendum constituted a part
of the state constitution and laws and was contained
within the legislative power and therefore the claim that
the law which was disapproved and was no law under the
constitution and laws of the State. was yet valid and
operative, is conclusively established to be wanting in
merit.
.2. So far as the subject may be influenced by the power
of Congress, that is, to the extent that the will of Congress
has been expressed on the subject, we think the case is
equally without merit. We say this because we think
it is clear that Congress in 1911 in enacting the controlling
law concerning the duties of the States through their
legislative authority, to deal with the subject of the creation of congressional districts expressly modified the
phraseology of the previous acts relating to that subject
by inserting a clause plainly intended to provide that
where by the state constitution and laws the referendum
was treated as part of the legislative power, the power
as thus constituted should be held and treated to be
the state legislative power for the purpose of creating
congressional districts by law. This is the case since
under the act of Congress dealing with apportionment
which preceded the act of 1911, by § 4 it was commanded
that the existing districts in a State should continue in
force "until the legislature of such State in the manner
herein prescribed shall redistrict such state,"(act of February 7, 1891, c. 116; 26 Stat. 735), while in the act of 1911
there was substituted a provision that the redistricting
should be made by a State "in the manner provided by
the laws thereof." And the legislative history of this
last act. leaves no room for doubt that the prior words
were stricken out and the new words inserted for the
express purpose, in so far as Congress had power to do

DAVIS v. OHIO.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

it, of excluding the possibility of making the contention
as to referendum which is now urged. Cong. Rec., Vol.
47, pp. 3436, 3437, 3507.
3. To the extent that the contention urges that to
include the referendum within state legislative power
for the purpose of apportionment is repugnant to § 4
of Article I of the Constitution, and hence void even if
sanctioned by Congress because beyond the constitutional authority of that body, and hence- that it is the
duty of the judicial power so to declare, we again think
the contention is plainly without substance for the following reasons: It must rest upon the assumption that
to include the referendum in the scope of the legislative
power is to introduce a virus which destroys that power,
which in effect annihilates representative government
and causes a State where such condition exists to be not
republican in form in violation of the guarantee of the
Constitution. Const., § 4, Art. IV. But the proposition
and the argnnent disregard the settled rule that the
question of whether that guarantee of the Constitution
has been disregarded presents no justiciable controversy
but involves the exercise by Congress of the authority
vested in it by the Constitution. Pacific Telephone Co. v.
Oregon, 223 U. S. 118. In so far as the proposition challenges the power of Congress as manifested by the clause
in the act of 1911 treating the referendum as a part of
the legislative power for the purpose of apportionment
where so ordained by the state constitutions and laws,
the argument but asserts, on the one hand, that Congress
had no power to do that which from the point of view' of
§ 4 of Article I, previously considered, the Constitution
expressly gave the right to do. In so far as the proljosition may be considered as asserting, on the other hand,
that any attempt by Congress to recognize the referendum
as a part of the legislative authority of a State is obnoxious
to a republican form of government as provided by § 4

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

of Article IV, the contention necessarily but reasserts
the proposition on that subject previously adversely
disposed of. And that this is the inevitable result of the
contention is plainly manifest, since at best the proposition comes to the assertion that because Congress, upon
whom the Constitution has conferred the exclusive authority to uphold the guarantee of a republican form of
government, has done, something which it is deemed is
repugnant to that guarantee, therefore there was automatically created judicial authority to go beyond the
limits of judicial power and in doing so to usurp congressional power on the ground that Congress had mistakenly dealt with a subject which was within its exclusive control free from judicial interference.
It is apparent from these reasons that there must either
be a dismissal for want of jurisdiction because there is
no power to reexamine the state questions foreclosed
by the decision below and because of the want of merit
in the Federal questions relied upon, or a judgment of
affirmance, it being absolutely. indifferent as to the result
which of the two be applied. In view, however, of the
subject-matter of the controversy and the Federal characteristics which inhere in it, we are of opinion, applying
the rule laid down in Swafford v. Templeton, 185 U. S. 487,
the decree proper to be rendered is one of affirmance and
such a decree is therefore ordered.
Affirmed.

