SOUTHERN RY. v. GRAY.
241 U. S.

Syllabus.

We are asked in effect to reconsider the question discussed and definitely determined in Harrison v. St. L. &
San FranciscoR. R., 232 U. S. 318. We there said (p. 328):
"The judicial power of the United States as created by
the Constitution and provided for by Congress pursuant
to its constitutional authority, is a power wholly independent of state action and which therefore the several
States may not by any exertion of authority in any form,
directly or indirectly, destroy, abridge, limit or render
inefficacious."
Affirmed.

SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY v. GRAY,
ADMINISTRATRIX OF GRAY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NORTH
CAROLINA.

No. 355.

Argued May 5, 1916.-Decided May 22, 1916.

Contradictory statements made by a witness prior to his examination
in the case can have no legal tendency to establish the truth of their
subject-matter.
Rights and obligations under the Federal Employers' Liability Act
depend upon that Act and applicable principles of common law as
interpreted and applied in Federal courts.
In an action under the Federal Employers' Liability Act, negligence
by the employer is essential to a recovery, and where there is no evidence to show why a brakeman, sent to guard his train, should lie
down and go to sleep on the track within a short distance of a
curve, negligence cannot be imputed to the engineer of an approaching passenger train for not stopping his train before striking him,
it appearing that the distance from the curve was less than that in
which a train could be stopped even if a light could have been seen.
The engineer of an approaching train, on seeing thelights of a brakeman sent out to guard the latter's train, has a right to presume

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

that the brakeman is standing on guard and he does not owe such
brakeman a duty to immediately stop his train so as to avoid hitting
him.
167 Nor. Car. 433, reversed.
THE facts, which involve the validity of a verdict and
judgment in an action under the Employers' Liability
Act, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. L. E. Jeffries, with whom Mr. H. O'B. Cooper and
Mr. L. L. Oliver were on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Thomas H. Calvert, with whom Mr. John A. Barringer was on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDs delivered the opinion of the
court.
Kenneth L. Gray, an experienced brakeman, was of
the crew in charge of plaintiff in error's north-bound interstate freight train which started from Spencer at 9:45
P. M. August 29, 1912. Seeking damages for his death,
the administratrix brought this suit under the Federal
Employers' Liability Act (c. 149, 35 Stat. 65; c. 143, 36
Stat. 291) in the Superior Court, Randolph County, N. C.
Among other things her amended complaint alleges:
"5. That on the 30th day of August, 1912, the intestate
of the plaintiff was on a freight train running from Spencer
in the State of North Carolina to Washington, D. C.,
through the State of Virginia, and when the freight train
upon which the intestate of the plaintiff was operating
in going north arrived at Dry Fork, in the State of Virginia, the intestate of the plaintiff was sent forward about
three-quarters of a mile to signal a passenger train of defendant coming south; that the intestate of the plaintiff
when he had gotten about three-quarters of a mile from
Dry Fork, for some reason-loas of sleep or for some other

SOUTHERN RY. v. GRAY.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

cause unknown to the plaintiff-laid down by the side
of the track of the defendant with his head on the end of
the cross-ties and went to sleep; that shortly thereafter
passenger train No. 37, coming south as aforesaid, carelessly and negligently ran over the intestate
.
"7. That the death of the intestate of the plaintiff
was caused without fault on his part and by the wrongful
and negligent act of the defendant, in that both the engineer and the fireman upon the passenger train which
killed the intestate of the plaintiff could have easily seen
the intestate of the plaintiff lying in a helpless condition
as aforesaid upon the track of the defendant, the track
of the defendant being straight a sufficient distance upon
which the said passenger train was running toward the
intestate of the plaintiff to have stopped the train or
slackened its speed sufficiently to have prevented the
killing of the intestate of the plaintiff, ran their train
onto the intestate of the plaintiff without ringing the bell,
without blowing its whistle, without slackening its speed
or without stopping the said train; in that the servants
of the defendant did not keep proper lookout on the track
in. front of the engine and have the engine and train of the
defendant in proper control so that they eould stop the
engine of the defendant in time to have prevented the
wrongful killing of the intestate of the plaintiff; in that
the servants of the defendant did not see the intestate of
the plaintiff, which it was their duty to do and which
they could have done by ordinary care until the train
was so near the prostrate form of the intestate of the plaintiff that the servants of the defendant could not stop the
train in time to save the life of the intestate of the plaintiff; in that the servants of the defendant wrongfully
killed the intestate of the plaintiff upon the said occasion
when they had the last clear chance to save his life, which
they failed to do by the exercise of ordinary care."

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

The accident occurred at 5:14 A. M.-twenty minutes
before sunrise-when it was somewhat foggy and ordinary
objects on the ground could not readily be seen without
artificial light. Approaching Dry Fork station the freight
train stalled and having been divided into two sections
these were hauled onto sidings there. After placing section one and as he returned by the main track to bring
up section two, the freight engineer directed Gray to flag
south-bound passenger train No. 37. It was the latter's
duty, with a red and white lantern in hand, to go forward
eighteen telegraph poles (half a mile) and lay a torpedo
on the track; then to go nine poles further and place two
torpedoes; then to return, stand near pole eighteen and
await the expected train. No torpedo was put in place;
but having advanced some three-quarters of a mile he
set the lanterns on the track, lay down with his head on a
crosstie and went to sleep. There is nothing to explain
this action.
From Banister Hill two and one-fourth miles southward
and almost to Dry Fork the track, following several curves,
descends on a heavy grade. Commencing say threefourths of a mile down this grade it runs in a straight
line one-eighth mile; then around a sharp curve to the
right, passing through a deep cut, to a point some six
hundred feet from where the brakeman lay; then again
in a straight line some four hundred feet; and thence
around a moderate curve to the left perhaps a half mile.
On the. west side of this last curve approximately 217
feet from its north end is the spot where Gray slept. Coming south along the track in broad daylight one can first
see it when he reaches a point on the right-hand curve in
the deep cut 1254 feet away.
Passenger train No. 37, properly equipped, 790 feet
long, composed of ten cars-six steel sleepers and four
other cars-a tender and engine, came down the long
grade running fifty-five miles an hour. The engineer says

SOUTHERN RY. v. GRAY.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that approaching the right-hand curve he blew a station
signal; when he reached point in the cut where it first became possible to see the lights he blew a flagman's signal;
almost immediately thereafter, seeing the body, he put on
brakes, turned off steam and did everything possible to
check the train; before this could be done, a low step
struck the brakeman's head. Just before No. 37 blew for
that station (it was not scheduled to stop there) the freight
engine, standing at Dry Fork, signaled for Gray's return.
Three engineers testified that in the circumstances the
passenger train could not have been stopped in less than
1900 feet, and no other evidence was offered on this point.
There is nothing indicating that after the engineer saw or
could have seen the brakeman's body the train could have
been.stopped before reaching it.
In an effort to discredit the passenger engineer, only
witness to some circumstances, he was asked on crossexamination concerning prior contradictory statements;
but the exclusion of all or any part of his evidence would
not change the result. Of course the contradictory statements can have no legal tendency to establish 'the truth
of their subject-matter. Donaldson v. N..Y., N. H. &
H. R. R., 188 Massachusetts, 484, 486; McDonald v.
N. Y. C. &c. R. R., 186 Massachusetts, 474; Commonwealth v. Starkweather, 10 Cush. 59; Sloan v. R. R., 45
N. Y. 125; Purdy v. People, 140 Illinois, 46.
Following local practice, at close of all the evidence
a motion was made to dismiss as of non-suit, because
negligence by the railroad had not been shown. The
court denied this and submitted two issues to the jury"whether the intestate of the plaintiff was killed by the
negligence of the defendant, as alleged in the complaint"
and "what damage, if any, is the plaintiff entitled to recover." In connection with these a lengthy and rather
involved charge was given, the objections to which it is
not now necessary for us to consider. Judgment upon a

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

verdict for the administratrix was affirmed.by the Supreme
Court. 167 N. Car. 433.
Plaintiff in error maintains that the trial court erred in
overruling its motion to dismiss and also relies upon
objections to the charge. Counsel for defendant in error
claim all instructions were correct and insist that the verdict is adequately supported by evidence. Concerning
the latter they say:
"On the testimony and the law applicable to the case
the jury could have arrived at the following conclusions:
"1. That there was an unobstructed view of more than
1,200 feet from the danger signals and- the place the
intestate was struck.
"2. That the red and white lights were on the track.
This was undisputed.
"3. That it was the duty of the engineer to keep a
lookout for danger signals.
"4. That the fact the train approached about 1,300 feet
distant around a curve did not excuse the engineer from
keeping a lookout down the track.
"5. That the lights on the track could in fact be more
easily seen when they were in the darkness and out of the
direct rays of the headlight as the train was entering the
straight track from the curve.
"6. That in the exercise of ordinary care the engineer
could have seen the lights at a point more than 1,200 feet
distant. .
"7. That the engineer should have blown his signal as
soon as .he saw the danger signals, or by the exercise of
ordinary care could have seen them, which was when he
was more than 1,200 feet distant.
"8. That instead of bringing his train under control and
trying to stop it as soon as he saw, or by the exercise of
ordinary care could have seen, the lights the engineer
waited until he saw the intestate lying beside the track."
As the action is under the Federal Employers' Liability

SOUTHERN RY. v. GRAY.

241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Act, rights and obligations depend upon it and applicable
principles of common law as interpreted and applied in
Federal courts. Seaboard Air Line v. Horton, 233 U. S.
492; Central Vermont Ry. v. White, 238 U. S. 507; Great
Northern Ry. v. Wiles, 240 U. S. 444.
Negligence by the railway company is essential to a
recovery; and there is not a scintilla of evidence to show
this under the most favorable view of the testimony urged
by counsel for defendant in error. When it first became
possible for the engineer to see signal lights 1254 feet away
he had a right to suppose the brakeman was standing
there on guard. Immediately, he says, the customary
signal was sounded. No duty to the brakeman demanded
an instant effort to stop the train-the indicated danger
was more than half a mile away. Moreover, application of
emergency apparatus on that moment, it appears, would
not have caused a stop in time to prevent the accident.
There is no evidence that the engineer could have seen the
brakeman a single moment before he did or omitted thereafter to do all within his power.
We think the motion to dismiss should have been
granted. The judgment below is accordingly reversed and
the cause remanded to the Supreme Court of North
Carolina for further proceedings not inconsistent with
this opinion.
Reversed.

