OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

241 U. S.

was part of the scheme. He directed and superintended
its construction. And it was a systematic structure, not
a mere dumping place or deposit for iaterial. It was
constructed upon lines, slopes and grades and of selected
materials. Further, in continued manifestation of his
judgment that the contract included it and in approval
of its conformity to the contract, he directed payment
for it. There is nothing which reflects upon the sincerity
of his judgment and it is necessarily the important factor
in determining the responsibility of the Government.
Whether the roadway was necessary or accessory to
the filtration plant is not important to consider. We may
observe, however, that it was subsequently finished by
the United States, and manifestly deemed desirable.
Judgment reversed and cause remanded with directions
to enter judgment for appellant on the findings and in
accordance with this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the consideration and decision of this case.

DE LA RAMA v. DE LA RAMA.
ERROR TO AND APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE
PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.
No. 216.

Submitted April 18, 1916.-Decided May 1,"1916.

The rule that local practice, sanctioned by the local courts, should not
be disturbed, appliod in this case to the union of two causes of action,
one of divorce and the other separation of the conjugal property,
and both within the jurisdiction of the Court of First Instance of
the Philippine Islands.
An objection to the competency of the presiding judge which was not

DE LA RAMA v. DE LA RAMA.
241 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

made in the courts below, and could have been corrected if made
in the trial court, cannot be tolerated in this court except under
the most peremptory requirements of law.
Due process of law does not forbid a hearing upon a transcript of
evidence formerly heard in court; and where, as in this case, the
parties assented to the course pursued.
As the evidence is not before this court, and there is nothing in the
record to control the opinion of the Supreme Court of the Philippine
Islands that the method adopted by the Court of First Instance
was substantially in accord with the method prescribed by the Code,
this court disallows an attempt to open questions of detail, no clear
and important error being shown and the matter being one of local
administration.
A discretion is recognized in regard to allowing interest even in matters
of tort; and .this court will not hold that the court below erred in
fixing the date at which, but for the law's delay, the money would
have been paid, even though the appellate court did reduce the
amount awarded by the trial court.
The review of judgments of this nature of the Supreme Court of the
Philippine Islands is by appeal and not by writ of error.

TuE facts, which involve the validity of provisions in
decree for divorce affecting division of conjugal property
made by the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands,
are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Rufus S. Day, Mr. Charles Edmond Cotterill and
Mr. Edmund W. Van Dyke for plaintiff in error and appellant:
The courts below were without, and erred in assuming,
jurisdiction to determine whether any, and if so what,
conjugal partnership property existed, or, on finding
that any did exist, to order a division thereof between
the parties, since the proceeding for divorce and the proceeding to secure a separation of the property were required by law in the Philippines to be instituted, if at
all, in separate actions, and they were, therefore, improperly joined.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Argument for Appellant.

241 U. S.

The special judge who rendered the decision purporting to be. that of the Court of First Instance of Iloilo in
the branch of the proceedings that relates to the separation of the conjugal partnership property, and which
is now here for review, was not properly designated and
empowered, nor did he afterwards properly qualify himself to act. He was, therefore, without jurisdiction.
The retrial in the Court of First Instance with respect
to the existence and value of the conjugal partnership
property and the amount divisible between the parties
was not in conformity with law in that the case was not
decided by the judge who presided at the retrial, and
before whom the witnesses appeared, but by another
judge; before whom not a single witness appeared, and
who was specially assigned to the case when the trial
judge had resigned his office without having announced
a decision.
The courts below erred in attempting to liquidate the
claim of the wife to a share in the conjugal partnership
property as of July 5, 1902, the date of the judgment of
divorce. The Supreme Court of the Islands erred in
not reversing the trial court because of the failure of that
court to require an inventory required by law; also in
sustaining the holding of that court to the effect that
an alleged share in the supposed profits of a firm to which
appellant belonged was property in his possession, though
there was no proof of the existence of such profits at the
time of the trial or rendition of the judgment; also in
affirming that part of the judgment of the Court of First
Instance which includes in the award to the wife an
amount arrived at by an attempt to compute profits of
said firm based on mere conjecture.
The court below erred in affirming the judgment of the
Court of First Instance, that allows interest on the
amount stated therein from July 5, 1902.
In support of these contentions, see Behn Co. v. Camp-

DE LA RAMA v. DE LA RAMA.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

bell, 205 U. S. 402; Chew Heong v. United States, 112
U. S. 436; Vols. I and IX, Codigo Civil Interpretado por
el Tribunal Supremo, El-by Martinez Ruiz; Vols. I and
IX, Comentarios al Codigo Civil Espafiol-by Manresa y
Navarro; vol. 23, Cyclopoedia of Law and Procedure;
De la Rama v. De la Rama, 201 U. S. 203; 1 Encyc. P1.
& Pr.; Garrozi v. Dastas, 204 U. S. 64; Gsell v. Insular
Collector, 239 U. S. 93; Ill. Cent. R. R. v. Turrill, 110
U. S. 301; Kneeland v. Am. Trust Co., 138 U. S. 509;
Mansfield &c. Ry. v. Swan, 111 U. S. 379; Minnesota v.
Hitchcock, 185 U. S. 382; Thomas v. Board of Trustees,
195 U. S. 207; United States v. Levois, 17 How. 85.
Mr. Frederic R. Coudert and Mr. Howard Thayer Kingsbury for defendant in error and appellee.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered -the opinion of the

court.
This is a suit by a wife for divorce, alimony pendente
lite and a division of the conjugal property. It has been
before this court in the first aspect, 201 U. S. 303, and now
comes here on matters affecting the division of property,
beginning with the fundamental objection that the division could not be asked in the divorce suit but must proceed on the footing of a decree already made. As to
this it is enough to say that no such error was assigned as
a ground for appeal, and the objection. comes too late.
At the previous stage the right of the plaintiff to her
proportion of the conjugal property, to alimony pending
suit and to other allowances claimed, was said to be the
basis of our jurisdiction. 201 U. S. 318. Villanueva v.
Villanueva, 239 U. S. 293, 294. The Court of First Instance had jurisdiction of the subject-matter, and the
separation or union of the two causes was merely a question of procedure and convenience. The defendant ir-

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

pliedly admitted the jurisdiction by pleading that there
was no common property and that "therefore" the separation should be denied. After the matter had been adverted to by the trial judge and the joinder declared
proper it was dealt with as legitimate by the Supreme
Court and upon a petition for rehearing the only objections urged by the defendant concerned matters of detail.
There is every reason that the local practice sanctioned
in this case by the local courts should not be disturbed.
The next error alleged in argument also was not assigned.
It is that Judge Norris who first heard the evidence having resigned, Judge McCabe, of the Court of First Instance, who finally decided the separation of conjugal
property, was designated by Judge Ross (before whom
otherwise the case would have come), on the ground
that the latter was disqualified; and that Judge Ross had
no power to do so under the Code of Civil Procedure then
in force. Upon this point again we should not disturb
the course adopted by the local tribunals without stronger
reasons than are offered here and therefore do not discuss
the question at length. The parties could have agreed
in writing upon a judge and they did agree in writing at a
later stage that Judge McCabe should decide the case
without waiting for the action of the assessors whom the
law provides to assist upon matters of fact. This objection
like the preceding seems not to have been even suggested
to the Supreme Court of the Philippines. To listen to it
now would be not to prevent but to accomplish an injustice-not to be tolerated except under the most peremptory requirement of law.
The next point argued, again not assigned as error,
is that it seems from the opinion of the judge of first
instance that the trial was had upon the evidence that
had been offered before Judge Norris. If we are to assume
the fact, it is a most extraordinary suggestion that, even
though the parties seem to have assented to the course

DE LA RAMA v. DE LA RAMA.
241 U. S.

-

Opinion of the Court.

pursued, due process of law forbids a hearing upon a.
transcript of evidence formerly heard in court. We shall
say no more upon this point.
The errors that were-assigned may be disposed of with
equal brevity. The first one is the taking of July 5, 1902,
the date of the decree of divorce, afterwards affirmed,
as the date for liquidating the wife's claim. It is urged
that there was no formal decree of separation of the
property and that until such an order had been made
the court had no right to enter a judgment, It also is
*.argued that there was no such inventory as was required
* by law. But the testimony and other evidence are not
bqfore us, and; apart from our often stated unwillingness
to interfere with matters of local administration unless
clear and .important error is shown, there is nothing in
the record sufficient to control the opinion of the Supreme
Court of the Islands that 'the method adopted by [the
judge of first instance] in liquidating the- assets of the
conjugal partnership was substantially in accord with
the method prescribed in the code.' We disallow the
attempt to reopen some questions of detail such as a
charge of estimated profits, upon this and other grounds.
See Piza Hermanos v. Caldentey, 231. U. S.690.
The only remaining item is charging interest on the
judgment from July 5, 1902. But that was the date at
which but for the delays of the law the wife would have
received her dues, the husband has had the use of the
money meanwhile, and we are not prepared to say that
it was not at least -within the discretion of the, court to
allow the charge, notwithstanding the success of. the husband in reducirig the amount on appeal. ,Stoughton v.
Lynch, 2 Johns. Ch. 209, 219. Hollister v. Barkley, 11
N. Hi 501, 511. See Barnhart'v.Edwards, 128 California,
572. McLimanw v. Lancaster, 65 Wisconsin, 240. Rawling8 v. Anheuser-Busch Brewing Co., 69 Nebraska, 34. A
discretion is recognized even in actions of tort. Eddy v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Statement of the Case.

.1 241 U. S.

Lafayette, 163 U. S. 456, 467. Frazer v. Bigelow Carpet
Co., 141 Massachusetts, 126. The judgment upon the
appeal will be affirmed and the writ of error dismissed.
De la Rama v. De la Rama, 201 U. S. 303. Gsell v. Insular

Collector of Customs, 239 U. S. 93.
Writ of error dismissed.
Judgment affirmed.

JOHNSON, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY OF WARREN CONSTRUCTION COMPANY, v. ROOT
MANUFACTURING COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 308.

Argued April 18, 1916.-Decided May 1, 1916.

An agreement was made by way of compromise more than four months
before the petition was filed to pay from a fund of which the banktupt was entitled to the residue all lienable claims, including claims
of one who had waived the right to file liens, but had subsequently
filed claiming the right so to do owing to failure of bankrupt to fulfil
contract, and to whom payments were made from the fund within
four months of the filing of the petition which the trustee brought
suit to recover as preferential. Held that the earlier agreement
created an equitable lien in favor of all parties thereto having color
of right, and the payments thereunder did not become preferential
because the amounts were not ascertained and liquidated until
within the four-month period.
219 Fed. Rep. 397, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the right of a trustee in bankruptcy to recover an alleged preferential payment made

by the bankrupt within four months of the filing of the
petition under an agreement made more than four months

before the filing, are stated in the opinion.

