ST. LOUIS & SAN FRAN. R. R. v. BROWN.
241 U. S.

223

Syllabus.

which state and national courts drew their authority,
recognized the unity of the governments, national and
state, and the common fealty of all courts, both state and
national, to both state and national constitutions, and
the duty resting upon them, when it was within the scope
of their authority, to protect and enforce rights lawfully
created, without reference to the particular government
from whose exercise of lawful power the right arose.
Affirmed.

ST. LOUIS & SAN FRANCISCO RAILROAD COMPANY v. BROWN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
OKLAHOMA.

No. 399.

Argued April 19, 20, 1916.-Decided May 22, 1916.

Minneapolis & St. Louis R. R. v. Bombolis, ante, p. 211, followed to
effect that a verdict in an action under the Federal Employers'
Liability Act which is not unanimous, but which is legal under the
law of the State, is not violative of the Seventh Amendment, and
that such Amendment has no application to proceedings in state
courts.
The fact that after the close of the testimony a plaintiff suing under
both the Employers' Liability Act and the Safety Appliance Act
withdrew his claim under the latter act, held in this case not to
amount to a withdrawal of the testimony in regard to defective
condition of the appliances and entitle defendant to direction of
verdict on the ground of assumption of risk as the testimony was
admissible under the issues based on the former act.
The fact that the state appellate court may have inaccurately expressed
in one respect its reasons for affirmance, does not require this court
to reverse, if, in fact, no reversible error exists.
The trial court having instructed the jury that if they found the plaintiff guilty of contributory negligence they should reduce his damages

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

in proportion to the amount of negligence attributable to him, failure
to define the word proportion held in this case, not error.

THE facts, which involve the validity of a verdict and
judgment for damages under the Employers' Liability
Act, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. C. B. Stuart, Mr. W. I. Cruce, Mr. L. S. Dolman,
Mr. A. C. Cruce and Mr. M. K. Cruce were on the brief,
for the defendant in error.'
Mr. W. F. Evans, Mr. R. A. Kleinschmidt and Mr. J. H.
Grant were on the brief, for the plaintiff in error.'
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of

the court.
Basing his cause of action upon the Federal Employers'
Liability and Safety Appliance Acts, Brown, the defendant in error, sued to recover damages resulting from injuries alleged to have been occasioned by the negligence
of the Railroad Company while he was in its employ
and engaged in interstate commerce. At the close of
the testimony the claim under the Safety Appliance Act
was withdrawn and the case was submitted to the jury
alone upon the Employers' Liability Act. There was a
verdict and judgment for the plaintiff which was affirmed
by the court below.
There was a sharp conflict between the testimony offered on behalf of the plaintiff and that on behalf of the
defendant. The material facts diiclosed by the plaintiff's
testimony are as follows: Brown, a head brakeman and
other members of a local freight train crew on the day
in question were engaged in the yards at Ashdown, Arkansas, in making up an extra freight train to be taken out
by an extra crew to Hugo, Oklahoma. The cars intended
'See note on p. 212, ante,

ST. LOUIS & SAN FRAN. R. R. v. BROWN.
241 U. S.

225

Opinion of the Court.

for the interstate train were placed on an east and west
passing track east of a switch connecting a spur track
which ran in a northeasterly direction past a stave mill.
After placing some cars from the spur track on the passing
track the engine returned to the spur track with several
cars, some of which were to be left at the mill and the
remainder brought out and coupled to those already
collected for the train and standing on the passing track.
Brown accompanied the cars and after cutting off those
intended for the mill gave the engineer a signal to go ahead,
the engine being headed west, and when the cars approaching the switch came opposite the car on the passing track
to which the coupling was to be made, Brown crossed
over from the spur track to the passing track to adjust
the coupler on the car standing there. Finding the knuckle
of the coupler closed, he attempted to open it with the
lever at the side of the car, but it did not work. He then
tried to manipulate the knuckle with his hand, but could
get it only part way open and closing it, he stepped out
to the north side of the track (the engineer's side). As
the last car coupled with the engine was then just clearing
the switch, he gave the engineer a stop signal and walked
west to the switch stand to set the switch so that the
engine and cars might be backed to make the coupling.
By the time he had walked the short intervening distance
and set the switch the engine had come to a stop with
the rear car a few steps west of the switch. Intending
then to adjust the coupler on the end of this car, Brown
gave the engineer, who was watching him, a "spot" signal which indicated that he was not to move the engine
until a further signal was given by Brown, and crossed
over to the s6uth side of the track in order to use the lifting pin to open the knuckle of the coupler. When the lever
failed to work he stepped behind the car and was about
to try to open the knuckle with his hand when he heard the
cars ahead of him move. He at once turned to leave the

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

track, but was struck and knocked down by the car which
was backed in disregard of the "spot" signal and his feet
were caught under the wheels and crushed.
The assignments of error are numerous, but those requiring to be specially noticed may be disposed of under
three headings:
1. The contention that rights of the Railroad Company guaranteed by the Seventh Amendment were violated because only nine of the twelve jurors concurred
in the verdict is without merit. Minneapolis & St. Louis
R. R. v. Bombolis, ante, p. 211.
2. A twofold contention is based upon rulings concerning the doctrine of the assumption of the risk. Upon
the withdrawal by the plaintiff of his claim under the
Safety Appliance Act the court charged the jury concerning assumption of the risk as follows:
"You are instructed that by accepting employment
as a brakeman with the defendant, the plaintiff assumed
the risk of such dangers as are ordinarily incident to the
occupation he was engaged in, and if you find that his
injury was occasiored by one of the incidents ordinarily
attending the occupation upon which he was engaged,
you should return a verdict for the defendant, but you
are instructed in this connection that the plaintiff only
assumed the risks that are ordinarily incident to the
occupation in which he was engaged, and that he did not
assume the risks that were attendant upon the negligence
of a fellow servant."
(a) It is insisted that the abandonment of the claim
as to a violation of the Safety Appliance Act necessarily
withdrew all evidence tending to show that the couplers
were defective and in the absence of such evidence the
proof established as a matter of law that the plaintiff
assumed thc risk and the court should have directed a
verdict in favor of the railroad. We think the proposition is plainly without merit. The testimony concerning

ST. LOUIS & SAN FRAN. R. R. v. BROWN.
241 U. S.

227

Opinion of the Court.

the condition of the couplers was clearly admissible under
the issues based on the Employers' Liability Act as explaining the occasion for Brown's being on the track and
as negativing negligence on his part. In so far as the
contention implies that the withdrawal of the claim was
a concession that the testimony relating to the couplers
was false, we think the conclusion is wholly unwarranted.
If we were to conjecture as to the reason for the abandonment of the claim under the Safety Appliance Act, we
think it at least quite as probable that plaintiff's counsel
were of opinion that in the situation disclosed by the
plaintiff's testimony the Safety Appliance Act was inapplicable.
(b) In the court below it would seem that the correctness of the general instruction as to assumption of the
risk which we have quoted as given by the trial court was
challenged on a ground which has been abandoned because not here pressed. But it is said reversible error
exists because the court below in passing upon such objection remarked that as the "defendant's liability to plaintiff grows out of a violation of a statutory duty, arising
under an act of Congress," assumption of the risk was
not a defense. This it is said was erroneous, first, because
so far as the Safety Appliance Act was concerned, it was
inapposite, as reliance upon that law by the plaintiff had
been disclaimed, and second, because, under the facts
it was open to find the existence of assumption of the risk
depending upon conditions of fact not involved in the
Safety Appliance Act. But we fail to see the pertinency
of this objection, as there is now no contention concerning
the correctness of the charge as to assumption of the risk
upon which the case was submitted to the jury for their
verdict. At best therefore the error asserted simply
amounts to contending that because the court below may
have inaccurately expressed in one respect its reasons
for aflirmance, that inaccuracy gives rise to the duty of

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

reversing the judgment although no reversible error
exists.
3. It is contended that the court erred in charging
the jury that in the event they found the plaintiff guilty
of contributory negligence they should "reduce his damages in proportion to the amount of negligence which is
attributable to him," since the court did not define the
word proportion and hence failed to fix any standard by
which the damages should b measured. The charge is
clearly distinguishable from the instruction dipapproved
in Seaboard Air Line v. Tilghman, 237 U. S. 499, which is
relied upon, since in that case the jury were in effect
instructed to diminish the damages according to their
conception of what was reasonable. The instruction
given is almost in the identical language of the statute
and while definition might have further conduced to an
appreciation by the jury of the standard established by
the statute, we think there was no error in the charge
given, especially as the railroad company made no request for a.charge clarifying any obscurity on the subject
which it deemed eiisted. It is true the company made
a request on the subject which the court declined to give,
but that request, we are of opinion, taken as a whole
instead of clarifying any ambiguity deemed to exist in
the instruction which the court gave would have served
to obscure it. There was no error therefore, leaving aside
the question whether the requested instruction did not
contain matters which if given would have been erroneous.
Although we have examined the whole record and as
the result of that examination conclude there is no ground
for reversal, we have not particularly noticed subjects
embraced by some of the assignments but not pressed
in argument and others not embraced by the assignments
but indirectly referred to in the argument.
Affirmed.

