OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

241 U. S.

language that we have quoted. It now is suggested that
there is a distinction between the point decided there
and here, the failure there having been to warn the miner,
and that the remarks of the court were obiter dicta. We
shall go into no nice inquiry upon this point. The statements were statements of the principle of the decision and
it was the duty of the Circuit Court of Appeals to follow
them. Still less does it matter in a case like this, if, as
is said, the latter court had decided otherwise at an earlier
time.
Concerning the fgcts to which the ruling here dealt
with applied, it is enough to say that the evidence warranted a finding by the jury that the defendant had neglected the duties absolutely imposed upon it, without
now going into the details of the different views that
might have been taken. The other matters that have
been argued here, as to the plaintiff's contributory negligence, etc., need not be mentioned further than to say
that we see no ground in them for a different result from
that which we have reached.
Judgment reversed.
Judgment of District Court afirmed.

SUPREME

LODGE, KNIGHTS
MIMS.

OF PYTHIAS

v.

ERROR TO THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH
SUPREME JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.
No. 345.

Argued May 1, 2, 1916.-Decided June 12, 1916..

Where the case necessarily turns on the construction of act of Congress, which is the charter of one of the parties, a Federal ques-

tion is presented, and this court has jurisdiction under § 237, Jud.

KNIGHTS OF PYTHIAS v. MIMS.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Code, if the construction contended for by plaintiff in error was
rejected by the court below.
Under § 4 of the Act of June 29, 1894, constituting the charter of the
Knights of Pythias, giving a right to have by-laws and to amend the
same, the corporation: had power to raise rates for life benefits to
such point as was:necessary for it to go, and a member continuing
to remain therein was obligated to pay the assessments fixed by the
laws as amended.

THE facts, which involve the construction of the chartet
granted by act of Congress to the Knights of Pythis
and the rights and obligations of a holder of its insurande
certificates, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. M. M. Crane, with whom Mr. H. P. Brown, Mr.
Edwin Crane, Mr. James P. Goodrich, Mr. Ward H. Watson, Mr. James E. Watson and Mr. Sol. H. Esarey were
on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Lawrence C. McBride, with whom Mr. Joseph E.
Cockrel, Mr. Thomas F. West and Mr. Edward Gray
were on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMEs delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is a suit against a corporation chartered by Congress on June 29, 1894 (c. 119; 28 Stat. 96), to recover all
sums paid by the plaintiff, the defendant in error, to the
defendant and its predecessors; the ground alleged being
that the defendant, the plaintiff in error, has demanded
monthly dues in excess of its rights and thereby has entitled the plaintiff to recover all that he had paid, with
interest.
The facts are as follows: The plaintiff originally took
out two certificates of insurance from an earlier corporation of the same name, the charter of which expired on

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

August 5, 1890. In May, 1885, he surrendered these certificates and took out a new one in what was called the
Fourth Class by which, in consideration of his original
declarations and representations and of the payment
"of all monthly payments as required, and the full complianca with all the laws governing this Rank, now in
force, or that may hereafter be enacted and shall be in
good standing under said laws" the sum of $3,000 was to
be paid to the plaintiff's wife, or such other beneficiary
as he might direct in proper form, upon notice and proof
of death and good standing at the time; provided, as
hereafter stated. It was further stipulated that any
violation of the conditions mentioned or the requirements
of the laws governing this Rank should avoid all claims.
By the certificate of incorporation the corporation had
power 'to alter and amend its Constitution and By-laws
at will'; the laws of 1880, then in force, provided that 'these
laws [regulating assessments inter aliaI may be altered or
amended at any regular session of the Supreme Lodge
K. of P.'; and by his .original application the plaintiff
agreed to conform tb the laws and regulations of the order
then in force or that might thereafter be enacted, or submit to the penalties therein contained.
The plaintiff contends that his contract took him out of
these reiterated provisions for possible change; and his
ground is that by Article V, § 4, of the laws of 1884,
creating the Fourth Class, the endowment fund for the
payment of benefits in that class was to be derived from
monthly payments from each member for each one thousand dollars of endowment, to be graded according to the
age of the member at the time of making application, and
his expectancy of life, the age to be taken at the nearest
birthday, "Said monthly payments shall be based upon
the average expectancy of life of the applicant, and shall
continue the same so long as his membership continues."
A table appended gave the rate for the different ages from

KNIGHTS OF PYTHIAS v. MIMS.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

21 to 60. At that time members were transferred to the
Fourth Class at the original entry age, which in the plaintiff's case was 42. These same laws of 1884 repeated the
former provision as to amendment by the Supreme Lodge,
now requiring a two-thirds vote. The recension of 1886
repeated the last-mentioned provision and set forth a
form of application by which the applicant agreed not
only, as heretofore, that he, but also that 'this contract
shall be controlled' by the laws then in force or that might
be enacted thereafter. The power to alter was applied in
1888 to the payments to be made by the Fourth Class.
The Board of Control wag ordered to rerate members
transferred to the Fourth Class as the plaintiff was, so
that thereafter they should pay as of the age at which
they were transferred instead of that at which they first
became members. Thereafter the plaintiff paid as of the
age of 48.
After the charter expired in 1890 the business was kept
going under the same name by a voluntary association,
the plaintiff paying his assessments as before, until on
June 29, 1894, the act of Congress mentioned incorporated certain persons named, 'officers and members of
the Supreme Lodge, Knights of Pythias' by the name of
'The Supreme Lodge Knights of Pythias' and authorized
them to use the powers 'incidental to fraternal and benevolent corporations within the District of Columbia.'
By the third section of the charter- "all claims, accounts,
debts, things in action or other matters of business of
whatever nature now existing for or against the present
Supreme Lodge Knights of Pythias, mentioned in § 1
of this act, shall survive and succeed to and against
the body corporate and politic hereby created; provided
that nothing contained herein shall be construed to extend
the operation of any law which provides for the extinguishing Of claims or contracts by limitations of time."
This is the main ground upon which the defendant is

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

sought to be charged with the certificate issued by the
former corporation. By § 4 "said corporation shall have
a constitution, and shall have power to amend the same at
pleasure; provided, that such constitution or amendments
thereof do not conflict with the laws of the United States
or of any State." Amendments to the laws of the association were adopted this same year, 1894, by one of which the
existing rates were retained and it was provided that each
member of the endowment rank should continue to pay
the same amount each month thereafter so long as he
remained a member, 'unless otherwise provided for by
the Supreme Lodge or Board of Control of the endowment rank.' A similar provision was made in 1900, but
the rate for the age of 48 was made $2.45 or $7.35 for the
$3,000 in the certificate. The plaintiff paid the rates
as established from time to time.
The split came in 1910. In that year the corporation
passed, a law providing for a rerating of every member
of the Fourth Class on January 11, 1911, in accordance
with his attained age and occupation, under which the
plaintiff's monthly 'payment would be raised to $34.80,
unless he accepted one of several options offered to him.
It should be added that his occupation played no part as
it was not ranked as hazardous. He was notified, but
declined to pay or otherwise accede to the change. On
January 20, 1911, he tendered $22.05 for the months of
January, February and March of that year, the tender was
refused and in May this suit was begun. The Court of
Civil Appeals affirmed a judgment for the plaintiff on a
verdict directed by the trial court, modifying it so far as
to confine the recovery to payments made since the issue
of the certificate of 1885, with interest. An application
to the Supreme Court for a writ of error was refused.
There is a motion to dismiss but as the case necessarily
will turn on the construction of the present charter, an
act of Congress, and the defendant justifies under it, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

Strong, 18 Wall. 624; Greey v. Dockendorff, 231 U. S. 513;
In re Great Western Mfg. Co., 152 Fed. Rep. 123, 127, 128;
HetOit v. Berlin Machine Works, 194 U. S. 296; Johnson V.
Hanley, 188 Fed. Rep. 752; Kelly v. Johnson, 251 Illinois,
135; 95 N. E. Rep. 1068; 36 L. R. A. (N. S.) 573, 577;
Kertscher v. Green, 205 N. Y.. 522; 99 N. E. Rep. 146;
Ketcham v. St. Louis, 101 U. S. 306, 315; Knapp v. Milwaukee Tr. Co., 216 U. S. 545; Long V. Caffrey, 93 Pa.
St. 526; Long v. Farmers State Bank, 147 Fed. Rep. 360;
9 L. R. A. (N. S.) 585; Ludowici Roofing Tile Co. v. Pa.
Inst. &c., 116 Fed. Rep. 661, 662; McCabe v. Rapid Transit
Co., 127 Fed. Rep. 465; McDonald v. Daskam, 116 Fed.
Rep. 276; McHenry v. Knickerbacker, 128 Indiana, 77.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit to recover an alleged preference from the
defendant in error. The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed.a judgment recovered by the plaintiff and ordered
judgment for the defendant. 219 Fed. Rep. 397; 135 C.
C. A. 139. This writ of error was taken out before the
passage of the Act of January 28, 1915, c. 22, § 4, 38 Stat.
803, 804.
The facts are these: On May 9, 1910, the Warren Construction Company, the bankrupt, had contracted to do
some construction for a railroad company, receiving
monthly payments on account, and agreeing that if at
any time there should be evidence of any lien for which
the railroad might become liable and which was chargeable to the Warren Company the railroad might retain
an amount sufficient to indemnify it. Should there prove
to be such a claim after the payments were made the
Warren Company agreed to refund all moneys the railroad
might be compelled to pay in discharging any lien made
obligatory in consequence 'of the Warren Company's
default. The Warren Company gave a bond with sureties
for the performance of this contract. Later it made a

JOHNSON v. ROOT MFG. CO.
241 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Mr. W. H. Thompson, with whom Mr. W. H. H. Miller,
Mr. C. C. Shirley, Mr. S. D. Miller, Mr. Fred H. Atwood,
Mr. Frank B. Pease, Mr. Charles 0. Loucks and Mr. Vernon R. Loucks were on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
The action was to cover an alleged unlawful preference.
The judgment of the District Court did not depend upon
diverse citizenship alone.
The defendant in error waived its lien. The right to
file a lien may be waived before lien accrues. No equitable
lien was created by agreement of January 12, 1912. There
was no equitable lien in this case.
Preferences in ordinary course of trade are voidable.
Accounts receivable may be disposed of in violation of
the Bankruptcy Act. The payment was made out of
bankrupt's funds.
Numerous authorities, state and Federal, support these
contentions.
Mr. Frank S. Roby and Mr. Elias D. Salsbury for defendant in error submitted:
The payment was not preferential; the agreement of
January 12, 1912, was more than four months prior to
the petition and created liens and was otherwise legal.
In support of these contentions see Albrecht v. Foster
Lumber Co., 126 Indiana, 318; Brzezinski v. Neeves, 93
Wisconsin, 567; 67 N. W. Rep. 1125; Carson-Payson Co.
v. C., C., C. & St. L. Ry. Co. (Ind. App. Ct.), 105
N. E. Rep. 503; Closson v. Billman, 161 Indiana,
610; Cushing v. Hurley, 112 Minnesota, 83,; 127 N. W.
Rep. 441; Continental & Commercial Tr. & Say. Bank
v. Chicago Title & Tr. Co., 229 U. S. 435; Coder
v. Arts, 213 U. S. 223, 229; In re Dismal Swamp
Contr. Co., 135 Fed. Rep. 415; Early v. Atchison &c.
Co., 167 Mo. App. 252; 149 S. W. Rep. 1170; In
re Ft. Wayne Electric Corp., 99 Fed. Rep. 400; Globe
Bank & Tr. Co. v. Martin, 236 U. S. 288; Grant v.

KNIGHTS OF PYTHIAS v. MIMS.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and duties of that association that the defendant assumed,
if we are to take the words in their literal sense. We spend
no time upon the inquiry what those rights and duties
were, because, as we have said, we assume that the plaintiff acquired a standing iit the new company. But in the
second stage as in the first the law establishing the Fourth
Class had received a practical construction as being open
to change, by the continued rating of the plaintiff at 48
instead of 42 as at first, and although the plaintiff says
in a general way that he protested, he paid, and he had
notice of what the earlier companies asserted to be their
rights when he came into the new one that asserted the
same and put them in force as against him. We mention
these details to show that the plaintiff suffers no injustice
and meets with no surprise when we state our opinion
that the assumption under § 3 of the new charter of a
relation with the plaintiff that originally arose under a
law of the old corporation was not the assumption of a
contract for immutable assessments, and decide that the
power to amend given by § 4 included the power to raise
the rates to such point as was necessary for the corporation to go on.
The plaintiff's certificate did not absolutely promise
to pay $3,000 if the plaintiff had performed the conditions. It contained a proviso by which if one monthly
payment by members holding an equal amount of endowment should not be sufficient to pay the sum, the amount
of the monthly payment should be the benefit received.
If all other Fourth Class certificates were in similar form
it may. be asked whether it was 'reasonable to. increase
the assessments rather than to allow the payments to
abate. The answer in addition to what we already have
said is that unless the corporation continued to make
substantial payments at death it could not go on. On the
evidence, at the end of 1910 the plaintiff's certificate was
worth very little or nothing. It well may have been

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

241 U. S.

thought better to rehabilitate the class rather than to
allow their certificates to become waste paper. At all
events that was the prevailing view in the republic to
which the plaintiff belonged, and as we have said the
charter authorized it to be enrced. It is unnecessary
to discuss the options that were offered in the alternative,
but it is proper to remember that for many years the
plaintiff has been insured, and although by what he is
not likely to regard as bad fortune his beneficiary has
not profited by it, she would have if he had died. As he
happily has lived, he has to bear the burdens incident to
the nature of the enterprise into which he went open eyed.
Judgment reversed.

SOUTHERN SURETY COMPANY v. STATE OF
OKLAHOMA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OKLAHOMA.

No. 124. Submitted December 9, 1915.-Decided June 12, 1916.
By reason of the conditions arising out of the presence of the Five
Civilized Tribes no organized territorial government was ever established in the Indian Territory; and, in the absence of an organized
local government, prosecutions for crime were, regardless of their
nature, commenced aid prosecuted in the name of the United States.
Adultery is an offense against the marriage relation and belongs to
the class of subjects which each State controls in its own way.
Adultery is a punishable offense only when the common or statute
law of the State so makes it, and where punishable, it is cognizable
only in the courts of the State.
Forts, arsenals and like places within the exterior limits of a State, but
over which exclusive jurisdiction has been ceded to the United
States, are not regarded as a part of the State but are excepted out of

