LANE v. MICKADIET.
241 U. S.

Syllabus.

that title to stock may be transferred by delivery of certificates and corporate books are not for public information.
'The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
"
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

LANE, SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR, v.
UNITED STATES EX REL. MICKADIET AND
TIEBAULT.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 449. Argued April 10, 1916.-Decided May 22, 1916.
The general rule that courts have no power to interfere with the performance by the Land Department of the administrative duties devolving upon it, although they may, when the functions of the Department are at end, correct, as between proper parties, errors of
law committed by the Department in such administration, held to
be applicable in this case, as no exception exists to take it out of
the rule.
Under the acts of May 8, 1906 and June 25, 1910, the Secretary of the
Interior has exclusive authority and jurisdiction to determine the
heirs of an allottee Indian who are entitled to succeed to the allotment made to him under the act of February 8, 1887, in case of his
death during the restricted period; and this authority includes the
right to reopen and review a previous administrative order on proper
charges of newly discovered evidence or fraud while the property is
still under administrative control.
A court has no power to issue a writ of mandamus to control the conduct of the Secretary of the Interior concerning a matter within
his administrative authority.
43 App. D. C. 414, reversed.

202

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

241 U. S.

THE facts, which involve the construction of the act
of February 8, 1887, and the jurisdiction of the courts
to control by mandamus the action of the Secretary of
the Interior concerning an allotment thereunder, axe
stated in the opinion.
The Solicitor General,with whom Mr. Robert Szold was
on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
Since the United States, the real party defendant,
has not consented to be sued in this cause, it should be
dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
The United States is the real party defendant. Naganab v. Hitchcock, 202 U. S. 473; Oregon v. Hitchcock,
202 U. S.60.
The immunity of the United States from suit is not
waived by failure to present the point in the lower court.
Carrv. United States, 98 U. S.433, 438; Stanley v. Schwalby,
162 U. S.255, 270.
Prior to conveyance of legal title to the heirs of the
Indian allottee the Secretary of the Interior has. jurisdiction to reconsider a determination of heirship.
The statutory direction that the Secretary's decision
shall be "final and conclusive" is addressed to the courts.
Hallowell v. Commons, 239 U. S.506; Pearsonv. Williams,
•202 U. S.281.
The decided- cases settle the general rule. Brown v.
Hitchcock, 173 U. S.473; Knight v. Lane, 228 U. S.6.
In this case the legal title beyond all doubt remains
in the United States. United States v. Rickert, 188 U. S.
432.
The judgment of the Secretary cannot be controlled
by mandamus. The petition was premature.
The order for rehearing was not arbitrary, but within
the exercise of reasonable discretion. Jaster v. Currie,
69 Nebraska, 4; Tucker v. Fisk, 154 Massachusetts,
574.

LANE v. MICKADIET.
241 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Mr. Irving F. Baxter, with whom Mr. Norris Brown,
Mr. Edward F. Colladay and Mr. Howard Saxton-were on
the brief, for the defendant in error:
There is no disagreement as to the facts. The petition
of the relators and the return thereto are in substantial
accord. The demurrer to the return and the assignments
of error appearing in the record present, in substance,
the following propositions of law:
The Secretary of the Interior is without jurisdiction
to annul a decision of his predecessor relating to property
rights because such decision is a judicial act and can only
be reviewed, if reviewable at all, by the courts.
The Secretary of the interior is without power under
the act of June 25, 1910, to review, vacate or ignore the
decree of adoption entered by the County Court.
The decree of adoption of the County Court, acting
within its jurisdiction, from which no appeal was taken,
is not subject to collateral attack, and the Secretary of
the Interior is without power or jurisdiction to annul,
modify, vacate or ignore said decree.
Harrison Tebo, who made the application to have the
decision of the Secretary of the Interior heretofore rendere' . in favor of these relators reviewed and vacated,
together with all other blood relatives of the deceased,
are estopped in law to question the validity of said decree
of adoption, said decree being final and binding upon
deceased in his lifetime and upon his heirs after his
death.
The petition of the relators to the Secretary of the Interior under the provisions of the act of May 8, 1906, to
issue to them patents in fee simple presented but one question within the jurisdiction of the Secretary to decide,
namely, whether said applicants were capable of managing
their own affairs and were hence entitled to such patents.
Said petition did not, and could not, raise any issue as
to their heirship.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

Mr. Charles J. Kappler -and Mr. Harry L. Keefe, by
leave of the court, filed a brief as amici curiw.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of

the court.
The relators, who are defendants in error, invoked
the aid of the trial court to control by mandamus the
action of the Secretary of the Interior concerning an allotment in severalty of land made to an Indian in pursuance of the authority conferred by the act of February 8,
1887 (c. 119, 24 Stat. 388), entitled "An Act to provide
for the allotment of lands in severalty to Indians on the
various reservations." Under the facts stated in his
return to the alternative rule the Secretary, asserting
that the land embraced by the allotment in question was
held in trust by the United States for the benefit of the
allottee and that the official action sought to be prohibited
was not subject to judicial control because it was one of
exclusive administrative authority, denied that there was
a right to grant the relief prayed. The return was demurred to as stating no ground for withholding the relief.
The trial court overruled the demurrer and discharged the
rule but the court below reversed and, holding that the
Secretary had no power to take the action which it was alleged he intended to take concerning the allotment in question, awarded the mandamus prayed (43 App. D. C. 414),
and the correctness of this ruling is the question now to
be decided.
The facts are these: Tiebault was a Winnebago Indian
living on the tribal reservation in Nebraska and in August, 1887, received an allotment in severalty of the tribal
land to which he was entitled made in virtue of the act
of 1887. That act after conferring authority upon the
Secretary of the Interior to make allotments of tribal
lands as therein specified, directed that official to issue

LANE v. MICKADIET.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to the allottees patents, which "shall be of legal effect,
and declare that the United States does and will hold
the lands thus allotted, for the period of twenty-five
years, in trust for the sole use and benefit of the Indian
to whom such allotment shall have been made, or, in
case of his decease, to his heirs according to the laws of
the State or Territory where such land is located, and
that at the expiration of such period the United States
will convey the same by patent to said Indian, or his
heirs as aforesaid, in fee, discharged of said trust and free
of all charge or encumbrance whatsoever: Provided, That
the President of the United States may in any case in
his discretion extend the period." (Section 5.)
About ten years after the allotment Tiebault having
continued to reside on the land and to enjoy the same
conformably to the statute, began proceedings in the court
of Thurston County, Nebraska, for the adoption as his
children of the two relators, who were also Winnebago
Indians, and a decree of adoption as prayed was entered.
When ten years after the adoption Tiebault died without
surviving issue, the adopted children, asserting rights as
his sole heirs, sought the possession of the land embraced
by the allotment and of some other land which had'also
been covered by an allotment made to a daughter of
Tiebault, who died before him without issue and which
land he had therefore inherited. This claim of heirship
was disputed by nephews and nieces of Tiebault claiming
to be his next of kin. The result was the commencement
of proceedings in the District Court of the United States
for the District of Nebraska on the part of the adopted
children to obtain a recognition of their right of heirship,
the nephews and nieces being among the parties defendant. Considerable testimony was taken, but no decree was
entered because by the act of May 8, 1906 (c. 2348, 34
Stat. 182) and the act of June 25, 1910 (chap. 431, section
1, 36 Stat. 855) it resulted that the District Court was

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

without power to proceed further, exclusive jurisdiction
over the subject having been conferred by the acts in
question upon the Secretary of the Interior. The pertinent provisions of the act last referred to are in the margin. 1
The theatre of the controversy was therefore by the assent of the parties and of the United States transferred
to the Interior Department where testimony was begun
before an examiner, and the Secretary of the Interior, in
June, 1913, entered an order in favor of the adopted
children, holding them to be the lawful heirs of Tiebault
and entitled under the statute to the ownership and enjoyment of the allotted lands.
The Secretary having been given authority both by
the sixth section of the act of 1906 and by the provisions
of the act of 1910 which we have quoted to reduce the
twenty-five year period, the recognized heirs applied for
an order terminating the trust period and for the issue
to them of a fee simple patent. This application was
opposed by the next of kin who had been parties to the
previous proceeding as to heirship and they also asked
1"That when any Indian to whom an allotment of land has been
made, or may hereafter be made, dies before the expiration of the trust
period and before the issuance of a fee simple patent, without having
made a will disposing of said allotment as hereinafter provided, the
Secretary of the Interior, upon notice and hearing, under such rules
as he may prescribe, shall ascertain the legal heirs of such decedent,
and his decision thereon shall be final and conclusive. If the Secretary
of the Interior decides the heir or heirs of such decedent competent to
manage their own affairs, he shall issue to such heir or heirs a patent
in fee for the allotment of such decedent; if he shall decide one or more
of the heirs to be incompetent, he may, in his discretion, cause such
lands to be sold: Provided, That if the Secretary of the Interior shall
find that the lands of the decedent are capable of partition to the advantage of the heirs, he may cause the shares of such as are competent,
upon their petition, to be set aside and patents in fee to be issued to
them therefor."

LANE v. MICKADIET.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to be permitted to re-open the controversy as to the
validity of the adoption and the heirship resulting from
it on the ground that as the result of newly discovered
evidence they desired to show that the Nebraska decree
of adoption and the previous administrative order had
been obtained by fraud. Under this request it would
seem that considerable testimony was taken, but it was
never acted upon because the recognized heirs, the relators,
disputed the authority of the Secretary to re-open the
controversy on the ground that the previous departmental
order recognizing them as heirs was not subject to be reopened or reviewed and in any event that the decree of
adoption of the Nebraska court was beyond the competency of the Secretary to review or set aside even upon
the charges of fraud which were made.. Without passing
upon the merits involved in the claim to re-open, or expressing any opinion concerning the conclusiveness of the
Nebraska decree, the Secretary granted the application
to re-open and ordered the issues thereon to stand for
future consideration. Thereupon the petition for mandamus was filed, to which a return was made alleging the
facts to be as we have stated them, resulting in the judgment of the court below awarding the mandamus which
is before us for review.
It is undoubted that the fee simple title to the land
embraced by the allotment had not passed from the United
States and that, as expressly stated in the granting act,
the land was held in trust by the United States for the
benefit of the allottees to await the expiration of the trust
period fixed by law when the duty on the part of the
United States of conveying the fee of the land would arise.
It is equally undoubted under these conditions that the
land was under the control in an administrative sense of
the Land Department for the purpose of carrying out the
act of Congress. As there is no dispute, and could be
none, concerning the general rule that courts have no

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

power to interfere with the performance by the Land
Department of the administrative duties devolving upon
it, however much they may when the functions of that
Department are at an end correct as between proper
parties errors of law committed in the administration of
the land laws by the Department, it must follow unless
it be that this case by some exception is taken out of the
general rule that there was no power in the court below
to control the action of the Secretary of the Interior and
reversal therefore must follow. United States v. Schurz,
102 U. S. 378, 396; Brown v. Hitchcock, 173 U. S. 473;
Knightv. Lane, 228 U. S. 6. But as the court below rested
its conclusion of power solely upon the existence of: an
assumed exception to the general rule, and as the correctness of that view is the sole ground relied upon to sustain
the judgment, that question is the single subject for consideration and we come to dispose of it.
The exception rests upon two considerations: (a) the
want of power of the Secretary to re-open or reconsider
the prior administrative order recognizing the relators
as the heirs of the deceased allottee,-an absence of
authority which it is deemed resulted from the provisions
of the act of 1910 which we have previously quoted in
the margin; and (b) the further absence of all authority
of the Secretary to disregard the decree of adoption of
the Nebraska court by collaterally questioning the same
in order to deprive of the status of adoption which that
decree it is insisted had conclusively fixed as against all
the world under the law of Nebraska.
(a) The first proceeds upon the theory that the provision of the act of 1910 to the effect that the decision of
the Secretary recognizing the heirs of a deceased allottee
"shall be final and conclusive" caused the prior order of
the Secretary recognizing the relators as heirs to completely exhaust his power and therefore to give a character
of absolute finality to such order even although the prop-

LANE v. MICKADIET.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

erty to which it related was yet in the administrative control of the Department because of the trust imposed by
the law of the United States until the expiration of the
statutory period. But we are of opinion that this is a
mistaken view. The words "final and conclusive" describing the power given to the Secretary must be taken
as conferring and not as limiting or destroying that authority. In other words they must be treated as absolutely
excluding the right to review in the courts, as had hitherto
been the case under the act of 1887, the question of fact
as to who were the heirs of an allottee, thereby causing
that question to become one within the final and conclusive competency of the administrative authority. As it
is obvious that the right to review on proper charges of
newly discovered evidence or fraud a previous administrative order while the property to which it related was
under administrative control, was of the very essence of
administrative authority (Michigan Land & Lumber Company v. Rust, 168 U. S. 589), it must follow that the
construction upheld would not only deprive the Secretary
of the final and conclusive authority which the statute
in its context contemplated he should have, but would
indeed render the administrative power conferred wholly
inadequate for the purpose intended by the statute. And
it must be further apparent that the inadequacy of authority which the proposition if accepted would bring
about could not be supplied, since it would come to pass
that although the property was yet in the control of the
United States to carry out the trust, there would be an
absence of all power both in the administrative and
judicial tribunals to correct an order once rendered, however complete might be the proof of the fraud which had
procured it.
But it is said that the purpose of the statute was to give
the recognized heir a status which would entitle him to
enjoy the allotted land and not to leave all his rights of

210

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

enjoyment open to changing decisions which might be
made during the long period of the trust term and thus
virtually destroy the right of property in favor of the
heir which it was the obvious purpose of the statute to
protect. But in last analysis this is a mere argument
seeking to destroy a lawful power by the suggestion of a
possible abuse. We say this because although it be conceded for the sake of the argument only that an exercise of
power which was plainly an abuse of discretion depriving
of the right which the statute plainly gave would be subject
to correction by the courts, such concession would be here
without influence sinc? there is no basis whatever upon
which to rest an assumption of abuse of discretion.
(b) So far as the Nebraska decree is concerned the mistake upQn which the proposition proceeds is obvious since,
conceding the premise upon which it must rest to be well
founded, it affords no ground for preventing by judicial
action the exercise by the Secretary of his power to determine the legal heirs and in doing so to ascertain the existence of the Nebraska judgment, the jurisdiction ratione
materiw of the court by which it was rendered and the
legal effect which it was entitled to receive under the law
of Nebraska.
There was a suggestion in argument, which it was conceded was not made in the courts below, of an absolute
want of jurisdiction upon the theory that as the title of
the allotted property was yet in the United States for the
purposes of the trust, there could in any event be no jurisdiction over the cause, since in substance and effect it was
a suit against the United States. As, however, the considerations involved in this proposition were absolutely
coincident with those required to be taken into view in
order to determine the power of the Secretary, we have
not deemed it necessary to specially consider the subject.
It follows from what we have said that the court below
wds without jurisdiction to control the conduct of the

MINN. & ST. L'OUIS'-R. R. v. BOMBOLIS.
241 U. S.

Syllabus.

Secretary concerning a matter within the administrative
authority of that officer and therefore that the mandamus
was wrongfully allowed and the judgment awarding it must
be and it is reversed and the case remanded with directions
to affirm the judgment of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia dismissing the petition for a writ of
mandamus.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the consideration and decision of this case.

MINNEAPOLIS & ST. LOUIS RAILROAD COMPANY v. BOMBOLIS, ADMINISTRATOR OF
NANOS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
MINNESOTA.
No. 478. Argued April 19, 20, 1916.-Decided May 22, 1916.
The Seventh Amendment exacts a trial by jury according to the course
of the common law, that is, by a unanimous verdict.
The first ten Amendments are not concerned with state action and
deal only with Federal action.
The Seventh Amendment applies only to proceedings in courts of the
United States; it does not in any manner govern or regulate trials
by jury in state courts, nor does it apply to an action brought in the
state court under the Federal Employers' Liability Act.
A verdict in a state court in an action under the Employers' Liability
Act, which is not unanimous, but which is legal under the law of the
State, is not illegal as violating the Seventh Amendment.
While a state court may enforce a right created by a Federal statute,

