OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

241 U. S.

elude that the court erred in directing a verdict on the
second count.
The judgment is reversed and the cause is remanded

for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

SEABOARD AIR LINE RAILWAY v. RENN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF"NORTH
CAROLINA.

No. 773.

Argued April 4, 1916.-Decided May 22, 1916.

Whether the state court, in permitting an amendment to the complaint
in an action under the Employers' Liability Act, disregarded the
provision in ยง 6 limiting the time to commence actions under the
Act, is a Federal question, although the allowance of the amendment otherwise might rest in the discretion of the court and be a
matter of local procedure.
-An amendment which merely expands or amplifies what was alleged
in support of the cause of action asserted in the' original complaint
relates back to the commencement of the action and is not affected
by the intervening lapse of time.
An amendment which introduces a new or different cause of action is
the equivalent of a new suit which would be barred by ยง 6 if made
more than two years after the cause of action arose.
Although the original complaint in this case may not have distinctly
shown that the cause of action arose under the Employers' Liability Act still as it did not allege that the cause of action arose under
the law of the State where it occurred, and did allege that defendant
was engaged in operating its railroad in that and other States, held
that an amendment that plaintiff's employment, and defendant's
engagement were both in interstate commerce at the time of the

SEABOARD AIR LINE v. RENN.'
241 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

injury did not amount to the statement of a new cause of action,
but merely amplified or expanded that already stated and related
back to the commencement of the suit.
Both courts below having concurred against defendant's request for
instruction that there was no evidence of actionable negligence and
there being no clear error this court will not disturb such conclusions.
Where the charge as a whole was fair,- objections made at the time,
but which did not specifically draw the attention of the trial court
to inaccuracies in portions of the charge respecting the measure of
damages, cannot, where not dealt with by the appellate court, be
pressed in this court.
86 S. E. Rep. 964, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve, the validity of a verdict and
judgment -for damages for personal injuries in an action
under the Employers' Liability Act,. are stated in the
opinion.

Mr. Murray Allen for plaintiff in error:
Plaintiff was at the time of his injury employed in
interstate commerce and his complaint states a cause of
action under the statute of North Carolina defining the
liability of a railroad to its employ~s, and also under the
common law.
The complaint does not state a cause of action under
the Federal statute.
That the carrier was engaged in interstate commerce
and the employ6 was employed in such commerce at the
time of the injury are essential allegations.
The court will look only to pleadings to determine the
basis of plaintiff's cause of action.
The cause of action created by the Federal statute is
separate and distinct from the cause arising under the
common law.
The plaintiff had the selection of the basis of his
action.
The court had no power to allow an amendment stating
for the first time a cause of action under the Federal act

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

after the expiration of the period fixed by the act for the
commencement of such action.
The amendment allowed by the court states a new
cause of action, which is barred by the expiration of the
period of limitation fixed by the act creating the right of
action.
State courts accept Union Pacific R. R. v. Wyler, 158
U. S. 285, as controlling and refuse to permit amendments
stating a cause of action under the Federal act after the
expiration of two years.
The points of difference in an action based upon the
common law and the statute of North Carolina and an
action based upon the Federal Employers' Liability Act
are material.
The facts showing the injury sustained by plaintiff do
not of themselves constitute a cause of action.
There is not sufficient evidence of negligence in this
case to be submitted to the jury.
Plaintiff assumed the risk of injury from slipping on
ice around the water tank.
Mr. Robert N. Simms and Mr. Win. C. Douglass, with
whom Mr. Clyde A. Douglass was on the brief, 'for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE VAN

DEVANTER

delivered the opinion

of the court.
This was an action by an employs of a railroad company to recover from the latter for personal injuries suffered through its negligence. The plaintiff had a verdict
and judgment under the Employers' Liability Act of
Congress, c. 149, 35 Stat. 65; c. 143, 36 Stat. 291, the
judgment was affirmed, 86 S. E. Rep. 964, and the defendant brings the case here.
The original complaint was exceedingly brief and did

SEABOARD AIR LINE v. RENN.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

not sufficiently allege that at the time of the injury the
defendant was engaged and the plaintiff employed in
interstate commerce. During the trial the defendant
sought some advantage from this and the court, over the
defendant's objection, permitted the complaint to be
so amended as to state distinctly the defendant's engagement and the plaintiff's employment in such commerce.
Both parties conceded that what was alleged in the amendment was true in fact and conformed to the proofs, and
that point has since been treated as settled. The defendant's objection was that the original complaint did
not state a cause of action under the act of Congress,
that with the amendment the complaint would state a
new cause of action under that act, and that, as more
than two years had elapsed since the right of action accrued, the amendment could not be made the medium of
introducing this new cause of action consistently with
the provision in ยง 6 that "no action shall be maintained
under this act unless commenced within two years from
'the day.the cause of action accrued." Whether in what
was done this restriction was in effect disregarded is a
Federal question and subject to reexamination here, however much the allowance of the amendment otherwise
might have rested in discretion or been a matter of local
procedure. Atlantic Coast Line v. Burnette, 239 U. S.
199. If the amendment mereIy expanded or amplified
what was alleged in support of the cause of action already
asserted, it related back to the commencement of the
action and was not affected by the intervening lapse of
time. Texas and Pacific Ry. v. Cox, 145 U. S. 593, 603604; Atlantic and Pacific R. R. v. Laird, 164 U. S. 393;
Hutchinsonv: Otis, 190 U. S. 552, 555; Missouri,Kansas &
Texas Ry. v. Wulf, 226 U. S. 570, 576; Crotty v. Chicago
Great Western Ry;, 95 C. C. A. 61; S. C., 169 Fed. Rep. 593.
But if it introduced a new or different cause of action,
it was the equivalent of a new suit, as to which the running

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

of the limitation was not theretofore arrested. Sicard v.
Davis, 6 Pet. 124, 140; Union Pacific Ry. v. Wyler, 158
U. S. 285; United States v. Dalcour, 203 U. S. 408, 423.
The original complaint set forth that the defendant was
operating a line of railroad in Virginia, North Carolina
and elsewhere, that the plaintiff was in its employ, that
when he was injured he was in the line of duty and was
proceeding to get aboard one of the defendant's trains,
and that the injury was sustained at Cochran, Virginia,
through the defendant's negligence in permitting a part
of its right of way at that place to get and remain in a
dangerous condition. Of course, the right of action could
not arise under the laws of North Carolina when the causal
negligence and the injury occurred inVirginia; and the
absence of any mention of the laws of the latter State
was at least consistent with their inapplicability. Besides,
the allegation that the defendant was operating a railroad
in States other than Virginia was superfluous if the right
of action arose under the laws of that State, and was
pertinent only if it arose in interstate commerce, and
therefore under thi act of Congress. In these circumstances, while the question is not free from difficulty,
we cannot say that the court erred in treating the original
complaint as pointing, although only imperfectly, to a
cause of action under the law of Congress. And this
being so, it must be taken that the amendment merely
expanded or amplified what was alleged in support -of
that cause of action and related back to the commencement of the suit, which was before the limitation had
expired.
Error is assigned upon a refusal to instruct the jury,
as matter of law, that there was no evidence of actionable
negligence on the part of the defendant, and that the
evidence conclusively established an assumption by the
plaintiff of the risk resulting in his injury. Both courts,
trial and appellate, held against the defendant upon these

BANKERS TRUST CO. v. TEX. & PAC. RY.
241 U.'S.

295

Opinion of the Court.

points. They involve an appreciation of all the evidence
and the inferences which admissibly might be drawn
therefrom; and it suffices to say that we find no such_
clear or certain error as would justify disturbing the concurring conclusions of the two courts upon these questions. Great Northern Ry. v. Knapp, 240 U. S. 464; Baugham v. New York &c. Ry. (decided this day, ante, p. 237).
Complaint also is made of the instructions given upon
the measure of damages. The criticism is directed against
mere fragments of this part of the charge, and the objections made at the time were not such as were calculated
to draw the trial court's attention to the particular complaint now urged. The inaccuracies were not grave and
the charge as a whole was calculated to give the jury a
fair understanding of the subject. The defendant therefore is not in a position to press the complaint, especially
as it was not dealt with in the opinion of the appellate
court. See Magniac v. Thompson, 7 Pet. 348, 390; McDermott v. Severe, 202 U. S. 600, 610; Illinois Central
R. R. v. Skaggs, 240 U. S. 66.
Judgment affirmed.

BANKERS TRUST COMPANY v. TEXAS AND
PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 889.

Argued April 12, 13, 1916.-Decided May 22, 1916.

In a suit brought by a corporation existing under the laws of New York
and therefore a citizen of that State, against the Texas & Pacific
Railway Company, incorporated and existing under an act of Congress and certain supplemental and amendatory acts, held that:
The provision in ยง 1 of the act of 1871 under which the Texas & Pacific

