624

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

241 U. S.

representations upon which they were based. Beyond
doubt an applicant for insurance should exercise toward
the company the same good faith which may be rightly
demanded of it. The relationship demands fair dealing
by both parties. New York Life Ins. Co. v. Fletcher, 117
U. S. 519, 529, 533, 534; Assurance Co. v. Building Association, 183 U. S. 308, 361; 'U. S. Life Ins. Co. v. Smith,
92 Fed. Rep. 503.
Considered with proper understanding of the law, there
is no evidence to support a verdict against petitioner and
the trial court should have directed one in its favor.
Judgment of the Circuit Court of App6als is reversed
and the cause remanded to the United States District
Court, Northern District of Florida, for further proceedings in accordance With this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY dissents.

HOLMES v. CONWAY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
No. 335. Argued May 1, 1916.-Dcided June 12, 1916.
The due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment does not control mere forms of procedure in state courts or regulate practice
therein.
All the requirements of the due process provision of the Fourteenth
Amendment are complied with, provided the person condemned has
sufficient notice and is afforded adequate opportunity to defend.
An attorney having obtained certain funds from the clerk of the court,
the court in a summary proceeding directed him, after a full hearing
to restore the same; on appeal this order was affirmed, and on re-

HOLMES v. CONWAY.
241 U.S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

hearing the attorney set up that he had been denied due process of
law by not being given adequate notice or a fair opportunity to defend. Held that, asthe record does not sustain his contention in
those respects, this court cannot say that he has been deprived of a
Federal right.
92 Kansas, 787; 93 I& 246, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the validity under the due
process provision of the Fourteenth Amendment of a
judgment of a state court, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Leonard S. Ferry, with whom Mr. Thomias F.
Doran and Mr. John S. Dean were on the brief, for the
plaintiff in error:
The Supreme Court of Kansas affirmed the judgment
of the District Court on the ground that summary proceedings may be employed in enforcing claims against
attorneys for acts done in a pirofessional capacity. Summary proceedings must be based upon notice, and the
party must be apprised of the nature and purpose of the
proceedings, and have an opportunity to be heard. 37
Cyc. 530; 4 Cyc. 975; In re Wall, 107 U. S. 265; Jefferie v.
Laurie, 23 Fed. Re p. 786; Lynde v. Lynde, 58 L. R. A.
471; Galpin v. Page, 18 Wall. 368; Union Bldg. Ass'n
v. Soderquist, 87 N. W. Rep. (Ia.) 432; Simon v. Croft,
182 U. S. 427; Rees v. Watertown, 19 Wall. 1Q7, 122;
Iowa Central Ry. v. Iowa, 160 U. S. 389; Davis v. Board
of Commissioners, 65 Minnesota, 310; Kuntz v. Sumpton, 2 L. R. A. (Ind.) 655; Davidson v. New Orleans, 96
U. S. 97; 3 Words & Phrases, pp. 2244, 2245; Hooker v.
Los Angeles, 188 U. S.318.
The judgment affirmed by the Supreme Court of Kansas was rendered against plaintiff in error without due
process of law, as required by the Fourteenth Amendment, as no notice was given him, and no adequate Opportunity to defend was afforded him. "Louis. & - S~h.
R. R. v,Schmidt, 177 U. S.230; Simon v. Croft, 182 U, S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S..

427; Davis v. Board of Comm., 65 Minnesota, 310; Kuntz
v. Sumpton, 2 L. R. A. 655; Hooker v. Los Angeles, 188
U. S. 318.
A man's business, occupation, profession, or calling is
his property, and is protected and guaranteed by the Constitution of the United States. Slaughter-Houe Cases,
16 Wall. 36; Consolidated Steel Co. v. Murray, 80 Fed.
Rep. 821; Ex parte Burr, 9 Wheat. 922.
There was no appearance for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDs delivered the opinion of
the court.
Plaintiff in error, Holmes, a lawyer practicing before
the courts of Kansas, maintains that judgment has been
rendered against him, in a cause where. he appeared as
counsel, without notice or opportunity to defend, contrary
to inhibitions of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Acting for one Hess, he instituted proceedings against
defendant in error in the District Court, Woodson County,
Kansas, seeking personal judgment on a note and foreclosure of mortgage on real estate. Judgment was rendered November 16, 1910, for $2,612.00; and the sheriff
sold the land January 19, 1911, to Hess for $1,700.00,
subject to redemption within eighteen months. An assignment prepared by Holmes immediately transferred
the certificate of purchase to C. F. Harder, but no public
record of this transaction was made until August 24,
1912.
An insured building on the mortgaged property burned
shortly before sheriff's sale and, upon motion presented by
Holmes, the court made an order "restraining and enjoining the said defendant Conway from in any manner
disposing of said insurance policies upon the buildings
on said mortgaged premises, or disposing of any moneys

HOLMES v. CONWAY.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

collected." Questions arose concerning validity of policies
and following an agreement between Holmes and Hogueland, attorney-for Conway, a compromise was effected
under which the companies paid $1,075.00-$500.00,
February-, 1911, and $575.00, March-, 1911. Conway
and his attorney claimed that under the agreement this
sum was to be applied towards redeeming the land.
Holmes claimed it was to go towards discharging the
personal judgment.
On February 24, 1911, $500.00 of the insurance money
was paid into court by Hogueland. The clerk gave a
receipt reciting, "the same being in part payment of the
redemption in the above entitled cause." On the next
day this sum was withdrawn by Holmes and, as he claims,
remitted to Hess. On March 31, 1911, Hogueland delivered a draft for remainder of insurance money to
Holmes, who claims that he remitted proceeds to Hess.
Conway paid into court $738.03, July 15, 1912, which,
with the $1,075.00 above referred to, made up amount
necessary to redeem property sold by sheriff, and the
clerk gave him a redemption receipt.
Exactly when Holmes began to represent Harder is not
clear-certainly it was not later than June 1, 1911. In
August, 1912, Holmes as counsel entered a motion for an
order directing the sheriff to convey to Harder the land
theretofore sold. Conway resisted, claiming that by
paying the necessary sum he had redeemed the property.
Solution of the issue presented depended upon professional
conduct of Holmes, and his affidavits were put in evidence.
The motion was denied; but a rehearing was granted and
took place in February, 1913. Additional proofs, including two more of his own affidavits, were offered by Holmes,
then present in court, and taken under consideration.
April 30, 1913, Holmes still being present, the court
denied motion for instruction to sheriff and further
"ordered, adjudged and decreed, that the plaintiff A. E.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

Hess and S. C. Holmes, his attorney of record, within
thirty days from this date, . . . return to and deposit in the office of the clerk of this court, the sum of One
Thousand and Seventy-five ($1,075.00) Dollars, together
with interest .
down to the day such sum is paid
into the office of the clerk of this court ..
. to be
used in the redemption and cancellation of certificate of
purchase issued by the sheriff of Woodson County, Kansas, to A. E. Hess, plaintiff herein."
Without suggesting to the trial court that he had been
surprised or prejudiced because no formal notice had been
served upon him or that he wished the order set aside or
desired to present additional proof or take any further
action whatsoever, and when the thirty days were a1out
to expire, Holmes entered appeals to the Supreme Court
of the State for himself and Harder, and on very general
assignments of errors, making no mention of Federal right,
the controversy was there again presented and considered
upon its merits.
Among other things the Supreme Court said (92 Kansas,
787):
"On the eve of the sheriff's sale Holmes and Hogueland,
as attorneys for their respective clients, agreed that the
insurance money should be applied to the redemption of
the land. Hess purchased at the sheriff's sale subject to
this condition, and when he assigned the certificate of
purchase he and Holmes knew that the insurance money
would go to redeem the land and not to satisfy the excess
judgment. This is the turning point in the case. Mr.
Holmes claims that he understood the agreement with Mr.
Hogueland differently. After carefully considering all the
strong arguments for his view this court, as already stated,
feels that the trial court was best able to determine the
matter. The result is that Holmes could draw the first
payment of insurance money from the clerk of the court,
who had received and receipted for it for redemption

HOLMES v. CONWAY.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

purposes, for the benefit of no one but the holder of the
certificate of purchase, who at that time was Harder; and
Holmes received the proceeds of the draft for the second
installment of insurance money for the benefit of Harder.
Soon-afterwards Holmes is found in court engaged in the
protection of Harder's interests as a holder of the certificate of purchase. Holmes had complete knowledge of
all the facts relating to the insurance money. Harder's
son and agent, F. H. Harder, was informed that Holmes
had received $1075 to apply in redemption of the premises,
and Harder himself is non-committal on the subject of his
knowledge.
"On February 24, 1911, Conway through his attorney
paid to the clerk of the district court the sum of $500 as
redemption money and took the clerk's receipt accordingly. Holmes could rightfully withdraw this money for
no purpose unless to pay it to Harder. The draft for $575
which he cashed was redemption money also, and if not
paid to Harder ought to be in the hands of the clerk. It is
conceded that Harder received none of the money. The
order therefore is a summary one made by the court in a
pending proceeding to secure restoration to the treasury
of the court of moneys arising from the litigation, which
the attorney has diverted, p. 796.
"In the present case the court was acting in its own behalf to secure the return of money belonging in its own
custody. By the motion directed against the sheriff filed
for his client, Harder, the attorney himself instituted the
investigation of his professional conduct. That was the
only substantial issue in the case, and he was fully heard,
both as a witness and as an attorney, in justification of
his course. The evidence which justifies the denial of an
order against the sheriff justifies the order against him. '
P. 797.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

A petition for rehearing was presented and considered
by the Supreme Court. Therein for the first time Holmes
set up a claim under the Fourteenth Amendment. In its
opinion denying application, the court said (93 Kansas,
246, 255):
"Holmes still insists that the order upon him to restore
to the clerk of the court the redemption money which
came into his possession was irregular for informality of
procedure. The form of procedure in summary disciplinary proceedings is not controlling so long as the essentials of fair notice and opportunity to be heard are present.
In this case Harder's right to a deed depended upon what
his attorney's professional conduct had been. That was
the primary issue tendered by the motion to require the
sheriff to make a deed and the attorney himself filed the
motion and brought on the investigation. A trial was had
in which all the facts were developed, Holmes and Hogueland gave their versions of the agreement with respect to
the application of the insurance money. The money was
traced, step by step, from the insurance company through
Holmes to Hess. Holmes was necessarily compelled to
describe and to defend his conduct and did so by his own
testimony and by other evidence which he adduced. The
result was that in legal effect he stood before the court
as one of its officers who had diverted from its treasury
funds arising from the litigation. Then the attorney
asked for another hearing which was granted. While on
the face of the record he appeared as the attorney for
Harder, the substance of the issue still was what the
character of his professional conduct had been. The
nature of the charge against him had been fully disclosed
at the first trial. It appeared in detail and in writing in
the affidavits filed in the case. It was that charge which
he knew he must meet at the second trial, which he had
secured. He had from August of one year to February of
the next year in which to prepare. To say that he did not

HOLMES v. CONWAY.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

make due preparation would be to impute to him unfaithfulness to Harder. He had command of the case, took
such testimony from his former client, Hess, as he desired,
and presented such other evidence as he desired, including
additional affidavits of his own. At the final trial he was
given full opportunity to defend in his own way and to an
extent satisfactory to himself. Consequently every requirement of due process of law has been satisfied and the
court was not called upon to go through the ceremoniousperformance of instituting and prosecuting another proceeding, for the sake of stating the charges, giving notice,
and having a hearing, before entering the disciplinary
order."
The sole question presented for our determination is
whether plaintiff in error has been- deprived of a Federal
right.
Considering Holmes' position as an officer of the court
and patient hearings accorded him, his own testimony and
duty to offer in evidence whatever was obtainable and
material, his actual presence at every stage of the proceedings, his failure to suggest surprise or desire for any
further hearing, the inquiry touching his conduct pending
for many' months, his perfect acquaintance with all the
unusual circumstances including his own liability and
looking at the substance and not mere form of things, we
are unable to say that he has been deprived of adequate
notice or fair opportunity to defend and thereby denied
due process of law. The cause undoubtedly presents
difficulties not to be ignored; and our conclusion is restricted to the peculiar circumstances before us.
In Louis. & Nash. R. R. v. Schmidt, 177 U. S. 230, 236,
the principles applicable here are announced and applied.
"It is no longer open to contention that the due process
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution
of the United States does not control mere forms of procedure in state courts or regulate practice therein. All its

632

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

requirements are complied with, provided in the proceedings which ae claimed not to have been due process
of law the person condemned has had sufficient notice and
adequate opportunity has been afforded him to defend."
Affirmed.
MR. JusncE PiNiY dissents.

