OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Statement of the Case.

241 U. S.

ROSENBERGER v. PACIFIC EXPRESS COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
No. 249. Argued March 8, 19i6.-Decided April 24, 1916.
Speaking generally the States are without power to directly burden
an interstate shipment until after its arrival and delivery and sale
in original package; and this rule applies to the movement of intoxicating liquor as to other commodities.
The Wilson Act only modifies this rule as to shipment of intoxicating
liquors so as to bring them under state control after delivery, but
before sale, in the original package.
The power to make interstate commerce shipments C. 0. D. is incidental to right to make the shipment, and an attempt by the State
to prohibit contracts to that effect or prevent fulfillment thereof is,
as a burden upon, and an interference with, interstate commerce,
repugnant to the Federal Constitution.
The interstate commerce which is subject to the control of Congress
embraces the widest freedom including the right to make all contracts having a proper relation to the subject.
The power of the State to control interstate C. 0. D. shipments prior
to the enactment of the United States Penal Code cannot be deduced from the enactment of ยง 239 of that Code prohibiting them.
Since the enactment, and by virtue of the Wilson Act and the remedial
authority thereby conferred by Congress on the States to regulate
sales of liquor after arrival in the State and before sale in the original
packages, a State has power to prevent solicitation of orders for
intoxicating liquors to be shipped from other States. Delamater v.
South Dakota, 205 U. S. 93.
The statute of 1907 of Texas imposing special licenses on Express
Companies maintaining offices for C. 0. D. shipments of intoxicating liquors is an unconstitutional burden on and interference with
interstate commerce and does not justify an Express Company
accepting such a shipment from refusing to deliver the same; and in
this case held that such refusal amounted to conversion of the goods.
THE facts, which involve the constitutionality under
the commerce clause of the Federal Constitution of the

ROSENBERGER v. PACIFIC EXPRESS CO.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

statute of the State of Texas imposing licenses on places of
business of Express Companies where intoxicating liquors
are delivered C. 0. D., are stated in the opinion.
Mr. J. J. Vineyard and Mr. A. F. Smtth, with whom
Mr. FrankF.,Rozzelle was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. I. N. Watson, with whom Mr. J. L. Minnis was
on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the

court.
On the taking effect in Texas on the twelfth day of February, 1907, of a law imposing a state license tax of $5,000
annually on each place of business or agency of every
express company where intoxicating liquors were delivered
and the price collected on C. 0. D. shipments, and by
which law one-half of the amount of the state license was
in addition authorized to be imposed by every county or
municipality, the Express Company, the defendant in
error, discontinued at all its agencies in Texas all such
business. As a result the Company sent back to Kansas
City, Missouri, the packages of intoxicating liquor which
it had received under C. 0. D. shipments made to various
places in Texas from Kansas City by Rosenberger, the
plaintiff in error, and tendered them to him conditioned on
his payment of the return carriage charges. Rosenberger
refused to accept the offer and brought this suit to recover
the value of the merchandise on the ground that the failure
to carry out the shipments was a conversion. The trial
court holding the Texas act was repugnant to the commerce clause of the Constitution of the United States
and afforded no justification to the Express Company
for refusing to carry out the shipments, awarded the relief
sought. And the object of this writ of error is to obtain a
reversal of a final judgment of the court below reversing

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

the trial court and rejecting the claim on the ground that
the Texas license law was not repugnant to the commerce
clause and afforded ample authority to the Express Company for refusing to complete the interstate shipments in
question. 258 Missouri, 97.
Passing minor contentions whose want of merit will be
hereafter demonstrated, it is clear that the issue is this:
Was the state license law if applied to C. 0. D. interstate
commerce shipments repugnant to the commerce clause of
the Constitution? It is certain that this question, in view
of the date of the law and of the shipments involved, must
be determined in the light of the operation of the commerce clause as affected by the power conferred upon the
States by what is usually known as the Wilson Law (Act of
August 8, 1890, c. 728, 26 Stat. 313), and wholly unaffected by ยง 239 of the Penal Code enacted by Congress
March 4, 1909, prohibiting the shipment of intoxicating
liquors under C. 0. D. contracts, and also without reference to the act of Congress known as the Webb-Kenyon
Law of March 1, 1913 (c. 90, 37 Stat. 699).
Thus limited, as it is not controverted and indeed is indisputable that the provisions of the statute placed a direct
burden on the shipments with which it dealt and in fact
were prohibitive of such shipments, it follows that error
was committed in holding that the statute was not repugnant to the Constitution of the United States in so far
as it applied to interstate C. 0. D. shipments for the following reasons: (a) Because it is settled from the beginning
and too elementary to require anything but statement
that speaking generally the States are without power to
directly burden interstate commerce and that commodities
moving in such commerce only become subject to the control of the States or to the power on thbir part to directly
burden after the termination of the interstate movement,
that is, after the arrival and delivery of the commodities
and their sale in the original packages, and that this rule is

ROSENBERGER v. PACIFIC*EXPRESS CO.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

as applicable to the movement of intoxicating liquors as to
any other cpmn.odities. (b) Because the Wilson Act only
modifies 'these controlling rules by .causing interstate
commerce shipments of intoxicating liquors to come under
state control at an earlier date than they otherwise would,
that is, after delivery but before sale in the original packages. (c) Because the power in interstate commerce
shipments to make C. 0. D. agreements, that is, agreements on delivery of the commodity shipped to collect
and remit the price, is incidental to the right to make
such shipments and the commodities when so shipped do
not come under the authority of the State to which the
commodities are shipped under such agreements until
arrival and delivery, and therefore any attempt on the
part of the State to directly burden or prohibit such contracts or prevent the fulfillment of the same necessarily
comes within the general rule and is repugnant to the
Constitution of the United States.
These propositions in substance have been by necessary
implication or by direct decision so authoritatively and
repeatedly determined as shown by the cases cited in the
margin,' that there is no necessity for going further. But
in view of the fact that the court below held the statute to
be not repugnant to the commerce clause not, because it
overlooked the rulings of this court referred to but because
it considered them distinguishable or inapposite to this
case for reasons deemed by it to be conclusive, there being
some difference of opinion on the subject in the court
below, we briefly refer to those reasons.
3Leisy v. Hardin,135 U. S. 100; In re Rahrer, 140 U. S. 545; Rhodes
v. Iowa, 170.U. S. 412; Vance v. W. A. Vandercook Co., 170 U. S. 438;
Heyman v. Southern Railway, 203 U. S. 270; Adams Express Co. v.
Kentucky, 214 U. S. 218; Louisville & Nashville R. R. v. Cook Brewing Co., 223 U. S. 70; Kirmeyer v. Kansas, 236 U. S. 568; 'Rossi v.
Pennsylvania, 238 U. S. 62; American Express Co. v. Iotqa, 196 U. S.

133; Adams Express Co. v. Kentucky, 206 U. S. 129.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

It was said that the shipment of commodities contains
two elements, one the obligation arising from the duty of
the carrier to receive and carry without express contract,
and the other such obligation as arises from contracts made
concerning the shipment not embraced in the duty which
rested by law upon the carrier in the absence of contract,
the latter being illustrated by C. 0. D. contracts. These
two classes of obligations, it was pointed out, arising from
different sources, were controlled by a consideration of
the source whence they sprang, the one, the duty independent of contract, being commerce, and the other, the duty
depending upon express contract in a sense independent
of commerce, being governed by the law controlling contracts; that is to say, the one being controlled by the commerce clause and the other by the law of the State. And
from these generalizations it was concluded that however
complete and efficacious was the control of the Constitution of the United States over the obligation resulting from
shipments in the proper sense, it was clear that the power
of the State was complete over the other class of obligations, those arising from distinct contracts, and hence the
act imposing the burden on the contract to collect on
delivery did not reach over into the domain of shipment,
was independent of the same, and therefore was not repugnant to the commerce clause. But we think it is a
sufficient answer to say that the reasoning referred to
rests upon a misconception of the elementary notion of
interstate commerce as inculcated and upheld from the beginning and as enforced in a line of decisions of this court
beginning with the very birth of the Constitution and
which in its fundamental aspect has undergone no change
or suffered no deviation: that is, that the interstate commerce which is subject to the control of Congress embraces
the widest freedom, including as a matter of course the
right to make all contracts having a proper relation to
the subject. Indeed, it must be at once apparent that if

ROSENBERGER v. PACIFIC EXPRESS CO.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the reasoning we are considering were to be entertained,
the plenary power of Congress to legislate as to interstate
commerce would be at an end and the limitations preventing state legislation directly burdening interstate
commerce would no longer obtain and the freedom of interstate commerce which has been enjoyed by all the States
would disappear. But to state these general considerations is indeed superfluous since in one of the previous
cases which we have cited (American Express Co. v. Iowa,
196 U. S. 133, 143, 144) substantially the identical contention which we have just disposed of was relied upon
and its unsoundness was expressly pointed out and the
destructive consequences which would arise from its
adoption stated.
The minor contentions to which we previously referred
are these:
1. That although it be that ยง 239 of the Penal Code has
no retroactive operation, it should be used as an instrument of interpretation from which to deduce the conclusion that the power of a State to prohibit shipments of
intoxicating liquors in interstate commerce under C. 0. D.
contracts existed at the time here in question. But this
by indirection simply seeks to cause the Act of Congress
to retroactively apply by reasoning which if acceded to
would require it to be said that all the previous decisions
of this court dealing with the subject before the Penal
Code was enacted were wrong and that in addition the
enactment of ยง 239 was wholly unnecessary.
2. That even although there was a wrongful refusal of
the Express Company to carry out the shipments its doing
so was a mere violation of contract, giving a right to sue
in damages but not for conversion. We see nothing in
the record to indicate that this contention was urged in
the trial court or in the court below. But passing this
consideration, in view of our previous action rejecting a
motion to dismiss, the question is foreclosed. But again

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

even if this be put out of view, the proposition is without
merit under the controlling state law. Rice v. Indianapolis
& St. Louis R. R., 3 Mo. App. 27; Loeffler v. Keokuk Packet
Co., 7 Mo. App. 185; Danciger Bros. v. American Express
Co., 172 Mo. App. 391.
3. That this case is taken out of the settled rule to
which we have referred and is controlled by the ruling in
Delamater v. South Dakota, 205 U. S. 93. But the proposition presupposes that the decision in that case overruled the many decisions sustaining the rule without the
slightest indication of a purpose to do so. It proceeds
upon an obvious misconception of the Delamater Case
which instead of disregarding the construction put upon
the Wilson Act and the many cases dealing with the subject, was on the contrary but an application in a new form
of the additional power which that act gave. In other
words the case but held that inasmuch as Congress by
virtue of its regulating authority had caused shipments
of intoxicating liquors in interstate commerce to become
subject to state authority after arrival and before sale in
the original packages, the exertion by the State of its
authority to prevent the carrying on in the State of the
business of soliciting purchases of liquor to be shipped
from other States was lawful as a mere exertion of police
power not constituting a direct burden upon interstate
commerce, since such a regulation was within the scope
of the remedial authority conferred by Congress by virtue
of the Wilson Act.
And the contention just stated leads to a reference to
suggestions which we deem to be wholly irrelevant to the
issue for decision made both in the opinion of the court
below and in the argument at bar concerning possible
abuses committed as the result of C. 0. D. shipments of
intoxicating liquors into States where the use of such
liquor is prohibited, such as the unreasonable detention
of such liquors before delivery, the ultimate delivery to a

MENASHA CO. v. CHICAGO & NORTHERN RY.
241 U. S.

55

Syllabus.

person who had not ordered the same, the transfer to
others by the ostensible person to whom the shipment
was seemingly made, etc., etc. We say irrelevant suggestions because we are considering here not whether a
state statute enacting reasonable regulations to prevent
abuses under C. 0. D. shipments would be a direct burden
upon interstate commerce, but are only called upon to
determine whether a statute is repugnant to the commerce
clause which expressly asserts the power of the State to
forbid all C. 0. D. interstate commerce shipments of
intoxicating liquors without reference to abuse of any
kind or nature in the manner in which said contracts are
carried out.
It follows from what we have said that the court below
erred and that its judgment -must be reversed and the
case remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent
with this opinion.
And it is so ordered.

MENASHA PAPER COMPANY v. CHICAGO
NORTHWESTERN RAILWAY COMPANY.

&

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
WISCONSIN.

No. 696.

Argued April 3, 1916.-Decided April 24, 1916.

The Hepburn Act of 1906 amending the Act to Regulate Commerce
requires railroad companies to provide and furnish transportation
to shippers on reasonable request therefor.
Where shippers, who are under contract to deliver interstate shipments in carload lots, call upon an interstate carrier for cars, the
carrier is bound to furnish them, and the consignee cannot refuse
delivery and by notifying the carrier of its intention to do so, relieve
itself of demurrage charges according to the published tariff.

