OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

241 U.-S.

CHESAPEAKE & OHIO RAILWAY COMPANY v.
PROFFITT.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 273.

Argued March 10, 1916.-Decided June 5, 1916.

The danger to a brakeman at work in switching at one end of a" manifest " train, arising from switching operations conducted by another
crew at the other end, is not among the ordinary risks of a brakeman's employment; and, in the absence of notice or knowledge, such
brakeman cannot be held to have assumed it.
To subject an employee without warning to unusual danger, not normally incident to the employment, is itself an act of negligence.
While an employee assumes risks and dangers ordinarily incident to
the employment, so far as they are not attributable to the negligence
of the employer or those for whom the latter is responsible, the employee has a right to assume that the employer has exercised proper
care to provide a safe place and method of, work.
An employee is not to be regarded as having assumed a risk attributable to the employer's negligence until he becomes aware of it,
unless it is so plainly observable that he. must be presumed to have
knowledge of it.
An employee is not obliged to exercise care to discover dangers resulting
from the employer's negligence and which are not ordinarily incident
to the employment.
Even if an employee knows and assumes the risk of an inherently dangerous method of work, he does not assume the increased risk attributable, not to such method, but to negligence in pursuing it.
In the absence of knowjedge of a custom of the employer in making
up trains, a brakeman is not bound by such a custom, unless it is
one that a reasonably careful employer would adopt.
A request to charge that the jury find for defendant if the usual method
of doing work was pursued irrespective of the question of negligence
of other employees was, in this case, properly modified by the court
to the effect that the method adopted must be one that reasonably
prudent men would adopt and that the injured employee only assumed the risks reasonably and usually incident to such method.
218 Fed. Rep. 23, affirmed.

CHES. & OHIO RY. v. PROFFITT.
241 U. 8.

Opinion of the Court.

THE facts, which involve the validity of a judgment for
damages for personal injuries in an action under the Employers' Liability Act, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Walter Leake and Mr. David H. Leake, with whom
Mr. Henry Taylor, Jr., was on the brief, for plaintiff in
error.
Mr. C. V. Meredith and Mr. Hill Carter for defendant
in error.
MR.

JUSTICE

PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action brought in the United States District Court under the Federal Employers' Liability Act
of April 22, 1908 (c. 149, 35 Stat. 65).
Plaintiff was a brakeman in defendant's employ and,
during the night of July 2, 1912, was called for duty at
Gladstone, Virginia, to take his place as head brakeman
on a fast interstate freight train, known as a "manifest
train," comprising about forty cars, which had just come
into the division terminal yard at Gladstone and was
about to be taken forward. He got upon the road engine and this was attached to the train, plaintiff making
the coupling. Just after this he met the yardmaster,
who had charge of all the work done in the yard, whose
orders plaintiff was bound to obey, and who told plaintiff, according to his testimony, to "cut out three cars
at the head end of the train [numbers 2, 3 and 4] and
switoh them off on a side track and come back and couple
up, and they would be ready to go." Plaintiff proceeded
with the road engine and crew to take out the three cars,
returned to the main track with the engine and car number
one, coupled the latter to the forward end of the train,
and was in the act of coupling up the air hose, an operation that required him to step between the rails. While

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

he was in this position, a collision took place, caused by
the acts of the yard crew, who (unknown to plaintiff)
under orders of the yardmaster, and with the aid of the
yard engine, were engaged in switching cars at the rear
end of the train, and who,, negligently, as the jury doubtless found, drove a cut of twenty-nine cars into the standing cars (about eight in number) with undue violence.
According to the testimony of the road engineer and fireman the jar of the impact was such that, although their
engine was standing, with its independent brakes set,
it was thrown forward twenty feet along the track. Naturally plaintiff was knocked down and ruh over, and he
sustained serious personal injuries, includingthe loss of an
arm.
In view of the character of the question that is to be
passed upon, a somewhat particular recital of the evidence is necessary. There was testimony that when a
manifest train came into a terminal yard such as Gladstone, destined to points further along the line, the engine and caboose were changed and sometimes cars were
taken out and others brought into the train; and that in
order to save time it was customary to have such shifting
operations, when necessary, done at both ends of the train,
the road engine and road crew operating at the front,
the yard engine and yard crew at the rear. Whether
plaintiff knew of this custom was, under the evidence,
open to dispute. He at one time denied that he knew it
was customary for both ends of a manifest train to be
"worked" at the same time; and while this was afterwards qualified, it appears not to have been withdrawn.
He admitted that it was customary to follow the instructions of the yardmaster, hut denied that on this occasion
the yardmaster told him anything to the effect that the
rear end of the train was to be worked. He testified that
he had no notice that anything Was to be done at that
end of the train beyond attaching the caboose, and that

CHES. & OHIO RY. v. PROFFITT.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

after putting the second, third and fourth cars upon the
side track and coming back to the train he looked up the
track, which was straight, saw no lamp or other signal,
and then proceeded with his coupling operations, with the
result already mentioned. Whether it was usual, in
conducting such switching operations, to have a man
at the forward end of the moving cut of cars, was in dispute. Plaintiff testified that "it is the custom to have a
man on the front end of a cut of cars that is being switched
into other cars, who looks out for that and runs and stops
the engine just before they get there, in making the
coupling." Two of defendant's witnesses contradicted
this; one in terms denying the custom of giving a warning
as stated by plaintiff; the other declaring that "all the
warning he knew of being given, or the practice, was for
the men in and about the train to take care of themselves
and see for his own danger when he attempts to do any
work, and the witness knew of no signals given"; while
another and experienced witness, called by defendant,
being asked if it was customary when running in a cut of
cars to have a man on the front end with a light, replied:
"Well, on the yard in switching cars they come right
down to the book rule. It says where cars are being shoved
a man must be placed on the head car." Whether there
was a man at the forward end of the cut of cars that produced the collision in question was in controversy. As
to plaintiff's opportunity to gain knowledge of the alleged custom, it did not distinctly appear that he had
previously worked on a manifest train. He testified that
he had been employed as brakeman something more than
five years, part of the time as an extra man and part of
the time as a regular man; that he was an extra man when
hurt; had been a regular brakeman until about three
weeks before the accident, when he was "pulled off the
local freight."
Plaintiff recovered a verdict for substantial damages,

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

and the judgment was affirmed by the Circuit Court of
Appeals. 218 Fed. Rep. 23.
There are numerous assignments of error, but most of
them are manifestly unfounded. The only ones requiring
notice are based upon the refusal of the trial court to instruct the jury in accordance with defendant's Request
B, and the modified instruction that was given in its
stead. The requested instructionwas, in substance: That
if the jury believed from the evidence that the method
adopted by defendant in making up the train on the
occasion in question was the usual and ordinary method
of doing this work, then plaintiff assumed all the 'risks
incident to that method, and they should not find a verdict
in his favor because of any injury received on account of
said method of doing the work, even though it was the
direct and proximate cause of his injury. The instruction
given was, in substance: That defendant had the right to
adopt reasonable rules and regulations for the conduct and
method of handling its trains in its yards, and of making.
up trains for their departure therefrom, and that if the
jury believed from the evidence that the custom prevailed
in the Gladstone yard of making up the train from both
ends at the same time, that is to say, by working the train
engine and crew at the forward end and the yard engine
and its crew at the rear end, and that such method was
one that reasonably prudent and careful men would have
adopted in the conduct of the business, then the plaintiff
assumed the risks reasonably and usually incident to and
arising from such method of making up trains, and they
should not find a verdict in his favor because of any injury received solely on account of said method of making
up the train, although they believed from the evidence
that the method adopted was the proximate cause of the

injury.
The argument for plaintiff in error is that an employee
assumes the risks arising from the employer's method of

CHES. & OHIO RY. v. PROFFITT.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

doing the work, where the dangers are open, obvious or
known to the employee, even though they be due to the
employer's negligence in establishing the method or system; that the customary method of shifting and coupling cars at both ends of a manifest train at the same
time, without notice or warning to those working at the
other end, was open, obvious, and known to plaintiff; and
that he therefore assumed the risk of any injury from that
source.
It appears to have been conceded by plaintiff in the
Circuit Court of Appeals that the attaching and detaching
of cars by working on both ends of the train at the same
time, was customary at the Gladstone yard; butit does
not appear to have been conceded in that court or in the
trial court that plaintiff knew of this custom or had had
such opportunity for knowledge as to be charged with
notice of it. Nor was it conceded that the custom included the pushing in of a cut of cars without a man at
their head to give warning to other workmen and to signal
the engineer to slacken speed. As already shown, the
evidence left these matters open to dispute.
There are several reasons why error cannot be attributed to the trial court for refusing the requested instruction B.
(a) The evidence left it in doubt what method was
adopted in making up the train in question and what
was the usual and ordinary method, and the request
therefore failed to define what state of facts should charge
plaintiff with an assumption of the risk.
(b) The request ignored the question whether plaintiff
had knowledge or was chargeable with notice of the customary method. The argument in effect concedes, what
is plainly inferable from the evidence, that the danger to a
brakeman at work in switching at one end of a manifest
train, arising from switching operations conducted by another crew at the other end, is not among the ordinary

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

risks of a brakeman's employment. But, if it was an unusual and extraordinary danger, plaintiff could not be
held to have assumed it, in the absence of knowledge or
notice on his part. To subject an employee, without warning, to unusual dangers not normally incident to the employment, is itself an act of negligence. And, as has been
laid down in repeated decisions of this court, while an employee assumes the risks and dangers ordinarily incident
to the employment in which he voluntarily engages, so
far as these are not attributable to the negligence of the
employer or of those for whose conduct the employer is
responsible, the employee has a right to assume that the
employer has exercised proper care with respect to providing a reasonably safe place of work (and this includes
care in establishing a reasonably safe system or method
of work) and is not to be treated as assuming a risk that is
attributable to the employer's negligence until he becomes
aware of it, or it is so plainly observable that he must be
presumed to have known of it. The employee is not
obliged to exercise care to discover dangers not ordinarily incident to the employment, but which result from
the employer's negligence. Tex. & Pac. Ry. v. Archibald,
170 U. S. 665, 671, 672; Choctaw, Oklahoma &c. R. R. v.
McDade, 191 U. S. 64, 68; Tex. & Pac. Ry. v. Harvey, 228
U. S. 319, 321; Gila Valley Ry. v. Hall, 232 U. S. 94, 101;
Seaboard Air Line v. Horton, 233 U. S. 492, 504.
(c) The request required defendant to be acquitted if
the usual method of doing the work was pursued, irrespective of the question of the negligence of the yard
crew in carrying it out. Negligence in the doing of the
work was the gravamen of plaintiff's complaint, in his
declaration as in his evidence, and defendant was not entitled to an instruction making the pursuit of a customary
system decisive of the issue, without regard to whether
due care was exercised in doing the work itself. Even if
plaintiff knew and assumed the risks of an inherently

CHES. & OHIO RY. v. PROFFITT.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

dangerous method of doing the work, he did not assume
the increased risk attributable not to the method but to
negligence in pursuing it. Had the instruction been given
in form as requested, the jury, in view of the issue and the
evidence, might easily have interpreted it as meaning
that if defendant's employees usually and customarily
made up trains in such a manner that by a violent collision produced by negligent switching operations at the
rear end of a long train a brakeman engaged in the performance of his duties at the forward end, and having
no notice or warning of the rear-end switching, was in
danger of serious personal injury, there was no liability.
This, of course, is not the law.
Nor is the modification of the requested instruction a
matter of which defendant may complain. The court
evidently understood the request as meaning no more
than what it said, and as not intended to embrace the
hypothesis that plaintiff knew or had notice that the
usual method of making up trains was that adopted on
the occasion in question. In the absence of such knowledge
or notice, the custom could not be made binding upon
plaintiff; certainly not without a finding that it was one
that a reasonably careful employer would have adopted.
It was this finding that the modification called for.
Judgment affirmed.

