MISSOURI v. CHI., BURL. & QUINCY R. R.
241 U. S.

533

Syllabus.

STATE OF MISSOURI v. CHICAGO, BURLINGTON
& QUINCY RAILROAD COMPANY.
MOTION TO STRIKE A DEFENSE FROM THE ANSWER.
No. 16, Original. Argued May 2, 3, 1916.-Deided June 12,: 1916.
In exerting the public rate-making power a State cannot, without violating the Federal Constitution, make the rates so low as to be
confiscatory; and although the State may not be sued without its
consent, an individual, even though he be a state officer, may be
enjoined from doing an act violating the Federal Constitution.
From the power to fix railroad rates there results the duty to provide
the opportunity of testing their repugnancy as a unit to the Constitution in case confiscation were charged.
In virtue of the due process provision of the Fourteenth Amendment, a State may not, by mandamus, compel a railroad to comply
with rates fixed by a state law unless an opportunity is afforded to
test the question of confiscation. Chicago &c. Ry. v. Mfnnesota,
134 U. S. 418.
This court has recognized the right of a railroad company to test the
rates, prescribed by a state statute as a unit and to obtain an injunction, restraining state officers from enforcing the law in its entirety, if it is found to be confiscatory.
The right to test a rate-making law as a unit is not exclusive of the
right to test it by resisting in each particular case an individual
effort to enforce a single rate prescribed.
The practice which has arisen of qualifying as "without prejudice"
the decree in rate cases in which assertions of confiscation have
not been upheld, and when the situation justified the qualification,
is not so as to leave the controversy open as to the period dealt with
by the decree, but so as not to prejudice property rights in the future,
if from future operation and changed conditions confiscation in the
future should result. Knoxville v. Water Co., 212 U. S.1.
The qualification of a decree dismissing a bill in a case brought by a
railroad company to enjoin state officers from enforcing a rate statute as without prejudice, does not leave the matter open so that in
a subsequent individual case brought by the State to recover excess
fares paid during the period covered by the company's 'suit the
defendant can attack the constitutionality of the law as a Whole.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Argument for Defendant.

241 U. S.

The fact that the State was not a party to the company's suit in which
a decree dismissing the bill without prejudice was entered, and could
not have been made a party without its consent, does not make such'
decree inapplicable in the individual suit of the State to recover
excess fares paid during the period covered by the company's suit,
and such defense should be struck from the answer.
Quere, whether a suit by a railroad company against state officers to
enjoin enforcement of a rate-making statute is not a class suit
binding upon all.
Qucere as to the ultimate right to recover for excess rates paid pending
a stay while the constitutionality of a rate-fixing statute was pending, in the absence of a condition to that effect imposed when the
injunction was issued.

THE facts, which involve the construction and effect
of the decision by this court in the Missouri Rate Cases,
230 U. S. 474, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. John T. Barker, Attorney General of the State of
Missouri, with whom Mr. Lee B. Ewing, Mr. W. T. Rutherford arid Mr. Kenneth C. Sears were on the brief, for complainant:
The injunction suit brought by defendant railroad in
the District Court at Kansas City has been finally determined and the bill dismissed and injunction dissolved.
Whatever money or property defendant received under
or by virtue of such injunction or decree must be restored
to complainant and defendant will not be heard to deny
such right and cannot plead that such rates were confiscatory. Therefore such plea should be stricken out.
Where a carrier alleges a rate to be confiscatory it may
litigate the question by enjoining the representatives of
the State. It cannot litigate the question against individuals. This would be a collateral attack; and, as a direct
method is provided, that method is exclusive. Numerous
authorities support these contentions.
Mr. 0. M. Spencer and Mr. Frank Hagerman,with whom
Mr. Chester W. Dawes was on the brief, for defendant:

MISSOURI v. CHI., BURL. & QUINCY R. R.
241 U. S.

535

Argument for Defendant.

The motion erroneously assumes that the question of
confiscation was here (230 U. S. 474) settled and upon its
merits finally adjudicated.
If, as the answer alleges, the two-cent statutory fare
requirement was confiscatory, then the complainant
cannot recover, and any defense which so shows, is, of
course, proper.
Complainant erroneously seeks to have this court now
decide this question: If an injunctive decree against the
enforcement by state officers of the penal provisions of a
state railroad statute fixing rates is entered, either on the
merits or without prejudice, but subsequently set aside,
are passengers, without more, entitled, as a common-law
right, to sue for and recover any excess in rates collected
while injunction was in force?
But even to such claim confiscation is a defense.
The first contention is that the State has a commonlaw right (if not superseded by a statute) arising out of a
violation of a rate statute.
This common-law right of action for excess fares has,
however, been superseded by exclusive penal remedies,
which cannot and are not sought to be here enforced.
The rates upon which a recovery is attempted to be
based were not those scheduled.
. The liability,-if any, being only for statutory penalties,
these were by the injunction proceedings put definitely,
not contingently, in a state of legal suspense.
The next contention rests upon doctrine of restitution,
which has no application, for that:
In contesting the validity of the rates the railroad
company changed its. status from a mere public-service
corporation to a constitutional contestant of an alleged
legislative attempt to take the property without due
process of law and every act done by reason of the injunction or which thereby became permissible was, unless
so secured, damnum absque injuria, so that it did not

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

legally cause any damage for which restitution is sought,
damage legally caused being the sole basis of restitution.
Restitution cannot be asserted by one who was not a
party to the suit, nor where the judgment was without
prejudice to the merits, which the defendant now desires
to litigate. Numerous authorities support these contentions.
Mr. Ernest E. Watson, Mr. H. A. Abernethy, Mr. W. T.
Alden, Mr. Campbell Cummings, Mr. H. L. McCune,
Mr. F. W. Paschal and Mr. Clifford B. Allen, by leave
of the court, filed briefs as amici curia.
MR. CHIEF JUSTCE WHITE delivered the opinion of
the court.
A preliminary outline is essential to clear the way for
an understanding of the case. By original action here
brought the State sues to recover a sum of money for
passenger fares in excess of the rate established by law
paid by its officers when traveling within the State on
state business. Answering, the railroad alleges among
other defenses that the rates fixed by law were so low
as to be confiscatory and hence repugnant to the Constitution of the United States. The matter for decision arises
on a motion on behalf of the State to strike out this defense on the ground that the right to assert it is barred
by a decree of this court establishing that the rates fixed
by the state law were lawful and not confiscatory,-a
decree the conclusive effect of which, it is asserted, the
railroad company is estopped from denying.
The case as made by the pleadings and by the record
in which the decree relied on was rendered, of which we
take judicial notice, is this: In April, 1905, by law Missouri established certain freight rates. Almost at once
the defendant company and others filed their bills in

MISSOURI v. CHL, BURL. & QUINCY R. R.
241 U. S.

537

Opinion of the Court.

the Circuit Court of the United States for the Western
District Of Missouri against the State Board of Warehouse
Commissioners, the Attorney General of the State and
certain shippers alleged to be representative, to enjoin
the 'carrying out of the rate-fixing law on the ground
that to enforce the rates which it fixed would result in
confiscation and a taking of the property of the railroads
in violation of the Constitution. An injunction was
granted prohibiting the carrying into effect of the rate
law. While these suits were pending the State by law
fixed a passenger rate and, repealing the freight law which
had been enjoined, enacted another, and by supplemental
bills both these laws were assailed on the grounds upon
which the other law had been attacked and injunctions
were awarded restraining their enforcement. After much
testimony offered on the issue of confiscation, the court
permanently enjoined the enforcement of the state statutes. On review in this court, as to the railroad now
before us and others, this conclusion was held to be erroneous and the decree which was entered here reversed and
remanded the case with directions to dismiss the bill without prejudice. Missouri Rates Cases, 230 U. S. 474, 509.
Although the contentions respectively pressed in argument are numerous, their solution depends upon the application of a few well settled principles which we proceed
to state in order to test all the propositions by applying
them and thus avoid redundancy.
1. In Chicago &c. Railway Co. v. Minnesota, 134 U. S.
418, considering a law fixing railroad rates in the light of
two settled rules, (a) that in exerting the public ratemaking power the rates cannot be made so low as to be
confiscatory without violating the Constitution, and (b)
that although a State is not subject to suit without its
consent there is always the right to enjoin an individual,
whether he is a state officer or not, from doing an act
violating the Constitution, that is, from taking property

538

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 V. S.'

unlawfully, it was held that both these propositions controlled in the fullest degree in the legislative fixing of railroad rates. In fact it w~s in that case decided that from
the act of fixing railroad rates by law there resulted the
duty to provide an opportunity for testing their repugnancy as a unit to the Constitution in Case there was a
charge that they were confiscatory. It was accordingly
held that in virtue of the due process of law provision
of the Fourteenth Amendment the State could not by
mandamus compel a railroad to comply with rates fixed
by a state law unless an opportunity was afforded to test
the question of confiscation.
Developing and applying this doctrine in many cases,
it
came to pass that on the complaint of a railroad as to the
confiscatory character of rates fixed by state law, the
right was recognized to test the rates as a unit and therefore to obtain an injunction restraining the enforcement of
the state law in its entirety and that for such purpose any
officers of the State having any power to directly enforce
the law or by indirection to give effect to the same in
any mainer whatever were qualified as defendants to
stand in judgment for the relief asked. Reagan v. Farmers'
Loan & Trust Co., 154 U. S. 362; Smyth v. Ames, 169
U. S. 466; Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 123; Willcox v.
Consolidated Gas Co., 212 U. S. 19; Minnesota Rate Cases,
230 U. S. 352; Missouri Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 474; Norfolk & Western Ry. v. West Virginia, 236 U. S. 605.
2. While it is true that the comprehensive right thus
recognized was broader and more efficacious than would
be the right of a railroad merely to resist in each particular
case an individual effort to enforce a single rate fixed by
law (see Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 123), it is true also
that the recognized broader right was not, unless it was
availed of, exclusive of the latter and narrower one, that
is, the right to resist separate attempts to enforce a rate.
St. Louis & San FranciscoRy. v. Gill, 156 U. S. 649. This

MISSOURI v. CHI., BURL. & QUINCY R. R4
241 U. S.

539

Opinion of the Court.

principle was but a recognition of the fact that the broader
right to invoke a complete remedy to enjoin the law and
thus prevent the enforcement ofthe rates, did not take
away the narrower right of a railroad to stand upon the
defensive and merely resist the attempt to enforce the
rate in each particular case because of its confiscatory
character. One right was not destructive of the. other
because there was freedom to elect which of the two,would
be pursued.
3. Resulting from the principles just stated, recognizing that the operation of a decree enjoining the giving
effect to a rate law because of its alleged confiscatory
character differed materially both as to the public interest
and -that of the railroad from the consequences which
would arise from a mere decree rejecting the complaint
of a person as to an individual and consummated grievance based on the claim that an illegal rate had been
charged, it came to pass that a form of decree came to be
applied in rate cases to meet and provide for this difference. In other words, in a rate case where an assertion
of confiscation was not upheld because of the weakness
of the facts supporting it, the practice came to be that the
decree rejecting the claim and giving effect to the statute
was, where it was deemed the situation justified it, qualified as "without prejudice", not to leave open the controversy as to the period with which the decree dealt and
which it concluded, but in order not to prejudice rights
of property in the future'if from future operation and
changed conditions arising in such future it resulted that
there was confiscation. And the same limitation arising
from a solicitude not to unduly restrain in the future the
operation of the law came to be applied where the asserted
confiscation was held to be established. In other words,
the decree enjoining the enforcement of the statute in
that case was also qualified as without prejudice to the
enforcement of the statute in the future if a change in

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241.U. S.

conditions arose. The doctrine in the first aspect nowhere
finds a more iucid statement than the one made on (behalf
of the court by Mr. Justice Moody in Knoxville v. Knoxville Water Co., 212 U. S. 1. It has since been repeatedly
applied in language which in the completest way makes
the meaning of the limitation without prejudice in such 'a
case clear and leaves no ground for any dispute whatever
on the subject. Willcox v. Consolidated Gas Co., 212
U. S. 19; Northern Pacific Ry. v. North Dakota, 216 U. S.
579; Louisville v. Cumberland Tel. & Tel. Co., 225 U. S.
430; Missouri Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 474; Des Moines Gas
Co. v. Des Moines, 238 U. S. 153. A complete illustration
of the operation of the qualification is afforded by the
North Dakota Case, just cited, since in that case as a result
of the qualification "without prejudice" the case was subsequently re-opened and upon a consideration of new
conditions arising in such future period a different result
followed from that which had been previously reached.
Nor. Pac. Ry. v. North Dakota, 236 U. S. 585. As to the
second aspect, that is the significance of the limitation
without prejudice as applied to a decree which enjoined
the rates as confiscatory, the meaning of the reservation
as we have stated it was in express terms through an
abundance of precaution defined and stated in the opinion in the Missouri Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 474, 508.
Let us test the merit of the respective contentions by
these propositions.
(a) It is insisted that the right obtains to assert as
against the individual suit of the State the existence of
the confiscation for the very period covered by the previous finding that there was a failure to establish the confiscation, because the reservation without prejudice which
was made in that decree leaves the whole subject open for
a renewed attack as to individuals and indeed by general
complaint as to the unconstitutionality of the law as a
whole. But this proposition simply disregards the founda-

MISSOURI v. CHI., BURL. & QUINCY R. R.
241 U. S.

541

Opinion of the Court.

tion upon which such a reservation came to be applied,
as we have just pointed out, in cases involving an assault
upon the present and future operation of a law. fixing
rates. In other words, the contention but accepts the
doctrine previously announced and yet repudiates the
cases by which that doctrine was established by affixing
a meaning to the reservation "without prejudice" as used
in the cases wholly destructive of the sole object and purpose for which in those cases the reservation came to be
applied. Again it is said, conceding that the limitation
without prejudice when applied to a rate case under
the authorities has the significance which we have affixed
to it, that mehning should only prevent the re-opening of
the inquiry as to the period embraced by the testimony
in the case and therefore should not be extended so as to
prevent the re-opening from the time at least of the close
of the testimony. This, it is said, must be the case since
there might well be a change in conditions between the
time when the proof in a case was taken and the entry of
the final decree. But this contention again disregards the
doctrine upon which, as we have pointed out, the reservation in rate-making cases came to be applied. In other
words it treats the reservation without prejudice as looking
backward and overthrowing that which was concluded
by the. decree instead of considering it in its true light,
that is, as looking forward to the future and providing for
conditions which might then arise.
(b) Conceding for the argument's sake the controlling
influence of what we have said, nevertheless the contention is that the previous decree is here inapplicable since
the State was not a party to the litigation in which the
decree was entered, indeed, could not have been made a
party without its consent. But once more the argument
proceeds upon a disregard of the previous cases upon the
authority of which the right was exercised to obtain on
the charge of confiscation the exertion of judicial au-

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

thority to stay or suspend every vestige of power asserted
by the state statute fixing rates until the controversy
was determined. In other words, the proposition ignores
the doctrine settled by the previous cases that there inhered in, and went along with, the rate-making power a
duty on the part of the State to afford means for judicially
deciding a question of confiscation when asserted. It is
true, as we have previously pointed out, that because
there was a right on the part of a railroad to sue to prevent the execution of the state power manifested in the
rate-making law, it did not follow that the railroad was
deprived of its right'to resist the enforcement of the law
by way of defense when an attempt was mbde to enforce
the law against it. But it is true also, as we have seen,
that the right to elect between the, two was undoubted,an election the potency of which was pointed out in the
Gill Case, supra, and was moreover in the clearest way
fully expounded in the Young Case, supra, p. 166. This
being true, it is obvious that the question here is not how
far the decree relied upon was binding upon parties who
were not technical defendants, but how far is it binding
upon the railroad. In other words, it is whether when
there has been an election to obtain a remedy by proceedings against particular defendants comprehensive
enough to restrain the giving effect of every vestige of
state power which was embraced in the authority exerted
by the State in passing the rate-making law, it can now
be said by the railroad in order to frustrate or limit the
decree rendered in the case that the restraint did not
operate as against the rate-making power so far as the
interest of the State is concerned because the State was
not a party. The right to restrain the whole power having
been enjoyed for the purpose of the complaint as to confiscation which was made, the contrary cannot be asserted
in order to escape the effect of the decree holding that
such complaint was erroneously made. In last analysis

MISSOURI v. CHI., BURL. & QUINCY R. R.
241 U. S.

543

Opinion of the Court.

the contention comes simply to asserting that the settled
rule of Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 123, and the cases which
preceded it was wrong and there was no right to restrain
the complete enforcement of the rate law without the
presence of the State as a technical party. And the cogency of this consideration is made quite clear by bearing
in mind as expressly pointed out in the Young Case, supra,
p. 166, that the power which the court possessed by virtue
of the bringing of the suit at the instance of the railroad
to enjoin and suspend the whole rate-making law comprehensively included the right to stay proceedings brought
in other courts which would have tended to set aside or
frustrate the authority to completely exercise the jurisdiction acquired.
As it results from what we have said that in our opinion
by the application of the most elementary principles of
estoppel the railroad may not be heard to disavow what
it asserted in order to secure the suspension of the rate
law during the suit, it follows that it was without right
in this case to assert the defense of confiscation and the
motion to strike out the same must therefore prevail.
As the view which we have taken of the controversy
has not rendered it necessary to consider whether in any
event the suit was not a class suit binding upon all, into
that subject we have not entered. Additionally, we have
not considered and express no opinion upon the arguments
dealing with questions of the ultimate right to recover
in the absence of a condition to that effect imposed when
the injunction was issued, in view of the terms of the
injunction bond, etc., etc.
The motion to strike out the defense of confiscation from
the answer is granted.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

dissents.

