CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
CHIN FONG v. BACKUS, COMMISSIONER OF
IMMIGRATION FOR THE PORT OF SAN FRANCISCO.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 664. Argued April 5, 6, 1916.--Decided April 17, 1916.
Where the right of a person of Chinese descent to enter this country
depends, as in this case, upon the statutes regulating Chinese immigration and not upon the construction of provisions of treaties relat-

ing thereto, a direct appeal will not lie to this court under § 238, Jud.
Code, from a judgment dismissing a petition for habeas corpus of a
Chinese person detained for deportation.
The status of a Chinese merchant, as defined by the treaty with China
of 1880, is that acquired in China and not in this country.

THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court
of appeals from the District Court under § 238, Judicial
Code, are Stated in the opinion.
Mr:. Jackson H. Ralston, with whom Mr. William E.
Richardson" as on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General William Wallace, Jr., for
the appellee.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
Appeal from a judgment dismissing a petition for
habeas corpus and remanding petitioner to the custody
of the Commissioner of Immigration for the Port of San
Francisco, in whose custody he was, pending petitioner's
deportation.
A summary of the petition made by the District Court is
as follows:
"Petitioner Chin Fong, who had been a resident of the
United States for a number of years, departed for China
in November, 1912; that. before he left he applied for a
pre-investigation as to his status as a merchant, and a
certificate was denied him on the ground that his original
entry into this country was surreptitious. Notwithstanding this denial the petitioner left the country, and is now
endeavoring to re-enter as a returning Chinese merchant;
that he presents the affidavits of a member of the New
York firm to which he claims to belong and of two reputable Americans supporting his claim; that notwithstanding these facts he has been denied admission and ordered
deported on the same ground that his pre-investigation
certificate was denied, that is to say, because his original
entry was surreptitious; that in so deciding the immigration department has exceeded its authority, as that question can only be determined under the Exclusion laws by a
Justice, Judge or Commissioner."
A demurrer was interposed to the petition which was
sustained, the court saying: "Had the petitioner been
content to remain in this country he could have been
deported only after a hearing before a Justice, Judge or
Commissioner. But as he left the country voluntarily,
and even after a pre-investigation certificate was denied
him, the question of his right to re-entry lies peculiarly
with the immigration department, and as they have found

CHIN FONG v. BACKUS.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that he is not entitled, to re-enter such finding cannot be
disturbed. A different rule prevails, and a different
tribunal determines in the case of a Chinese applying to
enter from that of one already in this country whom it is
sought to deport, under the Exclusion laws."
The decision of the court is contested and it is asserted
(1) that the petition was sufficient to entitle petitioner to a
discharge; (2) that the Commissioner of Immigration and
Secretary of Labor could not require a greater and different
degree of proof than that specified in § 2 of the act of
Congress of May 5, 1892, c. 60, 27 Stat. 25, entitled "An
Act to Prohibit the" coming of Chinese persons into the
United States"; (3) that petitioner furnished the degree
of proof required by the law; (4) that the rights guaranteed
petitioner under the treaty between the United States
and China concerning immigration, November 17, 1880,
were unduly and unlawfully infringed, and (5) that the
decision of the Commissioner was against the law and was
an abuse of discretion.
The appeal is direct from the District Court and can
only be sustained against the motion of the United States
to dismiss for want of jurisdiction in this court if there is a
substantial question under the Constitution of the United
States or a treaty made under their authority, § 238 of the
Judicial Code permitting an appeal from a District Court
when a constitutional question is involved and in any
case "in which .
. the validity or construction -of
any treaty made under its [United States] authority is
drawn in question."
It will be observed that appellant based his. right to
land solely on the ground that he had been a merchant in
the United States before his departure to China and that,
therefore, it was not competent for the immigration officers
to inquire or determine whether his original entry into
the United States was open or surreptitious and his stay
therein legal or illegal. "The principal proposition that

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

we desire to maintain," counsel say, "and which has apparently been ignored by the Department of Labor, is
that when Congress has definitely fixed the tests and qualifications attendant upon the determination of a given act,
it is not within the power of an administrative officer to
add to or subtract from the congressional rule." The case
of Lau Ow Bew v. United States,. 144 U. S. 47, is cited.
For the "congressional rule" counsel refer to § 2 of the act
of November 3, 1893 (28 Stat. 78), which reads as follows:
"Where an application is made by a Chinaman for
entrance into the United States on the ground that he was
formerly engaged in this country as a merchant, he shall
establish by the testimony of two credible witnesses other
than Chinese the fact that he conducted such business as
hereinbefore defined for at least one year before his departure from the United States, and that during such
year he was not engaged in the performance of any manual
labor, except such as was necessary in the conduct of his
business as such merchant, and in default of such proof
shall be refused landing."
It is contended that the section requires proof by a
Chinaman seeking entrance into the United States of two
facts only-(1) that he had been a merchant for one year
before his departure, and (2) that during such time he had
not engaged in manual labor except such as was necessary
in the conduct of his business as such merchant. These
were the only conditions of the right to enter, it is contended, and it was an irrelevant inquiry whether he
"originally entered as a laborer or even surreptitiously."
And in emphasis counsel say, "The manner of entry was
entirely ignored by Congress."
These being the conditions, it is hence- asserted that if
the Department of Labor may superadd one qualification
it may another "until the law becomes entirely unrecognizable." So far manifestly there is nothing but an appeal
to the statute, but the treaty is attempted to be invoked

CHIN FONG v. BACKUS.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

by the following: "Such a course [the addition to the
qualifications of the statute] would be in plain derogation
of the treaty obligations between -the United States and
China, allowing to Chinese merchants freedom of egress
and ingress in the manner permitted to citizens of the
most favored nations, the essential fact by law and treaty
being merely that of mercantile status."
No provision of the treaty is cited from which the contention is an applicable deduction, nor are we disposed to
quote and comment on the entire treaty in answer to the
contention. See 22 Stat. 826, Nov. 17, 1880; also Lau Ow
Bew v. United States, supra. The "merchant" defined by
it does not include petitioner. It was the definition of the
status acquired in China, not acquired in the United
States, and, having been acquired in China, gave access
to the United States and after access freedom of movement as citizens of the most favored nations. And this
privilege was given as well to Chinese laborers then (1880)
in the United States.
We think, therefore, there is no substantial merit in the
contention that the case involves the 'construction of a
treaty and that the rights of petitioner can rest only upon
the statutes regulating Chinese immigration. So concluding we are not called upon to decide or express opinion
whether petitioner's original entry into the United States
and his subsequent residence therein were illegal and
whether he could acquire by either a status which the
immigration officers were without power to disregard.
Dismissed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the consideration and decision of this case.

