BAUGHAM v. N. Y., PHILA. & NORFOLK R. R. 237
241 U. S.

Syllabus.

to express or to bring into prominence the appreciation
by plaintiff of the danger he incurred.
The instruction was refused by the trial court upon
objection by plaintiff. It was considered by the Supreme
Court of Appeals and plaintiff contended against it there
only upon the ground that the assumption of risk was
not available as a defense under the act of Congress.
He made the contention there that he does here, and
which we have already considered, that the act of Con-:
gress precludes the defense of assumption of risk of any
condition or situation caused by the negligence of a carrier.
And this was the full extent of plaintiff's contention.
Had he made the specific one now made the Supreme
Court of Appeals would have dealt with it, for the opinion
of the court shows a clear recognition of the elements
necessary to the doctrine of assumption of risk and the
trial court as well must have understood them; and we
cannot suppose that the court discerned in plaintiff's
general objection the specification which he now contends
was necessary and which it was error to refuse.
Judgment affirmed.

BAUGHAM, ADMINISTRATOR OF BAUGHAM, v.
NEW YORK, PHILADELPHIA & NORFOLK RAILROAD COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE-SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE
OF VIRGINIA.
No. 327.

Argued April 27, 1916.-Decided May 22, 1916.

Whether the injured employee knew of and assumed the risk of the
danger resulting in his injury and death depends upon the evidence;
and where, as in this case, the state courts, trial and appellate, have

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

decided against plaintiff's contentions and in so doing have in effect
held that the conditions of assumption of risk were satisfied, this
court, unless it finds such conclusion palpably erroneous, simply
announces its concurrence.
Jacobs v. Southern Railway, ante, p. 229, followed to the effect that the
contention that, as a matter of law, the common-law assumption of
risk is not a defense in bar of an action under the Employers' Liability Act is untenable.

THE facts, which involve the construction and application of the contributory negligence provisions of the Employers' Liability Act, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Edward P. Buford for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Thomas H. Willcox, with whom Mr. Francis I.
Gowen was on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
Action for damages under the Federal Employers'
Liability Act, brought in the Circuit Court of Norfolk
County, State of Virginia, by plaintiff in error (we shall
call him plaintiff), administrator of the -estate of Richard
T. Baugham.
The ground of action was that the railroad company,
an interstate carrier, caused by its negligence the death
of plaintiff's intestate while he was employed and engaged
in such commerce.
Richard T. Baugham was between the ages of eighteen
and twenty years and was engaged by the railroad company to act as brakeman in its yard at Port Norfolk,
Virginia. On the second day of his employment, while
mounting a freight car that was being transferred from
the wharf of the company to a barge moored at the wharf,

BAUGHAM v. N. Y., PHILA. & NORFOLK R. R. 239
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

he was killed by being crushed between that car and other
cars which were upon the barge.
There were four tracks on the barge. Between the
outside and center tracks, of which there were two, there
was sufficient space for an employee to mount in safety
cars moving between those tracks. There was also sufficient space between the center tracks for some distance
from where they entered the barge from the wharf. But
these tracks gradually converged until the space between
them so diminished that cars being moved on one center
track would almost touch those standing on the other
center track. The roofs of the cars would sometimes
touch.
By reason of this proximity of the cars it is alleged that
serious and deadly injury would be inflicted upon the
servants and employees of the company if they should be
caught between the cars. Plaintiff's intestate was so
caught and received injuries from which he died.
It was the duty of the company, it was alleged, to have
admonished and warned the deceased of the difficulties,
dangers and perils attendant upon his service and duties
as brakeman so that he might safely have performed them,
but that the company wholly failed to do so, and that in
consequence the deceased in the performance of his duties
as brakeman on trains being transferred from the wharf
to the barge and while ascending one of the cars was
caught and confined between the eaves of the roof of the
car which he was ascending and the eaves of the roof or
roofs of another car or cars and fatally injured.
Damages were prayed in the sum of $50,000.
The company pleaded not guilty and, as special defenses, that the deceased was guilty of contributory
negligence and that he "assumed, when he entered the
employment of the company, the risk of being injured in
the manner charged in the declaration."
The case was tried to a jury. Upon the conclusion of

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

the testimony the company demurred to the evidence
and plaintiff joined in the demurrer, whereupon, the jury
being required to say what damages the plaintiff sustained
if judgment should be given for plaintiff upon the evidence,
responded, "that if upon the demurrer to the evidence
the law be for the plaintiff, then we find for the plaintiff
and assess the damages which he ought to recover at ten
thousand dollars."
The demurrer to the evidence was sustained and it was
adjudged that plaintiff take nothing by his suit. The
judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court of Appeals.
The tracks on the barge and the operation of the cars can
easily be visualized. There were four tracks, two center
ones and two outside ones, the former converging as they
approached until they came so close together that any one
caught between cars moving upon them would be crushed.
The deceased, while ascending a moving car, was caught
between it and a car standing on the barge and fatally
injured. The inquiry is-and upon it rests the determination of the case--What knowledge had the deceased
of this situation and what was the effect of that knowledge
upon the liability, if any, of the company?
Plaintiff makes two contentions: (1) That the company
failed to warn deceased of the danger to which he was
exposed and that such failure was negligence on the part
of the company. (2) That the convergence of the tracks
on the barge was a defect or insufficiency due to the negligence of the company in its track, road-bed, barge and
equipment.
The railroad company opposes plaintiff's contentions
and insists that the deceased assumed the risk of the
danger which resulted in his injury and death. A determination of these contentions depends upon the evidence,
and, considering it, the state courts, trial and appellate,
decided against the contentions of plaintiff, and in so
doing. in effect held that the conditions of the assumption

CHES. & OHIO RY. v. CARNAHAN.
241 U. S.

241

Syllabus.

of risk by deceased were satisfied. Gila Valley Ry. v.
Hall, 232 U. S. 94, 102.
We have considered the evidence and we cannot say
that the conclusion was palpably erroneous, and following
the rule expressed in Great Northern Ry. v. Knapp, 240
U. S. 464, 466, and as having analogy, Chicago Junction
Ry. v. King, 222 U. S. 222, we announce our concurrence
without discussion.
It is further contended "that as a matter of law, the
common-law assumption of risk is not a defense in bar of
an action under the act of Congress." The contention
is untenable. Jacobs v. Southern Ry., ante, p. 229.
Judgment afflrmed.

CHESAPEAKE & OHIO RAILWAY COMPANY v.
CARNAHAN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE
OF VIRGINIA.

No. 743. Argued April 19, 20, 1916.-Decided May 22, 1916.
Minneapolis & St. Louis R. R. v. Bombolis, ante, p. 211, followed to
effect that the contention that in trial of cases under the Employers'
Liability Act the parties are entitled under the Seventh Amendment to a common-law jury of twelve men is untenable.
When the evidence shows that there will be future effects from an
injury, an instruction which justifies their inclusion in the award for
damages is not error.
Where the court explicitly enjoins the jury that there must be a proximate and causal relation between the damages and the negligence of
the defendant and refers to the amount stated in the declaration as a
limitation on the amount that can be awarded, and there is no misunderstanding as to the purpose of such reference, there is no error.

