McFARLAND v. AMERICAN SUGAR CO.
241 U. S.

Syllabus.

And there are other considerations. If depositing in the
post office of the statement prescribed be required by
the statute it, of course, would satisfy the statute, but to
what instant of time would it be referred and at what
risk the time or delays of transportation?
There need not be a prolonged embarrassment in the
prosecution of offenders as the Government fears. If
§ 6 is deemed defective it can be corrected by legislation.

Judgment atfrmed.

McFARLAND, SUPERVISOR OF PUBLIC ACCOUNTS OF LOUISIANA, v. AMERICAN SUGAR
REFINING COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.

No. 847.

Argued April 11, 12, 1916.-Decided April 24, 1916.

Act No. 10 of the Extra Session of the General Assembly of Louisiana
for 1915, relating to the business of refining sugar and creating the
rebuttable presumption that any person systematically paying
in that State a less price for sugar than he pays in any other State
is a party to a monopoly or conspiracy in restraint of trade, held
unconstitutional under the equal protection and due process provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment; the classification therein, if not
confined to a single party, being so arbitrary as to be beyond possible justice, and the presumptions created having no foundation
except on intent to destroy.
While the legislature may go far in raising presumptions and changing
the burden of proof, there must be rational connection between the
fact proved and the ultimate fact presumed.
It is not within the province of the legislature to declare an individual
guilty, or presumptively guilty, of a crime.
A statute must fall as a whole, if it falls in sections without which
there is no reason to suppose it would have been passed.
229 Fed. Rep. 284, affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

facts, which involve the constitutionality under the
commerce clause of, and the Fourteenth Amendment to,
the Federal Constitution of Act No. 10 of Louisiana of
1915, relative to, and regulating the business of, refining
sugar, are stated in the opinion.
THE

Mr. Donelson Caffery and Mr. Harry Gamble, with
whom Mr. Ruffin G. Pleasant, Attorney General of the
State of Louisiana, and Mr. Daniel Wendling were on
the brief, for appellants.
Mr. James M. Beck, with whom Mr. Joseph W. Carroll,
Mr. George Denegre, Mr. Hugh C. Cage and Mr. Frank L.
Crawford were on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a bill in equity brought by a New Jersey corporation, the 'appellee, against the Inspector of Sugar
Refining, the Governor and the Attorney General of
Louisiana, to prevent the enforcement of Act No. 10 of
the Extra Session of the General Assembly of that State
for 1915. The grounds of relief are the commerce clause
and the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of
the United States.
The plaintiff was granted a preliminary injunction by
three judges in the District Court and the defendants
appealed. 229 Fed. Rep. 284.
A summary of the statute is as follows: The business of
refining sugar is declared to be impressed with a public
interest 'by reason of the nature and by reason of the
monopolization thereof,' and on that footing the regulations are made. After providing for elaborate reports
and inspection of books by the Inspector the act imposes
for the benefit of the Inspection Fund a tax of one-hall
cent for every three hundred and fifty pounds of granu-

McFARLAND v. AMERICAN SUGAR CO.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

lated sugar made. It then makes it unlawful to buy
sugar on an ex parte test of quality, &c., and proceeds to
authorize the Inspector to make such reasonable regulations not only concerning that, but affecting any branch
of the business of sugar refining, as he may deem proper
and as may be conducive to the public interest, and to the
prevention of monopoly in the business or to the protection of the public from its consequences. Then come the
provisions chiefly in issue here. By § 7 "any person engaged in the business of refining sugar within this State
who shall systematically pay in Louisiana a less price for
sugar than he pays in any other State shall be prima
facie presumed to be a party to a monopoly or combination or conspiracy in restraint of trade and commerce,
and upon conviction thereof shall be subject to a fine of
five hundred dollars a day for the period during which he
is adjudged to have done so"; his license to do business
in the State is to be revoked, and any foreign corporation
(such as the plaintiff is) is to be ousted from the State
and its property sold. If irreparable injury to the public
interest is shown in such a case the court may appoint a
receiver at any stage of the proceedings, &c. By § 8 if
shown by affidavit or otherwise either in limine or after
trial that any refinery has been closed or kept idle for
more than one year it shall be presumed to have been
done for the purpose of violating this act or the laws
against monopoly, &c., and if the counter evidence does
not rebut the presumption the court shall order the owner
to sell the refinery within six months and if that is not
done shall appoint a receiver to do it within twelve
months. In computing the year of idleness any plant
shall be treated as idle that has not been operating bona
fide. By § 9 id suits for ouster, &c., upon showing by
the State that the monopoly, &c. are detrimental, to the
public welfare, an injunction may be issued or a receiver
appointed, after a hearing, subject to an appeal return-

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

able within five days to be determined within forty days,
&c. By § 10 a fine of from fifty to twenty-five hundred
dollars a day is imposed for violations of the act not otherwise provided for or of any of the regulations promulgated by the Inspector. By § 11, in suits under the act,
books, letters and other documents, 'or apparent copies
thereof,' of the defendant shall be given effect as being
what they purport to be and 'as establishing the facts
carried on their face' unless sufficiently rebutted, upon
proof of their having been in the possession or control of
the defendant; and any report of any legislative committee of the State, or of the Senate or House of Representatives of the United States, or of any bureau, department,
-or commission acting under the authority either of the
State or of the Senate or the House of Representatives of
the United States, and the records of any court of any
State, or of the United States are made -primafacie evidence of the facts set forth therein, subject to rebuttal. In
conclusion, by § 15 the business of refining sugar is defined to be "that of any concern that buys and refines
raw or other sugar exclusively, or that refines raw or other
sugar from sugar taken on toll, or that buys or refines
more raw or other sugar than the aggregate of the sugar
produced by it from cane grown and purchased by it."
Besides the allegations that bring the plaintiff within
the purview of the act, the claims of the protection of the
Constitution, and the invocation of the principle of Ex
parte Young, 209 U. S. 123, for equitable relief, the bill sets
forth some facts that throw special light upon the case.
First for the bearing of § 8, it shows that formerly the
.plaintiff purchased a consolidated refinery called the
Louisiana Refinery, increased its capacity to 2,500,000
pbunds daily and worked' it until 1909. - It then built at
a cost of about six million dollars a new refinery at Chalmette with a daily melting capacity of 3,000,000 pounds
since increased to 3,500,000. It then closed the Louisiana

McFARLAND v. AMERICAN SUGAR CO.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Refinery as it could not distribute from New Orleans more
refined sugar than could be made at Chalmette. The
machinery of the Louisiana Refinery is comparatively
antiquated and could not be operated economically, although in case' of the destruction of the Chalmette plant
it could be used as a substitute at considerable expense
and after some delay.
As to the presumption created from the systematic paying in Louisiana a less price for sugar than is paid in any
other State, the bill alleges that the plaintiff purchases
on an average less than one-half of the Louisiana sugar
crop, of which half over a third is shipped as bought, to
the plaintiff's northern refineries, so that not much over
thirty per cent. is melted at Chalmette. In fact only a
comparatively small portion of the plaintiff's meltings in
Louisiana is of sugar produced in Louisiana, the remainder
having been imported. The chief -port for the receipt of
raw sugar imported is New York, at or near which there
are seven large refineries now in operation.-The Louisiana
sugar custoinalily has been brought on the market in
November and December, during which months it is
pressed for sale in amounts far in excess of the requirements
of all the refineries in the State. Purchasers therefore had
either to ship a part north: or to store it with consequent
loss from deterioration and in weight, interest, and cost
of storage and insurance, and'at the risk of a decline in the
market. These elements necessarily affect the price,
which cannot be higher than that in the ultimate market
less the cost of transportation, and which has been approximately that. Furthermore the period of storage is a
time when the market for raw sugar generally declines
and the price of refined sugar follows that of raw to the
refiner's loss.
Formerly a. large part of the sugar manufactqred in
Louisiana by the plaintiff was sold in the middle west and
in Minnesota, Iowa, the Dakotas, &c., and it was to meet

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

that market that the Chalmette refinery was built. But
the great and rapid increase in the production of beet
sugar, which now forms one-sixth of all the sugar consumed in the United States and is sold at prices below
those of cane sugar, has driven the plaintiff out of those
markets to a great extent. The result frequently has been
that the plaintiff has derived little or no advantage from
the purchase of Louisiana sugar even when bought at a
less price than that in New York on the same day.
The bill also shows fully that the plaintiff melts solely
on its.own account so that its only contact with the public.
is as a buyer of raw and a seller of refined sugar and its
business is affected with a public interest not otherwise
than as any other business is, according to its importance
and size. It also shows that much the greater part of its
Chalmette commerce both in purchase and sale is foreign
or among the States. There are other allegations besides
those that we have summed up but enough has been
stated to disclose the plaintiff's case.
The answer alleges that the plaintiff is a monopoly and
combination in restraint of trade in buying, refining and
selling sugar throughout the United States and completely
controls the sugar trade in Louisiana and sets forth a long
series of letters thought to show efforts to obtain and keep
such control. It obliquely intimates that the plaintiff
can fix prices on occasion even in the New York market,
admitted to be the ruling one in the United States. It
alleges that suits have been brought against the plaintiff
by sugar planters, under the Sherman Act, for a total of
near $200,000,000, and that after the exposure of the
plaintiff's criminality in a suit by the United States that
seems to have come to nothing, this law was passed. All
of the foregoing, the main portion of the answer, is offered as ground for denying to the plaintiff any equitable
relief.
In the alternative, if the plaintiff has a standing in

McFARLAND v. AMERICAN SUGAR CO.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

equity, the answer denies the plaintiff's explanation of the
idleness of the Louisiana Refinery and avers that the
statement that it buys less than half the Louisiana crop
is deceptive, and that it buys seventy per cent. of the raw
sugar sold to refiners. It alleges that the shipping of raw
sugar north is due to artificial conditions created by the
plaintiff and that but for them the whole would be
'handled locally.' It also alleges that the difference between the Louisiana and the New York price has been
made less by the plaintiff since 1911, in order to prevent
a repetition of the one successful combination made by
the planters. Finally it alleges that the shipments to
New York arrive when there is no sugar on hand or when
the first sugar from Cuba is coming in, and enable the
plaintiff to influence downward the price of the Cuban
sugar that it needs. Most of the allegations of the bill are
denied, and it is said that the rush to sell in November and
December would have found a market but for the plaintiff's wrongful deeds.
The answer is signed by the Attorney General of the
State; and if he were authorized to interpret the meaning
of the other voice of the State heard in Act No. 10, would
seem to import that the latter was a bill of pains and
penalties disguised in general words. For the first division of the answer shows that the plaintiff is the only one
to whom the act could apply and that the statute was
passed in view of the plaintiff's conduct, to meet it. It is
upon the assumption of the latter fact that the argument
is pressed that the plaintiff has no standing in equity since
it made the legislation necessary. if the connection were
admitted it would be so much the worse for the constitutionality of the act. We deem it enough to say that
neither that supposed connection nor the general intimations of the plaintiff's wickedness in the answer deprive
it of its constitutional rights or prevent it from asserting
them in the only practicable and adequate way.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

The statute bristles with severities that touch the
plaintiff alone, and raises many questions that would have
to be answered before it could be sustained. We deem it
sufficient to refer to those that were mentioned by the
District Court; a classification which, if it does not confine
itself to the American Sugar Refinery, at least is arbitrary
beyond possible justice,-and a creation of presumptions
and special powers against it that can have no foundation
except the intent to destroy. As to the classification, if a
powerful rival of the plaintiff should do no refining within
the State it might systematically pay a less price for sugar
in Louisiana than it paid elsewhere with none of the consequences attached to doing so in the plaintiff's case.
So of anyone who purchases but does not refine. So of
any concern that does not buy. and refine more sugar
'than the aggregate of the sugar produced by it from cane
grown and purchased by it' as easily might happen with a
combination of *planters such as the answer gives us to
understand has been attempted heretofore.
As to the presumptions, of course the legislature may
go a good way in raising one or in changing the burden of
proof, but there are limits. It is "essential that there
shall be some rational connection between the fact proved
and the ultimate fact presumed, and that the inference
of one fact'from proof of another shall not be so unreasonable as to be a purely arbitrary mandate." Mobile, Jackson & Kansas City R. R. v. Turnipseed, 219 U. S. 35, 43.
The presumption created here has no relation in experience to general facts. It has no foundation except with
tacit reference to the plaintiff. But it is not within the
province of a legislature to declare an individual guilty
or presumptively guilty of a crime. If the statute had
said what it was argued that it means, that the plaintiff's
business was affected with a public interest by reason of
the. plaintiff's monopolizing it and that therefore the
plaintiff should be prima facie presumed guilty upon proof

NOR. PAC. RY. v. WALL.
241 U. S.

Syllabus.

that it was carrying on business as it does, we suppose
that no one would contend that the plaintiff was given
the equal protection of the laws. We agree with the court
below that the act must fall as a whole, as it falls in the
sections without which there is no reason to suppose that
it would have been passed.
Decree affirmed.

NORTHERN

PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. v. WALL,
ADMINISTRATOR.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MONTANA.

No. 350. Argued December 1, 1915.-Decided April 24, 1916.
Laws, in force at the time and place of the making of a contract and
which affect its validity, performance and enforcement, enter into
and form a part of it, as if expressly referred to or incorporated
therein.
A bill of lading is a contract; and, if interstate, it is to be construed
in the light of the provision of the Carmack Amendment, which
prescribes how it shall be issued and makes the connecting carrier
the agent of the receiving carrier for the purpose of completing the
transportation and delivering the goods.
Whether in construing an interstate bill of lading issued under the
Carmack Amendment due effect is given to the latter is a Federal
question.
A stipulation in a bill of lading of an interstate shipment of cattle that
the shipper must, as a condition precedent to his right of recovery
for injury to the cattle while in transit, give notice thereof in
writing to some officer or station agent of the initial carrier before
the cattle are removed from the place of destination or mingled
with other live stock, is to be construed in the light of the Carmack Amendment making the connecting or delivering carrier
agent of the initial carrier; and notice given to the station agent or
officer of the former operates as notice to the latter, and the fact
that there is no officer or station agent primarily employed by the
initial carrier at the point of destination does not relieve the shipper from compliance with the stipulation.
50 Montana, 122, reversed.

