OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Statement of the Case.

241 U. S.

TERMINAL TAXICAB COMPANY, INCORPORATED, v. KUTZ, NEWMAN, AND BROWNLOW,
COMMISSIONERS AND CONSTITUTING THE
PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA.
No. 348.

Argued M;y 2, 3, 1916.-Decided May 22, 1916.

In determining whether a corporation is or is not a common carrier
the important thing is what it actually does and not what its charter
says it may do.
A corporation authorized by its charter to carry passengers and goods
by automobiles, taxicabs and other vehicles, but not to exercise
any of the powers of a public service corporation, and which does
such business, including the carrying of passengers to and from
railroad terminals and hotels under contracts therewith, and also
does a garage business with individuals, held, in this case, to be a
common carrier within the meaning of the District of Columbia
Public Utility Act of 1913, and subject to the jurisdiction of the
Public Utilities Commission, as to the terminal and hotel business,
but not as to the garage business.
Such a corporation is bound under the Public Utilities Act to furnish
information properly required by the Commission in regard to its
terminal and hotel business, but not as to its private garage business;
and an order of the Commission requiring information as to all
classes of business should be so modified and limited as not to include
an inquiry into such garage business.
In this case held that the omission from a general order of the Commission of concerns doing such a small volume of business as, in the
opinion of the Commission, did not bring them within the meaning
of the Act did not amount to such a preference as to deny those
affected by the order the equal protection of the law.
43 App. D. C. 120, modified.

facts, which involve the construction and application of the provisions of the Act of March 4, 1913, creatTHE

TERMINAL TAXICAB CO. v. DIST. OF COL.
241 U. S.

253

Opinion of the Court.

ing the Public Utilities Commission of the District of
Columbia, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. G. Thomas Dunlop for appellant.
Mr. Conrad H. Syme for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is a suit to restrain the Public Utilities Commission of the District of Columbia from exercising jurisdiction over the plaintiff. The Commission was created
and its powers established by a section (ยง 8) of an appropriation act, divided into numbered paragraphs. Act of
March 4, 1913, c. 150, ยง 8. 37 Stat. 938, 974. By paragraph 2 of the section 'Every public utility is hereby
required to obey the lawful orders of the Commission,'
and by par. 1 public utility embraces every common
carrier, which phrase in turn is declared to include ',express companies and every corporation . . . controlling or managing any agency or agencies for public
use for the conveyance of persons or property within
the District of Columbia for hire.' Steam railroads,
some other companies, and the Washington Terminal
Company are declared not to be within the words. The
main question is whether the plaintiff is a common carrier
under the definition in the act. The bill was dismissed
by the Supreme Court and the decree was affirmed by
the Court of Appeals. 43 App. D. C. 120.
The facts are agreed. The plaintiff is a Virginia corporation authorized by its charter, with copious verbiage,
to build, buy, sell, let and operate automobiles, taxicabs,
and other vehicles, and to carry passengers and goods by
such vehicles; but not to exercise any of the powers of a
public service corporation. It does business in the Dis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

trict, and the important thing is what it does, not what
its charter says. The first item, amounting to about
thirty-five hundredths of the whole, is done under a lease
for years from the Washington Terminal Company, the
owner of the Union Railroad Station in Washington,
which we have mentioned as excluded from the definition
of common carriers. By this lease the plaintiff has the
exclusive right to solicit livery and taxicab business from
all persons passing to or from trains in the Union Station,
and agrees in its turn to provide a service sufficient in
the judgment of the Terminal Company to accommodate
persons using the Station, and is to pay over a certain
percentage of the gross receipts. It may be assumed
that a person taking a taxicab at the station would control the whole vehicle both as to contents, direction, and
time of use, although not, so far as indicated, in such a
sense as to make the driver of the machine his servant,
according to familiar distinctions. The last facts however
appear to be immaterial and in no degree to cast doubt
upon the plaintiff's taxicabs when employed as above
stated being a public utility by ancient usage and understanding, Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 113, 125, as well as
common carriers by the manifest meaning of the act.
The plaintiff is 'an agency for public use for the conveyance of persons' &c.; and none the less that it only conveys one group of customers in one vehicle. The exception of the Terminal Company from the definition of
common carriers does not matter. The plaintiff is not
its servant and does not do business in its name or on its
behalf. It simply hires special privileges and a part of
the Station for business of its own.
The next item of the plaintiff's business, constituting
about a quarter, is under contracts with hotels, by which
it agrees to furnish enough taxicabs and automobiles
within certain hours reasonably to meet the needs of the
hotel, receiving the exclusive right to solicit in and about

TERMINAL TAXICAB CO. v. DIST. OF COL.
241 U. S.

255

Opinion of the Court.

the hotel, but limiting its service to guests of the hotel.
We do not perceive that this limitation removes the public
character of the service, or takes it out of the definition
in the act. No carrier serves all the public. His customers
are limited by place, requirements, ability to pay and
other facts. But the public generally is free to go to
hotels if it can afford to, as it is free to travel by rail, and
through the hotel door to call on the plaintiff for a taxicab.
We should hesitate to believe that either its contract or
its public duty allowed it arbitrarily to refuse to carry
a guest upon demand. We certainly may assume that
in its own interest it does not attempt to do so. The
service affects so considerable a fraction of the public
that it is public in the same sense in which any other may
*be called so. German Alliance Ins. Co. v. Kansas, 233
U. S. 389. The public does not mean everybody all the
time. See Peck v. Tribune Co., 214 U. S. 185, 190.

The rest of the plaintiff's business, amounting to fourtenths, consists mainly in furnishing automobiles from
its central garage on orders, generally by telephone. It
asserts the right to refuse the service and no doubt would
do so if the pay was uncertain, but it advertises extensively
and, we must assume, generally accepts any seemingly
solvent customer. Still, the bargains are individual, and
however much they may tend towards uniformity in
price probably have not quite the mechanical fixity of
charges that attends the use of taxicabs from the Station
and hotels. There is no contract with a third person to
serve the public generally. The question whether as to
this part of its business it is an agency for public use within
the meaning of the statute is more difficult. Whether
it is or not, the jurisdiction of the Commission is established by what we have said, and it would not be necessary
to decide the question if the bill, in addition to an injunction against taking jurisdiction, did not pray that Order
No. 44 of the Commission be declared void. That order,

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

after declaring that the plaintiff was engaged in the business of a common carrier within the meaning of the act
and so was within the jurisdiction of the Commission,
required the plaintiff to furnish the information called for
in a circular letter of April 12, 1913. What this information was does not appear with technical precision, but we
assume that it was in substance similar to a later requirement of a schedule showing all rates and charges in force
for any service performed by the plaintiff within the
District or any service in connection therewith. If we are
right this demand was too broad unless the business from
the garage also was within the act. There is no such connection between the charges for this last and the others as
as there was between the facts required and the business
controlled in Int. Comm. Comm. v. Goodrich Transit Co.,
224 U. S. 194, 211.-Although I have not been able to
free my mind from doubt the Court is of opinion that
this p.rt of the business is not to be regarded as a public
utility. It is true that all business, and for the matter
of that, every life in all its details, has a public aspect,
some bearing upon the welfare of the community in which
it is passed. But however it may have been in earlier
days as to the common callings, it is assumed in our time
that an invitation to the public to buy does not necessarily
entail an obligation to sell. It is assumed that an ordinary
shop keeper may refuse his wares arbitrarilyto a customer
whom he dislikes, and although that consideration is not
conclusive, German Alliance Ins. Co. v. Kansas, 233 U. S.
389, 407, it is assumed that such a calling is not public as
the word is used. In the absence of clear language to the
contrary it would be assumed that an ordinary livery stable
stood on the same footing as a common shop, and there
seems to be no difference between the plaintiff's service
from its garage and that of a livery stable. It follows that
the plaintiff is not bound to give information as to its
garage rates.

AMERICAN WELL WORKS v. LAYNE.
241 U. S.

Syllabus.

Complaint is made that jurisdiction has not been assumed over some other concerns that stand on the same
footing as the plaintiff. But there can be no pretence that
the act is a disguised attempt to create preferences or
that the principle of Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356,
applies. The ground alleged by the Commission is that
it did not consider that the omitted concerns did business
sufficiently large in volume to come within the meaning
of the act. There is nothing to impeach the good faith
of the Commission or to give the plaintiff just cause for
complaint. The decree so far as it asserts the jurisdiction
of the Commission is affirmed, but it must be modified
so as to restrain an inquiry into the rates charged by the
plaintiff at its garage, or the exercise of jurisdiction over
the same.
Decree modified as above set forth.

AMERICAN WELL WORKS COMPANY v. LAYNE
AND BOWLER COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 376.

Argued.May 5, 1916.-Decided May 22, 1916.

A suit for damages to business caused by a threat to sue under the
patent law is not in itself a suit under the patent law, of which the
state court cannot take jurisdiction.
Whether a wrong is committed by one making statements to effect
that an article sold by another infringes the former's patent depends
upon the law of the State where the act is done and not upon the
patent law of the United States; and, in this case held that the state

court had jurisdiction of a suit for libel or slander based on such
statements.

