CUBBINS v. MISSISSIPPI RIVER COMM'N.
241 U. S.

351

Syllabus.

provided with automatic couplers and were used only
on the one day because of unusually heavy traffic. But
this merely asserts that the statute may be violated with
impunity if only the railroad finds its provisions onerous
or deems itexpedient to do so.
2. It is contended that error was committed in rejecting
the testimony of experts offered by the Railroad Company
as to the protection afforded to employ6s by the openings
in the buffers at the ends of the twelve cars. Without
stopping to point out the inappositeness of the many
authorities cited in support of the contention, we think
the court was clearly right in holding that the question
was not one for experts and that the jury after hearing
the testimony and inspecting the openings were competent
to determine the issue, particularly in view of the full
and clear instruction given on the subject concerning
which no complaint is made.
Affirmed.
MR. JusTice MCREYNOLDS took no part in the consideration and decision of this case.

CUBBINS v. MISSISSIPPI RIVER COMMISSION.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF MISSISSIPPI.No. 299.

Argued April 24, 1916.-Decided June 5, 1916.

Quarre, Whether a suit against the members of the. Mississippi River
Commission to enjoin them from constructing levees is not really i
suit against the United States of which the courts haveno jurisdiction without its consent.
An owner of land fronting on the Mississippi River has no right to

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Statement of the Case.

241 U. S.

complain of the overflow of his land caused by the building of levees
along the banks of the river for the purpose of confining the water
in times of flood within the river and preventing it from spreading
out from the river into and over the alluvial valley through which
the river flows to its destination, although keeping the water within
the river is to so increase its volume as to raise its level and cause
the overflow complained of..
The general right to an unrestrained flow of rivers and streams and the
duty not to unduly deflect or change the same by works constructed
for individual benefit, qualified by a limitation as to accidental and
extraordinary floods, prevail under the Roman Law and also exist
in England, and, notwithstanding some contrariety and confusion
in adjudged cases, also in this country.
The overflows of the Mississippi River, which the levees objected to
by the complainant are designed to prevent, are accidental and
extraordinary, and justify the construction of the levees for the
purpose of preventing destruction to the valley of the river.
The conditions existing in the valley of the river demonstrate that the
work of the Mississippi River Commission, and of the various state
commissions, in constructihg the series of levees from Cairo to the
Gulf is for the purpose of prevention of destruction and improvement
of navigation by confining the river to its bed and is not for purposes
of reclamation.
Congress had power to create the Mississippi River Commission and
through it to build levees to improve the navigation of the Mississippi River, and the Government does not become responsible to
riparian owners for the deflection of water by reason of such levees.
The rights of riparian owners on opposite sides of a stream embrace
the authority of both, without -giving rise to legal injury to the
other, to protect themselves from the harm resulting from ,the ccidental or extraordinary floods, such as occur in the Mississippi
River, by building levees if they so desire. Jackson.v. United States,
230'U. S. 1.
There is no identity between the great valley of the Mississippi and
the flood bed of that river, but the bafik of that river is where it is
found and does not extend over a vast and imaginary area. Hughes
v. United States, 230 U. S. 24.

THE facts, which involve the rights of riparian owners
on the Mississippi River and the power of the Federal
and state Governments to construct levees along the same
and liability resulting therefrom, are stated in the opinion.

CUBBINS v. MISSISSIPPI RIVER COMM'N.
241 U. S.

353

Argument for Appellant.

Mr. Barnette E. TM oses for appellant:
The right of the Levee District, for the reclamation of
lands, to construct levees which have the effect of obstructing the natural flow and turning the water upon the
lands of an owner on the opposite side of the river, is
not a local question; but is one of general law, on which
decisions of the state courts are not binding on the Federal
courts. Cairo & ChicagoRy. v: Brevoort, 62 Fed. Rep. 129;
Hollingsworth v. Tensas Commissioners, 17 Fed. Rep. 115.
The construction of works, for the improvement of
navigation, is an exercise of the power of eminent domain,
and the owner of private property taken for that purpose
must be compensated. United States v. Lynah, 188 U. S.
445; Armond v. Green Bay Co., 31 Wisconsin, 316; King v.
United :.States, 59 Fed. Rep. 9; Williams v. United States,
104 Fed. Rep. 50; Carlson v. St. Louis River Co., 73 Minnesota, 1128; Velte v. United States, 76 Wisconsin, 278;
Desty, Fed. Const. 322.
The construction of levees for reclamation of lands from
overflow, although referable in a certain sense to the police
power, is likewise an exercise of the power of eminent
domain, and the owner of property taken for such purpose must be compensated therefor. Reelfoot Levee v.
Dawson, 97 Tennessee, 172; Chicot County Levee v. Crittenden, 94 Fed. Rep. 613; Head v. Amoskeag Mfg. Co., 113
U. S. 9; Hughes v. Levee Commissioners, 27 So. Rep. 744;
Ex parte Martin, 13 Arkansas, 198; Carlson v. St. Francis
Levee, 59 Arkansas, 513. See also Eldrige v. Trezevant,
160 U. S. 452; Bass v. State, 43 La. Ann. 494.
An owner of land on one side of a stream has no right
to build levees upon his side which will prevent the escape
of flood water, in times of ordinary flood, over his side and
cast them upon land on the opposite side. Cases supra
and see also Rex v. Trafford, 20 Eng. C. L. R. 498; Paine
Lumber Co. v. United States, 55 Fed. Rep. 854; Woodruff
v. N. B. G. M. Co., 18 Fed. Rep. 782, 797; Jones v. United

354

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Argument for Appellant.

241 U. S.

States, 48 Wisconsin, 385; Burwell v. Hobson, 12 Gratt.
322 O'Connell v. E. T. Va. & Ga. R. R., 87 Georgia, 246,
261j Garnishv. Clough, 48 N. H. 9; Parker v. Atchison, 48
Pac. Rep. 631, 632; Shane v. Kans. City, St. Jos. R. R.,
71 Missouri, 237; Gulf R. R. v. Clark, 2 Ind. Ter. 319;
Barden v. Portage, 79 Wisconsin, 126; Crawford v. Rumbo,
44 Oh. St. 279; Sullivan v. Dooley, 31 Tex. Civ. App. 589;
Byrd v. Blessing, 11 Oh. St. 362; Myers v. St. Louis, 8
Mo. App. 266; Menzies v. Breadalbane,3 Bligh, N. S. 414,
423; Rix v. Johnson, 5 N. H. 520; Jones v. Soulard, 24
How. 41; Adams v. Frothingham, 3 Massachusetts, 352;
Rex v. Yarborough, 3 B. & C. 91; Scranton v. Brown, 4
B. & C. 485; Gould on Waters, § 209.
For what constitutes a "taking" of property see Pumpelly v. Green Bay Co., 13 Wall. 166; United States v.
Lynah, 188 U. S. 445; Boston & R. M. Co. v. Norman, 12
Pick. 467; Hooker v. N. H. & M. Co., 14 Connecticut, 146,
160; King v. United States, 59 Fed. Rep. 9; Lowndes v.
United States, 105 Fed. Rep. 836; United States v. Great
Falls Mfg. Co., 112 U. S. 645; High Bridge Lumber Co. v.
United States, 69 Fed. Rep. 326; Paine Lumber Co. v.
United States, 55 Fed. Rep. 854; Jones v. United States,
48 Wisconsin, 385; Velte v. United States, 76 Wisconsin,
2'f8; United States v. Welch, 217 U. S. 333; Grizzard v.
United States, 219 U. S. 180; United States v. Sewell, 217
U. S. 601; Monongahela Nay. Co. v. United States, 148
U. S. 312, 336;-Scranton v. Wheeler, 179 U. S. 141, 153;
United Stat&-v. Chandler-Dunbar Water Power Co., 229
U. S. 70; Jackson v. United States, 234 U. S. 115; C., B. &
Q. R. R. v. -Illinois Drainage Commrs., 200 U. S. 593;
McKenzie '. Miss. & R. Boom Co., 29 Minnesota, 288;
Manigault v. Spring, 199 U. S. 485; Bierer v. Hurst, 155
Pa. St. 523; 26 At. Rep. 742.
The term, natural conditions, is applicable to and
should be considered in connection *ith the ordinary
high water stage of the river, as well as the low water

CUBBINS v. MISSISSIPPI RIVER COMM'N.
241 U. S.

355

Argument for Appellant.

stage thereof, in determining the questions in the cases at
bar. Burwell v. Hobson, 12 Gratt. 322; S. C., 65 Am. Dec.
247; Angell, Water Courses, § 333; Rex v. Trafford, 20
Eng. C. L. 726; Cairo, V. & C. R. R. v. Brevoort, 62 Fed.
Rep. 129.
Those who were the first to disturb natural conditions,
by building a levee cannot recover when a levee was built
by others an the opposite bank, even though the Jackson
levee and land were thereby destroyed. Avery v. Empire
Co., 82 N. Y. 582; Menzies v. Breadalbane, 3 Bligh, N. S.
421; Wilhelm v. Burleyson, 106 N. Car. 381; Davis v.
Munro, 66 Michigan, 485; Harding v. Whitney, 40 Indiana, 379; Am. & Eng. Enc. of Law, Vol. XXX, 2d ed.,
page 387.
The term consequential damages has been used in
applying the comprehensive rule stated by counsel, to
designate injuries which, in fact, did not amount to a
"material impairment" of the value of land. Gibson v.
United States, 166 U. S. 269; TransportationCo. v. Chicago,
99 U. S. 635.
The permanency of the injury. has been expressly
treated as one of the determining factors in considering
this question. Hollingsworth v. Tensas Comms., 17 Fed.
Rep. 115; Cumberland Co. v. Hitchings, 55 Maine, 140;
Bedford v. United States, 192 U. S. 225.
As a matter of law, injuries resulting from work done by
the Government, for which immunity from liability was
claimed, regardless of the facts as to proximate cause, or
the nature of the injury, has been expressly repudiated by
this court. United States v. Lynah, supra; Monongahela
Nay. Co. v. United States, supra; Scranton v. Wheeler,
upra.
Intervention of natural forcesas the direct causes of the
injuries, made those injuries remote or consequential, in
so far as the work of the Government was concerned and
there was, therefore, no liability on its part. Barnes v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Argument for Appellant.

241 U. S.

Marshall, 10 Pac. Rep. 115; Bedford v. United States, 192
U. S. 225; Gulf, C. & C. Ry. v. Clarke, 101 Fed. Rep. 678.
No provision for compensation is made by the state
acts for the land of appellant; and such provision is an
indispensable requisite to their constitutionality. Sweet
v. Rechel, 159 U. S. 380; Head v. Amoskeag Mfg. Co., 113
U. S. 9; Adirondack R. R. v. New York, 176 U. S. 335;
Cherokee Nation v. So. Kans. Ry., 135 U. S. 541; Benedict
v. City, 39 C. C. A. 290; Gardner v. Newburgh, 2 Johns.
Ch. (N. Y.) 162; Ex parte Martin, 13 Arkansas, 198;
Bloodgood v. M. & H. Ry., 18 Wend. (N. Y.) 9; Meriwether
v. St. FrancisLevee, 91 C. C. A. 285.
Compensation must be paid before the property is taken
or within a reasonable time thereafter.
The constitutional provision requiring compensation
is merely declaratory of the common law, and the right
to compensation was recognized before the Constitution.
Statonv. N. & C. R., 17 L. R. A. 839; Gardnerv. Newburgh,
supra; Withers v. Buckley, 20 How. 84; Kaukena &c. Ry. v.
Canal Co., 142 U. S. 254; Sinnickson v. Johnson, 17 N.
J. L. 129.
Taking private property without compensation is a
deprivation thereof without due process of law. Cooley,
Const. Lim., p. 357; Muhlker v. New York & H. R. R. R.,
197 U. S. 544; Pumpelly v. Green Bay & M. Co., supra;
Scott v. Toledo, 39 Fed. Rep. 385.
Under such conditions the Statute of Limitations does
not begin to run until the injury has been consummated.
King v. United States, 59 Fed. Rep. 9; Rev. Stat., § 1069;
Sloggy v. Dilworth, 8 A. S. R. 658; Del. & Rariton Land v.
Wright, 21 N. J. L. 469; Gould on Waters, §§ 412, 414.
Appellant has not been guilty of such laches that a
court of equity would deny him relief on that ground.
United States v. Great Falls Mfg. Co., 112 U. S. 645; Harlow v. C. & W. Canal, 18 Oh. St. 179; New York v. Pine,
1§5 U. S. 93, 97.

CUBBINS v. MISSISSIPPI RIVER COMM'N.
241 U. S.

357

Argument for Appellee.

Appellant had no knowledge or reason to believe that
the injury would occur, in the case at bar, until it actually
happened and this suit was filed within one year thereafter.
There can be no legislation by estoppel. Estoppel
cannot give validity to void acts. Ottawa v. Perkins,
94 U. S. 267; O'Brien v. Wheelock, 184 U. S. 489.
Equity will enjoin a trespass or nuisance, such as is
alleged, where the injury is irreparable and the remedy
at law is inadequate, without regard to the solvency of
the wrongdoer.
Various contingencies may arise in particular cases,
to render the injury irreparable and the remedy at law
inadequate.
The injury may be destructive of the very substance
of the estate. It may not be susceptible of estimation
in terms of money.
It may be vexatiously repeated or continuous, necessitating a multiplicity of suits.
The suit is not a suit against the State, within the meaning of the Eleventh Amendment. Osborn v. Bank, 9
Wheat. 738; Hopkins v. Clemson College, 221 U. S. 646;
Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466.
Public policy, though favoring the construction of
levees for the purposes of the appellees, is not opposed
to the compensation of appellants for the taking of his
property as a direct and proximate result of such improvements.
Public policy is determined, primarily, by the
Constitution. Vidal v. Girard, 2 How. 127; Missouri v.
Illinois, 180 U. S. 208.
Mr. Gerald FitzGerald for Yazoo-Mississippi Delta
Levee Board, appellee.
The Solicitor General, with whom Mr. Robert Szold was
on the brief, for Mississippi River Commission, appellee:

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

Complainant's bill is altogether lacking in equity.
If plaintiff is entitled to any relief his remedy at law
is adequate. United States v. Lynah, 188 U. S. 445.
The suit is brought against the United States without
its consent. Louisiana v. McAdoo, 234 U. S. 627.
The great public interests involved require denial of
the injunction. Beasley v. Tex. & Pac. Ry., 191 U. S.
492, 497, 498.
Complainant is entitled to no recovery at law, because
his damages are remote and consequential. The authorities are conclusive. Bedford v. United States, 192
U. S. 217; Jackson v. United States, 230 U. S. 1; Hughes v.
United States, 230 U. S. 24.
In support of the contentions of the Government, see
also Crozier v. Krupp, 224 U. S. 290; Gibson v. United
States, 166 U. S. 269; Greenleaf Lumber Co. v. Garrison,
237 U. S. 251; Manigault v. Springs, 199 U. S. 473; New
York v. Pine, 185 U. S. 93; Scranton v. Wheeler, 179 U.
S. 141; TransportationCo. v. Chicago, 99 U. S. 635; Williams v. Parker, 188 U. S. 491; Willink v. United States,
240 U. S. 572.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the

court.
The conditions out of which this controversy arises are
substantially the same as those which we relied upon in
Jackson v. United States, 230 U. S. 1. We therefore here
make a briefer statement of the topography of the country
with which the case is concerned and of "he other general
conditions involved than we would do if such were not
the case, since if a fuller statement as to any particular
aspect is desired, it can be readily found by a reference
to the report of that case.
The complainant as the owner of a piece of land on the
east bank of the Mississippi River adjacent to Memphis,

CUBBINS v. MISSISSIPPI RIVER COMM'N.
241 U. S.

359

Opinion of the Court.

Tennessee, on his own behalf and on behalf of others
owning similar land in the same locality, commenced this
suit against the Mississippi River Commission and fifteen
local State Levee Boards operating on the river between
Cape Girardeau, Missouri, and the mouth of the river
at the Gulf of Mexico, three of these boards being organized under the laws of Missouri, four under the law of
Arkansas, one under that of Tennessee, one under the
law of Mississippi and six under the law of Louisiana.
It was alleged that in flood seasons when the water in
the Mississippi River rose above its natural low water
banks, such water would flow out and over the vast basins
in which the alluvial valley between Cape Girardeau
and the gulf formed itself and would then either by percolation gradually flow back into the river or be carried
over and through the basins by the streams flowing
through them into the Gulf of Mexico where such streams
emptied. It was further alleged that the land of the complainant, when the river in the flood periods was thus
permitted to discharge its waters, was so situated that it
was beyond the reach of overflow from the river. It was
then alleged that in 1883 the Mississippi River Commission
acting under the authority of Congress had devised a plan
known as the Eads Plan by which it was contemplated
that on both banks of the river, except at certain places
which were stated, a line of embankment or levees would
be built which in times of high water or flood would hold
the water relatively within the lines of the low water
banks, thus improving navigation by causing the water
to deepen the bed, and saving the country behind the
levees from inundation. It was averred that to further
this plan the various state levee boards which were made
defendants were organized and that all of them within the
scope of their power and the limits of their financial ability
had aided in carrying on this work and that as the result
of their work and of the levees built by the Mississippi

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U.S.

River Commission it had come to pass that from Cairo
to the Gulf, a distance of about 1,050 miles, on both sides
of the river, except at points which were stated, there was
q continuous line of levees restraining the water from flowiiag out into the basins as above stated and which in many
instances cut off the outlets connecting the streams which
drained the basins and ultimately carried off the water
to the Gulf. It was charged that this line of levees as a
whole had been virtually adopted by the Mississippi
River Commission, which body had assumed control of
the whole subject, and that such body and all the state
agencies co6perating were engaged in strengthening, elevating, renewing, repairing and increasing the lines of
levee so as to more effectually accomplish the purpose
in view.
It was charged "that the effect of the closing by the
defendants of the natural outlets along the said river,
and the confining of the flood waters between the levee
system as a whole is to obstruct the natural high water
flow of the water of said river in and along its natural
bed for its entire length, thereby raising the level of the
water to such an extent that said flood waters, within the
last five years, have attained a sufficient height to flow
over complainant's land, and. when there is now a high
water stage in said river, the waters of said river accumulate, flow over and remain standing upon and over
said lands of complainant to a depth of from four to eight
feet, so that complainant is now being interrupted in
the profitable use, occupation and enjoyment of his said
land." And it was further alleged that "said land is
being covered with superinduced additions of. sand, silt
and gravel, now from six inches to three feet in depth;
the houses and fences thereon are being washed away,
rendering the said land and the houses thereon unfit for
occupancy, driving away the tenants, doing irreparable
harm and injury to said land, impairing its usefulness,

CUBBINS v. MISSISSIPPI RIVER COMM'N.
241 U. S.

361

Opinion of the Court.

causing the practical destruction thereof, and destroyingit market value."
It was averred that to obstruct the river-:as alleged
was a violation of the legal rights of the complainant
since he was entitled to the natural flow of the river within
its natural high or low water bed free from interference
by the acts of the defendants. Averring that no proceedings had been taken to expropriate the land and that no
offer to pay for the same had been made and that the
acts complained of constituted a taking without compensation in violation of due process of law under the
Constitution of the United States, and that there was no
adequate remedy at law, the prayer was for an injunction against the Mississippi River Commission and all its
officers, employees, agents and contractors, wherever
found, and against all the local levee boards and their
officers, employees, agents and contractors, perpetually
prohibiting them from further building any levees, from enlarging, strengthening, repairing or doing any act to maintain the levees already built and for general relief.
The bill was amended by alleging that the overflow
of complainant's land as averred instead of having happened within five years had occurred within one year,
and the original prayer was added to by asking that if it
was found that the injunction prayed could not be granted,
the case be transferred from the equity to the law side
and be converted into a law action to recover from the
Yazoo-Mississippi Delta Levee Board, the local Mississippi board which alone of the defendants had been
served, the sum of five hundred thousand dollars as the
value of the plantation alleged to have been wrongfully
taken.
A motion by that corporation was made to dismiss the
bill on the ground that it stated no basis for relief, and in
any event it alleged no ground for equitable jurisdiction
since at best upon the theory that a cause of action was

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

stated, there was plainly an adequate remedy at law. On
the hearing the motion to dismiss was joined in by the
Mississippi River Commission, and the case is here as the
result of the action of the court below in dismissing the
bill for want of equity.
At the threshold we put out of view as primarily negligible contentions as to whether in any event, in view of
the Vast public interests which would have been detrimentally affected, the injunction prayed could have been
granted, and whether the suit should not have been dismissed so far as the Mississippi River Commission was
concerned on the ground that it was really a suit against
the United States without its consent and not a mere
action against individuals acting as officers to prevent
them from violating the rights of the complainant by
taking his property without compensation. We say these
contentions are negligible because underlying them all is
the fundamental issue whether under the averments of the
bill there was any right to relief whatever, and to that
decisive question we come. Its solution involves deciding
whether the complainant as an owner of land fronting on
the river had a right to complain of the building of levees
along the banks of the river for the purpose of containing
the water in times of flood within the river and preventing
it from spreading out from the river into and over the
alluvial valley through which the river flows to its destination in the Gulf, even although it resulted that the effect
of thus keeping the water within the river was by increasing its volume to so raise its level as to cause it to overflow
the complainant's land.
While we are of the opinion that in substance a negative
answer to the propbsition must fQllow from applying to
this case the doctrines which were upheld in Jackson v.
United States, 230 U. S. 1, and Hughes v. United States, id.,
p. 24, as the unsoundness of the distinctions attempted in
the argument to be drawn between those cases and this,

CUBBINS v. MISSISSIPPI RIVER COMM'N.
241 U. S.

363

Opinion of the Court.

and the decisive application of, those cases to this, will be
more readily appreciated by a recurrence to the legal
principles by which the controversy is to be governed, we
address ourselves to that subject, looking at it in a twofold aspect: First, with reference to the rights and obligations of the land owners and the power of the State to deal
with the subject; and Second, with referenceto the power
of the United States to erect levees to confine the water for
the purpose of improving navigation as superimposed on
the right of the land owners or that of the state authorities
to construct such levees, if such right obtains, and if not,
as independently existing in virtue of the dominant power
to improve navigation vested in Congress under the Constitution.
1. Without seeking to state or embrace the whole field
of the Roman law concerning the flow of water, whether
surface or subterranean, or to trace the general differences
between that law, if any, as it existed in the ancient law of
the Continent of Europe whether customary or written, or
as it prevailed in France prior to, and now exists in, the
Code Napoleon, one thing may be taken as beyond dispute, that not only under the Roman law, but under all
the others the free flow of water in rivers was secured from
undue interruption, and therespective riparian proprietors
in consequence of their right to enjoy the same were protected from undue interference or burden created by
obstructions to the flow, by deflections in its course, or
any other act limiting the right to enjoy the flow or causing
additional burdens by changing it. But while this was
universally true, a limitation to the rule was also universally recognized by which individuals in case of accidental
or extraordinary -floods were entitled to erect such works
as would protect them from the consequences of the flood
by restraining the same, and that no other riparian owner
was entitled to complain of such action upon the ground of
injury inflicted thereby because all, as the result of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

accidental and extraordinary condition, were entitled to
the enjoyment of the common right to construct works for
their own protection.
Demolombe after commenting upon Article 640 of the
Code Napoleon generally dealing with the servitudes
arising from the flow of water, and pointing out that under
the Roman law as well as under the ancient French law
and the Code Napoleon it was the duty of proprietors
whose lands bordered upon or were traversed by rivers to
permit the water of such rivers to flow their natural course
unimpeded and quoting the Roman law, "fluminis naturalem cursum non avertere" (L. 1, Cod. de Alluvionibus),
additionally states that under both the Roman and ancient
law and under the Code Napoleon such proprietors were
bound "to undertake to do no work the result of which
would be to change the direction of the stream or enlarge
its bed or to injure in any manner other proprietors whose
lands border upon or are traversed by the stream,"
(Demolombe, vol. 11, No. 30, p. 36). But the author
at once proceeds to add that the principles thus stated in
no way serve to prevent or to limit the right of proprietors
whose lands border on or are traversed by rivers "from
guaranteeing themselves against damage by defensive
works constructed either upon the border of the rivers or
in the interior of their property against either the permanent and insensible action of the rivers or streams or
particularly against the damage caused by the accidental
or extraordinary overflow of their banks; 'Ripam suam
adversus rapidi amnis impetum munire prohibitum non est.'
(L. 1 Cod de Alluv.)" And proceeding, the author states
that this right of the proprietors undoubtedly exists" even
when the effect of the dykes or other works done will be,
as is nearly always the case, to render the waters of the
river more hostile and damaging to other properties, the
owners of which would have no cause of complaint because each one is entitled to do the same in his own behalf,

CUBBINS v. MISSISSIPPI RIVER COMM'N.
241 U. S.

365

Opinion of the Court.

as the right of preservation and of legitimate defense is
reciprocal since it is impossible to conceive that the law
would impose upon the proprietors bordering upon streams
an obligation to suffer their property to be devoured [by
accidental or extraordinary overflows] without the power
on their part to do anything to protect themselves against
the disaster." Proceeding to elucidate and state the
limitations by which the right thus universally recognized
is safeguarded, the author says: "It is necessary, however,
that the works constructed [for the purposes. stated] do
not encroach upon the natural bed of the water courses,
that they should be of course constructed in conformity
to the police regulations, if any exist, and finally that they
are in fact constructed by those who build them for the
defense of their own property, because constructions
would not be tolerated which had been erected by a proprietor upon his own land without any necessity whatever
for his own protection, but with the only and disloyal purpose of injuring the property of others." Demolombe
further states: "What I have just said of streams and
rivers is equally applicable to accidental torrents of water
which like avalanches may sometimes precipitate themselves upon certain properties. Such a case is likewise
one of vis major against which each one has a right by the
natural law on his own behalf to seek to protect himself
as best he may,-a right which, as well said by the Court
of Aix is like that which obtains to resist the incursion of
an enemy, without being preoccupied as to what may be
the result or the wrong suffered by a neighbor who may
not have had the foresight to successfully avoid the #disaster." The author then proceeds: "These principles
which are sustained both by reason and by conceptions of
equity, have been for all time recognized both in the
Roman law and in our ancient French jurisprudence.
They are to-day supported by the unanimous accord of the
decided cases and of the opinions of authors (comp. L. 2,

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

§ 9, ft. de aqua de aquae; L. unic., ft. de ripa munienda; L. 1,
ff. ne quid in flum. publ.; Coepolla, tract. 2 cap. XXXVIII,
n' 2; Troncon, sur l'art. 225 de la cout. de Paris; Henrys,
liv. IV, tit. II, quaest. 75; Domat, Lois civiles, liv. II, tit.
VIII, sec. III, n) 9; Aix, 19 mai, 1813, Raousset, Sirey,
1814, II, 9; Duranton, t. V, n' 162; Pardessus, t. I, n' 92;
Gamier, t. III, n' 677; Daviel, t. I, nos 384-386, et t. II,
n08 697, 698; Taulier, t. II, p. 361).
See Mailhot v. Pugh, 30 La. Ann. 1359, where some of
the authors referred to by Demoiombe and others are
quoted and one or more of the adjudged French cases enforcing the limitation are stated and commented upon.
That the general right to an unrestrained flow of rivers
and streams and the duty not to unduly deflect or change
the same by works constructed for individual benefit as
qualified by the limitation as to accidental and extraordinary floods which prevailed in. Rome and on the
Continent and which to-day govern in France as stated
by Demolombe, also obtained in Scotland, was recognized in 1741 in the case of Farquharsonv. Farquharson,
Morr. Dic. 12,779. And the character of the limitation
of the rule is well illustrated by Menzies v. Breadalbane,
3 Bligh, (N. S.) 414, (H. L.), where it was held that it did
not apply to a case where a structure was erected in the
established high water channel of a stream. It is apparent
als6, from the opinions in Nield v. London and Northwestern Ry., L. R. 10 Ex. 4; 44 L. J. Ex. 15; and the statement found in Coulson on the Law of Waters (3rd Ed.),
pages 177 et seq., that the limitation as to accidental and
extraordinary overflows likewise exists in England.
In this country it is also certain without going into a
review of decided cases that the limitation is recognized,
although it is true to say that much contrariety and confusion exist in the adjudged cases as to when it is applicable, some cases extending the rule so far as to virtually
render the limitation inoperative, others extending the

CUBBINS v. MISSISSIPPI RIVER COMM'N.
241 U. S.

367

Opinion of the Court.

limitation to such a degree as really to cause it to abrogate.
the rule itself. But into these differences and contrarieties it is not at all necessary to enter, since there is no
decided case, whatever may be the difference as to the
application of the limitation, holding that it does not
exist, and when in fact the very statement of the general
rule requires it to be determined whether that rule as
correctly stated would include situations which the limitation if recognized would exclude. We place in the margin
a few of the many adjudged cases from which the situation just stated will be made manifest. 1
Were the overflows in this case accidental and extraordinary, is then the proposition to which the case reduces itself. That the volume of water from the vast
watershed which the Mississippi River drains and which
by means of percolation and tributaries reach that river,
is susceptible now and again of being so simultaneously
drained off from the watershed into the river and thus
so vastly increasing the amount of water to be carried off
in a given time as to cause the overflow of the valley which
the river traverses and to thereby endanger the enormous
interests concerned, is too well known to require anything
but statement. But that the possibilities of such a result
do not when such overflows occur cause them to be not
accidental is to say the least persuasively established by
the ruling in Viterbo v. Friedlander,120 U. S. 707. And
leaving aside this view, it is obvious from the situation
and the causes which in the nature of things may accidentally bring about the emptying into the river at one and the
same time of the volumes of water from all the vast
sources of supply which drain the expansive watershed
'Burwell v. Hobson, 12 Gratt. (Va. 322); Cairo &c. R. R. v. Brevoort, 62 Fed. Rep. 129; Crawford v. Rambo, 44 Oh. St. 279; O'Connell
v. East Tennessee &c. R. R., 87 Georgia, 246; Taylor v. Fickas, 64
Indiana, 167; Shelbyville Turnpike v. Green, 99 Indiana, 205; Mailhot v.
Pugh, 30 La. Ann. 1359.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

into the river, in the absence of which accidental unison
there could be no flood, that the accidental character of
the unity of the conditions upon which the flood depends
serves to affix that character to the result-the flood itself. But assuming, as we think it must be assumed,
that the words accidental and extraordinary are to be
taken as relating to the river, that is, as alone embracing
conditions not usually there occurring and not ordinary
to the stream in its usual condition having regard to the
flow through its natural bed, whether in high or low water,
that view would be here irrelevant, since there is no suggestion of any bed of the river in high or low water except
the space between the natural banks along which the
levees were built unless the whole valley be considered
as such bed. Indeed from the face of the bill it is apparent
that the rights relied upon were assumed to exist upon the
theory that the valley through which the river travels,
in all its length and vast expanse, with its great population, its farms, its villages, its town, its cities, its schools,
its colleges, its universities, its manufactories, its network of railroads-some of them transcontinental, are
virtually to be considered from a legal point of view as
constituting merely the high water bed of the river and
therefore subject, without any power to protect, to be
submitted to the destruction resulting from the overflow
by the river of its natural banks. In fact the nature of
the assumption upon which the argument rests, is shown
by the contention that the building of the levees under the
circumstances disclosed was a work not of preservation
but of reclamation, that is, a work not to keep the water
within the bed of the river for the purpose of preventing
destruction to the valley lying beyond its bed and banks,
but to reclaim all the vast area of the valley from the peril
to which it was subjected by being situated in the high
water bed of the river. If it were necessary to say anything more to demonstrate the unsoundness of this view,

CUBBINS v. MISSISSIPPI RIVER COMM'N.
241 U. S.

369

Opinion of the Court.

it would suffice to point out that the assumption is wholly
irreconcilable with the settlement and development of
the valley of the river, that it is at war with the action of
all the state governments having authority over the territory, and is a complete denial of the legislative reasons
which necessarily Were involved in the action of Congress
creating the Mississippi River Commission and appropriating millions of dollars to improve the river by building levees along the banks in order to confine the waters
of thc river within its natural banks, and by increasing
the volume of water to improve the navigable capacity
of the river.
2. Although in view of the conclusion just stated it is
unnecessary to refer to the power of Congress to build the
levees under the paramount authority vested in it to improve the navigation of the river, we cannot fail to point
out the complete demonstration which that power affords
of all want of legal responsibility to the complainant for
the building of the levees complained of. In this connection it is to be observed that the complete application
of this power is in the reason of things admitted by the
erroneous assumption upon which alone the arguments
proceed in seeking to avoid the effect of the well defined
limitation as to accidental and extraordinary floods, that
is, the erroneous contention as to the high water bed of
the river which we have disposed of. We say this since
it is apparent that if the property in the valley were to be
treated as in the bed of the river, that would be true also
of the property of the complainant, hence causing it to
come to pass that as to such property so situated there
would be no possible lawful ground of complaint to arise
from the action of Congress in exerting its lawful power
over the bed of the river for the improvement of navigation.
These conclusions dispose of the case without the necessity of recurring, as we proposed at the outset to do,

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

to the rulings in the Jackson and Hughes Case (230 U. S.
1, Id. 24), but in the light of the principles we have stated,
we direct attention to the fact that the attempt to distinguish the Jackson Case upon the ground that relief was
there denied because the proprietor on one side of the
river, who complained of the increase of the flood level
and: injury to his land from-the levees erected on the other
side or from the levee system as a whole, had himself
erected a levee to protect his property and therefore was
estopped, is without foundation. It is plain when the
context of the opinion in the Jackson Case is considered
that the denial of the right to relief in -that case was
rested not upon the conception that a right existing on
one side of the river was destroyed by estoppel and a right
not existing on the other was conferred by the same principle, but upon the broad ground that therights of both
owners on either side embraced the authority without
giving rise to legal injury to the other, to protect themselves from the harm to result from the accidental and
extraordinary floods occurring in the river by building
levees if they so desired. Additionally when the principle laid down in the Jackson Case is illustrated by the
ruling which was made in the Hughes Case, it becomes
apparent that the contention here urged as to the identity
between the great valley and the flood bed of the river
was adversely disposed of, since under no view could the
ruling in the Hughes Case have been made except upon the
theory that the bank of the river was where it was found
and did not extend over a vast and imaginary area.
Affirmed.
MR.

JUSTICE PITNEY

concurs in the result.

