MERRILL-RUCKGABER CO. v. UNITED STATES.
241 U. S.

387

Statement 6f the Case.

opinion, within a few months after the passage of the act
of 1884, that it did not apply to him.
Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS took no part in the con-

sideration or decision of this case.

MERRILL-RUCKGABER COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 281. Argued March 17, 1916.-Decided June 5, 1916.
In construing a contract the court must at first resurt to its words,
but not to one or a few of them, hut to all of them as associated, and
as well to the conditions to which they were addressed and intended
to provide for; one word cannot he made dominant, controlling all
others, and putting out of view the dem'ands of physical condiitions.
In this case held that a contractor was bound to underp~in the walls of
both of two buildings on the linc of the Government's property,
notwithstanding the specification referred to building in the singular and not plural, and the wall of one of the buildings was only
a light or curtain wall.
Under the contract involved in this case, the decision of the supervising architect was made final upon any dispute regarding the
proper interpretation of the specifications, and as the Secretary of
the Treasury sustained the decision, and no foundation appears in
the record for charges of unfairness on the part of the latter, such
decision is final.
49 Ct. Cl. 553, affirmed.

APPELLANT is a. New York corporation.

It filed a

petition in the Court of Claims for the recovery from the
United States of the sum of $4,475.90 for extra work
performed in the construction of the foundation for the

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Statement of the Case.

241 U. S.

extension and remodeling of the United States assay
office in New York. Issue was joined on the petition
and the Court of Claims, after hearing, dismissed it.
49 Ct. Cl. 553.
The facts pertinent to the questions presented, collated
'from the findings, are as follows:
The appellant entered into a contract with the United
States through the proper officers of the latter for the
construction of such foundation for the sum of $79,400.00
in accordance with specifications and drawings prepared
in the office of the Supervising Architect.
The specifications required bidders to visit the site
and fully inform themselves of the character of the same
and the conditions under which the work would have to
be performed and failure to do so, it was provided, would
not relieve the successful bidder from the necessity of
furnishing material or performing any labor that might
be required to complete the work in accordance with the
true intent and meaning of the specifications and drawings
without additional cost to the Government.
The specificationS, it was provided, should supplement
the drawings, and specifications.and drawings were to be
reciprocally explanatory and the decision of the Supervising Architeet as to the proper interpretation of the
drawings and specifications was to be final.
Under the heading "Excavation" it was provided that
"certain portions of old foundation walls, etc., have been
left in place as retaining walls in connection with adjoining buildings; the removal of these walls and the north
wall and so much of the present front building as may be
necessary to install work under this contract and such
other excavation in connection therewith as may be necessary are to be included . . . The walls, etc., will
have to be removed and the excavation made in such manner as not to endanger adjoining property nor prevent
tho occupancy of the present front building, and all neces-

MERRILL-RUCKOABER CO. v. UNITED STATES. 3$9
241 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

sary shoring and underpinning, etc., in connection therewith must be done."
Subsequently the Supervising Architect sent to all
parties from whom proposa6 had been solicited the following addendum amending the foregoing paragraph of
the specifications:
"Bidders are hereby informed that the specification
is to be amended as follows: Page 7, fourth paragraph,
under 'Excavation,' after the clause 'and all necessary
shoring, underpinning, etc., in connection therewith must
be done,' add 'In the case of the building joining the
north line of the site, the underpinning of the main rear
walls must be carried to rock by a method satisfactory
to the Supervising Architect."'
A detailed contract was entered into providing that
the work was to be done in accordance with the specifications and the addendum thereto and the requirements
of certain specified drawings and such other detail drawings and models as might be furnished to appellant by
the Supervising Architect.
It was further provided that changes might be made
in the work and materials when required by the United
States, the value of such work and materials to be determined on the basis of the contract unit of value, at prevailing market rates, such rates, in case of dispute, to be
determined by the Architect, whose decision should be
binding on both parties, and that no claim for damages on
account of such changes or for anticipated profits should
be made or allowed. No claim for extra materials or
work was to be made or allowed unless specifically agreed
upon in writing or directed in writing by the United States.
The assay office extension was located practically in
the middle of the block bounded by Wall, Nassau, Pine
and William Streets and among the buildings surrounding
the site were two on Pine Street numbered 25, 27 and 29.
Number 25 was ten stories and Nos. 27 and 29 (being one

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Statement of the Case.

241 U. S.

building) was thirteen stories above the street, and each
was one story higher at the line of the assay office extension.
Appellant submitted detail drawings showing its proposed method of underpinning and protecting the walls
of the Pine Street buildings. Referring to the drawings
the Architect telegraphed the inquiry why they did "not
show underpinning 25 Pine Street extending to rock,"
to which appellant replied that in accordance with the
addendum to the specifications it understood that the
building referred to meant 27-29 Pine Street as No. 25
Pine Street had no rear wall but simply a light metallic
curtain wall supported on the side walls, and that appellant did not consider there was any rear wall in the building and, therefore, it (appellant) showed the side walls
to be taken care of in the usual manner and believed its
method so provided.
Much correspondence ensued, and finally appellant
was. told that it Was the opinion of the Architect's office
that its letter of the 2nd instant (October, 1909) correctly
set forth the position of the office and that it was of the
opinion the work as therein set forth was required by the
contract and that appellant was not entitled to extra
therefor, and appellant was directed to carry out its contract without further delay in accordance with that letter:
To which appellant replied that the cost of the underpinning to rock of the walls of No. 25 Pine Street would
be $4,800 in addition to the price named in the contract
and concluded as follows:
"'As the contract does not expressly or impliedly
require us to underpin to rock premises 25 Pine Street,
we shall proceed with the work under the contract, taking
necessary steps to protect said premises, but will not
underpin any portion thereof to rock except upon the
understanding that we are to be paid the reasonable cost
thereof, as indicated above.'

MERRILL-RUCKGABER CO. v. UNITED STATES. 391
241 U. S.

Counsel for Parties.

"To which the Supervising Architect replied, on October 30, 1909: 'Your statements are noted and you are
now directed to proceed without further delay to com-'
plete the work in line with office letters of the 2d, 20th
and 26th instants, and without expense to the Government. And you are advised that unless you take action
along this line within a reasonable time consideration will
be given to serving the eight days' notice preparatory
to the Government assuming charge of the work and
completing it at your expense.'
"Upon appeal to the Secretary of the Treasury the
action of the Supervising Architect was ratified, and the
claimant was directed in writing by the Secretary to
proceed with said underpinning in accordance with the
requirements of the Supervising Architect, otherwise the
contract would be completed at claimant's expense.
The claimant did- the work under protest, and completed
it and all of the work under said contract within the time
stipulated in the contract. The actual cost of underpinning to rock said building No. 25 Pine Street was
$4,450. The contractor was paid the full amount of
the contract price, $79,400."
The use of the word "building" in the addendum to
the specifications was the result of a clerical error in the
office of the Supervising Architect. But before submitting a proposal for the work appellant through its
president and agent made an investigation of the site
of the work and the buildings surrounding the site and
ascertained that the rear of both the buildings on Pine
Street adjoined the site on the north.
Mr. John S. Flannery, with whom Mr. Frederic D.
McKenney was on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Huston Thompson for
the United States.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA, after stating

241 U.S.

the case as above,

delivered the opinion of the court.
The case is in narrow compass. It involves for its
solution the construction of a contract, and the rules to
guide such construction we need not rehearse. To its,
words we at first resort, but not to one or a few of them
but to all of them as associated, and as well to the conditions to which they were addressed and intended to provide for. The argument of appellant ignores this rule.
As we shall see, it makes one word dominant, controls
all others by it, and puts out of view the demands of the
physical conditions.
The contract provided that whatever walls would have
to be removed and excavations made would have to be
done in such manner as not to endanger adjoining property, and that all necessary shoring and underpinning, etc.,
in connection therewith had to be done. To this provision
there was subsequently added that "in the case of the
building [italics ours] joining the north line of the site
the underpinning of the main rear walls must be carried
to rock by a method satisfactory to the Supervising
Architect."
But there were two buildings "joining the north line
of the site," and appellant selected one as the full measure
of its obligation to carry the underpinning to rock as
required by the specifications, giving as a reason, in a
communication to the Architect's office, that it did not
consider that there was any rear wall in No. 25 Pine Street,
but only a metallic curtain wall.
The Architect's office was not impressed with the distinction between walls and the selection of one building
joining the north line of the site but insisted that the underpinning of the main rear walls of both of the buildings
joining such line must be carried to rock by a method
satisfactory to the Supervising Architect. Appellant

MERRILL-RUCKGABER CO. v. UNITED STATES. 393
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

filed its appeal to the Secretary of the Treasury, who
affirmed the action of the Architect.
Counsel intimates unfairness on the part of the Supervising Architect, but there is no just foundation for it;
and, besides, there is no attempt to impugn the good faithof the Secretary of the Treasury who sustained the decision of the Architect, and the contract explicitly provides that "the decision of the Supervising Architect as
to the proper interpretation of the drawings and speeifications shall be final." If we may concede to appellant an
ambiguity in the specifications arising from the use of the
singular word "building" instead of the plural word
"buildings" against the material conditions which appellant's officers had inspected aid knew of and against
as well the other parts of the specifications which among
other things call for "rear walls" instead of a "rear wall,"
seemingly implying two buildings and not one only, at the
utmost it could only be said that there was ground for
dispute, and under the contract the decision of the Architect upon the disput was final.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

ation or decision of this case.

took no part in the consider-

