OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

241 U. S.

sought to be enforced against plaintiff in error the act in
question infringes no provision of the Federal Constitution. The charge relates only to the plainly mischievous
action denounced by § 6. Provisions of § 5 in respect
of fees to be demanded or retained are severable from
other portions of the act and, we think, might be eliminated without destroying it. Their validity was not
passed upon by the Supreme Court of the State and has
not been considered by us.
The judgment of the court below is
Affirmed.

SPOKANE & INLAND EMPIRE RAILROAD COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 136. Submitted December 15, 1915.-Decided June 5, 1916.
Exceptions from the general policy which the law embodies are to be
strictly construed, hnd are to be so interpreted as not to destroy the
remedial purpose intended.
The exception contained in § 6 of the Safety Appliance Act of March 2,
1893, as amended April 1, 1896, and March 2, 1903, exempting from
its operation cars which are used upon street railways, does not
exempt cars used in regular interstate traffic which are also to some
extent used on street railways. Such cars are covered by the general
provisions of the statute.
Cars used on an electric railway doing an interstate business on a
standard gauge track according to standard railroad rules held, in
this case, to be subject to the Safety Appliance Acts in regard to
grab-irons and hand-holds, notwithstanding they were used at the
terminals of the roads upon street railways.
The Safety Appliance Acts may not be violated with impunity by
omitting grab-irons and hand-holds from cars because the railroad

SPOKANE & INLAND R. R. v. UNITED STATES.
241 U. S.

345

Opinion of the Court.

company operati.g them deems the provisions of the act onerous or
because it considers that it has adopted methods to protect the employees in coupling ttie cars that are more expedient than those required by the statute.
Whether methods substituted for grab-irons and hand-holds in coupling cars used in interstate commerce other than those prescribed by
the Safety Appliance Acts offer the same, or better, or adequate
protection to employees, is not a question for expert testimony.
210 Fed. Rep. 243, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the construction of the Safety
Appliance Act and its application to suburban electric
Railroads, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Will G. Graves, Mr. F. H. Graves and Mr. B. H.
Kizer for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Underwood and Mr. John
C. Brooke for the United States.
. MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of tho

court.
The United Stabs brought this suit against the Railroad
Company to recover penalties for fifteen alleged violations
of the Safety Appliance Act. The violations consisted in
hauling in interstate commerce on October 23, 1911, twelve
cars which were not provided with hand-holds or grabirons at the ends, as required by the act, and three cars
which were not equipped with automatic couplers. The
answer admitted that at the time named all fifteen cars
had been used in interstate commerce and that three of
them were not equipped with automatic couplers, but
denied that the other twelve were not provided with
hand-holds or grab-irons as required by the act and denied
that it had in any respect violated the act because all
fifteen cars were used by the company upon its line of
street railway and were therefore expressly excepted from
the operation of the act. A verdict and judgment against

OCTOBER TERM. 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

the company on all fifteen charges was affirmed by the
court below.
We briefly state the material facts. The Railroad Company operated a street railway system in Spokane, Washington, and several interurban electric fines, one of which
extended from Spokane to Coeur d'Alene, Idaho, a distance
of about forty miles. Over this line passenger trains composed of two or more cars were operated starting at a
station near the center of Spokane and running for a mile
and a quarter on the street railway tracks to the, company's
yards near the city limits and thence over its private right
of way to Coeur d'Alene. The road was standard gauge,
with rails of standard weight and the passenger trains were
made up according to standard railroad rules with markers
to designate the trains and were. run on schedules and by
train orders. Passengers traveled on tickets entitling
them to ride to and from designated stations at which
regular stops were made and express matter and baggage
were carried on the passenger trains. The street-car business was entirely separate from that done by the interurban line, the employees of the one having nothing whatever to do with the other, and although stops were made
by interurban trains within the city limits and while on the
street railway tracks, they were made solely for the purpose of taking on and letting off passengers to or from
stations outside the city. In addition to its passenger
trains the interurban line also operated freight trains
which, however, started from the company's yards and
ian directly to Coeur d'Alene and did not therefore enter
upon the street railway tracks.
The fifteen cars here in question were passenger cars
and on the day named were used in passenger trains which
were run from the station in Spokane to the city limits
and thence over the company's right of way to Coeur
d'Alene. Twelve of them (those which it was charged
were not equipped at the ends with grab-irons or hand-

SPOKANE & INLAND R. R. v. UNITED STATES.
241 U. S.

347

Opinion of the Court.

holds) were cars regularly used on the interurban lines
and were rounded at the ends and equipped with radial
couplers to enable the trains to make sharp turns. As the
swinging of these couplers from one side to the other
across the ends of the cars would break off grab-irons of
the type ordinarily used on the ends of cars they were not
used. It was claimed, however, that the requirements
of the Safety Appliance Act with respect to hand-holds
or grab-irons were in substance complied with by a different and what was asserted to be an equivalent appliance,
that is, openings in the top of the buffer or sill extending
across the ends of the cars just above the couplers. To
support this claim the company offered testimony of
experienced railroad men to the effect "that the handholds or grab-irons in the buffers or sills of such cars were
sufficient to protect men who might be required to go
between the cars in coupling or otherwise handling them,
that they were sufficient to accomplish purposes intended
to be accomplished by the provisions of the Safety. Appliance Act requiring hand-holds or grab-irons to be
placed upon the ends of cars used in interstate commerce,
and that they were better than those commonly used
upon cars engaged in interstate commerce." The United
States objected to the introduction of the testimony and
it was excluded on the ground "that it was not a question
for expert testimony, but was a matter of common knowledge." During the trial, (at whose request it does not
appear) the jury were taken to inspect the openings in
some of the cars.
The other three cars were large street cars which were
regularly used only on the street railway tracks, but which
because of unusually heavy traffic on the day named were
coupled together with link and pin couplers and operated
as a train to'Cceur d'Alene.
The assignments of error present two questions which
we consider separately.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

1. It is urged that error was committed in construing
the Safety Appliance Act since, when correctly interpreted, the fifteen cars in question were expressly excepted
from its requirements. To appreciate the contentions
based upon this proposition it is necessary to recur to the
text of the original act and the amendments thereto. By
the act of March 2, 1893, (c. 196, 27 Stat. 531) it was made
unlawful for any common carrier "to haul or permit to be
hauled or used on its line any car used in moving interstate
traffic not equipped with couplers coupling automatically
by impact," (§ 2) or,"to use any car in interstate commerce that is not provided with secure grab irons or hand
holds in the ends and sides of each car for greater security
to men in coupling and uncoupling cars," (§ 4), with the
proviso (§ 6) that the prohibitions of the act should not
apply to "trains composed of four-wheel cars or to locomotives used in hauling such trains." By the act of April 1,
1896 (c. 87, 29 Stat. 85), the proviso of .§6 was amended
as follows: "That nothing in this act contained shall apply
to trains of four-wheel cars or to trains composed of eightwheel standard logging cars . . . or to locomotives
used in hauling such trains when such cars or locomotives
are exclusively used for the transportation of logs." By
the amendment of March 2, 1903 (c. 976, 32 Stat. 943)
the provisions of the act relating to automatic couplers,
grab-irons, etc., were extended and made applicable to
"all trains, locomotives, tenders, cars, and similar vehicles
used on any railroad engaged in interstate commerce, and
in the Territories and the District of Columbia, and to all
other locomotives, tenders, cars, and similar vehicles used
in connection therewith," and to the exceptions from the
requirements of the original act and the Amendment of
1896 were added "trains, cars, and locomotives . .
which are used upon street railways."
The contention is that as the trains in which the fifteen
cars were hauled were operated over the street railway

SPOKANE & INLAND R. R. v. UNITED STATES. 349
241 U. S,.

Opinion of the Court.

tracks from the station in Spokane to the yards of the
company, they were "used upon street railways" and
were hence expressly exempted from the requirements
of the act by the amendment of 1903. This, it is said,
results from the unambiguous text of the exception contained in that amendment and is from a two-fold point of
view made additionally certain by the context of the act
which we have quoted. The argument is that the word
"used" in the amendment of 1903 excepting cars, etc.,
'used upon street railways" must be construed as having
the same significance as the same word in the amendment
making the act applicable to all cars, etc., "used on any
railroad engaged in interstate commerce." From this
premise it is insisted that as the Jatter provision has been
construed as enlarging the scope of the act by causing
it to embrace all cars used on interstate commerce railroads although at the particular time the cars are employed in intrastate commerce (Southern Railway v.
United States, 222 U. S. 20), it must follow that the word
"used" in the street railway excepting clause under consideration must have the same construction and therefore
exclude from the operation of the act all cars used upon
street railways, however temporary such use and however
frequent or material may be their use in interstate commerce on other than street railways. Again it is urged
that the judgment of the court below can be affirmed only
by construing the word "used" in the exception as meaning exclusively used,--a construction which, it is said,
would be wholly unwarranted in view of the amendment
of 1896 excepting from the act certain cars, etc., "exclusively used for the transportation of logs" and the demonstration thereby afforded that if such a meaning
had been contemplated by Congress in the amendment
of 1903, the word "exclusively" would have been employed. But we think the want of merit in the contentions is clear and the unsoundness of the argument ad-

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

vanced to sustain them apparent. We say this because
while it is conceded that the obvious purpose of Congress
in enacting the law and its amendments was to secure
the safety of railroad employees, and that the amendment
of 1903 sought to enlarge *and make that purpose more
complete, yet it is insisted that the exception in the act
should receive such a broad construction as would destroy
the plain purpose which caused the act to be adopted.
But to so treat the act would be in plain disregard of the
elementary rule requiring that exceptions from a general
policy which a law embodies should be strictly construed,
that is, should be so interpreted as not to destroy the
remedial processes intended to be accomplished by the
enactment. That the meaning contended for would be in
direct conflict with this rule would seem free from doubt,
since the inevitable result of sustaining the contention
would be to put it in the power of a railroad by operating
a train for a trifling distance over tracks within the exception to thereby secure the right thereafter to operate
such train over long distances without regard to compliance with the safeguards of the statute which otherwise
would be controlling. And this reasoning disposes of the
contention deduced from the use of the word "exclusively" in the provision excepting cars used on logging
railroads and its absence in the street railway clause,
since on the face of the statute the object of both provisions was to exempt both the logging and street railway
cars from the operation of the act only when used for
logging on the one hand and on street railways on the
other, and not to exempt them when not so used.
The suggestion is made in argument that in any event
the railroad company was not liable for the penalties because of the difficulty of equipping the twelve cars with
grab-irons which would not interfere with the lateral
movement of the radial couplers and because the other
three cars Were so constructed that they could not be

CUBBINS v. MISSISSIPPI RIVER COMM'N.
241 U. S.

351

Syllabus.

provided with automatic couplers and were used only
on the one day because of unusually heavy traffic. But
this merely asserts that the statute may be violated with
impunity if only the railroad finds its provisions onerous
or deems itexpedient to do so.
2. It is contended that error was committed in rejecting
the testimony of experts offered by the Railroad Company
as to the protection afforded to employ6s by the openings
in the buffers at the ends of the twelve cars. Without
stopping to point out the inappositeness of the many
authorities cited in support of the contention, we think
the court was clearly right in holding that the question
was not one for experts and that the jury after hearing
the testimony and inspecting the openings were competent
to determine the issue, particularly in view of the full
and clear instruction given on the subject concerning
which no complaint is made.
Affirmed.
MR. JusTice MCREYNOLDS took no part in the consideration and decision of this case.

CUBBINS v. MISSISSIPPI RIVER COMMISSION.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF MISSISSIPPI.No. 299.

Argued April 24, 1916.-Decided June 5, 1916.

Quarre, Whether a suit against the members of the. Mississippi River
Commission to enjoin them from constructing levees is not really i
suit against the United States of which the courts haveno jurisdiction without its consent.
An owner of land fronting on the Mississippi River has no right to

