OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Statement of the Case.

241 U. S.

MARYLAND DREDGING AND CONTRACTING
COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 310. Argued April 25, 1916.-Decided May 8, 1916.
A government contract for dredging a channel contained a provision
that time was an essential feature, and provided for a specified
amount per day as liquidjted damages for delay and not as a penalty;
it also provided that unless extraordinary and unforeseen conditions
should supervene the time allowed was sufficient and extensions
could only be granted on recommendation of engineer in charge
affirmed by Chief of Engineers; a submerged forest which had not.
been discovered by the contractor prior to commencement of the
work, although the contract placed the burden on him to do so, was
encountered and so impeded progress as to cause delay for which
the Government deducted as liquidated damages. the amount speci-

fied in the contract. In a suit to recover that amount held:
The provision in the contract that the time was sufficient unless
extraordinary conditions should supervene does not amount to a
promise for extension if such conditions do supervene.
The extent of promise for an extension under the contract was
confined to what the engineer in charge would grant with the
sanction of the Chief Engineer; nor was the Chief Engineer bound,
in the absence of fraud, to give his sanction to, a recommendation
of the engineer in charge for an extension.
For extraordinary conditions to supervene in such a case they
must come into being after commencement of the work, and not
merely be thereafter discovered to have existed and still to exist.
The provision in the contract for liquidation of damages at
$20 per day contains no element of deception or exorbitance and
the contractor cannot escape the terms agreed upon.

THE facts, which involve the construction of a contract
with the United States for excavation of a channel, and
the liability of the contractor for damages for delay in
completion, are stated in the opinion.

MARYLAND DREDGING CO. v. UNITED STATES.
241

U. S.

185

Counsel for the United States.

Mr. C. C. Calhoun, with whom Mr. D. B. Henderson and Mr. J. Barrett Carter were on the brief, for
appellant:
The submerged forest encountered as it was entitled
appellant to an extension of time. Appellant is also entitled to such extension under paragraph 16 of the specifications, and Article V of the contract. Provisions of
contract and specifications relieving contractor from
performance are equivalent to the phrase "Act of God"
as defined in 1 Cyc. 758, and Words and Phrases, 118.
There is no inconsistency, between paragraph 16 of the
specifications and Article V of contract. The construction
given by arbitrator named in contract should govern.
The sanction of the Chief Engineer is a ministerial and
not a judicial act. The construction given by parties
to the contract should control.
The first paragraph of Article V of the contract contemplated a penalty and not liquidated damages. There
is a distinction between liquidated damages and penalty.
In support of these contentions see Barlow v. United
States, 35 Ct. Cls. 514; S. C., 184 U. S. 123; Chicago &
Santa Fe R. R. v. Price, 138 U. S. 187; Dist. of Col. v.
Gallaher, 124 U. S. 505; Garrison v. United States, 7 Wall.
688; Gibbons v. United States, 109 U. S. 200; Kihlberg v..
United States, 97 U. S. 398; New Jersey Foundry v. United
States, 44 Ct. Cls. 570; 1 Sedgwick on Damages, 9th Ed.,
p. 779; Stewart v. Stone, 14 L. R. A. 215, note; Sun Printing Assn. v. Moore, 183 U. S. 642; Tayloe v. Sandiford,
7 Wheat. 13; United States v. Bethlehem Steel Co., 205
U. S. 105; United States v. Gleason, 175 U. S. 589; Van
Buren v. Digges, 11 How. 461; Williams v. Grant, 1 Connecticut, 487.
Mr. Assistant Attorney' General Huston Thompson for
the United States.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

241 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the

court.
This is an appeal from a judgment of the Court of Claims
dismissing the claimant's petition upon demurrer. On
August 15, 1908, the claimant made a contract with
Captain Brown of the Engineers, acting for the United
States, to excavate a channel from Beaufort Inlet to
Pamlico Sound through Core and Adams Creeks in conformity with specifications made part'of the contract.
It was approved on September 10 and required the work
to be'begun within forty-five days after date of notification of approval, September 14, and to be completed
within eighteen months. The work not having been
finished on time $7,320 of the agreed compensation was
withheld as liquidated damages and $210.50 as additional
costs of superintendence and inspection, $7,530.50 in all,
for which sum this suit is brought.
The petition alleges that after getting through Core
Creek to and through the headwaters of Adams Creek to
a point on tide water about five miles from its mouth,
where for a mile and a half it averages more than 100
feet wide and for the next three miles and a half 2500 feet,
the stumps and roots of a submerged forest were encountered at about eight feet below the bottom of the
water, which made it impossible to do the work with the
ordinary machinery and in the ordinary way, or to finish
the work by the time agreed. It is alleged that the forest
was submerged by some abnormal force and violence of
the elements, and that it could not have been discovered
by the ordinary methods of inspection and was not discovered in fact, although the claimant and others and the
Government had exercised every known precaution and
had made exhaustive examinations with the utmost care
and skill. The petition sets up that this was a prevention
'by abnormal force and violence of the elements' within

MARYLAND DREDGING CO. v. UNITED STATES.
241 U. S.

187

Opinion of the Court.

the contract and that the claimant also was entitled to
an allowance of time under a clause in the specifications
stating that the time is considered sufficient 'unless extraordinary and unforeseeable conditions supervene.' It
also sets up that an extension of time was recommended
by Captain Brown although disallowed by the Chief Engineer. Finally the petition alleges that it was known by
the Government officials when the contract was made
that the portion of the canal excavated by the claimant
could not be used to any practical extent for commercial
purposes until adjoining portions of a proposed line were
completed and that the additional work was not provided
for or seriously contemplated within the time of the
claimant's work. It is concluded that although the contract purports to provide for liquidated damages fixed at
$20 a day, yet in the circumstances it really imposed a
penalty and that the Government has no right to retain
the sum.
As has been implied already the contract agreed "that
time shall be considered as an essential feature of this
contract, and that in case of the failure upon the part
of the party of the second part to complete this contract
within the time as specified and agreed upon that the
party of the first part will be damaged thereby, and the
amount of said damages being difficult, if not impossible of
definite ascertainment and proof, it is hereby agreed that
the amount of said damages shall be estimated, agreed
upon, liquidated, and fixed in advance, and they are hereby
agreed upon, liquidated, and fixed at the sum of twenty
(20) dollars for each division for each and every day the
party of the second part shall delay in the completion of
this contract" and the claimant agrees to pay that amount
'as liquidated damages, and not by way of penalty.' It
is agreed further that the United States shall have the
right to recover all costs of inspection and superintendence
incurred by it during the period of delay, and that it may

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

retain all the above-mentioned sums from any moneys
falling due under the contract.
There is a proviso that if the claimants 'shall by strikes,
epidemics, local or state quarantine restrictions, or by
the abnormal force or violence of the elements, be actually
prevented from completing the work

.

at the time

.

agreed upon' without contributory negligence on his part
'such additional time may, with the prior sanction of the
Chief of Engineers, be'allowed him'

.

.

'.as, in the

judgment of the party of the first part, or his successor,
shall be just and reasonable.' As we have intimated, the
specifications also state that the time allowed is considered
sufficient 'unless extraordinary and unforeseeable conditions supervene.' The claimant further thinks that he

finds some support for his argument in a provision that
'solid rock, large bowlders, and compact gravel will not

have to be removed at the prices bid for ordinary excavation. If such materials should be encountered their removal, if required by the engineer, will be done under
special agreement and paid for as extra work.'

On the

other hand the claimant was required to remove all trees
and "The channel must be cleared of all snags, logs,
roots, stumps, or wreckage that project into or encroach
in any way upon the cross section,

.

.

.

the cost of

same being included in the unit price bid for excavation."
The claimant invokes a provision that the engineer's
decision as to quality, quantity and interpretation of
the specifications shall be final; and this ends the statement of his case.
It is hopeless to argue against the provisions that we
have recited, and the further express warning that each
bidder "is expected to examine and decide for himself,
as no allowance will be made should any of it prove to be
otherwise than as stated,' except as above recited with regard to solid rock, &c. It is suggested that the special
agreement to be made for the removal of 'such materials'

MARYLAND DREDGING CO. v. UNITED STATES.
241 U. S.

189

Opinion of the Court.

means materials of similar kind; but the phrase cannot be
stretched to cover roots. The statement in the specifications that the time is sufficient unless extraordinary conditions supervene does not promise an extension if such conditions do supervene. The extent of this promise is fouhd in
the words of the contract providing for the allowance of
such additional time as with the sanction of the Chief Engineer the engineer in charge may think reasonable. Those
words tend also to support the contention of the Government that 'supervene' means come into being in the
course of the work, as in the case of strikes, epidemics,
&c., and not merely be dicovered to have existed and
still to exist. We may add that the averment hazarded
that the submergence of the forest was due to abnormal
force of the elements is too obvious an attempt to pervert
the meaning of the proviso as to being actually prevented
by such force from completing the work, to require analysis. But it is enough to say that any extension depended
on the sanction of the Chief of Engineers and that that
sanction was denied. It is said that the engineer in charge
construed the contract differently as he recommended
an allowance of time. But the ground of the recommendation does not appear to have been an incorrect interpretation of the contract, on the contrary it is alleged that
the liquidated damages were withheld by Captain Brown;
and if his interpretation had been wrong, it is hard to se:
how it would have bound his superior on whose sanction
the recommendation depended for effect. The suggestion
that it was the duty of the Chief Engineer to give his
sanction in the absence of fraud finds no support in the
words used. The claimant must abide by the words.
Carnegie Steel Co. v. United States, 240 U. S. 156, 164.
The allegations by which the claimant attempts to
avoid his contract making time of the essence, that the
damages were difficult to prove and that therefore they
should be fixed at twenty dollars a day, are too specula-

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

241 U. S.

tive to do more than emphasize the necessity for the
liquidation. There is no element of deception or exorbitance and although the case seems a hard one we see
no ground upon which the claimant can escape from the
terms to which he has agreed. United States v. Bethlehem
Steel Co., 205 U. S. 105, 119.
Judgment affirmed.

GEORGIA, FLORIDA & ALABAMA RAILWAY
COMPANY v. BLISH MILLING COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE COURT -OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
GEORGIA.
No. 292.

Argued March 15, 1916.-Decided May 8, 1916.

The bill of lading of an interstate shipment.issued by the initial carrier
contained a stipulation that claims for failure to make delivery must
be made in writing, to the carrier at point of delivery within a specified p6riod otherwise carrier not liable; there was a delivery, but it
was made contrary to instructions, and the shipper telegraphed the
terminal carrier that it made claim for entire value at invoice price.
Held that:
Under the Carmack Amendment the connecting carrier was not
relieved from liability, but the bill of lading required to be issued
by the initial carrier upon an interstate shipment governs the entire transportation and fixes the obligations of all participating
:carriers to the extent that its terms are applicable and valid.
the question of proper construction of the bill of lading of an
interstate shipment is a Federal question.
Multitudinous transactions of a carrier justify the requirement
of written notice of misdeiveries of merchandise and claims
against it even with respect to its own operations.
The Carmack Amendment casts upon the initial carrier responsibility with respect to the entire transportatioli; and i case
of misdelivery by the terminal carrier the initial carrier is liable.
A provision in an interstate bill of lading is to be construed

