ST. LOUIS LAND CO. v. KANSAS CITY.
241 U. S.

Syllabus.

ST. LOUIS AND KANSAS CITY LAND COMPANY
v. KANSAS CITY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
No. 261.

Argued March 7, 1916.-Decided June 5, 1916.

The extent of the authority conferred upon a city by its charter, the
construction of such charter, and the validity, scope and effect of
ordinances adopted by the city and of proceedings thereunder and
the rights of parties thereto under state law, are matters of state law
as to which the decision of the state court is controlling.
A ruling as to the effect, with respect to supplemental proceeding,
of the decree in a court of the same State holding a prior assessment
void as to certain parties for want of required notice, does not present a Federal question.
An owner of property, which may be assessed, for benefits in order to
pay an award for property condemned, is not entitled, under the
due process provision of the Fourteenth Amendment, to be made a
party to the condemnation proceeding or to be heard as to the
amount of the awards; due process of law requires only those whose
property is to be taken for public improvement to have prior notice.
The question under the Fourteenth Amendment is one of state power
and not of state policy; of what the State must accord-not what
it may grant or withhold in its discretion.
Differences due to voluntaVr action and diverse individual choice
may arise under equal laws and not amount to denial of equal protection of the law wihin the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment.
While all taxes and assessments are necessarily laid by some rule of
apportionment, and a scheme of. distribution which is palpably
arbitrary and constitutes a plain abuse may be condemned as violating the Fourteenth Amendment, the mere fact that there may be
inequalities is not enough to invalidate the action of a State.
Where assessments are made by a political subdivision according to
special benefits, the property owner is entitled to be heard as to
the amount of his assessment and all matters properly entering into
that determination, but he is not entitled to be heard not only as
to the assessment on his property but also as to the assessments
on all other property owners.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

Where a state statute provides for a supplemental proceeding to correct errors in an assessment proceeding, nothing in the Federal Constitution prevents the inclusion in the supplemental proceeding of
properties omitted from the original proceeding.
The Seventh Amendment has no application to an assessment or condemnation proceeding in a state court.
260 Missouri, 395, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality under
the Fourteenth Amendment of proceedings for condemnation of land for a street widening and assessments for
benefits in Kansas City, Missouri, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. I. N. Watson, Mr. Kenneth Mc C. DeWeese and
Mr. H. M. Langworthy, with whom Mr. Edward White,
and Mr. E. 3l. Jones were on the brief, for plaintiffs in
error.
Mr. Jesse C. Petherbridge and Mr. Arthur F. Smith,
with whom Mr. Andrew F. Evans was on the brief, for
defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of the court.
This was a supplemental proceeding to assess certain
parcels of land in Kansas City, Missouri, for benefits.
The assessments were for the purpose of meeting an
unpaid portion of damages which had been awarded for
property condemned in widening Sixth street. Judgment
for the assessments was entered on the verdict of a jury
and was affirmed by the Supreme Court of Missouri,
in banc. 260 Missouri, 395. This writ of error is prosecuted by owners of property thus assessed.
In October, 1909, the Common Council of Kansas City
passed an ordinance providing for the condemnation of
property within specified limits and for the raising of the
amount of the award by special assessments against
property within a described benefit district in accordance
with Article 6 of the City's charter. Proceedings ac-

ST. LOUIS LAND CO. v. KANSAS CITY.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

cordingly were then brought in the Municipal Court of
Kansas City resulting in an award of $166,299.57 for
property taken and in the making of assessments of like
amount for benefits. There were over 13,000 different
tracts within the benefit district. No appeal was taken
from the judgment. The City collected on the assessments about $89,000. It was discovered that the publication of the required notice of the proceeding was defective and in an appropriate suit in equity, brought bY
the Union Pacific Railroad Company, a decree was obtained in favor of that company, and of certain intervenors, annulling the assessments against their properties;
and no appeal was taken from that decree.
Thereupon., Kansas City attempted to repeal the original ordinance, presumably--as the state court suggestsfor the purpose of abandoning the proceeding and returning the assessments paid. At the suit of owners of
the land condemned-Who were entitled to the awardsdecree was entered enjoining the City from abandoning
the condemnation proceedings. The City then enacted a
'supplemental or curative ordinance' basing its action on
the authority of ยง 231 of Article 6 of the City's charter.
Section 23 is as follows:
Defective Proceedings--Supplemental.
When by
reason of any error, defect; or omission in any proceedings, or in the
verdict or judgment therein that may be instituted under the provisions of this Article, a portion of the private property sought to be
taken, or some interest therein, cannot be acquired, or an assessment
is made against private property which cannot be enforced or collected,
or when, by reason of any such defect, private property in the benefit
district is omitted, the city may, by ordinance, institute, carry on and
maintain supplemental proceedings to acquire the right and title to
such property or interest therein intended to be taken by the first
proceeding, but which cannot on account of such defect, error or omission, be acquired thereunder, or to properly assess against any piece
or parcel of private property against which an assessment was in the
first proceeding erroneously made or omitted to be made, the proper
1

"SECTION 23.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

"The object of said sensible charter provision," it is said
by the state court, "was to afford a remedy when by any
error, defect or omission in condemnation proceedings,
assessments made against private property cannot be
enforced or collected or where property in the benefit
district is omitted, etc. In such case it was provided
that the city may by ordinance institute and carry on
supplemental proceedings to make a proper assessment
against any parcel of property in the benefit district
erroneously omitted or erroneously made in the first
proceeding, etc." 260 Missouri, p. 406.
Under this ordinance the supplemental proceeding was
instituted in the Municipal Court. The notice required
by the charter was given and the plaintiffs in error (with
the exception of the Union Depot Bridge & Terminal
Railroad Company) appeared. The jury returned a
verdict which was "the same as to the amount of benefits
as the .verdict returned in the original proceeding." State
ex rel. Graham v. Seehorn, 246 Missouri, 541, 552; see
260 Missouri, p. 406. An appeal was taken from the judgment to the Circuit Court of Jackson County. While
amount such private property, exclusive of the improvements thereon,
is benefited by the proposed improvement to be determined by the
verdict of the jury in such supplemental proceedings; and the original
assessments may be revived, corrected, increased or diminished as may
be necessary or equitable under the provisions of this Article for the
original proceedings. Such supplemental proceedings shall be instituted and conducted as to the particular piece or pieces of private
property sought to be acquired or assessed in like manner and with
like effect as in the original proceedings, .and shall be known 4nd described as supplemental proceedings for the purposes specified in the
original ordinance; and a supplemental verdict and assessment shall
be made, confirmed and copies df the original verdict certified in every
particular as in the original proceedings; and the assessments as established and corrected by such supplemental verdict shall be collected
by the City Treasurer in the same manner and under like conditions
and restrictions, powers and duties as in the case'of original proceedings."

ST. LOUIS LAND CO. v. KANSAS CITY.
241 U. S.

423

Opinion of the Court.

the case was pending in that court, the presiding judge
having announced that he purposed to "try out the question of the amount of damages awarded to property
owners whose property was taken or damaged under the
original proceeding as well as the question of assessing
benefits over non-paying properties within the benefit
district," two prohibition suits were brought in the Supreme Court of the State. The one was brought by owners
of property in the benefit district who contended that
the Municipal Court had no jurisdiction of either the
original or the supplemental proceedings, and hence that
the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction on appeal. This
contention was overruled and the writ denied. State ex
rel. Graham v. Seehorn, supra; see 260 Missouri, p. 407.
The other prohibition suit was brought by the owners of
property which was sought to be taken for public use.
They urged that there was no provision for an appeal in a
supplemental proceeding begun in the Municipal Court,
and that, in any event, the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction to award damages. The court sustained the right
of appeal, but it was held that-the verdict and judgment
in the original proceedings were valid "as to those who
appeared and accepted them"; that the original proceedings, unappealed from, became res judicata. The jury
were not to include in their verdict "assessments of benefits and damages upon property properly included in the
first verdict." In answer to the contention that property
owners in the benefit district were entitled to be heard
on the question of the amount to be paid for the property
taken in condemnation, the court ruled that, while it
was entirely proper as a matter of grace to permit such
owners to aid the city in preventing an unduly high valuation of the property condemned, they were not necessary
parties in the determination of that issue and that this
question was not open to retrial in the supplemental
proceedings where the owners of the property condemned

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

had acquiesced in the awards. Accordingly, a writ issued
prohibiting the Circuit Court from retrying the question
of the amount of damages awarded to the owners of property condemned. State ex rel. Tuller v. Seehorn, 246
Missouri, 568; see 260 Missouri, 407-409.
The Circuit Court then resumed the trial of the appeal
in the supplemental proceeding. The plaintiffs in error
appearing (with the exception of the Union Depot Bridge
Company) challenged the validity of the proceedings
under the state law and each company also claimed protection under the due process and equal protection clauses
of the Fourteenth Amendment from any assessment of
benefits until it had "opportunity to be heard upon the
amount of damages that shall be awarded to property
owners and the benefits assessed against it as provided
by the charter of Kansas City in the original proceedings"
and that it was entitled to notice of those proceedings.
The right to retry the amount of the award in condemnation was frequently reiterated during the progress of the
cause and denied. It was also unsuccessfully contended
that the decree in favor of the Union Pacific Railroad
Company, ,and intervenors, annulling the former assessments as to them was a bar. The court further ruled,
over exceptions, that under the decision of the Supreme
Court the jury was concluded from changing the assessments on the property of those owners who had paid
under the original proceedings; and a general offer of
testimony assailing such assessments was rejected. It
appeared that, after deducting from the total awards of
damages for property condemned the amount which had
already been paid by property owners, there remained
a balance of $76,981.98. Among the instructions given
to the jury (and to each of which a general exception was
taken) were the following:
"This balance you may assess against the city generally, including any benefit to any property of the city

ST. LOUIS LAND CO. v. KANSAS CITY.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

within the benefit district, and against such of the remaining private property, lots, tracts and parcels of land, exclusive of the improvements thereon, in the benefit district, as you may deem is benefited, if any, and in the
proportion which you may deem the same benefited, by
the opening and widening of Sixth Street, and upon which
no assessments have been paid under the original proceedings."
"If the jury find and believe from the evidence that the
benefits to the city at large and the special benefits to all
the property within the benefit district does not equal the
damages heretofore awarded for the proposed taking of
property for widening 6th Street from Broadway to Bluff
Street or if the jury find that the damages so awarded
exceeds in amount all such benefits as would accrue from
such widening of 6th Street-then the jury will so state
in their verdict and will assess no benefits in these proceedings."
"The jury are instructed that in determining the
special benefit, if any, to be assessed against any piece
of property, they are not allowed to assess any sum against
any piece of property except such sum as they may find
said property is actually and specially benefited and enhanced in value, as distinguished from any general benefit such property may receive, if any, in common with
other property of the city, by reason of the widening of
6th Street."
"In passing upon the issue as to whether or not the
damages in this case exceed the benefits, the jury should
not and must not be influenced by the fact that the damages have been determined by another jury in another
proceeding. Private property must not be assessed in
excess of the actual benefits accruing thereto, if any,
as distinguished from the benefits accruing to the city in
general."
"Upon your request for further instruction in regard

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

to your duties as to assessing benefits in this proceeding,
you are instructed that you may not assess any benefits
in this supplemental proceeding against any property in
the benefit district which was adjudged in the original
proceeding to have been damaged by reason of a part
thereof being taken for the widening of Sixth Street from
Broadway to Bluff Street."
Among the instructions refused was one (apparently
asked by a party not one of the plaintiffs in error, but in
whose. exception the others joined) to the effect that the
property owner was entitled under the Fourteenth Amendment "to introduce evidence and be heard upon the ques-.
tions (a) of the cost of the improvement in question to
pay which such benefits are to be assessed and (b) of
what proportion of the total benefit, if any, of said improvement should be assessed against other property in
the benefit district, that upon the plat of which is marked
the word 'paid' as well as all other property," and that
inasmuch as the alleged right had been denied the jury
should not assess any benefit.
The jury rendered a verdict laying assessments upon the
properties of the plaintiffs in error, and motions for a
new trial were denied. The Union Depot Bridge Company
was assessed with two others, jointly, and appeared and
objected to the verdict. Thereupon, the court recalled
the jurors and directed separate assessments which were
made. The Union Depot Bridge Company asked for an
instruction to the effect that a portion of its property
had been assessed in the original proceeding, that the
assessment had been paid, and that the remainder of the
lands were then found not to be benefited and should not
be assessed. This instruction was refused. This company
also moved for a new trial, insisting that it was deprived
of its property without due process of law and denied the
equal protection of the laws in violation of the Fourteenth
Amendment.

ST. LOUIS LAND CO. v. KANSAS CITY.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

On appeal the Supreme Court of the State entered
judgment of affirmance, and it is to review that judgment
that this writ of error has been sued out.
The extent of the authority conferred upon the City by
its charter, the construction of the various provisions of
the charter, the validity, scope and effect under the state
law of the ordinances adopted by the City, and the scope
and effect of the original and supplemental proceedings,
and the rights of the parties thereto, under the state law,
are state questions as to which the decision of the state
court is controlling. Long Island Water Co. v. Brooklyn,
166 U. S.685; Castillo v. McConnico, 168 U. S. 674, 683;
King v. Portland, 184- U. S. 61; Willoughby v. Chicago,
235 U. S.45. So, the ruling as to the effect, with respect
to the supplemental proceeding, of the decree in a court
of the same State holding the prior assessments void for
want of the required' notice, as to the complainant in
that suit and certain intervenors, does not present a
Federal question. Phvenix Ins. Co. v. Tennessee, 161
U. S.174, 185.
It is also well settled that an owner of property which
may be assessed for benefits in order to pay an award for
property condemned, is not entitled by virtue of the
Fourteenth Amendment to insist upon being made a party
to the condemnation proceeding or to be heard with respect to the amount of the award. He may not demand,
as a Federal right, that the power of eminent domain shall
not be exercised save upon notice to him. Voigt v. Detroit,
184 U. S. 115, 122; Goodrich v. Detroit, 184 U. S.432, 437,
438; Londoner v. Denver, 210 U. S. 373, 378. As well
might it be argued, as was suggested in Goodrich v. Detroit,
supra, that whenever the city contemplated a publ%
improvement of any description, it would be necessary
to give notice to all those who might be taxed to pay for it.
The established rule is "that it is only those whose property is proposed to be taken for a public improvement

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

that due process of law requires shall have prior notice."
(Id.)
Nor is there ground for a distinction because the charter
of Kansas City provided a single proceeding, embracing
both the proposed condemnation and assessment for
benefits, and required notice to the property owners
within the benefit district. The question under the Fourteenth Amendment is one of state power, not of state
policy; of what the State must accord, not of what it may
grant or withhold in its discretion. Castillo v. McConnico,
supra; Willoughby v. Chicago, supra. With respect to
neither proceeding, original or supplementary, was it
essential to due process of law in making assessments that
the assessed owners should be heard on the amount of
the awards in condemnation. Nor was there a denial
of the equal protection of the laws because in the original
proceeding there was such an opportunity, together with
a right of appeal. The asserted inequality sprang solely
from the fact that certain assessed owners, despite the
defective publication of notice, appeared and acquiesced
in the proceedings. There is no ground for the charge
of a denial of equal protection because some owners were
willing to waive defects in procedure and others were not.
Differences due to voluntary action and diverse individual choices constantly arise under equal laws. We conclude that the contention based on the refusal to reopen
the case as to the damages awarded is wholly without
merit.
With respect to the amount of the assessments to pay
these damages, it is apparent that the question presented
relates solely to the right to insist upon a re-determination
of the assessments laid upon the properties of other owners,
which those owners had accepted and paid. Under the
rulings of the court, none of the plaintiffs in error were
assessable except for benefits actually and specially accruing to their respective properties; they were heard as

ST. LOUIS LAND CO. v. KANSAS CITY.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to these benefits and as to the amount of their own assessments. Their objection, as to the matter of apportionment, struck at the finality of the other assessments. In
the only instance in which it could be said that any right
under the Federal Constitution was specially and appropriately set up as to apportionment it was urged that
these. owners were entitled to be heard upon "what proportion of the total benefit, if any, of said improvement
should be assessed against other property in the benefit
district, that upon the plat of which is marked the word
'paid' as well as all other property"; and because this
was not allowed, and the assessments which had been
acquiesced in and paid by other owners were held to be
final, a peremptory instruction was asked that the jury
should assess no benefits. It is apparent that this objection goes directly to the validity of the supplemental
proceeding as such and denies the power of the State to
authorize it. It means that the only proceeding that could
constitutionally be taken in such a case would be to have
a trial de novo as to all the assessments; and thus, where
as in this instance thousands of tracts are involved, if a
defect is found in the publication of the notice in the
original proceeding and a property owner challenges his
assessment upon that ground, it would not be sufficient
to give him a hearing as to the amount of his own assessment but he could demand as a constitutional right a
re-determination of the assessments of all others.
This contention is inadmissible. It is true that all taxes
and assessments are laid by some rule of apportionment.
Where the scheme of distribution is palpably arbitrary
and constitutes a plain abuse it may be condemned as
violative of the fundamental conceptions of justice embodied in the Fourteenth Amendment. The principles involved in such cases have recently been discussed and
need not be restated. Wagner v. Baltimore, 239 U. S.
207; Houck v. Little River District, 239 U. S. 254, 265;

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

Myles Salt Co. v. Commissioners, 239 U. S. 478, 485;
Gast Realty Co. v. Schneider Granite Co., 240 U. S. 55, 58,
59; Embree v. Kansas City Road District, 240 U. S. 242,
250, 251. But the mere fact that there may be inequalities is not enough to invalidate state action. Davidson
v. New Orleans, 96 U. S. 97, 105; Walston v. Nevin, 128
U. S. 578, 582; Fallbrook Irrigation District v. Bradley,
164 U. S. 112, 176, 177; Houck v. Little River District,
supra. Where assessments are made by a political subdivision, a taxing board, or court, according to special
benefits, the property owner is entitled to be heard as to
the amount of his assessment and upon all questions
properly entering into that determination. "If the legislature," as has frequently been stated, "provides for
notice to and hearing of each proprietor, at some stage
of the proceedings, upon the question what proportion
of the tax shall be assessed upon his land, there is no taking
of his property without due process of law." Spencer v.
Merchant, 125 U. S. 345, 355, 356; Paulsen v. Portland,
149 U. S. 30, 41; Bauman v. Ross, 167 U. S. 548, 590;
Goodrich v. Detroit, supra. What is meant by his "proportion of the tax" is the amount which he should be
required to pay or with which his land should be charged.
As was said in Fallbrook Irrigation District v. Bradley,
164 U. S. p. 175, when it is found that the land of an owner
has been duly included within a benefit district "the right
which he thereafter has is to a hearing upon the question
of what is termed the apportionment of the tax, i. e.,
the amount of the tax which he is to pay." See, also,.
French v. Barber Asphalt Paving Co., 181 U. S. 324, 341.
It is a very different thing to say that an owner may demand as a constitutional privilege, not simply an inquiry
as to the amount of the assessment with which his own
property should rightly be charged in the light of all relevant facts, but that he should not be assessed at all unless
the assessments of other owners who have paid without

ST. LOUIS LAND CO. v. KANSAS CITY.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

question and are not complaining shall be re-opened and
re-determined. The Fourteenth Amendment affords no
basis for a demand of that sort.
The separate contention of the Union Depot Bridge
Company is, as the state court said, virtually one of res
judicata. It was insisted that as a portion of its prop-.
erty was assessed in the original proceeding, and the assessment had been paid, it could not be assessed on other
portions in the supplemental proceeding; that it must
be concluded that the jury in the original proceeding had
found that the other tracts were not benefited. The
question' whether the first judgment had this effect was a
matter of state law; there is nothing in the Federal Constitution to prevent the assessment in the supplemental
proceedings of properties omitted from the first proceeding. Phoenix Insurance Co. v. Tennessee, supra. The
Seventh Amendment, invoked in this connection, has no
application. Minneapolis & St. Louis R. R. v. Bombolis,
decided May 22, 1916, ante, p. 211. The company appeared in the supplemental proceeding and was heard,
and so far as any Federal question is concerned, does not
appear to be in a different case from that of the other
property owners.
We find no error in the decision of the Federal questions
and the judgment is affirmed.
Judgment affirmed.

