OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

241 U. S.

the tribe, save when Congress expressly or clearly directs
otherwise? In our opinion this is the true view. The
other would subject them not only to the statute relating
to adultery, but also to many others which it seems most
reasonable to believe were not intended by Congress to be
applied to them. One of these prohibits marriage between
persons related within and not including the fourth degree of consanguinity computed according to the rules of
the civil law and affixes a punishment of not more than
fifteen years' imprisonment for each violator. To justify a
court in holding that these laws are-to be applied to
Indians, there should be some clear provision to that
effect., Certainly that is not so now. Besides, the enumeration in the acts of 1885 and 1903, now §§ 328 and 329
of the Penal Code, of certain offenses as applicable to
Indians in the reservations carries with it some implication of a purpose to exclude others.
Judgment affirmed.

ABBOTT v. BROWN, UNITED STATES MARSHAL
FOR SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.
No. 611.

Argued April 13, 1916.-Decided June 12, 1916.

A rule of the District Court requiring motions for new trials to be made
within four days after entry of the verdict is a mere regulation of
practice, a breach of which is only an error of procedure, not affecting the jurisdiction of the court.
After reviewing the statutes relating to the terms of the District Courts
Q.of Florida and the provisions of the Judicial Code and the Rules of
Court relating thereto and to the granting of new trials, held, that:
Such statutory provisions are designed to render the District

ABBOTT v. BROWN.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Courts readily accessible to applicants for just ce in all branches
of the jurisdiction; and, while they require those courts to be always open only as courts of admiralty and of equity, they permit
special terms to be held at any time for the transaction of any
kind of business.
General Rule No 1, of the District Court for the Southern District of-Florida, providing for day to day adjournments during the
absence of the presiding judge, should be liberally construed so as
to keep the court open from the beginning of one statutory term to
the beginning of the next, Havilan v. McGourin, 218 U. S. 442; and
an adjournment made pursuant to that rule does not bring the
term to an end, nor is an order for a new trial made after such an
adjournment, and before the beginning of the next term, beyond
the jurisdictional power of the judge.
One is not estopped from asserting that the judge making an order for
a new trial had jurisdiction to make the same, because in another
proceeding he had moved to quash an indictment for subornation of
perjury, in connection with such new trial, on the ground thatthe
judge acted beyond his jurisdiction in granting the motion, because
not made -within the time prescribed by a rule of court, the indictment being quashed on a different ground and one not taken by the
defendant.

THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of the District Court to grant new trials during or after the term,
*are stated in the opinion.

Mr. CharlesB. Parkhill for appellant.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General William Wallace, Jr.,

for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a final order discharging a writ
of habeas corpus and remanding appellant to the custody
of the United States Marshal. The facts are as follows:
Appellant was indicted in the United States District
Court for the Southern District of Florida, at Tampa,

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

for a violation of a section of the Criminal Code, and in

the month of March, 1912, was tried and found guilty.
On the twelfth day of the same month he was sentenced
to confinement in the penitentiary at Atlanta for the term
of one year and six months. On the same day, and after
passing the sentence, the court entered the following
order: "Ordered that court be adjourned in accordance
with General Rule No. 1, and all orders and other matters
be entered as of the term. Thereupon court is adjourned
as ordered." After the entry of this order, Judge Locke,
the district judge, went to Jacksonville, in the same district, and the deputy clerk noted on the minutes from day
to day that court was open in accordance with General
Rule No. 1, after which he entered orders made from time
to time by the court in vacation. On May 24, 1912,
appellant filed a motion for a new trial upon the ground
of newly discovered evidence, with several affidavits in
support of it. On June 26 Judge Locke, at Jacksonville,
granted this motion, and made a proper order, pursuant.:
to which appellant was brought to trial on February 11,
1913, when the juiy disagreed. He was again tried on
March 13, 1914, and the jury returned a verdict of not
guilty. Thereafter, and in February, 1915, the persons
who had made the affidavits in support of the motion for a
new trial were indicted for perjury, and appellant was indicted for subornation of perjury. Appellant demurred
to this indictment and moved to quash it upon the ground
that Judge Locke had no jurisdiction to grant a new trial
because the motion was not file. within four days after

the verdict. The demurrer and motion to quash were
heard by the then presiding judge, who sustained the demurrer and quashed the indictment upon the ground that
Judge Locke had no power or authority, after the making
of the adjournment order of March 12, 1912, to vacate
or set aside the sentence passed upon appellant on that
date.

ABBOTT v. BROWN.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Thereafter, and on March 20, 1915, the Government
procured a commitment to be issued upon the original
judgment of conviction, and it is under this writ that appellant is now held in custody.
Two questions arise: (1) Were the order for a new trial,
and the trial proceedings had thereunder, null and void?
(2) If not, should they nevertheless be so regarded as
against appellant, because of what he did in obtaining the
quashing of the indictment for subornation of perjury?
Under the first head,- counsel for appellee cites a rule of
the district court reading thus: "Motions for new trials
shall 'bemade wjthi four days after the entry of the verdict, during which time no judgment shall be :entered,:
except by leave of court," ,etc. We find in the record no
evidence that there was such a rule; but, assuming we
may take judicial notice of its existence, it was a mere
regulation of practice, and'a breach of it Would be, at the
utmost, a mere error of procedure, not affecting the
jurisdiction.
The principal insistence, and the ground upon which
the court rested the decision that is now under review,
is that the adjournment order of March 12 brought the
term to an end, so far as criminal business was concerned, and left the court without jurisdiction to entertain the motion of May 24 or grant a new trial thereon,
because a court of law cannot set aside or alter its final
judgment after the expiration of the term at which it was
rendered, except pursuant to an application made within
the term. United States v. Mayer, 235 U. S. 55, 67.
The order of March 12 must be read in connection with
the General Rule to which it refers, and this must be interpreted in -the light of the law regulating the terms and
-the business of the court. 'General Rule No. 1 is as follows:
"The law requiring the court to be always open for the'
transaction of certain kinds of business which may be

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

transacted under the statutes, and under the orders of the.
judge who may at the time be absent from the place in
which the court is held, and which business can be transacted by the clerk under the orders of the judge, and is
transacted from day to day in the court, it is ordered that,
pending the temporary absence of the presiding judge of
this district from the district, or the division of the district in which business is presented to be transacted, the
clerk be 'present, either by himself or his deputy, daily,
for the transaction of business, and upon such days as
there is business to be transacted the court be opened, and
that a record of the same be entered upon each of said
days upon the minutes."
The provisions of law. referred to are to be found in the
Judicial Code (act of March 3, 1911, c. 231; 36 Stat.
1087, 1108), of which § 76 divides the State of Florida
into two districts, northern and southern, and provides:
"Terms of the district court for the southern district shall
be held at Ocala on the third Monday in January; at
Tampa on the second Monday in Fe.bruary; at Key'
West on the first Mondays in May and November; at
Jacksonville on the first Monday in December; at Fernandmia on the first Monday in April; and at Miami on the
fburth Monday in April. The district court for the
southern district shall be open at all times for the purpose
of hearing and deciding causes of admiralty and maritime
jurisdiction."
Other sections to be considered are: Section 9 (§§ 574
and 638, Rev. Stat.),which declares that the District Courts,
as courts of admiralty and as courts of equity, shall be
deemed always open for the purpose of filing pleadings,
issuing and returning process; and making interlocutory
motions, orders, etc., preparatory to the hearing upon the
merits; § 10 (§,578, Rev. Stat.), requiring such courts
to hold monthly adjourmnents of their regular terms for
the trial of criminal causes when the business requires it;

ABBOTT v. BROWN.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and § 11 (§ 581, Rev. Stat.), which declares that a special
term of the District Court may be held at the same place
where any regular term is held, or at such other place in
the district as the nature of the business may require,
and at such time and upon such notice as may be ordered
by the district judge, and that any business may be
transacted at such special term which might be transacted
at a regular term.
The provision of §76 which requires the District Court
to be open at all times for the purpose of hearing and deciding admiralty causes traces its origin to the act of
February 23, 1847 (c. 20; 9 Stat. 131), which established
the southern district of Florida, evidently for the especial
purpose of disposing of admiralty business; and this
particular provision was carried into the Revised Statutes
as § 575. It covers the hearing and deciding of admiralty
causes, while the provision now found in § 9, Jud. Code
(§§ 574 and 638, Rev. Stat.), which originated in an act of
August 23, 1842 (c. 188, § 5; 5 Stat. 517), relates to interlocutory proceedings "preparatory to the hearing."
The statutory provisions referred to are designed to
render the District Courts readily accessible to applicants
for justice in all branches of the jurisdiction; and while
they require those courts to be always open only as courts
of admiralty and as courts of equity, they permit "special
terms" to be held at any time for the transaction of any
kind of business.
The celebrated remark of Lord Eldon: "The Court of
Chancery is always open," (Temple v. Bank of England,
6 Ves. Jun. 770, 771), evidenced the great adaptability
of the practice of that court to the needs of litigants;
and modem legislation has shown a strong tendency to
reform the practice of common law courts by facilitating
the transaction of their business in vacation. The' sections we have quoted from the Judicial Code indicate a
policy of avoiding the hardships consequent upon a closing

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

of the court during vacations. The General Rule in
question was evidently designed to carry out this policy
and should receive a liberal interpretation consonant
with its spirit: that is, as keeping the term alive, by adjournments from day to day, pending the temporary
absence of the presiding judge, so that court might and
should be actually opened upon such days as there was
business of any character to be transacted. Thus interpreted, its effect was not different from that of the rule
which this court, in Harlan v. McGourin, 218 U. S. 442,
449, 450, 'construed as keeping the court open from the
beginning of one statutory term until the beginning of
the next. Judge Locke so construed the General Rule
and the adjournment order made under it, when he entertained and granted the motion for new trial filed May 24,
1912, and we are satisfied that he committed no jurisdictional error in so doing. It is obvious that the order for
a new'frial necessarily vacated the sentence of March 12,
1912, and that the subsequent acquittal of. appellant
exhausted the power of the court under the first indictment.
Nor is appellant, in our opinion, estopped to assert
the jurisdiction of Judge Locke to entertain the motion
for a' new trial. The estoppel is sought to be based upon
the position he is said to have taken in demurring to and
moving to quash the indictment for subornation of perjury. The record shows, however, that the demurrer
and motion were based upon the ground that the motion
for new trial was not filed within four days after verdict.
This was true in fact, but the court in effect held it not
well founded in law; for it proceeded to sustain the demurrer and quash the indictment upon another ground,
and one not taken by appellant, viz., that the adjournment order of March 12, 1912, brought the term to a
conclusion and deprived Judge Locke of powe to set
aside the final judgment and sentence passed upon ap-

MUTUAL LIFE INS. CO. v. HILTON-GREEN.
241 U. S.

613

Syllabus.

pellant on that day. The fundamental ground of af'
estoppel is wanting, and we need not weigh other considerations that might operate against it.
The judgment of conviction having been vacated by
an order of the court made within the scope of its power
and jurisdiction, there remains no legal foundation for
the commitment issued on March 20, 1915, and appellant
is entitled to be discharged from custody.
Final order reversed, and the cause remanded for further
proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY OF NEW
YORK v. HILTON-GREEN, EXECUTORS OF
WIGGINS.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 126.

Argued December 9, 1915.-Decided June 12, 1916.

Material representations in an application for life insurance which are

incorrect, if known to be untrue by the assured when made, and
nothing else appearing, invalidate the policy issued by the insurer
relying on such representations, without further proof of actual
conscious design to defraud.
The general rule, which imputes an agent's knowledge to the principal,
does not apply when the third party knows there is no foundation
for the ordinary presumption, and he is acquainted with circumstances plainly indicating that the agent will not advise the principal.
The rule imputing agents' knowledge to the principal is intended to protect those exercising good faith and not as a shield for unfair dealing.

