GIDNEY v. CHAPPEL.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

GIDNEY v. CHAPPEL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
OKLAHOMA.
No. 263. Submitted March 8, 1916.-Decided April 24, 1916.
Sections 6509 and 6521, Mansfield's Digest of the General Laws of Arkansas dealing with appeals from the Probate to the. Circuit Court,
were not put in force in Indian Territory by the Act of May 2, 1890,
c. 182, § 31, 26 Stat. 81, as they were inapplicable to conditions
then existing in:Indian Territory.
Section 6525 upon being adopted and separated from conflicting provisions of the Civil Practice Act of Arkansas, assumed its normal
place among the other laws with which it was adopted and was put
in force by the Act of May 2, 1890.
Quwre whether § 6523 was adopted by the Act of 1890.
43 Oklahoma, 267, affirmed.

facts, which involve the application and construction of statutes of the United States relating to the probate
of wills in Indian Territory, are stated in the opinion.,
THE

Mr. WiUiam T. Hutchings for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Napoleon B. Maxey and Mr. Charles F. Runyan
for defendants in error.
delivered the opinion of
the court.
This was a suit to set aside a will probated in common
form and to avoid its probate. The suit was begun in the
United States Court for the Indian Territory, wherein the
will had been probated, and was transferred to an Oklahoma court when that State was admitted into the Union.
The plaintiff ultimately prevailed and the Supreme Court
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

of the State affirmed the judgment. 38 Oklahoma, 596;
43 Oklahoma, 267.
The Federal question in the case is whether certain
statutes bearing upon such a suit were put in force in the
Indian Territory by the act of May 2, 1890, c. 182, § 31,
26 Stat. 81, 94, whereby Congress adopted and extended
over the Indian Territory certain general laws of Arkansas
"in force at the close of the session of the general assembly
of that State of 1883, as published in 1884 in the volume
known as Mansfield's Digest," where "not locally inapplicable or in conflict with" that or some other act of
Congress. In Arkansas there were probate courts and
courts of general jurisdiction designated as circuit courts,
while for the Indian Territory only one court had been
established at that time, and it was a court of general jurisdiction. In view of this the act declared that "the United
States Court in the Indian Territory herein referred to shall
have and exercise the power of courts of probate under
said laws," and "wherever in said laws of Arkansas the
courts of record of said State are mentioned the said court
in the Indian Territory shall be substituted therefor."
Among the Arkansas laws enumerated in the act was
chapter 155 containing sections numbered from 6490 to
.6548. The section under which the will was probated declares:
"Sec. .6522. When any will shall be exhibited for probate, the court of probate

.

.

.

may and shall

receive'the probate thereof in common form, without
summoning any party, and shall grant a certificate of
probate, or, if the will be rejected, shall grant a certificate
of rejection;

.

"

Other sections (6509 and 6521) provide for an appeal to
the circuit court from an order of the probate court establishing or rejecting a will and for bringing in parties and
giving a hearing de novo upon the appeal. The sections
under'which the suit was.brought read as follows:

GIDNEY v. CHAPPEL.
241 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

"Sec. 6523. Any person interested who, at the time of
the final decision in the circuit court, resided out of this
state, and was proceeded against by order of appearance
only, without actual appearance, or being personaUy
served with process, and any other person interested who
was not a party to the proceedings by actual appearance,
or being personally served with process, may, within three
years after such final decision in the circuit court, by a bill
in chancery, impeach the decision and have a re-trial of
the question of probate; and either party shall be entitled
to a jury for the trial thereof. An infant, not a party, shall
not be barred of such proceedings in chancery until
twelve months after attaining full age."
"Sec. 6525. If any person interested in the probate of
any will shall appear within five years after the probate or
rejection thereof, and, by petition to the circuit court of
the county in which such will was established or rejected,
pray to have any such will rejected, if previously established, or proven, if previously rejected by the court of
probate, it shall be the duty of the circuit court to direct
an issue to try the validity of such will, which issue shall in
all cases be tried by a jury."
As the functions of the probate and circuit courts in
Arkansas were united in a single court in the Indian
Territory, it seems plain, as was held by the Supreme
Court of Oklahoma in this case, that the sections (6509 and
6521) dealing with appeals from the probate to the circuit
court were not applicable to the conditions in the Indian
Territory and therefore were not adopted by the act of
Congress. It hardly was .intended that a court at, all times
presided over by a single judge should entertain appeals
from its own decisions.
The contention advanced respecting § 6523 is that it
related only to decisions of the circuit court upon appeals
from the probate court and was inapplicable where such
an appeal could not be had, and therefore was not adopted.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. 9.

This point was not considered in the opinion of the Supreme Court of Oklahoma and it need not be decided here.
However it might be resolved the result in the present
case would be the same.
The contention made respecting § 6525 is that it was
not adopted, because not in force in Arkansas at the close
of the session of the general assembly of 1883. The claim
that it was not then in force is based upon a decision of the
Supreme Court of Arkansas in 1885 holding that it was
impliedly repealed by the inclusion in the civil practice
act of 1868, which was a later enactment, of certain provisions regulating appeals from the probate to the circuit
court and prescribing the effect to be given to the latter's
decision upon such an appeal. Dowell v. Tucker, 46
Arkansas, 438. Of course, that decision was controlling
in Arkansas, but it has little bearing upon the question
here presented, and for these reasons: Section 6525 was
published in 1884 in Mansfield's Digest as a general law
"in force at the close of the general assembly of 1883"
(see title page of that publication), and the Supreme Court
of the State had bee a treating it as such, Tobin v. Jenkins,
29 Arkansas, 151; Janes v. Williams, 31 Arkansas, 175,
189; Jenkins v. Tobin, ibid., 306, 308; Mitchell v. Rogers,
40 Arkansas, 91, 93-95. Besides, the particular provisions
of the civil practice act which ultimately were regarded as
effecting its implied repeal in Arkansas-they became
§§ 6509 and 6521 of Mansfield's Digest-were not adopted
by the act of Congress, because inapplicable to the conditions in the Indian Territory. In these circumstances we
think the adopting act, rightly interpreted, put the section
in force there. Separated, as it then was, from the restraining influence of the supposedly conflicting provisions
of the civil practice act it assumed its normal place among
the other laws with which it was adopted. This conclusion
is not opposed to our decisions in Adkins v. Arnold, 235
U. S.417, and Perrymanv. Woodward, 238 U. S.148, as

LAMAR v. UNITED STATES.
241 U. S.

Syllabus.

seems to be claimed by the plaintiff in error, but on the
contrary is in accord with what actually was there decided.
Other questions are discussed in the briefs, but as they
are not Federal but essentially local they cannot be reexamined by us.
Judgnent affirmed.

LAMAR v. UNITED STATES.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 895. Argued April 4, 1916.-Decided May 1, 1916.
The Circuit Court of Appeals has no power to compel a party, who has
prosecuted both a direct appeal from this court under § 238, Judicial
Code, and a writ of error from the Circuit Court of Appeals, to elect
which method he will pursue, and, in default of his withdrawing
the direct appeal, to dismiss the writ of error.
While the general rule, when this court reverses a decision of the
Circuit Court of Appeals wholly on the question of its jurisdiction,
is to remand the case to that court without passing upon the merits,
this court has the power to, and, in exceptional cases such as the
present, will, determine the merits.
While a penal provision may not be enlarged by interpretation, it must
not be so narrowed as to fail to give full effect to its plain terms, as
made manifest by its text and context.
A member of the House of Representatives is an officer of the United
States within the meaning of § 32 of the Penal Code.
Section 32 of the Penal Code prohibits and punishes the false assuming,
with the intention to defraud, to be an officer or employee of the
United States; and also the doing in the falsely assumed character
of any overt act to carry out the fraudulent intent whether it would
have been legally authorized had the assumed capacity existed or not.
The indictment in this case clearly charges the fraudulent intent under§ 32 of the Penal Code and is sufficient under § 1025, Revised
Statutes.
There was proof in this case of intent to defraud, and to establish

