OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

241 U. S.

negligence. In short, while he knew there were certain
dangers naturally incident to the use of tubular glasses
upon the lubricator, there is nothing to show that he knew
or had any ground to believe that his employer had been
wanting in the exercise of proper care for his safety, or
that because of such want of care the danger to him was
greater than it ought to have been. Without this, he
could not be held to have assumed the increased risk.
Gila Valley Ry. v. Hall, 232 U. S. 94, 101; Seaboard Air
Line v. Horton, 233 U. S. 492, 504.
1
Judgment affirmed.

SAN ANTONIO & ARANSAS PASS RAILWAY COMPANY v. WAGNER.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS FOR THE FOURTH
SUPREME JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.

No. 311.

Submitted April 14, 1916.-Decided June 5, 1916.

Where the highest court of the State refuses to review the judgment
of the intermediate appellate court of the State, it is to the latter
court that the writ of error runs from this court.
Omission to plead or prove that plaintiff's injury occurred in interstate commerce not having been made the basis of any assignment
of error, held, in this case, in view of the state of the record, not to be
a ground for reversal.
Amendment to the Safety Appliance Act of March 2, 1903 enlarged
the scope of the act so as to embrace all vehicles used on any railway that is a highway of interstate commerce whether employed
at the time or not in interstate commerce.
The Safety Appliance Act requires locomotives to be equipped with automatic couplers and its protection extends to employees when coupling, as well as uncoupling, cars. Johnson v. Sodhern Pacific Co.,
196 U. S. 1.
Quxre, whether the failure of a coupler to work at any time does not
sustain a charge that the Safety Appliance Act has been violated.
See Chicago & Rock Island Ry. v. Brown, 229 U. S. 317.

SAN ANTONIO RY. v. WAGNER.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The Employers' Liability Act and the Safety Appliance Act are in pari
materia, and where the former refers to any defect or insufficiency,
due to the employer's negligence, in its cars, engines, appliances, etc.,
it is clearly the legislative intent to treat a violation of the Safety
Appliance Act as negligence-negligence per ac.
Even if the injury of an employee, suing under the Employers' Liability
Act, resulted from his improper management of a defective appliance covered by the Safety Appliance Act, such misconduct would
only amount to contributory negligence which is, by express terms.
of the Liability Act, excluded from consideration in such a case.
166 S. W. Rep. 24, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the validity of a judgment for
damages for personal injuries in an action under the Employers' Liability Act, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. R. J. Boyle, Mr. A. B. Storey, Mr. Samuel Herrick
and Mr. Rufus S. Day for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. Perry J. Lewis, Mr. H. C. Carter and Mr. John
Sehorn for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The judgment that is brought under review by this
writ of error is the outcome of an action begun in the District Court of Bexar County, Texas, by defendant in error
against plaintiff in error, resulting in a judgment in his
favor. This was affirmed by the Court of Civil Appeals, a
rehearing was denied (166 S. W. Rep. 24, 28), and our
writ of error is directed to that court because the Supreme
Court of Texas refused to review the judgment.
We shall describe the parties according to their attitude
in the trial court. Plaintiff's petition alleged that on
October 18, 1911, he was employed as a brakeman by
defendant, a common carrier by railroad engaged in both
interstate and intrastate commerce; that defendant had
in use in both kinds of commerce a certain engine and a

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S,

certain car, and it became plaintiff's duty to couple them
together; that the couplers would not couple automatically
by impact, as required by law, "and for the purpose of
making said coupling it became necessary for the plaintiff
to stand upon the footboard of said engine, between said
engine and car, and to shove the knuckle of the coupler on
said engine so as to bring it into proper position to make
the coupling as aforesaid;" that plaintiff placed his left
foot against the knuckle of the coupler of the engine for the
purpose of pushing it into position, when he lost his
balance, slipped an4 fell, and his left foot was caught
between the couplers and crushed. Defendant interposed
a general denial and certain special defenses, which latter
were struck out on demurrer. They set up that defendant
was a common carrier engaged in interstate commerce, and
invoked the provisions of the Federal Safety Appliance
Act of March 2, 1893 (c. 196, 27 Stat. 531), and the
amendment of March 2, 1903 (c. 976, 32 Stat. 943),
averring that all couplers attached to railroad engines,
tenders, or cars must have sufficient lateral motion to
permit trains to round the curves, and must be provided
with adjustable knuckles which can be opened and closed,
and such couplers must be adjusted at times in order that
they may couple automatically by impact, and that there
is no kind of automatic coupler constructed or that can be
constructed which will couple automatically at all times
without previous adjustment, because of the lateral play
necessary to enable coupled cars to round curves; that the
engine and car upon which plaintiff was employed at the
time of his injury were engaged in interstate commerce,
and were equipped with automatic couplers which would
couple automatically by impact as required by the acts of
Congress, but an adjustment was necessary for this purpose, and could have been made by the plaintiff going
between the cars while they were standing but without
going between the ends of the cars while in motion or

SAN ANTONIO RY. v. WAGNER.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

between a moving engine and cars, and without kicking
the coupling or in any manner endangering his own personal safety; with more to the same effect.
At the trial the evidence tended to show that plaintiff
was engaged in switching 4t one of defendant's yards and
was riding upon the footboard at the rear of the engine in
order to make a coupling between it and a box car; that
at the first impact-to use plaintiff's words-" the coupling
wouldn't make; I coupled up against them but it wouldn't
make." He then signaled the.engineer to draw ahead, and
this having been done, he adjusted the knuckle and pin
upon the box car, and "I gave the engineer a back-up
signal to couple in again, and I got back on the footboard
of the engine; when I got on the footboard I looked down
and I seen the drawhead on the engine was shifted way
over to my side, and I reached up with my left foot to
shift the drawhead over so it would couple, and my right
foot slipped on the wet footboard;" as a result of which his
left foot was caught between the drawheads and crushed.
He testified that at the first impact the drawhead on the
engine was in line with that on the box car, and that the
only thing that prevented the coupling at this time was
the failure of the pin on the box car to drop. And further:
"When the coupling apparatus of these automatic couplers
are in proper condition and they are properly connected,
they couple by impact automatically; ....
when the
brakeman couples a car he pulls a lever on the outside of
the car, that opens the knuckle-that raises the pin and
opens the coupler up, then all he has to do is to give a signal
and they back right up. He has nothing to do with reference to fixing the knuckle or anything of that sort." He
testified in effect that the coupler was out of order. The
Court of Civil Appeals held that so far as this was opinion
evidence it was admissible as the opinion of a qualified
?expert, plaintiff having been employed by defendant as a
brakeman for eight years, and. being acquainted with the

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. B.

operation of couplers. A witness called by defendant
testified: "These couplers are made to couple automatically by impact-they are supposed to be in such condition as that, so when they come together they will couple
without the necessity of men going in between the cars to
couple or uncouple, and should be in that condition. If
they do not couple with the automatic impact, they are
not in proper condition."
The trial court instructed the jury that if the locomotive
and car in question were not equipped with couplers coupling automatically by impact without the necessity of
plaintiff going between the ends of the cars, and by reason
of this and as a proximate result of it plaintiff received
his injuries, the verdict should be in his favor, otherwise
in favor of defendant, and that. the burden of proof was
upon plaintiff to establish his case by a preponderance
of the evidence.
The. Court of Civil Appeals treated the case as coming
within the Federal Employers' Liability Act of April 22,
1908 (c. 149, 35 Stat. 65), and the assignments of error
in this court and the argument thereon proceed upon
that basis. We shall decide the case upon that assumption, although we find nothing in the record to show that,
in fact, plaintiff was employed in interstate commerce
at the time he was injured. We are asked to take notice
of the omission of pleading and proof of the fact as a
"plain error" and deal with it, although not assigned,
under paragraph 4 of our Rule 21. We must decline
to do this, principally for two reasons: (a) The omission
may have been due to an oversight that would have been
corrected if the point had been properly raised by the
present plaintiff in error in the state courts. (b) Since
the Safety Appliance Acts are in any event applicabledefendant's railroad being admittedly a highway of interstate commerce-whether plaintiff was employed in sucke
pp. 33/
commerce or not (Tex. & Pac. Ry. v. Rigsby, ante,

SAN ANTONIO RY. v. WAGNER.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

42), the only materiality of the question whether the Employers' Liability Act also applies is in its bearing upon
the defense of contributory negligence; the former act leaving that defense untouched (Schlemmer v. Buffalo &c. Ry.,
220 U. S. 590, 596), while the latter (ยง 3; 35 Stat. 66)
abolishes it in any case where the violation by the carrier
of a statute enacted for the safety of employees may contribute to the injury or death of an employee, and in other
cases limits its effect to the diminution of the damages.
Now, an examination of the record discloses that defendant at the trial raised no question of contributory negligence. Such negligence was averred in the special defenses that were struck out, but not as constituting a
defense against a violation of the Safety Appliance Acts;
and the special defenses contained an allegation to the
effect that at the time of his injury plaintiff was engaged in
interstate commerce. In this state of the record, we do
not deem it proper to consider the omission to plead or
prove that plaintiff's injury occurred in interstate commerce, as a ground for reversing the judgment, it not
having been made the basis of any assignment of error.
In the Court of Civil Appeals, as in this court, error
was assigned upon the action of the trial court in striking
out the special defenses. The appellate court held, however, that under the general denial defendant was at
liberty to show all that had been averred in the special
defenses respecting the couplers, and that it was. permitted to prove all that it offered upon that subject. It
is insisted here, and the insistence is many times repeated,
that the trial court refused to admit in evidence testimony
offered to show that all automatic couplers necessarily
require adjustment at times in order that they may operate
automatically upon impact, and that the adjustment is
accomplished by means of hand levers fitted to the cars
and operated by the trainmen without going between the
cars; the object being to show that the engine and car

OCTOBER TERM, -1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

were equipped as required by law, and that the draw-bar
on the engine was thrown out of line by reason of plaintiff's
failure to use the hand lever on the box car in preparation for the first impact. It is insisted, also, that certain
testimony with reference to adjusting couplers on engines
and cars, made necessary by lateral play, in order that
they might couple automatically by impact, having been
admitted, was afterwards excluded as inadmissible. There
is nothing in the certified transcript to sustain either of
these contentions. There is an assertion to the same
effect in the motion for rehearing filed in the Court of
Civil Appeals, where it was stated that the exclusion of
the testimony would be made to appear by reference to
the stenographer's official report of the trial. The Court
of Civil Appeals declared, however, that no such document
had been filed or would be filed in that court; proceeding
thus: "This cause has been considered on the agreed
statement of facts, approved by the trial judge, and the
effect of such statement of facts cannot be impaired or
destroyed by a document not filed among the papers,
and which has no place among the papers. The statement of facts bears out the statement of this court that
appellant was permitted to introduce all the testimony
it desired on the subject of the coupler on the engine.
The record fails to show that any testimony offered by
appellant was withdrawn by the court from the jury."
Eliminating, therefore, because unsupported by anything in the record, the insistence that appellant was
deprived of the opportunity of presenting at the trial
the matters that had been set up in the special defenses,
the remaining questions are few and easily disposed of.
There was sufficient evidence to warrant the jury in
finding that the coupler upon the box car or that upon
the engine, or both, were in bad repair, and that for this
reason they did not measure up to the standard prescribed by the act of March 2, 1893, for such equipment,

SAN ANTONIO RY. v. WAGNER.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

viz.: "Couplers coupling automatically by impact, 'and
which can be uncoupled without the necessity of men going
between the ends of the cars." This standard was by the
first section of the 1903 amendment made to apply "in all
cases, whether or not the couplers brought together are of
the same kind, make, or type;" and was extended to "all
trains, locomotives, tenders, cars, and similar vehicles used on any railroad. engaged in interstate commerce, . . . and to all other locomotives, tenders,
cars, and similar vehicles used in connection therewith,"
subject to an exception not now material. As has been
held repeatedly, this amendment enlarged the scope of the
original Act so, as to embrace all locomotives, cars, and
similar vehicles used on any railway that is a highway
of interstate commerce, whether the particular vehicles
are at the time employed in interstate commerce or not.
Southern Railway v. United States, 222 U. S. 20, 26; Tex. &
Pac. Ry. v. Rigsby, ante, pp. 33, 37.
That the act requires locomotives to be equipped with
automatic couplers, and that its protection extends to
men when coupling as well as when uncoupling cars, are
points set at rest by. Joh'ison v. Southern Pacific Co., 196
U. S. 1, 15, 18.
It is insisted that neither the original Act nor the amendment precludes adjustment of the coupler prior to or at the
time of impact, or treats a drawbar out of alignment as a
defect in the automatic coupler, or as evidence that the
cars are not equipped with couplers measuring up to the
statutory standard. The evidence of bad repair in the
automatic equipment was not confined to the fact that
the drawbar on the engine was out of line; the fact that
the coupling-pin on the box car failed to drop as it should
have done at the first impact, and required manipulation
in preparation for the second impact, together with the
fact that the draw-bar on the engine was so far out of line
as to require adjustment in preparation for the second

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

impact, and the opinion evidence, being sufficient to sustain a finding that the equipment was defective. The jury
could reasonably find that the misalignment of the drawbar was greater than required to permit the rounding of
curves, or, if not, that an adjusting lever should have been
provided upon the engine as upon the car, and that there
was none upon the engine. We need not in this case
determine, what was conceded in Chicago, R. I. & Pac.
Ry. v. Bown, 229 U. S. 317, 320, that the failure of a
coupler to work at any time sustains a charge that the
Act has been violated.
It is argued that in actions based upon the Employers'
Liability Act the defendant can not be held liable without
evidence of negligence, Seaboard Air Line v. Horton,
233 U. S. 492, 501, being cited. But in that case, as the
opinion shows (p. 507), there was no question of a violation of any provision of the Safety Appliance Act; and in
what was said (p. 501) respecting the necessity of showing
negligence, reference was had to causes of action independent of that Act. The Employers' Liability Act,
as its ยง 4 very clehrly shows, recognizes that rights of
action may arise out of the violation of the Safety Appliance Act. As was stated in Tex. & Pac. Ry. v. Rigsby,
ante, pp. 33, 39,-"A disregard of the command of the
statute [Safety Appliance Act] is a wrongful act, and where
it results in damage to one of the class for whose especial
benefit the statute was enacted, the right to recover the
damages from the party in default is implied." If this
Act is violated, the question of negligence in the general
sense of want of care is immaterial. 241 U. S. 43, and
cases there cited. But the two statutes are in pan materia, and where the Employers' Liability Act refers to
"any defect or insufficiency, due to its negligence, in its
cars, engines, appliances," etc., it clearly is the legislative
intent to treat a violation of the Safety Appliance Act as
"negligence"-what is sometimes called negligence per se.

CHES. & OHIO RY. v. KELLY.
241 U. S.

Syllabus.

In various forms plaintiff in error raises the contention
that it was plaintiff's improper management of the coupling operation that was the proximate cause of his injury.
But any misconduct on his part was no more than contributory negligence, which as already shown, is by the
Employers' Liability Act excluded from consideration
in a case such as this.

Judgment affirmed.

CHESAPEAKE & OHIO RAILWAY COMPANY v.
KELLY, ADMINISTRATRIX OF KELLY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
KENTUCKY.

No. 321.

Argued April 19, 20, 1916.-Decided June 5, 1916.

Minneapolis& St. Louis R. R. v. Bombolis, ante, p. 211, followed to.the
effect that the Seventh Amendment does not apply to actions under
the Employers' Liability Act brought in the state courts.
While the Employbrs' Liability Act does not require the damages to
be apportioned among the beneficiaries, quwre, and not now decided,
whether such an apportionment is prohibited by the Act.
Damages under the Employers' Liability Act should be equivalent to
compensation for the deprivation of the reasonable expectation of
pecuniary benefits that would have resulted from the continued life
of the deceased employee.
A given sum of money in hand is worth more than the like sum payable
in the future; and where a verdict is based upon the deprivation of
future benefits, the ascertained amount of these should ordinarily be
discounted so as to make the verdict equivalent to their present value.
In an action brought in a state court under the Employers' Liability
Act, questions of procedure and evidence are to be determined according to the law of the forum; but the question of the proper
measure of damages is inseparably connected with the right of action,
and must be settled according to general principles of law as administered in the Federal courts.
160 Kentucky, 296; 161 Kentucky, 655, reversed.

