VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

preferences, contrary to the equity of the Bankruptcy
Act.
I think the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals (219
Fed. Rep. 544) ought to be affirmed, and am authorized
to say that MR. JusTicE HUGHES concurs in this dissent.

COMMONWEALTH OF VIRGINIA v. STATE OF
WEST VIRGINIA.
PETITION FOR. A WRIT OF EXECUTION.
No. 2, Original.

Submitted June 5, 1916.-Decided June 12, 1916.

A State should be given an opportunity to accept and abide by the
decision of this court; andin a case in which the legislature has not
met in regular session since the rendition of the decision, motion for
execution will be not granted, but denied without prejudice to' renew
after the next session of the legislature.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. John Garland Pollard, Attorney General of the
State of Virginia, for complainant.
Mr. A. A. Lilly, Attorney General of the State of West
Virginia, with whom Mr. John H. Holt was on the brief,
for defendant.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of
the court.
In the original cause of Commonwealth of. Virginia v.
State of West Virginia, on June 14, 1915, a decree was
rendered in favor of Virginia and against West Virginia for
the sum of $12,393,929.50 with interest thereon at the rate

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

of five percentum from July 1st, 1915, until paid. 238
U. S. 202. Virginia now petitions for a writ of execution
against West Virginia on the ground that such relief is
necessary as the latter has taken no steps whatever to
provide for the payment of the decree. West Virginia
resists the granting of the execution on three grounds:
(1) "Because the State of West Virginia, within herself,
has no power to pay the judgment in question, except
through the legislative department of her government,
and she should be given an opportunity to accept and
abide by the decision of this court, and, in the due and
ordinary course, to make provision for its satisfaction,
before any steps looking to her compulsion be taken; and
to issue an execution at this time would deprive her of
such opportunity, because her Legislature has not met
since the rendition of said judgment, and will not again
meet in regular session until the second Wednesday in
January, 1917, and the members of that body have not
yet been chosen;" (2) because presumptively the State
of West Virginia has no property subject to execution;
and (3) because although the Constitution imposes upon
this court the duty, and grants it full power, to consider
controversies between States and therefore authority
to render the decree in question, yet with the grant of
jurisdiction there was conferred no authority whatever
to enforce a money judgment against a State if in the
exercise of jurisdiction such a judgment was entered.
Without going further, we are of the opinion that the
first ground furnishes adequate reason for not granting
the motion at this time.
The prayer for the issue of a writ of execution is therefore denied, without prejudice to the renewal of the same
after the next session of the legislature of the State of
West Virginia has met and had a reasonable opportunity
to provide for the payment of the judgment.
And it is so ordered.

