OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Statement of the Case.

241 U. S.

REID v. FARGO, AS PRESIDENT OF THE AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 279. Argued March 13, 1916.-Decided June 12, 1916.
In the Second Circuit, the practice is well established that an appeal
from the decree of the District Court to the Circuit Court of Appeals
in an admiralty case by one of the parties opens the case for a trial
de novo. Irvine v. The Hesper, 122 U. S. 256.
The owner of an automobile delivered it to an express company in London to forward to New York, declaring its value to be far in excess of
$100; the express company boxed it and delivered it to a carrier and
accepted a bill of lading with a limitation of $100 liability; on arrival
at destination a stevedore discharged the cargo and the rope by which
the automobile was being hoisted broke and the automobile was
seriously damaged: in a suit in personam in admiralty against the
express company and to which the carrier and the stevedore had
been made parties held that:
The breaking of the rope in this case illustrates, as by analogy,
the rule of res ipsa loquitur and throws the responsibility on the
stevedore furnishing the rope and handling the article, unless
such breaking can be explained as resulting from a hidden defect,
which in this case is without support in the evidence.
The breaking of the rope appearing from the evidence to have
probably resulted from straining and cutting, the stevedore was responsible for the damage and the decree should be against him
primarily.
In case of failure to collect from the stevedore the carrier is responsible to the extent of the limited amount stated in the bill of
lading, and in case there is still a deficiency, the express company,
even though only a forwarder, is liable by reason of having, without
the authority of the shipper and with knowledge of the value of
the article entrusted to it, accepted from the carrier a bill of lading
limiting its liability.

THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction and power
of the Circuit Court of Appeals on appeal from the Dis-

REID v. AM. EXP. CO.
241 U. S.

545

Opinion of the Court.

trict Court in Admiralty and the liability of forwarders,
carriers and stevedores in connection with the shipment
and delivery of an automobile, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Oscar R. Houston, with whom Mr. Howard S. Harrington was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Walter F. Taylor for Fargo, President.
Mr. Roscoe H. Hupper, with whom Mr. Norman B.
Beecher was on the brief, for International Marine Co.
Mr. Liinqston Platt, with whom Mr. Frank H. Platt
was on the brief, for T. Hogan & Sons.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This controversy thus arose: In December, 1910, Reid,
the petitioner, delivered in London to the American
Express Company an automobile to be carried to New
York. The Express Company, in a communication concerning the shipment, was informed that the car was
worth about $3,900. The car was boxed by the Express
Company and by it delivered to the Minnewaska, a
steamship belonging to the International Mercantile
Marine Company, bound for New York. The Express
Company shipped the car in its own name as consignor
to itself in New York as consignee and no express notice
was given to the ship of the real value of the package and
its contents. The bill of lading issued by the Steamship
Company expressly limited the liability to $100 and contained the following clause: "It is also mutually agreed
that the value of each package shipped hereunder does
not exceed $100, or its equivalent in English currency
on which basis the freight is adjusted, and the Carrier's
liability shall in no case exceed that sum, unless a value

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

in excess thereof be specially declared, and stated herein,
and extra freight as may be agreed on paid." On the
arrival of the ship at New York, T. Hogan & Sons, Incorporated, stevedores, were employed to discharge the
cargo. A sling was placed around the box containing
the car and a fall with a hook attached to it was affixed
to the sling and by a winch the car was lifted up from the
hold through the hatchway. When it had passed above
the hatchway a hook attached to another tackle was
fastened to the sling, this second tackle being used to
swing the package toward and over the side of the ship
to land it on the pier. This was not accomplished, however, because as the package swung over the side of the
ship toward the pier the sling broke and the car fell into
the water and was seriously damaged.
In November, 1911, Reid filed his libel in the District
Court of the United States for the Southern District of
New York against the Express Company to recover from
it the amount- of damage caused to the automobile.
Before anscering the Express Company, in conformity
to Admiralty Rule '59 of this court (210 U. S. 565) and
with Rule 15 in Admiralty for the Southern District of
New York,' filed two petitions, one against the Steamship Company and the other against Hogan & Sons,
to make them parties defendant on the ground that if
there was any liability on the part of the Express Company
'Rule 15 in admiralty of the United States District Court for the
Southern District of New York is as follows:
If a defendant shall, by petition on oath, filed before answer, or within
such further time as the court may allow, allege fault in any other
party, in respect of the matters complained of in the libel, or shall
allege that he is entitled to contribution or indemnity from any other
party in respect of such matters, and shall pray that such other party
be brought into the suit as a party defendant in analogy with the provisions of Admiralty Rule 59 of the Supreme Court, process on such
petition may be issued and the cause shall proceed otherwise as in cases
under the 59th Rule.

.REID v. AM. EXP. CO.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

on the libel of Reid, both the Steamship Company and
Hogan & Sons were responsible therefor, and asking a
decree over against each of them separately in case there
was any decree against the Express Company. Thereupon
the Express Company answered the original libel denying
responsibility on the ground among others that it was a
mere forwarder. Subsequently both Hogan & Sons and
the Steamship Company answered not only the petitions
of the Express Company making them parties defendant
but also the original libel, traversing the alleged liability
on various grounds. The latter company, however, referring to the limitation of liability to $100 in the bill of
lading which it had issued, admitted its responsibility
to that extent and alleged that the sum thereof had been
offered and declined.
In March, 1913, an interlocutory decree was entered
holding that Hogan & Sons were primarily responsible
and that the Express Company was secondarily so, and
that when the amount of the loss was ascertained Reid
would therefore have the right to recover the amount
from Hogan & Sons, and in addition to recover from the
Express Company any part of the sum which he was
unable to collect under execution from Hogan & Sons.
The final decree which thereafter fixed the amount at
$2,724.40 carried out the interlocutory decree. Nobody
appealed .from the interlocutory decree and the Express
Company did not appeal from the final decree fixing
its secondary liability. Hogan & Sons, however, did
appeal. The court below, considering that on the appeal
the case-was before it for a trial de novo and therefore that
the rights and liabilities of all the parties must be considered from that point of view, reversed the decree below
and held that error had been committed in the decree
rendered against Hogan & Sons, because the proof did
not establish that they had been negligent. As to the
Express Company it was also held that error had been

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 ,U. S.

committed in decreeing it to be liable secondarily because
in, receiving the automobile it had acted in the capacity
of a mere forwarder and had discharged its obligations
ii that respect. As to the decree which dismissed the
Steamship Company, it was held that error had been committed because that company as an insurer was liable,
not however exceeding the amount of $100, the limitation
stated in the bill of lading. As the result of the allowance
of a petition for certiorari the correctness of these conclusions is now before us for decision.
At the threshold it is insisted that the court below had
no authority to consider the case as before it for a new
trial, that is, de novo, and to award relief upon that theory,
and that consequently it erred in reviewing the interlocutory decree which was not appealed from by which the
Steamship Company was dismissed and allowing, a recovery against that. company, and also in reviewing both
the interlocutory and final decrees so far as it was essential
to grant relief to the Express Company because that ompany had not appealed. It is not denied that in the
Second Circuit the i'ight to a de novo trial was considered
as settled by Munson S. S. Line v. Miramar S. S. Co.,
Limited, 167 Fed. Rep. 960, and that a well-established
practice to that effect obtained, but it is insisted that a
general review of the adjudged cases on the subject will
show *the want of foundation for the rule and practice.
But we think this contention is plainly without merit
and that the right to a de novo trial in the court below
authoritatively resulted from the ruling in Irvine v. The
Hesper, 122 U. S. 256,-a conclusion which is' plainly
demonstrated by the opinion in that case and the authorities there cited and the long continued practice which has
obtained since that case was decided and the full and convincing review of the authorities on the subject contained
in the opinion in -the Miramar Case. Entertaining this
view, we do not stop to consider the various arguments

REID v. AM. EXP. CO.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

which are here pressed upon our attention tending at
least indirectly to establish the non-existence of the right
to the trial de novo in the court below or that this case for
reasons which are wholly unsubstantial may be distinguished and made an exception to the general rule, because to do so would serve no useful purpose and would
be at least impliedly to admit that there was room to discuss a question concerning which there was no room for
discussion whatever.
It is conceded that if the grounds relied upon to fix
liability as against the Express Company, the Steamship
Company and Hogan & Sons are established, there is a
right to an independent recovery as to each, whatever
may be the recourse of these parties to recover over as
against each other. Which of the defendants, if any, was
liable primarily for the loss, is then to be considered. We
first approach this question from the point of view of
Hogan & Sons, because undoubtedly that company was in
possession and control of the car at the time it dropped
into the river and was damaged. While there is some confusion and various slight contradictions in the testimony,
we are of the opinion that the trial court was right in
holding that the loss occurred through the fault of Hogan
& Sons, and therefore that the court below erred in reversing the decree against that company. And without undertaking to review the testimony, to all of which we have
given a careful consideration, we content ourselves with
briefly pointing out the general points of view which have
led us to the conclusion stated. Without saying that the
mere fact of the dropping of the automobile into the water
in the course of delivery from the ship's hold to the pier
serves to speak for itself on the issue of responsibility,
that is, to bring the case within the principle of res ipsa
loquitur, we are of the opinion that by analogy the case
well illustrates that rule for this reason: Some cause must
be found for the dropping of the car into the river, and only

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

two theories on this subject may be deduced from the
proof, either that the accident to the car occurred without
fault as the result of the breaking of the rope composing
the sling because of some unseen and hidden defect in
such rope, or that it was occasioned by some act of negligence or want of care in handling the car. The first, we
are of opinion, is without any substantial support in the
proof; in fact, to accept it would conflict with direct and
positive proof to the contrary. That view, therefore,
could only be sustained by substituting imagination for
-proof. The second, on the contrary, we are of opinion,
finds cogent support from the proof which could only be
escaped by overthrowing it by the process of imagination
to which we have just referred. It is unquestioned that
when the sling was put around the box containing the car
preparatory to attaching the hook in order to hoist it,
no blocks or other means were used to prevent the rope
from being worn or cut by the edges of the box. The
presumption that the rope was strong and efficient, arising from the fact that it held the weight of the box until
it was lifted above the hatch and until by the swinging
motion the danger of straining or cutting of the ropes upon
the edges was more likely to result, gives adequate ground
for the inference that such cutting and straining occurred
and led to the severance of the rope and the precipitation
of the car into the water. And this inference is supported
by various other circumstances which we do not stop to
recapitulate.
Were the Steamship Company. and the Express Company in the order stated liable to Reid, the libellant,
dependent upon his inability to make under execution
the amount of the decree from Hogan & Sons, is then the
only remaining question. In substance this question, however, is negligible since in the argument at bar it was conceded that T. Hogan & Sons, Incorporated, were amply
solvent and that there was no question of their ability

LANCASTER v. KATHLEEN OIL CO.
241 U. S.

Syllabus.

to respond to any decree which might be rendered against
them. To avoid, however, all miscarriage of right from
any possible, though improbable, change of conditions,
without going into detail or stating the considerations
which control our conclusion on the subject, we content
ourselves with saying, first, that as to the Steamship
Company we are of the opinion that on the failure to make
the amount of the decree against Hogan & Sons, the libellant will be entitled to recover over against that company
to the amount of $100, to which its liability was limited
as stated in the bill of lading under which the shipment
was made; second, that even looking upon the Express
Company as a forwarder, under the circumstances of the
case and the terms of the bill of lading under which the
car was shipped by that company, the trial court rightly
held it liable and that recovery against it on failure to
enforce the decree against Hogan & Sons will also obtain.
It follows that the decree below must be reversed and
the cause remanded to the trial court with directions to
set aside its decree in so far as it dismissed the Steamship
Company from the case and to enter a decree in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed and remanded.

LANCASTER v. KATHLEEN OIL COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF OKLAHOMA.
No. 336.

Submitted April 26, 1916.-Decided June 12, 1916.

As one not in possession may not maintain an action to quiet title,
and, as in Oklahoma, one may not maintain a suit in ejectment as
lessee under an oil or gas mining lease, an adequate remedy at law

