OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

taken by the court below; and such we believe is the true
view to be taken of. the statute. Regarded in this light, but
one interpretation can be placed upon the section quoted.
The power to remove is a power without limitations. The
power is granted in general terms, as well as the authority to
adopt such provisions as may be necessary to carry it into
execution. Full authority is given to the commission; and in
the absence of rules and regulations directing a different procedure, its act of summary dismissal cannot be challenged.
The jument is afflrmed.

BEATTY v. BENTON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF GEORGIA.
No. 279. Submitted April 18, 1890.-

Decided April 28,1890.

In this case, on a writ of error to review the judgment of the Supreme
Court of a State, it was held that no federal question, was involved,
because the case was decided by the state court on a ground broad
enough to maintain the judgment independently of any federal question;
and the writ was dismissed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

.Mr.Saem Dutcher for plaintiffs in error.
No appearance for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE BLATCHFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
On the 3d of May, 1854:, one Carrie executed and delivered
to Elijah D. Robertson, a white man, a warranty deed of a lot
of land in Augusta, Georgia, 82 feet 6 inches in widli by 200
feet in depth. The consideration expressed in the deed was
$600, and it conveyed to Robertson, his heirs and assigns, forever, the lot in question, in trust, nevertheless, to and for the
,nl. oau,hn6t
qncl ThPhnof of the followinar free persons of

BEATTY v.BENTON.
Opinion of the Court.

color, of Augusta, "to wit, Fanny Gardner, the wife of Thomas
Gardner, and their daughter, Frances Gardner, and any
future issue of the 'said Fanny by the said Thomas, and, in
case of the death of the said Frances and Fanny, in trust for
the next of kin of the said Thomas Gardner." The deed also
authorized Robertson, in case it should be deemed advisable
and to the interest of all concerned that a sale of the property should take place, to sell and make titles to it, provided
the consent of the said Frances and Fanny, their guardian or
guardians, should be first had and obtained.
In March, 1879, Fanny Gardner filed a bill in equity, in
the Superior Court of Richmond County, Georgia, setting
forth the purchase of the lot of land by Gardner from Carrie,
for $600, and the making of such deed; that Gardner, who
was her husband, and the father, by a former wife, of Frances
Gardner, who had intermarried with one Beatty, died in 1865;
that all of those persons were free persons of color; that, on
the 3d of May, 1854, Gardner and the plaintiff and Frances
took possession of the property; that afterwards, Frances
having married, Gardner divided tiae lot and erected a house
on a part of it for Frances; that the parties thus continued in
possession of the property until the death of Gardner; that
from that time Frances had remained in the possession of the
portion of the lot on which the house was erected for her use,
and the plaintiff had occupied the remaining part of the lot;
that the deed to Robertson was void, because at that time all
conveyances of real estate in Augusta to or for the use of free
persons of color residing therein were prohibited by law; that
the plaintiff acquired title to the property occupied by her,
by actual adverse possession of the same for twenty years,
and Frances had acquired title in the same way to the premises occupied by her; that the plaintiff desired to sell her part
of the property, but could not do so, because Frances claimed
that, under the terms of the trust deed, she owned a remainder
interest in the whole of the property, and the plaintiff had
only a life estate therein; and that the property could n6t be
sold except with the consent of Frances.
The bill prayed for a decree that the plaintiff owned a fee-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion -of the Court.

simple title to the portion of the lot so occupied by her; that
the trust deed be cancelled; that, if the court should hold that
the title of the plaintiff and of Frances was derived from seven
years' possession under the trust deed, as color of title, it
would decree that' the terms of such deed did not bind the
plaintiff or limit her title in the-property; that, if the plaintiff
did not have a fee simple title to the part in her possession,
she and Frainces might be decreed to be tenants in common
'of the entire property, -and the same might be divided by
commissioners, or be sold and the proceeds divided, share and
share alike, between the plaintiff apd Frances, and for general
relief.
The bill was afterwards amended by inserting an allegation
that the plaintiff furnished to Gardner at the time of the purchase one-half of the purchase money of the property, the
same -being the proceeds of her labor as a free person of color;
and furtherj that if the court held that the plaintiff acquired
no legal interest under the division of the lot by Gardner, in
the part .which he gave to her and on which she had since
lived, and no interest that could ripen by prescription, then
Gardner died in possession'of all of the lot, leaving the plaintiff and Frances as his only heirs; that such heirs had, by tacit
consent, actually occupied, held and. claimed the portions so
divided to them by Gardner, from the time of his death; and
that Gardner made no will and left no other heirs.
Frances, being then the wife of one Davis, answered the
bill, denying that the. property was ever divided between her
and the plaintiff by Gardner, or since his death, otherwise
than that Gardner built another house for her on the property,
for convenience, because she was married and had many children; and that her title and that of the plaintiff was that of
co-ceduis que trU8t for. life, with remainder over to the children of Frances who should be living at the termination of
such equitable life estate.
By way of cross-bill, the answer averred, that, before January 1, 1863, no proceedings were ever instituted to escheat
the property as being conveyed for the benefit of free persons
of color; that, by section 2627 of the Code of Georgia, becom-

BEATTY v. BENTON.
Opinion of the Court.

ing of force on January 1, 1863, it was declared that escheat
should lie only on failure of heirs; that by the act of Georgia
of March 17, 1866, free persons of color were vested with all
the property rights of white persons; that among those rights
was that to a prescriptive title by adverse possession for seven
years under written evidence of title; that by.possession adverse to all the world, under the trust deed, for seven years
and more prior to the bringing of the bill, the plaintiff and
Frances had a good prescriptive title to the property under
.the limitations of the deed, and had an equitable life estate
in common,. with remainder in fee, on their death, to the next
of kin of Gardner; that Frances had six children then living,
two of them by her first husband, Beatty, one of horn was
an adult and the other a minor, and four of them byher husband, Davis, all of whom were minors, such six children being
the next of kin after Frances to Gardner, their grandfather;
and that Gardner had no issue by the plaintiff,
The answer prayed that the court might declare the trust to,
be valid, and appoint a trustee to hold the property for the
joint use and benefit of the plaintiff and the defendant during
their lives, or the life of either of them, angl, at the termination of such lives, to convey the property to such children of
the defendant as might then be living, and, should there be
none such, then to whoever should be next of kin to Gardner;
and that the adult son of the defendant be made a defendant, with a guardian ad litem to be appointed for her minor
children.
The answer was afterwards amended by averring that Gardner died in November, 1865; that from the date of the trust
deed to that time the plaintiff and the defendant and Gardner
resided together on the -lot, being in occupation of it under
and by virtue only of the -trust deed; that, from the time
Gardher died until the bringing of the suit, the plaintiff and
the defendant continued to occupy the lot; that more than
sevenyears elapsed from the death of Gardner to the bringing of the suit; that under the laws of Georgia, as they existed
from the date of the trust deed, any instrument in writing purporting to convey a iitlb to land, even if void, was good as.,

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

color of title, and, adverse possession of the land thereunder
for seven yearsgave- a good title by prescription to the land;
that, under the first section of the act of Congress of April 9,
1866, all persons within the jurisdiction of the United States
became entitled to the equal benefit. of all laws and proceedings for the security of ,person and property as was enjoyed
by white citizens, and all-citizens of- the United States became.
entitled in every Sate to the same rights as were enjoyed by
the white citizens thereof, as respected real and personal property; that, under the first section of the 14th article of
amendment to the Constitution of the United States, it was
provided that no State should make or enforce any law which
should abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the
United States, nor deprive any person of lif'e, liberty, or property without due process of law, nor deny to any person within
its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws; -that under
said act of Congress and said amendment the defendant became entitled to the same rights, as to prescriptive title by
possession. under color of title, as any white person; that
under said act of Congress and said amendment, the act of
Georgia of December 19, 1818, and -that of December 22,
1819, could not be lawfully enforced as against the rights of
the defendant under the trust deed as color of title, even if
the deed were originally void; and .that, undei said act of
Congress and the 14th amendment, the plaintiff and the defendant, under the trust deed, and their occupancy of the lot
thereunder for seven years after the death of Gardner, had an
equitable life estate in common in the lot, with remainder in
fee to the next of kin of Gardner.
. The answer was also amended by averring that the claim
of the plaintiff that she had furnished to Gardner, at the time
of the purchase, one-half of the purchase money of the property, was barred by the statute of limitations, the claim being
first asserted by An amendment to the bill, made June 28,
1884, more than thirty years after the purchase of the property by- Gardner; and that the plaintiff was estopped by
laches from asserting such/claim.
A guardian ad litem was appointed for the minors, and he

BEATTY v. BENTON.
Opinion of the Court.

and the adult Beatty were made defendants. The case was
tried by a jury. The court at the trial charged the jury as
follows: "Under the law in force at the time of making thisdeed, free persons of color could not hold real estate, and the
deed from Carrie to Gardner in trust was absolutely void; and
the fact that the war and its results, as declared by the constitution of the United States and the acts of our own legislature,
have put all colored persons on the same footing with white
persons, does not and cannot make the laws invalid or validate
any title acquired under them, and no continuance of possession for any number of years by the wife and daughter under
this void deed can ripen it into a good fitle. The transaction
being illegal and void, no act of either and no post-war enact-

ments can galvanize it into life. If you believe that Thomas
Gardner paid Carrie for this land, it being admitted that there
were no proceedings before 1860 to escheat this property, and
remained in possession of the land until after the close of the
war, and died in November, 1865, then, notwithstanding the
law which made a trust deed void, and he died in possession of
the land, the wife and daughter took this estate by inheritance
absolutely, each being entitled to one-half. If the evidence
does not show that, but shows that Thomas Gardner paid the
purchase money and went into possession, and then divided the
lot between Fanny and Frances, and that they both went into
possession and remained in possession nlil 'after the war
closed and are still in possession, Frances is estopped from denying the title of Fanny to the one-half now claimed by her;
so that you see that my view of the law is that the trust deed
cannot be enforced or be made the basis of any 'title. If,
therefore, you find for the complainant, Fanny, you may
appoint three discreet persons to make the division of the lot,
providing for a sale in case no division of the kind can be made."
The defendants requested the court to charge the jury as
follows, which requests were declined: "2. If you find, from
the evidence in this case, that Thomas Gardner bought this
land for the joint use of Fanny and Frances during their lives,
and at their death to go to his next of kin, and had the deed
of 1S54 made to carry out this purpose, and that Frances and

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

Fanny entered on the occupancy of the land by virtue of the
deed, and were in the occupancy of the laud under the deed at
the time free persons of color became entitled to equal property rights under the law with white persons, and remained in
such possession and occupancy for seven years thereafter, then
I charge you that, even if the deed itself were void, they
obtained a good prescriptive title such as set out in the
deed- that is, a good prescriptive title to the joint use and
enjoyment of the land during their lives. The fact that the
deed was void, or that Fanny or Frances were free persons of
color, in nowise prevents such a prescriptive title as stated
accruing to them, if the evidence shows the facts above stated.
3. Whenever two persons are from any cause entitled to the
possession simultaneohsly ot any property in this State, they
are tenants in common, and each entitled to the use and
enjoyment of one-half of the common property, and are each
liable for one-half of the burdens imposed by law on the
common property, such as taxes. If, therefore, you find, from
the evidence in this case, that Fanny and Frances became
simultaneously entitled to the possession of this property, they
were tenants in common, equally entitled to its benefits and
equally liable for its burdens. If you find that one lived on
one half and one on the other, this is nothing more than the
law entitled them to; and if one paid the taxes on her half
and the other on hers, this is nothing but what the law
required them to do. The fact of one living on one half and
the other on the other, or of one paying the taxes on one half
and the other the taxes on the other, no matter how long this
was kept up, would not give either one a fee-simple title to the
particular half on which she lived and paid taxes. At the end
of half a century they would still be tenants in common, each
having the right to possess the joint property and to use and
enjoy one-half of it. No tenant in common can set up an
exclusive right by prescription against his cotenant in the
whole or any part of the property, unless he actually ousts
his cotenant, or expressly notifies his cotenant that he holds
adversely to his rights, or unless he assumes exclusive possessian of the whole property, and refuses to admit his cotenant

BEATTY v. BENTON.
Opinion of the Court.

to his rightful participation, after the cotenant demands such
admission. If, therefore, you find that Frances and Fanny
became simultaneously entitled to the use and enjoyment of
this lot, they were tenants in common and are so still, unless
you find that Fanny has taken-some of the steps above mentioned against Frances, and followed it up with adverse
possession for seven years under color of title or twenty years
without it. 4. The next of kin to Thomas Gardner, as the
words are used in the deed of 1851, mean his nearest blood
relations after his own -child Frances. A man's nearest blood
relations after his own children are his grandchildren.
Thomas Gardner's grandchildren are parties respondent to
this bill. If Fanny and Frances are tenants in common for
life in this land, these grandchildren, should they outlive them,
would be entitled to the land, share and share alike. Fanny
claims that she has a fee-simple interest in a part of this land,
by possession thereof for twenty years, and consequently there
is no remainder in this part for the next of kin. You cjunot
find that Fanny has a fee-simple interest in any paort of this
land by adverse possession for twenty years. unless you find
that she has been in such possession of such part for the full
period of twenty years from the time that free persons of
color became vested in this State with the same property
rights as white persons. 5. If you find that a good prescriptive title has arisen under this trust deed, the effect is, that
Fanny and Frances will each be entitled for life to the use and
enjoyment of one-half of the property, and at their death it
goes to the next of kin of Thomas Gardner. If you find .that
Fanny has a fee-simple interest in that part of the lot whereon
she now resides, the next of kin of Thomas have no rights
whatever therein. Fanny xnay dispose of it while living as
she pleases, and if she dies intestate it would T6 to her next
of kin. 6. If you find, from the evidence, that the complainant did not set up any claim to the property in dispute, by
having furnished part of the purchase money, until twenty
years had expired from the time the purchase was made, I
charge you that she is now barred by the statute of limitations from setting up title to the property, for that, reason."

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

-The jury found the following verdict: "We, the jury, find
for the complainant the exclusive right and fee-simple title to
that portion of said property now occupied by her." The
defendants moved for a new trial, alleging as grounds therefor error on the part of the court in charging the jury as set
forth, and in refusing to charge them as requested. The
motiol for a iew trial was overruled, and a judgment was
entered to that effect. The defendants excepted to the judgment, and a bill of exceptions was made and certified to the
Supreme Court of Georgia, to which the defendants took the
case by a writ of error. The plaintiff having died, leaving a
will which was duly admitted to probate, her executrix and
sole legatee, Georgia Benton, was made a party in her place.
The case was heard in the Supreme Court, and it affirmed the
judgment of the Superior Court of Richmond County, in an
opinion reported in 73 Georgia, 187, which was as follows:
"This is a bill filed by Fanny Gardner against Frances Beatty
and children, to settle her title to one-half of a lot in Augusta,
occ'upied by her, while Frances occupied the other half. The
lot was bought by Thomas Gardner, deceased, in 1854, and
one-half the purchase money was paid by him, and the other
half by complainant, who was his wife. Frances, the defendant, was the daughter, by a former wife, of deceased, and
married Beatty afterwards. Up to that time the lot was one,
only one house being on it; then it became crowded and was
divided, and a house built for Beatty and wife, who occupied
it ever since. All the parties were free persons of color before
the war. When the purchase was made in 1854, a deed was
taken to the property in the name of Robertson, trustee, a
white person, to the use of Fanny and- Frances for life,
and then to the next of kin of Thomas Gardner. If that trust
deed was valid when made, the complainant only had a life
estate, and having died and left a will since this writ of error
was brought, she and her executrix now can take nothing. So
that the verdict and decree, being that she shall keep the half
set apart to her in the division, and so long in her possession,
is wrong, if that trust deed be operative.
"1. Under the decision of this court in Swoll et al. v. Oliver

BEATTY v. BENTON.
Opinion of the Court.

et al., 61 Georgia, 248, that deed, as the law of Georgia stood
in 1854, was void. So, in Planters'-oam and Savings Bank
v. Joknson, 70 Georgia, 302, (an Augusta case,) the same point
is decided emphatically, based on the act of 1818, Cobb's
Digest, p. 993. Therefore, the trust deed is out of the way.
"2. When the law freed slaves in Georgia and put free
persons of color, as to real property, on the same footing as
whites, this lot, as divided, was in possession of these two
colored women, a moiety with a house on it, erected by the
husband and father, in possession of each. The primary element of title, possession, being thus in each, and the State
never having escheated the property whilst the old law stood,
this possession is good against the claim of all others, and the
verdict and decree giving each her several share is right.
"3. The decree is all the more equitable, because complainant paid.one-half of the purchase money. Cases of this sort,
under the anomalous condition. of such prolerty remaining in
the possession of a class of persons who could not formerly
hold title thereto, should be adjudicated under broad views of
natural equity.
"There is nothing in the minor points made by the able
and indefatigable counsel for plaintiffs in error which can
unsettle the result which the above principles necessitate, we
think, as the law of this case. Judgment affirmed." To
review such judgment of affirmance the defendants have
brought a writ of error.
We are of opinion that this writ must be dismissed, because
no federal question is involved. The Supreme Court of Georgia decided that, if the trust deed was valid when made, the
plaintiff took under it only a life estate, and that that had
ceased by her death; that the deed, however, was void under
the Statute of Georgia which existed when the deed was made
in 1854; that, therefore, the trust deed was entirely out of the
way; that at the time it became the law of Georgia that 'free
persons of color were put, as to real property, on the same footing as white persons, each of the two.women was in possession
of a part of the lot, each part having a house upon it; that, as
the State had never enforced an escheat of the property, such

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

possession of each of the parties was good against the claim
of all other persons; and that, therefore, the verdict and judgment, which gave to each her several share in fee-simple title
to the part of the property which was in her occupation, was
right.
We see nothing in these conclusions of the state court which
raises any federal question. The construction of the trust
deed, and the question of its validity under the statutes of
Georgia of 1818 and 1819, were matters for the exclusive decision of the Supreme Court of that State; and the case was
decided upon the rights of the parties as they existed by virtue of the acts of. Gardner, and of their own acts, during his
lifetime,oand as they stood at the time of his death in 1865,
and thereafter, down to the bringing of this suit in 1879. The
rights thus adjudicaied existed and were passed upon independently of the act of Congress referred to, and of the 14th
amendment to the Constitution, and were not, and could not
be, affected by a'ny provisions thereof. The case was decided
against the plaintiffs in error on an independent ground, not
involving a federal question, and broad enough to maintain
the judgment. In such a case, even though the state court
also decides a federal question against the plaintiffs in error,
this court dismisses the writ of error without considering the
federal question.
cMarron v. .Brinkley, 129 U. S. 178, 181;
Hale v. Akers, 132 U. S. 554, 565, and cases there cited ; San
F'anciscov. _tsell, 133 U. S. 65, 66; Hopkins v. JfcLure, 133
U. S. 380, 386.

Writ of error disnised.

