OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

DES MOIN-ES AND FORT DODGE RAILROAD COMPANY v. WABASH, ST. LOUIS AND PACIFIC
RAILWAY COMPANY.
AXPPEAL

FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF IOWA.
No. 256.

Argued April 11, 1890. -Decided

May 19, 1890.

A contract by a railroad company, chartered to construct a railroad between two points, made with another railroad company for the use of
the road of the lattei for a part of the distance for a period of years,
in order to complete the connection proposed by the charter, and providing that the contract and any damages accruing from a breach of it
shall be a continuing lien upon the roads of the two contracting parties,
their equipment and income, into whosesoever hands they may come,
creates no lien on the property of the first company which will take precedence of a mortgage executed after a breach of the contract prior
to the expiration of the term has taken place.

IN EQUITY.

The case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Charles E. White]ead for appellant.
Mr. William Bush Taggart and .Xr. Wells 1Y Blodgett for
appellees.
MR. JUSTICE MrLLER

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal frbmo a decree of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of Iowa, dismissing
the intervention by appellant in a large and more important
suit involving the sale of a railroad owned by the Des Moines
and 1Northwestern Railway Company. As the petition of
intervention is the first paper found in the record of the case
before us, we are somewhat at a loss to understand the nature
and character of the original suit in which the appellant
sought to intervene. It is to be inferred, however, that the
original suit was by the Central Trust Company of New
York against the Des Moines and Northwestern Railway

DES MOINES ID

CO. v. WABASH R'Y CO.

577

Opinion of the Court.

Company, formerly the Des Moines, Adel and Western Railroad Company, to foreclose a mortgage in which that com
pany was mortgagor and the Central Trust Company was
trustee or mortgagee. The Wabash, St. Louis and Pacific'
Railway Company was also party to that suit, on the ground
that it had a lease of the road of the Des Moines and Northwestern Railway Company, under which it asserted rights
paramount to everybody except the Central Trust Company.
The Des Moines and Northwestern Railway Company was
originally chartered as the Des Moines, Adel and Western
Railroad Company, with the purpose of building a .railroad
from the city of Des Moines, in the State of Iowa, ina northwesterly direction, to Panora, in the county of Guthrie. The
appellants' road from Des Moines to Fort Dodge pursued the
same line in a northwesterly direction from Des Moines City
to Waukee, which was the point of the departure of the Adel
road in its more westerly direction. The Fort Dodge Company, having completed its road from the city of Des Moines
almost entirely to Fort Dodge before the Adel Company had
fairly commenced its work, the former had a part of its road
running between Waukee and the city of Des Moines, which
was a very considerable railroad centre.
As the Adel Company was limited in its means and desired
to push its road westward from Waukee through Adel to
Panora, it was natural that it should enter into arrangements
with the Des Moines and Fort Dodge Company for the use
of its road from Waukee to Des Moines, or for a traffic arrangement. It accordingly, on the 18th of November, 1879,
entered into the following agreement in u riting, which is the
foundation of the claim in regard to which the Des Moines
and Fort Dodge Railroad Company intervenes in the suit
already mentioned:
"This agreement, made the 18th day of November, 1879,
between the Des Moines and Fort Dodge Railroad Company,
of the one part, called for convenience the Des 'Moines Company, and the Des Moines, Adel and Western Railroad Corn
pany, called for convenience the Adel Company, witnesseth :
"That the Des Moines Company, being desirous of obtainVOL. cxxxv-37

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

ing all the Des Moines business of the Adel Company for a
long term of years, in consideration of the contract on the
part of the Adel Company hereinafter contained, doth hereby
agree and covenant with the Adel Company and grant and
give unto it the following easements, rights and privileges, as
follows:
"First. Out of the earnings on all through business from
the Adel road delivered to the Des Moines road, and by it
delivered to the Rock Island road, and on all west-bound business delivered to the Adel road at Waukee, the Adel road
shall have five-sevenths (4), and the Des Moines road shall
have and retain two-sevenths (-2), the local freight for the Adel
road on west-bound business being included, but these divisions not to apply to business from beyond Panora.
"Second. On the freight on all local business from Des
Moines to any point on the Adel road, or from any point on
the Adel road to Des Moines, the Adel road shall receive twothirds (1), while the Des Moines road shall receive one-third
(J), including the local freight on both roads, but freight from
beyond Panora not to be included.
"Third. All car-loads of freight coming from or going to
any point on the Adel road beyond Panora shall be hauled by
the Des Moines road from Waukee to Des Moines, or from
Des MIoines to-Waukee, at five dollars ($5.00) the car-load,
standard-gauge cars,. and the Adel road shall be entitled to
receive all the freights and draw-backs earned thereon. In
case through freights shall hereafter be reduced from what
they are now, a proportionate reduction shall be made on the
rate of hauling.
"Fourth. On all passenger business tak6n at the regular
tariff rates from the Adel road to or from Des Moines' the
Des Moines road will pay over to the Adel road one-tenth (-)
of its receipts therefrom.
"Fifth. The Des Moines road will allow the Adel road the
joint use of all its station-houses and station facilities at Waukee
on its paying its proportion for its maintenance, to be arranged
by the superintendents of the two roads.
"Sixth. The Adel road to have equal privileges at Des

DES MOINES R'D CO. v. WABASH 1y CO.
Opinion of the Court.

Moines and equal rates on all construction material with those
enjoyed by the Des Moines road, and every facility or rate or
increased rate obtained from the Rock Island road shall be enjoyed and shared by the Adel road, and the Des Moines road
will haul its construction material at half its local rates from
Des Moines to Waukee i this to apply to all material hauled
since the first of July last.
"Seventh. Uniform rates shall be maintained by both
roads at all competitive points and both roads shall join in
requiring the Rock Island to do the same, as far as able, and
if the Rock Island shall persistently and continuously refuse
to maintain such uniform rates in accordance with Mr. Riddle's
letter of this date, which is made a part of this contract, at
such competitive points, then the Adel road may, by giving
thirty (30) days' notice in writing of its intention so to do,
terminate this contract.
"Eighth. If the Des Moines road accounts to the Adel road
for forty per cent of the through earnings on through freight,
although its share of the through earnings should hereafter
be reduced to a less amount, this agreement to continue, and
in the event of its failure to do so the Adel road to have the
righ-tto terminate this contract upon thirty days' notice in
writing.
"Ninth. It is agreed that if the Des Moines road shall at
any time lease or transfer its through business at Des Moines
to any other than the Rock Island railroad the Adel road
shall have the privilege then to terminate this contract by
giving thirty days' notice in writing of its intention so to do.
"Tenth. The Des Moines agrees that in case any railroad
shall be built or operated by it or by the Rock Island on the
territory west of the Des Moines road, south of the "Northwesttrn rQad, and east of the projected line of the R6ck
Island from Guthrie Centre to Guthrie, then the Adel road
inay terminate this contract on giving thirty days' notice in
writing.
"Eleventh. Settlements and adjustments under this contract shall be made monthly on the first day of every month,
unless otherwise agreed on.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

"Twelfth. In consideration of the foregoing the Adel road
hereby agrees to deliver to the cars of the Des Moines road
at Waukee all its freight and passengers bound to Des Moines
or to any place through Des Moines and beyond for the
.period of-twenty years from this date.
"This contract and any damages for the breach of same
shall be a continuing lien upon the roads of the two contracting companies, their equipment and income, in whosesover
hands they may come, the lien on the Adel road being limited
to so much thereof as lies between Waukee and Panora.
"Tim DES JMOINES AND FORT DODGE
RAILROAD COMPANY,

"By

CHARLES E.
"THE

WHITEHEAD,

DES MOINES, ADEL

Pp'e8't.
& WESTON

RAILROAD COMPNY,

"By T. J.

COLDWELL,

P'e8't.

J. 'S. RUNNELLS, 8ec'y."

After the execution of this agreement, the Des Moines,
Adel and Western Railroad Company pushed its road north, estward from Waukee to Panora, and then adopted.a new

route almost directly north from Panora, but which it -never
completed. It, however, subsequently- entered into arrangements with the Wabash, St. Louis and Pacific Railway Company, by which that company, under the charter of the Adel
Company, constructed the piece of road between Des Moines
and Waukee, and leased that and the remainder of the Adel
and Western Railroad Company, so that all the traffic provided for in the contract as coming from the Adel Company
to the Des Moines and Fort Dodge Company was transferred
in effect to the Wabash Company. The object of the present
petition of intervention was not to recover any money actually earned by the intervening company or the other, for all
of that carrying business was settled up and paid for as it progressed, but it was to recover the damages to which the interveners might be entitled during the remainder of the twenty
years which the contract had to run by the failure on the part
of the Adel Company to keep that contract. The appellant

DES MOINES R'D CO. v. WABASH RIY CO.
Opinion of the Court.

was permitted to file its claim of intervention, which was
amended once or twice, and was finally heard on demurrers
on the part of the Des Moines and Northwestern Company,
and the Central Trust Company, and the Wabash, St. Louis'
and Pacific Company, which demurrers were sustained, and
the petition of intervention was dismissed.
The right of the Des Moines and Fort Dodge Company to
intervene in this suit is based upon the last sentence in the
contract which we have given in full. - The language of thissentence is: "This contract and any damages for the breach
of same shall be a continuing lien upon the roads of the two
contracting companies, their equipment and income, in whosesoever hands they may come, the lien on the Adel road being
limited to so much thereof as lies between Waukee and
Panora." The interveners allege that for the supposed gain
and profits which they would make out of this contract if it
were faithfully kept for the period of twenty years from its
date, they have a lien on the railroad itself, and on its equipment and income, which attaches to it in whosesover hands it
might come after that contract was made.
The appellees resist this principle on two grounds. First,
that the contract, so far as it disables the Adel Railroad Company from the free use of all the means of railroad carriage
from any part of its road to the city of Des Moines, is void as
against public policy, and is especially void as a contract
which in its nature disables that road from performing the
public obligations issumed by it in its charter, of making and
using as a common carrier the road from -Waukee to Des
Moines or from Des Moines to Waukee. A second -objection
is, that whatever the language concerning the lien upon the
two contracting companies may mean, it does not constitute
a lien or obligation running with the land, though it may be
a valid contract between the parties, personally enforceable
by an action at law. Either of these 6bjections, if well'taken,
is fatal to-the claim of appellant, and we are of opinion, without inquiring into the former, that the latter objection is well
taken.
It will be observed that this contract does not purport to be

.582

OCTOBER TERM, -1889.
Opinion of the Court.

a mortgage on the railroad of the Adel Company; that it does
not convey in proper terms any title to the railroad itself or
to its appurtenances, or any interest in them; and that it does
not secure, as a lien upon the roads, any particular sum of
money. It declares that the contract and any damages from
a breach of the same shall be a continuing lien upon the roads
of the two contracting companies. It is difficult to conceive
how the contract, abstractly considered, could be a lien upon
the roads of the companies, and not much easier to see what
damages for the breach of such contract are made a lien
upon the roads of the two companies. There is nothing in the
language of this sentence, nor in the nature of the contract,
which should make it one running with the land, or one,
chargeable upon the railroad, when by due course of law, or
in any other mode, the property passed to other hands. And
if, in point of fact, the one company had performed services
under that contract for the other, for which it had received no
compensation, and for which there was a sum of money due,
and ascertained or readily ascertainable, this sum might be a
lien on the income or property of the delinquent company, it
can hardly be supposed that the conjectural damages and the
speculative p.'ofits which might yet result to the company
from the unperformed part of the contract, through eighteen
or twenty years, are to be made a specific lien on the property,
attached to it and passing into the hands of whoever might
become its purchaser.
When the Adel Company, under its new name of the Des
Moines and Northwestern Company, exdcuted a mortgage on
all its property and issued bonds under that mortgage, under
which the Central Trust Company of Ner York, as trustee,
issued a large amount of bonds, the title to the property
passed to that corporation without having attached to it the
lien of the contract for a traffic arrangement between the Adel
Company and the appellafilt, and the same thing is true in
regard to the lease of February 28th, 1881, between the Des
Moines Northwestern Railway Company, formerly the Adel
Company, and the Wabash, St. Louis and Pacific Company,
by which the latter assumed to pay the damages under the

DES MOINES R'D CO. v. WABASH R'Y CO.
Opinion of the Court.

contract with appellant or to save the former harmless in
regard to it. This was a mere personal obligation, and did
not confer any right in the land, to enforce the performance
of that contract. As the Wabash Company by virtue of.this
lease undertook to complete the connection bet~reen the Adel
road, and its western extension from Panora to Waukee, and
the city of*Des Moines, by building the.road between the two
latter points, a duty which, by its charter, devolved upon the
Adel Company, we think it might very- well have contracted
to save the company harmless in regard to the lease which in
effect enabled it to complete its, obligation to the public.
It seems to us that the obligation of the Adel Company to fulfil the duties of its charter by completing its connection between
Waukee and Des Moines City was an obligation inconsistent
with a perpetual contract to employ the Fort Dodge Railroad
to do all its carrying business between those two points; that
the building of this piece of road was inconsistent with a contract for a long perkod of time, such as twenty years, by which
it bound itself to d liver all its' freight and passengbrs to the
Fort Dodge Company at Waukee. And, since the Fort Dodge
Company has received compensation for all the services it.
rendered while this contract was in operation, we are of opinion'that its claim for damages, which resulted from the determination of the Adel Company to build its own road from
Waukee to Des Moines, ,and the actual building of that road,
and the necessary abandonment of its contract with the Fort
Dodge Company, do not constitute a lien upon the road of
the compahy, and that the bill Was rightfully dismissed.
,Decree,affirmed.

