IN

RE LANE.
Syllabus.

ciently favorable to the defendant. Baltimore & Potomac
Railroadv. FOfth Baptist Church, 108 U. S. 317; Buccleuch
v. Metropolitan Board of Works, L. R. 5 H. L. 418.
As the damages recovered appear by the bill of exceptions,
made part of the record, to have been assessed to the time of
trial, the judgment in this case may be a bar to any subsequent action, at least for damages suffered before that time.
Hussner v. Brooklyn Railroad,114 N. Y. 433, 438; WTarner
v. Bacon, 8 Gray, 397, 402; Goslii v. Corry, 7TMan. & Gr.
342, 345; S. C. 8 Scott N. IR. 21, 24. But that point is not
Judgment aftrlmned.
now presented for adjudication.
Mr. JUSTiCE BREWER, not having been a member of the court
when this case was argued, took no part in the decision.

IN IRE LANE, Petitioner.
ORIGINAL.
No. 12. Original.

Argued April 15, 1890. -Decided

April 28,1890.

This court can issue a writ of habeas corpus in the exercise of its original
jurisdiction only when the inferior court has acted without jurisdiction,
or when it has exceeded its powers to the prejudice of the party seeking
relief.
At the time when the indictment in this case was found Oklahoma was not
a territory with an organized system of government, in the sense in
which the word "territories" is used in the act of February 9, 1889, 25
Stat. 658, ยง 120.
An indictment was so framed as to permit it to be construed as charging
the common law offence of rape, (as it alleged the carnal knowledge
to have been without the consent of the woman,) or the statutory
offence, (Act of Feb. 9, 1889, 25 Stat. 658, c. 120) of carnally and
unlawfully knowing a female under sixteen years of age, (as .it
alleged that the woman was under sixteen years of age). It was not
signed by the District Attorney of the United States. No motion was
made to compel the prosecuting attorney to elect on which charge he
would try the prisoner. The court instructed the jury that the allegations respecting the will of the woman might be rejected as surplusage,
and the rest of the indictment be good under the statute. The jury
found the prisoner guilty of the statutory offence, and judgment was
entered accordingly ; Held,

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.
(1) That there was no error in the ruling of the court;
(2) That this conviction could be set up against a pending indictment
for the same offence, charged to have been committed in violation of the statute;
(3) That the signature of the District Attorney to the indictment was
not necessary;
(4) That it was immaterial whether there was or was not error in any
of these matters, as none went to the jurisdiction.

THis was a. petition for a writ of habeas corpus. The case is
stated in the opinion.
M. I. J May for the petitioner. M~r. William ff. Bandopk and -Mr. A. H Garland were with him on the brief.
Mr. Solicitor General opposing.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a petition by Charles Mason Lane, addressed to the
original jurisdiction of this court, for a writ of habeas corpus.
Upon the filing of the petition a rule was issued upon Charles
H. Case, warden of the penitentiary of the State of Kansas,
who, it was alleged, held the petitioner in unlawful imprisonnient. Case made a return to this rule, in which he said that
the prisoner was held under a mittimus issued from the office
of the clerk of the District Court of the United States in and
for the District of Kansas, and accompanying the return was
a certified copy of the proceedings in that court under which
Lane was held. From this it appears that the following inJictment was found in that court at its September term, 1889:
"The United States of America, District of Kansas, ss:
"In the District Court of the said United States in and for the
said district, September term, 1889.
"The United States of America
VS.

"Charles Lane whose more full chris- Indictment for rape.
tian name is unknown.
"At the term of the District Court of the United States of
America in and for the said District of Kansas, begun and held

IN RE LANE.
Opinion of the Court.

at Wichita, in said district, on the 2d day September, in the
year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and eighty-nine,
the grand jurors of the United States of America duly empanelled and sworn and charged to inquire of offences committed within that part of the said district lying north of the
Canadian River and east of Texas and the one hundredth
meridian, not set apart and occupied by the Cherokee, Creek,
and Seminole Indian tribes, upon their oaths do find and
present that Charles Lane, whose more full christian name is
to the grand jurors aforesaid unknown, late of that part of
the public domain acquired by the United States of America
by the act of Congress approved March 2, 1889, commonly
known as Oklahoma and being a part of the district of Kansas
aforesaid, on or about the 4th day of July, in the year of our
Lord one thousand eight hundred and eighty-nine, at that part
of the district of Kansas aforesaid, the same being a place
and district of country under the exclusive jurisdiction of the
United States and within the exclusive jurisdiction of this
court, with force of arms in and upon one Frances M. Skeed,
a female under the age of sixteen years, then and there being,
violently and feloniously did hake an assault, and her, the
said Frances M. Skeed, then and there, forcibly and against
her will, feloniously did ravish and carnally know, against the
peace and dignity of the United States of America, and contrary to the form of the statute in such cases made and provided.
"E. IIAGA_, As't U. S. Atty.
"[Endorsed:] No.-; The United States v. Charles Lane;
rape, sec. 5345; J. Hoopes, foreman; a true bill, J. Hoopes,
foreman; witnesses, Win. H. Skeed (Oklahoma City, I. T.),
Frances M. Skeed, Dr. L W. Benipe, N. T. Ross, Rosa Skeed,
Dr. I. C. Hunter (Dodd City, Texas); filed September 6,
1889; J. C. Wilson, clerk."
Under the plea of not guilty, a trial was had on this indictment, in which the jury rendered the following verdict: -" We,
the jury in the above-entitled cause duly empanelled and sworn,

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

upon our oaths find the defendant guilty of carnal and unlawful knowledge of Frances M. Skeed, a female under the age of
sixteen years, as charged in the indictment." A motion for a
new trial and in arrest of judgment was made, heard and overruled, and the following sentence pronounced by the court:
"Thereupon it is now by the court here considered, ordered
and adjudged that said defendant be imprisoned in the Kansas
penitentiary for the period of five years. It is further ordered
that the marshal deliver, or cause to be dMlivered, the body of
said Charles Lane to the warden of said penitentiary within
ten days from this date."
Some kind of certificate appears to have been made after this
to transfer the case to the Circuit Court of the United States,
where it came before Brewer, Circuit Judge, who delivered an
opinion in it concurring informally with the judgment of the
District Court, which is found as an appendix to the brief of
the counsel for the government.
The counsel for petitioner has argued the case before us
as if every error that may possibly be found in the ruling of
the District Court in the progress of the case was a sufficient
ground to release the prisoner on this writ of habeas corpus.
It has been often reiterated in this court that the writ of
habeas eorpus cannot be converted into a. writ of error, and
that this court, when asked to issue a writ of habeas corpus
as of its original jurisdiction, can do so only when the inferior court has acted without jurisdiction, or has exceeded its
powers to the prejudice of the party seeking relief.
There is really but one question out of the several grounds of
relief sought in this case that is a proper subject for this court.
By the act of Congress approved February 9, 1889, c.- 120,
25 Stat..658, under which defendant is indicted and convicted,
it is provided: "That every person who shall carnally and
-dnlawfully know any female under the age of sixteen years,
or who shall be accessory to such carnal and unlawful knowledge before the fact, in the District of Columbia or other
place, except the terrtories,over which the United States has
exclusive jurisdiction; or on any vessel within the admiralty
or maritime jurisdiction of the United States, and out of the'

IN RE LANE.
Opinion of the Court.

jurisdiction of any State or Territory, shall be guilty of a
felony, and when convicted thereof shall be punished by
imprisonment at hard labor, for the first offence for not more
than fifteen years, and for each subsequent offence not more
than thirty years."
* The offence with which the petitioner is here charged is
alleged in the indictment to have been committed within that
part of the Indian Territory commonly known as Oklahoma,
and it is alleged in the indictment that this is a district of
country under the exclusive jurisdiction of the United States
and within the jurisdiction of the District Court of Kansas.
The counsel for prisoner contend that this is a territory within
the exception of the act of Congress of 1889; that therefore
this act does not apply to the case; and that, there being no
other act of Congress punishing a party for carnal and unlawful knowledge of a female under the age of sixteen years, the
court was without jurisdiction to try or to sentence the prisoner. But we think the words " except the territories" have
reference exclusively to that system of organized government
long existing within the United States, by which certain
regions of the country have been erected into civil governments. These governments have an executive, a legislative
and a judicial system. They have the powers which all these
departments of government have exercised, which are conferred upon them by act of Congress, and their legislative acts
are subject to the disapproval of the Congress of the United
States. They are not in any sense independent governments;
they have no Senators in Congress and no representatives in
the lower house of that body, except what are called delegates, with limited functions. Yet they exercise nearly all
the powers of government, under what are generally called
organic acts passed by Congress conferring such powers on
them. It is this class of governments, long known by the
name of Territories, that the act of Congress excepts from the
operation of this statute, while it extends it to all other places
over which the United States have exclusive jurisdiction.
Oklahoma was not of this class of Territories. It had no
legislative body. It had no government. It had no estab-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

lished or organized system of government for the control of
the people within its limits, as the Territories of the United
States have and have always had. We are therefore of opinion that the objection taken on this point by the counsel for
prisoner is unsound.
It is next objected that the indictment is bad, inasmuch as
it contains the double charge of a rape at common law and of
the statutory offence under the act of February 9, 1889; and
it is quite obvious that both these offences can be made out
from the language of the indictment, which is in a single
count. The allegation that the offence was by violence and
against the will of the woman, with the other allegations in
the indictment, describe the offence of rape. The allegation
that the defendant had carnal knowledge of a female under
sixteen years of age makes out the offence under the statute
of 1889. But the view of the court was, that the allegation
that the carnal knowledge was against the will of the woman
may be rejected 6ยง surplusage, and the rest of the indictment
be good under the statute referred to. And, as the court
instructed the jury in accordance with that view of the subject, and as the jury found the prisoner guilty not of the
crime of rape but of the smaller crime of carnal knowledge of
a female under sixteen years'of age, the action of the court on
that subject was probably correct. At all events, the court
had jurisdiction of the prisoner, and it had jurisdiction both
of the offence of rape and of carnal, knowledge of a female
under sixteen years of age. It was its duty to decide whether
there was a sufficient indictment to subject the party to trial
for either or for both of these offences. As no motion was
made to compel the prosecuting attorney to elect on which of
the charges he would try the prisoner, we think that there
was no error in its rulings on this subject. If there were, it
was not an error which went to the jurisdiction of the court
to try and sentence the prisoner.
It is urged that there is an indictment now pending against
the prisoner for the same offence, charged only as carnal knowledge of a female under sixteen years of age, and that the present indictment is so ambiguous that the trial and conviction

BURNS v. ROSENSTEIN.
Syllabus.

under it would be no bar to the proceeding under the second
indictment. We do not think the proposition is a sound ohe,
as the prisoner was clearly convicted of the same offence which
is charged in the second indictment.
An objection is made to the indictment that it was not signed
hv the district attorney of the United States; but, as the indictment was found by the grand jury, and endorsed as a true bill
by the foreman, and filed in open court according to law, we
(1o not see that there is any error on that subject, certainly
none which goes to the jurisdiction of the court. See Comrnorwealth v. Stone, 105 Mfass. 469.
It is said that the indictment was fatally defective because
it did not sufficiently apprise the prisoner of the nature of the
offence for .which he was to be tried. But he was tried and
convicted for carnally and unlawfully knowing a female under
the age of sixteen years. This was succinctly and clearly set
out in the indictment as the charge, or one of the charges,
against him, which he must have known he was to meet, and
we do not think the objection has any merit.
There may be other objections made by counsel, to the proceedings under which the prisoner was convicted, but none of
them rise to the dignity of questioning the jurisdiction of the
court. The rule upon the warden of the penitentiary is, therefore, discharged and a writ of habectwcopus
.Denied.

BURNS v. ROSENSTEIIN.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 207. Argued March 18, 1890.-

Decided March 31,1890.

The plaintiffs filed a bill in equity to dissolve a copartnership with the defendants on the ground of violation of the contract of partnership and
mismanagement, and to wind up its affairs in equity, and commenced the
proceedings by attaching the defendants' property. A receiver was
appointed by consent, and defendants answered, assenting to the dissoluVOL. cxxxv-29

