OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Syllabus.

Upon the whole case We are of opinion that the legal title
of the plaintiff imust prevail in this action.
The judgment i8 reverged and the cauee remanded with directions to enterjudgment for the plaintif.

YALE LOCK MANUFACTURING COMPANY v. BERKSHIRE NATIONAL RANK.
BERKSHIRE NATIONAL BANK v. YALE
MANUFACTURING COMPANY.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF

THE UNITED

LOCK

STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
Nos. 281, 262. Argued April 11, 14, 15, 1890. -

Decided May 5, 1890.

Claim 3 of reissued letters patent No. 7947, granted November 13, 1877
to James Sargent, for an "improvement in combined time-lock, combination lock, and bolt-work for safes," the original patent, No. 195,539,
having been granted to Sargent, September 25, 1877; namely, "3. The
combination, with the bolt-work of a safe or vault-door,-of a combination
or key lock controllable mechanically from the exterior of said door,
with a time-lock having a lock-bolt or obstruction for locking and
unlocking controllable from the interior of the door, both of said locks
being arranged so as to rest against or connect with the bolt-work, the
time-lock being automatically unlocked by the operation. of the timemovement, both 'of said locks being independent of each other, and
arranged to control the locking and unlocking of the bolt-work, so that
said safe or vault-door cannot be opened when locked until both of said
locks have been unlocked or have released their dogging action, to enable
the door to. be opened, substantially as described," is invalid, because
the specification of the original patent was not defective or insufficient,
and the patent was not inoperative; and the sole object of the reissue
was to obtain claim 3 as an enlarged claim; and the proceedings in the
Patent Office prior to the granting of the original patent show that Sargent abandoned that claim ; and because, although the reissue was
applied for only 13 days after the granting of the original patent, there
was not a clear mistake, inadvertently committed, in the wording of a
-claim.
Claims 1 and 7 of reissued letters patent No. 8550, granted to the Yale
Lock Manufacturing Company, January 21st, 1879, for an "improve-

YALE LOCK CO. v. BERKSHIRE BANK.
Opinion of the Court.
ment in time-locks," the original patent, No. 146,832, having been granted,
to Samuel A. Little, as inventor, January 27th, 1874, and having been reissued as No. 71.04, to that company, May 9th, 1876, and again reissued to
it, as No.8035, January 8th, 1878; namely, "1. The combination of independent multiple bolt-work with the time mechanism'and locking or dogging mechanism of a time-lock, automatically both dogging and releasing
the bolt-work at predetermined times, substantially as described." "7. In
a time-lock, the combination, substantially as above set forth, of the
time movements and two adjustable devices, one fbr determining
the time of locking, and the other of unlocking," are invalid, 'because
the original patent was not inoperative or invalid by reason of a defective
or insufficient specification,_ within the terms of the statute, so as to
warrant the reissues ; and because the claims are enlarged ; and
because of the unexcused delay of more than two years in applying for
a reissue ; and because the claims were formally abandoned during ti,
proceedings in the Patent Office.

Ih EQurrY. The case is stated in the opinion.

3Mr. George Ticknor Curtis and M'. Edmund Wetmore for
the Yale Lock Manufacturing Company, Sargent and Greenleaf.
Mr. William C. Cochrc

for the Berkshire National Bank

and Hall's executors.
MR. JUSTICE Bx.&Arcn'OnD deliy-6red the opinion of the court.

This is a suit in equity brought January 29, 1879, in the
Circuit Court of the TU~rted States for the District of Massachusetts, ly the Yale' Lick Manufacturing Company, a Connecticut corporation, and James Sargent and Halbert S.
Greenleaf, composing the firm of Sargent & Greenleaf, against
the Berkshire National Bank a national banking corporation
doing business at North Adams, in Massachusetts.
The suit .was brought for the infringement of two reissued
letters patent. One of them is reissue No. 7947, granted
'ovember 13, 1877, to James Sargent, as inventor, for an
'improvement in combined time-lock, combination lock, and
bolt-work for safes," on an application filed October . 1877i
the original patent, No. 195,539, having been granted to
Sargent, September 25, 1877. Only claim 3 of reissue No.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

7947 is alleged to have been infringed. The other reissue is
No. 8550, granted to the Yale Lock Manufacturing Company,
January 21, 1879, on an application iled October 14, 1878, for
an "improvement in time-looks," the original patent, No.
146,832, having been granted to Samuel A. Little, as inventor,
January 27, 1874, and having been reissued as No. 7104, to
the Yale Lock Manufacturing Company, May 9, 1876, and
again reissued to that company, as :No. 8035, January 8, 1878.
Only claims 1 and 7 of reissue No. 8550 are alleged to have
been infringed.
After the filing of the bill, and by agreement of the parties,
Joseph L. Hall, of Cinclinati, Ohio, was admitted as a defendant. An amended bill was filed, and the bank and Hall
answered it. As to both reissues, the answer denied that,
before they were granted, the patents were inoperative by
reason of a defective or insufficient specification; that any
errors arose by inadvertency, accident and mistake; that any
reissues were necessary or are valid; and that the reissues
were for the same inventions as were shown and described in
the original patents. It also set up want of novelty and noninfringement.
After replication, proofs were taken on both sides, and the
case was heard in the Circuit Court by Judge Lowell. His
opinion is reported in 17 Fed. Rep. 531. He held that claim
3 of the Sargent reissue, No. 7947, was invalid, and ordered a
decree for the plaintiffs as to claims 1 and 7 of the Little
reissue, No. 8550. On the 14th of August, 1883, an interlocutory decree was entered, adjudging reissue No. 8550 to be
valid, as to claims 1 and 7; that the defendants had infringed
those claims; and ordering a reference to a master to take an
account of profits and to report damages.
In July, 1884, the defendants were allowed to amend their
answer by setting up an additional anticipation of the Little
patent, proofs were taken thereon, and the case was reheard,
before Judge Colt, on the new evidence. He affirmed the
lormer decree, in an opinion reported in 26 Fed. Rep. 104.
The master reported $60 damages in favor of the plaintiffs,
and both parties excepted to the report. A final decree was

YALE LOCK CO. v. BERKSHIRE BAffK.
Opinion of the Court.

entered on the 12th of February, 1886, confirming the report,
overruling the exceptions of both parties and adjudging a
ecovery in favor of the plaintiffs for $60 damages and certain
costs, dismissing the bill as to the Sargent reissue, No. 7947,
and awarding a perpetual injunction as to claims I and 7 of
the Little reissue, No. 8550. From this decree both parties
have appealed. Joseph L. Hall having died, his executors
and trustees have been made parties in his place.
The respective specifications aftd claims of the original
Sargent patent, No. 195,539, and of its- reissue, No. 794:7, are
set forth below in parallel columns, the parts in each which are
not found in the other being in italic., The drawings are the
same in both.
Original patent, No. 195,539.

Reissue NVo. 7947.

"Be it known that I, James
Sargent, of the city of Rochester,'in the county of Monroe
and State of New York, have
invented a certain new and
useful improvement in locks;
and I do hereby declare that
the following is a full, clear,
and exact description of the
construction and operation of
the same, reference being had
to the accompanying drawings, in which figure 1 is an

"Be it known that I, James
Sargent, of the city of Rochester, in the county of Monroe
and State of New York, have
invented a certain new and
useful improvement in combined time-locks, combinationlocks, and bolt-work for safe and
vault doors; and I do hereby

declare that the following is a
full, clear, and" exact description of the construction and
operation of the same, referelevation of my improvement ence being had to the accomapplied to a safe-door. Fig. 2 panying drawings, in which figis a section of the bolt of the ure 1 illustrates a portion of a.
time-lock. Fig. 3 is an inside safe or vault door having thereview of the same. Fig. 4 rep- on a time-lock anda combination
resents detached views of the lock, both of said locks being
dial, pallet, and escape-wheel. represented in a locked condiFig. 5 is a bolt constructed as tion, with the bolt-work projected
integral with the holding-latch. and locked. Fig. 2 illustrates
one form of lock-bolt or obstruc-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.
tion for 4's in a time-lock.
Fig. 3 illustratesan inside view
of said lock-bolt or obstruction.
Fig. 4 represents detached
views of ihe pallet and escapewheel, and a portion of one
of the revolving dials. Fig. 5
illustratesanotherform of lockbolt or obstructionfor'use in"
connectionwith the time-loce for
admitting of locking or unlocking of the bolt-work.
".My invention consists,first,
in the combination with .the
bolt-work of a safe or vaultdoor, of a time-lock and a com
bination or key-lock, both constructed to be appliedon a safe,
vault, or other door, so. as to
rest against or connec.t with
the bolt-work on said door, and
provided with a device whereby
the bolt-work may be retained
in the unlocked position for
shutting the door, and be automatically locked by the lockbolt or obstruction bf the timelock, and mechanically by the
combination or key lock, the
whole so arrangedthat the boltwork cannot'be withdrawn when
locked till both locks have been
unlocked; second, in the combination of a time-lock and a
combination or key-lock, both
constructed to be applied on a
safe, vault, or other door, so as

YALE LOCK CO. v. BERKSHIRE BANK.

."34T

Opinion of the Court.

to rest against the bolt-work,
each of said locks .being provided with a lock-bolt or obstruction, that of the . combination-lock or key-lock being of the
usual construction,while that of
the time-lock has an opening or
offset, which is automatically
brought into and out of coincidence with the tongue of the
bolt-work, whereby the bolt-work
may be retained in the unlocked
position for. shutting the door,
and prevented from being retracted when locked, until botk
locks have been unlocked; third,
in the combination, with the
bolt-work of a safe or vaultdoor, of a combination-lock, controllable mechanicallyfrom the
exterior of said door, with a
time-lock, controllable automatically for unlocking by the
operation of its time mechanism, both of said locks arranged
to control the locking and unlocking of the bolt-work:"so that
said safe or vault-door cannot
be opened when locked until both
of said locks have been 1unlocked or released their dogging
action to enable the door to be
,pened, substantially as hereinafter described.
" The construction and ar"My improvement relates to
that class in which two inde- rangement of the time-lock will
pendent locks are employed be more fully hereinafter de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Ciihlrn-of the

upon a safe, vault, or other door
for the purpose, of preventing
the unlocking of the door-bolts
until both locks have been unlooked. Combination or keylocks have only heretofore been
used for this purpose, so far
as JTam aware. As such locks
are set on combinations, or operated by means of keys, burglars can force the holders of
the combination or key to unlock the door, and hence such
locks :are not a perfect safeguard against robbery. Clocklooks have also been used upon
doors for the purpose of open,ing the door only at a determined hour, thus placing it
beyond the power of any person to open the door until that
hour arrives but so far as I
am aware, such locks have
either been used singly on a
door (in w~ich case when the
lock releases the bolt or other
fastening the door is unlocked
and may'be opened by any
one,) or else a time-movement
has been combined directly
with a lock in such a manner
that the two reallyconstitute
but a single lock, in which case
if violence is applied to the
look it'at once destroys the
efficiency of the time move-

ment.

Ccrf

scribed; but it is evident that
any form or construction of a
time-lock may be used as a
part constituting one element
of the combination called for
in my claims.
"Combination or key-locks
have heretofore been used by
bankers and others for the purpose of preventing the unlocking of the bolt-work of a safe or
vault-door; but as such locks
are "set on" combinations, or
operated by means of keys,
burglars can force the holders
of the "combination" or key
to unlock the combination-lock
or looks, and thus admit of the
bolt-work being retracted and
the door thrown open. Therefore such locks are not a safeguard against robbery.
"Clock-locks have al~o been
used upon safe or vault-doors
for the purpose of opening the
door at a pre-determined.hour,
thus placing it beyond the
power of any person, until the
'arrival of the appointed time,
to open the' door*, but as far
as I am aware such clock-locks
have either been used singly
on a safe-door, so that, when
said lock released the boltwork or other fastening of the
said door it was unlocked, and
the door could be opened by

YALE LOCK CO. v. BERKSHIRE BANK*
Opinion of the Court.

".My invention consists, pri- any one, or, in

marily, in the combination,with
the door-bolt, of a clock-lobk and
a combination or key-lock applied separately upon the door,
having each an independent action, whereby the clock-lock will
not release its bolt until a certain determined hour,and when
it does release its bolt the combination or key-lock still remains
locked and secures the door.
"My invention further consist in combining a clock-lock
with a combination or key-lock,
both constructed to be applied
on a safe, vault, or other door,
to operate in connection with
the bolt-work of such door, said
clock-lock being provided with
a lock-bolt constructed with an
opening or offset, which is automatically brought in and out of
coincidence with the- tongue of
the door-bolt in such a manner
that the door-bolt may be retained in an unlocked condition for shutting, andprevented
from being withdrawn when
locked until both locks have
been unlocked, the prime object
being that each lock shall have
an independent action, so that
the clock-lock will not release
the bolt until a certain determinate hour, and when it does
release its bolt the combination

another instance, .when a time-movement

had been combined with a
combination-lock in

such a

manner that the two really
constituted but a single lock,
the time mechanism constructed
and provided with a lever to
engage with the fence or dog of
the combination-lock, so that the
entire mechanism of 'the time-'
movement and combination-lock
really constitute but a single
lock, as aforesaid, the result
being that, if violence be applied to such a lock through
the dial spindle or otherwise,

the efficiency of. the timemovement will be destroyed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

or kg-lock still remains locked
and secures the door.
"A represents the combination or key-lock, and B the
clock-lock. These locks are
provided with bolts C D, of
any desired kind, againstwhich
strike the studs a a' of the tiepiece E.
When the locks are
locked, the bolts hold said studs
out and both locks have to be unlocked to allow the door-bolt to
retract.

"Referring to the drawings,
the letter A designates a combination or, key-lock, and B
the time-lock. These locks
are illustrated as being upon a
portion of a safe or vault-door,
with the bolt-work projected and
locked, the lock-bolts or obstructions being in a locked position.
The lock-bolts or obstructions
C D are, in the present example, shown as being constructed
each with a notch or recess, so
that, when said notches or recesses are brought in line with
the tongue-pieces or studs a a',
arrangedupon the carrying-bar
E of the bolt-work, they (the
said tongue-pieces or studs)
can, by a movement of the boltwork, be made to enter said
notches or recesses, and thus
the bolt-work can be retracted
and the safe or vault-door
thrown open. When the bolt.
work is projected or cast so as
to lock the safe or vault-door,
the lock-bolts or obstructions can
be brought into a locked position, the lock-bolt or obstruction
of the combination-lock being
placed in a locked position by
mechanically operatinqthe dialspindle, which controls the
movements of the tumblers and

YALE LOCK CO.

BERKSHTR

BANK.

Opinion of the Court.

"The locks A B are separate
and independent of each other,

and complete in themselves, and
may be located at any position
on the door. , The combination
or key-lock will naturally be

located in line with the spindle
that operates it; but the clocklock may be placed anywhere
where space is best found for
it on the door, and the stud a'
of the door-bolt, which connects
with it, may be lengthened,bent,
or otherwise arranged to rest
against the lock-bolt in whatever position it may be, as
shown in Fig. 1.

other portions of the lock, while
the lock-bolt or obstruction of
the time-lock will automatically
bring itself into a locked position after the door is closed,
whereby the door of the safe or
vault will be locked andguarded
by two locks, one of which is op-,
crated from the exterior mechanically, while the other
operates on the interior automatically, there being. no hole
through the door whereby it
might be operated upon" by any,
mechanical means.
"The combination-tock and
the.time-lock are separatefro~n
each other in performing their
office or function with respectto
the bolt-work on the safe or
vault-door, and each of said
locks should be complete in itself, and so constructed that
they may be placed at any position on a safe or vault-door.
"The combination or keylock should be located in line
with the dial-spindle or key
which operates it, but the timelock may'be located anywhele
,on the safe or vault-door where
sufficient space is present for it,
and the tongue-pieces or studs
on the carrying-barof the boltwork may be of any required
length, bent or otherwise arranged so as to connect with or

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

"In locking the safe or vaultdoor some device is necessary
to allow the door-bolt to remain
back in the unlocked position
until the door is closed, without interfering with the clocklock.

rest against the lock-bolts or
obstructions, when the latter is
moved to the proper position
for obstructing or dogging the
bolt-work, and prevent its retraction or unlocking, thus retaining the door in a locked
position until both locks have
been unlocked.
" Wten it is desired to lock
or fasten the bolt-work of the
safe or vault-door by means
of a combination-lock and a
time-lock, some mechanical arrangement or device should be
employed to enable the lockbolt or obstruction of the timelock to be set or adjusted while
the safe-door is open and the
bolt-work in a retracted or unlocked position, so that the
door can be closed to admit of
the bolt-work being projected or
cast. The lock-bolt or obstruction will, as hereinafter set
forth, present its lock-bolt or
obstruction automatically, thus
securing the door in a locked
position until the arrival of the
time determined by the time
mechanism or register, at which
time the lock-bolt or obstruction
will be automatically moved and
brought into a position for ad.
mitting of the releasing and unlocking of the bolt-work, so that
said door can be opened.

YALE LOOK CO. v. BERKSHIRE BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

" To accomplish stwh mechanical arrangementor device
in the time-lock, a lock-bolt or
obstruction is employed in the
time-lock itself, or by means of
an adjustable tongue-piece or
stud connected with the carrying-bar of the bolt-work - such,
for instance, as those illustrated
in Figs. 1, 2, 3, 5 of the accompanying sheets of drawings.
" The lock-bolt or obstruction
_D, illustratedin Figs. 1, 2, and
3, is one of the devices that
should be employed to enable
the time-lick to be set while
the bolt-work remains in a retracted or unlocked position, so
that the bolt-work will remain
in such retracted position without interfering with the timelock, the combination-lock, of
course, during such interval,
being in an unlocked position,
and through such mediums the
bolt-work when projected for
closing the door will be held in
a locked position by the automatic movement of the lock-bolt
or obstruction of the time-lock,
and by the lock-bolt of the combination-lock which is brought
into a locked position by the
mechanical operation of the
dial-spindle.
"In Pig. 1 the bolt D of the
"The lock-bolt or obstruction
clock-lock is constructed in two of the time-lock is constructed
VOL. cx xv- 23

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

parts, D' D 2 I, turning independently on the same bearings c.
The inner part, D2 , has the
socket d, into which the stud
of the door-bolt enters in drawing back. It is connected to
the outer part, D', by a coiled
spring, f, Fig. 3, resting in a
cavity in the side of the outer
part. The outer part is also
connected by a similar coiled
spring, g, with the fixed bearing, c. Instead of the spring
g it may have a counter-weight,
g', Fig. 5. The spring g
causes the outer part, D', to
turn back or fall, so that the
socket d of the inner part
comes in position to allow the
stem a' of the door-bolt to
enter therein. When this is
done, the outer part is turned
up to engage the dog, (presently to be described,) while
the inner tart remains stationary on the stem of the door-bolt.
The door is then shut and the
door-bolt thrown out, and the
tension of the spring g causes
the part _D2 to turn when
released, thereby locking the
door-bolt. The parts D' D 2
are provided with suitable
stops, by which the motion is
gaged to bring the socket of
the part D2 in proper position
in its throw.

in two'parts, D 1 D 2 adapted to
turn independently of the other
on the same bearing c. The
inner part, D 2 , has a notch or
recess, d, into which the tdnguepiece or stud: on the carryingbar enters when the bolt-work
is retracted, so as to open the
safe or vault-door if the combinatonlock be unlocked. The
saidinnerpart .D2 is connected
to the outer part D' by a
spring, f, resting in a cavity
or recess in the side. of the
outer part. The outer part
1I is also 'connected by a
spring, g, with the bearing c.
The spring g being connected
with the outer part D i , and
with its bearing c, causes the
outer part D', to be moved or
turned on its axis, so that the
notch, recess, or offset d of the
inner part D 2 is brought into a
position to allow the tongue or
stud a' of the carrying-bar to
enter it, and thus the bolt-work
dan be retracted,-andwhen so
.retracted the outer part _D' is
turned or moved, and made to
connect and engage with the
portion of a yoke, while the
inner part _)2 remains stationary, being prevented from moving or turningon its axis by the
tongue-piece or stud on the carrying-ar resting in The notch

YALE LOCK CO. v. BERKSHIRE BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

" The device above described or recess of the part _D2 of the
forms a part of the clock-lock, bolt-lock or obstruction.
being the bolt of the same. In
Fig. 1 is shown another device
for the same purpose, situated
outside the lock, which is the
subject-matter of a separate application. It consists of a
socket or bearing, h, attached
to the tie-piece _E of the doorbolt and sliding on an independent stud, a', resting against
the lock-bolt. A spring locking-pin, i, is used to connect the
parts when the door-bolt is
thrown forward to connect with
the jamb. In this case the
lock-bolt .D may be made solid,
and may be either of the turning or sliding kind.
"The parts constituting the
lock-bolt or obstruction, and
forming a part of the time-lock,
being thus constructed, arranged, and adjusted, the time
mechanism having been previously wound, and the dials
4et for a certainpredetermined
time, the bolt-work is projected
or cast, when the lock-bolt or
obstruction of said time-loc
will automatically be brought
into a locked position, and the
door of the safe or vault securely guarded by a combination-lock, if it be locked, and a
time-lock, and the bolt-work be

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Courp.
prevented from being retracted,
or the sate or vault-door opened,
until both locks have been unlocked.
"The parts DI D 2 composing
the lock-bolt or obstruction are
supplied with suitable stops,
by which their motion or throw
is limited so as to bring the
notch recess, or offset of the
part D 2 in proper position in
its rotation to coincide with the
tongue-piece or stud on the carrying-bar of the bolt-work.
"In lieu offorming the lockbolt or obstruction in two parts,
as above described, it has been
found eminently practical and
successful to employ a lock-bolt
or obstruction madein a single
piece, or as an integral. Such
a lock-bolt or obstruction is
shown in Fig. 5 of the drawing, and, as it will be perceived,
it is constructed with a notch,
recess, or offset, to admit of a
tongue-piece or stud entering it
when the bolt-work is retracted
fdr unlocking the safe or vaultdoor, and said lock-bolt or obstruction is likewise provided
with an arm, g', having a pin
or stud for connecting or engaging with a yoke in such a manner that when said arm and
yoke are in connection the lockbolt or obstruction will be

YALE LOCK CO. v. BERKSHIRE BANK.
Opinion of the Court..
placed so 'as to prevent the retraction of the bolt-work, and
when said arm and yoke are
disconnected through the medium of revolving dials, to be
hereinafter mentioned, the lockbolt or obstructionwill be automatically brought to a position
for allowing the bolt-work to beretracted, and such qutomatie
movement of the lock-bolt or
obstruction is due to the action
of the arm g' acting as a counterweight.
When a lock-bolt or obstruction of the character-last described is employed someprovision must be made for adjusting
and setting the 'time-lock or the.
lock that measures time, prior
to closing the safe or vault-door,
and this must. be accomplished
while the bolt-work is in a retracted position; therefore to
enable such to be done, there is
arrangedon the carrying-barof
the bolt-work a socket or bearing, which is providled with
a movable tongue-piece and a
spring-bolt, constructed and arranged in such a manner that
when the spring-bolt is moved
out of contact wit the socket or
'bearing of the movable tonguepiece or stud of the carryingbar, it, together with the boltwork, can be retracted as the

OCTOBER TERM. 1889.
'Opinion of the Court.
socket or bearing on said carrying-bar moves or slides along
the tongue-piece or stud in a
longitudinal direction, one. end
of it bearing upon the lock-bolt
or obstruction of the time-lock,
and in such condition the safe
or vault-door can be closed, and
when the bolt-work isproiected
or cast into the jamb of the
door, the socket or bearing
moves along 'the tongue-piece
until the spring-bolt engages
with it, when it - the socket or
bearing- will be automatically
locked in place, and the boltwork, performing its office, will
securely fasten the safe or
vault-door,upon which the combination-lock is placed,(together
with the time-lock.

"From the foregoing it will
-be seen that the lock-bolt or obstruction shown in several figures are each stationary except
during the brief interval of
time when locking or unlocking
is being effected, and that each
isadapted to be turned on its
pivot or bearingfor obstructing
or dogging the bolt-work for
preventing its retractionor for
releasing the bolt-work at the
time appointed, so that it can
be'retracted; and-it should be
noticed that the lock-bolt or obstruction of the time-look is so

YALE LOOK CO. v. BERKSHIRE BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

located in the time-lock that if
pressure be exerted upon the
lock-bolt or obstruction by force.
applied to the bolt-work, such
pressurewill not be transmitted
to the delicate workmanship
forming part of -the time-lock,
for the lock-bolt or obstruction,
so to speak, is isolated from
the time mechanism, in order
to brin4 and retain the lockbolt or obstruction"in a position
to have the same obstruct and
prevent te retractionof the boltwork, or to move it to release
the bolt-work, whereby the iame
may be retracted.
"a is a dog for holding the , "-.Tere is'arranged within.
lock-bolt 1? up in the locked posi- the time-ldck a yoke,. G, which.
tion. It turns on an axis, ki is capable of being oscillated
and its point, engages under a or turned on its axis or pivot,
stop, 1, preferably a roller, of said yoke being, acted on by
, in
the bolt when the latteris raised. two rotating dials, H
such
a
manner
.that said yoke
It is held in engagement by a
light spring,j. The dog has two wilt be operated by either or
branching arms, m, m, project- both of said dials at the predeing inward over the faces of termined time for which said
the dial-wheels H . The dial- revolving dials have been set.
"In the example. hown in
wheels have pins n n projecting
outfrom thcir faces, and when the time-lock in Pig. 1, 'the
they or either of them strike yoke .engages under a stop, 1,
,the levers m m they release the preferably a, roller, arranged
dog from its engagement with on the lock-bolt or obstruction,
the bolt, and the latter tum.s and when the latter is brought
back orfalls, thereby'unlocking into a position for obstructing
the lock, as before described.,
the bolt-work, to prevent its retraction.until the arrival of the

OCTOBER TERM, 188q.
Opinion of the Court.

predetermined time, while in
the example shown in Fig. 5
said yoke connects or engages
with the bolt-lock or obstruction.
"In both examples the yoke
retains the lock-bolt or obst'ruetion in a position for obstructing and preventing the retraction of the bolt-work until the
arrival of the predetermined
time for which the revolving
dials carrying pins have been
set.
"The arms or members m m
of the aforesaid yoke extend
over a portion of the revolving
dials,from which project pins,
and when either of said pins
comes in contact with the arm.
or members of said yoke, which
will occur at the arrival of the
time previously determined upon when setting the, revolving
dials, it (the said yoke) will be
operated or turned on its axis
or pivot, and release the lockbolt or obstruction, and leave
the same to be brought into *a
position to permit the, bolt-work
to be retracted, which is accomplished by turning the knob or
handle connected with the carTying-bar, said knob or handle
being on the outside of the safe
or vault-door.
"It is preferred to use two
"I prefer to use two independent time-movements or independent time mechanisms,

YALE LOCK CO. v. BERKSHIRE BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

ulocks, 'each connected with

each connected with and oper-

and operating one of the dialwheels IT,so. that if one movement should accidentally stop
the other would be sure to
unlock the lock.

ating one of the revolving dials,

so that if one of the time mechanisms should accidentally
stop the other -would be sure

to operate the yoke, and by its
movement release the lock-bolt
or obstruction, uhich would automatically assume such a position as to present an unobstructedpathwayfor the tonguepiece or stud to move in and
thus the bolt-work could be
released and be left free to be
withdrawn or retracted.
"The revolving dials are
cogged - that is, provided with
teeth, which engage with the
arbor 0 of the mainspringbarrel, 'either directly or by
means of the pinion p attached
to said arbor, or through intermediate gfearing- so that the
setting of the time mechanism
for operating the yoke at any
given tiie willnecessarilywind
up the time mechanism, to the
extent, at least, that it will unwind by the arrival of' the predetermined time at which the
lock-bolt or 6bstruction is to be
released for enabling the boltwork to be retracted.
"The dial-wheels are indexed
"The revolving dials are in-

or marked with a scale of hours dexed or marked with a scale
from 0 to 48, or any, other from zero (0) upward to 48, or
number corresponding with any other number correspond-

:OCTOBER -TERM, 1889.
Opinion of. the Court.

the longest interval the lock is ing with the longest,'interval'
to remain locked at one time the time-lock is to present its
say from Saturday night to lock-bolt, or obstruction to ob'Monday morning. - This scale

is used in conjunction with a

struct the boltwork at one time
- say, from Saturday night to

Monday morning. This scale
wheel. tn setting the lock the is used in conjunction with a

pointer, e, at the top of the

dial-wheels are moved back- pointer or index, e,-arrangedin
-the time-lock above the revolving
dials.
-

-

watd from 0 to any number in
the scale that will indicate the
number of hours the 'safe or
vault is to remain closed; and
the pins n n must be so located
with refereice to the scale as

"-In setting the time-lock
ihe revolving dials axe turned

or moved backward from zero
(0) to any number in the scale
to strike the levens m m and that will indicate the number
release the bolt when the 0 of hours the safe or vault-door
mark comes- fo~ward to the
pointer. The, time-movements
or mechanism may be o! any
ordinary construction to measure time.
"6Bachof the dial-wheels IT
Hf is cogged,, aoid engages with

the arbor o of the mainspring-

to remain closed or locked,
and the pins w of the revolving
dials must be so adjusted with

- is

reference to the yoke as to
come in contactwith the arms or
members m m of the yoke, so that
either or both of the said arms or
members will act upon the yoke,
cauging it to move so as to release the lock-bolt or obstruction of the time-lock when the
zero (0) mark arrives at the
index or pointer.
"The winding up of the time
mechanism and the setting of
the -revolvingdials is performed
simultaneously by imparting
proper motion to the arbor o of

barrel either,directly by means
of -the pinion p attached to said
arbor or through intermediate
gearing.' The arbor o is the
stem by which the clock is
wound.
" "Whenthe clock is finished,
it isfully wound up before the
dial-wheel is adjusted in place.
The motion is then imparted to
the dial-wheel, which runs for- the mainspring-barrel.
" The revolving dials are proward to unlock the lock, and in
vided
with a pin, r, as shown
moving the dial-wheel back to

YALE LOCK CO. v. BERKSHIRE BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

reset the lock the block is rewound.
"The dial-wheel is turned
back to reset the lock by a key
applied at the winding-arbor o.

in Fig. 4, the same serving as a
stop.
"On the pallet s, which engages with the escape-wheel t,
is a pin, u, which projects out
through a slot, v, of the stationary time-mechanism frame,
the whole -arranged-insuck a
manner that as soon as the

revolving dial has acted upon
the yoke for causing it to release thelock-bolt or obstruction,
the pin r, of the said revolving
dial will strike the pin u of the

.pallet, and lock the latter in
the escape-wheel, thereby stop.ping the timhe mechanism, so
that there will be no loss of
power, as it is intended that the
time-lock should be. wound -p
when first finished, prior to adjusting in place the revplving
dials; and, further by stopping
the time mechanism, as above
described, the revolving dials

cannot get out of position with
"By the means above described I obviate a great objection to common clock-locks,
which run on until they run
down, thus subjecting the look
to the danger of being locked in
by neglect of winding. By
this means the lock cannot be
reset without winding, for the
pins n n, resting in contact

respect to the index or poina
"By my invention, te timelock cannot be reset .vithout
winding, for the pins -of the
revolving dials, resting in contact with the arms or members
of. the yoke, prevent it from
being brought into .action with
the lock-bolt or obstruction untilthe revolving diats -have been
moved back the number of hours

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the, Court.

with the levers m m, prevent
the dog afrom being engaged
with the bolt until the dialwheels have been moved back,
as described. The relocking
of the lock therefore requires
rewinding of the clock as a
necessity.,
"Or the back of the dialwheel H is a pin, r, Fig. 4,
forming a stop. On the pallet
8, which engages with the
scape-wheel t, is a pin, u, which
projects out through a slot,
v, of the stationary clock-frame.
As soon as the dial-wheel has
acted upon the lever m to unlock the lock the pin r of the
dial-wheel strikes the pin u of
the pallet and locks the latter
in the scape-wheel, thereby
stopping the clock. There is,
therefore, no loss of motion, nor
can the dial-wheel get out of
position with respect. to the
pointer.

"By combining an independent clock-lock and combination or key-lock with the
door-bolt, as described, I produce an effect which cannot
be produced by a cock-lock
alone or by two or iore combination-locks tbgether. The

for which it is designed to obstruct the bolt-work. Thus the
resetting of the time-lock requires xewinding of the time
mechanism as a necessity, and
hence no danger of its being
unlocked accidentally during
the period of hours for which
it is set.
"The dial-wheel is turned
back to set the time-lock by a
key applied at the windingarbor o.
"By the means above described I obviate a great objection to common clock-locks,
which run on until they- run
down, thus subjecting the lock
to the danger of a 'lock-out,'
caused by neglect of winding'
- "By this means the timelock cannot be set without
winding, for the pins n n, resting. in contact with-the arms
of the yoke, it (the yoke) cannot be engaged with the lockbolt or obstruction until the
dial-wheels have been moved
back to set the lock, as before
described.
":By combining an independent time-lock of the character
"describedand a combination or
.ksy-lock, I produce an effect
or result which cannot be produced by a time-lock alone,
or by two or more combina,
tion-locks together.

YALE LOCK CO. ,v. BERKSHIRE BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

clock-lock serves as a safeguard
"The time-lock serves as a
by night and the combination- safeguard by night, in conneclock by day. If the holderof the tion with the combination-lock,
combination is forced to open for holding the bolt-work in a
the combination-lock at -night, locked condition; but when the
the clock-lock remains intact, time-lock releases the bolt-work
and cannot be opened by the at the appointed hour, the boltburglars or the holder of the work will remain locked, and
combination.
On the other the safe or vault-door closed,
hand, when the clock-lock re- until the combination-lock is"
leases its bolt in the morning, unlocked by the holder of the
the combination-lock still re- combination on which said lock
mains locked, and burglars can-' is set, when the bolt-work cart
not make an entrance to the be retractedand the door opened,
safe. Such results cannot be thus leaving the time-lock free
accomplished by a clock-lock from performing any locking.
alone, because when it releases -action, which leaves the combiits bolt the safe is absolutely nation-lockfree for'use during
unlocked; nor by two or more the day for locking or unlocking
combination-locks
together, the safe or vault-door - an imbecause the holders of 'the portant desideratumpresent in
combination may be taken to my invention.
the bank and forced to open
"If the time-lock present on
the lock. - Neither can tam- the safe" or vault-door is set for
pering with the combination- holding the bolt-work from the
look affect the clock-lock.
time the bank closes in the afternoon to release the bolt-work
at a certain hour the next morning, it will admirably and with
certaintyperform its offlce, leaving the combinationloek to be
opened before the bolt-work can
be retracted,; and should the
officer of the bank holding the
combination be seized during
the night, carried to the bank,

and forced to open the combi-

-OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

nation-lock, the time-lock will
remain intact, and cannot be
opened by the burglars or the
officer in charge of the combi-

nation. Such results cannot
be accomplished by a time-lock
alone, because when it releases
its bolt-work the safe or vault-

door is absolutely. unlocked,
and no lock present for use
during the day; nor by two

or more combination-locks together, because the holders of
the combinations may be taken

to the bank and foiced to open
the locks. Neither can tampering with the combinationlock affect the time-lock.
"The combination-lock may
"The combination-lock may
be punched from place,.butthe be punched from its position
clock-lock, being separate and by burglars; but then the timeindependent from it, and hav- lock, being separate and indeing no opening through the pendent from it, ,cannot be
door, cannot be affected.. It is affected or disturbed, because
therefore superior to a lock there is no opening through the
which has the time-movement door by which it can be reached.
combined directly with the It is therefore superior to a
combination-lock, both form- lock which has the time-moveing one lock, in which case ment combined directly with
any violence to the lock-work the combination -lock, both
disartanges the clock. 'An- forming one lock, in which
other advantage of this inven- case any violence to the locktion is the capability of the work disarranges the timeseparate locks of being applied movement.
"Another advantage of my
on different parts of the door
is the capability of
invention
-md~fferently. The bolt-work
on different doors is frequently the separate locks being ap-

YALE LOCK CO. v. BERKSHIRE BANK.
Opinion' of the _Court.

such that the two locks cannot be applied together. The
clock-lb~k in such case may be.
attached at the most convenient
location, as before described.
It can also be applied with
facility on old safes having the
combination or key-lock already on, thus securing the
advantage of a clock-lock and
combination-lock without the
necessity of removing the old
lock and substituting a new
one having a time-movement
combined directly with the lock.

"I do not claim, br6adly,
a clock-lock; nor do I claim
two or more combination-locks
combined with the door-bolt;
but
"I claim-

"1. The combination with
a door-bolt, , of a clock-lock,
B, and a combination or keylock, A, applied independently
on a safe, vault, or bther door,
so as to" rest against or con-nect with said door-bolt, and

plied on different parts of the
safe or vault-door, with espect
to the bolt-work, indifferently,
"The bolt-work on different
safe or vault-doorsis frequently
such that the time-lock and the
combination or key-lock cannot
be applied together; but in
such case the time-lock may be
attached at the most convenient
location, as no opeiing through
the door is requisite.
"The time-lock can be applied with ease and facility to
the doors of old safes or vaults
having .the combination or*
key-lock already thereon, thus
securing the advantage of a'
time-lock and a combination
or key-lock without the necessity of removing the old lock.
"I do not claim, broadly,
a time4ock of any peculiar
construction; nor do I claim
two or more combination-locks
combined with the bolt-wo k
of a safe or vault-door, as such
are old and well known.
"Wh~at I claim, and desire
to secure by7letters-patent,is"1. The combination, with
the bolt-worc of a safe or vaultdoor of a timelock and a combination or key-lock, both applied independently on a safe,
vault, or other door, so. as to
rest against or connect with

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

provided with a device whereby the door-bolt may be re-tained in the unlocked position for shutting the door, the
whole arranged so that the
door-boltcannot be withdrawn,
when locked, until both locks
have been unlocked.

the bolt-work on said door, and

provided with a device whereby the boltwork may be retained in the unlocked position for shutting the door, and
be automatically locked by the
time-lock and mechanically by
the combination or key-lock
when the bolt-work is cast, the

whole so arranged that the

YALE LOCK CO. v. BERKSHIRE BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

-Fig.8.

"2. The combination of a
clocAc-lock and a combination or
key-lock, both constructed to
be applied on a safe, vault, or
other door, so as to rest against
the door-bolt, alad provided
with a lock-bolt having an
opening or an offset, which is
automatically brought in and
voi. cxxxv-24

bolt-tiork cannot be withdrawn when locked till both
locks have been unlocked.
"2. The combination of a
time-lock and a combination
or key-loc-k, both constructed
to be appliedcon a safe vault,
or other door, so as to rest
against the 1tolt-work and pro-,
vided with a lock-bolt &r ob8truetion having, an opening

or offset, which is automati-.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

out of- coincidence with the cally brought into and out of
tongue of the door-bolt, where- coincidence with the tongue
by the door-bolt may be re-. of the bolt-work, whereby the
tained in the unlocked posi- bolt-work may be retained in
tion for shutting the door and the unlocked position for shutprevented from being with- ting the door, and prevented
drawn,when locked, until both from being retracted when
locked, until both locks have
locks have been unlocked."
been unlocked.
"3. The combination, with
the bolt-work of a safe or vaultdoor, of a combination or keylock controllable mechanically
from the exterior of said door,
with a time-lock having a lockbQIt or obstruction for lockIng
-andunlocking controllablefrom
.the interiorof the door, both of
said locks being arrangedso as
to rest against or connect with
the bolt-work, the time-lock being automatically unlocked by
the operation of the time-movement, both of said locks being
independent of each other, and
arrangedto control the locking
and unlocking of the bolt-work,
so that said safe or vault-door
cannot be opened when locked
until both of said locks have
been unlocked or have released
their dogging action, to nable
the door to be opened, substantially as described."

Claim 3 of reissue No. 7947 was passed upon by Judge Shipman in the Circuit Court for the District of Connecticut, in
March, .1881, in the suits of Yale Zock Manu.facturing Com-

YALE LOOK CO. v BERKSEIRE BAN-K.'
Opinion -of the Court.

panyv. Yorw"ich NationalB6nk, and the Same Comvany v.N.W
Hfaven Saving8 Bank, reported in 19 Blatchford, 123, andO Fed.
Rep. 377. He held that claim 3 covered a new and patentable
invention and was valid. On the question of the validity of
the reissue as to claim 3, he said: "It is next urged that the
third claim of the reissue is void, because it was abandoned by
the patentee upon the objection of the Patent Office, waen
the original application was pending. In Sargent's original,
application he made one broad claim. The application was
rejected by the examiner, whose decision was reversed by.tbe
board of examiners. The examiner then requested that a newapplication be made, upon the ground that the case presented
to the board was not the same case which had been presented
to him. A new application was made, containing only the
first two claims of the reissue. Then followed a long and
earnestly contested litigation in the Patent Office between
various interfering applicants, in whiclh, apparently, both patentability and priority were discussed. The Little applica-'
tion contained the broad claim, and the board of examiners
said, at one stage of the litigation, whether this question was
properly before them or not, that this claim was patentable;
so that, when the question came before them upon appeal
from the decision of the examiner against the Sargent reissue,
the board say: I Theclaim in controversy ig the same, in substance, as the first clapm of Little, whose application was once
in interference with Sargent, and which was admittod to be
patentable by the Office at the time of the 4eclaration of the
interference. The patentability of Little's elhim has onne, been
before us in the aforesaid interference, and, after full argument,
we concluded that his claim was tenable, and held that some one
who was.first to combine with the bolt-work on a vault or safedoor, a key-lock and time-lock acting independently of each
other, but jointly upon the bolt-work, might Jiave a valid patent
therefor.' These facts exclude the third QlaJm from the decision, or the dicta, in the case of Ieggett v. Avery, 101 U. S.
256. I do not understand that the objection that 'the reissue
is for a different invention from the original was prcssed by
either of the counsel for the defendant., It is sufficient to. gay,

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

that the claims of the original were for the combination of the
third claim, provided with a device whereby the bolt-work
inay be retained in the unlocked position, for shutting the
door, and be automatically locked by the time-lock and mechanically by the key-lock when the bolt-work is cast. The
patentee had shown ' means whereby' but, if I have been correct thus far, the gist of his invention consisted, not in that
device, but in the triple combination. Other different ' devices
whereby,' could be introduced by other inventors, which would
destroy the value of his patent, if it was unduly limited. As
said by the board of examiners, ' means whereby,' while being
essential to the convenient use of this combination, is merely
incidental to the main idea, and may be varied indefinitely
without departing from the spirit and scope of the applicant's
invention."
The only remark made by Judge Lowell, in his opinion in
the present case, as to the validity of reissue No. 7947, as
respects claim 3, is, that the patent "was reissued so soon
after its granting that it is not obnoxious to the objection of
undue delay." The application for the reissue was filed 13
days after the original patent was issued, and the reissue was
granted 36 days after the application for it was filed. Judge
Lowell held claim 3 to be invalid on the ground that, if it was
a claim irrespective of any particular means for carrying it
,out it was void as a patent for a principle, independently of
the state of the art; and that, in view of the state of the art,
it was void. He was of opinion, that there was no patentable
novelty in putting a time-lock, which was old, in place of one
of two combination locks, where two combination locks had
been before used to dog one combined bolt-work; that it was
not patentable to substitute a well-known multiple bolt-work
for two such bolt.works, where a time-look and a combination
lock had been before combined in the use of two multiple
bolt-works; and that there was no patentable novelty in combining two locks with a single door.
A history of the proceedings in the Patent Office in regard
to patent No. 195,539 and reissue No. 794',shows that claim 3
of that reissue must be held to be invalid.

YALE LOOK CO. v. BERKSHIRE BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

On the 9th of May, 1874, Sargent filed an api .cation for a
patent which claimed broadly the combination of a time-lock,
an ordinary lock and a safe-bolt connected with both of
them. The claim he made was as follows: "What I claim is
the combination, with a clock or time-movement lock and an
ordinary lock, attached independently to a safe or vault-door,
of a safe-bolt constructed so as to rest against or connect
with both of said .locks, substantially as described, whereby
the safe-bolt cannot be withdrawn' till both locks have been
unlocked."
In the specification he then filed he said: "This improvement belongs to that class in which two locks are applied
upon a safe or vault-door for the purpose of preventing the
withdrawal of the safe-bolt till both locks have been unlocked.
I employ one ordinary combination or key-lock and
one time-movement or clock-lock, attached independently to
the door, and employ in combination therewith a safe-bolt
that bears against or connects with both of. said locks in such a
manner that though the ordinary lock may be picked or opened,
yet the clock-lock cannot be reached, and the safe-bolt therefore cannot be released till the clock has performed its office
and unlocked its lock at the predetermined hour. .
But it is by no mean essential to this invention that the circular form of lock-bolt should be used, as the ordinary style of
sliding-bolt, or other fo'rms of shifting bearings, could be employed, if desired. . . . Clock-locks have before been used
both separately and in connection with combination locls.
Where used alone they are insecure, for tbe'reason that burglars, ascertaining the hour upon which the lock is set, may,
by confining or disabling the officers of the bank having control of the same, open the safe when the hour arrives. In my
improvement such result cannot occur, because the combination lock still looks the safe. Where clock-locks have been
combined with ordinary locks heretofore, so far as I am
aware, the said locks have been connected by a lever or other
connection, so that their actions are dependent on each other.
In such case, if the combination or key-lock is injured by a
lock-pick, by violence or otherwise, the clock-lock -isliable to

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

injury also. By making these independenv, as described, I
avoid these diffibculties."
This application was rejected by the -examiner, -but, on appeal, his decision was overruled by the examiners-in-chief, February 17, 1875. The examiner then ascertained that the case
had been argued before the examiners-in-chief on an invention
which had not been before the examiner, and that another
model was used before the examiners-in-chief in place of the
one properly in the case. The new feature of invention was
a device by which the time-lock could be properly set and the
door then be closed; but that device, which made the inven-ion an operative one, was not shown in the drawing, the
specification or the model, which had been before the examiner. In a communication made to Sargent by the examiner
at the time, February 20, 1875, he said: "As far as the Office
knows by the record of the case, this new invention may not
have been contemporaneous with the first one. The examiner
would suggest that a new case be at once filed embodying this
invention, which' makes the devices operative, and against the
patentability of which no question will be raised. The claim,
however, must be not broadly for A combined with 0, which
is not conceded- to be entirely inoperative, but A and B combined either with C or some mechanical equivalent thereof,
which alone makes A and B operative." He also said: "It is
suggested to applicant that he file a new case introducing the
new combining device which allows the door to be shut after
the time-lock is set, and thus takes it out from the new reference cited, and the examiner will, in all proper ways, hasten
the case forward upon a legitimate claim for A and B with
suitable combining device to allow the door-to be closed after
the time-lock is set, inasmuch as no obstacle exists, as the
examiner is at present advised."
In accordance with this suggestion, Sargent, on the 10th of
March, 1875, filed a new application, which resulted in the
granting of patent No. 195,539. The specification of this application said: "In locking the safe or vault-door, some device
is necessary to allow the door-bolt to remain back in the unlocked position until the door is closed, without interfering

YALE LOCK CO. v. BERKSHIRE BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

with the clock-lock. [A variety of devices may be employed
for this purpose.]" This clause in brackets was afterwards
erased.
The specification of this application also said: "In Fig. 1
is shown another device for the same purpose, situated outside
the lock, which is -the subject matter of another application. It consists of a socket or bearing, , attached to the tie-piece,
E, of the door-bolt, and sliding on an independent stud, a',
resting against the lock-bolt. A spring locking-pin, i, is used
to connect the parts, when the door-bolt is thrown forward to
connect with the jamb. In this case, the lock-bolt, D, may be
made solid, and may be either of the turning or sliding kind.
[Other devices might be used to allow the door to shut. I
do not wish to confine myself to any particular form of tL,
device.]" The sentences in brackets were afterwards erased.
Sargent thus limited himself to combinations wherein one
or the other of the peculiar devices invented by him should
be an essential element, which is further evidenced by the fact
that, in claim 1, as accepted by him, the combination of the
clock-lock and combination lock, as applied to the doc)r-bolt,
was to be provided with a device whereby the door-bolt
might be retained in the unlocked- position for shutting the
door; and in clain! 2, the same combination was to be pro-.
vided with a lock-bolt having an opening or an offset which
was automatically brought in and out of coincidence with the
tongue of the door-bolt, whereby the latter might be retained
in the unlocked position for'shutting the door.
On the 16th of March, 1875, the examiner rejected claim 1,
saying that it was to be found substantially in the patent
granted to Cornell, August 10, 1858, for "safe bolt-work,"
and referring also to three -prior patents for time-locks, and
adding, that "merely to substitute either one of the above
time-locks for one of the locks shown in Cornell's patent,-is
not regarded as a patentable difference." To this Sargent's
attorney replied, on the 17th of XM arch, 1875: "The combination is such as to require something else tq be done other.
than to simply substitute for one of the key-locks shown in
Cornell's patent one of the time-locks cited by the examiner 1

OCTOBER TERM, 189.
Opinion of the Court.

This referred to the devices invented by Sargent, by which
his combination was made operative.
On the 19th of March, 1875, Sargent's attorney struck out
the parts in brackets, before quoted, and also struck out claim
I and substituted as claim 1 what is claim 2 in the original
patent as granted. On March 20, 1875, the attorney reinstated claim 1, and added as claim 2 what is claim 2 in the
original patent.
On the 22d of March, 1875, the examiner rejected both of
the claims, on the references before made, and referred also
to the English patent to W. Rutherford, of April 14, 1831.
lie added, that "a rotating lock-bolt having an opening or an
offset is not new," and referred especially to two prior patents, and said: "The second claim may possibly be allowed
if amended by inserting the words 'constructed in two parts
and' after ' lock-bolt.'"
An appeal was taken from this decision, and on the 27th
of March, 1875, the board of examiners-in-chief reversed the
decision of the examiner, doing so on the ground that the
combination embracing Sargent's peculiar devices for retaining the door-bolt in an unlocked posltion, 'for shutting the
door, were new and patentable. Before Sargent's patent
could issue, he was put into interference with Stockwell,
Burge and Little, and also with Pillard and Lillie. It is evident, from decisions made by the examiner of interferences,
and by the Commissioner of Patents, in questions arising in
some of these interferences, that Sargent was regarded as
making no claim to a broad combination between the boltwork of a door, and a time-lock, and an independent nontime-lock, which is the subject matter of claim 3 of reissue
No. 7947.
The examiner, the examiners-in-chief and the Commissioner
of Patents decided priority of invention in favor of Sargent, as
to the combination, by Sargent, of the bolt-work, with a timelock, and a non-time-lock, and his device for retaining -the
door-bolt in its retracted position, for shutting the door without interfering with the lock mechanism. The patent No.
195,539 was then issued, on September 25, 1877, with the

YALE LOOK CO. v. BERKSHIRE BAN-K.
Opinion of the Court.

two claims before set forth, limited by the proceedings which
so took place in the Patent 'Office.
The lock of the defendants did 'not infringe either of the
two claims of the original patent, for it did not contain what
is called in claim 1 "a device whereby the door-bolt may be
retained in the unlocked position for shutting the door," after
the time-lock is set ; nor did it contain what is called in claim
2 "a lock-bolt having an opening or an offset which is automatically brought in and out of coincidence with the tongue of
the door-bolt." This is apparent from the fact that it is not
contended that the defendants' lock infringes either claim 1
or claim 2 of reissue No. 7947, which two claims are substantially identical with claims 1 and 2 of the original patent.
On the 8th of October, 187"7, Sargent filed an application for
a reissue of patent No. 195,539. He inserted in his specifica-"
tion what is claim 3 of the reissue as granted. That claim is
as broad as the claim made in his application of May 9, 1874,
which, as before shown, he abandoned. The examiner rejected this claim twice, and after the second rejection, and on
the 26th of October, 1877, Sargent appealed to the examinersin-chief. In the statement of appeal his attorney said: "All
time-locks used with bolt-work must have some mechanical
arrangement to enable the bolt-work to be retracted for closing the door. Such is present in many old patents, and has
never been claimed by my client ; but what is claimed by him
is for the union of such an old, well-known time-lock with a
combination lock and bolt-work all arranged on the same door."
This shows the breadth of the claim, as compared with claims
1 and 2 of the original patent.
The examiner, in his answer to the reasons of appeal, said:
"Leaving out the descriptive and recitative parts of the
claim as well as all superfluous and misleading matter, we
have as the claim, the following elements and arrangements,
viz.: A combination or key-lock, and a time-lock, combified
with the bolt-work of a safe-door, both used independently
and resting against or connecting with the bolt-work. The
only elements are the two locks and the bolt-work, -no
other element being hinted at even, and the arrangement of

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

said elements is, that the locks rest against or connect with
bolt-work and are used independently of each other. To
recite, in the claim, that the 'key-lock is controllable from the
outside' and the 'time-lock upon the inside only' is entirely
unnecessary, for all key or combination locks of safes are controlled only from the outside, and all time-locks, as a matter of
course, upon the inside, are automatically unlocked. It is a
well-settled principle that a mere explanation of parts or recital of functions neither adds to nor takes away from a claim.
All the matter which recites that the door cannot be opened
until the lock allows it is a mere superfluity. If, in an ordinary lock patent, we were to add to the claim 'the arrangement being such that the door cannot be opened until it is
unlocked,' it would be simply laughable, as all locks of all
sorts serve just this purpose. This vast mass of words' in the
claim, while at first glance seeming to restrict the claim, will
be'found to be entirely misleading, the indisputable scope of
the claim being 'the simple .independently-acting time and
combination or key-lock resting against bolt-work of a safe.'
That is all-no more, no less. It is to be carefully noted,
that the claim does not restrict to using the locks upon the
door, but only ' in combination with the bolt-work of the door,'
and that the claim covers putting on Little or Derby, in the
usual way, a Sargent or other combination-lock." After reviewing the various decisions which took place during the pendency of the application of Sargent for his original patent, and
showing that the limitation of claims 1 and 2 thereof so as to
embrace the peculiar devices of Sargent was what saved them
on the question of patentability, the examiner said: "It very
clearly follows, that the claim, expanded so 'as to omit those
restrictions, is entirely untenable, in accordance with the very
terms of the commissioner and board decisions." The examiners-in-chief, however, on appeal, reversed the examiner's decision, and the reissue was g anted.
- It is very clear, from a comparison of the specification of the
.Olginal patent No. 195,539 with that of reissue No. 7947, that
the specification of the original was not defective or insufficient,
and t1hat the patent was not inoperative. Not only is there no

YALE LOOK CO. v. BERKSHIRE BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

evidence in this suit to that effect, but the evidence is to the contrary. The sole object of the reissue was manifestly to obtain
claim 3 as an enlarged claim. Not only is claim 3 an enlarged
claim, but, assuming that it was new and for a patentable combination, and that Sargent would have been entitled to make it
in his application for his original patent, he was debarred from
making it in his reissue. As'has been shown, he made such
a claim in May, 1874, and abandoned it. The application on
which his patent, No. 195,539, was granted, was pending in the
Patent Office from March 12, 1875, to September 25, 1877, and
no such claim was made. On the contrary, he struck out from
his specification matters evincing an intention to claim something more than the specific devices be had invented; and it
is quite evident that the consideration by the Patent Office of
those specific devices, and the evidence of invention afforded
by them, enabled him to procure his original patent with its
limited claims 1 and 2.
The effect of such an abandonment of a claim upon the
validity of a reissue has been often adjudged by this court.
Leggett v. Avery, 101 U. S. 256, 259 ; .Mahn v. Harwood, 112
U. S. 354, 359 ; Cartridge Co. v. Cartridge Co., 112 U. S. 624,
644 ; Shepard v. Carrigan,116 U. S. 593, 597, 598; Roemer v.
Peddie, 132 U. S. 313, 317.
Nor does the fact that reissue No. 7947 was applied for only
thirteen days after the grant of the original patent establish its
validity. In Coon v. Wilson, 113 U. S. 268, 277, enlarged claims
in a reissued patent were declared invalid, although the reissue
was applied for a little over three months after the original
was granted, on the ground that a clear mistake, inadvertently
committed, in the wording of a claim, was necessary, without
reference to the length of time. See also Ares v. Sargent, 119
U. S. 652, 663; Parker & Whipple Co. v. Yale Clock Co., 123
U. S. 87, 103.
These views dispose of claim 3 of reissue No. 7947, independently of the ground on which the Circuit Court held it
to be invalid and all other considerations urged by the defendants.
We come now to consider claims 1 and 7 of reissue No. 8550

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

of the Little patent, granted January 21, 18,79, on an application filed October 14, 1878.
The specification, drawings and claims of Little's original
patent, No. 146,832, were as follows:
"Be it known that I, Samuel A. Little, of Buckland, in the
county of Franklin and State of Massachusetts, have made
certain new and useful improvements in clock-locks, whereof
the following is a specification, reference being had to the
accompanying drawings, in which Figure 1 is a front view
of my improved clock-lock attached to the inside of a safe,
adjacent to the hinged part of the safe-door. Fig. 2 shows a
seventh-day wheel, marked A in Fig. 1. Fig. 3 shows a camwheel, marked B in Fig. 1. Fig. 4 shows a graduated camwheel, marked C in Fig. 1. Fig. 5 represents the inside of
a safe with the door-bolts locked forward by the lever-dog,
which is elevated by the clock-look. Fig. 6 represents a horizontal section of my clock-lock detached from the clocks, the
dog-lever excepted, taken through. the linevw of Fig. 1. Fig.
7 represents a vertical section of the same, (similarly detached,
excepc, that the clock-wheels to which the same is immediately
attached -re shown,) taken Lhrough the line y y of Fig. 1. In
t06 vrtiis figures, similar letters indicate similar parts.
"D and E are two clock-movements fastened to the inside,
F, of a safe, adjacent to the hinged part of a safe-door, G.
Said clock-movements, through the wheels and ratchets K and
L, (shown by the dotted lines, Fig. 1,) which are rotated once
in twelve hours by the clock, propel the wheels H and I in the
same time in the direction of the arrows thereon. The wheels
H and I are both geared to the common wheel iAf, having
twice as many teeth as either H or I, and propel the same in
the direction of the arrow thereon, so that, while H and I are
rotated once in twelve hours, M is rotated once a day. It will
therefore be seen that both clocks work together in turning
the wheel M, and thereby operating the lock, while, if either
.clock stops, the wheel H or I of the other will alone continue
t rotate the wheel M and operate the lock, as the ratchet
allows free motion to the wheel I or H of the other clock,
although said clock may be stopped. Forming part of the

YALE LOCT CO. v. BERKSHIRE BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

wheel M is the toothed wheel N, which is geared into and
drives the toothed wheel 0. Forming part of the wheel 0 is
the toothed wheel P, which is geared into and drives the
seventh-day wheel A. A has twice as many teeth as P, and
O has three and a half times as many teeth as N. Therefore,
while M revolves once in a day, it propels A to revolve once
in seven days. The wheel C, which is graduated for the hours
of the day, is fastened upon the hub a of the wheel M4 by the
projection 6, and rotates with the same. On the same hub is
the wheel B, which is fastened by friction to C in different
positions by the thumb-screw Q, which forms part of the
Tppp
wheel B, and passes through the slot o of the wheel C. _
are pivots, on which the several wheels revolve. The wheel
B is cut away on the outer edge, leaving the depression d and
the cam-projection e thereon; and the edge of C is similarly
cut away, leaving the depressionfand the cam-projection g
thereon. When the two wheels B and C are fastened together
by the thumb-screw Q, side by side, they form one wheel, and
have a common depression, A, which may be enlarged or
diminished by rotating the wheel B on the wheel A with the
thumb-screw, and setting the same, and a common cam or
projection i, which may be enlarged or diminished in the same
manner. Pivoted near the lock 'is the two-armed lever, R,
whereof one arm carries the roller, S, and is lifted through
the same by the cam i, revolving under the same at said cam's
inclined plane k, and, at the same time, the other arm, T, of
said lever lifts the dog-lever, V, as shown by the dotted lines,
Fig. 1, up behind the door-bolts W W W W into the position
shown in Fig. 5, thereby locking said bolts forward behind
the jamb of the safe so the door cannot be opened. Said doglever V is pivoted at 1. On the other hand, when the cam i
is rotated entirely under the roller S,said roller is suffered to
drop by gravity into the depression h at the inclined plane m,
which allows the dog-lever V to fall from behind the safe-.
bolts, and the safe to be opened. The seventh-day wheel A
has on its edge a cam-projection, n, which rotates once while
the depression h rotates seven times, as described, and is so
arranged relatively to the. said depression A that,' on every

382

OCTOBER TERM, 1889
Ojinlon of the Court.

YALE LOCK CO v. BERKSHIRE BARX.
Opinion of the Court.

Ti0 ..

Fig. 3.

(

Be

seventh revolution thereof, it is brought under the roller S,
and holds up the lever R while the depression Apass6s under
it, so that every seventh. day the same prevents the safe from
being unlocked.
"From the description aforesaid, the mode of operation will
be obvious. The clocks are set to true time by bringing the
hour-mark on the dial 0 under the roller S, which is readily
done by turning the dial, as the wheels A, B, 0, and M are
freely turned in the direction of the arrow on C, inasmuch as
the ratchets behind H and I do not interfere with motion in
that direction, but take up, and, through the clock's force,
proceed with, whatever advance of said-wheels may be made.
The lock is then set to lock up at any given hour, by loosening the thumb-screw Q and turning the inclined plane k of
the wheel B to the mark of the required hour, and then fasten-'
ing the wheels B and 0 together by setting the thumb-screw Q.
"If it is desired to have the lock open any amount of time
earlier than-the set time, (nine o'clock,) the wheel 0 must be
turned, as described, until the time indicated under the roller
shall be that amount fait of true time, the closing-mark being
altered, if desired, to suit the case. If it is desired'to open
later, the clocks must be stopped until they are slow of tinIe
as much as it is desired the lock shall open later than the set
time, correcting the closing-mark, if desired.
"If the wheels A, B, C, and M are turned, as described,
until the cam part n of the wheel A shall be in position to
come under the roller S, and keep the lock from opening on
Sunday, it-will continue to do so on Sunday each week if the
clocks run on unchanged. In case that it shall be desired'

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.

384

Opiuion of the Court.

-Ti.6.

YALE LOCK CO. v. BERKSHIRE BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

that the lock shall not open for a holiday or other day, the
said wheels may be rotated until said cam part n is in position to come under and hold up the lever R on said day.
"The look is affixed to the side F of the safe, as described,
to avoid derangement or stoppage of the clocks by concussion
on the door.
"1It is evident that the dog-lever V and the lever R may be
the same piece. The object in making the same in two parts
is to save the weight of the part V, which depends upon the
pivot 1, from adding to the labor of the clocks.
"What I claim as my invention, and for which I pray
letters-patent, is "1. The combination, with one or more clock-movements,
of one or more wheels, H I, one or more ratchets, K L, and
a common wheel, M, arranged as described, for the purposes
set forth.
"2 ,v-e wheels B and C, with the depressions d and f and
the projections e and g, located relatively to each other as
described, to increase and diminish the surface of a common
cam, i, or depression h, by rotation on each other, for the
purposes described.
"3. The wheel A with a cam, n, adjusted as described, to
prevent the falling of the lever R and dog V, either periodically or at required times, as described."
The specification, claims; and drawings of reissue No. 8550
are as follows:
"Be it known that I, Samuel A. Little, of Shelburne, in the
county of Franklin and State of Massachusetts, have invented
certain new and useful improvements in chronometric locks;
and I do hereby declare that-the following is a full, clear, and
exact description thereof, that will enable others skilled in the
art to which it appertains to make and use the same, reference
being had to the accompanying drawings, and-to the letters
of reference marked thereon, which form a part of this specification.
"The object of my invention is to construct a time-look
which shall dog and release the multiple bolt-work of a safe
or vault at certain predetermined times, both the dogging and
VOL. cxxxv-25

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

releasing being caused by the operation of the time mechanism. By this means the time when the look will dog the
bolt-work depends entirely on the adjustment of the internal
mechanism pf the look, hereinafter described.
"I provide adjustable devices, so that the periods when the
lock shall be locked and unlocked may be varied at will; and
I also provide a device whereby, at certain intervals - say on
every seventh day -the

lock will remain locked during the

time when ordinarily it would be unlocked.
"It will thus be seen that I have constructed a lock which

will, of itself, dog and release bolt-work at a regular hour
each day, except on certain predetermined days - Sundays,
for example - when it will remain in the looked position all
day. My lock,, when once adjusted, is therefore absolutely
automatic, requiring no attention except winding; and it is, so
far as I am aware, the first time-lock which locks at a time
determined by the time mechanism, while at the same time
the hours for locking and unlocking can be changed without
altering the construction of the lock.
"To diminish the chances of accident from the stoppage of
the time mechanism, I provide two independent movements,
both of which assist in rotating the dial to actuate the lock;
but, should one stop, the other will coniinue to rotate the
dial.
" The particular construction of my *lock is, that the two
time-movements rotate a graduated dial so arranged that its
motion oscillates, at certain regular determinable intervals, a
pivoted bent lever, which in turn, in one instance, for automatic locking,-lifts the free part of, and thus oscillates on its
stationary pivot, a metallic dog or obstruction, so as to cause
it to rest in the way, and prevent the retraction of the sliding
bolt-work; and in the other instance, for automatic unlocking,
'it withdraws its support from under and permits the dog' to
oscillate by gravity, so as to clear the way for the retraction
of the bolt-work.
"The adjustability of my lock for locking and unlocking I
obtain by means of my dial, which is so arranged that what
I may call its 'bolt or dog-actuating points' can readily be

YALE LOCK CO. v. BERKSHIRE BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

changed from one position to another, so that they will actuate the dogging mechanism at any desired hours for locking
or unlocking; and it is to be noted, that in all continuously
running dials, the adjustability for unlocking or locking
preferably will be obtained in substantially the same way i.e., by varying the position of the dog-actuating pointsbecause the dial itself should always be running on correct
time.
"I cause the lock to remain locked on Sundays or other
desired days, by means of a supplemental cam, which temporarily assumes one of the functions of my dial, and by which
I can at any desired time cause the lock to remain locked
during a greater period than twenty-four hours.
"Referring now to the drawings in aid of a description of
my lock in detail, figure 1 is a front view of my improved
time-lock attached to the inside of a safe, adjacent to the
hinge part of the safe-door; Fig: 2, a v4ew of the same, partly
in elevation and partly in section, on the line 2 2 of Fig. 1;
Fig. 3, a horizontal transverse section thereof on the line 3 3 of
Fig. 1, with the upper time-movements removed, showing a plan
of the locking mechanism, proper; Fig. 4, a horizontal transverse section through the centre of the locking dials ; Fig. 5, a
perspective view of the interior of a 'safe, showing the doorbolts locked forward by the lever-dog; Fig. 6, a perspective
view of the graduated dial (marked 0 in Fig. 1); Fig. 7, a
similar view of wheel B in Fig. 1; Fig. 8 a similar view of a
seventh-day wheel (marked A in Fig: 1).
"D and E designate two time-movements fastened to the
inside, F, of a safe, adjacent to the hinged part of the s4fedoor G. These time-movements, through the wheels and
ratchets K and L, propel the wheels H and I in the directi"n
of the arrows thereon. These wheels H and I rotate once iri
twelve hours, and are both geared to the common wheel M,
which has twice as many teeth as either of them, and they.
propel it in the direction of the arrow thereon, so that while
wheels H and I are rotated once in twelve hours, wheel M is
rotated only once a day.
"It will be seen that both time-movements work together

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

in thrnig the wheel M, and thereby operate the lock; but if
either accidentally stops, the wheel H or I of the other will
alone continue to rotate the wheel M and operate the lock,
because each'ratchet will allow free motion to either wheel I
or H; in the absence of its normal impelling force.
"The toothed wheel N, forming part of the wheel M, is
geared into and drives the toothed wheel 0.- The toothed
wheel P, forming part of the wheel 0, is geared into and drives
ihe seventh-day. wheel A, which turns loosely on the hub a,
of the wheel M. This wheel A has twice as many teeth as
wheel P, and wheel 0 has three and a half times as many
teeth as. wheel N. Therefore, while wheel Ml revolves once in a
day, it only causes wheel A to revolve once in seven days.
The wheel 0, which is graduated for the hours of the day, is
fastened rigidly upon the hub a by means of the projection b
and rotates with it. Loose on the same hub is the wheel B,
which may be fastened by fyiction to the wheel C in different
positions by the thumb-screw Q, that is attached to, or forms
part of, the wheel B, and passes through the slot c of the
wheel 0.
"p p pp p designate pivots, on which the several wheels
revolve. The wheel B is cut away on its periphery, leaving
the depression 1 and the cam projection e, and the periphery
of the wheel C is similarly cut away, leaving the depression
f anid the cam projection g, of the same form and size as the
depression and projection of the wheel B. When these two
wheels. are fastened together by the thumb-screw Q side by
side, they form one wheel or dial, having a depression h., which
may be enlarged or diminished by rotating the wheel B by
means of the thumb-screw, and then setting it, and also having a cam or projection, i, which may be enlarged or diminished in: the same manner. Pivoted near its middle to the
lock-ease is the bent lever R, one arm of which carries the
friction-roller S, and is lifted by the cam i. revolving under
the roller at the cam's inclined plane 7c, and at the same time
the other arm, T, of said lever lifts the dog V, pivoted at 1,up
behind the door-bolts W W W W into the position shown in
Fig. 5, thereby locking the bolts forward behind the jamb of

YALE LOOK CO. v. BERKSHIRE BkNK.
Opinion of the Court.

the safe, so that the door cannot be opened. In due time,
when the cam i is rotated entirely from under the roller S, the
latter will drop into the depression h at the inclined plane m,
which allows the dog V to fall from behind the safe-bolts,
when they may be retracted and the safe opened.
"It will- be noted that the dog always tends to turn on its
pivot automatically by gravity, so as to present a free space
for the retraction of the bolt-work, and it is held up only for
predetermined periods, to"be measured by the time mechanism,
by the bent lever.
"The seventh-day wheel A has on its periphery a cam projection, n, which rotates once while the depression A rotates
seven times, as described, and it is so arranged relatively to
the depression h,that on every seventh revolution thereof it is
brought under the roller S and holds up the lever R,while the
depression h passes under it, so that every seventh day this projection n prevents the safe from being unilocked.
"From the foregoing description the mode of operation will
be obvious.
"The time-movements, should be set to correct time by
bringing the hour-mark on the dial C under the roller S,
which is readily done by turning the dial, as the wheels A, B,
C, and Al turn freely in the direction of the arrow on wheel
C, because the ratchets behind wheels H and I do not interfere
with motion in that direction, but take up, and, through the
force of the time-movements, proceed with, whatever advance
of said wheels may be made. The lock should then be set to
lock up at any given hour by loosening the thumb-screw Q,
and turning the inclined plane k of the wheel B to the mark
of the required hour, and then fastening the wheels B and C
together by setting the thumb-screw Q. The dial will then
indicate the time of locking and unlocking, and the operation
of the time-movements will cause the oscillation of the dog
into position to obstruct the retraction of the bolt-work in a
little time, or at whatever time may have been decided upon,
and it will be held there until the time arrives for unlocking,
when the continued operation of the time-movements will withdraw its support, and it will fall out of the way.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

"If it is desired to have the safe opened any given amount
of time earlier than the set time, -say

9 o'clock, - the wheel

o must be turned, as described, until the time

indicated under
the roller shall be that aniount fast of the correct time, the
closing-mark being altered, if desired, to suit the case. If it is
desired to open later, the clocks must be stopped until they are
.slow of the time as much as it is desired the lock shall'open
later than the set time, cbrrecting the closing-mark, if desired.
"If the wheels A, B, 0, and i, are turned, as described,
until the cam part n of the wheel A shall be in a position to
come under the roller S and keep the lock from opening on
Sunday, it will continue to do so on Sunday each week, if the
time-movements run on unchanged. Thus, the necessity for
setting the mechanism on every Sattrday, so that it shall keep
the safe locked over Sundajr, is obviated, which is a great convenience to bankers, and is, furthermore, a security against
.neglect to set the mechanism weekly, which might sometimes
occur. In case it shall be desired that the lock shall not open
for a holiday or other day, the said wheels may be rotated
until the cam projection 'nis in position to come under the
roller S and hold up the lever R on such day.
"The lock is affixed to the side F of the safe, as described,
to avoid derangement or stoppage of the time-movements by
concussion on the door; but it is obvious that- it may be affixed
to the door without modifying its construction, if desired, that
being merely a change of location.
"It is evident that the dog V and the lever R may be one
and the same piece. The object of making them in two parts
is to save the weight of the part V, which depends upon the
pivot , from adding to the labor of the time-movements, and
also to mak6 the dog or obstruction entirely distinct from the
time mechanism.
"I am aware of the patent granted to Williams and Cummings, No. 17,245, and dated ,Mav 5, 1857, and do not claim
anything shown therein, but intend to limit my claims to
comprehend only the improvements I have made over the
peculiar combinations shown in that patent, whereby I reduce the number, modify the construction, change the relative

YALE LOCK CO. v. BERKSHIRE BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

position and mode of operation of the parts, and simplify my
mechanical organiZation, as will fully appear by comparison.
"What- I claim as my invention is "1. The combination of independent multiple bolt-work
with the time mechanism and locking or dogging mechanism
of a time-lock, automatically both dogging and releasing the
bolt-work at predetermined times, substantially as described.
"2. The combination, in a time-lock, of a continuously revolving adjustable device for determining the time of operation of the unlocking mechaiiism, a pivoted arm or lever actuated by said device, and a dog or obstruction movable directly
by said pivotal arm at regularly-recurring periods, to permit
the retraction of the bolt-work, substantially as described.
"3. In a time-lock, the combination of time mechanism, a
revolving dial actuated thereby, a dog and suitable connecting
mechanism, whereby the continuous revolution of the dial
causes the dog to move into the locked and unlocked positions
alternately, substantially as described.
"4 . In a time-lock, the combination of a continuously-rotatin g dial and mechanism which causes the- lock to look and unlock automatically, substantially as described.
"5. In a time-lock, a continuously-rotating dial provided
with an adjustable device for automatically determining the
time of locking, substantially as described.
"6. In a time-lock, the combination, substantially as above
set forth, of the time-movements and an adjustable device for
automatically determining the time of locking.
"7. In a time-lock, the combination, substantially as above
set forth, of the time-movements and two adjustable devices,
one for determining the time of locking, and the other of
unlocking.
"S. In a time-lock, the combination with the time mechanism and the locking or dogging mechanism, of an adjustable
device which, through the continuous operation of the time
mechanism, will periodically, or at required times, cause the
lock to remain locked during a greater period than twentyfour hours, substantially as described.
"9. In a continuously-running automatic time-lock, the

392

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
(Opinion of the Court.

YALE LOCK'CO. v. BERKSHIRE BANK.

393

Opinion of the Court.

.Fi#.6.

Fig. S.

391

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

YALE LOCK CO v. BERKSHIRE bAMK.
Opinion of the Court.

combination, with the time mechanism and the locking or
dogging mechanism, of an independent device a'dapted to be
set to prevent, at any desired time, the unlocking of the lock
for a greater period than twenty-four hours, substantially as
described.
"10. The combination, substantially as above set forth, of
the adjustable mechanism for continuously locking and unlocking daily the time-movements, and a device for preventing
unlocking during a greater period than twenty-four hours.
"11. In a time-lock provided with two independent timemovements and an interlocking device common to both, the
combination, with each of said movements, of a ratchet and
pawl interposed between the last or driving arbor of each
movement and the said common uhlocking device,,whereby
the said device may be driven by either or both of the movements, and the stoppage of one movement will not necessarily
cause the stoppage of the other, substantially as described.
"112. The combination, with the time-movements, of the
wheels -Hand I, the ratchets K L, and the common wheel MNf,
arranged substantially as described, for the purpose set forth.
"13. In combination with the dial, the seventh-day camwheel A, adjustable, as described, to prevent the falling of
the bent lever R and dog V, either periodically or at required
times, as described.
"14. The combination, in a time-lock, of time mechanism, a
revolving graduated dial actuated thereby, a bent lever oscillated by the revolution of the dial on an immovable pivot, and
a dog or obstruction, also oscillated on an immovable pivot, the
lever and dog being so arranged that when one arm of. the lever
is pushed aiide at a predetermined time by the revolution of
the dial, the other arm withdraws its support from under and
permits the dog to turn by gravity, thereby leaving a free
space for the retraction of the bolt-work, substantially as
described.
"15. The combination of multiple sliding bolt-work, a dog
or obstruction oscillated on an immovable pivot, and tending,
by gravity, to turn so as not to dog the bolt-work, a bent
lever, oscillated also on an immovable pivot, for holding the

OCTOBER TERI, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

dog in position against gravity, to dog the bolt-work, a revolving graduated dial, which, by its revolution at a predetermined
time, oscillates the bent lever, and time mechanism that
actuates the dial, substantially as described.
"16. The combination, substantially as before set forth,
by means of suitable connecting mechanism, of the following
elements, adapted, as combined, so to secure the door of a safe
or vault, and to automatically release the same at a predetermined time, viz.: first, the multiple sliding bolt-wdrk; second,
the oscillating stop or dog, adapted to prevent the retraction
of the bolt-work, and to be turned on its pivot to release the
bolt-work at a time determined by the clock-work ; third, the
vibrating lever for holding the stop or dog in position to prevent the retraction of the bolt-work; and, fourth, the clockwork for determining the time when said lever shall be moved
to permit the stop or dog to release the bolt-work.
"17. In a chronometric locking mechanism, the combination, substantially as before set forth,.of the following elements,
adapted as combined, to guard or dog the bolt-work of a safe
or vault-door, and to automatically release the same at a predetermined time, viz. : first, the oscillating stop or dog,
adapted to prevent the retraction of the bolt-work, and to be
turned on its pivot to release the bolt-work at a time determined by the clock-work; second, the vibrating lever for holding the dog ir,
position to prevent the retraction of the boltwork; third, the clock-work for determining the time when
said lever shall be moved to permit the dog to fall to release
the bolt-work; and, fourth, the graduated wheel or dial,
rotated by the clock-work, and adapted to operate said lever,
and to be set for varying and controlling the time when said
lever shall be moved to permit the dog to release the boltwork."
. Only claims 1 and 7 of the reissue are alleged to have been
infringed. They take the place of claim 2 of the original
patent. They were before Judge Shipman in the cases in 19
Blatchford and 6 Fed. Rep. above referred to, and he held
that they covered new inventions and patentable improvements. Judge Lowe]l, in his opinion in the present case,

YALE LOOK CO. v. BERKSHIRE 'BANK.
Opinion of the' Court.

states that he fully agrees with the views of Judge Shipman as
to the novelty and patentability of claims I and 7. Although
the defendants' lock has but one time-movement to control the
lever which controls the dog, Judge Lowell held that that did
not affect the question of the infringement of claims 1 and 7.
In September, 1887, in Tale Lock .Mfg. Co. v. ..ew Haven
Savings Bank, 32 Fed. Rep. 167, in the Circuit Court for the
District of Connecticut, Judge Shipman had before him the,
question of a rehearing as to the validity of claims 1 and 7,
and especially the question whether claim 7 was an enlargement of claim 2 of the original patent. He held that claim 7
"should be limited to the invention which was described and
claimed in the original patent, which invention was not confined to a 'c ommon cam, or to a device which was connected
with the compound wheel in the same way in which the cam
was connected, but was broad enough to include equivalent
means of connection with the dog." He held also that the
owners of the patent had not abandoned, by proceedings in
the Patent Office in respect to the two prior reissues of it,
their right -to claim, in reissue No. 8550, a double or compound
diso, and to obtain a valid patent therefor.
Claims 1 and 7 were sustained als6 by Judge Sage, in the
Circuit Court for the Western Division of the Southern District
of Ohio, in May, 1889, in the case of Y-dle & Towne -Mfg. Co.
v. Consolidated Time-4ock Co., 38 Fed. Rep. 917.
This patent, as before stated, was reissued May 9, 1876, as.
No: 7104, and again, January 8, 1878, as No. 8035. The lock
used by the defendants is made under letters patent No.
173,121, granted to Henry Gross, February 8, 1876, for an
"improvement in time-attachments for locks." This patent
was issued prior to the granting of any reissue of the Little
patent. While -the original patent, No. 146,832, had only
three claims, reissue No. 7104:' had eight claims, reissue No.
8035 had six claims, and reissue No. 8550 has seventeen claims.
On comparing the various reissues with the original patent,
it is found that the drawings and the description of them are
substantially the same in all, with some changes in nomenclature; and it is quite apparent that the original patent was not

398

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

inoperative or invalid by reason of a defective or insufficient
specification, within the terms of the statute, so as to warrant
the reissues.
There is in the record a copy of the file-wrapper and contents of reissue No. 8035, applied for December 15, 1877, and
granted January 8, 1878. The specification presented with
the application contained only two claimns, both of which made
"a revolving dial" an essential element. On the 18th of
December, 1877, an entirely new specification and claims were
put in, the claims being. ten in number. Claim 3 was as fol'lows: "13. In a time-lock the combination, substantially as
above set forth, of the clock-work and two -adjustable divices
for determining, respectively5 the times of locking and unlocking:" That claim 3 is very similar to claim 7 of reissue No.
8550. On the 21st of December, 1877, -that claim 3 was
amended by striking out the word "clock-work," and inserting
the words "time-movemehits," so that it became almost exactly
the same as 'claim 7 of reissup No. 8550. On the 26th of
December,'1877, that claim 3 was erased.
rlaim4 of reissue No. 8035, as originally applied for, read
as.ollows: "The combination with one or more time-movements, of one or more wheels,- H I, one or more ratchets,. K L,
and a common Wheel, M, arranged as described, for the purposes set forth." This claim 4 was erased with plaim 3, and
in 'their place there was inserted the following as claim 3:
"The combination with .the time-movements of the wheels
H I, the ratchets K L, and the common wheel, 2M, arranged as
described, for the purpose set forth."
Claim 5 of reissue No. 8035, as applied for, was identical
with claim 2 of the, original patent, No. 146,832, as granted.
That claim 5 was rejected by the examiner, on the ground
that it was old in vale-gear for steam engines, with a reference to a prior patent; and on the 26th of December, 1877, it
was erased and abandoned. Therefore, more than a year
before reissue No. 8550 was granted, claim 2 of the original
patent was abandoned by Little; and at the same time he also
abandoned claim 3 of his application, after he had put it in
such shape that it became substantially the same as claim 7 of

ZALE LOOK CO. v. .BARKSHIRE BA2TK.
Opinion of the Court.

reissue No. 8550.

Reissue No. 8035 was taken out without

those claims. No one of the six claims of reissue No. 8035
was infringed by the lock of the defendants, which was applied
to use during the existence of reissue -Yo. 8035. A little over
nine months after it was granted, the application for reissue
No. 8550 was filed; and the present suit was brought eight
days after that reissue was granted.
In the slecification of reissue No. 8035, the following statements were made: "The object of my invention is to construct
a time-lock, and to combine it with the multiple sliding boltwork of a safe or vault-door, so that, by the continuous movement of its time mechanism, locking and unlocking will be
effected daily or periodically. . . . The gist of my invention, therefore, is the combination, in a time-lock, of time
mechanism revolving a graduated dial, which serves to oscillate
a pivoted bent lever, that, in turn, induces the oscillation of a
pivoted dog or obstruction to the retraction of the multiple
sliding bolt-work. Subordinate to this main principle or chief
organization of my time-lock, I provide that my dial shall. be
composite in its construction, whereby I obtain what I term
a 'differential cam' for convenience- of adjustment." These
statements do not appear in the specification of reissue No.
8550. In the lattrr specification, what had been previously
called "a revolving graduated dial" is called "adjustable
devices;" the dial is said to have "bolt or dog-actuating
points;" and a statement is made that the lock of Little "is,
so far as I am aware, the first time-lock which locks at a time
determined by the time mechanism, while at the same time the
hours for locking and unlocking can be changed without altering the construction of the lock." So that, in this reissue,
which was granted almost five years after the date of the
original patent, and over three years after the Gross patent was
issued, the attempt is made by Little to cover all devices for
determining the time of locking and unlocking, on the view
that he was the first to invent a lock that would lock up as
well as unlock at a predetermined time. This attempt is
embodied in claims I and 7 of reissue No. 8550, which are
here repeated: "1. The combination of independent multiple

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

,b6lt-work with the time mechanism and locking or dogging
mechanism of a time-109k, automatically both dogging and
releasing the bolt-work at predetermined times, substantially
as described." "7. In a time-look, the combination, substantially as above set forth, -of the time movements and two
adjustable devices, one for determining the time of locking,
and the other of unlocking."
ilthough the first reissue,, No. 7104, was applied for March
15, 1876, more than two months after the Gross patent was
.issued, no such claims as the above were applied for or taken,
nor were they taken in reissue No. 8035. Claims 3, 7 and 8
.of reissue *o. 7104 were abandoned in reissue No. 8035, and
severally appear as claims 7, 16 and 17, in reissue No. 8550,
claim 7 in No. 8550 being in these words, as claim 3, in No.
7104: "3. In a chronometric locking mechanism, the combination, sibstantially as before set forth, of the clock-work
and two adjustable deyices for determining, respectively, the
time of locking and unlocking,". Claims 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 8, 9
and 11 in No. 8550 are entirely new. Claim 2 of the original
patent, No. 146,832, was not retained in No. 8550, and only
two claims out of the seventeen in No. 8550 are found in the
original patent.
Infringement is alleged of claim 1 of reissue No. 8550,
which is an entirely new claim, not found in the original patent or in any prior reissue, and of claim 7, which was claim
3 in reissue No. 7104, and was first amended and then abandoned in the application for reiqsue No. 8035. If claim 1 of
reissue No. 8550 is construed to cover only the specific devices
of Little, operating in the mode described by him, and thus
is- no broader than claim 2 of the original patent, the defendants' lock does not infringe it. If it is not so limited, it
is void, under nunierous decisions of this court.
In Little's time-lock, there is a compound cam-wheel or
disd, composed of two cam-wheels placed face to face on the
same axis, each having a portion of its outer edge cut away,
and so arranged that they can be turned with relation to each
other so as to increase the length of their common pr6jection
or common depression, and be fastened together in any'de-

YALE LOCK CO. v. BERKSHIRE BAML
Opinion'of the Court.

sired position by means of, a slot and a thumb-screw in one of
them. When adjusted, this compound cam-wheel is revolved
by clock-work and made alternately to lift up and let down a
lever which in turn lifts up or lets down another lever, the
end of which is supported in a position behind one of the
bolts of the door, or is allowed to drop away from behind it,
thus alternately dogging and releasing the bolt. It is the
office of the common projection on the wheels to lift, and
then hold up, the levers in the dogging position; and the
length of time the bolts will remain dogged depends solely
on the length of the common"projection.
In the defendants' lock there is only one time-movement,
and there are no wheels of any kind, much less wheels like the
cam-wheels B and C of Little's original patent, with projections and depressions, which can be rotated so as to increase
and diminish the surface of a common -cam or -depression;
nor has it any cam projection or cam depression of any kind,
formed in ny manner, whose office is to lift and hold up and
let fall a lever, and thus dog and release the bolt of a safedoor; nor has it a device of any kind capable of performing
the function of Little's cam-wheels. Little does not describe'
or suggest, in his original patent, any way by which he can
dispense with the use of his cam projections to lift and hold
up the dog; and he confines claim 2 of his original patent
to a combination in which two cam-wheels, capable of being
rotated and adjusted with relation to each other, "so as to
increase and diminish the surface of a common cam, for the
purpose of lifting and holding up the dog, are essential.
Claim 7 of reissue No. 8550 was evidently drawn so as to
cover the time-attachment of the defendants' lock, which .does
not itself lock up or unlock the bolt-work, but only "ceterminis the time when the bolt work maybe unlocked by the
combination-lock. Cla 'n,7 is not limited -o-4evices' which
automatically lock an'd unlock, but extends to devices which
merely interfere -with. -echanical - logking and unlocking.
Such a construction of climT 7, -aclaim once -abandoned in the
Patent Office and restored hi this reissue, cannot -be admitted
i consistency with nurawrous-decisions of this court on the'
VOL. cmxxv-26

OCTOBER TEMN

1889.

Opinion of. the Court.

subject of reissues. If, however, claim 7 is so construed as to
be"no broader than claim 2 of the original patent, then the
defendants' lock, as, it did not infringe the latter claim, does
not infringe claim 7.
It is shown that it was old to use time mechanism, revolving dialA with adjustable devices, pivoted levers and dogs,
to. lock and unlock door-bolts; and that the combination of
clock-work, adjustable cam-wheels, and a two-armed lever
oscillated thereby, was old."- In this view, in his original
patent, Little very properly limited his claims to his mode of.
connecting -two clocks with a common wheel, so that both
could apt tbgether in turning it, and either one could turn it
alone in case the other stopped; and to the employment of
the specific cam-wheels with depressions and projections so
located as to increase and diminish the surface of a common
c~m by rotation on each other, so as to lift and hold up.the
dog behind the bolt of the door; and to the introduction of
his Sunday wheel. The lock. of the defe.ndants did not.
infringe any of the claims of the original patent, because it
'did not have the two clocks, the Sunday wheel, the camwheels or any mechanipal equivalent therefor, alad did not
move the dog automatically into the dogging position.,
The application for reissue No. 7104: was made more than
two years after the original patent was granted, and one.
month and seven days after the Gross patent was isgued, containing the devices, which are employed in the defendants'
lock. :Reissue No. 8550 was applied, for nearly four"years and
nine months after the original patent was granted, and more
than two years and eight months after the Gross patent was
issued, and, after the lock of the defendants had been put into
use. No excuse is shown for these delays; nor is there any
defect or insufficiency in, -the specification of the original
patent. In December, 1877, during the pendency of the
application for reissue No. 8035, Little acquiesced in the rejection, for want of noyelty, of claim 2 of his origin~al patent, and
then abandoned a claim corresponding with claim 7 of reissue
-No. 8550, and took out reissue No. 8035 without such claim.
The lock of the defendants did not infringe any claim of

IT RE BAIZ.
Syllabus.

reissue No. 8035. Claim I of reissue No. 8550 is entirely new,
and claim 7 of that reissue is the same as claim 3 of the application for reissue No. 8035, which claim was first amended
and then abandoned. It was not lawful to introduce claim -T
into reissue No. 8550, after such formal abandonment of it.
If either claim 1 or claim 7 of reissue No. 8550 covers a device
which would, not have been covered by claim 2 of the original
patent, or by any of the claims of reissue No. 8035, it is invalid; and even if claims 1 and 7 could properly be restricted
to the cam-wheels of the specification or their mechanical
equivalents, operating as described, as claim 2 of the original
patent was restricted, the lock of the defendants does not
infringe either claim 1 or claim T.
For these reasons, it must be held that the plaintiffs have
no cause of action against the defendants under claims 1 and
7 of reissue No. 8550.
It results that the decree of February 12, 1886, must be
affirmed so far as it relates to the Sargent reissue N7To.
7947, and reversed so far as it relates to the little reissue
7
o. 8550, and the cause be remanded to the Circuit Court
with a direction to dismiss t4e bill of complaint, with cost8
to the defendants. As the plaintiffsfazil in this court o24'
both appeals, they are to pay the costs of this court on both
,ppeals.

IN

RE BAIZ, Petitioner.
ORIGIN AL.

No.11.

Original. Argued March 31, April 1, 1890.--Oecded May 5, 18O.

The Consul General of Guatemala and Honduras in New York, being a citizen of and resident in the United States, was accredited by the government
of Honduras as its diplomatic Yepresentative here. The Secretary of
State declined to receive him as such, on the ground that the immunities
and privileges attaching to the office made it inconsistent and inconvenient that a citizen of the United States should "enjoy so anomalous a
position." The Consul General their inquired whether the Department
would regard him as chargi6 d'affaires "ad hoc of Hondura , without
relieving him(6)ds duties and iegpoibilities as a citizen; to which
the Department replied that it could-4ot' ' ognize his agency as con- .

