OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

LODGE v. TWIELL.
APPEAL

FROM

THE

SUPREME

COURT

OF

THIE TERRITORY- OF

MONTANA.
No. 284.

Submilted April 18,1890.-

Decided April 28,1890.

A decree in equity setting aside a conveyance of pdrsonaltr and of real
estate as fraudulently made to hinder, delay and defraud the plaintiff,
and appointing a receiver of all the 'property of both classes, and
ordering a sale of all that remained, and an accounting by the defendants
of so much of the personalty as they had parted with and of the proceeds
thereof, and the payment of arrears of alimony due the plaintiff from the
proceeds of the sale, and -further ordering that the receiver should hold
the balance subject to the-order of the court as to alimony subsequently to
accrue, is not a.final decree from which an appeal can be taken, inasmuch
as there still remains to be determined what personal property had been
parted with, and what was its value and the amount of the proceeds to be
accounted for.

AMANDA TWELL brought her action in equity in the District
Court, Second Judicial District,' Deer Lodge County, Mf(ontana
Territory, against-Richard Twell,Joseph Lodge and Samuel
Beaumont, to set aside certain transfers of property by Twell
to Lodge and Beaumont, on the ground that they were made
with intent to defraud the appellee in the matter of alimony,
awarded her by a decree of divorce, and to have the property
applied to the payment of such alimony.. The divorce decree
was entered December 11, 1883, and adjudged that defendant
Twell pay to complainant, during her natural life or until further order of the court, the sum of $50 per month, and that he
,ive security therefor.
The bill averred that defendant Twell had failed to obey
said decree in that he had not paid the monthly instalments
for alimony and had failed to' give the required security; that
he bad departed from the Territory without making any provision for the payment, and leaving unpaid the sum of $150;
that on December 22, 1883, being the owner of real estate
situiated in Deer Lodge County of the value of $1200 and of

LODGE v. TWELI.
Statement of 'the Case.

personal property worth $5000, to avoid the process of the
court for the enforcement of said decree, he made a pretended
sale and assignment of his property to the defendants Lodge
and Beaumont; and that said sale and assignment were fraudulent and void, and were intended and made for the purpose
of delaying and hindering and defrauding the plaintiff, to the
knowledge of defendants Lodge and Beaumont, who made the
purchase to enable Twell to so defraud the plaintiff of her
rights. The bill also alleged that said Twell had no other
property within the jurisdiction of the court, and prayed that
the sale and assignment be declared- fraudulent and void as
against the plaintiff; that a receiver be appointed ; that Lodge
and Beaumont be required to account for all the property
received by them, with the rents, issues and profits, and -all
proceeds arising from sales thereof; that the defendants be
enjoined from disposing of any of said property or its proceeds; and that the receiver be directed to sell the property,
and pay the $150 then due and whatever sum maight be due
at the time of the sale, holding the balance subject to the
order of the court to pay on the aforesaid decree. A decree
by default Was entered against the defendant Twell. Lodge
and Beaumont demurred, which demurrer was overruled and
the defendants excepted. They also filed their separate answer denying the allegations of the bill touching fraud. The
cause came on for trial on the 6th of December, 1884, and the
defendants, Lodge and Beaumont, by leave of court amended
their answer, and dehied "that the value of the property sold
or assigned to these defendants, Lodge and Beaumont, as
specified in complainant's complaint, was, at the time of the"
purchase thereof, of the value of six thousand two hundred
dollars, or any greater value than about three thousand five
hundred dollars." This amendment was verified by Lodge
and Beaumont.
The trial court found that the sale was fraudulent and void,
and made with intent to hinder, delay and defraud the plaintiff, and that plaintiff was entitled to the relief asked for in
her complaint, and, among other facts, "that the property
sold by defendant Twell to defendants Lodge and Beaumont

OCTOBER TERM,- 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

was, at the time of said sale, of the value of at least $4200,
and that defendants Lodge and Beaumont have realized from
the personal property sold, since said sale, the sum of about
twenty-five hundred dollars, and still have all the real estate
and personal property, of the value of at least $600, in their
hands."
The defendants Lodge and Beaumont moved "the
court for judgment, notwithstanding the findings, which motion was overruled and the defendants excepted. A decree
was then entered in favor of the plaintiff, setting aside the
sale and assignment by Twell to Lodge and Beaumont, and
appointing a receiver of the property and effects of Twell,
which he had at the time of the- entry of said decree of
divorce, and sold and conveyed to Lodge and Beaumont on or
about December 22, 1883, which property was described as
consisting at that date of personalty of the value of at least
$4200, and real estate of the value of $600; and it was further
decreed that Lodge and Beaumont account for all property
received by them or either of them under either the sale or
assignment above mentioned, and for all proceeds arising from
any sale or sales thereof, and for the rents, issues and profits
thereof; that they deliver possession of the same to the
receiver; that the receiver sell the property delivered; and
that out of the proceeds he pay the costs and expenses of the
sale and receivership, and all sums due by defendant Twell to
the plaintiff under and by virtue of the decree of divorce, and
hold the balance of the proceeds of such. sales, -subject to the
order of the court in the above-mentioned decree of divorcebetween plaintiff and defendant Twell, and for costs. From
this decree Lodge and Beaumont appealed to the Supreme
Court of the Territory, which affirmed the judgment, and they
then appealed to this court, which appeal was allowed February 25, 1886, and an appeal bond then given and approved.
An affidavit of value was filed as stated in the opinion.
Mr. S. S. Burdet for appellants..
fr. ,James 1. Bownson, Jr., for appellee.
MR.

court.

CmEv

JusTicE

FuLLER delivered the opinion of the

DODGE v. TWELL.
Opinion of the Court.

It will be perceived that the decree did not identify the
particular property to be delivered nor specify the amount of
money to be paid or collected. The court had found that
Lodge and Beaumont had sold part of the original property
and realized therefrom about twenty-five hundred dollars, but
the exact amount was not determined by the decree, nor the
amount of the rents, issues and profits received by them, nor
that Lodge and Beaumont, while directed to account for the
property, should respond, as. of the date of the invalidated
sale, for the value of so much as they had disposed of, or for
the -proceeds only. The receiver was directed to sell the property delivered to him, but what that property would be necessarily could not appear, until what had been sold by Lodge
and Beaumont had been ascertained. Until these matters
were adjusted, and the account taken, it was impossible to
tell for what amount an order of payment or a money decree
should go against the defendants Lodge and Beaumont, after
the delivery of the property they had on hand to the receiver.
What was left to be done was something more than the mere
ministerial execution of the decree as rendered. The decree was
interlocutory, and not final, even though it settled the equities
of the bill. Craigh4ead v. WBilson, 18 low. 199; Young v.
Smith, 15 Pet. 287; Keystone I-ron Co. v. -Martin,13 U. S. 91.
In Railroad Co. v. Swasey, 23 Wall. 405, 409, Mr. Chief Justice Chase, in passing upon a decree 'of foreclosure and sale,
observed that an appeal may be taken from such a decree.
"when the rights 6f the parties have all been settled and
nothing remains to be done by the court but to make the sale
and pay out the proceeds. This has long been settled. The
sale in such a case is the execution of the decree. By means
of it 'the rights of the parties, as settled, are enforced. But to
justify such a sale, without consent, the amount due upon the"
debt must be determined and the property to be sold ascertained and defined. Until this is done the rights of the parties
are not all settled. Final process for the collection of money
cannot issue until the amount to be paid or collected by the
process, if not paid, has been adjudged. So, too, process for
the sale of specific property cannot issue until the property to

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

be sold has been judicially identified. Such adjudications
require the action of the court." "The authorities are uniiform," said -Mr. Chief Justice Waite, in .Dainese v. Eendall,
119 U. S. 53, 54, "to the effect that, a decree to be final for
the purposes of an appeal must leave the case in such a condition that if there be an affirmance here, the court below will
have nothing to do but to execute the decree it has already
entered."
Upon applying for the allowance of an appeal to this court,
Lodge and Beaumont made affidavit that by the judgment
and decree of the District Court, it had been found that the
personal property sold to them by Twell was of the value of
forty-two hundred dollars, and that the real estate was of the
value of six hundred dollars, and they stated in effect that
they had received, up to the rendition of the judgment of the
Supreme Court, rents and profits sufficient, if added to those
sums, to make an aggregate in excess of $5000. But, as we
have seen, the decree referred to the value of the property as
of the date of the alleged sale and assignment, and did not in
terms require Lodge and Beaumont to account at that value,
so that until the entry of another decree it would remain
problematical whether the money which might thereby be
decreed to be paid and the value of the property recovered in
specie together, would be equal to the amount necessary to
give us jurisdiction.
Taking this decree as a whole, we are satisfied that the
appeal from the judgment affirming it will not lie, and it is
accordingly

Dh8mi8ed.

