THE EOLIPSE.
Statement of the Case.

THE STEAMNER ECLIPSE, BRAITHWAITE,
Claimant.'
APEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERMTORY OF DAKOTA.
No. 310. Argued April 29,1890.-

Decided May 19,1890.

A court of admiralty has no equity power to wind up a trust concerning a
licensed vessel, or to enforce an alleged contract of sale of it.
When an intervener in an admiralty suit in ren seeks a remedy concerning
the vessel which is not maritime in its nature, the court is without jurisdiction over his claim, and the intervention should be dismissed.
A power was given to sell a vessel then lying in a dangerous position locked
up in ice, in care of the master, who was part owner, for a specified sum:
Held, to have been executed with reference to the then condition of the
vessel, and not to apply to a sale purporting to be made under it after
it had been brought by the master to a port of safety, and not to warrant
a conditional sale after extrication, dependent upol the amount of damage which it might be found to have suffered.
A vessel was conveyed to two trustees, one of whom was the master, in
equal shares, to hold as trustees for the benefit of all the owners, cestuis
que trust. Held, that the master was half-owner of the legal title, and
could not be removed under Rev. Stat. ยง 4250 on the application of cestuis
que trust, claiming to be a majority of the equitable owners.

Robinson, Rea & Co., Kay, Y,cKnight & Co., A. W. Cadman & Co., and Joseph MeC. Biggert filed their libel in admiralty in the District Court of the Third Judicial District
of the territory of Dakota, April 7, 1881, against the steamboat Eclipse, her tackle, apparel and furniture, and against all
persons intervening for their interest therein, in a cause of
possession, civil and maritime, alleging:
"First. That they are the majority of the owners of the
steamboat Eclipse, her tackle, apparel and furniture; and,
1

The docket title of this case is William Ra and. Geo. F. Robinson, Copartners as Robinsof, Rea & Co.; 3. C. Kay and Woodruff McKnight, Copartners as Kay, McKnight & Co.; A. W. Cadman and
Cadman,
Copartners as A. W. Cadman & Co.; Joseph McC. Biggert; and Joseph
Leighton and Walter B. Jordan, Copartners as Leighton & Jordan, Apjpel
lants v. The Steamer ,, Eclipse," William Braithwaite, Claimant.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

being such owners, on or about the 10th day of March, 1881,
appointed one William Braithwaite master of said vessel, to
navigate and sail her for them, at the wages agreed upon
between him and the said owners, and the said William
Braithwaite continued to be such master until the 4th day of
April, 1881, when the libellants removed him as master and
appointed another as master in his place.
"Second. That when the new master so appointed by libellants went on board said vessel by their orders, to enter upon his
duties as such master, the said William Braithwaite refused to
give up the possession or the papers of said vessel to the said
master or to the libellants, who have demanded the same, to
the great damage of the libellants."
Process was prayed against the vessel and Braithwaite, and
was issued accordingly, returnable on the first Tuesday of
June then next.
On the 15th of April, 1881, Braithwaite intervened as a
claimant of the boat as "trustee one of the owners, and
master," averring that he was "managing owner and master
of said steamer, and is entitled to the possession and command
thereof, and that no other persoh is entitled to the possession
or command thereof."
The-libel was amended by stating that "the said Robinson,
Rea &.Co. owns a twenty-five, hundred-dollar interest in said
steamboat; the said Kay, McKnight & Co., four hundred and
fifty dollars' interest in said steamboat; the said Joseph McC.
Biggert, a twenty-five hundred-dollar interest in said steamboat; the said A. W. Cadman & C6., a one hundred-dollar
interest in said steamboat; that the only other person having
an interest in said steamboat is Win. Braithwaite, who owns
ar twenty-five hundred-dollar interest in said steamboat."
Braithwaite filed an answer and exceptions on the 6th of
May.
On the 4th of June the' marshal returned that he had
attached the boat under the process on the day it was issued,
and that on the same day one Joseph Leighton put in a claim
to the boat, and with the consent of the libellants, and upon
Leighton's executing a stipulation of the value of $12,000, that

THE ECLIPSE.
Statement of the Case.

being the amount agreed upon between him and libellants, he
had delivered the boat to Leighton. On the 25th of May,
1881, Leighton and Jordan filed their claim in intervention, as
purchasers under a bill of sale, bearing date :March 31, 1881,
and prayed for a decree directing Braithwaite to execute a
bill of sale of the Eclipse, and to deliver it and the papers of
the steamboat to them, and on his refusal that all his interest
in the boat be transferred to them, and for costs, and such
other relief as a court of admiralty.is competent to give.
The cause was heard upon the pleadings and proofs, and the
District Court made its findings of fact and conclusion of law
as follows:
"First. That the steamer Eclipse at the time of the commencement of this action was within the Third Judicial District of Dakota Territory.
"Second. That on February 4th, 1880, the claimant, William
Braithwaite, and libellants, with the exception of Joseph McC.
Biggert, made and entered into an agreement in writing as
set forth in the fourth allegation in claimant's answer.
"Third. That subsequent to the execution of that agreement by the claimant a further clause was added substituting
the name of Joseph IMcC. Biggert for that of John D. Biggert,
which was signed by all parties to the agreement except the
claimant.
"Fourth. That subsequent to the execution of the agreement the parties paid in eight thousand and fifty dollars and
no more, in amounts as follows:
Capt. W. Braithwaite ................
John D. Biggert. . ......
Robinson, Rea & Co.. ... . ......
Cadman & Co. . ..
...........
Kay, McKnight & Co .........

......

......

$2500
2500
2500
100
450

00
00
00
00
00

"Fifth. That in pursuance of that agreement the claimant
went from Pittsburgh, Pa., to Bismarck, D. T., in February,
1880, to be present when the said steamer E6ipse should be
offered for sale by the U. S. marshal, and on the 18th day of

OCTOBER TERM, 1889,
Statement of the Case.

February, 1880, the United States marshal sold said steamer
at public auction at the port of Bismarck, and claimant bid
her in under and in pursuance of the agreement between him
and libellants for the sum of eight thousand five hundred and
twenty-five dollars.
"Sixth. That claimant used in purchasing said steamer all
of the money paid in by the parties to said agreement, viz.,
eight thousand and fifty dollars, and raised the balance of the
purchase price, viz., four hundred and seventy-five dollars, on
the credit of the said steamer, which was afterwards paid out
of her earnings.
"Seventh. That the claimant, Win. Braithwaite, and John
D. Biggert, negotiated the purchase, and the marshal made the
bill of sale to the claimant and John D. Biggert, as trustees.
"Eighth. That the claimant, William .Braithwaite, took
possession of said steamer Eclipse, as master, under and in
pursuance of the said written agreement between him and
libellants, and so continued in possession as master under said
written agreement until he was removed by the United States
marshal, by virtue of the writ issued in this case.
"Ninth. That immediately after the United States marshal
took possession of the said steamer he removed the claimant
and delivered the possession of the same to interveners, without any order to do so from this court.
"Tenth. That said steamer-was run by claimant during the
navigation season of 1880 under said written agreement and
earned eight thousand dollars, which went into the hands of
the financial agent under said agreement, and the same has
not been apportioned or distributed.
"Eleventh. That on February 2d, 1881, libellants and
claimant signed 'Exhibit A' of the intervention and petition
of Joseph Leighton and Walter B. Jordan. At'that time said
steamer was lying .in the Missouri River, a little below Fort
Benton.
"Twelfth. That the committee named in said exhibit made
a conditional agreement 'with Charles Batchelor, agent for
Joseph Leighton, to sell said steamer for eleven thousand five
hundred dollars, if she should not be damaged to exceed five
hundred dollars.

THE ECLIPSE.
Statement of the Case.

"Thirteenth. That on April 1st, 1881, a bill of sale was
made for said steamer by libellants transferring her to interveners, but was not delivered, and the interveners had not
paid any money thereon, and the claimant never signed said
bill of sale, but refused to sign the same, and notified interveners and the committee that his interest in said steamer
was not for sale, before any part of the purchase-money had
been paid by the interveners, amounting to $2500.00, before
the commencement of this-action, -- was paid after they were

notified that the claimant would not sell his interest in said
steamer.
"Fourteenth. That the interveners are not the sole owners
of the said steamer, but the claimant, William Braithwaite,
was at the time of the commencement of this action the
owner of one-half interest therein, and part owner under and
by virtue of the written agreement made with libellants.
"Fifteenth. That at the time of the commencement of this
action libellauts were not the owners of a majority interest in
said steamer.
"1Sixteenth. That there was due to the claimant, under the
written agreement with the libellants, the sum of eight hundred dollars for wages at the time of the commencement of
this action, and that no money whatever has been paid or
tendered to him by any of the parties to this action.
"As a conclusioi of law I find "1st. That the claimant, Wi. Braithwaite, is entitled to
the possession of the steamer Eclipse."
The agreement referred to in the second finding is as follows:
"Articles of agreement made and concluded the 4th day
of February, in the year of our Lord eighteen hundred and
eighty, between W. Braith~aite and John D. Biggert, parties
of the first part, and Robinson, Rea & Co., Kay, McKnight
& Co., and Cadman & Co., of the city of Pittsburgh, 6ounty
of Allegheny, State of Pennsylvania, parties of the second
part, witnesseth: That whereas the steamboat 'E clipse' is
now hopelessly involved in debt, and the said parties of the
second part being creditors of said steamboat, and the said

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

steamboat is about to be forced to marshal's sale, it being a
well known hnd recognized fact the owners of said boat are
unable to meet the indebtedness and prevent such sale, the
parties hereto, fearing a sacrifice, to protect their several interests, prevent such a sacrifice, and form a' fund for bidding up
(in) said boat, and afterwards, if knocked down to them, to
provide a working capital to manage and run said steamboat,
covenant and agree as follows:
"First. That each of said parties shall contribute into a
general fund the respective amounts set opposite their names,
viz:
Capt. W. Braithwaite
John D. Biggert ......
Robinson, Rea & Co.....
Cadman & Co.......
Kay, McKnight & Co ......

..............
.............
..............
.............

.$2500
2500
.2500
. 100
450

"Which several amounts are to be paid in cash by the
respective parties to said parties of the first part in base said
steamboat is purchased by them as herein provided, so much
thereof as may be necessary to be used for paying such of the
bid as may be necessary to be paid in cash and the remainder
to be.used as working capital.
"Second. That in addition to said cash fun& the. second
parties are to contribute as capital the amounts of their respective claims against said steamboat, and in case said steamboat
is bought by the parties hereto their claims are not to be paid
at once, but to be receipted for by them and afterwards paid
.as hereinafter provided for.
"Third. When said steamboat is put up at marshal's sale
the same is to be bid by said parties of the first part to such
an amount as a majority in interest of said amount, $10,000.00,
may determine, and be put in the name of W. Braithwaite
and John D. Biggert, as trustees, and be held by them thereafter as such trustees for the following uses and purposes:
First, that the same be managed and run in the interest
of all the parties hereto, said William Braithwaite to act

THE EOLIPSE.
Counsel for Parties.

as captain And John D. Biggert as financial agent; the said
Braithwaite to receive a salary of $150 per month and said
John D. Biggert to receive a salary of $100 per month during
the time she is so run in the interest of the parties hereto.
"Fourth. Out of the earnings of said steamboat the respective claims of the said parties of the second part are first to
be paid, and, secondly, the full amount of their respective portions of said $10,000 advancement is to be paid, and when
said parties of the second part are fully paid then this trust
shall cease and determine, and the said steamboat shall remain
wholly to the use and benefit of the said Win. Braithwaite
and J. D. Biggert, their executors, administrators and assigns."
Exhibit "A," referred to in the eleventh finding, is as
follows:
"PMseGn, PENN., February2d, 1881.
"We, the undersigned creditors and trustees of the steamer
Eclipse, hereby appoint William Rea, John. D. Biggert, and
.J. 0. Kay our committee to effect sale of said steamer, granting unto them or a majority of them power to accept any
offer which they may receive for the purchase of the steamer,
it being expressly understood that they shall not accept any
offer of less than eleven thousand five hundred dollars cash or
equivalent in approved paper."
Thereupon judgment was rendered dismissing the libel, and
also the intervening petition, with costs to be taxed against
the libellants and interveners, respectively, and ordering the
marshal to deliver the possession of the steamboat Eclipse,
her tackle, apparel and furniture, to the claimant, William
Braithwaite.
This judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the
Territory, and the cause brought to this court by appeal.
Mr. TV. Hallett Phillips and Mr. George IF. Guthrie for
plaintiffs in error.

Mr. J. G. Bigelow for Braithwaite, claimant.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. CmEF JvsTicE FULLER, after stating the case as above
reported, delivered the opinion of the court.
Circuit Courts, in deciding causes of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction on the instance side of the court, are required to find the facts and the conclusions of law upon which
their judgments and decrees are rendered, stating them separately; and we are limited, in reviewing such judgments'and
decrees, to a determination of the questions of law arising
upon the record, and to such rulings of the court, excepted to
at the time, as may be presented by a bill of exceptions, prepared as in actions at law. 18 Stat. 315; The Gazelle, 128
U. S. 474, 484. And this judgment of the Supreme Court of
Dakota Territory is subject to review in the same manner
and under the same regulations. Rev. Stat. ยง 702.
By the purchase of the steamer on the 18th of February,
1880, under the agreement dated th6 fourth day of that month,
Praithwaite and. Biggert acquired the legal title to be held in
trust for the payment to the "parties of the second part,"
Cadman & Co., Robinson, Rea & Co., and Kay, McKnight &
Co., of their claims as creditors and their advances to assist
Braithwaite and Biggert to make the purchase.
When this was accomplished, Braithwaite and Biggert were
to remain equal owners of the boat freed from the encumbrance.
Joseph McC. Biggert seems to have been substituted for John
D. Biggert, but as our conclusion is reached without regard
to that circumstance, they will be treated as one. The agreement provided that the steamer was to be commanded by
Braithwaite, and she was accordingly run by him during the
navigation season of 1880, and earned eight thousand dollars,
which went into the hands of Biggert, who was financial
agent under the agreement, but this money had not been apportioned and distributed when the libel was filed.
On the 2d of February, 1881, Braithwaite and Biggert, the
trustees, and Robinson, Rea & Co., Cadman & Co. and Kay,
MtcKnight & Co., the creditors, by a written meniorandum
signed at Pittsburgh, appointed Rea, Biggert and Kay a committee to effect the sale of the steamer, with power to accept

THE ECLIPSE.
Opinion of the Court.

any offer of not less than eleven thousand five hundred dollars
cash, or the equivalent in approved paper. At this time the
steamer was lying in the Missouri River, a little below Fort
Benton; but it appears from the interveners' petition, that
on or about April 1 she had been released from the ice in
which she had wintered, and been brought down to Bismarck
by her master, Braithwaite. The court found that the committee made a conditional agreement with Leighton's agent
to sell the steamer for eleven thousand five hundred dollars,
if she should not be damaged to exceed five hundred dollars;
that a bill of sale was made by libellants April 1, 1881, transferring the boat to the interveners, but it was not delivered
or any money paid thereon; that Braithwaite refused to sign
it and notified the interveners and the committee that his
interest was not for sale, after which the interveners paid the
sum of two thousand five hundred dollars; that Braithwaite
was the owner of one-half interest in the steamer when the.
action was commenced; and that eight hundred dollars was
due to him for wages under the written agreement with the
libellants, no part of which had been paid or tendered to him
by any of the parties.
The memorandum of February 2d was obviously entered
into in view of the situation, of the Eclipse as she lay locked
up if the ice just below Fort Benton, and not as she was when
safe in the port of Bismarck, and the authority vested in the
cominittee to effect a sale was limited to the acceptance of an
offer of not less than a certain -amount in cash or its equivalent. A contract for a sale conditioned on how much the
vessel might turn out to have been damaged by her environment and extrication therefrom was not within the poker
conferred, which contemplated only a sale for a sum certain at
the risk of the buyer, and did not embrace an executory coiltract dependent on a contingency. We are of opinion, upon
the facts found, that nothing had been done which operated to
divest the legal title, and that when the libel was filed that
title was in Braithwaite and Biggert, and the interest of the
interveners and of Biggert's co-libellants was equitable merely.
Braithwaite was the legal owner of one-half and was the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

master in possession. Of that possession he could not be deprived on the ground set up in the libel, that the libellants
were a majority of the owners, for such was not the fact; and,
moreover, he -wasnot only part owner and master, but by the
written agreement, which was still subsisting, was entitled to
such possession as master, and therefore not liable to removal
under section 4250 of the Revised Statutes, which provides
that "any person or body corporate having more than onehalf ownership of any vessel shall have the same power to
remove a master, who is also part owner of such vessel, as
such majority owners have to remove a master not an owner,"
but that the section shall not apply "where there is a valid
written agreement subsisting, by virtue of which such master
would be entitled to possession."
So far as the creditors and interveners were concerned, if
the former desired to wind up the trust, or the latter to
enforce an alleged contract of sale, which is indeed what is
aisked by this intervention, they should have resorted to a different tribunal. While the court of admiralty exercises its jurisdiction upon equitable principles, it has not the characteristic
powers of a court of equity. It cannot entertain a bill or libel
for specific performance, or to correct a mistake, Andrews v.
Essex Ins. Co., 3 Mason, 6, 16; or declare or enforce a trust
or an equitable title, WYard v. Thompson, 22 How. 330; Te
Amelia, 6 Ben. 475; Kellum v. Emerson, 2 Curtis, 79; or
exercise jurisdiction in matters of account merely, Grant v.
Poillon, 20 How; 162; Xlinturn v. Maynard, 17 How. 477;
The Ocean Belle, 6 Ben. 253; or decree the sale of a ship for
an unpaid mortgage, or leclare her to be the property of the
mortgagees and direct possession of her to be given to them.
Boga't, v. The John Jay, 17 How. 399. The jurisdiction
embraces all maritime contracts, torts, injuries or offences,
and it depends, in cases of contract, upon the nature of the
contract, and is limited to contracts, claims and, services
purely maritime, and touching rights and duties appertaining
to commerce and navigation. People's Ferry Co. v. Beers,
20 How. 393, 401. There was nothing maritime about the
claims of the interveners, and the interviention was properly
dismissed for want of jurisdiction over the subject matter.

FARRAR v. CHURCHILL.
Counsel for Parties.

The opinion of the Supreme Court of Dakota by Church, J.,
will be found reported in 30 IN. W. Rep. 159, and deals with
the facts in more detail than we have been at liberty to do.
We agree with the results arrived at by that court and its
judgment is therefore
.Armed.

FARRAR v. CHURCHILL.
CHURCHILL v. FARRAR.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF MISSISSIPPI.
NoS. 266, 603. Argued April 16, 1890.

Decded May 19, 1890.

Cross-appeals in equity must be prosecuted like other appeals; and although
they may be taken and allowed after removal of the cause, on appeal, to
this court, yet that cannot be done after the lapse of two years from the
date of the decree.
The court takes notice of the facts that in this case no assignment of errors
was annexed to the transcript of the record as required by law, and that
no specification of errors was made in the brief of .counsel, as required
by the rule, and expresses the hope that there will be no recurrence of
such omissions.
If a purchaser of real estate, to whom representations of the character and
value of the property are made by the vendor, visits the property itself
prior to the sale, and makes a personal examination of it touching those
representations, he will be presumed to rely on his own examination, in
making the purchase, and not upon the representations of the vendor
and in the absence of fraud or concealment, cannot have the sale set
aside: applying this rule to the present case, the bill must be dismissed.

IN EQUITY.

Decrees dismissing the bill and the cross-bill.

Each party appealed.

The case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Alexander Pope Humphrey (with whom was .Mr. George
X. -Davieon the brief) for Farrar, administrator.
-Mr. iV.Hallett Pxillips on behalf of Churchill submitted a
motion to dismiss the cross-appeal on his brief. .Mr. IF.Hallett Phillipson behalf of Mr. William L. -Nugent for Churchill
and another, on the merits submitted on Mr. Nugent's brief.
VOL. CXXXV-39

