HARTRANFT v. MEYER.
Opinion of the Court.

RARTRAX-FT v. -MEYER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 148. Argued April 18, 1890.-Decided April23,1890.

Cloth composed partly of silk, partly of co tton and partly of wool, silk
being the component material of chief value, and the proportion In
value of wool being less than twenty-five per cent, is dutiable as a nonenumerated article under Schedule L, ยง 2502 of the Revised Statutes as,
amended by the act of Mfarch 3, 1883, 22 Stat. 510; and'not as a similar
article under Schedule K in that section, 22 Stat. 508.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Assistant Attorney GeneralMa3ury for plaintiff in error.
.r. Frank P. Prichardfor:defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER

delivered the opinion of the court.

In 1885 Meyer & Dickinson were merchants in the city of
Philadelphia, and John F. Rartranft was collector of customs
for that district. They imported various lots of matelass6
cloth. This cloth was compbsed partly of silk, partly of cot
ton and partly of wool, silk being the component material of
chief value, and the proportion in -value of wool being less
than twenty-five per cent. The question presented in this
case is, whether the goods were dutiable under Schedule "K"
or Schedule "L," section 2502, of the act of March 3, 1883, 22
Stat. 508.and 510.
Schedule "K," which. is entitled "Wool and- Woolens," imposes a certain rate of duty upon "woollen cloths, woollen.
shawls and all manufactures of wool of every description,
made wholly or in part of wool, not specially enumerated or
provided for in this act." Schedule "L," entitled "Silk and
Silk Goods," imposes a different duty on :Mall goods, wares
and merchandise, not specially enumerated or provided for in

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

this act, made of silk, or of which silk is the component material of chief value." If either schedule stood alone in the
statutes, obviously the goods would be dutiable under that
schedule, for they were made in part of wool as described in
Schedule "K," and they were goods of which silk is the component material of chief value, as desc'ibed in Schedule "L."
Both schedules being found in the same statute, we must deduce
from them, taken in connection with other provisions, the intent of Congress in reference to goods of this description; for
it cannot be assumed that Congress intended two rates for the
same goods, to be selected at the pleasure-of either the collector
or the importer. In each schedule are found the words "not
specially enumerated or provided for in this act," so that
neither description is absolute or exclusive. We place no
stress on the' position of the two schedules in the act, or on
the fact that Schedule "L," coming after Schedule "K," expresses the later thought and purpose of Congress; but we
turn rather to the character of the descriptive language used
in the one, it being more general than in the other. In
Schedule "K" it is "made wholly or in part of wool," thereby
meaching to all manufactured articles of which any portion is
wool, while in Schedule "L" it is narrower and more limited,
- " made of silk, or of which silk is the component material
of chief value." This is a special enumeration rather than the
other.. This idea was presented in Solomon v. Athur, 102
U. S. 208, 212, in which the descriptions compared were these:
"Manufactures composed of mixed materials, in part of cotton,
silk," etc., and "manufactures of which silk is the component
part of chief value." Both expressions were held to be merely
descriptive, and the true interpretation to be given to them
was thus clearly stated by Mr. Justice Bradley in the opinion
of the court: "It is observable that the description of ' manufactures made of mixed materials, in part of cotton, silk,' etc.,
is- more general than that of 'manufactures of which silk is
,the component part of chief value.' Logically, the two phrases
standing together in the same act or system of. laws would be.
related as follows: 'Goods made of mixed r tterials, cotton,
silk, etc, shall-pay a duty 9f thirty-five per c .nt; but ifsilk is

HARTRANTT v). MEYER,
Opinion of the Court.

the component part of chief value,. they shall pay a duty of
fifty per cent.' 1Applying the same rule of construction here,
the circuit judge, in deciding this case, and holding that the
goods were dutiable under Schedule "]-," .Meyer v. Hartrnft,
28 Fed. Rep. 358, well said that the statute was in substance
to be read thus: "All manufactures ot wool of every description, not especially enumerated .or provided for in this act,
shall be subject to a duty of thirty-five cents per pound and
thirty-five per centum ad valorem; .but if silk is the compon'ent material of chief value, they shall be subject to a duty of
fifty per cent ad valorem." -We think this construction harmonizes the two sections better than any-other, and gives
force to the intent of Congress.
Another matter is also worthy of notice, and that is the
changemade in section 24:99 of the Revised Statutes by the
act of 1883. In the Revised Statutes the section contained
this provision: "And on all articles manufactured from two
or more materials, the duty sball be assessed at the highest
rates at which any of its component parts may be chargeable;"
while in the act of 1883 the provision is changed so as to read:
"And on all articles manufactured from two or more materials,
the duty shall be assessed at the highest rates at which the
component material of chief value may be chargeable." It is
true that this section, at least in its main provisions, refers
solely to non-enumerated articles, and these goods must be
considered as enumerated. -Arthur's Executors v. Butterfild,
125 U. S. 70. And yet, though this clause may apply solely
to non-enumerated articles, it shows the intent of Congress in
reference to a question of the kind presented. .Instead of
making the duty depend on the highest rate at which any
component part is chargeable, it is made to depend on the
highest rate at which the component material of chief value
is chargeable. Applying that idea here, the rate would
be that chargeable under Schedule "L," for silk, as appears
from the findings, was the component material of chief valuq.
The judgment of the Circuit Court was correct, and it is

Afl meZ.

