OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Counsel. for Parties.

'in the case of Burgess v. Seligman, 107 U. S. 20. Where such
lobal law or custom has been established by repeated decisions
of the highest courts of a State, it becomes also the law governing the courts of the United States sitting in that State."
Nothing more need be added to express the views of this
co-irt on the question here presented. The judgment of the
Circuit Court must be
" Revdrsed and the case remanded,with instruction8 to su8tam the demurrer to the amended declaration.

NORMAN v. BUCKNER.
APPEAL F)ROX THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 275. Argued April 16, 17, 1890.- Decided May 19, 1890.

In Louisiana, *here the heirs of. an intestate may take the property and pay
the debts, such an heir cannot, after taking a.part of the property, hold
the administrator and his sureties responsible for loss in respect to it
resulting subsequently thereto; and this rule is not affected by the fact
that the administrator,. in his individual capacity, afterwards obtained
title to and possession of the property thus removed from his custody.
The proceedings attacked in this case were conducted in good faith, and
without fraud or collusion.
The.fapts that the same person was administrator of one estate, and executor of another, and that the testate and the intestate were partnerg in
business, do not affect the right of the creditor of the intestate to have
his separate estate applied to the payment of his individual debts, and
do not.make the sureties on the administrator's bond answerable for
waste committed by the executor.
THE case is stated in the opinion.

.Mr.; Wade R. Young for appellants.
Mfr. C. J. J. S. Boatner for Montgomery, appellee.
.f. Jolin T. Ludeling, for Buckner, appellee, submitted on
his brief.

NORMA.N v. BUCKNER.
Opinion of the Court.

M.m. JusTicE

BREWER

delivered the opilion of the court,

This is an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Western District of Louisiana, dismissing the
bill filed by appellants, complainants below. The facts are
these:
Complainants are the heirs at law of W. D. King, who diea
intestate in the State of L6uisiana, September 5, 1877. Upon
his death and on October 6, 1877, Ben. E. Hall was appointed.
administrator, and qualified with the defendaits and Leonora,
E. Hall as sureties on his bond: Leonora E. Hall, the surety,
was the wife of Ben. E. Hall, the administrator. At the
time of his death, King owned an undivided one-half .of the
"Mounds" plantation, with the personal property attached
thereto, and also several hundred acres of wild and overflow
lands. Mrs. Hall was the owner of the other undivided half
of the Mounds plantation; and she and King were partners
in carrying on the plantation, and running a store thereon.
On February 19,. 1878, the complainants, as heirs of King, sold
and transferred to Mrs. Hall the decedent's undivided half of
the Mounds plantation, with all the personal property belonging thereto, for the consideration of five thousand dollars and
the agreement of the purchaser to pay all the debts of the'
estate. If Mrs. Hall had carried out her agreement, and paid
the debts of the estate, the complainants would have received
the overflow lands free from all incumbrances. For the five
thousand dollars Mrs. Hall gave two notes, one of two thou.
sand and the other of three thousand dollars, due respectively
January 1, 1880, and January 1, 1881, and secured by mort-,
gage on the Mounds plantation. This mortgage was subordinate to a prior mortgage to Aivey & Co., for $17,504.49.
Complainants subsequently sold these notes to one of the de-,
fendants, John A. Buckner. On September 2, 1879, Mrs. Hall
died, leaving a will, giving all her property in Louisiana to
her husband, and appointing him -her executor. He qualified.
as such, and gave bond as required by the order of the court..
On March 30, 1880, Aivey & Co. commenced suit to foreclose
their mortgage; and on .November 20, 1880, Buckner, pur

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

chaser from complainants of their notes and mortgage, also
commenced suit to foreclose. Under the first suit the Mounds
plantation was offered for sale on June 19,1880. At that sale,
after some competition, a bid from a reliable person, of thirty
thousand dollars, was made. Thereafter, Ben. E. Hall bid
thirty-one thousand dollars, and the property was struck off
to him. He failed to make good his bid, and the sale was
thereupon adjourned; and, subsequently, stayed by injunction
Proceedings. After those injunction proceedings had been
got out of the way, and on June 21, 1884, the property was
again offered for sale, and sold to Buckner for twenty-two
thousand dollars, an amount not sufficient to discharge the
mortgage claims. Pending these proceedings, and on December 11, 1880, Hall, the administrator of King, filed a petition
for the sale of the overflow lands, in order to pay debts of the
estate. An order for sale was made on this petition, and'on
February 5, 1881, the property was sold. At the instance of
complainants this sale was set aside - they being compelled to
advance $1200 to reimburse the purchasers. Thereafter, and
on November 16, 1883, another order for sale, on a similar
petition, was made, and the property sold to one Isadore Newman, for the sum of $1677.74. The value of this overflow
land is alleged by complainants to have been $10,000; and
the prayer of the bill is for a recovery against the defendants,
the sureties on the administrator's bond, of the sum of $11,200
- being $10,000 as the value of the overflow land and $1200
advanced by complainants on account of the first sale; and
failing that, a decree setting aside the, sale of the undivided
one-half of the Mounds plantation made by them to Mrs. Hall,
and requiring the purchaser, John A. Buckner, to return said
property to them, with the rents, issues and profits during the
time of its possession by him.
' The bill has thus a double aspect. The alternative reliefs
prayed for are essentially different, one being of an equitable
and the other of a legal nature. We will consider that of an
equitable nature first.
The prayer of the complainants is, that the contract of sale
between them and Mrs. Hall be set aside; and that John A.

WNO

N v. BUCNER.

503.

Opinion of the Court.

Buckner be decreed to return the undivided one-half of the
Mounds plantation, which they had sold to Mrs..Hall, and
which he had subsequently purchased at mortgage sate.
But there is nothing in the record which would justify such
relief. Under the laws of Louisiana, the heirs of an intestate
may take the property and pay the debts. In pursuance of
this right, complainants, the heirs of the intestate King, withdrew the Mounds plantation from the possession of the administrator and sold it. By that act the responsibility of the
administrator and the sureties on his bond, as to that property,
ceased. The heirs cannot take property from the custody of
an administrator, and then hold him or his sureties liable fof
loss in respect to such property resulting subsequently thereto.
Dispossessing him, they relieve both him and his sureties
from further responsibility; and this release is in no manner
abridged by the fact that the administrator'May thereafter, in
his individual or in some other representative capacity, obtain
the title or possession of the property thus removed from his
custody as administrator. The guaranty of an administrator's
bond is not against general wrong-doing on the part of the
administrator, but simply against his misconduct while in
charge of the property of the estate. When that property
passes out of his custody, his liability and that of his suretieq
cease. So when these complainants withdrew the Mounds
plantation from the custody of the administrator and sold it
on their own account to Mrs. Hall, they released the sureties
on his bond from any further liability in respect to it. Neither the administrator nor his sureties owed any duty to the
heirs thereafter to look after such property or protect their
interests in it.

iebert v. Eebert 6 -Levey, 22 la. Ann. 308.

Again, there is no pretence that in the sale made by complainants to Mrs. Hall there was any fraud, mistake, or deception. It is not even suggested that there was any wrong in
respect to it. How then can they ask to have it set aside?
They allege a failure on her part to pay all the consideration.
But such failure is no ground for rescission, and they, having
parted with the notes received as part payment, cannot
return them. Further, 'hile it is alleged that in the fore-

OCTOBER, TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

closure sale there was collusion" between Buckner the surety,
and Hall the administrator, yet the testimony wholly fails
to substantiate the claim. The specific charge is, that when
the property was offered for sale, a bid from a reliable party
was made of thirty thousand dollars, a sum which would have
paid off the mortgage debts, and left money enough in the
estate of Mrs. Hall to have paid all the debts of her estate,
including the obligation, assumed by her as part of the consideration for the Mounds plantation, to pay the debts of the
estate of King; that notwithstanding this advantageous bid,
Hall bid thirty-one th6usand dollars without having the means
of making good such bid, and in collusion with Buckner, for
the purpose of preventing a sale; that, failing to make good
his bid; the sale was first pogtponed by order of Buckner's
attorney, and thereafter stayed by an. injunction suit brought
by Montgomery and Delony, the other sureties on the bond,
,and all for the purpose of ,enabling Buckner to finally acquire
title to the plantation at less than its real value. The facts
are, as developed by the testimony, that there was no collusion between Buckner and Hall, and no understanding between
them in reference to the property; that the foreclosure suits
of Aivey & Co. and Buckner were perfectly proper proceedings for the collection of their debts, commenced only after
default in payment of interest and principal, and prosecuted
in the ordinary way, without undue haste. At the first sale,
and that was before Buckner had commenced his foreclosure
suit, it is true that the bidding was as alleged; yet Hall's bid
was made on his own responsibility, without suggestion from
Buckner, and upon what proved to be an unjustifiable expectation that be could arrange with Aivey & Co., or some other
parties, for securing the money on the property. When the
sec6nd sale took place, I3uckner was the highest bidder; and
this sale was made after the ordinary advertisement, and
under" no circumstances of oppression or wrong. So far as
respects the delay in the sale, caused by the injunction proceedings, it is enough to say that Buckner had n'othing to do
with that: and, "ofcourse, cannot be held responsible for anything that resulted therefrom. The party who had made the

NORMkN v. BUCK=NER'.
Opinion of the Court.

bid of thirty thousand dollars at the first sale, on further.
examination of the property, and in view of the'change of circumstances, did not care to enter into competition at the second sale; and so the property was sold for only twenty-two
thousand dollars, an amount which was all absorbed in the
mortgage debts. It must also be borne in mind that the foreclosure proceedings were public and judicial; that no party to
those proceedings owed any duty in respect thereto to the
complainants; and if the mortgage-property was worth more
than the mortgage debts, and if they had any interest in having it realize its full value, it was their right and duty to
attend the sale, and either bid themselves the full value or
secure others to make such bid. So, concluding this branch of
the case, it is clear that the complainants, as heirs, by withdrawing this property from the custody of the administrator,
eleased him and his sureties from further responsibility in
respect to it; that the subsequent taking possession of this
property by the administrator, as executor and devisee of Mrs.
Hall, the purchaser from the heirs, did not restore the liability of the sureties on his bond; that any wrong practised by
him in reference to the property thereafter, was a personal
wrong, and one for which his sureties were not responsible;
that the foreclosure proceedings were fairly conducted; and
that the ill result which followed from Hall's excessive and
unfulfilled bid was not the result of any collusion *or agreeinent between him and the surety Buckner, and therefore was
not an ill result for which Buckner, as purchaser at the last
sale, can be held responsible. In respect to this branch of
the case, therefore, the ruling was properly against the complainants.
Passing to the other, it is nothing but an action at law on
an administrator's bond, to recover the value of property unnecessarily and improperly sold by him, and damages which
resulted from such sale. It is, in no proper sense, a'bill for an
accounting. It distinctly charges thatbthe administrator twice
wrongfully sold the overflow lands; that the complainants
succeeded in having the first sale set asid on the payment of
$1200 to 'the purchasers; that they had no notice of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

second sale, and hence were unable to contest it; and they,
therefore, seek to recover the value of the land thus improperly
and finally sold, and the $1200 which they had to pay on
account of the first sale. But, waiving any question as. to
whether this branch of the case was improperly joined with
that in which a trust was sought to be established in respect
to the Mounds plantation, we are of the opinion that the ruling of the Circuit Court was correct on it also, by itself considered. It is indisputable that Mrs. Hall did not pay, as she
agreed, the debts of the estate of King; and that the foreclosure sale swept away her entire estate. There remained,
therefore, debts due from the estate of King not paid by the
heirs, or the purchaser from them of the Mounds plantation.
Those creditors had a right to demand the sale of the overflow
lands, the remaining property of the estate, for the payment of'
their claims. The fact that these claims were debts of the partnership of King and Hall, and therefore claims against both
their estates; or the additional fact, if it be a fact, that Mrs.
Hall's estate if properly managed could have paid these claims,
and did not pay them through the mismanagement of her executor; inno manner relieved the estate of King from its liability, or prevented the creditors froni having the overflow lands
sold to satisfy them. The mismanagement, if conceded by
Hall as executor of his wife's estate, in no manner affected the
question of the liability of the sureties of Hall, as administrator of the estate of King, for a sale of its property. Whatever personal liability Hall may have incurred by the mismanagement of Mrs. HalPs estate, it is no burden resting upon
these defendants as sureties on Hall's bond as administrator of
King's estate. No liability arises against them, if there were,
in fact, unpaid debts agiinst the estate of King, and the property was sold to pay those debts.
Now, the real contention of complainants is not that,there
were no unpaid debts of the estate of King, on account of
which these lands were sold, but that Mrs. Hall's estate was
also liable for these debts; that Hall, as executor, properly
managing that estate, could and should have paid those debts
out of that estate; and that Montgomery and Delony, two of

WEST v. CAMDEN.Syllabus.

the sureties on the administrator's bond, who held these claims,
were, by reason of their suretyship, under an equitable obligation to enforce their collection out of Mrs. Hall's estate. Butwe- do not understand that any such obligation was imposed
by their suretyship. They did not guarantee Hall's faithful
performance of his duty as executor, or become in any manher
responsible for what he did as executor. They assumed no
obligations in respect to their own claims against the estate of
King, either as to the time or manner of their payment.
They did not thereby bind themselves to pursue every other
joint debtor before asking payment from the King estate. If,
by reason of Hall's mismanagement as executor, nothing Was
left to Mrs. Hall's estate, their claims against the King estate,'
as one of two joint debtors, were in no manner impaired;
and the sale of the overflow lands belonging to the King
estate, in satisfaction of their claims, was neither illegal nor
improper; and that, in its worst aspect, is all that the testimony develops in respect to this branch of the case.
It should also be noticed that Hall's action in respect to
these sales was, in fact, compelled by the complainants themselves. They proceeded against him for contempt in not
closing up the estate, and it was only in response to such proceedings that he filed his petitions and' made the sales with a
view of paying the as yet unpaid debts of the King estate.
Further comment is unnecessary. The decree of the Circuit
Court is corrdct, and it is
Affirmed.

WEST

.

AM[DEN.

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF IA.RYLAND.
No. 278.

Argued April 17, 18, 1890.- Decided May 19, 1890.

An agreement by a director of a corporation to keep another person permanently In place as an officer of the corporation, is void as against publie policy, even though there was not to be any direct private gain to the
promisor.

